W

OF THE
U N IVLRS City
Of ILLINOIS

M288p

V.I

«it^i«it/i»ii

DAY

"Pa



> hand in
materials ma

Co's S

ants of fasti
es. TEE

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

Junta 198! I

1 bring a TI
its can be
Deer than is

ST.

le Governors n
1 to meet the
hbourhood.
:. Mary's is th
ives over Twe>
*Neal Subscr
hospital Income

L161— O-1096



1 T- ., -,, ,-donations and Subscriptions will be thankfully
.vet by the Bankers, Sir Samuel Scott, Bart, & Co, ], Cavendish
ere, or by the Secretary, at the Hospital. PIETRO Mitchell, Secretary

rH. ^2/ >\

I ■^T» . *T * y

s^

NORTON & SON,

Stiitti,

#>

5, CONDUIT STREET,

REGENT STREET, W

I

his

Ladies' Costumes, Ulsters, &c.

Estimates for repairs, on town
or country examinations, furnished
free.

rt
O

^

-juoA-Bj no 9s^i[0jn(i jo aoii^do
9i[:^ ili paqqof oS'bui'bo Kuy

)-H

o

O

Hi

M
O

c

C/2

]30Go. rotherham Veterinary

Surgeon and Canine Pathologist by Special Appointment
to H.i\I. the Queen and Royal Family, may be consulted
from 2.0 until 5.30 daily (Saturdays and Sundays excepted
; upon those days by appointment). Fee, 2s. 6d.,
or, by letter, 3s. 6d.

The ROYAL CANINE SURGERY,

55, SOUTH MOLTON STREET, BOND STREET, W.
The Hospital, most healthily situated near ,
has well appointed and spacious Kennels for
large dogs, and every home comfort for pet dogs. The
exercising ground covers fifty acres of grass land.

J. ANDREWS,

BUiLDER AND DECORATOR,
amount STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

Speciality-SANATORY WORKS, AS CARRIED OUT
UNDER THE LEADING PROFESSORS OF HYGIENE.

Established 1824.

CHRISTOPHER S EWE LL,(Late shepherd)
4, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, ¥.

Practical Goldsmith and Jeweller.

Mourning AND Bridal GIFTS TO ORDER.

Watches, Clocks, Musical Boxes, Cleaned, Repaired, and adjusted by Experienced

Workmen, under personal supervision.

CLOCKS WOUND BY CONTRACT.

Old Gold, Silver, aud Precious Stones Exchanged or Purchased to any amount.

THE PRINCE'S PORT,

50 YEARS IN WOOD.

PALE COLOR. SOFT. DELICATE.

Eminent authorities recommend this Port well
matured in Wood, not only for general consumptions
hut especially for the me of those suffering from gout.

In Portugal, there gout is unknown, this style of
Port is alias used.

BERRY BROS. & Co.

3, ST. Cr^IMIElS^S Street,
LONDON, S.W.

ESTABLISHED 200 YEARS.

A detailed price-list of Wines, Spirits, and Liqueurs on application

[mmmAwmmm^mmmAm^vMVi^MmM

TIME - SAYING PUBLICATIONS.

tn



u

i

a

•e-^

u

Account Books
Bills Paid Books
Cellar Books

Daily Consumption Books

Dairy Account Books
Engagement Books

Game Books

Horse Registers
Household Account Books

,, Inventory Books

Washing Books
Larder Books
Linen Books
Menu Books
Poultry Account Books
Stable Expenses Books
Visiting Books

>> •>

Wages Books (Servant's)

Wine Bin Books

from

15 o

I



6 6


I

I














J. DAY & SON,

PUBLISHERS & BOOKSELLERS,
16, MOUNT STREET, W.

LADIES' & GENTLEMEN'S

HUNTING, SHOOTING, & WALKING
BOOT MAKER,

52, SOUTH MOLTON ST., BOND ST., W.

Manufacturer of the Celebrated Edinburgh Boot Varnish BlacJcincj,
and Waterproof Leather Dressing.

MILITARY BOOTS.

Boots and Shoes to match Costumes.

Russia Leather Boots.

Waterproof Patent
Hunting Boots.

Improved Flexure Boots.

Mountain Boots.

Skating Boots.

Brown Hide Boots for
Polo or the Colonies.

Racing Boots.

Lawn Tennis Shoes.

Slippers to any style.

LADIES' RIDING ASD HUNTING BOOTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.

Ikr. Shape of the Feet taken and Lasts Modelled on the most aj^provcd
anatomical 2)r in cipher, and kept exclusively for each customer.

W. Faulkner begs most respectfully to call the attention of Ladies and Gentlemen
to the BOOT '.UREE Branch. Boot Trees assist to keep the boots in proper
shape, preventing them from wrinkling and shrinking after they have been worn
in the wet; they can be cleaned better, and do not require so much blacking,
thereby preventing the deleterious effect produced by its frequent application.

Lasts & Boot Trees of every description Manufactured on the
Premises, at Most Reasonable Prices for Cash.

Ladies residing in the Country can have Boots or Boot Trees sent their exact
size by forwarding an Old Boot by Post.

173, NEW BOND STREET, W.,

ICES for BALLS, DINNER and GARDEN PARTIES,

IN NOVEL FRENCH STYLES,
PACKED TO TRAVEL 30 MILES.

CHOCOLATE & COF FE E IN Pere CT CONDITION.
DESSERTS AND FRENCH NOVELTIES

IN CONSTANT VARIETY.

W. p. LILLIORAPP & Co,

BY SPECIAL ^)I^M^/^|"a:|W^^ APPOINTMENT

TO H.R.H. THE M''y'%^^^0^^^^P PRINCE OF WALES.

SEAL SKIN JACKET,

inx Cloak, fct. & Coat ^anwfadwrm,

AND

GENERAL FURRJfERS,
27, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE.

SKINS DRESSED AND MOUNTED.

Fibs Exchanged AJfD Take CARE OF.

HEAVENS,

HUNTING. RACING, AND STEEPLECHASE

Satrbkr imtr Harness li^alur,

28, SOUTH MOLTON ST., OXFORD ST.

RACING CAP AND JACKET MAKER. EXPORT SADDLER.

WITH SELF-FITTING ENDS

are made in sizes, 4, 6, 8, or 12 to lb., packed in 12 lb. wood cases, or in 3 lb. boxes,

PRICE 9d. PER LB.

MARCHANT & SON,

Wax Chandlers and Oil Merchants,
59, Burners STREET, LONDON, W,

And at 160, NORTH STREET, BRiaHTOU.

Paul's Fish Culture, i^ 177, Euston Rd, N.W.

Trade Catalogue of the %£,^B^ World's Fishes, Reptiles,
Amphibious, Press j^^^wi^p Opinions, etc., Stamp.

lOO GREEN TREE FROGS 40 « or l/« EACH.
lOO GOLD FISH 30/- or 6d. EACH.

Patent Fish Kettle, extra Plants, Snails, Shingle Free, sent to any
part of the Kingdom. loo Carp, Tench, Dace, Roach, &c., &c., 15/-.

PAUL'S AQUARIA MANAGEMENT,

Without changing the water. Description of Fish, Plants, Snails, &c.,

impost free.

PAUL'S FISH LIFE PRESERVER.

Prepared Fish Food ; invigorates the Fish, makes them grow, keeps
them healthy, full of lire and go. Packets, impost paid,

6d. PAUL'S FISH CULTURE. 6d.

A Monthly Illustrated Journal, published to raise the neglected state
of Fish Culture to its earlier. Standard, to re-populate the rivers, ponds,
lakes, &;c. Every farmer, land or water owner, should study aqua-culture.
This journal gives valuable information how ;^*400 PER YEAR
may be made out of one acre of Water.

GEO. Davies & SON,

Ipnittual ^Ijirt imij pillar Utakrs,

HOSIERS AND Outriders,
29, NORTH AUDLEY ST., GROSVENOR SQ., W.

Factory AT Shepherd's BUSH, ¥.

CARNABYN,

OR NOURISHING MEAT & MALT WINE.

Highly recommenced by the MEDICAL Faculty as an exceedingly
nourishing, digestive and Restorative compound.

DOSE— From Half to a Wineglassful 3 times a day.

Prepared HOOPER & COMY-.

55. Grosvenor STREET, W. ^, LABORATORY,

And at 7, PALL MALL EAST, London". J MITCHAM, SURREY.

In BOTTLES 2/6, 5/- & 7/6.

To 5(S obtained of all Chemists, Wine Merchants and Grocers throughout the

United Kingdom.

J. DAY & SON'S

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER

SUITABLE FOR WRITING WITH QUILL OR STEEL PENS.
SAMPLES POST FREE.

JOHN DAY & SON,

16, 3^1 O TJ jSr T STKyEEO?,
LONDON. W.

BURKE'S LANDED GENTRY

A Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Landed

Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland,

v>\

Sir Bernard Burke, Cab., LL!D.,

Uldcr King-of-Arms.

Being a record of the Lineage, &.c., of about 4,500 Families, with a description of
their Arms, Crests, &c. Thoroughly Revised throughout. This edition of the
Landed Gentry has been compiled from communications made by the chiefs and
heads of Families from their private papers, traditions and genealogies. The great
aim has been to arrive at accuracy, and in order to attain this end, every available
source of information has been exhausted, and a correspondence carried on which
has secured many thousands of communications from those most competent to
improve and correct the work. Apocryphal statements, which had crept into
former editions, have been expunged, erroneous particulars and incorrect descents
discovered and omitted, and some memoirs excluded as being no longer associated
with the possession of landed property.

Two Vols., Super Royal Svo. Cloth gilt, price £^ 3s.

Burke's Peerage, Baronetage, Knightage, &c.

FOR 1887,

07te Vol., Super Royal Svo. Cloth gilt, price £1 ipsa

LARGE Discount FOR CASH OFF THE ABOVE WORKS.

SOLD BY

JOHN DAY & SON,

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,

Samples may be had post free on application.
16, MOUNT STREET, W,

CAUTION TO LADIES.

Crystal Palace Bond's G-old Medal
Marking' Ink.

Prepared by the Daughter, is the genuine, ask for and see you get it. In Her

Majesty's High Court of Justice another action, costs and damages against the

wrong-doers, for selling colourable imitations. Greatest Marking Ink Maker of

the World, larger sale than all others combined, 21) gold, other medals, and Royal

appointments to Crystal Palace Bond's.

CAUTION— We have no relations soliciting Orders.

CAUTION— John BOND'S EBONITE MARKING INK must not be heated
in the cloth. Especially adapted to Crystal Palace John Bond's india
rubber stamps, metal-bodied type, &;c. Cheapest house in Europe. Trade only.
Works, 75, Southgate-road, London, N.

JOHN DAY & SON, Agents,

16, MOUNT STREET, GROSVENOR SQUARE, W.

DE LA RUE'S
DIARIES FOR 1887

SOLD BY

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W.

Pettish's & BLACKWOOD'S

DIARIES FOR 1887.

SOLD BY

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W.

New and Second-hand

BILLIARD ^^^^^^^ BAGATELLE
and Jj^J^^^ TABLES,

In all Sizes and at all Prices.
CLOTHS, CHALKS, CUES, TIPS,

And all other Billiard Requisites.
WHOLESALE, RETAIL, ^^ FOR EXPORTATION,

OLD BALLS ADJUSTED OR EXCHANGED,

AND

TABLES RE-cushioned and RE-COVERED,

Adjusted, Removed, Bought, Sold, or Warehoused,

And every kind of Billiard Work executed with dispatch & at moderate charges.

Price Lists, Cloth and Cushion Rubber Smiles, Post Free.

When writing for Samples of the latter, please state for what kind of Table

they are wanted.

HX HENNIG BROS.,

Q> BILLIARD TABLE MAKERS.

® ^ H, HIGH ST., LONDON, W.C.

(Opposite St. Giles's Church.)
ESTABLISHED 1862.

Mr. JOHN D. WOOD,

Agent for
West-end HOUSES,

COUNTRY HOUSES,

SUMMER and RIVERSIDE HOUSES,
SHOOTINGS and FISHINGS,
HUNTING BOXES,

YACHTING HOUSES.
Offices— 19, MOUNT ST., LONDON, W.

fa,m.e.—"Q'/een.

GAKIBRIC
POCKET HANDKERCHIEFS

IRISH
Damasks
TABLE
LINEN.

Fish Napkins, 2/11 per
doz. Dinner Napkins,
5/6 per dozen. Table
Cloths, 2 yds. square,
2/11 ; 2.1 yds. by 3 yds.
5/11 each. Kitchen
Table Cloths, 11^ d.
each. Strong Huckaback
Towels, 4/6 per
doz. Monograms,
Crests, Coats of Arms,
Initials, &c Woven and
Embroidered. Samples
and Illustrated price
lists post free to any
part of the World.

ROBINSON & CLEAVER, by Special Appointments to Hem. the
Queen and Hei. k Eh. the Crown Princess of Germany, BEIiFAST.

TO H: O XJ S E "VsTI "VE s.

22 Pages (Illustrated) post free. See Pages 6 to lo for

HOW TO MAKE BLANC MANGE,

Baked Custard, Farola Cream. Faroia Cake, Grantly Porridge, Grantly
Puddings, iVlilk Porridge, Children's or Family Pudding. Baked Pudding,
Steamed Pudding, French Pudding, Italian Polenta, Semolina Soup,
Pastry, Scones and Sweet Cakes, and Semolina Cake, with economy and
taste together with the opinions of the i>r/V/iV; Medical Journal, Lancet, Sic,
&c. Post Free from Messrs. J. &.T. Marshall, Glasgow, and 15, New Broad
Street, London. Neb. — Everyone is much pleased with this little work.
Send your address (naming this publication) by post card or letter, and
it will be sent you free of charge.

Send your Name and Address, and mention Day's Advertiser, and receive, peri
return, post free, sample and particulars of

SMITH'S-cold HESTER

I^li'VES-l-Oi^G- c ^a^ !«■ x> "sir,

THE BEST DIGESTIVE.

No household should be without this valuable and Palatable Stimulant, so
highly spoken of by the great Duke of Wellington. A small piece taken after a
meal is an effectual Preventative against Indigestion, heaviness or burning on
the Chest, and fulness after meals ; or taken at bed-time, by its warmth-giving and
Stomachic properties, Promotes Sleep. A small piece dissolved in the mouth
when exposed to damp and cold Warms the Chest, and prevents those injuries
which arise from Chills. It is invaluable to Si'OHTSMEN, and is recommended by
the Duchess of Beaufort, the Marquis of Waterford, &c., &c., &c. Price i/i^-, 2/9,
and 4/6 ; of all Chemists. Be careful to buy only S!\hth\s-Cqlchestek Live-Long
Candy, prepared by Whetstone (Late Smith and Whetstone),
CHEMIST, Colchester, as, in consequence of its popularity, and the
commonness of the name (Smith), imitations are rife. Per Post, 1/4, sand 5/- ;
or, sample, free .

H Grovel

BY

LADY MARGARET Majestie,

AUTHOR OF
FASCINATION,' ' Sisters-in-law,' ' THE TURN OF THE TIDE,' ETC.

ly THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers in (£)vl)in;it-ij to ^)ef Jtitjcstu \\u dQuan.
1887.

\ All Rights Reserved.]

Coi

:^

Precautions

CHAPTER I.

OU are quite sure that no telegram
has come for me X

Quite sure, my kxdy.'
The servant left the room, and Lady
^ Bellingham returned to her writings-table.

^•K It was a very hot day in the height of
^-summer, but with lowered awnings and

^* naif closed shutters the pleasant drawings
room at Castleford was cool and fresh.
\ Lady Bellingham tried to write a note,

^ but her hand, usually so firm and steady,
VOL. I. 1

was not under her complete control. It
was only a note of invitation to dinner that
she wished to write, but the bold, rather
masculine handwriting straggled quite across
the page, and with an exclamation of impatience
she tore the paper in two and began
again.

She was a tall handsome woman of large
proportions. Though past middle-age her
thick hair was untouched by gray, her complexion
was fine and delicate. People who
are not overburdened with sympathy do
not age so quickly as those who waste their
feelings on others' joys and woes. Lady
Bellingham was absorbed in one sole object,
the fulfilment of one overmastering ambition,
and her own strong self-confidence
had preserved her from the wear and tear of
anxieties and misgivings to which most
human natures are subject.

She looked young and so strong that one

hclioldino; ]her for the first time looked again
and attain, unable to determine whether the
expression on the handsome face was only
strong or was also cruel. At all events, it
was most uncompromising. She seldom
smiled, except when something occurred to
show that she was in the right, and then
the smile had a touch of triumph in it,
which roused an involuntary spirit of opposition
in the beholder.

This was a moment of weakness with
Lady Bellingham. Not for the whole world
would she have allowed her son Eustace or
her daughters to perceive that her hand
was less steady than usual, or that she had
given way to the weakness of ringing the
bell to ask whether the telegram she expected
had arrived, although she knew that
if it had come it would have been brought
to her at once.

sham came in.

1—2

Alice Bellingham came in.

Mamma, shall you come to the Rectory :'

Why — what for^?'|

Have you forgotten the school-feast ?
Uncle Charles has just sent down a note to
ask me to go at once. Gwendoline is very
well to-day, and means to be out of doors
herself. Shall you come, mamma ?'

I will come in the afternoon, just to
please your uncle. But Gerty — what
arrangements have you made for her ?'

Eustace will meet her at the station witJi
the Shetlands. She is sure to come by the
two thirty.'

Will she want to go to the school-feast
'?'

Can you doubt it, mother ? especially as
it ends in a cricket-match.'

Very well. Eustace can bring her hereto
luncheon, and on to the Rectory afterwards.
It is most inconvenient, but L
suppose I must go.'

I am sorry, mamma.'

'These sort of throes are a orreat infliction.'


But they are necessary evils said Alice,
laughing. ' I must go now, and replun ge
into the sea of sugar-plums in which I have
been working all the morning.'

Why can't the elder schoolgirls do it ?'

Why, because they would eat more than
we should, though Georgie and Mr. Milroy
have eaten a good many.'

'Those horrors V

Yes, those sticky horrors ! though
neither of them go so far as Gerty, who
always eats the black-jacks, the worst form
of peppermint extant.'

I hardly think that you ought to inflict t
these things on a stranger like Mr.
Milroy.'

Oh, it is a new life to him ; he has never
seen anything but wholesale school-feasts,

inflicted on his village by contract. I do
not suppose that he ever helped in one in
his life, and he thinks it the best possible
fun

Is he going to phil in the cricket-match
V

No, he draws the line there ; he says he
cannot play cricket, and I should think it
was true. Eustace plays, of course.'

Eustace looks ill,' said Lady Bellingham
suddenly.

A quick shade passed over Alice's
sunny face, quenching all its brightness,
and she sighed.

Gerty will cheer him up, mamma,' she
said. ' Gerty always brings a rush of fresh
air into our jaded lives.'

Jaded ! what nonsense 1'

Good-bye, mamma. I will order luncheon
for her, and send Eustace in good time with
Kelpie and Pixie to the station. I hope

they won't run away, as they did the last
time that Gerty drove them.'

Alice rejoined her sister in the room that
always went by the name of the schoolroom
at Castleford, though schoolroom life was a
thing of the past. The table had been
pushed aside, a sheet was spread on the floor,
and on the sheet sat Georgie Bellingham ina
huge cook's apron, making little pink
and yellow packets of almonds, raisins and
figs. The visitor also sat on the floor,
though he did not accomplish this feat with
perfect ease ; it requires habit to sit comfortably
on the floor. He was a small man,
neatly but rather stiffly made, with sandy
hair and large blue eyes which he screwed
up in a short-sighted way, and assisted
with a large gold eyeglass of aggressive
size.

Oh, this is not agreeable !' exclaimed
Alice. ^ I don't mind bonbons, but I object

to manipulating figs altogether ! Is it
necessary T

Is anything necessary in this world V
answered Georgie. ' Everything must or
must not be done ; either we must do it or
somebody else must — two alternatives are
presented for our acceptance. I don't think
our determination either way would turn
the world whirling the other way on its
axis.'

A propos did you see Jock running after
his tail in the dining-room this morning V
said Alice. ' He ran after it to the right
till he was giddy, and then whirled round
to the left to giddy himself.'

That solemn Dandy Diamond I I cannot
imagine his lowering himself to such
frivolity.'

Oh, Jock is a humbug ! He wishes to
be thought sanctimonious, but he can't
always keep it up.'

I never saw such a houseful of dogs,'
said Mr. Mulroy. ' How many are there V

Let me see. Mamma has a pug, and
Alice has a fox-terrier, and I have another,
and Eustace has two or three of different
sorts, and Gerty sent one down here that
could not be persuaded to live in London.'

1 beg your pardon, but Gerty is '

'My eldest sister, Mrs. Austen. You
will make her acquaintance to-day. She
is coming down for a few days from
London.'

Now, Alice !' exclaimed Georgie. ' Are
you going to make yourself useful or not T

No, dear. I am going off to the
Rectory now to see that Gwendoline does
not overture herself. You know my cousin
Gwendoline, don't you, Mr. Mulroy V

'Miss St. Aubyn? Yes; I had the
pleasure of meeting her last time I was
here. I hope she is better.'

She is as well as she ever can be, but
always on the sofa,' answered Alice rather
sadly. ' She is a wonderful woman — so
brave, so patient. When shall sou come,
Georgie 1'

I shall come immediately after luncheon.
J shall make use of the T-cart on its way
to the station, and carry all my bags and
parcels and mamma's enormous trays full
of good little j^rize-books with me.'

May I hope that you will let me accompany
you, Miss Bellingham ?' said Mr.
Mulroy eagerly.

Yes, if you do not mind having trays
and sugar-plums piled all over you.'

Not in the least. I like it

Then you won't wait to see Gerty ?'

No ; don't you know Gerty well enough

to know that she will barely swallow a

mouthful of chicken before she is off to

the Vicarage ? Besides, she will be just

as curious as wc are to see the new-comers


Ah ! the new-comers ! I forgot. Of
course we shall make their acquaintance.
Uncle Charles is devoted to them.'

Alice went on her way.

It was a wonderfully brilliant afternoon
the sort of day made for a school feast —
hot and sunny, the trees almost bowed
down by the full luxuriance of their midsummer
foliage. The park was one sheet
of glowing gold from the carpet of buttercups
that covered it.

The Eectory was a large red-brick house
about a mile from Castleford. It stood in
an old-fashioned garden renowned for the
abundance of its flowers and fruit. The
garden was not walled in on the side of
Castleford Park, but was only bounded by
a ha-ha, and over this ha-ha a temporary
bridge had been made, so that all who

shared in the fun of school-feast and cricket -
match in the park might cross over it at
any moment into the garden to speak to
the Rector's invalid daughter, who lay on a
sofa under a light crimson-striped awning,
from whence she could see everything and
give her directions.

As usual, a queen lying there in Eastern
magnificence to receive the homage of her
subjects!' exclaimed Alice, kneeling down
to kiss her cousin's sweet face. * My dearest
Gwendoline, what a shawl !'

Yes ; is it not beautiful ? Would you
believe it, it was given to me by the
Begum's daughter, our new neighbour.'

But it is splendid, it is regal!'

How could one refuse % She kept on
asking me, almost with tears in her eyes,
only to be so very very kind as not to mind
accepting it.'

And what did the Begum say ?'

She said it was a tolerably good one, but
one must take precautions in dealing with
such things ; they were not always as good
as they looked, and even Indian workmen
dabbled in Brummagem materials and dyes
nowadays. I want you to be kind to the
little Clifford girl. I believe that there is a
good deal in her.'

Do you really ?' said Alice incredulously.
To me it seems the prettiest little inanity.'

Ah, you don't know how the sweet shy
brightness comes suddenly into her expression,
like a ripple on a commonplace little
pond, and now and then through the prin
ness comes a flash of real originality.'

One lives and learns. I am open to
conviction. Here comes Uncle Charles.'

Is it true that Gerty is coming V exclaimed
Mr. St. Aubyn, coming up with
both hands out. ' Hurrah ! that is good
news. Of course she will come here at once '?'

There is such a thing; as luncheon.'

Well, at all events, immediately after.
And your mother ?'

Coming in time for the prize giving.
Now, Uncle Charles, I came to be useful.
Have you anything for me to do at once ?'

I think we are pretty well advanced.
Kitty Brown Clifford is decorating the
tables with flowers. I never saw anything
so charming as her flower-decorations ; the
flowers seem to group themselves under her
touch.'

AVhat a blessing !' exclaimed Alice ; ' for
if there is any occupation in the world I
dislike, it is arranging flowers.'

A really bad trait in your character, my
dear,' said Gwendoline, laughing, * so that
we had better hush it up. Does Gerty stay
long V

Only a few days this time ; she does not
like to disturb little Muriel's lessons, and

she cannot stay very long away from
her.'

How Gerty and Tom do idolize that
child !'

I don't wonder at it, it is such a darling !
the most lively clever little person, and as
pretty as a fairy.'

How old is she now X

Ten, I think.'

Is Tom listen here also V

No, the gallant Colonel can't get away.
I must say that it is not often that his
duties are so onerous as to prevent his
doing what he likes.'

By-t he-bye, Alice, this Mr. Mulroy, who
is always following in Georgie's wake, who
and what is he ? Whence does he come and
whither does he go V

'He is himself — passing rich, though not,
I grant it, passing fair. "What is he %
Rentier. Whence comes he ? From moon-iii

in Italy, philosophizing in Germany,
chancing in Paris, and woefully standing in
the doorways of ballrooms in London.
Whither ores he ? Ah ! who knows where
we shall all end !'

Georgie likes him V

My dear, he or she who can fathom
<jreorgie is wiser than you are or I am. I
never know what she is going to do next.
She wants to be rich, and she does not
believe in love or any such nonsense. She
is a sensible woman.'

Which neither you are nor I am, Alice.'

Here comes another sensible woman,'
said Alice, as across the bridge over the
ha-ha into the garden came the quiet little
figure of Miss Brown Clifford, the new
arrival who had occupied all their thoughts
so much.

I doubt that,' said Gwendoline so
quickly that they both laughed, and had

not recovered their gravity when she
reached them.

Come here, Kitty !' exclaimed Gwendolen.
* I am so glad you have come now.
I wanted to make you acquainted with my
cousin, Miss Bellingham ; it is a good
opportunity.'

Alice held out her hand cordially ; she felt
drawn to her new acquaintance, who raised
her pretty, steady blue eyes to her face wdtli
a kind of awe which half amused, half
puzzled her.

'Have you finished the flowers?' said
Alice. * My uncle said you were doing them
so beautifully.'

'I have done; they are very nice,' said
Kitty.

Are you very fond of flowers ?'

Oh yes.'

Do you like school-feasts 1'

Very much.'

VOL. I, 2

It was uphill work. Gwendoline would,
not help ; she looked on rather mischievously.

Do you like Castleford V

Oh yes,' and the blue eyes lighted up a
little more, ' so much !'

'You like the idea of making it your
home '?'

*I shall, if mamma does

^ Your house is a very pretty one, and I
should imagine that it was comfortable

It smokes

Oh, that is rather dreadful

We, shall get it right some day, I have
no doubt, but it takes time

'Yes,' answered Alice. not an idea
in her head,' she said to herself, as her
uncle's loud voice summoned them all to
luncheon, with an admonition that they were
wasting time.

T \Yasaveiy little private .station,
one of those convenient comfortable
little stations where there is
a sense of freedom and relaxation of stern
officialism, where there is that friendly
stopping of trains at the mere request of the
]private individual which swells his breast
with an agreeable sense of power and consequence.


At such a station as this, the train has a
size and importance of its own ; it seems to
fill the horizon, it protracts its shriek, it
gives itself airs.

2—2

Mrs. Austen's pretty, eager face was far
out of the window, looking for her brother
on the platform.

Eustace !' she cried, unfastening the door
long before the train stopped. ' In flannels !
cricket X

Yes, cricket,' he answered, helping her
to get out. ' How many boxes, Gerty ?'

Oh, nothing to signify — Tom is not
coming; — the guard knows. Is it a match ?
Are you playing ? whom are you playing ?'

Castleford. against Hazledon. How
many boxes, my dear ?'

Four — oh, and a bag and my dressing-case
and the umbrellas. Louise knows.
Adhere is the match ?'

Mt the Eectory.'^

Shall we go there at once ?'

Luncheon ? my mother thought you
would go home first.'

Is mamma at the Eectory V

Yes, or will be soon. Everyone is there :
it is the school-feast.'

School-feast ! oh, how delightful ! I have
not seen a nice noisy country school-feast for
years and years and years. I can't go
home — such waste of time ! I can get a bun
and an orange with the school-children.
You have brought the Shetlands ? The little
darlings ! Have they learnt better manners
since I last saw them ? My dear Eu, don't
prose about the luggage, or I shall drive off
without you.'

Then you should not go about with
an impossible French female who can't make
one word she says intelligible.'

Trust her ! the original lang-uao^e of
gesticulation she possesses to perfection.
Do let us start! Oh, how indescribably clean
and sweet the country feels after London !'

As if a thorough cockney like you could
appreciate it !'

I ! a thorough cockney ! Was ever
anyone so misunderstood ! Can one have
cricket in London, may I ask ?'

There is a superstition in favour of
Lords

I forgot Lords. AVho is playing for
you 1'

Old Grimes '

Why, he must be seventy. Can he run
at all r

No, of course not. Jack Larch '

Whom I taught when he was in petticoats.
How old is he f

Sixteen — and the Low brothers, and
some new fellows you never saw.'

Anyone who can bowl ?'

Jack can bowl on a bad pitch ; he says
he " can't do nothing on such a flat piece as
the Rector has made — now 't ain't natural." '

And the enemy ?'

We are about equal.' .

There was a pause; presently Eustace
broke it.

"Why this ominous silence V

' Silence ? how could I speak when you
have never stopped talking since we got
into the carriage ?'

What a libel ! — but some people never
know when they are speaking the truth.
Why this silence '?'

Can't you see ? Under the seat Georgie
and Alice, in a moment of mental aberration
have concealed a deal box. I have investigated
the contents, and found '

^AVhatr

Such firs ! Not the fio-s that I have
been brought up to — they were squeezed
flat till little remained but leather outsides.
These are large, and very fat and juicy.'

'May I ask how many you have
devoured ?'

Never mind ; remember I have given

up that chicken awaiting mc at home, with
its attendant bread-sauce; and I have
nothing to which to look forward, but a
bun, if by happy chance there is one in
excess of the lawful number. Who is at
Castleford ?'

Nobody but ourselves and a man named
Milroy

Georgie's admirer "?'
'Yes

What sort of individual is it ?'

'Oh, a nice fellow T

You like him ? Does Alice like him ?
Does mamma like him ?'

Three affirmatives : yes — yes — yes.'

'And' — with a long breath — 'docs
Georgie like him V

'That remains to be proved.'

'I wonder how it will end. Georgie is
like Andrew Lang's young lady. " Mother,"
said she, " I have made up my mind never

to let loose my affections upon any man as
is not pious and in good circumstances." '

Gerty, you are incorrigible I'

Go on telling me everything. Is Uncle
Charles all right, and Gwendo X

The Rector flourishing ; Gwendoline
much as usual. To-day we brought her
out to the tent.'

That is nice. Any local news ?'

*Not that I know of; but I have not
been down long, and I have been ver'
busy.'

What sort of people have taken the
White House ?'

They are a subject of some curiosity,'
answered Eustace, laughing;. ' I have not
seen them ; but Alice and Georgie are to
meet them to-day. Gwendoline has taken
them up strongly.'

What do they consist of ?'
'Females. How many, I don't know.

Three or four, I think. You will soon see
them, and judge for, yourself. The name is
Brown Clifford.'

*Do drive a little faster, Eu — we shall
never <xet there!'

Gerty seized the whip from his hand,
and flicked the tiny Shetlands ; the consequence
of which was that they both put
down their shaggy heads and ran away.

I suppose you can stop them, Eustace V
said Gerty, a little bit alarmed.

^ I dare say ! You have nobody to thank
for it but yourself. Luckily we have a
nice unbroken piece of road before us, a
little uphilL Their long coats will tire
them.'

It is rather fan !' cried Gerty as the
two little things dashed on. ' See, there
is the T-cart in front of us. Alice sent it
back for more gingerbread-nuts.'

Eustace had to set his teeth hard and

pull with all his might to get safely past
the T-cart. The groom who was driving it
jumped up so hastily that a whole basketful
of gin o'er read-nuts made a somersault
in the air, and dashed a shower of its
contents in front of the tiny ponies. They
swerved violently, and the carriage all but
upset ; but its occupants held fast and kept
their seats. The swerve enabled Eustace
to regain command over them, and. a
moment later they safely turned into the
park and dashed on to the cricket-ground,
pulling up with a fire and energy that
caused all the school-children to break into
a piercing hurrah. Fortunately a groom
was waiting, and the heated little Highlanders
were restored to equanimity, while
Gerty jumped out of the carriage.

I am sure you are Miss Brown-clifford
she exclaimed to Kitty, who was playing
that peculiarly solemn game of bean-bags

with a dozen large-faced children without
a trace of a smile on any one of their
countenances.

'Yes, I am.'

I thought so. I am so glad to know you.
Now, children, I want to get to the ha-ha !
Who will race me ?'

I !' * And I !' ' And I !'

It was a splendid race, but Gerty arrived
far before the others, except Kitty Brown-clifford,
who kept back a little, in courtesy,
before they reached their destination.

Did you bring a particular box of very
stout figs, Gerty T Alice called to her.
There is one for each child iu the second
class — a kind of extra prize.'

'We will hush up the subject ! How are
3'ou, you dearest Gwen '?' exclaimed Gerty.
I know nothing whatever about your
second class, Alice — a fig for them ! I have
brought Eustace, Gwen, looking a perfect

beauty in flannels, as he always does. He has
not touched a bat this year, he says, so he
will be out first ball

Do you understand cricket, Miss
Clifford ?'

No ! not at all.'

We must teach you. I am a very good
bat myself, and not a bad field, but I never
could bowl.'

I never knew the woman who could,'
said Mr. St. Aubyn, coming up. ' We beat
you there, Gerty.'

Oh, Uncle Charles, how nice to see you
again ! how brown and well you look ! I
also might have bowled, and bowled you
out, if I had had the chance of winning my
spurs in the Eton eleven.'

There is a great deal that is mysterious
in cricket,' said Gwendoline. ' A man has
the reputation of being first-rate, and it
in nowise shakes his reputation if he

does nothing at all in one game after
another.'

Mr. St. Aubyn laughed.

You will see some amusing play this
afternoon, Gerty/ he said. ' Do you mean to
sit it out V

To the very end.'

I wish Tom had been able to come.'

If wishes were horses — but they are not
quadrupeds, more's the pity. Tom likes
school-feasts.'

What an extraordinary taste !' exclaimed
Alice.

Tom likes everything. I never knew
the thing he did not like,' said his wife.

He is the kindest fellow that ever
breathed,' said Mr. St. Aubyn cordially.

Gerty looked at him for one second with
a quick glistening glance, then she was off
again like a little whirlwind, playing with the
children, starting games, arranging races,

sitting on the ground telling stories, and
making herself the life of the whole thing.

Little Kitty moved about in her quiet
soft way, getting up solemn little games
with the infants, soothing the roaring bursts
of distress which followed the extremely
juvenile races, when the discovery was
made that only one received the prize ; the
sense of ill-usage was such that Alice had to
go to the rescue, as Kitty had more to
comfort than one pair of arms could
encircle.

It all went olT very well; the children
were disposed of at last, and then
Gwendoline s sofa was moved to a bif: tree
under which she could lie and see the
cricket-match — all the other members of
the party disposing themselves on the grass
round her.

The play was much better than might
have, been exjoectcd, and the Rectors

stentorian voice rang over the field at
intervals :

Well bowled r 'Well caught !' ' Well
done, Joe Green ! Well caught indeed !'

The cries were exceedingly inspiriting ; all
thought they understood, and clapped
vehemently, until, in a moment of enthusiastic
applause, Gerty made the observation
that they were clapping the enemy,
which made everyone laugh.

Eustace came up presently, swinging his
bat and looking very handsome and animated.
He began to speak to his cousin
Gwendoline.

Who is the queer little individual just
arrived on the ground V he said. ' Four
foot nothing, with the most aggressively
country make-up and gigantic double-soled
boots on her small feet you ever saw.'

Oh yes T exclaimed Gwendoline in an
agony, for Kitty was close beside her. * I —

I — don't know who it is. Eustace, I want
to introduce you to Miss Brown-ClifFord.'

He Lowed hastily, a sudden flush coming
into his fiice. What made Gwendoline look
so disturbed ? Horrible thought ! Did the
individual in question belong to the young
lady before him ?

Here she is !' he exclaimed in a kind of
involuntary way that made Alice hastily
hide her face. Found the trees, walking
with short steps and swinging arms, came
the funny old lady in question.

Aunt Matty/ said Kitty Brown-clifford
quietly.

I — I — beg your pardon,' Eustace began ;
but Mrs. Austen came to the rescue.

Oh, well hit ! well hit !' she cried at
the very top of her voice. ' Eun ! run,
George ! run ! Oh, go on ! don't stop ! Run,
George !'

And George ran for dear life, while the

VOL. I. 3

fielder, a heavy young ploughboy, lost his
footing and rolled helplessly over the ball.

Eun ! run !' shouted the Rector.

George grew perfectly purple, and. when
the fielder had righted himself at last, found
that he had made a good score and was the
hero of the day.

"Well done, George Smith 1' said Gerty.
I must shake that boy by the hand — he is
worth his weight in pure gold. Eu, do you
go in next ?'

No. I shall send in Partridge • and now,
if you please, Mrs. Gerty, do not encourage
the enemy every time.'

Oh, I don't care in the least who wins.
Do you, Miss Clifford ?'

I don't feel as if I quite understood it,'
said Kitty timidly.

Meanwhile Gwendoline had made room
for the new-comer beside her.

Gerty,' she said in her sweet voice —

Alice, let me make you acquainted with
Miss Brown-ClifFord — Kitty's aunt,' she
hidden, just touching the girl's little slender
hand on the back of her sofa. They all
shook hands.

Do you like cricket, Miss Clifford ?'

I delight in it, and understand it
thoroughly,' said the little lady cheerfully.
My education in that respect was not
neglected like my niece's.'

She had great loose gray curls which floated
on the wind and danced on her pink cheeks,
and she had sharp little hack eyes and
pointed teeth, and a short turned-up nose.

Oh, well played !' shouted the Rector.
Well played, Finch !'

Then came a very dull time ; a dull
bowler was on, a slow bat, and the ladies
began to get tired of it, when a movement
came, and some one discovered that Partridge
was out.

3—2

And now, I suppose that you go in,
Bellingham,' said Mr. Mulroy, looking at
Lira with undisguised admiration.

I suppose so,' said Eustace, lazily rising;.
'Now we shall have some fun,' said

Gerty.

Yes. Johnston is a famous bowler.'

Who is he V said Miss Clifford.

He is the doctor's assistant, and a capital
cricketer ; we shall have some fun now.'

Eustace did not quite like to go. The
feeling; that what he had said must have
seemed rude to the gentle girl who was
sitting Ijy his cousin was very disagreeable
to him, and yet he did not know how to
apologize ; he was obliged to leave it.

They all looked after him with the
deepest interest. Gerty began to quote all
the wonderful things he had done, the
scores he had made in famous matches ;
Kitty sat upright, expecting great things ;

Oerty was chancing about on the grass like
an eager child, and Alice's pretty face was
flushed and very anxious.

Something liapjaened. Then Eustace
strolled back across the field.

But what is it ? What has happened ?'
exclaimed Mr. Mulroy, straining his shortsighted
eyes.

Out answered Gerty briefly.

Nobody seemed to mind except Kitty,
who felt it keenly, and who looked at
the discomfited hero as a pitying woman
regards a wounded knight. She could not
help feeling furious with the Rector, who
exclaimed as he came up, * Hard luck on
Castleford, Eu,' and then broke ofi" with a
shout of ' Oh, well hit, Jack !' as a very
small but fat boy began to hurl himself
backwards and forwards over the ground.

Meanwhile Lady Bellingham sat in a
low chair, watching the play with eyes

Avhicli saw nothing. The look of concentrated
anxiety on her handsome dark
face made it seem almost forbidding, and
her hands were clasped tightly to conceal a
nervous movement that would not be controlled,
especially when, putting evident
constraint upon herself, she turned round
from time to time to address one of her
neighbours.

A telegram for you, my lady.'

It was the butler from the Rectory, who
had come out to the cricket-ground carrying
the ominous yellow envelope.

All are involuntarily interested in the
arrival of a telegram, even now when they
have no more significance, in nine cases out
of ten, than ordinary letters.

Mr. St. Aubyn's glance was full of
anxiety, for Lady Bellingham did not receive
it with her ordinary equanimity.
She grew very white, and the colour rushed

back suddenly into her face, and her hands
trembled as she opened it. There was a
pause, it seemed an interminable one ; then
Alice touched her mother, and said in a
low voice :

Mamma, will you come in ?'

Her mother raised herself, shook off the
gentle hand, and cleared her throat, while
she put the telegram into her pocket.

That lad plays very well,' she said, as
shouts again rose on the air of * Well hit,
Jack — well hit !' and a burst of applause at
some feat.

The Rector turned his own attention
and that of the others entirely on to the
game, which had now become most interesting.
He was trying to think of that
and nothing else, when he started suddenly,
for he heard a quick movement, and felt
his sister catch his hand, saying, in a low
hoarse tone :

Charles — Charles, take me into the
house r

She kept up appearances even then ; for
though her lips were quivering, she forced
a sort of smile and nodded to the girls,
saying something not very distinct about
not hurrying themselves, for she was not
yet going home.

What is it % Louisa, I entreat you
tell me !' exclaimed Mr. St. Aubyn in great
anxiety, as he led her indoors ; but she
could not speak then, and he could only
place her in a chair in the dining-room and
hurry away to procure a glass of water.

One or two deep gasps, and then the
difficulty of speech was mastered.

It was a strangely despairing face that
she raised to her brother ; all the lines
deepened, the eyes strained, a gray look
suddenly quenching its youth and its
comeliness.

It is all over, Charles — fraud, swindle
no tiling left.'

The mines V

Of course ; what else would affect me
like this 1 This telegram is from Galloway.
He has been to the very root of the
matter ; he is at San Jose now — and this
is the result.'

Is it worse than you feared V said Mr.
St. Aubyn, in a low awe-struck voice.

Lady Bellingham rose to her feet and
began to pace the room with almost frantic
gestures.

Worse — a thousand times worse ! I
never even dreamt of such failure. And
what is to be done now ? — how am I to tell
Eustace V

It will not be such a shock to him said
her brother sadly. ' He has, as you know,
never had a moment's faith in that speculation.'


Yes ; he was curiously obstinate in his
disbelief in it !' said Lady Bellingham
irritably.

And yet I heard that he had consented
to your last proceedings, which you must
confess were unfortunate,' said Mr. ,
who was very fond of his nephew,
and could not bear hearing him disparaged.

Lady Bellingham was still pacing the
room ; her face was quite haggard.

Charles, Charles !' she exclaimed, ' this
is ruin ! The estate can never get over it.
Calloway holds out no hope whatever.'

There was a shout outside from the
cricket-field, a burst of hurrahs, and the
clapping of hands. The sound came in at
the open window, striking on the Rector's
ear with a strong sense of painful incongruity.
He saw his sister's face, her teeth
were clenched, her hands twisting in the
intolerable irritability of money anxieties.

ewe must see whether nothing; can be

t>

clone,' he said weakly.

There was nothing else to say. This was
not the moment in which to blame the cold
ambition, the obstinate blind persistency
which had ruined the family.

She turned round upon him sharply :

Do !' she exclaimed. ^ What do you
expect ? Is Eustace to leave the Guards
and break stones upon the road ? What
do you expect him to do ?'

To behave like a man !' said Mr. St.
Aubyn, with spirit. * And what is more,
I will answer for his doing so. I hear
his voice outside. Let me go and tell
him.'

Lady Bellingham caught hold of his
hand, while a sudden look almost of fear
blanched her face. ' Do you think he will
blame me ?' she said.

Don't you know your own son better

than that V answered her brother. ' The
gentlest, most generous '

I know — I know I' she said very impatiently.
' It is those very qualities that
are so against his future. But now — now
is the question. You know it was against
his strongly expressed opinion that I persuaded
him. He may blame me ; but I
did it for the best. It would have been
but a moderate fortune ; it might have
been doubled, quadrupled '

'Or lost!' said Mr. St. Aubyn. 'You
23la\ed too high, Louisa; and you staked
the poor boy's happiness as well as his
fortune.'

Lady Bellingham did not seem to heed ;
she was making rapid pencil calculations on
the back of an envelope. '

I shall go and tell Eustace,' said Mr. St.
Aubyn.

He was out of sympathy with his sister,

and could hardly even find room for compassion
in his heart for her. Whatever
her son might do, he blamed her severely
blamed the recklessly ambitions spirit
which had never rested until it had persuaded
her husband to embark all in a
speculation which had ended so disastrously
for all. Yet who on earth could be more
to be pitied ! She whose hopes had been
boundless, and self-confidence intact, now
found all crumbling beneath her, and the
downfall involving the ruin of others as
well as herself.

Lady Bellingham's feelings were well-noli
intolerable. She had such a long-inp;
to hold the reins of Providence in her
own hands, to guide all about her into the
paths of success that she had marked out
for them ; and she could only realize one
goal before her — unable to grasp or tolerate
the possibility that there should be other

aims in life than the one paramount to
herself.

Both her husband and now her son had
had infinite patience with her. Her
husband, a weak amiable man, had fully
believed in her abilities, and submitted
to her dictation. When his opinion was at
variance with hers, and his judgment
hesitated, he took refuge in the belief that
she would surmount all obstacles ; it was
the ascendency of strong purpose over the
love of a quiet life, and he invariably yielded
with a shrug of the shoulders.

Eustace had let his mother have her owen
way ; perceiving at once, when he succeeded
his father, that the whole of his fortune was
at stake, he allowed her to throw the last
die without actual opposition. To throw,
and, as it proved, to lose.

As she paced up and down, or sat beating
her foot on the floor, Lady Bellingham felt

rising; within her the intolerant bitterness
against him, against everyone about her, that
is one of the severe penalties of undisciplined
misfortune.

Mr. St. Aubyn called his nephew off the
cricket-field.

Eustace did not even ask what had
happened ; he was not unprepared.

My poor mother!' he said. ' I suppose
Calloway's account is unvarnished ; he is not
generally sparing in his home-truths.'

She is to be pitied,' said his uncle
briefly. ' Be kind to her, Eu.'

There was no need to remind him of that ;
not one thought of self, of his own ruin, had
yet superseded in his mind the feeling of
deep compassion for his mother.

He went past his uncle straight to the
room where she wins waiting for him.

Mr. St. Aubyn hesitated, then followed ;
he knew his sister better than her ow n son

did. He had more idea of what would pass
between them.

Lady Bellingham was standing by the
window when they came in, looking out
still with that fixed unseeing look.

Mother said Eustace, going up to her
and putting his arm gently round her
'Mother, I am very sorry.'

He started as she turned round and
showed the hao^g;ard lines in her face.

Don't make yourself miserable about it,'
he said. ' It was all for the best.'

Yes, Louisa, we are all convinced of that
said Mr. St. Aubvn, little imagining; the
bitter mortification to her pride that this
form of consolation brought. She, who had
intended to be the benefactress of the family,
the maker of its fortunes, to be consoled by
the comfort given to a child, that she had
done her best, and would not be held
responsible for the harm that had ensued.

If there were a possibility of raising
a few more thousands,' she said feverishly,
even now '

No, no, mother !' exclaimed Eustace
hastily. ' There is nothing for it but to
leave it alone. We have played a bold
game and lost. Well, it is God's will.'

But it should not have been !' she
exclaimed ; * I am convinced that there has
been foul play somewhere. It is insupportable
to see you prepared to sit down
patiently under such losses, and not make
any effort to see what can be done.'

May I see Calloway's telegram V
He took it up without waiting for permission,
read it through, and replacing it
upon the table, said :

I consider it conclusive. There is nothing
for it but to make up our minds to the loss.'

If I had given up so easily, where should
we all have been 1' cried Lady Bellingham.

VOL. I.

And her brother, greatly disgusted with the
raaiiner in which she was treating the son
she had injured so deeply, even yet forbore
from retort.

I do not see that we do much good by
discussing it, mother,' said Eustace at hist.
One cannot get over the fact that it is a
heavy blow

How heavy a blow he had not yet
allowed himself to realize.

Then came a knock at the door, and
Gerty's voice spoke with some hesitation :

Eustace, I am sorry to interrupt, It
the game cannot get on without you ; but
of course, if you cannot come '

There is nothing to keep me !' he
answered hastily, glad of the excuse to
break off so painful an interview. He went
lip to his mother, intending to kiss her, but
her nerves were overwrought, and she made
a little impatient movement ; he desisted,

following his sister, whose face was full of
sympathy and anxiety.

You should be more gentle to him !' exclaimed
]mr. St. Aubyn. * There is not one
man in a thousand who would take it as he
has done.'

Mine is the truest kindness,' said Lady
Bellingham. ' I mean him to be a rich
man even yet.'

It would be better if you directed your
energies into making him a happy one
said her brother sadly.

Trash !' said Lady Bellingham.

4—2

USTACE and Gerty walked quietly
across the Eectory garden together,
then she gently took
his arm.

I won't tease yon, darling she said.
But is it very bad news V
^ All up.'

Gerty sighed deeply. There was no time
tor more. They where within sight of the
tent with its bright flags, of the grand elm-trees
under which the Castleford party were
sitting ; and several of the cricketers,
catching sight of their approach, clustered
round their captain, and took possession of

him. When all was going on well again,
Eustace rejoined them.

My team is all right now he said.

The fellow who is in now will stay there
till midnight ;' and he threw himself full
length upon the grass.

Are you not tired, Gwendo X said Alice.

Don't you think you ought to go in 1'

Gwendoline was becoming very tired, but
she did not like to break up the party. ' I
can wait quite well,' she said.

But Eustace had sprung to his feet, and
exclaimed, ' No, no, Gwendoline ; don't overdo
it ;' and she was content to let him call
her father, and carry her indoors.

I am afraid your small friend must have
thought me very rude,' he said, when lie
had settled her on her usual sofa in the
drawing-room. ' I had no idea that the
gray curls grew on a belonging of hers. I
mio;ht have guessed.'

T don't think she noticed it,' said Gwendoline.


'But one hates to be rude.'

I will make your apologies if you like.
Now, Eustace, talk to me for one moment.
Please don't mind my asking. Are things
turning out as badly as you thought at

first r

A great deal worse,' he answered
moodily. ' It is very difficult to see one's
way at all.'

I was afraid so,' said his cousin, drawing
in her breath.

I have not got to the bottom of it yet,' he
said. ' I shall very probably go out there
myself ; that is to say, if it seems worth
while. It ought to have been a success, but
it has turned out a complete failure. It is
the way of the world.'

And there is no hope ?'

Calloway sees none. I did not believe

Ills oloomv view at first, but I have great
fait/li ill his judgment ; that is why I sent
him out to see for himself. It takes a
good deal to drive all the hope out of one.'

"Well, dear said Gwendoline, ' you will
want all your courage.'

If it were only one's self ' he began,

then stopped suddenly.

Gwendoline understood; she put out her
thin hand and touched him gently.

Poor boy !' she said very kindly.

Then you will make my excuses to the
Begums, both of them — will you ?'

And he rose to go.

Gwendoline looked after him with a sigh.

She was very fond of all her cousins, but
Eustace especially. They had always had a
habit of coming to her with all their griefs
and troubles, pouring them out to her sympathetic
ear, finding in her the tender
interest in all that concerned them that

they had always missed in their worthily
ambitious mother. Imprisoned on her sofa
by an accident to the spine in early childhood,
her invalid life had been one of such
absolute self-abnegation, that those who
loved her best knew little of her sufferings,
and she found all her comfort and happiness
in helping them to bear their own.

Gwendoline was not long alone. Mrs.
Austen came in almost immediately after
her brother went out, and nestled down on a
stool by her sofa.

It is so nice to have a few moments of
you, Gwen darling,' she said. ' I want so
much to ask you what you think of
Eustace.'

Poor fellow, he looks ill, and is evidently
very low. '

How is it all to end ?'

I am afraid his affairs are terribly complicated
— the mines have utterly failed.'

Papa only half believed in them.'

Really r

Yes, really ; it was mamma who was so
excessively anxious about it

I fancied so said Gwendoline thoughtfully.
' What does Tom hear about

itr

He says that there must have been
swindling somewhere. He says Eustace has
done all he can do, and shown great business
capacity ; but there is no hope of things
righting themselves now. Does he talk to
you about it '?'

Not much ; it is not so much the loss
of fortune that is weighing on him so heavily,
as '

I know — I suppose that the engagement
will have to be broken, but it will break
their hearts.'

You think it must come to that ?'

I don't know what he thinks. Mamma

has set her heart upon it, and you know she
always does carry her point.'

Have you seen Marion lately ?'

'I hardly ever see her. My dear Gwen,
you cannot form the smallest idea of what
an odious, selfish, self-absorbed, abominable,
detestable old wretch handsome Ralph
Austen is. To have a father like that would
in itself be an overpowering misfortune.'

Is he really so tiresome ?'

It is that, on principle, he thwarts everything
she wants to do, prevents her having
the smallest enjoyment, and makes an
absolute slave of her ; and her sweetness and
patience are inexhaustible.'

Poor May ! Do you think that she is
unhappy '?'

'No,' said Gerty, with a little hesitation.
'I think that her engagement is such a source
of happiness to her that she never even
feels the dreariness of her life, though

it must be drcaiy to have every word one
.says instantly contradicted.'

Is he really ir

He has bad attacks of gout now and then ;
the doctors say he is a 'malade imaginaire'"

Gwendoline did not speak for a moment.
Then she said :

I. have heard little of the family politics of
late. Your brother-in-law Lord Austen V

Gerty's eyes filled with tears.

It is the same old story,' she said. ' I
think if a man really cared for such a
woman as Marion Austen, he would never
get over it. Austen does not get over it in
one way, but his is one of the greatest
characters I ever came across. I never
wonder at Tom's adoration of him. Oh,
Gwendoline, I can never help blaming
myself for the general muddle !'

My dearGerty !'

Yes, when Austen asked me to have

May with me that year before her mother
plied, Eustace was always in and out of the
house ; and I was so blind, I never saw what

was coming,

Well, it can't be helped,' said Gwendoline,
with a sigh. ' Only do be kind to
him, poor fellow ! '

If one only knew what the truest kindness
would be,' said Gerty. ' There arc
times when I quite agree with mamma that
it would be much better to break it off.'

'And in the same breath you say, that
men who have once cared for May will
never get over it.'

'I believe you are very romantic, Gwendoline.'


Am I ? in this prosaic age I ought to
know better

I hope you never will know better,' said
Gerty, kissing her with tears in her eyes.

•ws ^m

^M

Chapter IV.

HEN all were asleep that night
Lady Bellingham was still
pacing her room. She could
not rest, and her restlessness found expression
in incessant changes. Now she would
put out the candles, throw open the windows,
and allow the moonlight to stream in ; then
she would hastily close shutters and curtains
as if the pure white light were intolerable to
her, and re-light every candle the room
contained.

With both hands she had thrust back the
hair from her temples, and the expression

on her face was that of an almost unbearable
misery.

She was making up her mind to <lo an
action which would probably change the
whole current of her son's life.

I will do it— I will !' she exclaimed to
herself, almost aloud. ' I will not shrink
from my duty from any weak fear of giving
pain. They will thank ]ne for my firmness
some day. I can wait for their
thanks. I am quite determined that I will
do it.*

Lady Bellingham seated herself before her
writing-table, and began to write.

It was not easy ; two or three times she
tore up the commencement that she had
made, and began afresh. At last she
succeeded in finishing it, and leaning back
in her chair with a look of stern inflexibility
on her face, she re-read her own composition
:

'My dearest Marion,

After the conversation we had
together in London, you will not perhaps he
altogether surprised by the contents of this
letter; but I hope I may be able to put what 1
have to say in the least painful manner that
is possible. I think you must know how
fond I am of you, how warmly I should
welcome you as my son's wife, if it were but
consistent with prudence. I should like to
assure you over and over again of my loving
esteem and affection for you, if it would but
soften the edo^c of the blow that I feel I
I must inflict on you. I trust to your good
sense, and the calm judgment of quiet reflection,
to enable you to sec its necessity,
and to pardon my apparent cruelty. Some
day you will recognise in my conduct the
truest kindness, but I am not so unreasonable
as to expect that now.

'I have had my worst fears confirmed —

the San Jose mines have proved worthless.
Had I been a man, and able personally to
inspect them long ago, everything would
have turned out differently. As it is, they
have swallowed up a considerable fortune.
The Castleford estates, already mortgaged,
will have to bear double the amount of
mortgages to meet the liabilities ; the charges
are already heavy. This is an expensive
place to keep up. It is of no use putting
these tidings into soft words — Eustace is a
ruined man.

'If I saw any chance of redeeming his
fortune, I should perhaps say, "Wait, trust in
the future, and hope for the best." But there
is no such probability. The money is sunk —
gone. There is but one chance for Eustace,
on which I will not enlarge ; but that
chance, slender as it is, is in your hands.
Will you still hold him to an engagement
that he can have no hope of fulfilling ?'

Lady Bellingham could hardly have
written those words had she realized the
sting they would give to the proud, sensitive
nature of the girl to whom they were
addressed. That she should for one moment
hold her betrothed to an eno;ao;ement to his
disadvantage ! Lady Bellingham either did
not realize it, or knew only too well what
she was about when she Wrote them. Her
object was to attain her wish, and she
would not let sentimental scruples stand in
the way.

She went on :

I entreat you to look on the matter ina
reasonable light. This engagement is no
real happiness to either of you. I will go
further, and tell you frankly that Eustace
is not happy. He is restless, and takes
little interest in the pursuits which used to
engross him. He longs to be with you ;
but when he returns from London he is in

VOL. I. 5

very low spirits always. He frets over
your life and its trials, and the heartsickness
of hope deferred is hard to bear.
Surely it would be much better to end this
state of things. After all, dear May, is it
so \^yY i^iuch to give up ? — a hopeless
engagement ; for it is hopeless. I think
the gain to both of you (I think of you as
much as of my own son) will be infinite, if
you make up your minds to give each
other up. I appeal to your generosity. If
Eustace were happy, perhaps I should not
have the heart to do it ; but he is wretched,
restless, lonely, and aimless. He will suffer,
of course ; but the suffering once over, he
will be free to begin life afresh, and with
some of the possibilities of life before him.

Believe me, dear Marion, you young
people never take into account how long
life is : two or three years are nothing.
There is the long journey before you

through the heat and shire of middle-age,
iinsoftened by illusions and disenchanted
as to the all-sufficiency of love for human
happiness. From this future I long to save
you both ; and I feel sure that your father
fully agrees with me.

Think it well over, my dear child,
putting aside your own feelings, and viewing
it as calmly and dispassionately as if
you were judging the circumstances of
other people, not your own. I will not
write any more — indeed it is with extreme
pain that I have brought myself to write
this much ; but Eustace's future is more
important to me than any suffering of
my own.

Yours affectionately,

Louisa Bellingham.

Lady Bellingham closed the letter,

sealed it, and still sat holding it in her

hand.

5 — 2

Memories were crowding thickly on her
brain — memories and regrets following; each
other, and deepening into a passionate
misery which she did not recognise as
remorse. She saw before her a vision of
her son and his betrothed ; she saw them
side by side in their youth and strength
and most unusual beauty ; and she saw the
loving glance pass between them which
told how deeply they loved each other,
and what joy there was in that love.

And yet she did not hesitate. True to
her own creed, that love, happiness, faith —
all must be subordinated to worldly success,
she slowly rose, went downstairs, with cold
rigid fingers placed the letter in the box
ready for early post, and returned to her
sleepless bed.

R. AUSTEN— handsome Ralph
Austen, as his old friends called
him — was living with his
daughter in a comfortable - looking house
in Manchester Square. His life had been
one of constant variety ; but having at
last found an anchor in London, it seemed
unlikely that he would ever care to leave
it again.

He was very handsome, with straight
features, and so noble and lofty a brow
that it was incredible to his friends that all
the actions of his life had been so unusually

foolish and wrong-headed — his life gave the
lie to his looks. He had wasted a good
fortune chiefly through an intermittent
love of gambling. For many years he had
wandered about the Continent, from one
cheap German or Italian town to another,
leading an idle ne'er-do-weel life, and
slowly breaking the heart of his patient
unhappy wife.

Worthless individuals of this sort seem
sometimes in this world to have an abnormal
power of attracting love. Both his
wife and daughter adored him, and had
sacrificed every wish, every hope, and every
comfort for his sake. For a long time,
many, many years, Mrs. Austen retained
her perfect faith in him ; her conviction
that all the misfortunes that pressed upon
them were sent by Providence. She would
not, or could not, see that they came from
his own ill-doing ; she believed in him

with a frantic cling-in g; to the faith of her
love until the veil was torn at last from her
eyes.

Marion — stronger, nobler, and with far
more subtle instincts — never believed in
her father at all ; even as quite a young
child this was apparent. She loved him
passionately ; her want of faith in no way
impaired her affection. Bat the consciousness
of that want of faith in her child
almost estranged her mother from her — she
could not bear it. There were times when
she almost hated her daughter ; and this
was one of the most cruel, though indirect,
consequences of Ralph Austen's selfish life.

As time passed on, the passion for
gambling seemed to increase upon him ;
and the two women often found them-elves
in a position of extreme difficulty. Once
even matters seemed to reach a climax, and
it was as if nothing were left to hope for.

They were at Homburg. Long and
piteously Mrs. Austen had opposed their
going there ; but her husband pleaded some
ailment for which these waters were the
only cure — pleaded in such a way that,
withdrawing their opposition, his wife and
daughter could only entreat and implore
him to go and be cured. He was a consummate
actor ; and when he assumed an
attitude of suffering and pain, his wife never
failed to be taken in. Marion was not
deceived, but she blamed herself severely
for what she considered her own want of
heart : and seeing that her doubts made
her mother angry, cold, or bitterly wounded,
she did her utmost to conceal them.

To Homburg they went, and within a
short fortnight found themselves penniless.

The situation was a terrible one. In
those few days Mrs. Austen's beautiful hair
was streaked with gray. Marion left childhood

behind her for ever. Ralph Austen
shoved himself full of expedients, pointing
out the road to pawn shops and such resorts
of painful experience with a readiness which
betrayed former acquaintance.

But one morning when matters where at
their worst, Mr. Austen burst into his
wife's room with a look of rapture on his
face. Among the new arrivals on the
visitors' list was a distant cousin of his
own, Lord Austen, and he triumphantly
exclaimed that here was an end to his
difficulties.

When Marion heard that, she rushed
away upstairs, and remained alone for
hours, pacing up and down with clenched
hands and passionate gestures. It was
terrible to her.

When the evening came, twice her father
sent up messengers to fetch her, and twice
they returned in vain ; at last Mrs. Austen

went upstairs herself, and coldly desired her
to come down.

Lord Austen was there, seated in the
tiny salon, talking to Mr. Austen, to whose
handsome face had returned the habitual
look of ease and self-satisfaction that
always shone there in prosperous times.

Lord Austen was a man about fifty, tall,
large, and with a broad, kindly face ; his
eyes were small, but very blue and sunny,
and gave an attractive expression to a face
without other pretensions to good looks.
He had come to see his cousins with the
conviction that the less he saw of them the
better for himself and his purse.

Mrs. Austen, whom he had remembered a
very beautiful woman, was terribly changed ;
she was painfully thin, and wore an expression
of haggard wistfulness that made her
seem to him the very personification of the
conventional rambler's wife. But his feelings

underwent an immediate and permanent
change when Marion entered the room.

A. strong, haughty determination had
banished all trace of tears and all careworn
expression from her large violet eyes ; she
was very tall, finely made, and her small
head nobly set on her shoulders ; her
features were almost perfectly regular, the
brow broad and low, the eyelids very finely
chiselled, and somewhat drooping over the
eyes. The rich, dark colouring and constantly
varying expression made her a
gloriously beautiful woman.

Lord Austen was so thoroughly astonished
that he could hardly believe his senses ;
his intentions of aiding his cousin in
his uncomfortable predicament had been
kind-hearted — they now became generous.
Nothing that he could do would express his
admiration of his young cousin ; her beauty
enchanted him, and as he became intimate

with the family, the charm and originality
of her ideas completed the fascination.

Marion spoke with a slight foreign accent
; from earliest childhood she had been
more accustomed to German and Italian
(both of which languages she spoke as a
native) than English. She had a mind
of considerable power, and keen observation ;
and Lord Austen soon began to think that
he had never in his life come across so
perfect a woman.

Ralph Austen saw and appreciated his
cousin's growing attachment to his daughter,
and while she was still totally ignorant of
it, he began to calculate upon it.

Lord Austen paid his debts for him, and
lent him money ; the passion for gambling
came upon him with renewed force, and the
money had hardly been paid into his hands
before it was all lost.

Then Mrs. Austen's eyes were opened at

last ; in that bitter hour the truth revealed
itself to her beyond all power of self-deceit.
She suffered cruelly ; and by some odd
strange inconsistency of human nature, her
suffering found vent now in positive dislike
of her daughter. Her jealous passion for her
unworthy husband made her resent frantically
her daughter's insight into his character.
She came to the rescue as she had often
done before ; she humbled her pride, and
stooped to take her husband's burden on
herself, and, in person, appeal to Lord
Austen.

His kindness surmounted the shock, and
he renewed the gift ; but on one condition
a condition for which the unhappy wife
blessed him in her heart, though her pride
suffered cruelly from the humiliation — they
were to leave Homburg at once.

The condition was accepted, and they
obeyed — Lord Austen promising himself

that he would manage some plan for
separating Marion from her parents and removing
her to friends in England, where
he might give himself a chance of winning
her heart.

The Austenss removed to Siena, where
they lived very quietly, and for a short
time happily. The first interruption came
in the shape of an invitation from Mrs.
Austen, Lord Austen's sister-in-law, asking
that Marion might go to London and spend
a season with her.

May was exceedingly anxious to refuse,
but her father insisted on her acceptance,
and she was obliged to go. She was uneasy
about her mother, and clung to her
with affectionate anxiety. When Mrs.
Austen lost her faith in her husband, she
lost all the vitality which had sustained
her through so many unhappy years, and
her health rapidly gave way. Her selfish

husband either did not, or would not, perceive
it; and, only bent upon his own
schemes, refused to listen to Marion's representations.
If Marion had had the
smallest support from her mother, she
would have brought her own strong will
to bear upon the question, and have refused
to leave her ; but to poor Mrs. Austen's
overstrained and morbid mind the departure
of her daughter seemed an actual relief,
an extreme sense of relaxation. She would
no longer be always on the defensive ; the
beautiful severe young face would not be
present. Her husband might be as unkind,
as selfish, as exacting as he liked, there
would be no one to criticise ; and this
negative comfort was almost happiness.

She hastened her daughter s departure ;
and, utterly absorbed as she was in the one
passion of her broken life, Marion's pain,
her yearning for her love and sympathy

were indifferent to her. And now Mrs.
Austen did a thing for which only her
weakened judgment, warped by long suffering
and failing health, could be pleaded as
excuse.

An aunt of her own family died, and
quite unexpectedly left her a large sum of
money, large enough to secure a moderate
regular income to the family and a provision
for Marion's future. The money was
entirely in Mrs. Austen's own power ; and
without consulting either her friends or
daughter, she invested the whole capital
in an annuity for her husband, thus
doubling the interest he would receive.
It was irretrievably done ; but before her
death, agonized misgivings assailed her as
to the justice of her action. In the clear
light which so often gathers round the sunset
of life, she saw distinctly the whole of
her own responsibilities: she saw her child

neglected, unappreciated ; she saw her husband
in his black selfishness, and herself so
absorbed in him as to have become part
and parcel of that very selfishness of
his life. The consciousness produced a
period of agonizing pain. Years after, a
friend of Marion's, to whom she turned in
her own sorrows, said of her mother that
surely she must have been one of those
of whom it would be said that much would
be forgiven unto her, for she had loved
much.

Meanwhile, Marion Austen went to England,
to the house of her cousin, Mrs. Austen,
and in a short time she was plunged into
the midst of an unusually gay London
season. She was much admired ; and when
it was found that, besides being the most
beautiful girl of the season, she sang magnificently,
and that her voice had the fulness
and power of a professional singer, Mrs.

VOL. I. 6

Tom Austen's house became one of the most
popular in London.

There were cavillers as well as admirers of
Marion's beauty ; attractions such as she
possessed were as a gauntlet thrown down
to society. Some people condemned the
dramatic style of her singing, which was
certainly unusual in an amateur ; she had
lived so much abroad that she lead become
more dramatic, not only in her singing butin
her manner, conversation and movements,
than Englishwomen altogether approved.
It suited her noble beauty, it had from its
absolute unconsciousness an extraordinary
charm of its own ; but it laid her open to
criticism and even to unkind sayings from
many who, because a thing is unconventional,
condemn it as hardly decorous.

But Marion was unconscious of criticism ;
during that season she was perfectly and
entirely happy. For the first time in her

young life she was out of the atmosphere of
anxiety and dark cares that weighed so
heavily on her home-circle ; she expanded
in the sunshine of appreciation and affection
which speedily surrounded her, and in the
society of friends of her own age.

Gerty Austen was quite delighted with
her, and their acquaintance ripened into the
warmest friendship.

That summer Marion first met Eustace
Bellingham. At that time his father was
alive ; his heart was light ; he was very
bright, very handsome, and deeply in love
with her.

Mrs. Austen saw the result with the
greatest consternation. She had thrown
herself completely into her brother-in-law's
wishes, and was most anxious for their fulfilment
; but before, with the deliberation of
middle age, he had made uj) his mind to
speak and to claim the hand which, through

6—2

gratitude even, might almost assuredly have
l)cen given him, May's heart had been
irretrievably given away, and he found
himself obliged to western himself to the disappointment.


But for a time that disappointment was
keen beyond all power of resignation, all
the more so that he knew that Marion was
very fond of him. His kindness, and the
delicacy with which it had invariably been
shown, made her gratitude to him full of
the affection of a younger sister ; and the
affection might have ripened into something
more, might have sufficed as a basis for a
very satisfactory amount of conjugal affection,
had not this unfortunate contretemps
arisen.

Lord Austen, an occasional victim to that
implacable enemy gout, was ordered off* to
Homburg. Before his departure he begged
Mrs. Austen to preserve his secret, to be

shire that Marion should know nothing of his
hopes, but be perfectly free to be ha23py in
lier own way.

Just before the close of the season,
Eustace asked her to marry him, and for
one brief week it seemed as if all life were
illumined by a light from heaven.

But it was not to last. A telegram
summoned Marion to her father's side ; her
mother was dying ; there was not an hour to
lose.

Lord Austen, who received the news at
the same time, travelled night and day to
join Marion on her terrible journey, and
take her to Siena. His conduct to her,
during; that time and afterwards, was so
kind, so generous and tender, that Marion
crew more than ever fond of him with a
warm grateful affection.

Although they travelled with all possible
.speed, they arrived just too late. Mrs.

Austen was dead ; and Marion, kneeling by
the dear form, so wasted by sorrow and
suffering, could only weep heart-broken
tears over the mother who had never loved
her, and who represented to her one of the
most painful disappointed affections of this,
sorrowful world.

Alps AUSTEN missed his gentle,
unselfish wife more than he
could have believed possible.
Marion devoted herself to him ; she, in the
first burst of her sorrow, fully made up her
mind that henceforth he must be the first
object of her life, and he appeared to accept
the position as his right. He was profoundly
disgusted when, after some weeks had
elapsed, Marion one day told him of her
engagement ; but he had presence of mind
enough not to betray his feelings at once.
He had a long conversation with Lord

Austen, ostensibly for the purpose of finding
out something; about Eustace Bellingham's
character and future prospects, but really
with the wish to discover what his own
feelings on the subject were.

Lord Austen was a thorough gentleman —
not by word or gesture did he express the
smallest depreciation of his more fortunate
rival ; on the contrary, he spoke of him in
the very highest terms, and Marion was
deeply grateful to him. He did not remain
with them long, but before his departure
he asked Marion what her wishes were with
regard to their future life ; and having ascertained
that she greatly wished to return to
England, he set himself to persuade Mr.
Austen that this was the only tiling to be
done. But his representations were useless,
and he was obliged to leave them at last
with a sore heart, but with the generous
determination in his mind that Marion

should always find in him a most reliable
friend, although Providence had
decreed that he was to be nothing more
near.

Eustace came out to Cannes, whither
the Austenss removed shortly after Mrs.
Austen's death ; and for a short time he
and Marion had the happiness of being
together. A very reluctant consent was
drawn from Mr. Austen that the marriage
should not be delayed beyond the following
spring. This happiness was very far from
being unalloyed, for Mr. Austen never
relaxed his own exacting claims on his
daughter's time ; with courteous apologies
he would interrupt every short half-hour's
conversation — he would accompany every
drive, every walk, and spend all the
evenings with them.

But spoilt as it was, they saw enough of
each other to increase their attachment and

ripen it into the one love of all loves which
only comes once in every human heart.

The end came abruptly — Eustace was
summoned to England by the sudden illness
of his father, and it was long before
they met again.

After his father's death, Eustace found
his affairs greatly involved. So much was
embarked in the fatal speculation of which
he at once foretold the result, that, far from
being rich, he found himself called upon to
face a mass of difficulties that at first sight
seemed almost insurmountable. It was a
shock to him, involving much pain and
deep disappointment.

Mr. Austen inflexibly pointed out that
under the circumstances his marriage could
not take place. He could not spare his
daughter ; and Sir Eustace would certainly
not be able to make a home for him also —
at all events, a home that would suit his

ideas of ease and comfort. And they were
forced to consent to an indefinite delay.

The next two years were very unhappy
ones for Marion. Her father would not return
to England ; he wandered from place
to place — a restless discontent had come
upon him. He lost his taste even for gambling,
and became merely anxious to sit
in crowded Kraals discussing the small
gossip of the day. His health gave way ; he
became peevish and low in spirits, and
more and more exacting.

If Marion had never known any other
existence, she might more readily have
accommodated herself to this mode of life ;
but she had had a glimpse of a wider
world, and though she had gained in
strength and in a nobler experience, she
had probably lost in happiness. Mr.
Austen now ignored her engagement. He
never spoke harshly of it, never brought

matters to a crisis by insisting upon its
being broken off, but he ignored it utterly.

Daring Marion's life in England lie had
made friends with Sir Eustace's mother and
sisters ; with Alice especially she had formed
a close friendship. Lady Bellingham,
greatly admiring her, and feeling that a
wife so beautiful and so much admired
would in all ways be desirable for her son,
had encouraged and even delighted in their
engagement ; but when the crash came and
discovered the real state of the fortunes of
the family, the disappointment was bitter,
and she determined to spare no trouble to
break off the engagement.

While the Austenss continued to live
abroad, she had every hope that continued
absence would weaken the tie ; but it was
not to be. With one of the sudden, unreasoning
freaks that guided, or rather
drifted, Ralph Austen's selfish life, he determined

to come to England, and settle in
London. The prospect was very pleasant
to Marion, who had grown terribly weary of
their foreign life ; she longed to be settled,
and it was with great satisfaction that she
set to work to make the new house in Manchester
Square habitable, and as pretty as
possible. The years that had passed had
only developed her beauty, though they
had taken from her the orirlishness of extreme
youth, and given her a dignity and
grace rarely seen before twenty-two or
three.

Gerty Austen welcomed her warmly, but
poor Marion found disappointment in her
old friendships. Her father exacted all her
evenings ; she could not go into the society
from which his health debarred him, and
she saw very few people. She had plenty
of resources in herself; but for that, her life
would have been indescribably dull. For

<a time she endeavoured to influence her
father, to bend his life a little into conformity
with her own longings; but, saddened
and oppressed by the hopelessness of her
engagement, she lost the spirit to persevere.
She could not face the small, nagging opposition
fco every desire, every engagement,
every small daily plan, and it drifted into
her doing everything he wished, and merging
the individuality of her life almost as completely
as her mother had done.

By degrees Lady Bellingham's anxious
desire to break off the engagement became
too strong for her ; she spoke to Marion
about it. It was a new idea to her that
she was doing her betrothed an actual
injury. Lady Bellingham, when her feelings
were strong, did not spare words ;
she admired and loved Marion for her
beauty and her many attractions, yet for
her son's sake she was merciless. The

girl stood before her quite motionless, with
her hands wrung together, and her face
as white as snow. The anguish of that
moment was untold ; she was called upon to
resign the one joy, the only happiness of
her life, a life already clouded and weighted
with care. Lady Bellingham could obtain
no answer, no promise. She talked long
and eagerly. May only pushed back the
hair from her brow, and looked at her with
bewildered eyes, and said slowly :

I don't know. I must think. I can't
tell. Give me time.'

When it was over. Lady Bellingham
rose, and kissed her warmly.

Forgive me, my dear !' she repeated
over and over again. * Under other circumstances
you know quite well how I should
have welcomed you ; but now, for both your

sakes, for yours quite as much as his

Don't you see ? Cannot you understand 1'

Marion only repeated her faint * I don't
know,' with that half foreign accent which
gave so strong a pathos to her voice, and
Lady Bellingham returned to Castleford full
of misgivings, discontented with herself,
and angry with May for not having been
more reasonable.

But the seed had been sown ; all day and
all through the hot summer nights the
words she had heard rang in Marion's ears.
She could not put them from her ; there was
sufficient truth in them to pierce her very
soul. Having always lived abroad, marriage
had been more often presented to her from a
business point of view than from any other ;
she had been accustomed to hear such pros
and cons weighed, and to the small account
in which love was held as a weight in the
scale. In vain she fought it over in her
own tired mind ; she could not determine the
true value and proportions of these things :

she could not make up her mind as to
whether she would inflict the worst injury
on her betrothed by neglecting his love or
by compromising his fortunes. In the
midst of it all, during this time of painful
conflict, a thought of herself hardly ever
crossed her mind.

Upon this came Lady Bellingham's letter,
announcing the final failure of all their
hopes — Eustace was ruined.

May sat by the window with this letter in
her hand. Again Lady Bellingham had
shown consummate skill : she had ceased to
dwell on the injury to his worldly prospects ;
she had planted her sting straight in the
heart of the loving, large-souled girl ; she
had pointed out to her that the one crutch
on which she still leant, her lover's happiness,
was not secured but impaired by their
engagement. She had conquered.

May wrote to Sir Eustace, wrote gently

VOL. I. 7

but very firmly, with a strange feeling that
this well-expressed letter was not reality but
fiction — a page out of some novel she had
read, a thing that would have no direct
effect on her own destiny — it would otherwise
have seemed so impossible that she
could so coldly, so dispassionately write to
one she loved so well.

It was finished, very carefully sealed — she
did not read it twice — and then May sat
still, and with her eyes fixed upon vacancy,
wondered why she felt so numb and weak.

Lord Austen came in while she was sitting
thus ; he came straight up to her, and stood
looking at her for a full minute before the
fact of any presence penetrated her trance
of pain. Her look frightened him ; the
pang shot through all the tenderness of his
nature. He yearned over her; he would have
given everything that he possessed to have
procured her happiness.

May he said softly, * my poor child !
what is it ?'

He sat down beside her, and took her
hand in both his.

What is it, May X he said again.

She turned her desolate eyes upon him.

Austen,' she said, ' tell me if I have
done right. Advise me, help me ; I have no
one now but you.*

Anything that I can do,' he said. ^ I
would be to you father or brother, May
don't you know that V

I don't think you can help me,' she said,
shaking her head, all unconscious of selfishness,
for she had never understood the great
love of this man.

Let me try, dear.'

It is the difficulty of knowing what is
right — whether I have been cruel, or
whether I have been kind. Read that ;' and
she gave him Lady Bellingham's letter.

7—2

He read it slowly, and returned it to her
very gravely.

Well !' she cried almost impatiently.
Tell me the truth ! Is she right V

It is very difficult to say ' he began ;

but she interrupted him, pressing her hands
together on her burning brow.

It is so difficult that there seems no
help, no light, no counsel !' she cried. ' It
is all dark — dark. I do not know what I
am doing, or where I am going.'

How can I help you, dear V he said
sadly. ' The letter is very distinct ; there
is no mercy in it.'

There are times when mercy seems a
mockery !' cried Marion. * I want plain
truth — harsh common-sense, as you in England
call it. Is she right '{ — is it hard on
him

Hard on him to be engaged to you ?
A thousand times — no I'

But if it were not I ? You are too
good to me to judge hastily. Is it so great
a burden round a man's neck ? — is it the
ruin of him % Tell me truly — honestly ; at
least I know that from you I shall hear
the truth.'

Such a position is undoubtedly a
misfortune to a man,' said Lord Austen.
May, spare me. Do not make me the
instrument to destroy your small amount
of happiness.'

Then what she says is true V

In one sense it is true.'

Only in one?'

Yes r he exclaimed. ' For the happiness
of knowing that you are his, and his only,
should be enough to compensate for every
weight of ill-fortune and deferred hope that
can assail him. For such a hope a man
would wait longer than Jacob did, and be
happy.'

Some men,' she said. ' But we do not
know how much Jacob suffered. Why
should Eustace suffer ?'

Suffering is nothing said Lord Austen.
It will make a man of him ; he is young
yet, and all the possibilities of the future
are before him. Pain is the common
lot.'

The possibilities of the future lie in my
giving him up said May, clasping her
hands together. ' Do you not see that ?
It is I — I that stand between him and
these possibilities. His mother says so ;
and, Austen — Austen, I feel it here in my
heart !'

What shall you do ?' he said after a
pause.

Send this letter ; your negative advice
decides me. Will you ring the bell ?'

Accustomed to obey her every movement,
he did so mechanically. Both were calm

and perfectly silent as the servant came and
took away the letter.

Then May wrung her hands, and the
lahore tears rolled down her cheeks.

o

It is done— done !' she cried. And now
I may think of myself. "What is left for me ?'

My poor child — my poor, poor child !'
was all her cousin could find words to say.
How can I help you ?'

You cannot help me !' she exclaimed,
rising; and walking up and down the room.
See ! have you ever known of a prisoner
who for long, long years has lain in a dark
prison, and into that darkness came one ray
of light — one tiny patch of blue sky — one
tiny gleam of a little star when night was
at the blackest ; and with his own hand —
his own, own cruel hand, he shut out the

light r

My May !'

I have done it !' she exclaimed. * I have

shut it out — it is all dark now I Oh,
Austen, Austen, pity me !'

Her longing for sympathy rose up in a
kind of wail.

He had never seen her give way before ;
had never had even a glimpse into the
power of suffering her strong nature possessed
: it half broke his heart.

If it is any comfort to you,' he said
brokenly — ' to know that I think in this you
have behaved nobly, grandly, sacrificing
your own happiness in a way no other
woman would have done.'

If it were but over 1' she gasped. * If \
knew how he would bear it — what he would
say or do !'

You will soon know, May,' he said ;
poor Bellingham is sure to come at once.'

Oh, must I see him ? Must I go
through it all again ?'

I think you ought to see him,' said

Lord Austen. ' May dearest, it is a hard
thing to advise. I think you ought to hear
what he has to say.'

How shall I bear it '?'

It is his right,' said her cousin firmly.
Troth is too solemn a thing to be broken
lightly by one only. You must hear what
he has to say. Were I he, I would not '

He stopped himself abruptly, but Marion
was too much absorbed in her own pain to
heed his words. She stood leaning against the
window now, striving hard for self-mastery ;
he could hardly bear to see the torture in
her face. But the moments of solitude
were few ; her father's voice and the sound
of his stick became audible, and his entrance
was followed by a thousand petty tasks,
small exactions, and a flow of peevish talk
which Lord Austen hastened to draw upon
himself, rejoicing that it enabled May to
leave the room for ten minutes of peace.

ES, Mr. St. Aubyn, it is a very
anxious matter,' said Mrs.
Brown-clifford, looking wp into
the Eector's half-amused face. ^ As I have
said to my sister times upon times, wealth
is a vast responsibility.*

'At this moment we were speaking of
another kind of responsibility, I think.'

Yes, but one hinges upon the other. Our
poor child is a great heiress, a very great
heiress.'

Indeed V said Mr. St. Aubyn interrogatively.
' I have never heard the extent of
her prospects.'

She will have fifteen thousand a year,
besides any little savings my sister and I
choose to put aside for her.'

Indeed I' repeated the Rector, in quite
another tone of voice. Fifteen thousand
a year ! this was a more important fortune
than had ever crossed his imagination.
That is a very large fortune indeed !'

Mrs. Brown Clifford leant back in her
chair and crossed her listened hands. She
looked very like a large, soft Persian cat as
she did so ; her eyes were quite round and
blue, her hair white as snow and arranged
in old-fashioned bunches of curls on each
side of her high narrow forehead ; her round
fat face had all the softness of that animal
without a trace of the latent fierceness
characteristic of the species.

'It is a large fortune,' she said ; ' and to
preserve our poor child from fortune-hunters
we have left London and taken this place.'

Indeed !'

The reiteration of that word suddenly
struck Mr. St. Aubyn as absurd, and he
coughed and hastened to continue :

I suppose, nevertheless, that you and
your sister would wish your daughter to
marry some day V

The old lady slowly shook her head, with
a movement that was rather pensive than
negative.

Yes,' she said, ' if it could be arranged
comfortably by all parties, so that I might
be assured that the motives were all we
could wish.'

And the ingredient vulgarly called love ?'

T do not consider that in the least
essential,' said Mrs. Brown Clifford. ' In
the first place, how is anyone to know our
Kitty sufficiently intimately to fall in love
with her ? We cannot take her into society
because of the fortune-hunters ; we have

brought her up with an extreme horror of
all young men.'

Dear me ! dear me !' exclaimed Mr. St.
Aubyn, laughing. ' But surely that was a
mistake ?'

It was a necessary precaution said Mrs.
Brown Clifford. ' Mr. Brown-Clifford is not
here to keep them off. I and my sister are
but feeble women, unable to cope with the
multitude.'

My dear lady !' cried the Rector ; 'where
have you acquired such an extraordinarily
bad opinion of human nature "?'

I have read much,' she answered, with
her hand on the last new novel from
Muche's library. * I have studied human
nature closely.'

So poor little Kitty has been brought
up with a horror of men \ Has she been
overwhelmed with suitors already V

No said her mother with emphasis.

She has (thanks to these just precautions)
not had one.'

Then your fears are surely set at rest ?'
said the Eector.

Not at all — not at all. Don't you see,
I am beginning to fear now that the end
will be that she will never marry at all.'

'From Scylla to Charybdis !' cried Mr.
St. Aubyn, bursting into a roar of laughter.
At last I begin to understand. Well, my
dear madam, can I in any way assist you ?
You have only to command me.'

Katharine is not in the least handsome, '
said her mother plaintively. ' She has no
presence, no figure, no attractions.'

Les heaiix yeux de sa cassette!' murmured
Mr. St. Aubyn ; but he was thankful that
Mrs. Brown-Clifford only said, ' Eh T and
was too much absorbed in her own speech
to demand a repetition of his.

I was handsome,' she continued. ' I

had apple-cheeks and sky-blue eyes ; but
Mr. Brown Clifford was plain, very plain.
He had a large chin, but nothing else of any
significance ; and Kitty also is what might
be called insignificant.'

If she had a little of the fun and jollity
of other girls she would soon lose that.
Why do you not let her see more of my
nieces, the Bellingham girls, for instance %
They would soon brighten her up.'

I don't know,' said her mother. * The
young ladies would be all very well, but'
here she lowered her voice to a
whisper — ' there is the son.'

Well, what about him ? He is one of
the finest fellows I know.'

Suppose, suppose '

Well, suppose that he should fall in
love with your Kitty (I wish there were a
chance of it, poor old fellow !), I should consider
her an exceedingly lucky girl.'

You think then that it would do ?' asked
Mrs. Brown-ClifFord.

Mr. St. Aubyn paused for a moment.
Lady Bellingham came into his mind, a
worldly ambitious spirit ; even though his
own sister, he dispassionately thought her
one of the most disagreeable women he
knew.

It would be very desirable in all ways
he said thoughtfully. * Eustace Bellingham
is very proud and very poor. He
would make your daughter the kindest,
most generous of husbands, but there — dismiss
it from your mind ; his heart has been
given away ages ago. I am afraid there is
not a chance of such a think; coming; to
pass.'

soh!' said Mrs. Brown-clifford, with
some disappointment, ' what a bore it is
that when a thing sounds suitable it should
not be feasible I Yes — my poor Katharine

may after all never be married, but I cannot
regret my precautions

Mr. St. Aubyn thought with poignant
regret of that fifteen thousand a year.

If only my nephew were heart-free !' h(^
said. ' But no ! no, it is of no use ; it would
never do !'

A vision flashed across him of his nephew
in all the splendour of youth and unusual
beauty, with the fastidious taste of a much-admired
young Guardsman, and then of
little gentle Kitty Brown-Clifford, ill-dressed,
old-fashioned, with prim manners,
and a shrinking dread of even the most
ungainly hobble-de-hoy carefully instilled
into her poor shy little mind !

I do not think,' he exclaimed almost
indignantly, * that it is either right or kind
to put such ideas into a girl's head ; it
injures her self-respect. Why should she
be less worthy of the devotion of an honest

VOL. I. 8

man because she has the misfortune to bean
heiress ? She wouki have been just
the same girl if her brother had been
born.'

'He was born,' said Mrs. Brown-Clifford
complacently—' he was born, but he died ;
and I am sure no one could blame me for
taking precautions.'

The Hector's yearnings after that fifteen
thousand a year for his favourite nephew
were increasing to a passion. He rapidly
turned over in his mind all that the good
lady had said, and then spoke with a spirit
that could not have had a better effect had
it been well premeditated.

My dear madam, allow me to give you
one piece of advice. I am fond of your
Kitty. My poor daughter, who, as you
are aware, can have but few pleasures,
greatly enjoys having her by her sofa, and
speaks most highly of her ; but she says,

ind I say, and everybody with common -
sense would say the same, that you will
ruin that girl !'

Not at all,' said Mrs. Brown-Clifford.

Yes,' he persisted. * You will ruin all
her prospects in life by the course of treatment
you are pursuing. Men are proud.
Do you suppose any man worth twopence-halfpenny
would dream of paying court to a
young lady who is always defending her
fortune ? Good gracious, madam ! have
you never lived among gentlemen ? Have
you ever seen a game of fox and goose and
g;oslino;s ?'

Yes,' said Mrs. Brown Clifford, ' I have
seen the game, certainly ; and I can fancy
myself the old goose, and you— ahem !'

He could not help laughing.

A truce to metaphor I' he exclaimed
gaily. ' Let Kitty go and play with Alice
and Georgie Bellingham, and be silly and

8—2

light-hearted and full of fun as they are ;
there is no fox there.'

Sir Eustace ?'

Poor fellow, you need not be afraid of
him ; he is booked, I am afraid. If he

were not, and Kitty had the good-luck

But folly ! there is not a chance of it ;
nothing sensible and rational ever happens
in this world, so you need not take
the trouble to dodge with your gosling in
in front of that fox. And the only other
man at Castleford is Joe Mulroy, who is
desperately in love with the wrong niece.'

The wrong niece ?'

The one he should not have chosen. It
is a nasty, crooked, disagreeable world,' said
the Rector snappishly.

For that reason it is always advisable to
take precautions,' said Mrs. Brown-Clifford.

Mr. St. Aubyn rose to depart. As he
did so, the long French window opened, and

two ladies came in — Miss Matilda and her
niece, both with their hands full of flowers.
Miss Matty, shaking her long gray curls,
immediately rang for tea, and the Eector
sat down again.

Do you never have tea out of doors on
these lovely evenings ?' he said suddenly.

Kitty answered him. She had drawn a
cane-chair up to the table, and seated herself.
Her black silk gown was old-fashioned ;
Lier hair was neatly parted and smoothed
behind pretty little ears ; her gentle face
was calm and collected. She looked up at
him with soft blue eyes, and lips a little
compressed. Yet Mr. St. Aubyn, with his
eyes half shut, could fancy her a little
more animated, more rosy, with her pretty
head frizzy with little fluffy curls like other
girls, and a ruff round her slender throat
instead of that uncompromising linen collar.
Yes, there were capabilities ; there was

nothing to prevent her from being very
pretty indeed. Before these thoughts had
even time to shape themselves in his mind,
her sedate little voice was answering his
question.

No ; we do not have tea out of doors.
Mamma catches cold easily, and of course
she always has to take precautions.'

To their surprise he leapt up ; Kitty's
precautions ' were too much for him.

So sorry, so very sorry ! I had quite
forgotten an engagement. Must run away
at once ; not a moment to lose !'

He was impulsive, and, like a whirlwind,
was gone before the three ladies, who were
accustomed to deliberation of movement,
could rise from their seats.

I like rapid action,' said Miss Matty,
sitting down again and stirring her tea. ' I
am glad we came here, Elizabeth.'

So am I, Matty, and — sit upright, my

love, and never interrupt when anyone is
speaking — I have come to the conclusion
that I will allow Katharine to visit the
Miss Bellingham.'

And a very good thing too said Miss
Matty decidedly. '.

Katharine, go to the window, love, and
look out for five minutes ; I want to speak to
your aunt'

Kitty tranquilly obeyed. She carried her
tea with her, and sat on a chair looking out
and sipping it. She did not want to overhear
the loud-whispered conversation, but
she could not help it.

*My dear,' said Mrs. Brown-clifford, stooping
forward, ' there is not the slightest
reason against it ; Sir Eustace is as good as
eDo;ao;ed.'

I am sorry to hear it said Miss Matilda
shortly.

And the other man, whom we always see

With them in church, is in love with the

wrong Miss Bellingham.'
Ah !'

So Sir Eustace is booked.'
Elizabeth, what an expression !'
Never mind the expression, so long as it

conveys the meaning.'

You need not be afraid, mamma,' said
Kitty, suddenly coming forward. ' It is
very kind of you to let me go and see the
Bellinghamss, and I shall like it very much.
But you need not be afraid; Sir Eustace
would no more think of me than he would
of Aunt Matty.'

I don't think he would,' said Miss
Matilda, nodding her gray curls.

Of course not,' went on Kitty, her voice
trembling a little ; ' a poor little insignificant,
foolish, half-educated girl like me. Only
look at the girls to idiom he is accustomed !'

My dear, you are just as good as any of

It

them,' said Miss Matty ; but Kitty shook
her head :

I might have been, if I had not '

She stopped herself. Her aunt knew what
she meant, and pitied her ; she often was
sorry for her. She might have been so
different if this painful self-consciousness
had not been awakened, and carefully
fostered by her mother's system.

Poor little girl ! try to be simple,' said
her aunt.

It is too late,' answered Kitty.

Give me some more tea, my love,' said
Mrs. Brown-clifford. ' Much weaker and
with more sugar. Surely there are tears
in your eyes I Don't ! it will make your
nose red.'

^1^^^ Fifteen thousand a year, Louisa !
kA(<W-^^ y^^^ ^^^^^^ ^ ^^^^ under your

very roof, in the next room.
Oh dear ! sometimes (but very rarely), just
sometimes, things seem to go well.'

With you, perhaps, Charles said Lady
Bellingham : ' but I have long ceased to hope
for anything. There never was anybody so
persistently unlucky ; nothing comfortable or
even reasonable ever happens to me. Eustace
will not listen to a word I say, and really I
sometimes wonder how it will all end. How
much do you say V

Fifteen thousand a year.'

I don't believe it.'

My dear Louisa !'

• Well, and if she has got it, why can't
she be handsome, and attractive, and
delightful, like May Austen ? But no, it is
just what always happens ; she is the sort of
little nobody whom no one would dream of
falling in love with, and May is like a Juno
without a sixpence. It is too hard !'

A momentary thought flashed across the
Rector that this was wrong ; he ought to say
so, but he hastily dismissed it. A man
cannot be an oracle to his own sister, he said
to himself.

*■ What do you think Eustace said to me
this morning? He was positively violent.'

AVell, Louisa, I suppose you were worrying
him beyond all power of endurance.'

It is such nonsense to adhere to an
impossible engagement.'

Then it is an engagement ?'

In a sort of way. Till May herself releases
him, and breaks it off decidedly, he
will not give it up. Fifteen thousand a
year ! Are you sure ?'

The mother told me herself.'

Ah, of course she had a motive in that.
She wanted you to make it known.'

She has an overweening dread of 
; and she has instilled the
most absurd prejudice against all men into
poor Kitty's unsophisticated mind.'

Pshaw, what affectation ! One knows
what it means.'

I don't think you do. I have persuaded
Lier to let the poor child see something of
Alice and Georgie, really by way of brightening
up a most solitary little life ; but I
had to assure her old pussie-cat of a mother
that the only two men she would meet were
both already devoted to other young ladies.'

I don't think that was quite kind of
you, Charles.'

Unless I had said it, she would not have
been allowed to come at all. They are
always saying that they must take "precautions
;" they use the word so frequently
that when I heard it at last in the pretty
mouth of Kitty herself, I could stand it no
longer.'

Are they vulgar V

Not in the least ; they are quiet gentlefolks.
The father died young, and she has
never been into society or seen anything of
the world ; and she has worked herself up
into a wonderful notion of its snares and
pitfalls for her young heiress — poor little
soul !'

I suppose the money was honestly come
byron

dear yes ; an accumulation of uncles
and aunts, who none of them had any

children. A foundation of fortune somewhere
— India, I think ; but I am not
sure.'

And the girl is, at all events, presentable
V

A nice little quiet thing.'

But oh, Charles — one goes back to the
same thing — what chance has anyone in
comparison with Marion Austen ? I saw
her in London as we passed through. She
seemed to me handsomer than ever. She
was at Lady Brandon's. They had music
in the evening, and Marion sang ; her
voice is magnificent. She moves like a
ijueen. Oh, what a horrid, horrid world

it is r

Mr. St. Aubyn sighed. ' Poor May !' he
said. ' After all, Louisa, is it so very hopeless
? What a couple they would make ! —
the handsomest couple in England ! Are
not people too much afraid of a little

poverty nowadays \ I suppose matters
will right themselves some day.'

It is difficult to see how,' said Lady
Bellingham gloomily. ' At this moment
Eustace's spending income is under four
hundred a year.'

Impossible !'

Perfectly true, and the end of it will be
that the old place will have to go:'

Castleford ?'

Yes. How is he to live here, do you
imagine? And how is he to marry? It
is ridiculous to think of it ! He could
struggle on somehow as he is, but if he
marries May it would be a different thing.
Don't you see how hopeless it is ?'

Yes, I see ; but they might wait.'

They have waited already some years ;
and what is there to wait for ? Shall we
find a gold mine in the park ? or even a
little coal ? They only break each other s

hearts, and do no good. 1 speak quite as
much for May's sake as for his. She might
marry anyone, she is so splendid.'

Poor children, it is very hard 1 Well,
well, I suppose nothing can be done then.
What are the girls doing to-day V

They are riding with Mr. Mulroy and
Eustace.'

Do I not hear the horses coming home V

1 dare say. Go and see them if you
like ; I am muck too tired and worried.
Eeally, when one hears of the luck that
some people have, one is tempted to wish
one were anybody rather than one's self.'

Mr. St. Aubyn went out into the hall
to greet the riding-party. The sun was
sinking, and the strong glow of golden
colour shone on their faces as they rode up.

Eustace wore the look of settled care that
had become habitual to him of late. Both
his sisters were laughing merrily. They

were very pretty girls, both with slight,
graceful figures, and great charm of movement
and manner. Mr. Mulroy rode rather
in the shadow of the others.

How do you do, Uncle Charlie "?' cried
Alice, as they rode up. * What do you
think ? We have had a companion in our
ride to-day.'

Indeed I and who may that be ?'

Your little "protegee Kitty Brown-clifford.
We actually persuaded her to join
us. She must be so dull always riding
alone.'

Does she ride well ?'

That sort of girl does everything in a
neutral tint. It would never enter one's
head to say that she rode either well or
badly.'

The highest praise of all,' said Eustace,
dismounting. *A woman should not be
conspicuous.'

VOL. I. 9

Even by excellence ?' asked Georgie.

Certainly not by her dress,' said Eustace,
pointing to lier hat with all the candour of
an affectionate brother. ' No one wears
anything but a decent billycock on horseback
now.'

There is something picturesque in Miss
Bellingham's plumes,' said Mr. Mulroy,
'which should protect them from your
criticism.'

Miss Brown Clifford was highly correct,'
said Georgie, laughing, ' except as to the
principal part of the whole thing. She was
riding a rocking-horse. Imagine buying a
white horse with a large gray rash all over
it, an arched neck, and a tail which touched
the ground !'

Sounds like an Arab,' said the Rector.

Or the last screw from Ashley's, sold because
it would not keep strict time in the
dance,' said Georgie gaily.

I don't think so,' said Alice. ' To me it
^yas more like the fulfilled ideal of one's
early childhood, arched neck and all — a
girl's purchase who had no brother to des-illusions
her.' And she touched her
brother's arm affectionately as they went
indoors.

Lady Bellingham was seated by the
tea-table, reading the Pall-mall, and abstractedly
eating bread and butter.

Make haste and get your things off,' she
said. ' And let us be comfortable, and have
some music'

When they returned Lady Bellingham
had finished the Pall-mall.

Now for your adventures,' she said.

I don't think that we had any, mamma,'
said Alice. ' We went a long way over
Roscommon, and talked the whole time
about castles in the air.'

An unsubstantial subject of conversable



tion,' said Mr. St. Aubyn. ^ Pray did you
compare notes respectively "?'

As far as we could. Alice's and mine
were identical, and bounded by a very near
horizon indeed — a winter at Florence.'

Oh, is it at all likely V cried Mr. Milroy
eagerly.

'More unlikely things have happened
said Lady Bellingham. ' Well, and what
were your aspirations V

If I had not been forced to begin, I also
would have mentioned Italy,' he said, a hot
blush mantling over his face.

*But as it was, Mr. Mulroy's ambition
soared to unknown heights,' cried Georgie ;
and he aspired to be a Raphael.'

'No, no, only a copyist; indeed, Miss
Bellingham, I am so fond of painting.'

And Miss Brown-clifford, what had she
to say ?' asked Mr. St. Aubyn.

She had nothing to say but a frightened

little " Oh ! I don't know." What a timid
little person it is !'

She was wise enough not to waste
her thoughts on such follies as castles
in the air,' said Sir Eustace, rather
bitterly.

Do not call them follies,' said Mr.
Mulroy quickly. ' They are the best part
of life.'

"Man never is, but always to be blest"*
said the Rector brightly. ' Come, come,
Mr. Mulroy ; I hope that you will not be
doomed to find all the best part of your life
in dreams

Confess to yours, Eustace,' said his
mother.

Mine ? I have outlived illusion,' he
answered. ' So that small Brown-Clifford
girl and I have reached the same conclusion
we don't know.*

He got up and went to the piano. ' Come

and siiig, Alice he said ; * I want you to try
a new song.'

She followed him. 'Is it a nice one %
where did you get it ?'

Yes, it is one of Marion's.'

Oh, but you won't recognise it when I
sing it.'

Well, no ; it is not exactly the same
thing. But I want to learn the second, so
make haste, like a good child.'

Alice sat down before the piano and took
the music. 'Ah, Eustace,' she said softly,
how I wish she were here to sing it instead
of me r

Don't bother,' was all he said ; but his
lip quivered as he hastily turned over the
leaves.

Alice Bellingham's voice was sweet and
true, and she sang very well ; but the words
and music of the song only served to bring
vividly before her brother's mind the

glorious voice of the woman whom he loved
with an absorbing devotion. With the
irritability of pain he interrupted her at last.
You do play it so differently, Alice ; it
is not in the least the same.'

I can't help it she answered good
naturedly. ' If I had ever heard May sing
it, I could have done better; on a little
trivial song like this she would manage to
put an interpretation all her own, and give
it a value it does not possess.'

Come out,' he said restlessly.
^ I am afraid I cannot,' she answered,
glancing at her tea-gown regretfully.

Well, into the conservatory, at all
events,' he said, ' out of the mob. Does
that fellow Mulroy mean to live and die
here ?' he went on, as he pushed open the
conservatory door and they went in.

It looks like it,' said Alice. * In fact, I
begin to be sure of it.'

You mean it '?'

Don't you see that he is getting to be
more and more in love with Georgie V
Yes. What a fool he must be !'

My dear Eustace !'

Why, if he had half an eye in his head,
Georgie is not the one he would have
chosen.'

I am exceedingly thankful for the defect
in his ocular vision, if that is the case
said Alice lightly.

'So am I,' said her brother. *Now
Alice, give me the letter ; I am sure May
must have written to you.'

Yes,' said Alice slowly ; ' she has
written, and encloses a letter for you,
but I am not sure whether you will like

it;

A letter for me !' he said quickly. ' Let
me have it at once.'

Eustace darling, I am afraid it will give

you great pain,' she said, laying her hand
lovingly on his arm.

Never mind.'

May cannot bear hurting you,' went on
his sister. ' But I hope you will be patient.'

Have you all been working upon her V
he exclaimed, almost fiercely.

No, no ; who should work upon her %
Darling, I hate giving it to you.'

Eustace took the letter she gave him, and
walked away with it to the far end of the
conservatory.

Alice seated herself on a stone seat, and
began slowly reading over again the words
addressed to herself.

My dearest Alice,' they began,

Your mother is quite right ; it has
been hard for me quite to take her view of
the question, but at last I have made up
my mind that it is the right one. I have

written to Eustace to say so ; will you give
him the letter? I wish — oh, I wish we
could go into the country ! but I have no
hope of it. Life is more intolerable to me
now than I know how to bear. Austen is
more than good to me, but even he cannot
persuade papa that change would do us
both good. Do not fret about me ; other
women have outlived seeing their ship go
down in full sail before their eyes, and I
shall do so also. Your mother says that
love-troubles are purely imaginary, and of
very small importance. Your mother has
become my oracle. If Eustace feels it very
much, comfort him — oh, Alice, do comfort
him ! Your loving friend,

'Marion Austen.'

Alice's eyes brimmed over with tears as
she laid down the letter, and looked towards
her brother. He was standing with his

back to her, earnestly reading his letter ;
he stood so Ions; without divino; that she
was startled, and went up to him.

Eustace,' she said ; ' darling !'

He started, and turned round.

There has been some mistake,' he said.
May would never have written to me like
this unless some very strong pressure had
been put upon her ; it must have been my
mother.'

Does she say so ?' faltered Alice.

No, she says nothing of the sort ; but I
can see it in every line. Do you know
what she writes ?' he said rapidly. ' Do
you know that calmly, coolly, as if I were
quite indifferent to her, she tells me that
our eno'aorement is at an end, and was all a
mistake from the very beginning "?'

Oh, poor May !' cried Alice. ' Calm !
indifferent ! Even you do not know her !'

Alice was angry with herself for so

saying, but the words came out in spite of
herself, in vindication of her friend. She
could not see the advisability of a rupture
of the engagement — she refused to believe
that it would be best ; and her mother's
point of view appeared to her hard and
false under the disguise of common-sense.

*This must be my mother's doing,'
Eustace repeated.

Or old Mr. Austin's said Alice
anxiously.

Not he; he did not care in the least. He
knew May never meant to leave him, and
had quite suGBcient selfish confidence in her
not to care a rap for what we might have
to suffer.'

What do you mean to do ?' said Alice
timidly.

Do ? you remind me ! Of course I
must go up to town to-night and see
her the first thing tomorrow ; but before

I start, I must have it out with my
mother.'

He strode towards the drawing-room ;
Alice ran after him. * Eustace ! Eustace 1
you will not be angry with her V

I must first of all find out whether I
have cause,' he said. 'Leave me alone,
Alice. My mother and I ought to understand
each other by this time ; it has been a
case of steady opposition to all my wishes
ever since I could walk alone.'

It is all for your good.'

Then I wish she would cease all interest
in my welfare.'

Eustace darling, only have a little
patience !'

I think I have erred in the contrary direction,'
he said, putting aside her detaining
hand. ' It is rapidly becoming exhausted.'

He went in, and Alice sat down and
burst into tears.

[ADY BELLINGHAM and Mr. St.

Aubyn had both left the drawn
g-room when Sir Eustace went

in ; the only occupants were Georgie, who

was seated in a low armchair knitting, and

Mr. Mulroy, who stood by the mantelpiece

looking at her with adoring eyes.
Where is my mother, Georgie T
Gone to her room with Uncle Charles ;

they are having a voluminous gossip,' she

answered.

He went upstairs four steps at a time to

Lady Bellingham's dressing-room.

Things never do come right.'

The oft-repeated phrase was on her lips
when her son's impetuous knock made her
start.

She was lying on her sofa in great comfort
; the curtains were drawn, and one small
reading-lamp threw a pleasant light on the
comfortable little room. The Eector lay
back in the deepest, most luxurious of armchairs,
with his arms on the elbows and the
points of his white fat fingers touching each
other.

In their ease and repose they were a contrast
to the energetic, troubled-looking man
who burst in upon them.

My dear boy, how noisy you are !' said
his mother languidly. * What can you
want ? Your uncle and I were enjoying a
quiet talk in perfect peace.'

I suppose you were talking over my
affairs,' he said bitterly. * It seems to me

that I am the main subject of your consideration
just now, mother. I wish —
heaven knows how I wish that you would
let me alone !'

My dear Eustace, what is the matter V
said Lady Bellingham. 'After all, whose
affairs are more important to a mother than
those of her only son ?'

At least they are not so to Uncle Charles
said Sir Eustace quickly.

He longed for his uncle to go away, but
he would not take the hint. He remained
seated as he was, only that he now lightly
rubbed his hands together. He felt that
something thrilling was in the air, and he
would not have missed it for the world.

Sic down, Eu, sit down,' he said. ' If a
man has anything emphatic to say, it gives
him an unfair advantage if he is on his feet.
I don't like it, my boy, I assure you.'

I am not going to stay,' said Sir Eustace

hastily. * Indeed I came up to tell you,
mamma, that I am going up to London tonight.'


You can't, my dear,' said Lady Bellingham
complacently. ' I have a dinner-party.'


I never heard a word of it.'

An impromptu sort of affair, half a dozen
people, the Raymond and Laurence, etc'

*' I am very sorry, but I cannot be here.
I must go to London at once.

What's the matter ?' said Mr. St. Aubyn.
Eustace answered sharply in his pain.

Some one has been putting nonsense into
Marion's head, and I must go there at once
to set it right.'

Lady Bellingham sat upright eagerly.
What !' she exclaimed. ' Have you
heard from May X

Yes, the most unaccountable letter. I
wonder what she means I'

VOL. I. 10

Marion never acts on impulse said
Mr. St. Aubyn. ' I consider her judgment
to be unusually calm and just!'

She has been over-persuaded, coerced,'
he cried — ^ I am convinced of it !'

But what has she done ?' said Lady
Bellingham.

She has written to break off her engagement.'


'■ She is a noble creature !' cried his
mother. ' I honour her, I love her for it.'

You honour and love her for treating me
like this !' he exclaimed. * Mother, do you
know that, far from thinking this thing
honourable or lovable, I am perfectly convinced
that she would never have behaved
to me in this cruel and heartless way unless
some strong underhand influence had been
brought to bear upon her.'

Softly, softly murmured his uncle.
You say nothing of her reasons, my boy.'

Because I do not believe in them. " It
is all for your ultimate good," says the
person who breaks your heart ; but you
cannot expect the victim to say, "Thank
you." '

My dear child, some day you will live to
be thankful said his mother, re-arranging
her cushions. ' Of course, we cannot expect
you to see it now, poor fellow !'

This is your doing, mother. I am quite
sure of it !' he exclaimed. ' And if it is soit
is cruel indeed. Have I so much happiness
in this world that you can take from
me without compunction even the poor
comfort of our hopeless engagement ? It is
cruel to have turned her also against me.'

'My dear Eustace,' said Mr. St. Aubyn
quietly, 'take care what you say. After
all, your mother may have had nothing todo
with it. Does Marion Austen say that
she had *?'

10—2

No, she is too generous to confess it ; but
I see it in every line of her letter.'

'You jump to conclusions. There are
two sides to this question. May not Marion
herself have become tired of waiting ?
Young ladies do not willingly waste all
their youth and beauty.'

He turned impatiently from his uncle.

When did you do it, mother ?' he said.
And what arguments did you use to be
strong enough ?

'I don't see any object in denying it,
Charles,' said Lady Bellingham. ' I spoke
to May as we passed through London, then,
I must confess, without the smallest success ;
since then, I have written to her, and I admit
that I also am taken by surprise. She
is a noble creature, after all.'

Mother,' he said, the flush rising scarlet
to his brow, * did you feel yourself justified
in acting like this ? Did you have no compunction

— not one trace of pity either for
her or me ? What must you not have
said !'

I feel amply justified,' she answered ;
and what is more, thoroughly convinced
that some day you will be thankful. Compunction
for her % I suspect that I am doing
as great a kindness to her as to you, and
that before the year is over she will be
amply consoled. What are you ringing for ?'
very sharply.

To order my T-cart. I shall only
just catch the up-train,' said Eustace impetuously.


I told you that you could not go to-night.
You cannot be so uncivil.'

There are times when one does not care
for such trifles as civility,' answered Sir
Eustace, ' and this is one of them.'

'My dear Eustace,' exclaimed Lady Bellingham,
to whom a breach of etiquette

was worse than a crime, ' it is impossible ;
you cannot mean to leave me like this !
What can I say to the guests — your own
guests X

Uncle Charles will stay and act host. It
is of no use, mother — go I must and will !
I cannot have a moment's peace until this
matter is set at rest.'

Let him go, Louisa said Mr. St. Aubyn,
in a low voice.

But the people — our dinner !'

Never mind.'

Mr. St. Aubyn was very sorry for his
nephew ; he saw in his flashing eyes and
tightly compressed lips that he was exercising
the strongest control over himself not
to betray the bitter resentment he felt
against his mother. He was afraid the self-control
might give way, and that he might
be tempted to say words that he would
regret afterwards.

You won't Lave too much time, Eustace,'
he said quietly. ' I think you had better
"go and prepare for your start.'

Good-bye, mother said Eustace. ' I
shall be gone before you are dressed for
dinner.'

In her anxiety she could not let him go
without a few last words.

My dear boy !' she exclaimed. 'Oh, if
only for once you would be ruled by me !
This is an opportunity that may never
occur again ; it would be much kinder to
poor May if you would just accept her offer,
and not tease her about it.'

May herself must be the judge of that,'
he answered quickly.

But, Eustace, young people never can
judge dispassionately. I have reason to
know that, if once this mad engagement
were broken off, that in time she would
accept Lord Austen.'

What !' he exclaimed.

It would be excellent in every way. I
cannot understand your hesitation. What
is it to give up ? You know, and she
knows, that it can never come to anything,
so it is only a farce that I want you to
resign ; and not only I, it is she herself
who has had the good sense to see that it is
best for both. And all I ask is that you
should not thwart her, and destroy her
future as well as your own.'

I have nothing more to say about it,' he
said rapidly. ' I shall see Marion, and decide
it all. Good-bye.'

But, Eustace '

But he was gone.

You try him too much, my dear,' said
Mr. St. Aubyn. ' It is not kind, and I very
much doubt its wisdom.'

Other people have dutiful children,' said
Lady Bellingham plaintively. 'Why should

it be that my only son is the one of all
others to go against me 1'

Come, come! is it not all the other way?'

I only do it for his good. How unreasonable
everyone is ! Eeally, there is no
common-sense to be found in the world !'

I think both you and I are a little over-weighted
with that commodity said Mr.
St. Aubyn gloomily.

Well, if you are beginning to be sentimental,
I don't know where we shall all
end.'

^ You will, at all events, have some comfort
in Georgie,' said her brother. ' She takes
after you in every respect, and is evidently
quite prepared to accept that uninteresting
individual who is far too much devoted to
her already for his own happiness.'

Mr. Mulroy \ Well, she might do worse ;
he is very rich. Now, Charles, you must go,
for I must dress and rack my unfortunate

sprain for some apology for Eustace's
absence.'

The Rector rose slowly.

Do you really want me to play host '?' he
said.

Want you % Of course, my dear Charles.
What a question ! Is there any difficulty X

I don't like to leave my poor girl so much
alone.'

Dear me, what a misfortune it is I' exclaimed
Lady Bellingham, as if the invalid
life were her misfortune rather than patient
Gwendoline St. Aubyn's.

Her words jarred on her brother.

Gwendo is so accustomed to give up her
wishes for other people, that you may
depend on me,' he said dryly ; and left the
room feeling ruffled and unhappy.

N the morning of the following
day, Mr. Austen and Marion
came upstairs into the drawing-room
of their London house, after the late
breakfast over which he loved to dawdle for
more than an hour.

May threw open the window and leant
out ; the flowers on the balcony were drooping
and parched ; streams of sunshine made
long, dusty rays pierce through the half-closed
persiennes.

What a stifling day, Marion !' said Mr.
Austen languidly. ' Not a breath of air to

be had. Upon my word, I think it is hotter
with the window open than shut ! Close it.'

May wearily obeyed.

Nothing in the paper ; there never is
anything worth reading. The Times is
damp again. How many times have I told
that fellow Barnes !'

^I will send it downstairs, papa.'

No ; if you do I shall have nothing to
read. I will send that fellow away. I
cannot stand his incessant carelessness any
longer.'

Head the Standard, papa.'

My dear Marion ! you know as well as I
do that I never read the Standard till I have
finished the Times. But you have not the
womanly faculty that your poor mother had
of always falling in with one's habits ; and
yet, as I have often told you, it is a much
greater charm in a woman than any amount
of fine singing or even good looks.'

I must not neglect my singing,' said
Marion. ^ It may be useful some day.'

She could not control a slight bitterness in
her tone.

What a dutiful, kind remark for a child
to make to a father !' said Mr. Austen. * In
broad daylight, without the smallest delicacy
bringing his death before his eyes. I am
much obliged to you, Marion; but it is only
what I might expect.'

Marion made no answer ; she was well
accustomed to this tone of conversation. She
only drew together her drawing materials,
and began quietly preparing her palette.
Her selfish father did not see how her hand
trembled, how white her lips were ; and if
he had seen it, he might only have grumbled
over the fact that he had himself no
monopoly of discomfort.

A loud knock at the door made her start,
and the colour rush into her face. It was

Lord Austen ; Marion went forward to meet
him with outstretched hand.

'May,' he said very low, 'Eustace Bellingham
is in town ; I saw him last night at
the club very late indeed. He will probably
come here this morning, so I came ; I might
be of use to you,' he added wistfully.

You here, Austen % at this time in the
morning!' exclaimed Mr. Austen. 'What
brings you % I don't suppose any particular
desire for our company.'

I am going out of town,' answered Lord
Austen, advancing to his chair. ' And I
came to see if you had any commands forme
; and as I am here 1 will sit down for
awhile. You are looking better, Ralph.'

Better ? That only shows that no one
san appreciate what I suffer. Now Marion
there is so strong and robust, she cannot
even imagine what it must be like to be ill ;
but she has no imagination. Hark ! another

ring at the bell. All the world seems to
be coming here this morning. Marion !
Marion, say *not at home." '

No, no !' exclaimed Lord Austen, with
rather a painful smile. * It is probably one
of May's young friends. Let them see each
other in the back drawing-room ; we two
can entertain each other meanwhile.'

But I hate visitors in the morning ; it
spoils all one's occupations. I won't have
it; I shall want May.'

Come, Ralph, it is too late. Show Sir
Eustace into the back drawing-room,' he
said quickly to the servant who opened the
door.

May's heart swelled with gratitude ; she
could not have done this for herself, and
now the sensation of this gentle, thoughtful
care surrounding her warmed and comforted
her. She rose to go ; every trace of
colour had left her face ; her eyelids drooped ;

there was a quiver in the beautiful, pathetic
mouth.

Lord Austen rose to open the door for her.
Courage, my poor child !' he said.

She could not force a smile, but she
glanced up at him, and the great sorrow in
her eyes wrung his heart.

Eustace Bellingham was standing by the
table when she pushed aside the heavy
red 'porters, and stood before him. He
also was white and haggard, and his voice
had a strained sound in it. He advanced
to meet her ; it was the old greeting once,
only once more. He held out his arms, and
she was clasped to his breast.

*I knew it could not be true,' he said
hoarsely, still holding her fast, and looking
down into the great wistful eyes that were
gazing up into his. ' You did not mean it ;
May, my darling, my own, you did not
mean those cruel, heartless words V

Still she did not speak ; still she remained
with her arms round his neck, with her
head on his shoulder for the last time.
How was she to bear if? The cry was
going up to heaven passionately from her
breaking heart.

'May, my May, answer me!' he exclaimed.


Then she unfastened her arms, and
gently, slowly, drew away from him. They
dropped by her side. Her eyes never left his
face, her lips scarcely seemed to move as
she spoke :

Yes, darling, it is true ; I mean
it.'

You throw me over ! You break our
engagement ! May, unless you tell it me
with your own lips, I will never believe it.
What is the reason of it ? What in the
name of all that is cruel could my mother
have written to you ?'

VOL. I. 11

It is not only her letter,' poor May
faltered. ' It is not only that ; but Eustace,
dear Eustace, I am convinced '

^ Convinced ! convinced of what ? Do
you know what you are doing V he exclaimed
almost roughly, in his passionate
pain. ' Do you know that you are speaking
thus easily of breaking the most solemn
promise one person can give to another ? Do
you know that V

I see — I know.'

She stood there looking at him, all
words failing, all power of self-defence
an agonizing sense possessing her that
he had a right to be angry, that her
kindness to him was cruel as the surgeon's
knife.

You see it, and yet you persist ? May
darling, only speak to me ; do not stand
there like a statue, as if my words could not
reach your heart. AVhat am I to believe ?

Is it that the love you gave me has died ?
Is it that some one else has taken my place?

If I thought that, I would '

Oh, hush ! hush !' she exclaimed.
Darling, do not speak like that ! Cease to
love you % Eustace, when I am dead I
shall only love you more ; my love for you
has become part of my very soul.'

May darling I and yet '

Not in spite of it, but because of it,
Eustace, we must part. Darling, do not
break my heart; it is better so. This engagement
must not weigh down all the
vigour and promise of your life ; you must
forget it, you must put it away from you,
and begin life again. Your mother loves
you, and she grieves to see you sorrowful — -
better one great sorrow like this than lifelong
pain.'

Pain ! what pain % My love for you has
been all happiness.'

11—2

Marion gently shook her head ; the large
tears were rolling; clown her cheeks.

It has been very hopeless, darling,' she
said.

He covered his face with his hands.

^ I have thought it so at times — may
Heaven forgive me !' he said. ' But now,
May, you are teaching me that such hopelessness
was happiness in comparison with
the torture you are giving me at this
moment.'

She could not bear it ; she turned away,
shaken from head to foot with deep-drawn
sobs. She, who loved him so, to inflict this
suffering 1 The thought rushed across her
of what Lord Austen had said. Eustace
had a right to judge. Might she give up
this self-sacrifice ? Might she go back to
the old state of things, throw herself
once more into his loving arms, and entreat
him to forgive her ? But Marion was very

strong ; her very love for him, which had
nerved her to this sacrifice, built up her
strength anew.

It was not over yet. Long and passionately
he pleaded. Then for the first time it
was, as it were, revealed to her how greatly
he had suffered, how the uncertainty and
suspense of their engagement had told upon
him. She saw it in the intensity of his love,
in the almost frantic pleading that she
would not take from him the small remnant
of happiness he yet possessed — that that, at
least, should be spared to him.

She could not have deemed it possible
that she could live through it and yet
remain firm and unyielding. She was
shaken from head to foot, deep sobs caught
her breath, her cold hands trembled in his
grasp ; but she was firm. She saw it now, she
understood that his mother was right ; and
while his pleading was at its very height

she was praying inwardly, with all the
power of her soul, for strength not to yield.
Then suddenly came over him a swift
and bitter change. He threw away her
hands ; his voice was low and harsh ; and
she shrank from him terrified.

^ I am beginning to understand at last,'
he said. ' I can no Ion o'er believe in this
paltry plea of yours — all for my good ! I
have poured out my whole heart before you,
to show you that with your own hand you
spurn and cast away the love that would
have died for you ; that with your own hand
you destroy all hope, all joy, and all belief
in that false thing called " woman " !'

Eustace 1' she exclaimed wildly ; ' oh, do
not kill me !'

Kill you ? You do not know what you
are saying. What should kill you ? Surely
not my acquiescence in the wishes you have
so fully expressed ; not my consent to the

rupture of an engagement which it is evident
has become hateful in your eyes !'

Have pity !'

Pity !' He Laughed, a laugh so painful
that Marion shrank back, shivering from
head to foot. ' Marion, I have said all I
have to say. I have unmanned myself to
plead to you, as I should not have done ;
but I spoke to the woman whom I loved,
and who, heaven help me ! I believed in.
Had I known that she only existed in my
own imagination, I should have accepted
my dismissal more easily and troubled you
BO more.'

Marion looked at him dumbly. She
could not speak ; her wild eyes never left
his face. But he was merciless ; he had
suffered too much ; the strain had been
too great — he could no longer discern her
anguish.

I am going. May,' he said ; ' I will never

transgress again. Perhaps I too, in time,
shall learn to agree with you that this is
better. I have learnt a lesson to-day that
I can never forget in this world. I have
learnt the full depth of cruelty that can
only exist in the heart of a woman ; of one
who swore to me that she loved me — who
gave me a brief glimpse of a paradise on
earth ; so consummate in her beauty and
her false, false, false deceitfulness that I
thought her more than mortal woman, till
her own hand tore the veil from my foolish
eyes and revealed her as a heartless jilt !'

Eustace !'

But he did not hear the faint cry of pain
beyond endurance. He had left the room ;
he could bear no more. So he did not see
her blindly stretching out her hands for
help and support, and then slowly sinking
backwards to the ground in a merciful
unconsciousness.

HEN Marion opened her eyes, she
found herself on the sofa, Lord
Austen bending over her, her
father by her side.

At last !' exclaimed the latter. ' Dear
me, May ! what is the matter, that you
frightened me so ? I cannot stand these
melodramatic performances ; they are too
much for my nerves !'

Marion moved faintly ; the life had
hardly yet returned to her.

Drink this, dear,' said Lord Austen
tenderly, giving her some water. * There,

you are better now ;' and he sprinkled some
eau-de-cologne on her brow.

If you are going to be subject to ,
I don't know what we shall do,' said
Mr. Austen peevishly. ' It will be quite intolerable.
There, now you look better. Dear
me ! what an uncomfortable morning —
such a break in upon one's quiet comfortable
habits ! You are not going, Austen 'f

No, I am not going yet,' he answered
quietly. ' I want to see May recovered
first.'

She sat up then, and put back her hair,
looking round her with a bewildered look.

Is Eustace gone ?' she said, in a voice
which sounded far off.

Gone ? I should think he was !' exclaimed
Mr. Austen. ' He never even came
in to say good-bye, but went off down the
stairs and out of the house before there was
time to move. And I particularly wanted to

speak to him about that madeira Lady
Bellingham so strongly recommended to me ;
but I have no doubt he will soon come
back.'

He will not come back,' said Marion ;
he will never come back. We have broken
off our engagement.'

Broken it off ? I am delighted to hear
it ! My dear child, I congratulate you ! I
never was so much pleased. Austen —
Austen, do you hear ?'

But Lord Austen had walked away to
the window ; he could not bear to see May's
face.

What is it ?' he said shortly.

Marion's en2fao:ement is broken off. Do
you hear ? Dear me ! few thing-s would
have given me greater pleasure. My dear
child, I did not think you had so much
commonsense.'

I think after this fainting,' said Lord

Austen, coming back abruptly, * that May
ought to go to her room and lie down for
the rest of the morning.'

She can lie down some other time,' said
Mr. Austen. 'Now we always take our
morning drive out to Hampstead or High-gate.
I cannot do without May now.'

I will drive with you this morning,' said
Lord Austen. ' I have nothing to do, and
shall enjoy it.'

You are very kind,' said Mr. Austen.
Any other day I should be delighted, but
I could not change my plans after so uncomfortable
a mornings. I look to the drive

o

to restore my nerves to tranquillity. Marion
is best for that ; she will not speak — I need
not pay any attention to her.'

I will be as silent as Marion,' said Lord
Austen, smiling. * You shall not know the
difference.'

You are very good, but it is impossible

any other day. May, my child, ring for
my coat ; we ought to be starting.'

Lord Austen, in his indignation, was
about to make another attempt ; but Marion,
raising herself with some difficulty, put her
hand on his arm. ' I can go,' she said
softly. The pathos in her face brought the
tears suddenly to his eyes, and he turned
away hastily.

It was evident that her father would not
spare her. He bit his lips when he thought
of it, feeling his own inability to help, and
wondering; in his heart how Eustace had
behaved.

If it had been I,' he said to himself, ' I
would never have yielded. I would have
held her to her word, in spite of anything
and everything that she could

say.'

But Lord Austen had never come in contact
with Marion's strength of will, and he

did not realize that her very suffering made
her strength greater.

The world is strangely distorted he said
to himself, as he stood in the hall, lighting
a cigar and watching the victoria drive away,
in which Marion and her father were starting
for their daily drive. ' Tie world is
altogether distorted and uncomfortable, and
there is no setting it to rights. Why can I
not hand over thirty thousand pounds out
of my abundance to that fine young fellow,
and enable them to marry ? Why cannot 1 ?
but such is the distortion of this conventional
world that I could as soon put a
pistol to his head and put him out of his
pain for ever. Heigh-ho !' and with a deep
sigh he walked away.

m EUSTACE BELLINGHAM,

when he left Manchester Square,
drove straight to the station,
and started on his journey home. He forgot
his luggage, he forgot his hotel-bill, and
he forgot to take his ticket. He arrived
only just in time to catch the express — in
fact, it was already beginning to move out
of the station, when, in spite of a furious
shout from a porter, he managed to scramble
in, his one idea to go on, on, away from
London.

In his hasty entrance he had not perceived

his fellow-travellers, or he would probably
have chosen another compartment.

He was startled when a large basket just
under his feet showed signs of life, and
emitted a loud and very plaintive mew. It
made him draw up his legs hastily and lookup.
Just in front of him sat Mrs. Brown-clifford,
looking so like a great white cat in
person that, even in the soreness and misery
of his heart, the absurd fancy crossed his
mind that it was she herself who had
mewed, and was now producing that loud
purring which seemed to vibrate on the air.

He took off his hat to her, and she bowed
with a little difficulty, for wedged in beside
her was another basket, which also had
within it an uneasy movement as of life.

The train was very full — there was not
one vacant seat.

I hope my cat is not in your way,' she
said suddenly.

He was obliged to make a polite disclaimer,
though the basket was literally
under his feet. A very irascible old gentleman
on the seat next to him was not so
patient.

There is hardly sufficient space for
carrying about a menagerie in a first-class
carriage, ma'am,' he said grimly.

Mrs. Brown-Clifford only nodded.

^ I presume you have live-stock also in
that basket, ma'am, to judge by its unpleasant
appearance and smell ?'

'Cats never smell,' said Mrs. Brown-clifford.


Oh, indeed ! and if I may venture sofar
as to ask ' — with bitter sarcasm — ' how
many cats have you with you V

Nine in this basket — one in that.
Would you like to see them ? The old one
is so fierce that it is sometimes supposed to
be dangerous.'

VOL. I. 12

Not at all ! I beg— I entreat !' For
Mrs. Brown-clifford was beginning to unfasten
the handle of the basket.

I can manage her she said loftily.
But she has a habit of flying straight onto
people's heads and shoulders, especially if
they do not like her species. I always
take precautions, but I will relax them for
your benefit.'

*My good madam, I beg most particularly
that you will do no such thing. Why, the
woman won't listen ! Madam, I tell you I
hate cats — I abhor cats — I loathe cats ! Sir,
T beg you to interfere, and not allow a
dangerous animal to be let loose ujDon us ina
confined space like this !'

Eustace caught the very funny gleam in
Mrs. Brown-clifford's round eyes, and said
mildly :

By far the worst cases of hydrophobia
arise from the scratch of a cat ; in fact,

some doctors cauterize more freely for the
bite of a cat than of a dog.'

I believe it is a conspiracy !' said the
old gentleman, turning purple. * Sir, I
must request — I must insist, that you do
not allow this public nuisance !'

Mrs. Brown Clifford quietly tied up the
basket again.

Just as you please,' she said tranquilly.

At the very next station the old gentleman
got out hastily, with the intention
of finding another place ; the train only
stopped for half a minute, the consequence
being that he was left behind, gesticulating
and foaming with impotent rage on the
platform.

Eustace leant back in his corner of the
carriage, and tried to calm the passionate
miserable trouble of his soul. He felt as
if his head were whirling ; the words he
had used in his sharp pain kept surging up

12—2

and down in his mind. The time would
come when he would repent having so
spoken to Marion with bitter regret, but
not yet ; the anger burnt fiercely within
him, and he was chiefly conscious of an
intense sense of ill-usage that was almost
unbearable. His excited fancy conjured up
all sorts of false ideas : his mother's cold
assurance that there was every probability
of Marion's marriage with Lord Austen
came into his mind ; he fancied that he
could read the motive of her conduct. His
faith in Marion had been so absolute that,
when it gave way, his distrust was proportionately
great — it was as if the ground
crumbled beneath his feet ; as if all sense
of security, all rest, all trust had collapsed.

The train was going at a tremendous
pace — the fields and trees and hedgerows
flew past the window ; he looked out,
watching them till his head and eyes ached

dizzily, and he turned inwards. Opposite
to him he saw his neighbour's eyes fixed
upon him with a concentrated gaze either
of interest or curiosity. She looked away
when their eyes met; but the look fidgeted
his owen over-wrought nerves, and made
him fancy all sorts of uncomfortable things
that she was watching him, that she had
magnetic power like her own cat.

Presently she opened a travelling-bag
and offered him a Times, He accepted it
eagerly, and at once plunged into its contents.
He had held it some minutes before
he found out that his eyes were resting on
the advertisement sheet, and that he was
conning over and over again the longings
conveyed in its columns for a cook, a
thorough good cook, a good plain cook, a
first-rate cook — everybody wanting cooks.
His eyes fell on the agony column. There
was an advertisement there he had seen so

often that he generally glanced to see if it
was there. It chimed in with his feelings
to-day. It was simply this :

Come back, George,' and signed ' Ellie.'
To-day there was a tiny variation — very
little, only do in italics — so that it ran
thus :

Bo come back, George I — Ellie.'
Poor Ellie ! What was the history of it ?
Was it a thieves' advertisement, alluding to
some mysterious game in which the cunning
ones of the earth were engaged ? or was it
what he imagined it to be, a nagging tiresome
little wife, whose husband's patience
had given way and caused him to leave her,
now finding out in indescribable agony that
she could not live without him ?

She should have thought of that before,'
he said to himself harshly. Then his eye
fell again on the advertisement, and he saw
that it was repeated several times. Ellie

was growing desperate ; that do was very
piteous.

He looked up. Yes, the round eyes were
looking at him again. It worried him, and
he plunged into the debates with a determination
to be interested, even though it
was only a very small and tedious Beer Bill
that was occupying all the time of her
Majesty's Parliament at the moment.

As station after station passed everyone
got out, and Mrs. Brown-clifford and
Eustace were left alone.

I am sure you like animals,' she said
suddenly. ' So I may release my cat, may
I not ?'

Oh, certainly,' he answered politely ;
and she took out of the basket a most
magnificent cat, a huge cat made twice its
natural size by the depth of its fur and the
ruff which encircled its face. It had none
of the ferocity which Mrs. Brown Clifford

had described ; on the contrary, it seemed
the gentlest of beings. It immediately took
possession of Eustace's knee, and lay there,
a great Angora muff.

He did not push it off; he was fond of all
animals, and he stroked this one very kindly,
and was pleased to hear it purr.

Mrs. Brown-clifford launched out into a
long history of her favourites, and explained
that she had been up to London to see the
great Cat Show and had come back much
mortified because her cat had not taken a
prize.

All because the hair growing between its
claws was not long enough. Such nonsense !
but there is a fashion in these things,' she
protested indignantly.

Eustace was growing very tired ; he had
not closed his eyes the previous night, and
had not touched breakfast that morning.
Mrs. Brown-Clifford's monotonous voice, the

soft warm weight of the huge cat, with the
soothing vibration of its deep purr, all combined
to produce in him a more and more
insurmountable drowsiness. The suffering
and pain he had undergone seemed to melt
into a kind of dull stupor, his companion's
voice became more distant, and at last,
leaning back in his corner, he fell into a
profound sleep.

Mrs. Brown-Clifford watched him, and a
kind, softened look came over her large face.
He looked so very tired, so worn ; he had
quite won her heart by his kindness to
her cat.

It would do,' she said to herself. ' It
would do perfectly well, only one must take
precautions.' Then she also settled herself
in her corner, and went to sleep.

And the train sped on ; the speed was
tremendous. It was a fast express ; the
carriages swayed lightly from side to side ;

the wind whistled past them ; station after
station was left behind. They were drawing
near their destination.

Suddenly something awakened the slumberers
with a violent start, and the terrible
instantaneous shock of the question, ' What
is happening ?' An awful shake as if every
limb must fly apart, as if no human brain
could bear it without destruction ; the most
extraordinary noises as of cannon going off
one after another, crash after crash ; shrieks ;
a vain catching at the cracking, tearing
woodwork ; then an absolute darkness and
insensibility — and all in one second of
time.

Not till long afterwards was it ascertained
how it had happened. There was
some obstruction on the rails ; the engine
went off the line, falling over a low embankment
; the carriages, bounding, leaping, tossing
from side to side, fell, telescopic each

other with frightful force, and lay in ruin
all over the field.

When Eustace Bellingham again opened
his eyes, it was to the thrilling consciousness
of some atrocious pain — a pain so acute
that he did not know where it was, for it
shot through him from head to foot ; and he
only recognised by actual sight that its
origin was in his foot, and that that was
wedged in a terribly twisted manner under
a mass of broken remains.

He looked round for his companion. The
carriage was lying on its side ; she had
already been dragged out unhurt, and was
now anxiously trying to get some one to
help her to rescue him. But he did not
know this. A frightful noise was in his
head ; the pain was raging ; shrieks on all
sides rent the air at short intervals ; the
overturned engine was hissing and roaring.

He felt a sensation of suffocation, and

then perceived that the big cat, which had
been scared and terrified beyond measure,
had crept back and settled herself on his
breast. Even in the half-consciousness of
his condition, a flash of gladness came over
him that the cat had not been hurt — a gladness
altogether out of proportion to the fact.
Then he had to set his teeth hard and exercise
all his self-control to keep back the
moans which would try to force their way.

He swooned again from pain, and how
long he remained so he never knew ; for
when he again unclosed his eyes he was
lying outside in a field of long grass, a soft
breeze was playing round him, some one was
forcing a few drops of some very hot suffocating
fluid down his throat, and the whole
air was filled with a vibrating whirr of sound
which surely could not be only the cat.

He recognised Mrs. Brown-clifford bending
anxiously over him.

'What is if?' he muttered, making an
effort to steady his brain and recover proportion
both in his hearing and seeing.

We have had a railway accident,' she
said. The sound of her voice was absolute
agony to him. ' You have been hurt ; you
will be all right soon ; it is only your foot.
The doctor has seen it.'

The doctor V

Yes ; it will get all right with a little
patience.'

Have we been here long f

About two hours.'

That was so bewildering: a thought that
he was obliged to shut his eyes. Whether
he lost consciousness again or not he did
not know, but voices were murmuring over
him, a consultation being held, and at last
some people came and began to lift him
up. The cruel pain brought back his senses.

The scene was a busy and very terrible

one. There were still forms lying rigidly in
the long grass that would never wake up
again ; there where wounded and maimed
people, and some whom the shock had
dazed in a way that they would feel to their
life's end. And far away at the end of
the train lay the poor engine-driver just
breathing — no more — scalded to death, and
the kind doctor doing his utmost to keep
him alive just for a few minutes that he
might send a message to his wife.

You think that Eustace will come
back by the four-ten train ashe
has not come by the express,
mamma V said Mrs. Austen. ' If so, I will
have the Shetlands, and go and meet him.'

*It is not the least likely,' said Alice
hastily. ' He would not get away so early
from London. Come, Gerty, if you want to
sing, here is the little French song I told
you about. Will you try if?'

You need not go and meet him, Gerty,'
said Lady Bellingham. 'He will walk w.^.
I wonder what all those people thought of

him last night. I don't think Lady Raymond
believed my excuses ; she looked as if she
did not.'

People never do believe excuses,' said
Gerty, 'and I thought Uncle Charles exerted
himself in making them a great deal
more than was at all necessary. Now, Alice
no, no — transpose it; I can't sing up in
the clouds. Put it into A; that is better.'

]airs. Austen bcQ-an to sino; :

'Maimed-tu, ma belle bergere,

Nenni, nenni !
Dis moi done, ma belle, ma chere,

Oh nenni non !
Je traite, ma belle mignonne,

Merci, merci !
Je traite, ma chere, ma bonne,

Oh merci bien !
Spouse-moi, ma douce bergere,

Nenni, nenni !
Dis done oui, ma belle, ma chere,

Oh nenni non !
Adieu done, car je te quitte ;

aston non ! non non !
Je men vais vite, bergere, bien vite !

Oh nenni non !*

A stupid little song !' said Gerty impatiently.
' I don't like the accompaniment ;
the piano is out of tunc.'

All the world is out of tune,' said
Georgie, looking up from her wood-carving.


'I knew a woman,' said Gerty, Svo
kept a cracked green teacup on a shelf.
Whenever any one of her numerous children
hinted at lowness of spirits she got it down,
poured into it a decoction of rhubarb and
senna, and while telling them that she
would soon raise their spirits, poured it
down their throats.'

Was the family a cheerful one ?'

A radiant one ; always in even, generally
in brilliant spirits.'

Shall we try the receipt on Muriel "?'

Ah, dear little soul ! she is always
happy. I want it most. I don't know
why, but I wish Eustace had come back.'

VOL. I. 13

What a fuss you all make about Eustace !'
said Lady Bellingham.

We are all unhappy about him, you
see, mamma,' said Gerty boldly. ' Weare
all fretting our very hearts out about
him.'

Well, I hope you will never know the
difference between real and fictitious
miseries.'

Gerty began to speak, then stopped herself
abruptly.

^ Don't dance about like that, Gerty ; one
would think that you had St. Vitus's dance,'
said Georgie.

How cross we all are !' exclaimed Alice.
Come, Gerty, you really are dancing in an
unaccountable way.'

I am practising the Schottische steps.
It is a receipt of Tom's. He recommended
me to do it long ago, when I used to get
into fevers of impatience over trifles. It

was a very good idea. I adopted it, and
have never given it up.'

Does lie mind 1'

Not he ; lie goes on with whatever he
is doing; until I have finished ; but he is
generally at my service by the time we
reach the '' Houlakin." '

That accounts for the way in which
Muriel dances Highland steps.'

Imitation. Oh, Alice, I wish Eustace
would come ! I think I shall go out
and walk towards the station. Come with
me.'

You will find it excessively hot,'
said Lady Bellingham. ' You had much
better take a book, and stay quietly at
home.'

But Gerty was already out of the window,
fastening on her hat.

*• Are you going, Alice 1' said Georgie
lazily.

Oh yes ; when Gerty is in one of these
Liberty-gibbet moods it is as well not to
lose sight of her.'

She joined her sister, and they walked
away together. Gerty had grown grave.
As they gained the shelter of the avenue,
and were in a cooler place, she began to
speak suddenly :

'You must think me very restless, Alice,
but I am so unhappy. I cannot divest
myself of the feeling of responsibility. If
1 had only had my wits about me, I should
have seen that Eustace would fall in love
with May. I should have seen that in a
rivalry my poor Austen would have had no
chance. If I had only thought a little

more !'

You never do think before you act,' said
Alice.'

There is nothing; like a sister for telling
one home-truths !' said Gerty, laughing a

little. * I think I wanted to be petted and
told it was not my fault

Then you should not come to me,' said
Alice, her eyes filling with tears. ' It has
blighted his whole life.'

Gerty walked on, feeling very unhappy.
Presently she looked at her watch.

What time is the train due V she said.

At half-past three.'

Then if Eustace came by it, we ought to
meet him soon. See, who is that coming ?'

They were both startled, for some one was
coming towards them, running at a very
rapid pace.

^ Impossible !' exclaimed Alice. ' It looks
like Kitty Brown Clifford !'

Yes, it is she. What can be the matter ?
How wonderfully fast she runs !' exclaimed
Gerty, and leaving Alice she ran forward to
meet her.

Kitty, when she saw her, stopped short,

caught hold of her hand, and tried to get
back her breath.

What is it, Miss ClifFord ? Kitty, what
has happened V

An — an accident. The train '

The express I Is anyone hurt ? was my
brother in if? Oh, do speak I' and she
coukl not help shaking Kitty.

Yes, hurt. No, no ! not killed. I— I

can't ' And the catching of her breath

was so great that she was obliged to sit
down on the grass, and her hearers had to
curb their agony of impatience until she
could speak. At last the words came in
gasps :

'A man on horseback came from Gran-than
— there has been an accident — the
train went off the line — mamma — Sir
Eustace '

Oh, is he hurt ?' cried Alice, in terror.

His foot — crushed ! no, no ! that is all f

lie exclaimed, frightened by Alice's look.
Only his foot ; but they were bringing him
home, and he fainted ; and Dr. West would
not let them bring him farther than the
AVhite House. He is in our house now, and
I ran on to tell you.'

Oh, thank you, thank you !' cried Gerty.
You are sure it is not worse ?'

They say not said Kitty ; ' but oh, he
looks as if he were dead !'

Alice had begun to walk rapidly on.
Gerty stopped her.

Alice, wait she said. * Some one must
go and tell mamma.'

*I cannot said Alice; ' I, must go to
Eustace at once.'

Shall I go to Lady Bellingham V said
Kitty bravely, though her heart sank at the
very idea. ' I will go on if you think I
can be useful ; you must be longing to get
to him.'

Will you really V said Gerty, lingering,
as Alice went on rapidly without waiting.
It is very dear of you.'

Oil yes ! I will do what I can ; don't
let me keep you,' she said, rising to her feet.

Her heart was beating violently ; but one
of the characteristics of Kitty Brown-clifford's
nature was that she never shrank from
a duty, whatever pain to herself it might
involve.

Gerty ran on after her sister. She
found her in a fever of impatience.

They ought to have brought him home,'
she said. ' Fancy his being laid up at the
Clifford' house ! What could Dr. West have
been dreaming of ?'

When they reached the gates of the
White House the doctor was just getting
into his carriage.

Don't keep me a moment, Miss Bellingham
r he exclaimed. * Your brother will do

all right ; he could not be in better hands.
If anyone but a woman like that Mrs Clifford
had had to do with him, he must have
lost his foot. Dear ! dear ! what an accident !
thirty lives lost ! I have given all my
directions. I shall be back when I can get

o

away ;' and he drove off at a rapid pace.

Alice and Gerty went into the house in
rather a forlorn way, not knowing where to
go. Presently Mrs. Clifford's maid came
running down to say, would they go up ?
and they found the good lady in a dressing-room.


Alice could not help shuddering. Mrs.
Brown-Clifford had not had time to change
her dress or do anything but attend to the
patient. She sank down in a chair as Alice
and Gerty came in, and drank a glass of
water.

I thought you would not mind coming
up to save my going down,' she said.

'Your brother will be more comfortable
soon, for Dr. West has dressed his foot ; but
he is not conscious.'

Alice felt her strength failing. * Is it
Avery bad ?' she faltered.

*Sit down, my dear said Mrs. Brown-clifford,
pushing a chair towards her. ' Yes,
it is bad, but I have seen worse. Both Matty
and I understand nursing ; he is in good
hands. I hope you will be satisfied as to
that.'

The doctor says you have saved his foot
said Gerty gratefully.

^ We shall see, we shall see. Now, I cannot
stay dawdling here. What do you
think of doing ? looking rather dubiously at
them. ' I think he will want experienced
nursing at first.'

Only let us be useful I' cried Alice
earnestly.

Then stay here, and do as you are told

said Mrs. Clifford. 'I will order your
rooms, but he must be kept absolutely
quiet.'

We will do just as you tell us.'

Very well. Matty is with him now'

May I not just see him '?' said Alice
piteously.

Mrs. Brown-clifford put her finger to her
lip, and quietly opened the door into her own
large bedroom in which Eustace lay. Alice
went forward and stood by his bed. He
was perfectly insensible, and her heart died
within her ; she grew so white that Mrs.
Brown-clifford drew her hastily back aud
shut the door.

^ Look after her,' she said to Gerty ;
and I will let you know when you can be
of use. I must go and change my things
now. Will you go downstairs V

Oh, thank you,' said Gerty, doing as
she was told. There was nothing to be

Areca Unions.

done but to wait, with a feeling of envy in
their hearts of the two good experienced
women who were doing all that could be
done for their beloved brother upstairs.

HERE am I V

The first and most natural
question of returning reason.
Oh, Eustace darling, you are better !'
It was his sister Gerty's A^oiee, and it
seemed so sweet and familiar to him, as he
emerged from that strange dim world of
unreal shadows in which he had been lying
for several days, that the tears rushed to
his eyes.

You must not talk, darling,' she said,
bending: over to kiss him. ' You must be
content to rest.'

But lie was not satisfied ; he glanced
round the unfamiliar room with a misgiving
that even yet all was not quite real.

Gerty saw it, and understood. ' It is all
right, Eu,' she said soothingly. ' You arc
in Mrs. Brown-Clifford's house. This is our
good, kind, dear Begum's own bedroom, and
she is just a trump.'

It was enough to take in at the moment.
Gerty 's heart was very full as she went
downstairs to tell Alice that their beloved
brother was better, was sensible at last. It
had been a long terror. Dr. "West had
spoken anxiously of the frightful force of
the nervous shock that he must have
sustained, and that gave him more anxiety
than the wounded foot. .Alice went upstairs
to relieve her sister. They took it in
turns to watch now, and ]Mrs. Austen went
into the drawing-room to tell Mrs. Brown-clifford.


Kitty came forward to meet her very
eagerly. * Your face looks like better news,
Mrs. Austen !' she exclaimed.

Then my face for once tells the truth,'
said Gerty, putting her hands on her
shoulders and kissing her warmly.

Kitty blushed scarlet with pleasure, and
her blue eyes shone as Mrs. Austen went on :

I don't know how we are ever to be
grateful enough for all you have done. We
owe you more than we can say, Mrs.
Clifford.'

Gerty was kneeling beside her chair now,
taking her knitting out of her two fat
hands, and holding them tight in both hers.

*Dr. West thinks that he will not be
in the least lame ; and now that he is himself
again, I think he will soon be well.
How can we ever thank you enough !'

Then,' said Mrs. Brown-Clifford placidly,
Lady Bellingham will forgive me now.'

She will be as grateful as I am,' said
Gerty, ' and that is beyond all words. Now,
please explain. Is this house enchanted %
Is your cat a princess in disguise, or what
clue can you give me to the extraordinary
nature of those ravings in which my poor
Eustace has been indulging ?'

Yes, it was very remarkable how cats
were mixed up in them,' said Mrs. Brown-clifford.
* My poor cat has not yet recovered
her nerve ; she starts and spits if
you only look at her, and even now her
coat is always on end.'

Was she in the scene of the accident
?'

Indeed she was, and only partially recovered
her senses enough to rush on to
your brother's chest and keep there. I
also ' (and she lowered her voice) ' had with
me a basket containing nine kittens, for
which I had paid two guineas each — such

beauties ! all pedi greed. They were all
annihilated at one blow.'

How horrible ! how was it V

Squashed,' said Mrs. Brown Clifford
solemnly ; ' I never can understand how I
escaped their fate !'

Kitty interrupted. ' Did he talk about
mamma s cat ?' she said with interest.

Cats ! nothing; but cats. He declared
he was bowling to a cat for some time,
then that the engine was purring ; and he
laughed and talked about hydrophobia till
I began to wonder whether I had ever been
written or scratched by a cat in my life.
And all the time your big Angora, Mrs.
Clifford, insisted upon being in his room, and
whenever my back was turned sprang upon
his bed with a most touching persistency.'

Magnetism — she knows perfectly that
he was kind to her. Kitty, fetch me that
treatise on cats from the library. I should

VOL. I. 14

like to enlighten you a little on their
magnetic qualities, Mrs. Austen, when you
have time.'

I should like it of all things,' said Gerty
hastily ; ' but indeed, at this moment I have
no time, and I must go, dear Mrs. Clifford.
I promised to get back for luncheon, and I
want to stood a moment at the Eectory just
to give the last good report to my cousin
Gwendoline. Good-bye, Kitty. No, don't
come to the door.'

But Kitty followed her, and stopped her
in the hall for one moment, saying wistfully,
*And you really think him better *?'

Indeed I know it ; he will soon be a
different creature.'

I am so very very glad.'

You are a dear little body,' said Gerty
brightly, as she went on her way.

Before many days had passed Eustace
was able to be carried into another room

arranged as a sitting-room for him — promoted
to a sofa-life and visitors. His foot
had been so severely crushed and twisted
that complete cure depended entirely on his
submission to absolute rest. It would probably
be a long time before he was allowed
to walk, but meanwhile he bore his confinement
to the sofa more philosophically
than might have been expected. He was
exacting on the score of visitors. His
sisters were his devoted slaves. Mrs. Brown-clifford
would toil upstairs daily, bringing
her cats with her, to sit and knit in his
room. Aunt Matty alternately scolded and
petted him. Kitty watched his smallest
wish with timid anxiety, forestalling his
wishes; never was wounded hero more spoilt.
Eustace's natural instinct being to wait
upon other people, at first it was a little
irksome to him ; but he grew accustomed toit.
Perhaps the total change and break in

14—2

his ordinary life was good for him, and the
sharp physical suffering he was called upon
to bear. They diverted his thoughts from
the absorbing contemplation of his own
sorrow and disappointment, and changed
their current. He was a very grateful
invalid, so much so that one day Gerty felt
obliged to say to him :

My dear Eustace, once for all — after
which we will leave the subject — if you persist
in wasting such overpowering gratitude
on us merely for such trifles as giving you a
cup of tea, and then perceiving that you
cannot swallow it because we have forgotten
the sugar, we shall for very shame be forced
to unmask and declare the truth, that we
don't do it for your sake, or because we like
to please you, but simply and entirely because,
in the egregious vanity of the creature female,
we like to pose as ministering angels not in
our *' hours of case." Do you see V

Do you agree, Miss Matty "?' said
Eustace.

Here, take the cat,' she answered irrelevantly,
throwing it on to his lap. ' It makes
me creep.'

By all means give it to me ; it likes me.'

Take care, Eu,' said Alice. ' If it is an
enchanted princess you will have to cut off
her head.'

A very repulsive notion,' said Eustace.
Poor old puss r

Could you cut off any thing's head V said
Kitty.

Of course,' said Miss Matty. ' Where's
the difficulty V

ml

Nobody was able to answer that question.

Conversation was apt to be curiously
fragmentary in Eustace's sick-room ; everyone
followed their own thoughts, and spoke
them when it suited them. It had a funny
effect, which amused Eustace greatly.

Kitty, sit upright, my love

Yes, mamma.

'I should rebell, Miss ClifFord; said
Eustace. * You are of an age now to stoop
when you like.'

Oh no said Kitty hurriedly.

Mrs. Clifford, when may one begin to
loll about, and put one's elbows on the
table, and stoop with impunity '^' he went
on.

It depends on the figure,' she answered ;
whether a person is tall and strong and
handsome, or '

Or little and strong and pretty,' said
Gerty gaily.

Rebels are shot, and mutineers are
hanged,' said Aunt Matty.

You are in a most murderous mood.
AVill you be executioner, Aunt Matty V said
Eustace, who had adopted the friendly
name. ' Would you have the heart ?'

It is not heart that is wanted ; it is
nerve, and of that I have plenty. Yes, I
should not scruple.'

You would pull the cord, knowing it
was round little Kitty's soft white neck?'
said Gerty, with pretended horror.

'Discipline must be maintained.'

But this is not a question of discipline, but
of physical strength of nerve,' said Eustace.
Oh] dear ! what a distressing sight !' and
he suddenly bent down over the tablecloth.


What is it 1'

A huge bluebottle fly,' he answered,
shading it with his hands. ' It has burnt
off both its wings, and is in mortal agony.
It must be killed by some member of the
Humane Society. Come, Miss Matty, here
is your chance.'

Miss Matty shook her gray curls.
' I hate bluebottles,' she said.

Ah, but that is not the question. So do
I hate bluebottles, but I cannot be expected
to kill this one ; it is so very large and fat,
and my nerves are weakened by confinement
to the sofa. So I must call upon you
to be executioner.'

I shan't,' said Miss Matty.

But listen to its agonies,' said Eustace,
bending over his hands, from whence a
buzzing noise proceeded.

Miss Matty was quite pale.

Let us ring' to have it killed. Don't

o

prolong its torture,' she said eagerly.

It wished to burst the boundaries of its
social position,' said Eustace ; ' it desired to
become initiated into the mysteries of the
world of light and fire — it must die !'

Discipline must be maintained,' said
Gerty, trying not to laugh and betray the
fact that the bluebottle was a myth.

Therefore, Aunt Matty, I call upon you

to can out your principles,' said Eustace
solemnly.

Little Kitty, who was very literal and
quite unaccustomed to any kind of fun,
came forward with a look of firm determination
on her pale little face.

'Aunt Matty could never do it,' she
said ; ' but I will. Give it to me, Sir
Eustace ; it must not be allowed to suffer.'

Eustace looked at her with a little touch
of admiration. He took away his hands.

It only exists in imagination,' he said ;
I wanted to test your aunt's much vaunted
killing powers.'

I draw the line at bluebottles,' said
Gerty, laughing. ' It was said of Dean
Auckland that the only thing in nature
that he could not eat was a bluebottle fly.'

Kitty had withdrawn to a far-away chair,
blushing furiously — she was so ashamed of
not having understood, of having wasted

the determination and self-control she had
summoned to her aid before making her
heroic offer. It was a trifle to make her
so uncomfortable ; but Kitty's life was
made up of trifles.

She is a plucky little soul !' said Sir
Eustace to Gerty when they were alone a
little later. ' She was as white as a sheet,
but she would have done the deed.'

You like her?' said Mrs. Austen suddenly.

Like her ? yes ' — with a yawn — ' I
shoi:(ld be very ungrateful if I did not.
She is a peaceful kind of little person — no
stormy elements in her composition.'

Gerty thought of Kitty's sensitive little
f?xce, the pink colour coming and going, the
quiver of eyelid, the eager watchfulness to
undertake any little helpful office, any
tender little service ; and she thought to
herself, ' How blind people are !'

Don't be too sure of that,' she said.

'You think there might be a storm in
that tea-cup V

I don't know about a storm, but I think
still waters run deepest.'

I hate depths,' said Eustace. ' For
goodness' sake let me live on the surface,
and let all fine feelings and balderdash go
by. I am sick of sentiment.'

I always did hate sentiment,' said Gerty
quietly.

And I prefer Werther's Charlotte to
Romeo's Juliet.'

No, no ; release me from the snell of
head and butter !'

Then what do you want V

Gerty was sorry when she had said it,
for she saw her brother wince sharply ; but
she was not very patient by nature, and
Eustace's bitter moods provoked her in
spite of her pity for him. She fancied that
they were increasing, becoming more frequent

; time and illness had produced
outward resignation and revival of spirits,
but had brought with them some of the
bitter cynicism which waits ready to seize
on every suffering disappointed heart —
ready, like the cruel demon that it is, to
enter in and dwell there.

Does your foot ache, darling V she exclaimed,
her voice changing to tenderness.

'Not more than usual,' he answered
wearily ; and she rearranged his sofa, saying
no more.

USTACE's foot grew better faster
than the doctor had expected,
and he was able to return to
Castleford. He learnt the use of a crutch
very quickly, and could soon go about independently
and attend to all his business.

He was almost sorry to return home.
He had become quite fond of the Brown-clifford,
and his return to the ordinary
duties of life betrayed to him how greatly
the accident had shaken his nerves. Business
was a great exertion to him, and he
shrank from all allusion to his troubles.

Lady Bellingham was longing, pining to
talk to him, to hear from him what Marion
had said, and the exact position in which
they now stood ; but she was obliged to put
itofF.

Mrs. Austen, before her return to London,
impressed upon her so strongly the doctor's
injunction that Eustace must not be worried,
and his opinion that owing to some cause,
not wholly attributable to the railway
accident, he had only just escaped a
dangerous brain fever, that she dared not
disobey ; and for some time Eustace was
spared, and was secretly most grateful for
the reprieve.

But the summer days were drawing to a
close, and Eustace began to make autumn
plans. Lady Bellingham could not make up
her mind to put off the explanation longer.

She came out into the hall, and met him
just as he had dismissed the low basket-chair

and the Shetland ponies which his
lameness made him use constantly.

The girls are out on the terrace,' she said.

Come in here, Eu ; I want to talk to you.'

I cannot come now, mother,' he said.

I must put the dogs away ; they are too
boisterous. I met that little Brown Clifford
girl just coming up to the door as I did,
and they all rushed out to meet me with
such a clamour of welcome that they nearly
frig-tenet her out of her wits.'

'Oh, never mind the dogs!' said his mother
impatiently. * Call them in here ; they will
lie down quietly enough.'

Sir Eustace saw that the time was come,
and he knew that it must be got over ; it
was of no use putting it off any longer, and
he obeyed.

Lady Bellingham sat down, and looked at
him very anxiously.

Well V she said. ' Tell me, Eustace.'

What do you want to know, mother ?
I suppose you are anxious about the success
of your plan ?'

Don't speak like that, Eustace !' she said
irritably. ' It was no plan of mine. I want
to know what May said.'

May showed herself a more apt pupil
than I could have imagined possible,' he
answered. ' She followed suit in every particular
; her ideas were as well matured as
your own.'

I always knew that there was no one
like her T exclaimed Lady Bellingham. ' You
see, besides her extraordinary beauty, she is
gifted with rare common-sense.'

Mercifully, such common-sense is rare,'
said Sir Eustace. ' It is a negative subject
for thanksgiving.'

Lady Bellingham turned to him impulsively.


Of course, I know you must suffer pain

HOW, my boy she said. * That is inevitable
; but you will live to be thankful that
you did not sacrifice all the material advantages
of life to a mere sentiment.'

The less we say about it the better,' he
said shortly. ' You must not expect gratitude
from me, mother ; nor must Marion
expect it. Illusions may be very undesirable
— I have no doubt that from your
common-sense point of view that they are —
but you can hardly expect the victim to be
grateful to the hand that tears the veil from
his eyes.'

I do not enter into transcendental feelings
and ideas,' said Lady Bellingham composedly.
' My duty, as your mother, is to
see that your substantial welfare is secured.'

Be content, mother ; you have succeeded
admirably said Sir Eustace.

And what are you going to do ?' said his
mother, an uneasy misgiving taking posses-vol.

I. 15

sion of her. She did not understand his tone,
and thought within herself that Eustace
was taking it all very disagreeably indeed.

Do ? I am o^oino; to have some tea.'

He was very thirsty, and thought
enviously of the tea under the trees.

You know that that is not what I
mean. I mean, what are you going to do
next ?'

I am going up to Tom Austen's moor
for the twelfth,' he ans were impatiently.
That is next Thursday. Of course I
can't shoot, but Gerty's parties are pleasant.
Between that and now there is a good deal
here to be got through. Does that not satisfy
you, mother ?'

She could not let him alone ; something in
his face, in his manner, frightened her
vaguely.

My dear Eustace,' she said, coming upto
him, ' let me speak plainly to you. Men

who are disappointed and think themselves
ill-used so often go to the bad.'

You should have thought of that before
he said with a short, bitter laugh. ' I
suppose, now, that you are afraid that I shall
rush up to London and drink myself into
delirium tremens by way of drowning my
griefs.'

You won't do anything foolish, Eu ?'

I won't do that, at all events,' he
answered. ' Don't be afraid. Your lessons in
common-sense have not been thrown away ;
I have profited by them largely. That is
not the way in which I am likely to be
wrecked.'

Wrecked ? what do you mean ? How
can you be wrecked now V

In faith, in hope, in trust in God or
man,' he answered.

Nonsense !' said Lady Bellingham tranquilly.
Those words represented nothing

15—2

to her mind but disappointed feeling ; she
was not in the least afraid of that sort of
thing. ' Go and have some tea now she
said, setting herself back in her chair ; ' and
if you like to come and tell me all about it
later, you will find me in my dressing-room.


He whistled to the dogs and went out onto
the terrace, where his sisters and Kitty
Brown-clifford were sitting under the trees
with a tea-table.

Alice rose up to meet him as he approached.
She put her hand gently on his
arm, kissing him lovingly. The touch of
sympathy was comfortable to him ; he sat
down beside her, and some of the strained,
hard look passed out of his eyes.

Little Kitty hardly ever spoke when he
was present ; but during his illness she had
acquired the habit of watching him unknown
to himself, and his looks disturbed her.

When lie rose and pnt clown her cup, it
was the commonplace action of any gentleman
; but Kitty viewed it with disproportionate
gratitude. She was tormented with
self-consciousness, painfully shy and diffident,
the result of the harem-like seclusion
in which she had been brought up ; and he
was so cool, so quiet and handsome, in spite
of the expression on his face which conveyed
to her an almost exaggerated impression of
strain and suppressed suffering. She was
always wondering what was the matter,
what had happened to make him look like
that, and whether it would pass away.

The little party broke up. Georgia
went towards the house, occupied by her
own thoughts. Eustace also went his own
way. Alice put her hand through Kitty's
arm, and led her in the direction of the
garden.

The air grew more sultry and close.

It is too hot to go indoors, Kitty,' said
Alice. ' Quite at the end of the garden
there is a delicious little sheltered place
under some big chestnut-trees where vc
have our hammocks hung ; let us go
there.'

Do you like a hammock ?' said Kitty.
I don't like having my gown crumpled. *

*No ; you always look as if you had just
been lightly taken out of a bandbox,' said
Alice, smiling. ' But we are not obliged to
get into the hammocks.'

It was a pretty place ; the chestnut-trees
hung over a stone basin in which a single
jet of water played, making a pleasant tinkle
in the air. The two girls sat under the
trees.

They were silent for a few moments ; the
air was heavy and sultry, and both were
thinking.

Presently Kitty said very timidly :

Alice, I do not think your brother looks
quite so well as he did. You will not mind
my asking V

Alice did mind it a little. She was, in her
secret heart of hearts, a little jealous of the
long; nursing which had given the White
House a sort of claim on her brother ; but
she fought against the ferdinand answered :

He wants change of air and scene. I
think everyone does when convalescent from
a bad illness.'

Yes,' said Kitty thoughtfully.

She did not like to ask more, for a very
slight indication in Alice's manner betrayed
her feeling to a nature possessing unusually
sensitive intuition.

Presently she spoke again.

Alice, do you ever see that beautiful Miss
Austen now V

Do you know May Austen V exclaimed
Alice quickly. * Where have you met her V

In London. Lady Mary Duncan used
to have ladies twice a week daring the war
to make charpie and bandages. Mamma
and I used to go. I saw Miss Austen often
there.'
' What did you think of her ?'

I thought her the most perfectly beautiful
and charming person I ever saw. She
is glorious. She was so kind to me ; we
were making shirts one day, and she let me
show her how to cut one out, and piece it
for her.'

She is charming,' said Alice, the tears
rushing; to her eves. 'Did you ever hear
her sing '?'

Yes ; one day somebody asked her, and
she sang as she sat there with her work in
her hands. She san' " We are tending; tonight
on the old camp-ground." Mrs.
Clifton and Lady St. John were sitting ^^J
me ; they both had sons and brothers with

the troops. Before slice laid finished they
were crviiio' so — iii fact we were all serving.'

1 know the extraordinary pathos in that
voice of hers.'

Mamma thought it was too theatrical
but to me it was like opening a door into
a new world — I never imagined one could
feel so — and the door has never quite shut,'
she added with a little sis^h.

• Poor May, poor May !' said Alice involuntarily.


'Why do you say "poor May?' said
Kitty wistfully. ' I never could imagine
anyone more enviable, to be so beautiful and
so good as that ; besides, she is engaged to
your brother, is she not ? How proud you
must be of them both ! He came to one of
those parties to fetch her away once. I saw
him in the distance ; he was bending down
to speak to her, and she looked up at
him — they were very happy. I don't think

reading any novels after that would tell me
anything; new. I could see that there is a
great happiness in love, and that it has
something very sacred in it, and would
make all life more great and more holy.
Don't you think so ?'

Alice bent down and kissed her ; the tears
were in her eyes.

Some things are too good to come to
pass,' she said with a deep sigh. ^ And that
was one of them.'

What ? oh, don't say that it is not to
be!'

I am afraid so,' said Alice, trying to
smile. 'The engagement is at an end.'

Kitty looked up at her; words of sympathy
rose to her lips, but she did not speak
them ; only she squeezed tightly the hand
that was nearest to her.

Presently Alice started.

What a heavy drop of rain !' she exclaimed.

* Oh dear, we Lad forgotten the
weather ! The storm will be upon us before
we get home.'

We must run as fast as we can,' said
Kitty. ' I am so afraid of lightning.'

The two skirts set off to run to the house.
Alice had taken it into her head that Kitty
could not run well, but she was mistaken.
Kitty ran like the wind, and outstripped her
companion. They had scarcely arrived before
the first blinding flash of lightning came,
followed almost instantly by thunder and a
violent downpour of heavy rain.

IR EUSTACE went to Scotland,
and the Bellingham were alone.
The autumn months passed ina
quiet monotony, and Lady Bellingham
and Georgina both grew very tired of their
tranquil life.

Mr. St. Aubyn came in one day and
found Lady Bellingham seated at her
writing-table surrounded with bills, and
with an exceedingly troubled expression on
her face.

What is the matter, Louisa V he said.
It is one of those nasty sort of days one

curly lias in England. Soaking rain, and
mud lip to one's knees ; but you used to
boast that you never were affected by
suevi trifles as bad weather. What is

itr

What is the matter ? why, everything is
the matter ! I sometimes think that I was
simply l>oi'n for misfortunes !' she exclaimed
pettishly.

Come, come ! you have had a fairly
comfortable life, taking it on a general
average,' said her brother lightly. 'Pecuniary
bothers, eh X

Oh dear ! how sick of it all I am !' she
exclaimed. ' Bills, bills, bills ! everlasting
bills. How on earth am I to pay them V

But I thought you had an enormous
jointure ; I remember at the time thinking
it very disproportionate to the income
arising from the estate.' ■ '

It was settled before the mortgages

were raised — but that is neither here nor
there. Georgie's hills are perfectly awful.
I cannot think what possesses her.'

Well, I imagine that you will not have
her at home much longer.'

I don't know. Mr. Mulroy is gone
away. She is an odd girl — there is no
telling what she may do. She thinks love
the greatest nonsense ; hut she will not
accept him unless she can thoroughly
respect his character. I don't understand
her altogether. I am so dull, too. I wish
Eustace would come back.'

It is much better for him to be with
his regiment ; what good would he do here ?'

At least, I should have some one to talk
to.'

I am quite willing to be your victim.
I am sure poor Eu has cares enough without
other people's.*

Poor Eu ! I have no patience with him.

When he might have fifteen thousand a
year for the asking !'

Mr. St. Aubyn made an impatient gesture.
Most deeply did he now repent having confided
that piece of information to his sister ;
she had seized upon it, and made it into onii
of her incessant tribulations.

I think it would be much wiser to let
Eustace paddle his own canoe,' he said
sharply. 'iVs for you, Louisa, I don't
wonder at your being uncomfortable. You
all look bored to death ; even Alice who
used to be a perfect sunbeam — Gwendoline
says she frets so over Marion and Eustace.'

Alice is very tiresome. I am convinced
that but for her support Eustace would
have been easier to manage ; he would have
found himself altogether without help or
sympathy.'

Meanwhile, why don't you all rouse
yourselves, and go abroad for the winter-the

very thing ; only I am afraid of the
expense

'Make it an economy, not an expense.'
How is that to be done ?'

I will tell you. It would be perfect
folly to go to an hotel at Florence or Rome,
or any such l)ig place ; you cannot possibly
afford it

You are so horribly unfeeling !' exclaimed
Lady Bellingham.

Nonsense, my dear ! What I recommend
is this — go to Santa Chiara/

^Horri])lcholer

Exquisite little paradise on earth, with
a theatre, the most divine cathedral, a
small gallery, beautiful country, and big
Italian palaces to be hired for an old song.'

That is a consideration. Where have
you heard about it ?'

*' An old friend of mine, Marie de Seasons,
married an Italian. Do you remember her X

Remember her ? Of course I do ; what
a pretty girl she was I It was a case of hopeless
attachment, was it not % How lucky
for you that her mother was so prudent !'

Lucky ! was it lucky ? Who knows ?'
Are you still sentimental about her ?'

Nonsense, Louisa ! I wish you would
not talk like that. Sometimes, upon my
word, I wonder whether you ever had a
heart 1'

I have just as good a heart as other
people,' said Lady Bellingham ; ' only the
difference between a sensible person and a
fool is that one has more reason than heart,
and the other more heart than reason. Goon.
"What about Marie de Seasons ? I
remember hear in 2; of her marriage.'

She married a Marchese Palma di St.
Isidoro, and they lived at Santa Charm.'

Always V

Yes, always. Now he is dead, and she

VOL. I. 16

has written to me to say that she wishes tolet
the piano nobile of the Palazzo St.
Isidoro ; and she begs me to tell any
English 1 may know who may want to
winter in Italy

Do you know the place V

Yes ; I have been there, many years
ago. The husband was a charming old man.
The house would suit you, and the rent is
simply ridiculous.'

I am sure it ought to be, to induce one
to coop one's self up in a small Italian town
like that.'

She sent me a description of the apartments.
There are ten rooms. I remember
two of them ; the walls are hung with that
lovely gray-green silk one never sees out of
Italy.'

I wonder whether the girls would
like it !'

It would have many advantages, not the

least of them being the economy. Alice, at
all events, would make friends with Madame
di St. Isidoro ; she would enjoy that.'

But will she remain there ?'

Yes, on the upper floor ; they often do
that in Italy. I cannot see any inconvenience.'


No, not with her. Well, I will talk it
over with the girls. It certainly would bea
treat advantage to Q:et out of England ;
only there is Kitty Brown-clifford.'

Well, what about her V

Don't you see V

Lady Bellingham's tone was quite piteous.

See what V he said, without mercy.

I want Eustace to marry her !' she said,
stamping her foot. ' And if we all go away,
there will not be a chance of it ; she will
see dozens of people before we come back.'

Eustace certainly will not fall in love
with her here,' said Mr. St. Aubyn. ' Louisa,

16—2

how blind you are ! Don't you see that
total change is the only chance ? Why, last
time I saw Eustace I asked him if he was
coming home, and he answered, " No ; I
loathe the place." '

Eustace said that ! Oh, how dreadfully
he has changed !'

I thought that would astonish you.
You take my advice. Go quietly abroad to
Santa Chiara, and I will advise Mrs. Brown-clifford
to go too — tell her that she wants
change of air, and all the rest of it.'

And you think that Eustace '

Eustace must be let alone. Let him go
his own way. Oh, do leave him alone, poor
fellow !'

But, oh, Charles, that fifteen thousand a
year !'

It is all [my fault. What a fool I have
been !* groaned the Eector. ' If only I had
not attempted to interfere !'

You really think '

I really think that among you you will
drive Eustace either into a lunatic asylum
or flight to the Far West and a peaceful
menage with a squaw,' said Mr. St. Aubyn.

Lady Bellingham closed her bureau withall
its letters and bills.

Let us proceed to business,' she said.
First of all, I must consult the girls ; and
then we will enter into negotiations with
Marie. Dear me, it will be odd to see
Marie again ! she must be quite old ; she
was some years older than you, Charles.'

Yes ; five years.'

Another subject for thanksgiving. She
must be sixty-five now ; it makes a great
difference when the age is on the wronsc
side. Has she any children ?'

She has one son, a priest, and a most
remarkable man ; he lives with her, I
believe.'

Lady Bellingham went into the drawing-room,
followed by her brother.

The little party assembled there looked
very comfortable ; they had gathered round
one of those early unexpected fires, which
have quite an extraordinary charm on an autumn
evening. Alice sat in a deep crimson
chair, her pretty brown hair catching gleams
from the firelight. At her feet, in the
furry depths of a thick white rug, sat Kitty
Brown-clifford, daintily clad in nut-brown
velvet, and with shining brown sealskin on
her velvet toque and round her slender
throat ; the warmth had brought a pink
flush to her cheek — she looked very pretty.
Georgie had both her feet curled up under
her, and she was half buried in cushions on
the sofa.

What a study of indolence !' exclaimed
Mr. St. Aubyn, as they all looked up. ' The
Three Graces in repose, you lazy little

things — and a fire ! What abominable
luxury ! ]\Iake room for me ! My dear
Kitty, why got up to dazzle us thus ?
What have you been doing '?'

1 have been to a party answered Kitty,
rising to draw forward a footstool for Lady
Bellingham.

A. party ! — where '?'

At Cranston Hall ; they had recitations.
Mamma dropped me here, and went home.
She is going to send the carriage back for me.'

Who Was there '?' said Lady Bellingham.
Everybody ; for the son has just come

home,' said Mr. St. Aubyn maliciously.

A faint groan came from her lips.

Are you not well V exclaimed Kitty
anxiously.

Yes, yes, my dear ; quite well — go on.
Tell me about your party.'

It was very dull ; everybody sat in rows,
and I knew nobody well. I did so wish

that you would all have come I I sat all
the time between Mr. St. Leger and the
son, and was horribly shy.'

Another man to add to your acquaintance
!' said Georgie. How many do you
know now ?'

Four,' said Kitty gravely.

A great advance, four in one year ; you
will know numbers in time.'

There are three times as many women
in the world as men,' said Alice.

I should have thought the proportion
was greater,' said Kitty,

What sort of man is Captain St. Leger ?'
asked Lady Bellingham.

He is charming,' answered Kitty rather
eagerly.

Good-looking — tall V

Not exactly; he is about middle height.'

Beauty does not depend upon height,' said
Georgie, ' rather upon width ; is he slight ?'

No, not exactly,' hesitated Kitty ; ' he
is rather — that is, very fat.'

I thought so,' said Lady Bellingham, ina
tone of much satisfaction. ' Now, children,
we must talk business. What do you
think of going to Italy after all ?'

I should like it very much,' said Alice.

It depends upon the locality,' said
Georgie. ' Your uncle Charles suggests
Santa Chiara.'

I think you would all like it,' said Mr.
St. Aubyn. ' There is plenty to do there in
the way of both music and pictures, and you
have the chance of a most charming house.'

Would it not be very dull ?' said Georgie.

Dull ! oh, Georgie !' cried Kitty, with a
long-drawn breath. ' Dull 1 Italy !'

I don't know that it would be worse
than staying at home,' said Georgie. 'Perhaps
rather better. I suppose Florence or
Rome are out of the question ?'

You have done your best to make them
so said Lady Bellingham severely. ' Of
course they are out of the question.'

I should like Santa Chiara,' said Alice,
after a pause. ' I should like it very much
indeed.'

It would be too good to be true,' said
Kitty, with a quick little sigh.

We have designs on your mother also,'
said Mr. St. Aubyn kindly. ' Do you think
she could be persuaded to take you out
there ?'

You never will succeed,' said Kitty,
shaking her head ; ' mamma is not easily
persuaded.'

Wait till I try.'

I will not set my heart on it,' said Kitty,
rising and fastening her veil. ' Mr. St.
Aubyn, may I take you home ? I think it
is still raining fast.'

'Do, dear,' he answered. 'Well, Louisa,

is it all settled ? 1 should not like to set to
work to induce Mrs. Brown-clifford to pack
up and start for Santa Hara, and then find
that you had given up the plan.'

Is it decided '?' said Lady Bellingham,
with unusual hesitation.

Yes, mamma,' said Alice, ' as far as I am
concerned.'

^ Yes,' said Georgie ; ' as well there as
anywhere else.'

• Then you will write to Madame di St.
Isidoro, and say that we will take the apartments
from the 1st of November '?'

Very well ; good-bye, Louisa ; good-bye.
Now, Kitty, evi route ! I tremble before
my task of persuasion.'

Kitty's is the tremble of distrust,' cried
Georgie.

And mine of certain victory and exultation,'
said Mr. St. Aubyn, as they left the
room together.

NE morning, about nine o'clock,
Lord Austen was crossing
Charles Street when he suddenly
met Marion. His astonishment was
extreme ; he could not fail to recognise her,
in spite of a thick gauze veil which covered
her face and was wound once or twice round
her throat.

I don't know that it is more extraordinary
for me to be here than you,' said she,
shaking hands with him. ' What are you
doing abroad at this time in the morning V
1 have been breakfasting; with a friend

who is going off to Scotland by the 10.20/
he answered. ' We had business to discuss.
I can account for myself; I hope you can
do so as easily.'

*' I have so little time to myself,' said
Marion, with a quick little sigh. ' There
are calls on me from morning; to night : but
papa is never down before ten, so I go out
at eight o'clock every morning.'

What for, my dear ? If you rode in the
Park I could understand it better.'

I go to St. Cuthbert's Orphanage. You
see, there is so little I can do. I might visit
in some hospital or workhouse, or anything
of that sort ; but then the only hours I
could spare would be useless to them. But
now I have found something to do, for I
consulted Sister Harriet, and she was quite
glad to make use of me.'

Why, what do you do ?'

That is it ; there is so little I can do. I

have no money, for, you know, living as we
do absorbs all our income.'

But does not exceed it, I hope ?' he said
anxiously.

No, Austen. I draw a hard and fast line
there,' she answered, with a grave smile.
It is C[uite enough — ;just enough, and no
more — so we do very well.'

Well, to return to St. Cuthbert's, what
do you do there ?'

You will think it very funny sort of
philanthropy,' she said. ' I do nothing but
write letters and receipts for donations, and
all that sort of thing ; and besides, I write
heaps of necessary circulars.'

'My dear May,' he exclaimed warmly,
if people would do what they can, as you
do, instead of plunging into heaps of good
works they can't do, much more work would
be got out of them.'

You are not on the committee of half the

good works in London for nothing she said,
smiling. ' There was fervour in your tone.'

Amateur work is very difficult to manage,'
he answered. ' Dear May, I am so glad
that you have found something to interest
you. Are you a good scribe ?'

Yes, very ; writing has always come
easily to me. If there is any more work of
that kind that I can do at home I shall be
very glad.'

I think, if you really wish it, I could
overwhelm you with such work,' he said.

It is such a comfort to be of some use
said Marion, nervously pressing her fingers
together.

I do not know anyone who leads a more
self-sacrificing or useful '

He stopped himself.

Oh, you have always spoilt me,* said
May gratefully. ' Then you will not forget
that I shall be a most willing scribe '?'

No, I will not forget. Meanwhile you
like Sister Harriet ?'

Like her ? I think she is wonderful. I
never met such a woman in my life, so
clever, so charming, such an admirable
organizer !'

Hers has been a sad life said Lord
Austen thoughtfully. ' You know it V

Very little.'

She had everything that life could give :
husband, children, home, all swept away !'
^ Ah, how terrible !'

Well, thousands of people have had
cause to be thankful that God filled up the
time that He had thus rendered vacant.'

He did not often speak like this, very
seldom showing the inner depths. May
looked up at him with tears in her beautiful
eyes.

That is a great lesson to learn,' she said
softly.

It is a lesson you are learning, May.'

Beside such troubles as those, mine seem
so small,' she said.

*I don't know he answered. *Lack of
sunshine is sometimes as hard to bear as
actual storm.'

But I have sunshine,' she said gently.

Your kindness is a warm gleam of it.'

He stooped towards her, the colour
coming into his face. ' May,' he said,

you know I want always to help you
as much as I can ; if you want to ask about
anyone or anything, do not scruple to do so.'

Thank you, Austen. Can you — do you
mind telling me about Eustace V

He is at Windsor ; he went back thereafter
Scotland. He is — better.'

Had he been ill?'

No, not ill ; but you know, you would
hardly have wished him not to be unhappy.'
^ I don't know,' said Marion wistfully.
VOL. I. 17

I think T would rather hear that he is
happy again.*

One must have patience said Lord
Austen. ' Patience will sometimes cure.'

Does it not always ?' said Marion, with
a pathetic smile. ' His mother said so.'

Perhaps. I can't tell. Lady Bellingham
is a wise woman in her own line.'

I think it is only a matter of time said
May resolutely. ' Here we are at the door.
Will you come in V

He looked at his watch. ' No. I am
afraid I must not ; I have an appointment
at ten.

It is not ten yet V

Her question was so startled that Lord
Austen was disturbed.

My dear he said gently. ' Would it be
so very dreadful if you were ten minutes late?'

It would make papa uncomfortable for
all the rest of the day she answered hastily.

Her cousin checked the words which rose
to his lips, and rang the bell for her. She ran
up the steps quickly, only turning round to
nod and smile as she vanished through the
door.

The life that Marion Austen lived was one
of extraordinary self-sacrifice. She never
had one hour of the pleasures of young life ;
she was deprived of all society of her own
age, and for no reasonable necessity. Her
father was gradually sinking into the
invalid habits of a man who indulged his
own selfish whims habitually ; his daughter
was undergoing the taming down and
moulding into his ways that had so completely
subdued her mother, and reduced
her to the patient drudge that she had
become.

Lord Austen saw this coming, and an
almost frantic longing to remedy it seized
on him ; it was terrible to him. Never had

17—2

it so struck him as on that morning, when
he had seen the startled, almost scared look
came over Marion's face, when she fancied
herself a few minutes late for breakfast.
A bold idea came into his head, a sudden
determination that he would speak openly
to Ralph Austen about it ; he would try and
probe that shallow nature to the depth, and
endeavour to discover some kind of affection,
some latent spark of natural feeling in his
selfish heart.

With this determination he returned to
Manchester Square about five o'clock that
afternoon. At that hour Mr. Austen was
generally to be found in his most comfortable
humour, enjoying his tea and resting
after the fatigues of the day ; and at that
hour May was generally singing to him.

As Lord Austen came up the stairs he
heard her voice, and he paused outside the
door not to disturb the exquisite melody.

She was singing Stradella's ' Pieta Signore,'
a song of great compass and power, but
easy to her from the unusual perfection of
her magnificent voice. The music thrilled
through the rooms, even passers-by in the
street outside involuntarily stopped to
listen.

He sighed as the last words died away,
and Mr. Austen's voice broke on the echo
still lingering; in the air.

My dear May, what a dismal thing to
sing at a time when one wants cheering up !
But I must say it is not a bad field for
showing off the voice. Those low notes of
yours are very fine ; you should sing oftener
in a low key.'

What shall I sing now, papa f

Oh, something more lively, if you
please.'

Marion was turning over her music when
her cousin came in.

'I am come back like the bad shilling
he said, smiling as he greeted her.

'My dear Austen, I am delighted to see
you !' exclaimed her father. ' I want
cheering. May has given me low spirits
by singing that song of Stradella's with
such force that one would imagine that she
was feeling it to the depths of her heart.'

So I was,' said Marion, colouring.

What a glorious thing it is !' said Lord
Austen. 'Now, Queen May, will you
allow me to treat you like a small child,
and say to you, " Eun away " ? I want a few
minutes' quiet talk with your father.'

Eeally, I am not aware ' began Mr.

Austen, but his cousin cut him short.

I will not detain you long, Ralph,* he
said. ' Marion would have time to go and
see some of her friends and come back.'

She must not leave the house !' cried her
father hastily. ' I can't have that. I shall

want her — talking always knocks me up — I
shall want her to bring me all sorts of
things.'

*I will not go out, papa,' said Marion
gently. 'I shall be in the dining-room if
you want me. 1 will take the opportunity
of having a good practice at my solfeggi.'

Be sure you shut all the doors then,' her
father called after her, as she left the room.
Then he turned peevishly to his visitor.
What is it ?' he said. * I hope you have
no ill news to give me.'

No, no !' answered Lord Austen, drawing
forward a chair, and seating himself. ' I
only want to talk to you about May.'

Well, what about her ?' very sharply.

She is not looking at all well.'

There you are quite mistaken ; she was

never better in her life. She does not care

how much she runs about.'

Nevertheless, I am right and you are

wrong ; she does not look either well or
happy

Oh, if she has been grumbling '

Grumbling I' exclaimed Lord Austen,
trying hard to keep his patience. ' I should
have thought you knew your own daughter
better

I flattered myself that I did,' said old
Ralph. 'But you are assuring me that I
am mistaken.'

Don't provoke me, Kalph,' said Lord
Austen earnestly. * I want to speak
seriously about it. If you will only meet
me half-way.'

I have met you at the starting-point,
my good fellow. Marion is quite well ; and
as to not looking happy, who does look
happy in this uncomfortable world ? Do
yoii look happy ? Do I ? Do half the
people you meet V

You and I are getting on in life ; you,

at least, have had your day. We are speaking
of a young, singularly beautiful, and
charming girl in the very bloom of youth,
and who has not yet recovered from a great
sorrow

Well r

She ought not to look like that. It is
your duty as her father so to order her life
that she has her due share of pleasure and
happiness, like others of her age — something
to change the current of sad thoughts.'

I am afraid the gallant Guardsman is
gone beyond recall,' said Ralph, with a
slight sneer.

Lord Austen bit his lips.

If you insist upon misunderstanding me
like this,' he said, ' you will drive me into
using very plain language indeed.'

Do not scruple to do so, my good friend ;
I dare say I shall survive it. I am not
strong, and excitement is very bad for me ;

but I dare say you would not be sorry if you
even killed me.'

You talk like an hysterical woman said
Lord Austen quietly. ' It is not killing you,
but I warn you that you are killing Marion.'

Mr. Austen leant back in his chair.

Go on, if you please,' he said, in a resigned
voice.

May's whole life is devoted to your
service. Heaven forbid that I should wish
to deprive you of all reasonable attention !
but why can't you let your servants run up
and down stairs every ten minutes to fetch
things instead of her ; why can't you let me
or anyone else sometimes come and stay
with you, and give her change ?'

The temptation is certainly great,' murmured
Ralph.

Why can't you let May sometimes go to
my sister-in-law, or to other friends ? A
little happiness, a little variety, is an absolute

necessity for her just now, and she has
none ; she has not an amusement in the
world, and she is blamed and scolded for
every duty she fulfils

You have touched a sore point there,' said
Mr. Austen. * May is not handy ; she forgets
little things ; she is often distraite, and she
overwhelms me with apologies when I should
prefer an improvement in substantial ways.'

Did you ever see a woman whose spirit
was broken ?'

*They are never comfortable until it is,'
said Kalph Austen.

You acknowledge the conditions of her
life V

Why should I deny them ? The only
thing in which we differ is that I am afraid,
very greatly afraid, that you are going to
prescribe some impossible remedy.'

You acknowledge an evil, and yet seek
no cure V

My friend, I think I am five years older
than you are ; perhaps the next five years
of your life will serve to convince you that
though man may often endure a malady, he
lacks courage to face the remedy. Anything
for a quiet life.'

Lord Austen bit his lip hard. * Ealph/
he said suddenly, ' do listen to me ! You
used to listen to me once.*

Necessity had no master,' murmured
Mr. Austen.

You try my patience greatly,' went on
his cousin. * I will venture to say that you
have no right thus to shadow and darken
Marion's young life. Her life is one of
unceasing self-sacrifice, untiring self-denial,
but she will kill herself to gratify your
selfish monopoly of her whole existence.'

What are you aiming at ?' said Mr.
Austen, leaning back in his chair, and
slowly clasping his long white hands. * Is

this very courteous and moderate commencement
a prelude to an application for
my daughter's hand V

You have no heart said Lord Austen
hotly. ' Do you imagine that because I
have failed in obtaining the highest wish of
my life — May's hand — that because of that
I can think less of her welfare ?'

Pardon me, I do not say " think less."
But please forgive me, Austen ; surely such
a failure diminishes your right of interference.'


Lord Austen leapt to his feet. ' I do
not think that I expected to be treated
quite like this, Kalph/ he said.

Ah, you recollect past favours, and expected
due subservience, eh ?'

I am a gentleman, Ralph,' Lord Austen
answered, speaking calmly with the greatest
difficulty. ' Do not tempt me to forget
that you are one also.'

Kindly touch the bell if you really must
go. It is on the right side of the fireplace,
Austen. That is it — thank you. Goodbye
; so sorry for this little difference of
opinion between us.'

But Lord Austen was gone.

OED AUSTEN heard Marion's
voice again as he reached the
hall ; she was in the diningroom,
and she was singing scales most
assiduously. He paused for one moment,
then suddenly resolved for once to act upon
impulse, and went in. May looked up
from her music with rather a troubled expression
on her face.

I am afraid my voice is losing some of
its flexibility,' she said.

I see no sign of it,' he answered, in so
absent a manner that she suddenly perceived

that something was the matter ; and
her manner became anxious.

What is it, Austen ?' she said quickly.
Has anything happened ? you look so disturbed


Something has disturbed me,' he said.
More than I can say.'

Do tell me !' she said. ' Let me help
you, if I can.'

Ah, May ! if you would !*

Something in his tone startled her. She
drew back and flushed.

He was standing before her ; his strong
face was very pale. He looked older than
usual — gray, almost haggard. Old Ralph,
with his refined beauty, was a much handsomer
man.

May had within her much of the extreme
love of beauty that belongs to the sunny
South. The beauty of goodness and strength
and love did not yet transcend all other in

her mind. Intuitively he knew it ; he knew
that her love was not for him. But he was
prepared to sacrifice that (and how great a
sacrifice it was only he himself knew) for the
sake of securing the right to protect her, to
make her life more happy. The man was
wholly unselfish.

Dear May,' he said, forcing himself to
speak with such gentleness that his voice
sounded almost cold. ' I want very much
to talk to you a little about yourself.'

Sit down, Austen she said, smiling
rather nervously. ' Tell me what you mean.
I don't think that I am a very agreeable
topic of conversation.'

You look ill,' he said tenderly, ' and
very often overtired.'

She could not help sighing.

I am always tired,' she said. ' You sec,
I cannot help it ; but life is very uphill
work just now.'

A^OL. I. 18

Are these duties too much for you V

'Oh no; the duties are nothing. They
are my very best pleasure.'

May,' he said quickly, ' it breaks my
heart to see your young life weighted in this
way. I can only suggest one remedy. Perhaps
that remedy may be worse to you than
the evil it professes to cure.'

She clasped her hands.

What are you going to say, Austen V
she said nervously.

Only this, May dearest. I don't know
how to say it ; but if you would consent to
be my wife. Dear, you are so lonely ; you
have no protection ; you have too many
calls on you ; you cannot always bear it. I
express myself so badly. What I want to
say is this : that if you will only entrust
yourself to me, I will take care of you.'

Those last simple words touched her
deeply, and with a sense of strong temptation

; there was something so precious and
restful in this idea of protection and care.

Her eyes filled with tears.

Is it for my sake only that you ask me
this ?' she said earnestly.

Lord Austen paused.

'May,' he said, 'that is a question that is
difficult to answer. I think you know well
that I have never loved any woman in the
world as I love you ; that you are to me
the one love of my life. But, dear, I assure
you from the very bottom of my heart that
I do not wish to plead this love ; I do not
wish: it to bias you. I would never have
spoken of it if— if — if your lines had fallen
in pleasant places ; but it is different now.
What I offer you is a poor substitute for
what, I fear, you have lost for ever ; but,
my clear, my dear ! comfort, rest, and protection
are not to be lightly thrown away.
If I could not make you happy by my love

18—2

(and, with God's help, perhaps in time that
also may come), I could at least give you rest

She put out both her hands and held his.

Austen,' she said, *I wish — oh, how I wish
I could accept it !'

^ You cannot, May ?'

No, I cannot. I could not do you so
great an injury. I have no heart to give ;
and you know, in spite of all the good
kind things you have said, that if we were
to be married you would be very miserable,
for you would give all your great noble love
for nothing, and I should feel that I had
nothing to give you except gratitude ; and
you deserve so much more. You deserve
real wife-love ; and when it comes to you, it
will make you very happy.*

He shook his head. ' In time, May,' he
said wistfully. ' You are young ; you do
not know what time does.'

May looked at him, and pressed her

hands tightly together. * Austen,' she said,
while one is young, one dreads the cure
of time. To think that wounds can be
cured is the worst pang they give.'

That is no comfort, then. Yet you
spoke of certainty of cure for Eustace.'

She turned away her head. He fancied
he had been unkind.

Oh, May, was I cruel V

No, no — not cruel ; only sometimes I
think even you do not, or will not, understand.'


Poor May ! I have added to your
troubles ; and I would so fain help you to
bear them. So it must not be V

No, no — not now !' she cried ; again
the piteous feeling coming over her that
she was rejecting all help, all comfort.

Do not deceive me, May,' he said very
gravely ' You say, " Not now !" Do you
mean that some day, perhaps '

She suddenly hid her face on his shoulder.
'Austen she said, 'listen to me. I cannot
now — indeed I cannot. I love him so ; we
were engaged so long. I still long so to
see him — for the sound of his voice, for
his footstep on the stair. Oh, my darling —
my darling I' She burst into a passion of
tears.

Lord Austen stood quietly while she
leant against him, softly stroking her hair.
His heart was very full. After all, this
was what he wanted — to help and comfort
her ; and it was well that he should know
the task he undertook, and what it would
cost him, to the full. He had once seen
her give way like this before ; had once
fathomed the full depths of her sorrow and
her love, and his great heart filled with
tenderness all the more intense for the
bitter pain.

Poor child — poor May !' he said.

You understand '?' she exclaimed passionately
— ' you see that what you ask is
impossible now ! But, oh, forgive me if I
am too selfish ! — if it is too cruel ! If some
day '

Tell me, May — tell me all that is in
your mind,' he said earnestly.

If life should become more than I can
bear I — I am very miserable sometimes.'


Then, darling, you would let me take
care of you ? — may it be so, my May V

I cannot say so.'

Darling, it will be my right to take care
of you ; and I can never fail you. I am
very helpless now ; even half an hour ago
your father told me that I had no right to
interfere. '

Papa ! Oh, I must go to him !'

One moment more. I want a promise
from you.'

Oh no — no !' She sprang back.
,' ' Do not be afraid,' he said mournfully.
The promise is only this. You will always
come to me — you will always rely on me —
lean on me — trust me, as if I were your
brother.'

Oh, how I wish you were indeed my
brother !'

You will promise, May ? At any time,
wherever I may be, whatever you may want,
without reserve "?'

I will — I do promise. At least, I can
give you all the faith and trust that is in
my heart, and it is very full of them,' she
said pathetically.

He stooped down and kissed her brow
softly, tenderly, with a great sadness in his
face. She went to the glass, ami quickly,
with trembling fingers, arranged her hair,
touched the soft ruffles at her throat, and
removed a lingering trace of tears.

Papa ^vill see nothing now,' she said.
Good-bye, Austen — dear Austen !' and then
she went away.

When Marion knelt in her room that
night, she felt as if her heart were breaking.
The suffering she endured was even worse
than the actual parting with her betrothed.
Then, in the exaltation of her own self-sacrifice,
she had not realized that that
self-sacrifice would entail daily, hourly,
ceaseless pain, the languor of reaction, the
bitter distaste of ordinary life — all the
various subtle forms of pain which make up
the whole sum of human suffering. Now,
added to all this was her own doubt whether
she could endure to the end, a strong disgust
with herself for doubting her own
fidelity to her lost love — a fidelity less to
love than to pain. For long hours she lay
awake, tossing from side to side, longing in
vain for the sweet forgetfulness of sleep.

ORD AUSTEN came into his
sister-in-law's drawing-room in
Eaton Square, and sat down
beside her. She was engaged in putting
into water a quantity of hothouse flowers
that had just come up from Castleford ; but
she put aside her vases, and looked up
anxiously into his face.

What is the matter, Austen V she said.
You look so tired. Do you want Tom ?
He is not at home. Muriel, ring for tea.'

Little Muriel emerged from the corner in
which she was sitting with a large horse in

her arms, and climbed slowly on to her
uncle's knee.

She was a dainty, fairy-like child, with
curly golden hair and very large eyes. She
was so completely her mother's companion
that people forgot her presence ; and as she
could be a very silent little mouse, she often
heard things that were not meant for such
young ears.

I have been having it out with Kalph
Austen, Gerty.'

Oh 1 I thought it would come to that,
sooner or later. How very kind of you I
Do you think it will do any good V

On the contrary, I think one's interference
is more likely to do harm than good.'

The odious old curmudgeon !'

'What is a curmudgeon. Uncle Austen'
said Muriel gravely.

A venerable old person, darling,' said
Gerty hastily.

Lord Austen was not attending, only
stroking the child's soft hair.

I put it as forcibly as I could, Gerty/
he went on. 'I represented to him that
May did not look well. I went so far as to
say that he was killing her ; but I made no
impression upon him whatever.'

Did you say what it was that was killing
her r

I said all I could — the want of sunshine
in her life, the perpetual contradiction she
met with. How could one put it more
plainly ? If you could hear him scold and
talk at her as he does so constantly, you
would understand what I feel.'

I do understand only too well, dear
Austen said Gerty, laying her hand on his
arm. She felt it painfully, always with the
underlying feeling that it was partly the
fault of her own want of foresight. ' And
what did he say ?'

I can hardly tell you what he said. I
was too indignant really to take it in. He
told me in so many words that I had forfeited
all right of interference."

He said that V

Yes, and I dare say he is right. Well,
Gerty, you are the only person who can
help her at all now. You won't give her
up, however difficult and disagreeable it maybe
— will you, dear X

I ? never. There is nothing in the
word that I would not do for her or for
you.'

For me ? You should say for your
brother, Gerty.'

She shook her head.

That is quite and entirely at an end,' she
gait.

You think so ?' he said wistfully. 1
should be so thankful to see her happy
again. While the engagement lasted she

was so happy. Nothing that old Kalph
could have exacted would have been a
burden then.'

That is quite over said Gerty again.
Jt is of no use even dreaming of it.'

Ah, well r

He rose to his feet.

May I have Muriel tomorrow morning
at eleven o'clock ?' he said.

Certainly. It is lesson-time, and it is
most irregular ; but if you want her I must
arrange it. Where do you wish to take
her ?'

To see my own particular beast at the
Zoological.'

Have you a beast there of your own,
Uncle Austen — of your very own X

Yes, a nice little funny beast, that was
sent to me, when it was a baby, by an old
friend of mine. It is called a wombat. I
believe it turns head over heels very

neatly. I want to see whether it is happy-there.'


Oh, how 1 wish I had one, too !'

Perhaps you will some day, if you grow
old, and wise, and tall, like me.'

He went away.

Gerty was occupied with her own
thoughts, and did not perceive how preoccupied
her little daughter was. Muriel
played solemnly with her doll, and seemed
to be making very serious speeches to it,
until it was bedtime. Then when she
came for her goodnight kiss, she ventured
upon a few questions to satisfy the working
of her mind.

Mamma,' she said, ' I suppose May is
not good f

Not good, child ! I only wish I were
one quarter as good.'

Then why does the venerable old
man scold and talk at her? Papa never

scolds you. What should you do if he

did r

I don't know said Gerty, laughing.

I know what you would do,' said Muriel,
with ever-increasing gravity. * You would
say, '' Tom, you shouldn't," and Tom would
desist. I say " Leave off," but Miss Lingered
says "Desist," and it means the same thing.'

So papa would desist V

Of course. Somebody ought to tell the
curmudgeon to let May alone.'

Your uncle has been telling him so, and
he won't pay any attention,' said Gerty
indignantly.

That is unpardonable,' said Muriel.

After which grand word she relapsed into
silence, and went upstairs to bed.

But her little mind did not rest ; there
she lay awake thinking over May's hardships
half the night. She loved her cousin
dearly, and the conclusion to which the

child came was that no cleaned of making
her happy should be lost, and that she
would try what she herself could do.

The next morning at eleven she started
with her uncle for the Zoological Gardens,
the prettiest little picture of a child in her
blue velvet pelisse and chincluUa fur. He
was very fond of her, and was never
happier than when her tiny fingers were in
his.

The wombat was duly visited, and little
Muriel made one of her little old-fashioned
set speeches to the keeper, which made him
and all the by-sanders laugh.

'It is an exile from its native clime,' she
said. * So be good to it, and do not laugh
at it when it turns head over heels, for it
can't like to be laughed at. Good-bye.'

They drove to Manchester Square when
they left the Gardens. Lord Austen had a
note he wanted to leave there.

VOL. I. 19

*I want to get out and see May said
Muriel. ' Please let me, Uncle Austen

I dare say she would like to see you fora
moment he answered, thinking that
Marion would enjoy seeing the tiny fairy of
whom she was so fond. * You may take up
the note if you like. I will wait here
downstairs, and walk up and down until
you come back.'

I won't be long, Uncle Austen,' she
answered, as she went in.

It was just the opportunity she wanted ;
but her little heart beat fast, and her blue
eyes grew wider and wider with terror as
she followed the footman upstairs. She
was conducted into the drawing-room, and
found herself alone with Mr. Austen.

Poor little soul, she was terrified ; but
her terror had on her the odd effect it sometimes
has on children and animals alike — it
made her bolder. She, the petted darling of

her home, the centre of the most tender care
and consideration, found herself, absolutely
without protection, alone with this cousin
who looked at her as no one ever had
looked at her before, with unfriendly eyes.

What do you want, child V he said impatiently.
' Do you want Marion ? if so,
you had better look for her upstairs.'

I should like to speak to you, Cousin
Ralph,' said Muriel, advancing with both
her little hands tightly squeezed together.

I am busy, child, and can't attend to
you.'

I won't keep you more than a moment,
Cousin Ralph ;' and she came close to him,
and put her tiny hand on his arm.

Make haste and say what you want.'

I want to ask you to be kind to May.'

what?

Poor little Muriel jumped off her feet
with fright, but she persevered. ' May

19—2

is very unhappy ; I want you to be kind to
her. May is not naughty. Mamma says
she wishes she were as good as May ; and
please — please don't be cross to her.'

The little voice began to get tremulous.
Kalph Austen had taken hold of her tiny
shoulders, and his hands where intended and
hard ; they hurt her, the little dainty fairy
child.

Who dared send you here to lecture me ?'

Nobody dared. T did it myself. I — I
want you to be kind to May.'

Hold your tongue,' he shouted, ' you
impertinent little minx!'

I am not a minx, and you should not call
me so,' said Muriel, struggling under the
grasp which was getting more and more
painful.

If I were your papa, I would whip you.'

I should not care, if you would only be
good to May. Let me go !'

The child's voice was almost a cry
now.

Ralph Austen had cruel instincts in him ;
he liked to feel that he was hurting; the

o

little helpless child, he was so angry with
her.

'■ Did your mamma tell you to say this ?'

No, no ! it was out of my head. Please,
oh, please let me go ! You do not want to
hurt me ; you wouldn't, I know. Cousin
Ralph, because you are a curmudgeon.'

AVhat V he shouted again.

Mamma said so,' went on Muriel, getting
more and more frightened. ' She said you
were a venerable old person, so, you see, I
thought it would be all right. Oh, May !
May !'

Mr. Austen let her go as the door opened,
and the child flew into Marion's arms
bursting into a passion of sobs.

Odious brat !' he said peevishly. * Send

her away at once, and tell her that if she
ever comes here again I will punish her.'

May carried away the child most anxiously,
questioning her as to what had happened ;
but the loyal little thing would not confess
one word — only she struggled with all her
might to stop crying, and to hide all traces
of tears before she rejoined her uncle outside.
She was not quite successful, for
long after the tears had ceased to flow,
single, quite irrepressible, sobs came surging
up from the overcharged little heart, and
made him wonder what had happened to
upset her so.

^?TO§HE people were pouring out of the
great doors of the Opera-house at
Santa Chiara, where a much-advertised
concert had just taken place.
Their feeling's were in a state of enthusiasm
bordering on frenzy.

A Pag;anini ! a Pao;anini at the least T
exclaimed a stout Italian.

Paganini !' retorted his friend. ' Paganini
himself had not that tenderness of
feeling, that marvellous touch !'

•' At least, Paganini had a better fiddle
said Eustace Bellingham, drawing a great

fur cloak round the shoulders of his mother,
for the winter was approaching and beginning"
to make itself felt even m the
South.

Yes she answered, ' the violin was very
bad ; such a pity 1 Oh, what a draught !
I hope your sisters have wrapped themselves
up well. Make haste, Eustace, and
call the carriage.'

He made his way through the crowd,
which was so much occupied talking, gesticulating,
criticising, and raving, that it
was not an easy task. Lady Bellingham
looked after him with some impatience ; his
two sisters were occupied with their own
affairs.

Alice had quivering lips and eyes full of
tears, for the music of the violinist had
gone into her very soul, and, as her mother
and Georgia often said mockingly, ' she had
an emotional temperament.

Georgie was agreeably occupied in flirting
with Mr. Mulroy.

That gentleman had no sooner heard of
their determination to winter at Santa
Chiara, than he started off" at once, travelling
night and day ; took a studio there to give
himself a valid excuse for his presence, and
established himself in the most comfortable
hotel.

The carriage arrived ; Eustace returned
and placed them in it.

Are you not coming ?'

I shall walk home, thanks.'

Lady Bellingham drew up the window.
Alice leant back, wishing that she also could
have walked home, for the music was ringing
in her ears, and conjuring up sorrowful
fancies that were after all rather feelings
than thoughts, but which made the close
carriage unusually oppressive.

Mr. Mulrov linked his arm in that of

Sir Eustace ; he would not be shaken off.
Eustace released himself to light a cigar,
but before he could escape was seized upon
again.

Awfully good, wasn't if?' said Mr.
Mulroy eagerly. 'I never heard anything
better in my life. Beats all the great
men into fits.'

^ I don't think the report was exaggerated
said his companion ungraciously. 'And
that is marvel enough. See ! there he

IS.

Involuntarily they made a step forward.
Out of a side-door of the Opera-house came
the great musician walking quietly with a
quick, silent tread, as he came out throwing
the end of his long Italian cloak across his
chest. He paused for a moment under the
lamp-post to look at his watch. That
moment was enough : some of the groups
of men standing about the doors of the

theatre caught sight of his face, and raised
a shout :

Ursel ! Ursel evviva ! Bravo ! bravo !'

Others took it up ; a merry, noisy band of
the orchestra musicians poured out of their
own private door, and suddenly joined in
the acclamations.

Eustace watched the scene with some
amusement ; he saw the crowd gather round
the violinist, who cast a look of despair to
the four quarters of heaven as if for release.
The look fell on him, and it made him
smile. There was all the despair of a quiet
man drao^o-ed into a most unwelcome situation
; he evidently expostulated wildly, but
expostulated in vain.

The Englishman, when he caught his eye,
gave him a little friendly nod of encouragement.
Ursel's face changed quite suddenly ;
a deprecating smile came over it. He ceased
all resistance, gave a shrug of the shoulders,

resigned himself to his fate, aDcl was borne
aloft on the shoulders of a shouting; halloo;
mob.

Unfortunate man,' said Mr. Mulroy.
He don't seem to relish popularity.'

Penalty of greatness,' said Sir Eustace
shortly.

How I wonder what a fellow like that
makes in a night !' went on Air. Mulroy.
Of course, I don't mean in a hole like this,
but elsewhere. A goodish lot, I should
imagine ; and dien he goes to England, I
should fancy that his fortune would be
made.'

'■ Fortunes are relative,' said Eustace
moodily. ' Poverty to one would seem inexhaustible
wealth to another.'

Beastly thing, poverty !' said Mulroy.

I don't think you know much about it,'
said Eustace quickly.

Oh, ah, well ! no one has as much as he

could do with. I have felt myself pinched
awfully. One must feel a much richer
fellow when you have so many hundred
pounds a night in your finger-tips. Queer-looking
fellow, is he not ? Looks as if life
were an awful bore, don't he X

Life disagrees with a good many. I daresay
with him, as with others.'

You are hipped, old chap ! What is it \
Anything I can do f

Nothing ; you are very kind.'

The tone was icy, and good little Joseph
Mulroy felt repulsed. Certainly his degree
of acquaintance hardly justified the term of
old chap ' that he had just used ; but in his
own thoughts and reflections he had ozone
so far in a ripening affection for all the
family that he forgot where reality stopped
and imagination stepped in.

I beg your pardon,' he said in a small
voice, feeling a little sore, a little neOTcvcd

that the curb had checked him so
sharply.

'No, no !' exclaimed Eustace quickly.
All right ; I am hipped. Nothing — don't
think of it. I am a bear !'

Mulroy hooked himself a little closer on
his tall companion's arm.

What can I do ?' he said eagerly. ' Long
walk ? billiards ? Anything I can do %
Believe me, you will confer a favour on me.
Solitude, eh f

Well, yes,' said Eustace, smiling in spite
of himself. ' I suspect there is nothing for
it but solitude ; so good-bye ; thanks.'

Mulroy stood on the pavement, looking
crestfallen. Eustace saw it. He was feeling
fierce and impatient ; his troubles
pressed heavily upon him ; the wild wailing
notes of that violin had awakened them —
hydra-headed, relentless. What did they
concern that sleek, slim little man standing

there with his sandy whiskers and his kind,
twinkling eyes, the gold knob of his cane
in his mouth, and his eye-glass dangling on
its chain with a look of deprecation and
uncertainty ?

His cares were nothing to him, yet the
touch of human sympathy was such that he
felt oppressed ; even in his impatience and
irritability he could not leave it unsatisfied.

Good-bye — old fellow,' he said.

Mulroy gave quite a little start of joy,
and looked after him wistfully as he strode
away down the street, passing in and out
of the lights and shadows. There was something
of the feminine element in honest
little Joe's heart ; he felt that those words
made him love Eustace, and he never forest
them.

Eustace Bellingham walked on, his pace
growing faster and faster. The broad, overhanging
roofs threw black shadows across

the streets ; a great white moon came out
suddenly, and flooded the world with light.
He came to the gates of the town, and passed
out into the country.

Noisy groups of men met him, in whom
he recognised those who had conducted the
great musician home ; and a vague curiosity
came into his mind to know where he lived.
He was now mounting a long steep hill, on
either side of the road a straddling street of
poor low houses. An impulse made him
stop one of the passers-by and ask him to
tell him where Ursel lived ; as he did so, he
wondered at himself for wishing to know.
What did it signify to him ?

The man answered readily enough. Ursel
lived higher up on the road, in apartments ;
the house on the left — the one w^itli the
painted loggia, he explained with volubility.


Eustace thanked him, and went on. Tl:c

man looked after him wonderingly. What
could an Englishman want with Ursel at
that time of the night ?

The long hill reached its height, and
began a rapid descent. The houses and
high walls ended abruptly at the summit,
and the full stretch of open country lay
before him. A great plain, mountains interlacing
each other ; long narrow shadows
sleeping in the light ; a great convent rising
dark and solitary on a hill in the foreground
; the soft wind blowing over miles
of olive-trees, causing them to turn all their
shimmering silver to the light of the moon.

On the left hand stood a little villa, conspicuous
for its brightly painted loggia.

Eustace had forgotten all the objects of
his wanderings ; he was absorbed in the
wonderful scene that lay before him, when
suddenly on the air fell one little cadence of
music — a slow, soft movement some half a

VOL. I. 20

PRECAUTIONS.

dozen bars in length, and ending in a delicate
rippling run which fled rapidly over
the tiny staircase of sound, up, up, till it
lost itself in the highest possibility of
human vibration.

Silence followed, and all was hushed for
the night.

H !' exclaimed Georgina Bellingham,
with an exclamation more
like a groan than a sigh. ' Le
jeu vaut-il la chandelle T

There is no reason that you should do
anything that you do not like,' said Alice
anxiously.

Somebody must do something answered
her sister sharply. ' One can't drift on forever,
and I suppose it will end in that ;
though I cannot see why I should be the
only one to be victimized

Oh, Georgie !' cried Alice, with tears

20—2

rushing to her eyes ; ' if you feel that, I beg
and entreat you not to go on like this ! I
do respect and like Mr. Mulroy so much,
and it makes me miserable to think that
you may be playing with him.'

Who said that I was playing with him V
said Georgina. ' You are so downright that
you never can understand anything; and
it is such nonsense !'

But you can't really admire his singing,
and those dreadful paintings ! How could
you tell him to bring them here ? What on
earth shall we say V

Leave that to me. He thinks them all
right ; so it is not our business to undeceive
him.'

Only, why should he make copies of all
the most celebrated pictures ? If he would
be satisfied with attempts that no one would
recognise, it would be all very well ; but to
copy the Raphael and Titian ! How blind

people are to the extent of their own
powers !'

You will have to be more careful in your
criticisms when the time comes, my dear,'
said Georgie.

If it ever comes,' Alice answered, putting
her arm round her sister's neck. ' Tell me,
darling — do tell me — do you mean to accept
him? Indeed, indeed, if you do, I will
never say another word about his peculiarities
; I will see nothing but good in him.
Only one must know.'

How can I tell you ?' exclaimed Georgie,
drawing herself away almost roughly. * I
do not know myself.'

As far as he is concerned ' began

Alice ; but Georgina interrupted her.

As far as he is concerned, my dear, it is
only a matter of when I shall choose to
clinch the matter. That is not the question.'


Wealth is not everything,' said Alice
slowly.

She stood before her sister, watching her
with wistful brown eyes. She had pushed
back the soft hair which curled on her
square-cut brow, and the whole attitude of
her slender figure and clasped hands betrayed
nervous anxiety.

Money is not everything,' she repeated.

I am not so sure,' answered Georgie. ' I
suppose the world knows best, and the
world's opinion is that money is a great
deal.'

Georgie darling,' cried Alice eagerly, * it
is not true ; there are things to which
money is nothing I Even the world thinks
so — love, honour, success, content.'

Everything has its price,' answered
Georgie ; ' even that last homely article
called content. My price for that same
article would be a very high one.'

'You think you would be happy with
Mr. Muh'oy/ said Alice dejectedly.

Happy ! If I were a Frenchwoman I
should exclaim, 'that idea is du dernier
bourgeois!' I shall be successful; I shall
have more of the means of happiness than
is attainable without a certain amount of
pounds, shillings, and pence; and I am
horribly, horribly tired of being poor,' she
added, stretching out her arms with a weary
movement.

So am I, Georgie, especially since all the
horses went up to Tattersall's ; but all the
same, there are worse evils than poverty.'

'Well, a woman might marry a worse
man than Joseph Mulroy. Joseph — what
a name T

Then you will do it 1'

You will know when you are told
answered Georgie, running away.

Alice sighed deeply ; then she sat down

before the sketch she was making, and
began to draw listlessly.

The Bellinghamss were living in apartments
in the Palazzo St. Isidoro, and they
had every reason to be satisfied with their
choice. The rooms were very large and
lofty, opening into each other. They where
beautifully decorated, hung with silk, and
with richly painted ceilings and handsome
heavy cornices. There was an absence of
English comfort ; but Lady Bellingham,
having filled one small room with comfortable
armchairs and sofas, was content to
leave the rest of the rooms as they were,
furnished with marble consoles, big unwieldy
chairs, gilt and covered with the
same fine silk damask that hung on the
walls. They had all the charm of an untouched
Italian palace, and Alice in especial
delighted in them.

Lady Bellingham came into the room

where Alice was drawing, and with a long
sigh seated herself by her daughter.

Mr. Mulroy has just come,' she said.
He has gone into the end room, to show
Georgie his pictures. I am sure I don't
know how it will all end.'

I suppose it will end in their marrying,'
said Alice, a little bitterly.

You think she will accept him T

eyes.'

And Eustace ?'

Mother, mother, do let Eustace alone !'
exclaimed Alice, the tears rushing to her
eyes. * If you only knew how unhappy
he is !'

Does he talk of it to you "?'

Only sometimes — how can he help it ?
I am the only one who loves May, and who
understands him.'

You encourage him in his madness,
when you know that it can do no good.'

If you will only leave him alone, mother ;
he knows it as well as you do. But he
must have time.'

Time ! — it has gone on for years ! Alice,
I have heard from your uncle Charles this
morning ; the Brown-clifford will be here
to-day.'

To-day !— all of them ?'

A feeling almost of dislike came over
Alice — dislike even to x^oor Kitty, for
coming there, if she was to be made the
instrument for tormenting her brother.

Only the mother and Kitty. The aunt
stays behind to take care of the house and
the cats, and everything else, I am thankful
to say.'

That is one less, at all events,' said
Alice. ' Kitty will enjoy herself, I am
sure.'

We must do something to make her
enjoy it, and to keep us altogether,' said

Lady Bellingham ; ' a few expeditions, or
something of that sort.'

*We shall see plenty of them, mamma,
don't be afraid,' said Alice.

You speak as if you did not like her,
Alice,' said her mother ; ' whereas, really I
think I do not know any girl I would
sooner have for a daughter. She is one of
the simplest, most unaffected girls I know ;
and would be very pretty if she were only
tolerably dressed.'

'I like her very much,' said Alice wearily.

But don't you agree with me that she is
suited to Eustace in every way V

Don't ask me, mamma,' said Alice.
What can I say ? after May !'

I wish none of you had ever seen May.'

I am afraid poor May must wish that
too.'

She will marry Lord Austen. I know
she will ; there is not a doubt of it ; it is

the most obvious thing — only I wish it could
be at once

Alice sighed ; it was no use arguing ; it
did no good whatever.

Lady Bellingham's handsome face looked
drawn and haggard.

Look here, Alice she said, holding out
some letters ; ' here is proof positive that
something must be done. Some real
mariages de convenance turn out exceedingly
happy ones. I don't want Eustace to
be unhappy, but if a little self-sacrifice will
save the old place '

'Ah!'

It was a sigh, almost a sob. That the
beloved old home should have to go, to
sink into the hands of mortgagees, should
pass away from those whose ancestors had
reigned there so long, was a thought of extreme
suffering.

Poor old Eustace !' sighed Alice. ' Poor

fellow I Mamma, he will never forget ; he
will break his heart !'

Hearts are not so easily broken,' said her
mother impatiently ; ' and I cannot help
feeling, Alice, how little sympathy I meet
with from you : my fears are not idle

But, mamma, please forgive me. I do
not want to be unsympathetic, but even if
the worst should come to the worst, even if
Eustace has to part with Castleford, it would
be nothing compared to what it would be
to be tied for life to a woman he did not
care for. Eustace is a man ; he can face
misfortune as other men have faced it over
and over again.'

Lady Bellingham shook her head impatiently.


You either cannot or will not see the
common-sense view, Alice. You propose
that Eustace should sit down patiently
under the loss of fortune, Castleford, and

Marion ; whereas my idea is that he could
make himself perfectly happy in his own
home with a charming young wife whom he
must soon learn to care for.'

Well, the question has scarcely risen yet
said Alice mournfully.

Lady Bellingham went away restlessly.
She was a very ambitious woman ; ambition
warped her nature, blunted her feelings, and
absorbed her mind. Wealth and its accessories,
since she had lost them, had assumed
altogether abnormal proportions in her
mind.

Meanwhile Mr. Mulroy was bending over
Georgina's chair, showing her his elaborate
pictures, new and bright and shining with
strong varnishes. His heart was throbbing
violently, and he hardly knew how to lookup
or speak to this girl, who in her youth
and beauty he thought so infinitely above
him.

Are you fond of travelling ?' she asked ;
and the question seemed to open to him the
opportunity of talking about himself and
his own concerns, for which he was yearning.

Yes ; I have travelled a great deal,' he
answered eagerly. ' I think it has been my
best — almost my only education.'

*In painting, you mean f said Georgie,
touching one of the copies.

'In everything. I have had fewer advantages
than other men. It puts me
behindhand.'

I do not see what you mean by advantages.'


Oh, lots of things. I was brought up
at home ; never went to school or college ;
no profession ; awfully hard luck !'

I wonder why V said Georgina.

I had the misfortune of losing my father
as an infant. My mother, infatuated, would
not part with me. Pity, was it not % She

was a very good woman, but prejudiced,
you see. I never left home ; never had a
chance.'

Is she alive 1' said Georgie hastily, a
sudden spasm of terror crossing her mind at
the prospect of such a mother-in-law.

No ; she is dead, poor soul ! She died
when I was three-and-twenty — too old to
turn my hand to anything new, or I
would have gone to Oxford even then ;
but by that time I had become too awfully
shy.'

Are you shy X said Georgie, raising her
eyes to his face. ' I should not have
thought it.'

Not really ? You are awfully good to
say so. Yes ; I am shy, and I don't know
how to get on with strangers, you know.
Horrid, isn't it? I am always saying or
doing the wrong thing. There is your
brother, now. I like him and admire him

beyond measure, but all the liking is on
my side. How could he ever make friends

with such a '

Stop, stop I' cried Georgina, smiling.
I don't like to hear you abuse yourself.
After all, you have some advantages which
Eustace would give much to possess.'
I, Miss Bellingham % You are joking.'
You underrate your own qualifications
she went on, an irrepressible bitterness just
showing; through the lio-htlv uttered words.
You are rich ; you are young ; you have the
power of ease and good in your hands ; you
are free, untrammelled, able to follow your
own wishes ; you possess all the elements of
happiness.'

'Without the power of enjoyment, eh V
That must be your own fault, then.'
Yes, yes,' he said dejectedly : ^ of course
you are right — you always are right — it is
my own fault.'

VOL. I. 20*

'And not irremediable.' said Georgina
quietly.

Eh : what ? If I might only dare T

Georgie rose to her feet. ' You are very
ambitious,' she said, pointing to a copy of
the ' Belle Jardiniere ' in the Louvre.

lie did not see the finger, and only heard
the words.

So that is your answer,' he said. * T
knew it must be so ; how could I imagine
anything otherwise ?'

answer ! answer to what V exclaimed'
Georgie, turning her large eyes on him inquiringly.
;

'Forgive my presumption ; I will say no
more.'

Mr. Mulroy,' said Georgina, sitting down
again, and looking at her uneasy suitor
with a great effort to suppress the contempt
she felt rising up within her, ' do not mistake
me. I alluded to your cojdIcs of Raphael's

chefs-cVccuvve when I called you ambitious ;
in all other respects I consider you, I may
say, far too diffident.'

'Not really r

Yes, really,' she answered brightly ;
*and now that you have analyzed your
character to your own satisfaction, go on
and tell me, not where you have been in
the course of your travels, but where you
intend to go next.'

I am no longer my own master,' he
answered.

Indeed !' said Georgie. ' Pray when did
you resign your freedom V

At the first moment that I caught sight
of you,' he answered.

Georgie did not know what to answer.
She looked down, and began to replace the
drawings. Her silence gave him the opportunity
he wanted.

*]\Iiss Bellingham,' he began, 'if you

20—2

would not think it presumption — if I might
only venture to ask '

Yes '?' said Georges She could hardly
suppress a little nervous stamp on the floor.

If you would be my wife I'

Would it make you happy X she said
slowly.

It would make me the happiest man on
earth!' he cried. 'But no, I see that it
cannot be. I have presumed too much.'

Why are you so diffident "?' said Georgie,
smiling. ' I shall have to teach you your
own value.'

Your consent would teach me that.'

Then you have it — but listen,' she said
suddenly, with some vibration that had
pathos in it coming into her voice : ' I will
marry you ; but you must not expect too
much of me. You seem, according to your
own account, to have a very small knowledge
of the world ; if that is the case, I should

like to warn you not to make an ideal of
me. I am not a bit better than other
people ; you must take me as you find me.'

My Georgie ! my beloved ! to me you
will always be the very first — the very
best 1'

The words were all that she could wish.
Georgie had chosen her lot ; but as she
resigned her hand into his, and permitted
him to kiss her cold cheek, a sharp shiver
went through her of repulsion to her fate.
He was ugly, unattractive, his modesty contemptible
to her ; the quiet confession of his
inferiority, instead of touching, exasperated
her ; she could hardly endure his loving
words, and escaped to her own room, almost
terrified by her own conflicting feelings.

End OF VOL. I.

V

I.

j^-tSTr^Er

>^lpNPOJc'

w.

L I E) Mary

OF THE

U N I Vers City

Of ILLINOIS



M288p

V.3

DA

•4 i^ i'i i*i i'i i'i i'i t'J

U bring a I
its can be
inner than

ST.

Su

lie Governors
m to meet tk
glaboiirhood.
■T. Maiiy's is t
eves over Twi

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN



L161— O-1096

rhea



seed

IS

es

IT
C)
3h
s,
s,

annual SubsGAijjuiviio die iijAixiy illa J. ij 1 suiioiutju, list these lorn the STAPLE
Hospital Income. Donations and Subscriptions will be thankfully
lived by the Bankers, Sir Samuel Scott, Bat., & Co., 3, Cavendish
iare,\)r by the Secretary, at the Hospital. PIETRO Mitchell, Secretary .

5, CONDUIT STREET,

REGENT STREET, W.

Ladies' Costumes, Ulsters, &c.

m

Estimates for repairs, on town
or country examinations, furnished
free.

-inoA^j uo 9s^i[oinc[ jo noi^do
8i[!^ Slim poqqof dSmim;) Iuy



zi
O

^ c^

w.

<

i— I

O
H
CO rj

N pi
'S >

% ^

'% m

o
c

m

BY SPECIAL ^S^titf»W APPOINTMENT.

Mr. ROTHERHAM, Veterinary
Surgeon and Canine Pathologist by Special Appointment
to Hem. the Queen and Royal Family, may be consulted
from 2.0 until 5.30 daily (Saturdays and Sundays excepted
; upon those days by appointment). Fee, 2s. 6d.,
or, by letter, 3s. 6d.

The ROYAL CANINE SURGERY,

55, SOUTH MOLTON STREET, BOND STREET, W.
The Hospital, most healthily situated near ,
has well appointed and spacious Kennels for
large dogs, and every home comfort for pet dogs. The
exercising ground covers fifty acres of grass land.

J. ANDREWS,

BUILDER AND DECORATOR,
W' MOUNT STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

Speciality-SANATORY WORKS. AS CARRIED OUT
UNDER THE LEADING PROFESSORS OF HYGIENE.

Established 1824.

CHRISTOPHER S EWE LL,(Late shepherd)
4, Davies STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

Practical Goldsmith and Jeweller.

MOURNING AND BRIDAL GIFTS TO ORDER.

Watches, Clocks, Musical Boxes, Cleaned, Repaired, and adjusted by Experienced
Workmen, under persona! supervision.

CLOCKS WOUND BY CONTRACT.

Old Gold, Silver, and Precious Stones Exchanged or Purchased to any amount.

THE PRINCE'S PORT,

50 YEARS IN WOOD.

PALE COLOR. SOFT. DELICATE

Eminent authorities recommend this Port well
matured in Wood, not only for general consumption,
hut especially for the use of those suffering from gout.

In Portugal, where gout is unknown, this style of
Port is always used.

BERRY Bros & Cos,

SO?. Cr^IMIES's Silent:
LONDON, S.W.

ESTABLISHED 200 YEARS.

A detailed price-list Of Wines, Spirits, and Liqueurs on application

«

a

J. DAY & Son

PUBLISHERS & BOOKSELLERS,
16, MOUNT STREET, W.

H

s

u

LADIES' & GENTLEMEN'S

HUNTING, SHOOTING, & WALKING
BOOT MAKER,

52, SOUTH MOLTON ST., BOND ST., W.

Manufacturer of the Celebrated Edinburgh Boot Varnish Bleaching,
and Waterproof Leather Dressing.

MILITARY BOOTS.

Boots and Shoes to match Costumes.

Russia Leather Boots.

Waterproof Patent
Hunting Boots.

Improved Flexure Boots

Mountain Boots.

Skating Boots.

Brown Hide Boots for
Polo or the Colonies,

Racing Boots.

Lawn Tennis Shoes.

Slippers to any style.

LADIES' RIDING And HUNTING BOOTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.

Ic Shape of the Feet taken and Lasts Modelled on the onost approved
anatomical principles, and kept exclusively for each ciidonier.

W. Faulkner begs most respectfully to call the attention of Ladies and Gentlemen
to the BOOT 'L'REE Branch. Boot Trees assist to keep the boots in proper
shape, preventing them from wrinkling and shrinking after they have been worn
in the wet; they can be cleaned better, and do not require so much blacking,
thereby preventing the deleterious effect produced by its frequent application.

Lasts &. Boot Trees of every description Manufactured on the
Premises, at Most Reasonable Prices for Cash.

Ladies residing in the Country can have Boots or Boot Trees sent their exact
size by forwarding an Old Boot by Post.

173, NEW BOND STREET, W.,

ICES for BALLS, DINNER and GARDEN PARTIES,

IN NOVEL FRENCH STYLES,
PACKED TO TRAVEL 30 MILES.

CHOCOLATE & COFFEE IN PERFECT CONDITION.
DESSERTS AND FRENCH NOVELTIES

IN CONSTANT Variety.

W. p. LILLIORAPP & Co,

BY SPECIAL ^f^^S^K^^K^ APPOINTMENT

TO H R.H. THE ^ y'^^sSP^^^K^W^^X^ PRINCE OF WALES.

SEAL SKIN JACKET,

Jitr Cloak, sci, & (Jl^oat ilanitfaclttrm,

AND

GENERAL FUUmEUS,
27, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE.

SKINS DRESSED AND MOUNTED.

FURS Exchanged AMD TAKEN CARE OF.

HEAVENS,

HUNTING. RACING. AND STEEPLECHASE
28, SOUTH MOLTON ST., OXFORD ST.

RACING CAP AND JACKET MAKER. EXPORT SADDLER.

WITH SELF-FITTING ENDS

are made in sizes, 4, 6, 8, or 12 to lb., packed in 12 lb. wood cases, or in 3 lb. boxes.

PRICE 9d. PER LB.

M ARCHANT~&™sb N ,

Wax Chandlers and Oil Merchants,

59, Burners STREET, LONDON, W.

Ad at 160, NORTH STREET, BRIGHTON.

Paul's Fish Culture, C^ m, Euston Rd, N.W.

Trade Catalogue of the w^^^^ World's Fishes, Reptiles,
Amphibious, Press ^^"^l^^p Opinions, etc Stamp.

lOO GREEN TREE FROGS 40 > or ih EACH.
lOO GOLD FISH 30A- or 6d. EACH.

Patent Fish Kettle, extra Plants, Snails, Shingle Free, sent to any
part of the Kingdom. loo Carp, Tench, Dace, Roach, &c.; &c., 15/-.

PAUL'S AQUARIA MANAGEMENT,

Without changing the water. Description of Fish, Plants, Snails, &c.,

impost free.

PAUL'S FISH LIFE PRESERVER.

Prepared Fish Food ; invigorates the Fish, makes them grow, keeps
them healthy, full of fire and go. Packets, i '-, post jDaid.

6d. PAUL'S FISH CULTURE. 6d.

A Monthly Illustrated Journal, published to raise the neglected state
of Fish Culture to its earlier^Standard, to re-populate the rivers, ponds,
lakes, &:c. Every farmer, land or water owner, should study aqua-culture.
This journal gives valuable information how ;^400 PER YEAR
may be made out of one acre of Water.

GEO. Davies & SON,

Urethral Shirt anti €al\m ^taktrs,

HOSIERS AMD Outriders,
29, NORTH AUDLEY ST., GROSVENOR SQ., W.

FACTORY AT SHEPHERD'S Bush. ¥.

CARNABYN,

OR NOURISHING MEAT & MALT WINE.

Highly recommended by the MEDICAL FACULTY as an exceedingly
nourishing, digestive and Restorative compound.

DOSE— From Half to a Wingless 3 times a day.

Prepared HOOPER & COMY-.

Cfjemtsts, $cc,

55, GROSVENOR STREET, W. ^, LABORATORY,

And at 7, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON. J MITCHAM, SURREY.

In BOTTLES 2/6, 5/- & 7/6.

To be ohtainccl of all ClieinisU, Wine Merchants and Grocers throiiglwiU the

V nit eel King elo III.

J. DAY & SON'S

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER

SUITABLE FOR WRITING WITH QUILL OR STEEL PENS.
SAMPLES POST FREE.

JOHN DAY & SON,

16, IM: O TJ sr T Street,
LONDON. W.

BURKE'S LANDED GENTRY

A Genealogical a7td Heraldic History of the Landed
Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland.

BY

Sir Bernard Burke, Cab., LL.D.,

Ulster King-of-ArHii<.

Being a record of the Lineage, itc, of about 4,500 Families, with a description of
heir Arms, Crests. &c. Thoroughly Revised throughout. This edition of the
sanded Gentry has been compiled from communications made by the chiefs and
leads of Families from their private papers, traditions and genealogies. The great
^im has been to arrive at accuracy. and in order to attain this end, every available
ii'iource of information has been exhausted, and a correspondence carried on which
bias secured many thousands of communications from those most competent to
improve and correct the work. Apocryphal statements, which had crept into
former editions, have been expunged, erroneous particulars and incorrect descents
discovered and omitted, and some memoirs excluded as being no longer associated
with the possession of landed property.

Two Vols., Super Royal 8vo. Cloth gilt, price ^3 3s.

Burke's Peerage, Baronetage, Knightage, &c.

FOR 1887,

One Vol., Super Royal 8vo. Cloth gilt, price £i ipsa

LARGE Discount FOR CASH OFF THE ABOVE WORKS.

SOLD BY

JOHN DAY & SON,

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

Samples may be had post free on application.
16, MOUNT STREET, W

CAUTION TO LADIES.

Crystal Palace Bond's G-old Medal
Marking Ink.

Prepared by the Daughter, is the genuine, ask for and see you get it. In Her

Majesty's High Court of Justice another action, costs and damages against the

wrong-doers, for selling colourable imitations. Greatest Marking Ink Maker of

the World, larger sale than all others combined, 20 gold, other medals, and Royal

appointments to Crystal Palace Bond's.

CAUTION— We have no relations soliciting Orders.

CAUTION— John BOND'S EBONITE MARKING INK must not be heated
in the cloth. Especially adapted to Crystal Palace John Bond's india
rubber stamps, metal-bodied type, fee. Cheapest house in Europe. Trade only.
Works, 75, Southgate-road, London, N.

JOHN DAY & SON, Agents,

16, MOUNT STREET, GROSVENOR SQUARE, W.

DE LA RUE'S
DIARIES FOR 1887,

SOLD BY

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W.

Pettish's & BLACKWOOD'S

DIARIES FOR 1887.

SOLD BY

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W.

New and Second-hand

BILLIARD ^^g^^^^ BAGATELLE
and-^"^^^^^ TABLES,

In all Sizes and at all Prices.

Bill -A. I^ 3D B-A.I-.X.S,

CLOTHS, CHALKS, CUES, TIPS,

And all other Billiard Requisites.
WHOLESALE, llETAIL, cj- Poli Exportation.

OLD BALLS ADJUSTED OR EXCHANGED,

AND

TABLES RE-CUSHIONED and RE-COVERED,

Adjusted, Removed, Bought, Sold, or Warehoused,

And every kind of Billiard Work executed with dispatch & at moderate charges.

Price Lists, Cloth and Cushion Ruler Samples, Post Free.

When writing for Samples of the latter, please state for what kind of Table

they are wanted.

^/ HENNIG BROS.,

Q BILLIARD TABLE MAKERS,

W, Which ST., LONDON, W,C.

(Opposite St. Giles's Church.)
ESTABLISHED 1862.

Mr. JOHN D. WOOD,

Agent for
West-end HOUSES,

COUNTRY HOUSES,

SUMMER and RIVERSIDE HOUSES,

SHOOTINGS and FISHINGS,

HUNTING BOXES,

YACHTING HOUSES

Offces~lQ, MOUNT ST., LONDON. W.

H Grovel

BY

LADY MARGARET Majestie,

AUTHOR OF
FASCINATION,' ' Sisters-in-law,' ' THE TURN OF THE TIDE,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

^ttblislurs in Orbinarji) ter ^cr j^tajcstg i\\t Queen.

1887.

[All Rights Reserved.]

PRECAUTIONS

CHAPTER I.

HE morning was very fine; all the
tall French windows were set
wide open, the table drawn so
close to them that the hanging roses outside
and the gathered ones Within made
it seem a bower of flowers.

Kitty came down late. She looked white
and exhausted ; the heat oppressed her,
Alice had already fulfilled her duties, and
poured out the tea.

You are late, Kitty,' she exclaimed
VOL. Il 41

gaily ; ' so I have been doing all your
work.'

You should not be so late, Kitty,' said
Mrs. Brown Clifford. ' What would your
aunt have said in old days if you had
not been in jour place when the bell
rang ?'

Nous avons change tout cela said
Eustace lazily, and Kitty's timid look at
him was full of gratitude. He brought
her all she wanted. As his love failed,
his careful consideration for her increased
tenfold.

The newspapers always arrived at breakfasting;
they Twere brought in now.

When Kitty began her breakfast, Lady
Bellingham obtained her invariable second
cup of tea, and Mrs. Brown Clifford drew
her knitting from her bag. Eustace unfolded
one paper, and handed another to his
brother-in-law.

Alice drew her chair nearer to the window,
;ind beo-an to feed a little Italian greyhound
which was a pet of Kittle's. It was a
shiver little thing, with some of the dainty
timidity of its mistress, fastidious over its
saucer of cream, which it began, interrupting
itself every moment to look up at Alice with
alarmed eyes.

Presently Georgie gave a great start.
She was looking at her husband.

'What is the matter, Joe?' she exclaimed.
' Is there any bad news in the
paper ?

He cleared his throat loudly.

'Bad news? AVhat an idea! You are
very imaginative, Georgie.' He rapidly
folded u]) the paper, and exclaimed, ' What,
uU finished breakfast! Give me an eo-george.'


They are cold now she said, still
watching him.

41—2

But lie took it, broke the shell, began,
and put it aside.

'What a stiHino' monnno-!' he said.
Have you done, Kitty? What do you
say — shall we ceo out at once?'

Lady Bellingham looked at him with
astonishment; and Alice said, laughing:

If you are thirsting for a cigar, Joe,
do not wait for us. It is much too hot
to go out yet.'

Joseph Mulroy laid his hand heavily
on Its brother-in-law's shoulder.

Come out, Eustace,' he said,
Eustace's face was concealed by the payer.

He started and rose to his feet.

Come out, Eustace,' repeated Joe mechanically.


Eustace shook off his hand. He was very
white, his face set hard. Kitty saw it with
sudden terror. She clasped her hands,
and looked up at him with frightened eyes.

It is very hot,' he stammered.

Yes ; come with me, Eustace and again
he touched his arm.

Eustace turned round to his vdfe, trying
to force a smile.

You will excuse me, Kitty. You see,
Joe is so ardent a smoker that he cannot be
restrained.'

There is some bad news in the paper,'
said Mrs. Brown-clifford composedly, as the
two men disappeared through the open
window. ' The best thing we can do is
to look for ourselves, and get to the root of
the matter.'

She folded up her knitting, and took up
the paper that had filled to the ground.
It was one of the Society papers, and in
its columns was a detailed account of
the strange marriage ceremony which hud
taken place between Lord Austen and his
cousin Marion by the death-led of her

father. The story was told with dramatic
force.

]airs. Clifford read it to the end without
comment. Kitty came quietly forward, and
read over her shoulder. Then she stood
for a moment, the room reeling round her,
with both her hands clinging for support to
the back of her mother's chair.

The first sensation was one of the extremest
happiness. Marion was married!
Would not this be the one thing that would
give her the undivided love of her own
husband ? Then cold with a sudden chill
swept across her the sight of Eustace's
stricken face.

She reeled slightly'; she Avould have done
so more, but her mother turned half round,
put her arm round her, and held her firmly,
casting looks that could only mean defiance
on all about her.

Alice, who had also hastily glanced at.

the paper, saw this look. A kind of hostility
burnt in her breast. She saw not Kitty's
white face and little convulsive hands
struggling against the deadly faintness that
was stealing over her senses ; she only sa^^^
in her the woman v/ho she thought had
wrecked her brother's happiness.

'I do not see why you should look as if
some great misfortune had happened she
said bitterly. ' Surely, Kitty, this news
should be welcome to you.'

I do not see that,' said Mrs. Brown-clifford
; ' on the contrary, it ought to be a
matter of profound indifference to her, to
you, and to your brother.'

'You cannot expect us to see it in the
same light,' said Lady Bellingham, trying
to speak with polite ease. ' To me this
news is quite delightful. It puts an end
to many anxieties respecting my dear
niece's future ; it ensures her happiness,.

Altogether, I shall claim your congratulations.'


Your son ought to be ashamed of himself,'
said Mrs. Brown-Clifford.

It Alas as if a thunderbolt had fallen in
their midst. This dreadful old woman was
(suite capable of putting into words all that
for so long they had so studiously laboured
to ignore — all but Alice. Alice had never
ceased to resent Eustace's marriage. Only
conventionalities had held her silent. The
breaking down of the barrier seemed to her
almost a relief.

You dare not repeat such words of my
brother !' she said haughtily.

Hoity-toity !' exclaimed Mrs. Brown-clifford.
' Dare ! That is a strong word,
young lady.'

Mamma, mammal' ]panted poor Kitty.

But Mrs. Brown Clifford only led her
towards the door.

Go to your room, Kitty she said, ' and
stay there. The time has come which I
have long seen approaching, and I must
have it out with these women.'

Kitty knew how useless it was for her to
offer the smallest opposition to her inexorable
parent. In an agony of fear and
.shame, she fled away along the passages,
striving to shut out all sounds from her
ears.

Mrs. Brown-Clifford went back to the
dining-room table and sat down.

stow wee will have it out,' she said
grimly.

Lady Bellingham spoke first.

Mrs. Clifford,' she said with a forced
laugh, ' you remind me of Don Quixote
tilting with the windmills. Would it not
be better to let us go on in our perpetual
round ?'

Grinding hearts into flour.'

Alice started forward indignantly.

What are you aiming at ?' she exclaimed.
What is it that you wish to insinuate?'

Nothing at all. I only speak in the
plainest Queen's English. Between you all
you have broken my daughter's heart.'

You exaggerate in the strangest w^ay/
said Lady Bellingham. ' Kitty's complaints
must proceed from her own imagination.
Many young wives are exacting.' •

Kitty never complains.'

Then, pardon me, it is a little difficult to
understand.'

None so blind as those that won't see.
Why, your son's face, when he read that
news this morning, Alas the face of a man
who had received a mortal blow; and I
defy you to deny it!'

This is intolerable !' exclaimed Alice.

'Intolerable, you call it? You are not
far wrong: there. It is so intolerable that

the time has come for her mother's interference.'


I cannot see what fault you can find
with my son,' said Lady Bellingham. ' His
conduct to his wife has been exemplar' ;
if you wish to make it otherwise, you have
only to ]pursue the course you have now
entered upon.*

Why did he look like that ?'

Why ?' exclaimed Alice vehemently.
^ I think you are the very last person in the
world who should ask Why. Because he saw
in this paper the saddest story yon could
wish to see — the forced marriage of the
woman he once loved to a man whom she
cannot love — detailed in it, and he pitied
her fate.'

You jump to conclusions, and you miscalculate
the mixed motives that actuate
people's actions!' exclaimed Mrs. Clifford,
^ Why do you calumniate your friend ?

Why do you assume that she does not lovelier
husband?'

We need not enter into the question of
her feelings,' said Alice haughtily.

You yourself began it. Is that the only
reason that Eustace turned whiter than snow,
hind looked as he did just now — because he
]pitied the girl who in following his owen
example made as good a match as he did
himself? Nonsense!'

Alice Alas so angry that she forgot herself.
She spoke calmly, but she said words she
ought never to have uttered.

You knoAv better than I do how the
whole thing was brought about. You
accuse my brother of mercenary motives in
his marriage, and I emphatically deny
them.'

Mrs. Brown Clifford gave one of her
significant snorts. Lady Bellingham came
forward and caught hold of Alice's hand.

Alice, Alice I' she exclaimed ; ' take care
what you say.'

But Alice would not listen,

I will not be silent,' she said, ' and hear
Eustace accused of dishonourable conduct.
You yourself, mamma, know better ; and
in case Mrs. Clifford does not choose to
know, I will repeat it. Eustace married
Ivitty solely and entirely out of compassion,
because he was told distinctly that she was
]pining away because she cared for him, and
he would not let another suffer what he was
bearing with such heroism : that was the
conduct of my noble, generous brother.
Kitty' has had what she wanted ; she knew
his whole story, and if she is not satisfied
it is '

The words died away on her lips. There,
just within the door, clinging to the handle,
white, and trembling from head to foot,

stood little Kitty. She must have heard
every word.

She came forward into the room, turning
from one to another, her hands clasped,
with a look of agonized entreat, and her
voice was almost shrill as she cried :

Alice ! tell me it is not true ! Mother,
mother ! Lady Bellingham ! tell me that it
is not true !*

There was no answer. AVhat could they
say ?

Alice was horror-stricken at the effect of
her own words ; she would have given all
she possessed for the power of unsaying
them. The agony in Kitty's face haunted
her for many a long day afterwards.

Kitty, looking from one to another, fancied
she only read compassion in their downcast
faces. A cry that was half-moan, half-wail,
burst from her lips.

Oh, mother ! — Alice ! I am ashamed —

I am ashamed ! What shall I do ?' she

cried.

Georgie came forward suddenly, speaking

abruptly.

All that you have to do, Kitty, is to
forget all that you have heard, and that has
been said. Xever mind how your marriage
was brought about, or motives one way or
another. You and Eustace belong to each
other ; nothing can do away with that,
thank God !'

But Kitty did not seem to hear her. She
put both her hands to her temples, thrusting
them into the fair dishevelled hair, and she
went away so, out of the room, down the
passage. They could hear the little moans
of anguish, wrung from, her as she went,
all the way to her own room ; then the
closing and locking of the door.

The others looked at each other awestricken.
It was too serious now to resume

the angry conversation. Alice went away
\w bitter tears of sorrow and repentance for
her hasty words ; the other Ladies talked in
whispers, almost friends m their mutual
anxiety about the poor young wife.

CHAPTER 11.

HE morning passed on leaden
wings; it seemed as if the hours
would never pass.
Alice, in her own room, worked herself
up into a frenzy of misery about her brother.
He had always been the idol of her life, his
happiness her first and principal thought.
She fancied that he must be sufferings
cruelly ; she was unnerved by all that had
taken place, and everything jarred upon her.
At luncheon, it was almost a shock when
Eustace came in, looking absolutely the
same as usual — perhaps rather more than
VOL. III. 42

usually bright and alert — after a long walk
with his brother-in-law through woods and
new plantations. He spoke with interest,
and was full of outdoor plans and improvements.
Alice, in the revulsion of feeling:,
thought him heartless. She could not
understand it.

He asked for Kitty, but a servant had
brought a message that she had a bad headache,
and begged not to be disturbed ; he
expressed himself not satisfied, and, leaving
his untasted luncheon, went off to her
boudoir.

Alice looked after him with the strange
perverse feeling in her heart that he was
neither faithful nor true ; she could not
have put it into Avords, but to see his
trouble cured was grief, not pleasure, to her.

Eustace went to his wife's room, and
entered very softly. She was lying back
in a large armchair, in her soft pale-blue

grown, her hair pushed back, her eyes closed,
her whole attitude sad and dispirited. He
came close to her, kneeling' on one knee,
and taking' her little cold hands in his :

o

Kitty dear,' he said gently, ' are you in
pain ?'

She looked up at him, reading nothing
in his eyes but a look of kind compassion.
She saw nothing more there — nothing of
the great tenderness of strength for the
fragile and weak that was welling up in his
breast — nothing of that protecting affection
that has something of a father's instinct in
it, which made him feel that this little wife
of his needed all his strength and care, and
that this fact of her great need of him was
opening to her the great store of love that
had been closed against her while he only
thought of himself.

All this was a sealed book to her. She
read only the pity from which she shrank

42—2

with a kind of terror, because lie had
learned so rudely that the whole sacrifice
of his life and happiness was due to that,
and that her love for him had proved his
very bane.

Kitty felt the clasp of his hands, and
looked up into his face — that face that
seemed to her the noblest, handsomest on
earth; she laid her head down for a moment
on his breast ; she clasped her arms round
his neck, and held him fast.

^ Kitty,' he repeated, ' are you suffering,
dear?'

But she could not answer ; the words
would have choked her ; the terrible pain
in the throat stopped their utterance. He
only saw the drawn look of suffering
on her white forehead, and thought it
physical.

Poor child ! poor little thing !' he said
tenderly'.

He rearranged her pillows, he closed the
blinds, then came back and stood beside her
lingeringly.

I had better leave you in peace, dear?'
he said ; and she answered whisperingly,
Yes. Go — go!'

He stooped down and kissed her brow ;
still under the same impression, she shrank
away a little from his kiss. Then he went
away, pausing to look back, and haunted
by some look in her eyes that he had never
seen before — a look so wistful, so piteous,
that he felt a sudden pang of fear at his
heart, not knowing what it meant.

Kitty sent word by her maid that no one
was to disturb her until she rang her bell,
so that they fancied she hoped to sleep ;
and the others arranged their own plans for
the afternoon.

Five o'clock came, and she did not
appear. Gathering round the tea-table,

they congratulated themselves on the length
and quiet of her rest.

At seven o'clock, Eustace came in again
and asked for his wife, still learning that
she had not rung, and must not be disturbed.


The time passed on ; they all met at
dinner, and in the midst of it Eustace rose
up and said that, in spite of his wife's wish,
he should take up some soup for her — she
had eaten nothing since breakfast. Alice
said that she thought Kitty would rather
not be disturbed ; but he only frowned
slightly, and said that it was not good for
her. And he went upstairs.

Some time passed ; the conversation
dragged, the dinner seemed tasteless and
bad ; only Mrs. Brown-Clifford, whose appetite
never flagged, plodded slowly on
through course after course. No one quite
knew why this gloom had fallen upon them,

but it seemed as if trouble were in the air,
and as if there were nothing unexpected in
the long delay, and in the curious look on
Eustace's face when he did return.

Kitty must have gone out,' he said,
speaking hoarsely. ^ Did anyone know of
her intention? She is not in her room.'

She must be in the garden,' said
Georgie. ' She often sits there after
dinners

She is not in the garden — I have looked.
Did she say that she was going out ? Alice,
what is the matter? Why do you look so
pale?'

Nothing ; I am all right,' answered
Alice.

She was trying to control her trembling
limbs ; a deadly fear Alas in her mind.
She saw the others glance at her, and, as if
in a dream, she saw the look in Eustace's
face suddenly growing suspicious.

What is the matter ?' he exclaimed,
looking at the conscious faces. ' What
have you been doing to my wife?' He
caught hold of his mother's hand. ' You,
at least, never scruple to tell me plain unvarnished
truth!' he exclaimed. 'Tell me
why you all look like that, mother!'

Mrs. Brown-Clifford broke the silence.

Why, because if your wife is missing, if
you find her lying at the bottom of the
lake, you have only to thank yourselves for
it !' she exclaimed.

'Do not speak like that!' cried Joseph
Mulroy loudly. ' It is all nonsense I Why
do we linger like this ? let us go and find
her.'

It is all Alice's fault, Eustace,' cried
Lady Bellingham, ' so do not look at me.
Alice told her wiry you married her.'

'I did not! I did not!' cried Alice
passionately.

No, no!' cried Georgie. ' Angry words
were passing — unfortunately dear Kitty
heard.'

Heard what? What did you say?' he
cried, turning fiercely upon his sister.

Alice was desperate.

'I told nothing but the truth!' she exclaimed
; ' that you married her out of
compassion for her love of you.'

For one moment his head sank on his
breast.

My poor little wife !'

Then he pushed aside the hand Alice
laid on his shoulder; with a violent effort
he suppressed the passionate reproaches
that rose to his lips, and mastering himself,
spoke with rapid decision.

Mulroy, will you come with me ? There
will be matters to arrange. Mother, will
you kindly order some dinner to be kept hot
for Kitty when she comes in ? Come, Joe.'

Alice, with a little faint cry, caught at
his hand as he passed, but failed ; he would
not, could not, even look at her — the blow
had been too keen.

Mrs. Brown-clifford's voice followed them
shrilly.

Have the lake dragged, Sir Eustace!'

Once outside the door, Eustace's firmness
for one instant gave way to terror.

Joe !' he exclaimed, grasping him With
painful force ; 'this will have killed her.'

^ 1^0, no ! a thousand times no ! Kitty is
as good as an angel.'

A thought of Kitty's goodness ; of her
loving, gentle faith ; of the little set phrases,
almost like maxims, that she sometimes
used to express the good and holy thoughts
that passed through her mind — all this
flashed through his brain. They had wearied
him in his selfish clinging to that which
was gone, but now it came back to him

with a flash of hope that Kitty was very
good — she would have strength to suffer
and to bear.

He groaned aloud.

What shall we do ? How shall we set
to work, Joe?' he said.

Before Mr. Mulroy could answer, someone
came running up to them in the
hall. It was Kitty's maid — her eyes red
with weeping. She held a letter in her
hand.

Sir Eustace, a boy has just brought this.
He says her ladyship gave it to him at the
station, and that she went up to London by
the four o'clock train.'

Joseph Mulroy looked the congratulations
he could not utter as the maid went lingeringly
away. He opened the door of the
billiard-room, and they Avent in. He hesitated
whether he should leave his brother-in-law
to read the letter alone ; but a glance

at his ashy face made him resolve not to do
so. He went away to a distant window,
and stood there waiting.

There was a long silence. Then Joseph
turned round. Sir Eustace had thrown
himself into a chair and covered his face
with one hand ; the other was extended on
a table, the letter crumpled in it.

She is all right, old fellow, eh?' said Joe,
trying to speak cheerily.

Eustace tossed the letter towards him.

Am I to read it?' he said hesitatingly.

^ Yes, read it. For her sake, the more
publicity that it lias the better,' he answered
bitterly. ' She is so young, so utterly inexperienced
; she little knows what she has
done.*

But does she give no address ? Of course
we must find her at once, and set this
miserable misunderstanding right,' he said
eagerly.

Eustace only made a quick gesture, and
he took up the letter and read :

^ Dear, dear Eustace,

I have learnt the truth at last ; but
I want YOU to believe that I did not know
it, that if I had had even the smallest suspicion
that you wished to marry me out of
compassion I would never have done it. I
could not have accepted such a sacrifice. I
am so sorry — so very sorry. I thought you
asked me because I could be a comfort to
you, and because you could some day learn
to love me. But now I know the truth I
hardly know how to bear it.

Darling, I cannot undo the fatal knot
that binds you to me. I cannot set you
free ; but at least I can remove myself out
of your way, and then you will be more at
ease again. And my greatest happiness
would be to know that you had returned to

your old peaceful life without the burden of
a wife you cannot love, and then you can
forget me. Do forget me, darling ! Shut
me away out of your life as if I had never
been ; and try to be hapjoy again. Do not
look for me — let me go. I want to go and
hide away my sorrow, and try to forget
that my love has proved so terrible a
misfortune to you. I would free you if I
could, but my life belongs to God.

Darling, I did not know — believe me
that I did not know — or I would never,
never have been your wife.

Kitty.'

Joe Mulroy's eyes were blinded with tears
as he laid the letter down.

What do you mean to go ?' he said
earnestly.

Do ! Move heaven and earth to find her,
and to prove to her '

He stopped. Joe put his hand upon his
shoulder.

^ If you have no love to give her, Eustace,'
he said, ' in mercy to her would it not be
best to let her be T

Eustace made an impatient gesture.
Love, love !' he exclaimed. ' It is always
the same jargon. It is not like May. A
man can only love like that once in this life;
but this is different.'

Yes,' Fait Joe eagerly ; ' but can you
convince her of that?'

My poor little wife !' he exclaimed.
How can I atone? What can I say?'
A little love.'

I don't know what you call love, Joe.
Is it enouii^h that I feel that I cannot live
without her ?'

She will come back. It will be all right,'
said Joseph Mulroy hopefully.

UT the days and weeks went by,
and Kitty did not come back.
Eustace was not content to wait.
He put the management of the search
into the hands of private police ; he
spared neither time nor effort himself, but
all with no result. It was a simple fact
that, on that fatal day in July, young Lady
Bellingham had gone up to London by a
four o'clock train. Her maid said that she
must have worn a simple black cachemire
gown that was missing. On reaching
London, who would have remarked a very

quiet, slender little woman in black, who
quickly walked away from the train and
disappeared ? The detectives were baffled
by the very simplicity of the thing, and
were quite without a clue.

Eustace would not give up hope as the
time passed ; he continued the search with
a feeling occasionally of absolute despair.
Xever had he even guessed for a moment
how dear his little gentle wife had become
to him. Remorse pressed painfully upon
him for his deficiencies towards her. He
longed to find her passionately, and to plead
for forgiveness and reconciliation. He
would not leave Castleford ; he fancied that,
if she ever changed her mind, she would
come back there.

Lady Bellingham came and established
herself with him, resuming her old duties
as mistress of the house ; and Alice came
with her. But Alice did not stay long. Do

VOL. III. 43

what lie would to conceal it, Eustace could
not forgive her ; it seemed to him that her
cruel words had wilfully hunted Kitty
away. Even her wistful, sorrowful looks
did not soften him. He tried hard to be the
same to her, but he could not. All the
more for the unusual affection and confidence
that had always existed between them
did the revulsion of feeling strike him and
make him hard.

Poor Alice suffered greatly. She had
fancied herself his best friend — his truest
and most faithful friend ; the only one who
shared and kept up by her intense sympathy
the constant remembrance of his old love
for Marion. sow suddenly, and with
agony, she had seen her conduct in its true
light. She saw that little Kitty's faithful,
gentle love mis^ht have won her husband
had she had quite fair play, and (bitterest
pang of all) she realized that Eustace had



been fast learning to be consoled. In bitter
tears she bemoaned her own conduct. Very
timidly she tried to win back her position
in her brother's confidence, but it was too
soon; and feeling that she could not bear it,
she left Castleford, and went to stay with
the Milroy in London.

Mrs. Brown-Clifford returned to Richmond.
She took no alarm ; she had a
strong conviction that Kitty would reappear
some day, and meanwhile was not sorry
that all her new family should be pretty
severely punished, for they deserved it, in
her opinion.

That the punishment was very severe no
one could doubt who saw Eustace's thin,
haggard face, from which all the light of
youth seemed to have faded. She might
even have pitied him.

The London season was drawing towards
an end. The Milroy had refused all invi-

43—2

nations ; in the condition of sorrow and
suspense in which the family was plunged,
they had neither heart nor inclination for
gaiety. Alice also was an anxiety'. Her
courage and strength had alike given way ;
she suffered from painful fits of crying and
subsequent prostration, and took no interest
in anything.

Joseph Mulroy was kindness itself, but
he was uncongenial to Alice. His views of
art, the painting in which he delighted, and
which Alice condemned as so unskilful —
all gave her a feeling of contempt for him.
Georgie saw it, she understood it thoroughly.
She also had experienced it, but it was
different now. She knew that her Joe was
not clever; she knew that he was uneducated
; that he was insignificant in
appearance, and in no way a shining light ;
but what did that matter to her ? He washer
husband — first, foremost, all in all to

her, and she resented the feelings she perceived
in Alice, in spite of her strong efforts
to conceal them. There was sorrow and
bitterness among them all.

One day Joseph Mulroy came in with a
brighter look than usual on his face.

Who do you think I have seen ?' he
said eagerly.

Alice, dio was lying reading listlessly
on a sofa, looked up with so sudden a start
of hope and expectation that good kind Joe
bitterly reproached himself for his mode of
announcement.

^ Xo, no!' he exclaimed sorrowfully; 'not
Kitty yet ; we must wait a little longer for
that! It is our old acquaintance Ursel.
He has come to London.'

Alice had sunk back wearily, and with
indifference ; but Georgie, who had her very
ugly, good-tempered baby on her knee,
turned round seemingly :

My dear Joe, that is good news. I do
believe that that would please and interest
Eustace

I think Eustace would rather be left
alone,' said Alice.

No, 1 don't agree with you,' answered
Georgie determinately. ' Staying on week
after week at Castleford with mamma, as he
is doing now, must be bad for him, especially
as mamma is in the humour for telling
home-truths all round ; and we all know
what that means.'

I am sure he would not leave home.'

It would be a great gain to break
through his miserable waiting there,' said
Joe gently. ' I think you must think so
too, Alice ; and if it would interest him
to meet this man again, and perhaps to
hear him play, it would be such a good
thing.*

I am the last person to consult about

Eustace's feelings or wishes,' said poor
Alice. ' I know nothing of them now.'

Unwilling to notice her struggle with the
tears that would come, Joe Mulroy took the
crowing, kicking baby in his arms, and went
on talking to Georgie.

There is something peculiarly winning
about Ursel. I feel the fascination almost
as much as Eustace does, and I never saw
any fellow so fascinated as he was.*

Where did you meet him ? What is he
doing in London?'

I met him at Novello's. He was buying
fiddle-strings. You never saw anything so
minute as his examination of each separate
one. I believe he would have been hours
over it if I had not come in. He jumped
up and held out his hands with such a
radiant look, and then the first thing was,
Where was Eustace? and — all of you?
But it is Eustace whom he likes so much.'

Is lie playing here? Why have we not
heard of him ? He must make a great
sensation.'

He is to play for the first time to-night.
It is this wretched impresario who has
brought him to London, and Avill pocket
all his gains, clinging round him like an
old man of the sea, so that he will make no
fortune until his time is up.'

Did you tell him about Eustace's loss ?'
said Alice, rather suddenly.

Xo/ answered her brother-in-law. ' I saw
no necessity for entering into particulars.'

Where does he play?' asked Georgina.

' At St. James's Hall. Shall I try and
get you places ?'

I should like it of all things, but '

Do not take one for me,' said Alice. ' I
could not go.'

Oh, then perhaps 1 had better not do so
either.'

^ But Joseph Mulroy interposed. He
Avant his wife to go. He thought it
wouki do her good, and it was gloomy at
home now. He could not help being conscious
of Alice's feeling for him. His
intuitive tact and insight were as sensitive
as the needle to the pole, and though, in
the beautiful humility of his character, he
accepted it as a matter of course, arid by no
means a subject of resentment, yet in someway
it weighed on and depressed his spirits.

Come with me, Georgie,' he said, rather
imploringly; and after that nothing would
have prevented her from going.

Alice stayed at home, but she did not goto
bed. She sat up till her sister and
brother-in-law returned, very late, from
St. James's Hall.

The effect of Ursel's playing had surpassed
their wildest expectations. He had
made a tremendous success.

His fortune is made said Joe exultantly.
' I do not think anyone has been
applauded so much since Paganini

Did he play his best ?'

He was as honos as usual tuning that
one string; but then it was marvellous, as
it always is. I did so long for Eustace to
be here. He would have enjoyed his friend's
triumph.'

It is very late,' said Alice, stiffening at
the mention of her brother's name.

She took her candle and went away to
bed. The next day a persuasive note from
Mr. Mulroy brought Ursel to luncheon.

The last two years had wrought some
changes in the great maestro. He looked
older, less simple, and there was an alteration
in his dress and the manner of wearing
it. Society had touched him with her
civilizing finger. But in one respect he
was quite the same. He still passed his

hand through his fair bushy hair in moments
of shyness or perplexity.

He asked eagerly after Eustace, and was
much disappointed when he heard that he
was not in London. His next question,
about his friend's young wife, was more
difficult to answer. They looked at each
other with embarrassment, and Joe began,
with much hesitation :

Unfortunately there has been a slight
misunderstanding.'

Ursel looked up with a start. Alice's
cheeks were scarlet, her lips quivering.
She took up the story herself.

My brother's wife has left him, Herr
Ursel/ she said.

He looked puzzled and grieved, but made
no remark beyond a little bow and a short
'Ah! so?'

The visit was rather a failure. Mulroy
had not the power of drawing out Ursel's

strange charm, and neither Georgie nor
Alice took part in the conversation. When
he was going away Ursel said to his host :

To-morrow, and next day, and Friday I
play ; on Saturday I am free. Would it be
allowed, do you think, that I should go
down to Castleford ?'

My brother-in-law would, I know, be
glad to see you ; I am sure of it,' said Joe
emphatically.

'I weill carry my welcome with me. I
will take Melusina ; she soothes trouble as
David's harp soothed Saul. And he is in
trouble — is it not so?'

In bitter trouble,' answered Joe Mulroy.

So.'

The answer was very simple.

On the following Saturday Ursel, carrying
his violin-case in his hand, quietly
walked up to the door at Castleford.

Sir Eustace was not at home, but he was

told that he would soon return, and left in
the smoking-room.

When Eustace came in tired and dispirited,
the first sound he heard was the wonderful
tones of Melusina. He recognised them
at once, and with one bound found himself in
the presence of the musician. IJrsel broke
off suddenly, and came forward to meet him.

Two years since we met,' he said in
those quiet tones which took away from
the abruptness of his words. ' Much has
happened since then.'

To you it has been one unbroken ascent
up the ladder of success. Is it not so?'

Yes ; but I also have suffered.'
Madame Ursel ?'

The musician turned away his face ; the
light fell on his steady blue eyes.

Yes,' he said gravely ; ' my wife is dead.'

Dead ! my poor friend ! This is indeed
unexpected.'

I was very sorry,' he said. ' Poor
Assunta! I was very fond of her. She
did not love the violin ; our thoughts and
ideas were not one, but she was young and
very happy.'

It is sad for the young and happy to
die.'

^ Do yoQ think so? jSTot for them. Better
to die in the glory of life than to fade in its
shadow. She Alas gentle, she was innocent;
she is in Paradise.'

And you, my friend ?'

I have learnt a truer, loftier happiness
in the exercise and perfection of my art.'

^ Then you do not suffer now ?'

My suffering has taught me passion.
Melusina interprets it to the world. No
great result can be produced without pain.
You cannot call my playing cold now ?'

Cold ! Did I ever think it cold?'

I have improved,' said Ursel quietly.

I will play to you ; I will play on your
heart-strings as I used to do, shall I not ?'

Not yet, not now ; in a few minutes.
You know my trouble ? There are wounds
worse than death.'

*No, you mistake. All other troubles
bear in them the germ of future hope.
Death only is irremediable, inexorable, and
for which there is found no help.'

You ! What do you know of life or
death or sorrow ?' exclaimed Eustace passionately.
' You have never lived, you
have never loved — you exist in the world of
imagination ; your woes are fictitious, your
joys and griefs bodiless as the music which
represents your soul !'

Ursel looked thoughtful.

Am I not mortal too ?' he said.

Not yet,' answered Eustace ; ' it is still
to come. Poor Assunta, poor pretty little
soul ! Did it grieve her to leave you ?'

I do not know,' said Ursel, a troubled
look passing over his face ; ^ it would have
grieved her more if they had not laid her
little dead baby on her breast, and told her
they were going together.'

Ah !' said Eustace.

He could say no more. He remembered
the bright, foolish little wife with pain, and
it seemed to him that Ursel, in his music-world,
knew nothing of human life.

Will you play to me ?' he said, after a
pause. ' I long to hear Melusina again.'

As he leaned back listening, he wondered
whether the passion of that wonderful music
was real or fictitious ; then whether the
world of imagination or the material world
was the most real, the most actual. The
lovely harmony affected him powerfully' ;
but through it all the thought of bright
little gay Assunta lying white and dead, with
her little baby on her cold breast, brought
the tears to his eves.

m EUSTACE persuaded Ursel
to spend Sunday with bim.
Lady Bellingham had never
cared for her son's friend, but she could not
complain of his presence, for it was the first
circumstance that brought back one ray of
interest or pleasure to his life. It broke
through the deadly monotony of the days
at Castleford, which was beginning to tell on
her also. For a time she had solaced herself
with the home-truths to which Geordie
had alluded. There was a kind of finite
force about them that was agreeable and

VOL. ir.



sustaining to her ; but, unfortunately, they
seemed somewhat to have lost their power
to stings. Her son was too listless to heed
the constant repetition of the wholesome ' I
told you so,' and of late Lady Bellingham
had ended her little homilies with a weary
yawn. Her brother, at least, was a more
satisfactory victim. The worthy Rector
was overwhelmed with remorse at the part
that he himself had played in the tragedy,
and it was a real source of comfort to Lady
Bellingham that she had him to torment.
They wondered how it would all end, when
Eustace would rouse himself and go away,
or take any kind of step. There was nothing
for it but patience. Eustace himself
knew neither what to do nor whither to go,
or, indeed, whether it would be best to go
or stay. He was utterly miserable ; he had
upon him a crushing sense of failure in
every undertaking in life. His old regiment

was abroad on active duty. He would have
given the world to have been with them had
he still had that duty to fulfil; but he felt
that he could not, and ought not, to leave
England. Sometimes he shrank from
moving, at others he loathed every road,
every wall, every tree of his beloved old
home, feeling as if they asked him what he
had done with the little tender young wife
to idiom he owed so much.

He and Ursel wandered together all
through the woods. To the musician they
seemed a very fairyland of beauty, and his
native admiration pleased his host. They
passed through the same paths in which
Eustace had first met Kitty, and walked
with her through the lights and shadows,
listening to the gentle voice which his heart
so ached to hear once more. He remembered
her quiet words, her sympathy, the
little set phrases in which she expressed

44—2

herself: they all came home to him so
vividly that he could not suppress a sigh so
bitter that it was almost a groan.

Ursel looked at him with compassion.

Let us sit down,' he said. ' You
English do not put your sad thoughts into
words, and I also am like an Englishman
in that ; but there are times when it is well
to break through this cold reserve. Life is
short; one does not want one's heart to
break.'

Tell me about yourself,' said Eustace,
throwing himself on the turf ' That is far
more interesting to me than anything relative
to my own affairs.'

A man who has in his life one great and
absorbing thought, as I have,' said Ursel
thoughtfully, ' cannot understand quite why
you others make so much of domestic life.
To you, it is all in all ; to us, it is but the
background of the picture.'

Is it so T said Eustace. ' Then to you
your music is the actual reality — not the
representation or interpretation of reality ?'

Ah ! there we musicians are different
from you. Of course it is reality. You
figure to yourselves a thousand interpretations
of the music to which you listen —
fictitious fancies ; but one thing is actual —
the music which has no interpretation, for
it is an ego of its own. The great composers
saw no visions of love or beauty or
the forces of Nature in their works : they
were absorbed in a higher culte than human
nature offered them, and that culte is Harmony.'


Then you hold yourselves above the
joys and woes of common men ?'

Ursel paused a moment, and then said
deliberately :

Yes ; were it otherwise, we should not
be great.'

^ Ambition versus happiness.'

You put it so. Well, I accept it.
Happiness ! why, happiness is not worth a
thought. Who would not sacrifice it to
ambition, to success, to work, to unknown
possibilities ? There is but one perfect
satisfaction of ourselves on earth.'

And that is '

To be Lord Mayor of London.'

My dear Ursel !'

It is so. The highest ambition of the
aspirant attained, he can mount no higher.
It lasts a year, he is saved from satiety,
and he possesses for his ripe old age the
glorious memory of what has been. Do
not laugh.'

Ah ! do you remember telling me that
you were not ambitious V

Did I so ? The day was when applause
was nothing to me.'

'And now?'

I could not live without it he said, low
and eagerly.

Tell me said Eustace, ^ did this ambition
of yours wake up when your wife
died ?

No, no ; before that. I do not think,' he
went on slowly, ' that Assunta's death had
any very great or marked effect upon my
life ; as I said before, to men like myself
domestic bliss is not the prominent thought
of life. I grieved for her. Do not mistake
me.'

Ah ! but Ursel, forgive me, did you
ever know love — what I call love? Assunta
was very sweet and young and gay,
but '

She is dead!' said Ursel softly; and his
friend felt that he could say no more.

There was a pause, then Ursel spoke
suddenly and vehemently :

We talk of ambition, but it is difficult

for a man to rise who is fettered as I am —
bound band and foot. I am not my own
master ; my very art is the property of
another man. It is bard to suffer for the
ignorance of one's youth !'

Can nothing be done ? Could you not
pay off this imjiresario f

Pay bim off ! by borrowing the money
on my prospects at a big rate of interest
that is, by exchanging one master for
another.*

We will talk it over together, and consult
Mulroy. You would not object,
Ursel ?'

Object ? No, no ! You have been too
good a friend to me for that. Ah!' cried
the musician, throwing wide his arms. ' If
I could be free, I should indeed be a happy
man !'

The same good fairy who sent you
Melusina might come forward once more.'

Ah, who knows ?' Ursel laughed gleefully.
' Melushia and I might rule the
music world if we were but free. Do
you remember your telling me that
no man knew himself until he had succeeded
?'

Yes,' answered Eustace. ' And you
answered me that no man kncAV himself
until he had failed.'

'Failure, failure !' cried Ursel. 'That is
a bitter word.'

So bitter,' answered Eustace, ' that you
may pray to God, night and day, to send
you any form of trial rather than that ; for
it saps the very root of life, and, by destroying
self-confidence, diminishes all future
possibilities.'

My poor friend !'

Then it is settled,' said Eustace abruptly.
I shall go up to London with you tomorrow.
We will consult Mulroy, and see

my lawyer, and consider what can be
done.'

You will come with me ?'

I will.'

I am glad indeed.'

Great was Lady Bellingham's astonishment
when she heard that Eustace was
going away the next day. She found it
necessary to blame his doing so ; but in her
heart of hearts she was overjoyed. She
could not have endured her present life
much longer.

Sir Eustace departed, full of interest in
the object of his journey. But, strange to
say, a sense of disappointment had come
over him in his intercourse with Ursel. Informer
days he had felt that he exercised
an extraordinary influence over him ; but
now this influence seemed to have vanished
to be merged into admiration for the great
musician, for the rising man. Ursel was no



longer the strangely sympathetic, thoughtful
man he had known and loved. His thoughts
and mind and soul were now so wrapped
up in his art and its success that he dwelt
in a separate world. The great maelstrom
of triumph had seized him in its dizzy grasp.
The old self was gone for ever.

USTACE and Ursel parted at the
railway-station; the former to
go to his own house in Eaton
Square, the latter to return to his many
engagements.

The rooms of his London house were to
Eustace haunted by remembrances of his
young wife. How gaily they had furnished
them together ! How bright and sweet and
sunshiny she had been for a short time at
the beginning of their married life, before
the blight of disappointment had begun to
wither the hope in her breast! Looking

back at those days, he found it difficult to
analyze his o^Yn feelings. He had been very
fond of her then. It might have ripened
into warmer feeling but for the strong,
though unexpressed, opinion which shone
through every word and action of his
favourite sister, that he was bound to be
faithful to the memory of past days.

He now realized that women dwell on
trifles in a way that men little dream of.
A careless word, a little slighting action,
which are forgotten by them as soon as done
or uttered, live in the woman's heart and
give her pain years after she has forgiven, but
has never forgotten. And so a mere look,
a quick caress, a tender word, will often, as
the long dark years roll onward, be more
glowing landmarks in their memory than
tangible events to a man.

Kitty's landmarks were all of this
character. Their importance in her life

was very disproportionate to what they
were in his.

Alice Bellingham came to her brother's
house with trembling hands and a beating
heart. She longed, yet dreaded beyond
measure, to have an explanation with him.
He would far rather have escaped it,
have let things drift on until time had
softened his feeling towards her ; but
she could not bear it in her impatient
misery.

He was not at home when she Avent,
so she sat down in his room and determined
to wait there until he came in.

Eustace was very busy all the afternoon.
He went to see the agents who had conducted
the search for his lost young wife.
He steeled himself to go through all their
long weary particulars as to what had been
done and Avhat remained to do ; and he
gave them fresh orders, feeling all the

time that it was not in this way that
she would be found.

He saw his lawyer, and talked over
Losers bond with his impresario; and it
was settled that he should thoroughly go
into the business with Ursel. Then he
Avent to his club, and dined there, meeting
several friends, so that it was nearly eleven
o'clock before he returned home.

Alice was wearied out ; she lay back ina
great armchair in his room, and from her
fatigue she had fallen so fast asleep that she
did not move when he came in.

Eustace came and stood beside her,
looking down on her. In the calm of sleep
she looked so wearied out, so sad, so pretty,
that a tender feeling of compassion came
over him ; he bent dou^n and kissed her.
The kiss awakened her, and she sprang up
frightened ; but when she saw him looking
at her with that tender, pitying look in the

eyes that had grown so terribly sad, she put
out her arms and drew him towards her,
bursting into a passion of tears as she
sobbed :

'• Eustace, Eustace, only forgive me I Only
say you forgive me !'

He put his arm round her.

We have both need of forgiveness,' he
said. ' How can I blame you, Alice, when I
am a thousand times more to blame than
you are ?'

Oh, believe me, Eustace, there is nothing
in the wide world I would not do to bring
her back !'

I do believe you,' he said earnest .
Her excessive emotion frightened him.
And, Alice, some day, if we can only find
her, I shall be able to convince her— all may
yet be well.'

Alice could not hope ; she had seen
Kitty's face. It seemed to her that, as he

had not seen that, he could not know what
the blow had been.

I don't know Avhat to say to you,' she
said in bitter tears. ' I did not mean to be
unkind. I thought I was your best and
only friend — the only one who cared for
May. I meant to be so kind. I was blind,
blind, and it was all cruelty instead.'

He stroked her hand gently ; he also
was feeling this. He could not contradict
her.

I only thought of you — only of you, my
own brother. I never thought of her.'

Ah ! there lay the terrible mistake,' he
said. ' You forgot that she was my wife ;
harm to her was harm to me. But do not
cry like that, Alice ; perhaps you exaggerate.
Kitty always seemed to me to be so
fond of you.'

Oh ! perhaps that is the worst reproach
of alL She was fond of me ; she looked to

VOL. III. 45

me to help her, and I failed her. Oh, Eustace,
how I failed her !'

'Poor Alice!'

You may indeed pity me ! How shall
I ever forgive myself? I might have done
so much, and I let her drift on, growing
every day more sad and more dispirited ;
and this is the earl.'

Eustace did not answer. How bitterly
he was feeling it, he alone knew.

Poor Kitty ! poor little gentle thing !
but indeed, indeed, I never thought of injury
to her. I only thought of you. Oh,
Eustace ! you may forgive me, and Kitty
would, I know, a thousand times over, but
I never, never can forgive myself.'

Alice,' said her brother hoarsely, ' can"
you suggest nothing ? Have you no idea
of where she can be gone ?'

Alice shook her head. / I fancied that
she might have gone to St. Cuthbert's, where

]\Iay works so much ; and I went there and
saw Sister Harriet, but she was not there.
It was only a vague idea.'

You think she will come back ?'

^ ¥0 ; she will never come back,' cried Alice.

Do not say that !' he exclaimed, almost
roughly. ' Do not doom me to a lifelong
remorse. Kitty is good as a saint. There
is the marriage vow ; she will not break
it — she cannot.'

If you were dying, or in great need, she
would come back,' said Alice.

Eustace did not answer ; the pain was
too great.

Alice presently rose to her feet, and
pushed back her hair.

^ Eustace,' she said, ' thank you for being
like your own self to me again. If you
can, will you let me help you ? You know
there is nothing that I Avould not do.'

He kissed her.

45—2

Help me he said. ' My poor Alice, I
have need of help. Between us all, we
must find her. '

Yes,' said Alice, trying to speak brightly;
we must find her.'

The night was fine, and very warm.
Eustace asked her whether she would not
walk home to the Milroy' house, and they
started together. The streets and squares
were very silent, but now and then they
passed a house where entertainment was
going on. Carriages rattled past them —
linen shouted.

Alice clung closely to her brother's arm.
It Alas so sweet to be at peace with him
again. Her eyes were fall of soft tears ;
her aching heart was lulled and soothed by
this forgiveness and reunion, and she felt
braced up to hope again.

They went on together, speaking little,
both absorbed in thought.

Passing through Belgrade Square, at the
door of a quiet house stood a single
brougham. There had been one, or at
most two, guests in that house that
nio'ht.

They were about to pass, widen the door
Alas thrown open, and the guests came
out. Eustace for one moment stood
still, and a sharp shudder went through
him.

How beautiful she was, and how unchanged
! She ]passed close to him, leaning
on her husband's arm. He saw the stately
movement he knew so well ; he saw the
gleam of diamonds on the white hand that
for one second rested on the door, and heard
her speak :

Do you walk home, Austen ?'

Only that — only one glance of violet eye >
Awaiting for the answer ; but in the glance,
in the tone, was some subtle magic that told

him, as clearly as if it had been uttered in
plain words, that Marion loved her husband.


The brougham drove away. Lord Austen
stood for one moment on the doorstep,
lighting his cigar ; then he looked up and
perceived Eustace and his sister.

Is it you, my dear, dear Bellingham ?*
he exclaimed. ' Is it really you and Alice?
I did not know you were in London. How
are you? Where are you staying?'

He spoke with volubility, anxious to
hide how the change in his friend's looks
horrified him.

^ You have come back ?' said Eustace,
moistening his dry lips. ' I thought that,
like other people, you would have gone
abroad.*

We are going abroad when the weather
is a little cooler answered Lord Austen.
We have been dining With my old aunt.

Wq. are only passing through London.
And you ?'

I don't know,' answered Eustace. ' I
have no phms/

AVill you tell Marion that I will come
and see her tomorrow?' said Alice,
steadying her voice. 'Are you in Brook
Street ?'

Yes, just for a few days. Do come and
see her. Let me walk home with you he
went on, in his easter kindness.

Eustace would gladly have refused, but
he could not. He was grateful to Lord
Austen for s^oino- on talking' without ceasing*
till they reached the Milroy' house.

Alice went in. It was twelve o'clock.
Georgie had gone to bed, but Joe was up.
He asked no questions, only was very gentle
and attentive to her, making her eat the
soup and sandwiches that were waiting for
her. She had never felt so softened or so

kindly towards him, and her 'Good-night'
was warmer than it ever had been before.

Meanwhile, Lord Austen had passed his
arm through that of Eustace, and led him
away.

Come in here, old fellow he said, taking
from his pocket the key of the square,
which he had asked for at the Milroy'
house. ' It is an odd place of resort at
this time of night, but it will do as
well as anything else. I want to talk to
you.'

It was dark in the square ; as the two
men paced up and down, the ends of their
cigars made two red sparks in the darkness.


You are terribly down, Eu,' said Lord
Austen ; ' I can see it in your face, old man.
If I could be of the smallest use to
you '

I do not see how you can,' said Eustace

hoarsely. ' Forgive me, but there are some
things one cannot speak of.'

I know, I know ; I would not intrude
for the world. But '

He paused, and cleared his throat.

We are in an odd position with regard
to each other, Eustace.'

That is it,' said Eustace, almost fiercely
^ Take care what you say.'

There are times in which it is best to
speak quite plainly,' said Lord Austen ;
^ and I will ask you to bear with me, for a
good reason. I cannot but think it possible
that I — that we may hear of your wife
before you do.'

Eustace started violently.

Why should you say so?' he exclaimed.

I Avill tell you why. A short time ago,
on the very day before her father died. Lady
Bellingham had a long conversation with
May.'

You caiiDot mean it? When and where
did they meet?'

We met at Marshall and Snelgrove's,
and they Avent back to Mr. Austen's house
together. May told me about the interview
afterwards.'

I did not know that they knew each
other.'

The acquaintance was very slight, but
Lady Bellingham (forgive me if I must pain
you) seemed to cling to May so much.'

It is very strange,' said Eustace thoughtfully.
' Xever mind pain or any such humbug;
only tell me all you can.'

I have not much to tell said Lord
Austen; 'and if you would rather hear it
from May herself '

Eustace shook his head with a slight,
rapid movement. Lord Austen went on :

Well, your wife seemed very far from
happy. She poured it all out to May.'

'Was there any especial cause?' asked
Eustace.

Xot that I can make out. It was not
any one thing that had happened more
or less. She was overwrought, worn out,
poor little thing! She loved you so entirely,
she said, and was so full of remorse
and self-distrust because she had got into
her head (as women will do sometimes)
that— that '

That I did not care for her. Do not
spare me, Austen,' said Eustace bitterly.

I think it Alas not only that,' said Lord
Austen gently. ' She never blamed you,
poor little gentle heart ! Her remorse was
for her own part. She thought that she
lead done you harm (forgive me, Eustace);
your life had grown hard and bitter.'

Eustace cleared his throat.

What did Marion say ?' he asked.

Ma}- could only soothe and comfort her,

and most earnestly, most beseechingly entreated
her to persevere and try to win her
right place in your heart.'

'Had she then thought of leaving
me ?'

The hoarse, changed voice of his friend
was so painful that Lord Austen could
hardly persevere.

Not in that way, Eustace. I only tell
you this because both May and I fancy that,
with her wonderfully loving, tender nature,
she will pine for news of you, and we
think she will come or communicate with
May.'

And on this state of mind fell Alice's
cruel words.'

Eustace was speaking to himself lie
walked on silently for a moment. Then he
said :

Austen, when she comes, what will you
what will May say to her?'

What may Ave say ? Do you not see
that is what I want to know?'

Eustace turned round, speaking passionately
:

What can I say ? Let me put it to
yourself, Austen. Does such love as yours
and mine has been ever come twice in a
life? It is a strange thing to say to
you. Answer me as frankly as I ask it
of you.'

Lord Austen paused for a moment; then
Fie looked up and laid his hand on his friend's
shoulder.

]wien say that it does, Eu. I cannot
say. Do you remember the cry of Esau?
'• Hast thou but one blessing, my
fathers"

It is an anomaly for Jacob to comfort
Esau,' said Eustace, with a low, bitter laugh,
An incongruity — eh, Austen T

Lord Austen did not answer for a moment.

AVhat could he say? It seemed as if only
now that he had gained the peerless woman
for his Avise whom he had wooed so long,
could he understand the utter blank and
loss to his friend.

I am the last man in the world who
should venture to preach to you,' he said at
last. ' But this I will tell you frankly.
Years sago I would have resigned every
hope, every joy of my life, could I have
made you and Marion happy; but it was
not possible. . . . Only believe me when I
tell you this, for it is true ; and in that
time in which I suffered the same suffering
that you also have known, I learnt one
lesson : there is something higher even
than love, and that is duty.'

Cold comfort for the wife,' said Eustace.
]\Iy conscience acquits me there. I did my
duty.'
Lord Austen said nothing for a moment.

He passed his hand through his hair, and
sighed. It seemed a hopeless, terrible
entanglement.

Ashy did you marry her?' he exclaimed
suddenly.

Eustace started.

There are few men who would venture
to ask me such a question,' he said
haughtily.

I would not have done so,' said Lord
Austen, his face flushing, ' were I not
convinced, of course, that the motive was
not a mercenary one. But Avliy did you
do it ?'

Reasons are complicated. This is a
moment of strictest confidence. My mother
told me — well, I had better tell the truth —
that my poor Kitty cared for me. I Avns^
very unhappy, and '

I understand. But surely Lady Bellingham
does not know ?'

Unfortunately she overheard some words
the women were saying — a number of them
together — and this was the end of it.'

Poor little thing, poor little gentle soul !'

What can I do ?'

I am afraid it is a matter of patience. I
still adhere to my belief that she will come
to Ma'. But if she does come — that is
what grieves me so — what can we say to
her r

Tell her she has become necessary tome.
Tell her that I cannot live without
her !' exclaimed Eustace passionately.

I may tell her that ?'

But she will not come !' His tone once
more became dejected. ' It is no use to
deceive one's self — she will not come. She
will never forgive me !'

Patience and courage said Lord Austen
hopefully. ' Now, Eustace, it is very late ;
shall we go home ?'

They went as far as their roads lay together,
then stopped to say good-night.

Eustace, only one more word. Will
you, would you, come and see May?'

He shook his head — no other answer
would come — sand walked off down the
street.

VOL. III. 46

HEN Kitty Bellingham left Castleford
there was but one feeling in
her breast — one passionate longing
to set her husband free ; to hide herself
out ot his way ; to sever herself from him
altogether.

Alice's words, acting on a nature already
too much inclined, both by nature and education,
to a morbid distrust of self, had for
the moment almost overturned, her reason.
It seemed to her that she must have
acted with want of reserve, have betrayed
her feelings with a shameless want of

modesty and reticence, or it never could
have happened. To so sensitive a woman
the sense of shame was intolerable.

As she sat in the train on her solitary
journey up to London, the torrent of blood
kept rushing up into her cheeks, making
them burn with painful blushes, making
her temples throb and her breathing quick
from this new kind of misery.

What must he have thought of her ?
AVhat a contempt he must have felt for her !
Poor Kitty did not know how to bear it.
And they all knew it — those women who
belonged to him ; her own mother knew it,
and had allowed her to do it. She felt as if
she had nowhere to tarn, no refuge in all
the world.

When she arrived at Euston Square, and
found herself alone in London, she experienced,
at first, an overpowering sense of
bewilderment ; but no one would have

46—2

imagined it who saw her quiet movements
and self-possessed manner. She went into
the refreshment-room and asked for a glass
of water, and she sat down on a horse-hair
sofa to drink it and decide what she should
do next.

People came in and out, but nobody
noticed her ; and she had time to think.
Her first impulse was to go to Marion
Austen — to fly to that strong, loving nature
which had revealed to her some of its
strength and beauty so short a time ago.
Then it flashed across her the recollection
of what had happened ; of the commencement
of this terrible catastrophe. Marion
was married — she was Lord Austen's wife.
Kitty clenched her teeth tightly to keep
back the little moans which came to her
lips as she thought of what this news would
have been to her if her husband had loved
her only a very little.

She could not go to Marion ; she could
not introduce her own unhappiness on the
mingled sorrow and bliss of that bride.
And a strange contradictory feeling sprang
up in her breast — a jealousy for Eustace
that May should have forgotten him at last.
Poor Kitty ! The tide of conflicting feelings
was utterly exhausting.

She rose at last, carrying the travelling-bag
which held money and that knitting
that used so to worry her husband. She
walked away from the station for some way,
then she hailed a cab and drove to Waterloo
Station. She took a ticket and went down
to Dover.

Kitty could not have told why she went
there ; but it suited her well. People looked
a little strangely at her when they found
that she had no luggage, but they agreed
that it was no affair of theirs at the hotel.

Every day Kitty went down to the shore,

and stood or sat there for hours watching
the great waves come tumbling in. Her
mind was always dwelling on the one point
the sense of humiliation which overpowered
her. There Vas danger for Kitty
at that time, danger from the frightful force
of the concentration of thought. It was
apparently visible to outsiders.

Among the visitors at Dover just then
was an old lady whose seventy-six years of
life had been spent in going about doing-good
; one of those people who through their
long pilgrimage have gathered deep experience,
and to whom human suffering lies
open as in a book which they alone can
read.

Old Mrs. Huntingford used to watch
Kitty on the sands, and she saw well that
there was something terribly wrong. The
white fixed lips, the strained blue eyes, the
little twitch of eyelid and throat — nothing

escaped her notice. She had daughters of
her own : one married in India, out of
sight but ever in her heart 5 one closer
still — in Paradise.

Kitty was standing watching the waves
when she felt a gentle hand laid on her
shoulder, and turning round she saw that
sweet ao^ed face looking; into hers.

Are you not well, dear ?' she said
gently.

She was only just in time.

Kitty put both hands to her throat where
the agonizing neuralgia was throbbing; then
she uttered a kind of cry, and would have
fallen had not the kind Samaritan caught
her in her arms and called her maid to help
her.

Mrs. Huntingford had the poor little
insensible form carried into her own house,
which was close by; and she sent for a
doctor, and engaged a nurse, and prepared

to nurse her through the fluctuating stages
of an illness which but narrowly escaped
brain-fever.

Ao^ain and ai^^ain the faithful maid warned
her mistress, and pointed out all sorts of
strange incongruities. The poor young
patient had no luggage but a few necessaries
bought in haste, yet her clothes were costly,
and she wore splendid rings. But the
worst of it all was the way that in her
wanderings she was always babbling of
shame — nothing but shame, and what should
she do, and whither go.

Mrs. Huntingford used to look very grave
when she came from her bedside, and very
anxious ; but she would think no ill of
her.

There are many kinds of shame, my
dear Parsons,' she said, when her maid was
remonstrating one day. ' Some kinds of
shame are so beneficial that I wish you had

a touch of it ; for shame, to think evil of a
creature you know nothing a^ out !'

Pardons was as kind-hearted as she was
prudent.

I will do my best for her, whatever she
may be,' she said ; * but don't say that I did
not warn you, ma'am.'

No, I won't say so,' said her mistress,
smiling. * You shall have your due.'

At last one evenings when the setting; sun
was going down redly into the sea, and the
glare of its light was shining into her room,
Kitty opened her eyes with the light of
intelligence once more in their gaze. Mrs.
Huntingford was sitting by her, and caught
the first word that she uttered.

Mamma !'

There was something homely, simple, and
comfortable in that, which reassured her
friend on the spot. She spoke as if to her
own daughter.

Your mamma has not come yet, my
child ; meanwhile, take this and try to goto
sleep.'

Kitty was too weak to ask questions ; she
felt a gentle motherly hand on her brow.
She drank the soup offered her, and from
that time began to sleep herself into convalescence.


A week or two j^^'issed; at last a time
came when the doctor decreed that she
might be questioned. He did not quite
like the perfectly quiescent apathetic condition
into which she appeared to be sinking;
he thought that, even at the risk of some
harm from over-excitement, it might be
well to find out something about her relations.


Mrs. Huntino^ford beofan it.

Kitty had been moved to a sofa and
placed in a bay-window overlooking the
sea ; the windows were wide open ; the even

plash of the waves fell with a dull, soft
monotony on the sands.

Mrs. Huntinofford was embroidering one
of the most elaborate patterns of modern
art. She began to ask questions in a
matter-of-fact way, Without looking at
Kitty.

Where is your husband now, my dear ?'
she said.

At Castleford,' she answered. ' They
were all there.'

Then Kitty stopped suddenly, and the
colour rushed into her face.

He must be getting very anxious about
you,' went on Mrs. Huntingford. ' Don't
you think we ought to write to him, or to
your mamma?'

Oh no— no !'

But they cannot know where you
are ?*

Do you think I am likely to die ?' said

Kitty very suddenly. ' Is that why you
want to write?'

Xo, dear child; you are not in the least
likely to die, thank God !'

Ah !'

There was such profound dejection in
that little exclamation that her friend looked
at her, and said tenderly :

Will you not tell me all about it, my
poor child ? Would it not do you good ?'

Kitty put out her arms, and held up her
face to be kissed.

'Not to-day,' she said very sadly; 'I
cannot to-day !'

Mrs. Huntingford was content to wait
for a few days, and Kitty grew strong
rapidly. She was soon able to go out for
some hours at a time, and lie upon the
sands ; and she began to eat more, and to
have a bright, tender, pink colour in her
cheeks.

To-morrow, tomorrow, you shall know
all about it,' she said one night, as her old
friend bent over her to give her a last kiss
in her bed. ' I am not at all mysterious,
and my story is very simple. Some day
mamma and I will both thank you ; no
words can ever express my gratitude for all
you have been to me, but God will reward
you, dearest, dearest Mrs. Huntingford !'

And some day you and your husband
will come and stay with me, and tell me all
about the foolish quarrel that I think you
must have had. There, that is my theory
about 3'ou.'

Poor Kitty's lips were quivering.

My dear,' said the old Indy earnestly,
did you ever read Tennyson's exquisite
poem, called " The First Quarrel"? '

She shook her head.

Well, be still and listen to me. In that
short poem lies one of the most complete

tragedies of human life. There was a
young wife ; she was angry with her husband
— justly angry, mind you — and she
spoke bitter words, and he was going to
sea. She let him go unforgiven, with the
angry Avords ringing in his ears, and her
passionate reproaches in his heart. The
last words of the poem comprise the
anguish of a lifetime :

An' the boat went down that night,
The boat went down that nisfht." '

Kitty hid her face and trembled.

Poor little thing !' said Mrs. Huntingford.
'- I will not tease you any more to-night ;
only remember, child, that there may come
a day in which the words " Too late " are
an agony too great for human endurance.'

Mrs. Huntingford went away, and Kitty
lay for many hours wide awake, listening to
the waves. She was not thinking of what
she would do, or where she would go ; it

seemed as if lier head were too tired to form
plans — as if she must wait, as she had waited
before, for the inspiration of the moment.

The next morning she slept very late, and
only rose about twelve o'clock, feeling with
a kind of terror that her rest was over, that
to-day she must give the long-promised
explanations.

Kitty went out on the beach presently
with her books and a shawl, and she sat
down in a favourite sheltered corner watching
the pea. Mrs. Huntingford settled her
comfortably there, and then left her and
went indoors ; she had letters to write, and
could not spare the morning.

Then Kitty rose up quietly, and walked
away into the town ; a sort of feeling had
again come irresistibly upon her that she
must disappear again. She hardly knew
what she dreaded ; she fancied that all
these food and kind friends would combine

and force her to go back to Eustace, and
this she could not bear — to be again forced
upon him, again made to appeal to his compassion.


If she had thought it all out previously,
she could not have devised a better plan ;
but she had arranged nothing — only a kind
of instinct guided her, as an instinct guides
the hunted hare, teaching it to double on its
pursuers.

Kitty went to the station. She had still
plenty of money. She took a ticket for
London, and started. She did not go far
on her journey. She got out at the first
station, took a carriage, and drove to
Folkestone Pier. The boat was just starting,
and no one noticed her as she went
quietly on board. In two hours she owns in
France.

Mrs. Huntingford did everything that lay
in her power. During the last fortnight,

unknown to Kitty, she had sent an advertisement
to several papers, carefully worded,
but containing a description sufficiently accurate
to attract attention, and giving her
own address.

That very afternoon, excited by the wording
of the advertisement, Sir Eustace Berlin
sham arrived at Dover. He found Mrs.
Huntingford in great trouble. Her description
made him recognise his wife beyond a
doubt. The disappointment was terrible.
He telegraphed for a detective, and the
search began again. The ticket taken to
London appeared conclusive ; and every
gentle-looking woman in a black gown
who had travelled up to London that day
was traced elaborately to her own destination
and identification ; but all in vain.

Kitty had once more succeeded in baffling
pursuit.

VOL. III. 47

USTACE came into the Milroy'
dining-room. They were just
finishing dinner. Georgie could
hardly suppress the sorrowful exclamation
that rose to her lips when she saw her
brother ; he looked so haggard, so worn-out
and discouraged.

They were alone, Alice the only guest,
and they hastily dismissed the servants.

No news, Eustace ?' said Alice eagerly.
I am afraid you have nothing good to
tell us.'

I was too late,' he answered.

Mr. Mulroy poured out a glass of wine
and pushed it towards him.

'Then it was Kitty?'

Yes, it must have been Kitty ; it could
have been nobody else. She had been very
ill, and that good Mrs. Huntingford nursed
her through it all, knowing nothing about
her in any way. That woman is kindness
and sweetness itself. One does not know
how to thank her.'

But how can you be sure that it was
Kitty ?'

It must have been ; everything answers
to it. And in her wandering she was
always speaking of her mother and of
me. And, besides, they had cut off long
locks of her hair. In short, it was indubitable.'


But, Eustace, where is she ?'

The very morning that I went there she
had gone away, had left no message, no

47—2

letter, nothing to identify her. She had
apparently gone up to London. She was
recognised at the station, but there it ended.
We have not been able to trace her farther.'

Alice sighed deeply, and tried to brush
away the tears of disappointment unseen.

Joe Muh'oy bent forward.

Keep up heart, Eustace,' he said. ' You
know this kind of thing cannot go on.
When she wants money she must send to
the bank. We must find her some day.'

There was nothing more to say. They
went upstairs to the drawing-room, and
tried to talk of other things.

How much longer do you mean to stay
in London?' Eustace asked.

Georgie looked doubtful.

I don't know what to say,' she said.
We are anxious to get down to the Isle of
Wight, but while there is anything to keep
us waiting '

There is nothing to wait for,' he
answered quickly, almost impatiently.
^ London is intolerable. If you will let
me, I will come with you.'

Oh, Eustace ! will you really ?' exclaimed
Georgie ; and Alice looked up,
hardly believing so good a piece of news.

Yes,' he said. ' Have you room on the
yacht, or is your party made up ?*

We have no party,' said Joe eagerly.
I put them all off long ago, as our plans
were so uncertain. It will, indeed, be quite
delightful to have you.'

Where shall we go ?'

To the Mediterranean ; don't you think
so? Let us try and see something new.'

Alice went for an atlas, and they were
bending over it, when a servant came in to
ask whether Mr. Mulroy would see Monsieur
Ursel for a moment.

In answer to their consent they heard a

quick step come up the stairs, and in one
moment Ursel came in. He was in evening
dress, and had evidently but a few moments
to spare.

There was something extraordinary in
his face, so extraordinary that Joe Mulroy
and Eustace glanced at each other.

I suppose the look of intoxication from
excess of happiness is so rare on a human
face that it frightens one,' Joe said afterwards
to his wife.

It was excitement, ecstasy, that lighted it
up — his eyes shone, his cheeks burned, the
smile played round his mouth. He came
into the room with outstretched hands.

My friends, my friends !' he cried ; ' have
you heard it ? Do you know ? I am
free!'

They gathered round him.

You have heard from Mr. Calloway T
they asked.

Heard ? Have I not heard, indeed ?
Great news ! Glorious news ! News to
make a man mad or drunk with joy !
What have I done to deserve such
happiness ?'

Sit down, Ursel/ said Eustace, putting
his hand on his shoulder. The frightful
excitement of the musician startled him.
Sit down, and tell us all about it.'

I have only ten minutes,' said Ursel ; ' I
am at St. James's Hall. I have played
once already. I shall be wanted again at
ten. You see, I must not delay. You ask
for details ; what can I say? I have only
received a notification from Mr. Calloway,
your agent, to say that the money has been
paid, and that I am a free man.'

But who paid it ? How did you raise
it?'

'Who ? Ah ! some day — some day,
perhaps, when life is over, and we meet in

the other world, the angels will point him
out to me, but not now.'

You do not know?'

It is the same hand that sent me
Melusina — the warm heart, the golden
soul for whom night and day I pray as I
never yet have prayed for father or mother,
wife or child.'

This violent excitement had a strange
effect on the listeners — it almost shocked
them.

Is the matter concluded ?' said Eustace,
trying, by speaking in a commonplace
voice, to draw back Ursel into calmer
regions.

Did you not hear ? It is done, completed,
paid over ; and such a sum ! Good
heavens, what a sum ! Who can have done
it ? Who can have had the greatness of
soul ; who could have had the passion for
music that would rise to such a height as

this? See, 1 have the receipt, the actual
receipt!'

He tried one pocket after another ; as he
did so the colour dying out of his face,
leaving it livid.

'Not there!' he exclaimed. Then, with
almost a shout : ' Am I, then, mad — delirious?
Is it a dream? Ah!'

The colour rushed back with such violence
as almost to cause a convulsion. He
had found the paper. The room reeled
before his eyes. He steadied himself by
the table, trying to see through the red mist
before him.

Eustace laid his hand on his shoulder.
The kindly voice sounded miles off in the
rushing sound in his ears.

Come, come, Ursel — steady ! It is all
right ; you have it in your hand.'

They made him sit down, and Joe Mulroy
brought him a glass of water, and unloosened

the collar, which seemed to suffocate
him. It passed off as quickly as it had
come on, and Ursel seemed unconscious of
what had happened.

Now then, you are yourself again,' said
Sir Eustace quietly. ' Come downstairs
and have a cigar, and get steady, or you will
never be ready to play again by ten
o'clock.'

What o'clock is it now?' said Ursel, with
a violent start.

Not past nine yet. Steady, old fellow!'
said Eustace. He took his arm, and led
him from the room downstairs.

^ What a frightful thing it will be if that
man ever fails!' said Alice, with a slight
shudder. ' There was something about him
to-night that frightened me,'

'How curiously changed he is!' said
Georgie. ' If I had been asked to describe
him as we used to know him, I should have

said that he was one of the quietest, most
unambitious, philosophical characters I ever
met.'

I wonder whether we all have hidden in
us such violent passions,' said Alice ; * and
that if anything came to awaken them, like
this man's marvellous success, whether we
also should lose our self-control.'

I hope not,' said Georgie. ' If I saw
you like that, I should treat it for hysterics.'


Alice laughed, and then sighed.

Poor Ursel !' she said. ' How little we
knew him and how little he knew himself
in old days !'

I suppose the poor little silly wife, with
her prosy interpretations of his music, and
her incessant chatter about her neighbours
and their new gowns and bonnets, was an
excellent balance for him.'

*■ Yet one pitied him for the incongruity.'

I think, on the whole, sometimes, Providence
knows best.'

Alice laufjfhed ao^ain.

Well, perhaps,' she said. ' Certainly
there must be a strange want of discipline
in his character.'

Downstairs, Ursel wanted to pace up and
down the room, but his two friends would
not allow it. They sent for iced lemonade ;
they plied him with cigars. The first two
went out almost directly; the third asserted
its calming influence. Ursel ceased to talk
feverishly. He leant back in his chair. He
began to examine his hands attentively.

Neither of the Englishmen had spoken
for some time. They also were smoking.
Then Eustace said quietly:

what is the matter with your hands,
Ursel? Are you not used to the sight of
them?'

Matter ? — nothing. I always take great

care of my hands ; they are ray fortune, you
see. They are all right. Just now they
were sometimes cold, sometimes hot, and
inclined to shake. Now the fingers have
recovered themselves. They are strong as
iron, and soft too.'

Eustace took one of his long, shapely
hands into his own, and looked at it
curiously. It was a nervous hand that
night ; pulses beating, and inclined to
quiver. He laid it down as if it had been
some delicate musical instrument.

'I suppose we ought to go,' he said,
glancing at his watch.

Joe Mulroy rang the bell.

I think I shall go to St. James's Hall
for half an hour,' he said. ' What do you
say, Eustace — shall we?'

'With all my heart.'

Ursel thought places might be found, and
they started.

The hall was crowded; there was not a
single vacant seat. Ursel's fame had risen
to the highest pitch known in London. The
brothers-in-law did not mind standing ;
they found just sufficient room for that.

When Ursel came on he was perfectly
calm — almost dreamy. What had passed
seemed to fade into unreality. As usual,
he was not quite satisfied with one string
of Melusina — he tried it again and again.
It was strange ; everyone was convinced of
its perfection of tune but himself He
tried the patience of his great audience. It
had an odd effect on Eustace, the twanging
of that particular note. It carried him back
to old days ; to the little yellow-washed
salon, the small music-world of Santa
Chiara, the calm and quiet and repose of
the musicians life there. Why was Ursel
so long over it ? Was it that there was
one note always acting as a subtle jar on

his over-strained nerves? It ended at last,
and he began to play. It was a great
triumph, a magnificent success ; but the
ever-recurring encores and apparently endless
applause did not bring back to Ursel's
face the wild look of excitement that had
startled them so much in Eaton Square.
He bowed very calmly with his old dignity.
When his friends sought him after the concert
was over, they heard that he had gone
without waiting to bid them good-night.

HE heat at Santa Chiara that
summer was very unusual even
for Italy. Day after day the
sky was perfectly cloudless ; the fiery sun
poured down relentlessly on town and
country; the nights were hot and airless
as the days. No sweet, cool evening breeze
came to freshen the heavy atmosphere; the
oppression was very great.

Trade languished. Nobody went out
into the streets unless they could help it ;
the pavement seemed to blister their feet.
Don Paolo and his mother never left

Santa Chiara. Long ago she had settled
there. It was the home of her married life,
the scene of her husband's death, and she
had never left it since. She belonged to
the Dominican Order without vows, and
her life was often much like that of a Sister
of Charity, with a combination of intercourse
with a few friends and a considerable love of
society. Madame di St. Isidoro was not
naturally fond of good works, but the influence
of her son and the constant sight
of his devoted and self-sacrificing life had
aroused within her the longing to work for
God.

There was sickness in Santa Chiara, low
fever lingering in the town, a general
listlessness and want of energy.

Don Paolo came into his mother's rooms
one day with anxiety in his face. She no
longer inhabited the upstairs rooms, but
had moved into the large cool salons that

VOL. III. 48

the Bellinghamss had occupied. The sun
was closely shut out from them, and the
doors replaced by curtains. They were,
comparatively, wonderfully cool.

Don Paolo sat down and passed his hands
through his hair.

'Bad news, madamina,' he said. 'I
have bad news to give you.'

More bad news? Come, Paolo, courage !
What is it ?'

The fountain has failed — the Bruzzi
fountain. No water flows. They have
reached the bottom. There is nothing but
mud, and mud of an evil smell.'

That is bad,' said Marie thoughtfully.
What is there to depend on now?'

The Prioree shrugged his shoulders.

We must economize water, madamina/
he said. * For instance '

He made a slight movement, indicating
the place where Marie kept her plants, her

flowers that were half the joy of her life, and
that required so large a quantity of water in
the heat of summer.

Economize ! water !' she exclaimed.

Yes ; we can spare no more for luxuries.
Without water the animals will die, and
worse evils yet may befall. The flowers
must suffer first.'

Marie made a little pathetic gesture.

It will be sad to see them die,' she
said. ' Almost like ceasing to feed one's
children.'

Shall T have them taken away?' he said,
smiling.

^ ^0. I will have courage. I will keep
them while they do not suffer, and when
they begin to thirst I will cut them off with
my own hand.'

That is brave.'

She sighed.

One wants courage in this life, Paolo —

48—2

courage, courage! Perhaps that is the
quality, of all others, for which we should
pray.'

^ The smells in the lower part of the town
are very bad to-day,' said Don Paolo. 'I
have been talking to Menello, our young
new doctor. He says it is too late for
remedy; it would not be safe in this hot
weather.'

What is he afraid of ?' said Marie, ina
low tone.

Oh, cholera, of course. It increases
fast on the Mediterranean. At Spezzia it
is terrible. One never knows what may
happen.'

'And the Bruzzi water has failed!' exclaimed
Madame di St. Isidoro. ' And in
cholera-times the people must drink the
river water ! Well, well, God rules all !'

The Prioree did not answer for a moment ;
then he said suddenly:

By-the-bye, madamina, I have again
seen the gh4 with the face of a Lucca
della Eobbia angeL It is changed. She
has gone through much. It is strangely
spiritualized. AYho is she? Are you sure
that your friends are not here? It must bethe
fair-haired child who married Eustace
Bellingham.'

I know they are not here. But Paolo,
Paolo, it may be his wife. I have never
told you, only yesterday I had a long letter
from Alice. She told me bad news indeed.
That little fair-haired Kitty, whom you
admired so much, has left her husband.'

Left him ! Impossible ! What misery
and he so fine a fellow !'

The story is very sad. You know of
his old attachment to some one else?'

Something about it I knew — no names.'

She, the first love, married, and he was
very unhappy. This was when he was

here ; and she, your little friend, grew to
care for him too much. Some one told him
so ; and out of kindness, chivalry, and disappointment,
he married her.'

Yes ; but she was charming. Did they
not agree ?'

Ah ! there is the sad thing. How badly
these things are arranged in England !
Judicious parents would have managed all.
What have girls to do with love and such
follies before they are married ? I have no
patience with them ! She was not satisfied ;
the first love haunted her, and one fine day
she heard it said that he had married her
for charity because she cared for him, she
could not bear it, and she fled away.
They have searched far and wide. At last
he discovers what it is to possess a wife,
when she is lost. He is in despair, and
she will not return. Oh, do you really
think that she is here ?'

After what you say, I am quite sure of
it. I have seen her twice

Where ? AYhat was she doing ?'

She was in the worst part of the town,
nursing; a sickly child while the mother
took much-needed rest — that was the first
time; the second, I saw her kneeling in
St. Ontario.'

I must find her !'

Yes. Poor foolish child,' said the Prioree
thoughtfully, ' she has much to learn.'

You will teach her T said Marie, looking
at him lovingly.

Her own heart will teach her,' he
answered. ' Even the path of the sternest
self-sacrifice, of the deepest devotion to
God's law, must not be wilfully chosen.'

You would send her back ?'

Duty before sacrifice.'

Marie recognised the truth of his words,
and bowed her head.

If I can help you, you will let me
know?' she said.

Yes. Fid her out, madaniina ; win
her to come and see you. Poor little soul !
And now I must go. I am to meet Menello
at the hospital this afternoon. There is
much to arrange ; this failure of the Bruzzi
water is a very serious calamity.'

When Madame di St. Isidoro was left
alone, she began to wonder how she should
find Kitty. Santa Chiara was by no means
a small place ; she conjectured that Lady
Bellingham would not have gone to an hotel.
In the great heat of the weather she felt
unequal to much search. An inspiration
seized her. There was one shop where
English Tauchnitz were sold ; there, if anywhere,
she might hear news of her. No
Englishwoman could remain long in Santa
Chiara without Tauchnitz — that was self-evident.
Marie dressed, and started at

once, even in the blazing heat of the
day.

She kept on the shady side of the streets,
and was glad when she reached the Strata
Beale — a long, principal street of the town,
where the houses were all built over stone
arcades, in the fashion of Genoa.

Emerging from a shop in this street she
met her son, and the new doctor of whom
he had already frequently spoken. Marie
was curious about him ; she had very seldom
heard Don Paolo speak so enthusiastically
of anyone.

She made a little bow, and the Prioree saw
her, stopped, and introduced his companion
Ettore Menello.

Marie was pleased with his looks. He
was a young, slender man, with square
shoulders, and the look of having seen
military service ; he was very dark, with
black hair closely cut, a fiercely waxed

moustache, and large brown eyes which
were restless and brilliant when excited,
but with all the soft glowing fervour of
Italian eyes when he chose.

You are abroad in the fiercest heat of
the day, madame,' he began. ' Don Paolo
and I have business that cannot be delayed ;
but dio that could help it would face this?'

My business is not urgent,' said Marie,
with her winning smile ; ' but I seek a
friend, and friendship is impatient.'

The little white Englishwoman,' said
Don Paolo, smiling, in explanation.

Ah ! the little white lady, so the people
call her. You seek her ? Do you know
her ?' he said eagerly

If she is the same person whom I believe
her to be, I should know her well.
How Long has she been here ? How did
she obtain that sobriquet T

She came three weeks ago — about the

10th of Au^'List. She loco-es in Via San
Yitale ; she goes about among the poor —
they like her much ; they think she is come
to help them through the bad season

You know her ?'

I have met her twice. She was nursing
a sick child. It was the house to which I
took you ' — and he turned towards the
Prioree. ' The child died, the little white
lady was sorry ; she wept, and her tears
made the people love her. I can show you
where she lives, madame ; but it is a quarter
in which I am not very popular.' And he
smiled broadly, showing all his white teeth.

They walked along the streets together.
Marie did not ask what he meant — she was
too courteous ; but she wondered.

It was actually painful to leave those
deep shadowed arcades and to emerge into
the blaze of the sun. Dr. Menello led the
way. The streets through which they

passed were very dirty — foal with decayed
cabbage-stalks and vegetable refuse of all
kinds — they had a heavy sickening smell.
They came suddenly on the market-place ;
it was a picturesque scene. The market
was roofed and supported by tall slender
pillars ; two or three steps led uj) to a
raised platform, and on these brown half-clad
children played, and a few old women
sat. It was an idle time of day.

In a conspicuous place was one stall at
which two peasant-women were carrying
on an active business. The stall was
covered with great water-melons ; everyone
who passed by stopped and bought one of
the sweet dripping slices, and went on his
way refreshed.

A low* hiss greeted the voun^:^ doctor.
Marie looked astonished — the market-women
were hissing him. An old hag crouched up
eon the steps muttered an ^ Accidente'

He only smiled a little.

Unfortunately,' he said, ' it has somehow
got abroad that I have been trying to
get the sale of water-melons controlled. It
will be dangerous soon ; but they don't
like it. Come, FiammettaT he exclaimed,
springing up the steps and approaching the
market women, ' give me a slice. How
much ? Fifty centering ! For shame, for
shame! Never mind. I will ruin myself
for the sake of goodwill.'

Ah ! when the Signor Doctor tastes
and sees how delicious it is, he will repent
of his little game,' said the woman
sullenly.

Come, come, my friend ! we will say
no more about it till the time comes,
eh?'

Times are bad enough without taking
such little profit as this from us,' she said,
as he turned away. ' So, he has not given

it up — the wretch! the traitor!' and again
the slight hiss followed him.

The beautiful fresh fruit will soon be
rank poison,' he said, as they walked on
together. 'But I think we have time yet.'

They came into a little piazza, which was
half filled by the marble basin of the
Bruzzi water. The work was an ancient
sculpture of Niccola Pisano, and very
beautiful. Alas! the costly marbles lay
basins and discoloured: in the sun : the
masks and lions' heads, from which clear
streams were wont to fall in delicious
abundance, were dry.

Menello, who seemed to get more absorbed
in thought and less inclined to talk
every moment, went up quickly to the
basin and peered down into it long and
anxiously. With an iron pole which lay
against the wall he touched the mud, and
again peered down.

The mud grows hard and baked he said.
iSTot one drop is rising from the spring.
Well, well — patience !'

Presently they came to Via San Vitale.
The houses were large, tall, and fine, though
in the midst of a bad and low neighbourhood.


Here lives the little white lady,' said
Menello, smiling ; * and here I must, I fear,
leave you, madame.'

You will come and see me,' said Marie
rather eagerly ; ' you will always find me in
the evening.'

If I may do myself so much honour.'

He raised his hat with a flourishing-sweep,
and went away at a brisk pace.

HE Prioree gamesome late. Madame
di St. Isidoro was standing by
her flowers — the poor flowers
that were doomed. She had opened the
windows wide and the doors, in hopes of
introducing a little cool air ; but the white
curtains of the room never stirred, not a
leaf moved — the air that did come in was
heat rather than air. The flowers hung
their heads, their leaves drooped; the dry
earth was cracked and crumbling. At this
hour Marie was wont to deluge them with
water — sto watch them drinking it in with

greedy rapture, their leaves freshening, the
sweet life reviving in every drooping blossom.


As she watched, large tears she could
not suppress gathered in her eyes ; it was
terrible to her to let them die like this.
Don Paolo laid his hand on her shoulder
and made her start, and then laugh, while
she surreptitiously brushed away the tears.

You have surprised a poor Hagar
mourning over her Ishmael,' she said.

Come, come — your resolution ! They
are not suffering yet, they are only thirsty,
as many other forms of life are thirsty just
now. The people who have lived on the
Bruzzi water for so long are almost in a
state of rebellion because they have to go to
the river for water ; and what is to become
of the last remnant of cleanliness ! Who
can tell? Well, mother, was it Lady
Bellingham, or not?'

VOL. III. 49

Marie moved away from her flowers.

Come and sit down, Paolo,' she said. 'I
have coffee for you ; and while you drink it
I will tell you. Yes, it is a most extraordinary
fact that it is Lady Bellingham —
the same little Kitty Brown-clifford whom
you admired for the sweetness of her face.'

Where did you find her?'

In that old house they call the Casa
Fossa ; it is very large and very bare — the
rooms so large and high that they are cool.
Little Kitty glides about them all dressed
in white, looking so childish and so lonely.
AVhen she first saw me she gave a little
scream of recognition, and ran forward
eagerly and kissed me ; then she became
very pale, and stood quite silently before
me with her head hanging: down.

" Perhaps you would not let me kiss
you," she said, " if you knew what I have
done''

" I know you have left your husband,"
I said, as severely as I could; and then, for
it was like speaking to a child, I said :
What does your mamma say to that ?" '

And did she tell you her reasons ?'

Oh yes; she had her reasons all ready.
From her point of view her conduct is
sublime; from his, naturally, it is madness.
How shall we reconcile the two? Shall we
write and tell them she is here?'

Not yet. Let us try and win from her
the atonement she ought to make. If we
fail '

But you never fail, Paolo mine,' said his
mother lovingly. ' With you it is only
a matter of time. By-the-bye, do you
know that Ursel has come back ?'

No. Have you seen him ?'

I saw him in the street to-day, and spoke
to him. I do not think you would knoAv
him, he is so changed. He looks radiant —

49—2

so prosperous, so brilliant. I never saw a
human face with such a glow of happy life
shining over it.'

Good Ursel ! I shall be glad to see him
again.'

I asked him whether he had come to
stay here, and he answered for a short time
only. He is going to America in the beginning
of November. Meanwhile, he has
gone to his old home on the Roman road.'

You heard that he was free from his
impresario T

Yes, but not how it came to pass.'
By the same hand that gave him Messina
— English, of course.'

Sir Eustace?'

'No; for lack of means, not will. I
fancy it was his brother-in-law.'

The little man who married Georgina,
whom I never liked? But surely he did
not care for Ursel ?'

I cannot say. I only think,' answered
Don Paolo. ' And much as you may look
down on that unattractive little Englishman,
madamina, let me tell you that I never saw
anything like his devotion to his brother-in-law.
There is nothing more beautiful in
life than a man's love for his faithful
friend.'

You are always right,' she said affectionately.
' What, going already ? No
peace, no rest ?'

Have I not had at least half an hour's
rest? And to be with you is always
peace.'

It was very rarely he used words like
that. They brought the warm, tender glow
to her heart that few had power to bring
there now.

I shall try and see Ursel as soon as I
can,' he said, as he was leaving the room.
I am anxious to see my old friend, and

to judge for myself how triumphs agree with
him.'

Surely you saw that here ?'

Ah, this little place is not the great
world. Applause from lesser men is success
; applause from the master-minds is
triumph. Ursel bore success very philosophically;
he had not tasted the more intoxicating
draught

All revoir /' she answered, waving her
fingers, and going back in her solitude to
wistful watching of her poor drooping
flowers.

Kitty Bellingham could not have told the
reason why she had come to Santa Chiara,
if she had been asked to do so. She was
drifting about as the waves of destiny chose
to drift her, giving little thought as to her
destination. Some fancy, some hope that it
would soften the never-ceasing aching of
her heart to be once more in scenes hallowed

by association may have guided her,
but she came very listlessly.

Again, it was almost without volition of
her own that she went to the Casa Fossa.
She found herself travelling with the owner
and his wife. They were courteous to her.
Her forbore to smoke when he saw that it
disturbed her. The good wife gave her a
band-box on which to rest her weary feet,
and offered her chocolate and unsavoury
slabs of Bologna sausage ; and by-and-by,
when she spoke of a lodging, offered to take
her in, and give her the large empty rooms
in which she had established herself.

There she stayed, sometimes for hours
together pacing up and down the waxed
floors, sometimes leaning out of the windows
With wistful blue eyes always straining
upwards — not into the busy, picturesque
life of the narrow street below, but upwards,
from whence alone the help would come —

the help that must come to teach her how to
face the life that lay before her.

The help came thus at last. A little crying
child hurt in the street. Kitty carried
it home, and found herself in the midst of
work to do — poor people content with very
little, but needing that little just to live ;
bad times, sickness, improvidence ; little
laughing black-eyed children rolling in the
dust care day, the next hungry, lever-stricken.


Kitty began to work daily amongst the
poor ; dohig more and more till her life
was much like that of a Sister. The help
had come; the hard misery began to melt
round her heart; the passionate love she felt
for the husband she had left, seemed no
longer the torture but the strength of her
life.

The heat grew greater day by day, and
the sufferings of the people increased. The

river was far off, and they were lazy, ease-loving
creatures ; it was cruel when the day's
work was done to have the long extra tramp
to fetch water — it was a bitter grievance to
them.

When Kitty went next time to see
Madame di St. Isidoro, she found her sitting
crying so bitterly that she had to turn
consoler.

What is it ? What is it ?' she cried in
her gentle, pathetic voice. ' How can I
comfort you ?'

Then Marie smiled, and even laughed like
a true Frenchwoman through her tears, and
put back the pretty gray hair from her
brow

It is most childish to cry,' she said.
You, with great living sorrows, may laugh
at me. It is only that with my own hand
I have cut my flowers to save them from
dying of thirst. Ah, dear little friend, I

also have had my great sorrows in my day,
and I have lived through them. And now,
perhaps, you can hardly understand ; but
the little sorrows are reflections of the great
ones — stones thrown into still depths which
rouse up and stir the pain which only sleeps
and never dies.'

Does it never die — never ?' said Kitty
wistfully — she was not thinking of herself,
but of Eustace — and Madame di St. Isidoro
shook her head.

Ursel spoke the truth,' she said. ' The
grass grows over our graves, but the graves
are there.'

Kitty did not answer. The words brought
back to her the whole bright scene. She
glanced round the room. Once more she
could see it peopled with those dear faces
that were all the world to her. She could
hear Ursel' s quiet voice. It was so vivid
that she started when Marie spoke again.

You think me very foolish to cry for
flowers ? Do you not ?'

It is the little things, not the great ones,
that make one cry,' answered Kitty simply.
But why have you cut them all ? They
must have been so beautiful.'

They drank so much.'

Ah, I understand. Well, let us make
the best of them ;' and with dexterous
fingers she began to arrange the poor cut
flowers in a vase. Before the task was over,
Marie was laughing over it in her own
bright way.

When Kitty left the Palazzo St. Isidoro
to go home, the feeling of desolation was
upon her very strongly. The dread of going
back to those great empty rooms, to sit
through the evening with no one to whom
to speak, nothing to do but to read the books
which brought her no forge tfuln less, for the
concentration of her thoughts was such that

she could understand nothing that she read.

A despairing feeling came over her. Could

she carry out the task she had set herself ?

Had she overrated her own strength?

She turned her restless steps out of the

town. She thought she would go a little

way along the Roman road.

It was not deserted ; all the weary toilers,
men and women, from the town would be on
their way to or from the river. It w-as
growing late; the fierce sun was going down
in a sky which blazed like molten brass.
The heat was intense, and heavy, unwholesome
smells rose up from the burning
streets. Over the distant country hovered
a kind of mist, which spoke of heat, not of
fresh, damp dew.

Kitty did not walk far ; she sat down on a
stone bench by the wayside, listlessly watching
the passers-by — pitying the brown
mules as they strained with their heavily-laden

carts np the steep ascent ; pitying
the children and very old men and women
as they staggered homewards with the jar
or pitcher of water ; then idly admiring the
handsome girls who came swinging down
the hill, each with her big earthen water-jar
poised on her head. Some of them burst
into song as they passed. A baker's boy,
scantily clothed, but beautiful as Apollo,
sang in a lovely tenor voice, swinging his
long, shiny, brown loaves in time as he
poured a passionate love-song into the air.

Kitty listened till the last sweet notes
died away; then slowly, wearily, she rose
and began to turn homewards, when a
sudden familiar voice broke upon her ear.

Is it possible? Do I not dream ? Ls it
you, Lady Bellingham ?'

Mechanically she held out her hand.

It is, Monsieur Ursel,' she said, * I
myself.'

Ah.'

The long-drawn syllable, the look of
astonishment — half-pain, half-joy — on his
face, made her start.

I am here only for a short time. I — I —
am travelling,' she faltered.

I see. I know. Ah, thank God I have
found you !' he exclaimed with intense
earnestness. ' It will save his life from
wreck

What do you mean ?' she cried, the words
terrifying her. ' Of whom do you speak ?'

Of your husband, Lady Bellingham ;
of the man whom in all the world I love
the best. You would hardly know him if
you saw him now, he is so changed. He
has grown so thin, so wan.'

Has he been ill ?'

111 ? Yes. And I think his heart is
broken !'

Kitty struggled hard to master the sob

that would rise in her throat. She knew
that he was heart-broken, but, alas ! she did
not believe that it was for lack of her. She
sat down assail on the bench from which she
had risen — she could not stand.

About three or four paces away from
them was a little cafe ; it had been so quiet
that she had not noticed its existence, but
now a sound of loud voices and uproar and
crash began to be heard from within. Kitty
was too much absorbed to hear it.

Monsieur Ursel,' she said, ^ tell me what
you can, what you will, about them all. I
have heard no news for so long,' she said
feverishly.

He leant against the wall beside her ; he
took off his hat and passed his long fingers
through his hair.

I saw him last in Eaton ^ Square,' he
said. ' I went to bid them farewell ; they
had been so good to me — how good I cannot

tell you — words fail me. I saw Miss Bellingham
; she told me that at last he consented
to leave home. The suspense was
killing him, she said ; but at last '

Where was he going ?'

I will tell you. He had jufet returned
from Dover.'

From Dover, ah T

Yes ; he had traced you there. He
went full of hope ; he came back half dead

with despair Ah! what can be the

matter ?'

He broke off so suddenly that Kitty,
much startled, sprang to her feet.

Two men, evidently in the most ungovernable
rage, had burst out of the little
cafe, followed by a crowd of eager men,
uttering quick, frightened remonstrances.
Just outside the porch the two antagonists
turned upon each other ; the foremost, a
big heavy man of fifty, rushed upon the

younger — unfortunately his own son — and
struck him savagely in the face.

Kitty could not control a sharp cry, for
she saw the younger man suddenly draw
backwards, as if for a spring, and the
sharp glittering flash of a long knife cut
the air.

A dozen hands stretched out were withdrawn
; the remonstrances increased in
vehemence as the spectators shrank back
from the vicinity of the dangerous Weapon.
The lad was beside himself ; having missed
his first stroke, he was gathering himself
together for another and more fatal one,
when Ursel, with one bound, reached the
spot. He seized his arm, he fought wildly
for the knife ; the young man turned all his
fury upon him, hitting him frantically before
he could be overpowered.

The father, subdued by what had taken
place, stood shaking from head to foot ;

VOL. III. 50

while the spectators half forced, half carried
the still raving son hack into the cafe.

Ursel was standing quite still in the
middle of the street. With his left hand
he had wound his handkerchief rapidly
round the right hand, the blood was pouring
through it, pouring in red streams on
the dusty road.

Are you much hurt ?' asked Kitty,
trembling from head to foot as she came upto
him. ' Only tell me what I can do.'

It is nothing — a trifle,' he answered.

If only, perhaps, Menello '

^ ' Yes, yes ; he will come at once,' said
Kitty.

She held out her hand, and made him
sit on the bench, then glanced at him again.
He was not looking at her — he was looking
away into space, and there was something
strange in the look of his eyes that terrified
her. What did it mean ?

She turned, and ran for Dr. Menello —
ran with the wonderful swift running: that
made her old companions sap in the old
days that little Kitty ran like the wind.

50—2

ADY BELLINGHAM found Et-tore
Menello much sooner than
she could have dared to hope.
He was just leaving the hospital, and Don
Paolo was with him ; they were talking
earnestly together.

Kitty told her story breathlessly. Menello
waited for no details, but dashed into his
surgery, re-issued with needful articles, and
ran up the road looking right and left for a
carriage.

Don Paolo followed him. Lady Bellingham
would fain have done so also, but her

knees were failing her ; the objects on which
her eyes looked were dancing round her.
She was afraid of fainting, so she went
slowly to Palazzo St. Isidoro, which was
nearer than her own home, and begged leave
to wait there, her account of the accident
making Marie as anxious as she was herself.

Don Paolo and Menello were fortunate
enough to find a carriage, and in an incredibly
short time they had arrived on the
spot.

Ursel had not moved ; he was leaning
back on the stone bench, with his head
against the wall. A little crowd was standing
round him chattering about the doctor's
coming, and discussing whether it would
be better to get him home or to leave him
where he was.

A glance at Ursel's face made the young
doctor start ; there was a kind of smile on
it — a strange, drowsy look — the eyes half-closed.

He glanced downwards hastily.
The blood was flowing in a slow, steady
stream.

Don Paolo saw his glance, and understood.
He obeyed every minutest direction,
the first being brandy — brandy, as much as
they could get down his throat.

Menello bound up the wound there on the
spot, speaking in a whisper to his friend ;
All right, we are in time.'

Then between them they carried Ursel,
who became gradually unconscious, into the
carriage, home, and so to his bed.

Just in time, only just in time! the man
was bleeding to death!' said Menello, with a
sigh of relief ' Who is he ? I did not
catch the name.'

Who ? Do you not know him ? Michel
Ursei;

Ursel .^ Santa Apostolic ! you do not
say so ! But this is terrible !'

Surely you said we were in time !'

Yes, yes ; tie will not die. But poor
fellow, poor fellow ! perhaps he will think ita
cruel kindness that we did not let him
bleed to death ; it is a gentle end.'

I do not understand.'

Menello gave a quick sigh.

Patience,' he said. ' Life is hard. Death
is more merciful. See, he moves ! I shall
soon have to resign him into your hands.
I can cure Abounded bodies; but broken
hearts I leave to you.*

'You mean ?'

Hush ! Speak low. The tendons of
the wrist are severed. He will never play
again.'

'Ah!'

Don Paolo hid his face in his hands. It
seemed too terrible to be true. It is not
death that is sad ; it is life.

Menello was bending over his patient.

When he looked up again the room ay as
growing dark. The short Southern twilight
was at an end.

Menello, whose movements were sharjo
and alert, came back to his side and spoke
low.

'I think he will sleep:) now,' he said. 'He
has lost a great deal of blood. It is only
exhaustion at present. If we can keej^ off
worse consequences he will be all right soon.
Would you not wish to go ? You can
do no good. He must be kept quite quiet :
and 3'ou have so much to do.'

And you ?'

Menello glanced anxiously at the bed.

I have a thousand engagements,' he said:
but I will keep none of them. I shall not
leave him to-night.'

You think there is still danger ?'

I do not like his looks. I am not sure
that he is as insensible as he seems ; and —

the man has seen his ship go down before
his very eyes.'

You thmk he knows?'

Menello nodded.

Pah ! how hot it is I' he exclaimed.
And how the bad smells of the town reach
us even here !'

You will not sit up all night ?'

Am I a soldier for nothing ? Have I
been through two campaigns without learning
to sleep soundly sitting, standing, or
kneeling if necessary ? And here is the
luxury of a sofa.'

To-morrow?'

Come early ; I shall want you. I must
be off by seven o'clock.'

Don Paolo still lingered.
Do you want anything ? You will let
me know ?'

Certainly. Stay ! Send me up the
papers and any books you can find downstairs

; and tell the landlady to send up
lights. That is all. Good-night.'

The Prioree went away, unwilling enough
to go, but aware that he could do no goodby
staying. He went homewards, a weight
on his heart such as he had hardly ever felt
before. What was to become of Ursel ?
How could he bear life bereft of everything
that made it joy to live ?

The great door of St. Onofrio stood wide
open. He looked in. The broad nave was
in deep shadow. Far away the glimmering
lamps which hung before the High Altar
made the dim arches and pillars into a far
perspective doubly long.

He went in. It was cold, with a chill
marble freshness. The faint odour of
incense lingered on the air. He knelt down
and prayed for Ursel — prayed till the
perspiration stood on his brow, wrestling
for a soul in deadly peril at that hour.

The night drew on. All [the inhabitants
of Santa Chiara had gone to rest. It was a
breathless night, hot and airless. The
moon sailed calmly through a cloudless
sky.

Menello had taken off his coat, had
thrown himself back on the little hard-backed
sofa, and had fallen asleep.

Far away the great deep-toned bell
of St. Onofrio clanged out two o'clock ;
nearer at hand jangled a shrill convent
bell.

The moon came in, and her light lay
square like a white sheet on the floor,
making; all shadows black and distinct.

Menello slept ; but he slept the light
slumber of an accustomed nurse. There
was a little sound scarcely audible from
Ursel's bed — a sigh, a very faint sigh — but
it was enough ; he was on his feet at once,
and bending over his patient.

Ah !' he exclaimed ; ' I was right then,
after all!'

He spoke almost vehemently, and with
rapid fi noses struck a match and lit candles
in the room ; as he did so, the blood was
dripping from his hand.

The light revealed to him Ursel's face,
his eyes fixed upon him with a glare so
terrible that he saw there was no time to
lose. He ran; the bell fiercely, violently.
He threw himself upon his patient — the unhappy
Ursel had torn off his bandages ;
the wound was open again ; another few
minutes and nothing could have saved
him.

The landlord of the house and his son
answered the summons. Obeying Menello,
they secured Ursel while he again bound
up the wound. It was a fearful moment.
Ursel fought hard, his face was distorted
with despair; he even attempted to tear at

the bandages with his teeth; and when the
work was done and he was safely bound
down, the sobbing, panting breathing ahiiost
convulsed him.

Menello made the men leave the room,
and he sat down by Ursel and took his left
hand ; the fingers closed on it as in a vice,
the nails entering his flesh.

Ursel,' he said, ' my poor friend !'
He was breathing hard himself — the
exertion had been great — the fear of failure
worse still.

The wounded man groaned deeply, and
muttered words between his teeth.

Monsieur Ursel,' said Menello, ' it
grieves me deeply to treat you like this.
Come, be a man !'

Five minutes ! only ^n% minutes longer 1
Why did you stop me? What right had
you to interfere ?' and with wild words he
cursed him.

'Five minutes between you and hell!'
said Menello quietly.

He did not look at Ursel, he was busy
washings the blood-stains from his hands;
he could hear the quivering start.

And what if I think any alternative
better than life?'

^ Must T not think also of myself and my
own responsibility in the matter ?'

Again the deep terrible curses.

Menello turned round suddenly.

Are you the only man in the world he
exclaimed, *who has lost his all?'

'My loss is a world's loss!' cried Ursel,
his voice sounding like a cry.

True ; but have you never heard of
great men being cut off when their services
were most required ? How did Beethoven
bear his deafness? Huber his loss of sight ?
I cannot preach, my friend — I leave that to
my betters; but I have seen a man carried

off the battle-field with both legs cut off,
with a smile on his face! I have seen a
widow close the eyes of her last living
child! Are you the only man on earth
who has been called out to suffer? Tell
me,' he exclaimed, suddenly changing his
tone, ' does your arm give you much pain?'

It aches — it aches !'

You are worn out ; you want rest.
Can you not summon up courage?'

I have courage to die.'

Courage to live is what I want to see.
Some philosophy. Come, my friend.'

Still the agonized look remained, the
drooping head, the eyes turning from side
to side, the wild muttered words.

Later, Menello gave him an opiate ; it
required force to make him take it, but it
was done ; and when the gray light of early
morning began to dawn, the unhappy Ursel
slept at last.

About f^YQ o'clock Don Paolo came in.
Menello met him in the anteroom, and in a
few words told him what had passed.

See, Prioree,' he said, ^ I will now take
some rest; but you must watch — not for one
moment must we relax our vigilance.'

Menello threw himself on the sofa, and at
once fell asleep.

The Prioree sat by Ursel, watching him
with sad eyes. He presented a terrible
spectacle — the bed-clothes drenched with
blood, the hair clotted and tangled, his face
drawn and haggard, as if with the sickness
of long months.

As the clock struck seven, Menello rose
from his sleep, refreshed, bright, and alert.
He came up to the sleeping man, looked at
him earnestly, and felt his pulse.

He will sleep another two or three
hours he whispered to the Prioree ; ' can
you stay?'

Yes; I shall be here when he wakes.'

No — not that. I will send in a Sister ;
when he first wakes, he will want food and
water and all comforts; afterwards go to
him. I shall soon be back.'

And then ?' said Don Paolo, touching
the long strips of linen which bound poor
Ursel so effectively.

We will see when he wakes. Adieu !
I will be back as soon as I can.'

By-and-by a quiet Sister came in, with a
gentle motherly face. Don Paolo knew her
well.

I am glad it is you, Suora Agnes he
said.

She nodded, and sat down, folding her
hands in the long sleeves of her habit.
Long hours passed ; then, presently, with a
deep, slow sigh, Ursel awoke.

Suora Agnes made a quick sign to Don
Paolo, who placed himself out of sight.

VOL. III. 51

Ah ! awake at last,' she said cheerily ;
and she went on talking quietly and gently
to him, sponging with Alarm water, softly
brushing out his wild hair.

Ursel lay all the while speechless, as if ina
strange, misty dream. Once or twice he
tried to move his hands, but not being able
to do so did not seem to disturb him.

When Suora Af^nese had done her work
she beckoned to Don Paolo.

'Come and sit here, Signor Prioree,' she
said, * while I go and bring something to
eat.'

She went away downstairs, and Don
Paolo came and sat down by the bed.
Ursel looked at him with strange eyes ;
then he said, very slowly :

" The tendons of the wrist are severed;
he will never play again." '

The Prioree started. He had, then, heard
Menello's words, low as they had been

spoken. He had heard them, but they had
been no news to him ; they had only confirmed
what he already knew.

God has withdrawn the gift he gave,'
said Don Paolo softly.

A fierce flash came over Ursel's face, then
died away ; the effect of the opiate was not
yet exhausted. He spoke again — so low
that the Prioree was forced to bend down to
hear :

" The tendons of the wrist are severed;
he will never play again." '

The Sister brought soup, and Ursel drank
it, and by-and-by he slepfc again. When
Menello came in in the blazing heat of the
afternoon, he was satisfied with the condition
of his patient. The dressing of the
wound brought ease and comfort.

Don Paolo gave a long sigh of relief.

The worst is over,' he said. ^ Will you
not unbind him now?'

51—2

A little patience,' said Menello ; ' I dare
not yet

And he was right, for the night which
followed was far worse than the first ; and
when Don Paolo and the doctor looked each
other in the face in the blue light of the
early morning, it was to thank God that it
was over, and that exhaustion had followed
upon those fearful paroxysms of despair.

Some days passed, and by slow degrees
Ursel began to grow better — to grow better
in spite of the agony Which threatened his
reason. His hand was healing, health
was returning ; and now Don Paolo began
his work. He pleaded with him as a father
pleading with a beloved son. He spoke of
Love, and Mercy, and Hope. He told of
sufferings far greater than human imagination
can reach, till the hard strain seemed
to melt, and some kind of softening light to
steal over the sick man's eyes.

'Now you will unloose those terrible
bonds?' said the Prioree entreatingly to
Menello.

^ Does Ursel wish it ?'

I cannot tell — he never rebels against
them now ; but it is piteous, it is horrible
to see him bound.'

^ If he rebelled against it, it would bea
better sign said Menello thoughtfully.
Then I might not hesitate.'

But as it is ?'

I think he may feel them a protection
against himself

But you say he could walk now if he
tried?'

^ Yes ; he is strong; enough.'

Ettore, trust to me in this. Loose him ;
let him be free. He cannot harm himself
with so many near. We will redouble our
precautions.'

Menello yielded. He loosed all the
banda-es. Ursel was free ao^ain.

The wounded man was still strangely
silent. He would listen earnestly to all
Don Paolo said, but lie answered nothing —
not even the acquiescence to the words of
resignation his friend yearned so to hear.
While he listened, his eyes were always
restlessly wandering round the room, as
though seeking something that he should
never find again.

It is all right — he is perfectly calm and
still said Don Paolo.

As the days went by, he was forced away
by his various duties ; and one day it
chanced that neither of the friends was
able to be there. That hour's interval was
enough. When they met again it was with
white faces, and hearts full of poignant
anxiety. Ursel was gone ; and nowhere,
far or near, could they find a trace of him.

HE Prioree returned home to
Palazzo St. Isidoro one night,
with a look of care and depression
on his fiice that his mother had
never seen equalled before.

Xo news ?' she said sorrowfully.
Nothing — nothing ;' and, to her consternation,
she saw that his hands were
shaking almost as if with ague.

You will never be able to preach to-nights
she said anxiously. ' You must rest,
Paolo

It will do me good,' he answered, with a

forced smile. ' 1 am altogether unnoted.
The concentration of thought will brace
me again. What o'clock is it, madamina?'

It is seven. You have an hour yet.'

Ah ! then get me coffee or a hoidllon —
I care not which — and send it to my
room.'

Your sermon is not then prepared?'

Not a word of it.'

Marie made no remark. She followed
her son into his room, and saw him sit
down on one of the hard wooden chairs.
The room was utterly devoid of comfort. A
deal table, bare floor, no stove or means of
warming it ; on one wall a tall, beautifully-carved
crucifix, on the other deal shelves
full of books.

Marie went away to fetch the soup. She
carried it up to him with her own hands.
She found the Prioree seated exactly as she
had left him, one hand supporting his forehead,

the other hanging by his side — an
attitude almost of despondency.

*You do not get on,' she said, timidly
laying one gentle hand on his shoulder.

I cannot,' he answered. ' I am overwhelmed
with remorse, with self-reproach.
How can I preach to others? I who have
failed so terribly !'

Marie came and gently put the food
before him.

'Courage!' she said. 'You have been
too incessantly successful, mon ami so that
you have forgotten how to bear failure.'

She spoke in a light, caressing tone.

He looked up at her sorrowfully.

Perhaps you are right, mother,' he said.
It is all my fault, my want of humility.'

Come and eat now,' said Madame di
St. Isidoro, with her French quickness of
speech. ' The principal thing is to be
ready to go up into the pulpit when the

time comes. As for what you have to
say, the words will come With the occasion.*


Don Paolo raised the soup to his lips,
then put it down untasted. He felt as if he
could not swallow it. Suddenly he took it
up again, saying, with a smile, ' Come,
come ! this also is a form of self-indulgence,'
and drank it down.

Marie said no more. She went downstairs,
put on her bonnet, and started by
herself for church.

The heat was intense ; the pavement
seemed to blister her feet. She glanced
up at the sky with a great longing. Would
the sweet, wholesome rain never come
again ?

A flight of broad, shallow steps led upto
the facade of St. Onofrio. The great
Avert doors were set wide open to allow the
hot outside air to come in and break the

vault-like cold of this great solemn Lombard
church.

It was still early, but people were coming
in, anxious to secure seats in the nave.
Marie suddenly perceived among them the
little slender figure of Lady Bellingham,
and she hastened to join her. Kitty went
half-way up the nave, pausing almost under
the twisted columns that supported the
great square pulpit. She had come for counsel
and help; she wanted to hear every word.

They sat and knelt long Awaiting, while
the shadows grew dimmer and the yellow
Altar lights glimmered more brightly.
Slowly the great church filled.

There was a heavy weight hanging over
the town — a dulness, a depression that
could hardly be accounted for. It seemed
as if the lamp of life burnt at a low ebb,
there was so much inertia and exhaustion
everywhere.

A great sea of faces turned upwards as
Don Paolo appeared in the pulpit, turned
with one accord towards him. Looking
down on them, he knew that the words
would be sent to him, that to-night he
would be a messenger from heaven. Some
souls in need might be strengthened on their
weary way.

The Prioree was suffering keenly ; he
reproached himself, believing that he had
been altogether mistaken in his treatment of
Ursel. He had spoken to him of patience,
of love, of comfort ; but was his soul ripe for
it? Should he not have appealed, not to
the man's weakness, but his strength, demanding
of him acceptance of his doom?
In his vast experience of great sorrows,
he had knoAvn the great truth that submission
must come first, the bowing down,
the cry of ' Fiat voluntas Tua !' and after
that came the time to speak of comfort and

of patience. But that breaking down of
will, that lying prostrate at the foot of
the Cross — that had never come to Ursel.
He had spoken of comfort where there could
be no comfort; he had spoken softly when
his words should have been relentless,
implacable. Learn first that this is the
will of God. There is no escape — none.
This that has come upon you is the unchangeable
fiat of your Maker.

It was not the first time that he had
failed thus. His heart was overcharged
with sympathy ; it ached so painfully for
the wounds he saw. He lived in them,
suffered in them ; and in bitter remorse
now he saw that he himself had sympathized
with that rebellion — had felt it was hard,
too hard to bear — and he had lost Ursel.

He read out in his deep musical voice,
every word of which rang through the
church, ' Woe unto him that strive with

his Maker. Let the potsherd strive with
the potsherds of the earth. Shall the clay
say to Him that fashioned it, What makes
Thou?'

Then he began to speak, and the listening
people hung on his words. They where
different from what they were accustomed
to hear from him ; this was no sermon
against sin and evil, such as had often
stirred their consciences and influenced their
lives ; no message of consolation, no exhortation
to prayer, penitence, or hope. He
put before them in great soul-stirring words
the mightiness of God, the omnipotence of
the Creator of heaven, and earth, and sea,
and he called upon the creatures to bow
down to their Creator, and to accept of His
hand the light and the darkness, the good
and the evil of the life that was not theirs
but His.

As he spoke, there came over all those

soft pleasure-loving Italians a dim sense of
the littleness of man, a momentary glance
at a vast magnificence which had not come
home to them. As he went on, some of the
simpler ones among his hearers shuddered
as if they could not understand. What
was this self-abnegation of which he spoke ?
this absolute surrender of will to God ?
The age Alas soft, he said ; it could not
cope with this idea of unhesitating, unqualified
obedience. Duty was wrapped up
in sentiment. Men talked of love and
comfort, men asked for help and implored in
broken words for happiness, when duty was
enough for all, and the first law of life
obedience. Don Paolo knew his people
well ; he knew the strange national character,
so full of complications, both from habit
and temperament, fatalist and absolutely
self-indulgent, and yet having within it a
capability of reaching a height of self-abnegation

and asceticism no other has
surpassed.

As he poured out his words, suddenly
his eyes fell on one anxious pleading face
gazing up at him — it was that of Kitty
Bellingham. An agonized thought came
over him. Here also was one straying out
of the path of duty. Should he lose this
soul also, as perhaps he had lost that other
despairing soul of whom he hardly dared to
think ?

The thought quickened his words. The
people shrank; it was as if a great map of
life were laid before them, and the things
they loved so well and looked upon as the
main good of the world, were shown them
in the proportion they would assume when
looked down upon from heaven.

The burning words sank into their
hearts. Kitty bowed her head between
her hands, and trembled from head to

foot — a new and searching liorht had burst
in upon her.

The sermon was over, the congregation
all dispersed, and still she knelt on, trembling.


At last Marie touched her gently.

'Come home with me,' she said; 'come
home, and rest!'

Kitty raised herself; she could hardly
have walked without the help of her friend.
Marie understood little of the feelings
which were thus overpowering her ; she
was puzzled by the intense agitation. She
led her indoors, and placed her by the open
window, and gently fanned her.

Poor child — poor little thing !' she
said.

Presently the door opened, and Don
Paolo came in. The light shone on his
grave and exhausted face ; he did not know
that Kitty was there.

VOL. III. 52

She rose to her feet with a little cry,
stretching out her hands with the action of
a child groping' hi the dark.

Tell me what to do !' she cried. ' I
thought I was right ! Has it been all
wrong? all wilful self-seeking? I am in
the dark — I cannot see which way to turn !
Show me the path of duty 1'

Don Paolo answered solemnly:
Those whom God hath joined together,
let not man put asunder.'

But he did not love me !' her voice rose
up in a cry. ' I thought of him — of his
happiness — before all !'

You sacrificed your duty to your God
to that false idol men call happiness

Speak gently to her, Paolo,' said Marie
imploringly. ' You will break her heart.'

But Kitty turned from her tender
hands.

Xo, no !' she cried ; ' do not share me !

I hunger — I pant for truth ! Have T sinned
in doing this thing ?'

You have sinned ; and this sin of yours
may be laid to his charge.'

'No, no!'

'Gently, l\aolo, gently!' whispered his
mother.

He bowed his head. He gave one glance
of pity at the prostrate head hidden on
Marie's breast, then Avent away, and left
them together.

52—2

Witty lay awake all that night,
tossing painfully from side to
side. The knowledge that the
course she had taken had been, not the
generous self-sacrifice she had deemed it.
but a wilful and wrong exercise of freewill,
had come upon her with all the shock
of a revelation; and the longer she thought
of it, the more was the bitter truth burnt
into her brain.

She left her bed, she paced u^ and down
her rooms in her restless misery. How
true the uncompromising words of the

ibi

Prioree were, came more and more home to
her as she realized the agony it would be to
her to return, to humiliate herself — she, the
unloved wife, to confess herself in the
wrong, and sue to be taken home again and
forgiven !

All her life passed before her ; all that
she had gone through in that home which
had been happiness and misery combined.
Her morbid nature exaggerated her own
faults and defects till she grew into the
belief that it was her own want of attraction
that had alienated her husband, and that
the self-consciousness from which she had
suffered so keenly had been nothing but
vanity.

The next morning she telegraphed to
Castleford, asking whether Sir Eustace were
there.

The day during which Kitty waited for
an answer seemed endless; yet when it

came at last, she could hardly summon up
courage enough to tear open the envelope.

The answer was, that Sir Eustace was
yachting — his present address uncertain ;
all letters were to be forwarded to Lady
Bellingham, at the Hotel dell' Arno,
Florence.

Her mother-in-law was then in Italy —
within one day's journey from her. Kitty
almost shrank from showing the telegram
to her friend, afraid of the advice that was
sure to follow ; but though she mio^ht
shrink and i:)ro eras tin ate, she was determined
in character, and what she considered
right she would do, let it cost her what it
might.

She knew what the counsel would be
before the words were spoken. She must
go to her husband's mother; she must not
delay the reconciliation a day longer than
was necessary.

Lady Bellingham had established herself
in Florence alone. At the last moment
Alice had accompanied her brother. He
seemed to cling to her companionship, and
her mother did not want her. She was
tired of her unequal spirits and somewhat
broken health. She fancied that when her
son and daughter would both rejoin herat
Florence, late in the autumn, they
would have regained peace, and resigned
themselves to the inevitable. And, meanwhile,
she made herself very comfortable —
made friends with several of the English
residents at Florence, with whom she took
long drives into the country after the heat
of the day; and she was inclined to think
that all was for the best, and that with
Kitty all the discordant elements of the
family circle would by degrees disperse and
vanish.

She was so thoroughly selfish a woman,

that when all about her were outwardly
calm and at peace, she was perfectly
content, neither seeing* nor caring for the
pain and suffering that were not actually
apparent.

Lord and Lady Austen arrived in
Florence about the middle of September.
The heat was so great that they determined
to stay there, and to give up all further
travelling until it should be cooler.

It was a great pleasure to Lady Bellingham
to meet Marion again ; she had always
felt for her an affection and admiration she
bad never felt for anyone else. It was
true that she had ruthlessly changed all the
tenor of her life, but that was in her
nature ; apart from that, and now that it
had all receded into the past, the old affection
came back stronger than ever.

Marion's sweet face was still worn and
tired; but there was a look upon it that

no one had ever seen before — a look of
rest and peace, of a great content — and she
was more beautiful than ever.

Lady Bellingham had not seen her more
than three times before she knew better
than if she had been told that May's weary
hunted life had found its anchor at last,
and that the great, unselfish, self-sacrificing
love which had waited for her so long had
found its full reward. To Austen the
highest, most perfect reward of all was
to see that he made his wife perfectly
happy.

So it was ; and now and then a selfish
pang of envy for her son would flit across
Lady Bellingham's mind. But it did not
dwell there ; there was too much self-reproach
in the thought, and self-reproach
was a sentiment that she would by no
means admit.

One afternoon she came back late from

one of the country drives that were her
great pleasure and refreshment. It had
been so hot all day that she felt fatigued
and languid.

Lady Bellingham was going slowly upstairs,
the active waiters following her with
parasol and dust-cloak, when, to her astonishment,
her maid met her, running to meet
her with an excitement in her manner that
altogether metamorphosed that dignified individual.
She had been lonsr enough in the
family to enter fully into its troubles.

'My lady, my lady!' she cried; 'her
ladyship has returned at last. She is in
the salon.'

What do you mean ?' exclaimed Lady
Bellingham, turning very pale. ' Who do
you say is in the salon?'

Her ladyship is there. Lady Bellingham
has come!'

^ Impossible!'

In ber agitation, Lady Bellingham went
eagerly forward ; then stopped, with her
hand on the handle of the door, trying to
compose her face and determine what she
should say first.

When she went in, she saw the slight
figure of her daughter-in-law leaning back
in a large armchair, in an attitude of extreme
lassitude ; but at the sound of her
entrance Kitty sprang to her feet, and advanced
to meet her with both hands outstretched.
Agitation actually deprived her
of the power of speaking, and she could
only look up in the face of her husband's
mother with large eyes and quivering lips.

There was no encouragement to be read
in that handsome, implacable face. Lady
Bellingham would not see the hands. She
swept past her to a chair by the table and
sat down.

This meeting has taken me altogether

by surprise she said; and her words sank
like lead upon the heart of her hearer. ' In
what character have you returned ? — as penitent
? as suppliant ? or simply to arrange
business matters ?'

Kitty clasped her hands together.

I have come to ask Eustace to forgive
me,' she faltered.

To forgive you ? You speak of it very
lightly. He must know first what he has
to forgive.'

Kitty was trembling from head to foot.

I will ask him !' she cried passionately.
I will appeal to my husband !'

I beg your pardon said Lady Bellingham;
'but that is impossible. My son is
not here — he is travelling. I do not even
know his address; and,' she added slowly,
if I did, I would not give it to you.'

Have you no mercy ? You who, of all
people, should know best whv I left him.'

I understood that the motive which
actuated jour most unusual conduct was
jealousy. This does not, and cannot,
diminish the disgrace that your flight has
brought on my son.'

Disgrace!'

Perhaps you do not know the meaning
of the word?'

Kitty uttered a faint cry.

Why are you so cruel to me ?' she exclaimed.
' I left him because I believed it
was for his happiness, and '

^ What has altered your belief ?'

Kitty staggered back ; she caught hold
of a chair to support herself. Lady Bellingham
went on :

You disgraced my son before the world
by leaving him as you did. I cannot recommend
him to do such an act of weakness
as to allow you to return. He would bethe
laughing-stock of his friends. What

have YOU been doing ? Where have you
been?'

I have been at Santa Hara. It was
Don Paolo who bade nie come back to my
husband.'

He did not know what he was advising,'
said Lady Bellingham. ' You must accept
the position you made for yourself.'

Not from you,' said Kitty, her spirit at
last rising in self-defence. ' I will accept it
only from Eustace himself.'

Eustace is far away. There was some
talk of extending his travels to the East.
He is resigned at last to the inevitable.'

He missed fine ! He wanted me !' cried
poor Kitty. ' Oh, Lady Bellingham, have
pity on me ! Only tell me that ! Give me
only that tiny grain of comfort in my sorrow,
that he missed me a very little.'

He missed his honour more !'

The cold words had hardly escaped her

lips before she regretted them. Every trace
of colour left the face and lips already so
pale, yet Kitty braced herself under the blow.

I have made another terrible mistake
she said, in a voice out of which all tone
had departed. ' Perhaps, since I have been
away, I have dwelt too much on his kindness
to me, on what I thought his affection.
I did not think that this would have
destroyed it. Perhaps ' — her voice was so
low that Lady Bellingham could hardly
catch the words — * perhaps I ought to thank
you for undeceiving me and putting me on
a right footing. I will do what is right.
When Eustace comes home, I will write to
him, and abide by his decision.'

With a strong effort she stood upright,
put on her hat, and wound the white gauze
veil round her throat.

Lady Bellingham rose ; she was frightened
at what she had done; her voice shook.

What do you want me to do ?' she said.

Let me pass,' answered Kitty quietly.
She left the room, and went swiftly downstairs.
She was in the street before she
had given one thought to what she was todo
next. The streets were crowded with
people, all coming out to breathe the cooler
air after the heat of the day. Kitty threaded
her way through them mechanically. She
knew that there were other trains that
would take her back to Santa Chiara that
night. Her one idea was to go at once —
to leave this terrible Florence far behind.

She was nearly fainting, between exhaustion
and misery, before she arrived at
the station. She found that she had several
hours to wait — long hours in that dreary
waiting-room. She tried to eat in the
restaurant, but she could not swallow ; the
neuralgia in her throat, which she had
scarcely felt since she had found comparative

rest at Santa Clara, seized upon lier
ai^'ain with its iron band.

At last she found herself safely within
the railway carriage, and alone. There had
come upon her a sense of utter loneliness,
of complete desolation, such as she had
never experienced before. It was overwhelming.
She thought of the tender,
almost superfluous, care that her husband
had always lavished on her ; of his protection,
his constant thought for her ; and,
in bitter contrast, the drifting about of her
present life. It was fortunate that she was
iilone, for the long pent-up agony broke
into a storm of sobs and tears; and, as she
rocked herself backwards and forwards, the
cry burst from her lips :

^ My punishment is greater than I can
bear!'

VOL. III. 53

E. Mello came into Palazzo
St. Isidoro about twelve o'clock,
and asked for the Prioree. He
was taken into the dining-room, where Don
Paolo and his mother were just about to
breakfast.

Will you give me some food?' he said.
I shall not have time to go home, and I
want to talk to you

]\Iarie's answer was to put before him all
that he could possibly need.

You must not neglect eating,' she said }

that is the way you busy people play with
your health. A doctor should know
better

He was very much at home with them
now, and he laughed and did full justice to
the fare which was set before him.

I think that when one is very strong
is difficult to believe that one can ever
be otherwise,' said Don Paolo. ' I, thank
God, have never known illness.*

'Nor I,' answered Menello. 'It is the
best gift of all. In the hospitals they used
to look on me as something almost supernatural.
Most of the students go through
some, at least, of the infectious illnesses.'

I wonder,' said Don Paolo thoughtfully,
whether we who are always strong can
enter fully into the sufferings of others.'

I look upon imagination as more powerful
than experience,' said Menello.

Perhaps so ; but it may be as defective

53—2

as the effect of colour on the colour-bled.
Who knows ?'

Well said Menello, ' we cannot hope to
be exempt from the common doom ; we
shall know some day

Please God,' said Don Paolo.
You desire it ?' cried Marie, shrinking
involuntarily.

Don Paolo answered softly, ' The way of
the Cross,' and there Alas a moment's
silence. Menello broke it. He had pushed
back his chair and risen from table.

I do not know whether you always
confide in madame your mother,' he said.
May I speak freely before her ?'

Tes, yes ; Ave have no concealments in
these times,' said Don Paolo hastily. * It
has begun, then ? I thought so, from your
manner.'

What has begun ?' cried Marie. ' What
are you saying ?'

It is only what we have been expecting
and preparing for said Menello. ' The
cholera has come.'

Ah ! God in His mercy help us !*

Where is it, and in what streets T

Three cases already answered the
doctor ; ' two in one family, the Lucius ;
another in the Borgo Alexandre.'

^ Who there?'

Matter; he is dead. The other cases are
in Brun's hands. He was im willing to
believe it at first, but I looked in as I passed
the house this morning. Bruni came out
to tell me there was no doubt at all ; the
symptoms were Asiatic, and of a virulent
type. Now, my friend, if you can come,
there are preparations at the hospital to
make at once. I want you to manage the
authorities for me. I wish we were more
ready,' he went on, with a look of care ;
but it is so hard to move these slow

officials. The disinfectants I sent for have
not even arrived.'

Don Paolo was quite ready. Marie stood
up to bid them farewell. She was very
pale. Menello looked at her earnestly.

Will you forgive me for asking you,
signora ?' he said ; ' but are you nervous
about infection?'

By nature I am very nervous,' answered
Marie, smiling with an effort. but I am
well used to conquering it, and I hope I
shall soon get used to it now.'

Try hard,' said Menello gravely. ' It
will be most valuable to us all by-and-by.'
He added suddenly : ' The little white lady,
your friend, is looking so ill."

But she is in Florence !'

^ Pardon — she has returned. I am afraid
she lias had bad news. But I must not
linger,' and he hastily followed Don Paolo
downstairs.

Madame de St. Isidore Alas startled. Kitty
had returned. It seemed impossible that
her effort for reconciliation should have been
rejected. She could not bear to think so.

It was the full heat of the day, when
everyone was lying on their beds with closed
persiennes, and as much ice as they could
afford in the room. But Marie could not
wait ; she went downstairs, hardly stopping
to throw a lace veil over her head and open
a great white umbrella as she hurried off to
the Casa Fossa.

She found Kitty lying down, worn out
and exhausted by crying, so unhinged that
her friend remained with her all day, feeling
that she could be of more use looking after
her than at home. Towards evening the
exhaustion changed into painful restlessness
she paced up and down the rooms, sat
down for a few moments, and then resumed
her walk.

Lady Bellingham's reception of her had
given her a shock from which she could not
recover. It was a revelation to her ; and as
she had more time in which to think it over,
the more convinced she became that her
mother-in-law was rio^ht, that the wrong: she
had done in leaving her husband could
not be so easily condoned.

a/

Marie did not know how to comfort her;
and she longed desperately for five minutes
of her son. He would know what to say.
It seemed to her a skein too much tangled
ever to be unravelled ; and she did not know
what line it would be safest and wisest to
take — whether to preach patience and perseverance,
or resignation to the inevitable.

After all, the tender soothing and caressing
she gave to her poor little heart-broken
friend was as good for her as any advice ;
and of this tender soothing Marie di St.
Isidoro was a very mistress — the very touch

of her hand and sound of her voice carrying
with them a comforting power.

It was growing late in the afternoon, and
Madame di St. Isidoro began to think of
returning home.

I wish I could persuade you to come
home with me, Kitty,' she said. ' I cannot
bear to leave you here in this loneliness.'

I almost think that I must,' said Kitty,
holding her hand fast. ' I am afraid that,
after all, I am not brave enough to live
alone

Poor child ! You have overrated your
own strength,' said Marie. ' Well, will you
come to-night, or wait till tomorrow?'

^ To-morrow — I must not offend the good
Palmettos. Are you sure you will not
mind ? Shall I not be in the Prioree's
way?^

He will welcome you ' she began, but

before she had finished the sentence she was

interrupted by the entrance of Signora
Palmetto, the landlady of the Casa Rossa.

She was a little, dark, stout woman, with
quick black eyes and an ever-gleaming
smile ; but this evening the plump face
seemed to have fallen into strange lines, and
her voice was strained and querulous. She
had two children — a boy and a girl — and
those children Avere the idols, of their
parents.

What is it, Signora Patron?' said Kitty,
at the sight of her face. ' Surely something
must have gone wrong?'

Santa Madonna ! Wrong ? I should
think things have gone wrong ! Why, they
say the cholera is come! But it cannot
be true; it must be mere gossip. Is it
not so, dear Signora Marchesa ?' and she
looked at Marie, wringing her small fat
hands.

And if the cholera did come, that is no

reason why it should attack you,' said Marie
consolingly. ' Alas ! it is the poor, who are
half starved, who suffer most.'

Then it is true?'

It is true that there have been one or
two cases in the town.'

Ah, then we shall go at once ; we can
never stay here. Beppo would never allow
it. Oh, la! la! what will become of us
all?'

Kitty was standing quite still — a bright
flush upon her cheek.

Signora Palmetto,' she exclaimed, ' tell
me what you have heard!'

Heard ? Enough to terrify any woman.
The Lucius, in the Borgo Alexandre, have
two children ill ; and Dr. Bruni has never
left them. And now Nine has just come in
crying like a child, asking me for blankets,
and I don't know what else. He says
Assunta is taken ill I'

Assunta? With all those little children
and an infant ! What will become of
them ?'

He was shaking from head to foot. "It
is the cholera!" he said. "It can be
nothing else." They say the Lucy children
will not live. Assunta was in the torture
of Purgatory. Blankets ! I gave him one
for the love of heaven — but it shall never
come back to this house again ; no, no !
And tomorrow Beppo must make up his
mind to go, for I leave the town, and I
will not stir without him. If only we
could persuade you to come with us, dear
signora. We have a little villa in the hills
of the Murillo — it is far from danger ; one
can get eggs and fowls there.*

But Kitty had risen to her feet, and was
quietly fastening on her hat.

Are you going out ?' said Marie wonderingly.
' Are you not too tired ?'

I am going to see what I can do for
poor Assunta/ answered Kitty.

The patron gave a little shriek.

But it is madness ! madness !' she cried.

Marie spoke very calmly.

Dear Kitty, have you considered well ?
You know that this is only the beginning :
it will be very bad ! Do you mean to make
it your work ?'

^ It seems so,' said Kitty, with a faint
smile. ' It seems as if other ties were cutoff
on purpose ; and my life rendered valueless,
perhaps also on purpose.'

These two ladies have no children,' exclaimed
the patron, shaking with fear and
eagerness. ' They cannot appreciate the
fears of a mother. If they would only
consider '

Lady Bellingham laid her hand gently on
her shoulder; but Signora Palmetto shrank
away as if it were already infectious.

It is not that I want to be unkind, dear
signora,' she began, with chattering teeth.

When I go, I shall not return here,'
said Kitty quietly. ' I shall probably find
lodgings nearer Borgo Alexandre.'

'No; you will come tome,' said Marie
decidedly.

Kitty looked at her earnestly.

You are not afraid ?' she said.

Afraid ? of course I am afraid ! We are
all terrified; but that is no reason against
doing our duty. I shall probably be
wanted by-and-by to help; but I shall not
volunteer till I am told to do so.'

My task to-night may be a very simple
one,' said Kitty. ' Probably only looking
after the baby.'

And you will not have an idea how to
swaddle it, my dear.'

Then I shall come to you for assistance.'


The patron stood with 'open mouth —
she could not understand how they could
speak gaily at such a moment.

I go to pack,' she said. ' And you, dear
signora, only say what I can do for you.
Of course, you would like all your things
moved at once? Of course, it will save
you much fatigue if you have not to come
back here. I will see to it all.'

Kitty could not help smiling at the
transparent little ruse. It was settled that
her things were to be moved to the Palazzo
St. Isidoro, and then the two ladies went
out together.

Good-bye, Marie I' said Kitty, as they
crossed the market-place. ^ Do not sit up
for me. If I can come back I will ; but I do
not know of what use I may find myself. '

Good-bye, dearest ! God be with you,
and preserve you !' answered Marie, as they
parted.

Kitty reached Mno's shop. He was a
shoemaker on a very small scale. The wife
and children lived in rooms above the shop.
Charity had made her acquainted before
with the family, which was very poor.

The shop was deserted, and Kitty went
through it, and upstairs.

The sound of terrible moans made her
stop and shudder; but she braced up her
courage, and Alas about to open the door,
when Dr. Menello came suddenly out.

You here !' he exclaimed. ' Signora,
have you heard?*

Yes; I have come to offer my help,' she
answered quietly.

'Help? that is well. This case is too
far gone for the hospital. I have a Sister
here, but the poor children are alone — there
is an infant. ISFot one single neighbour will
come near the place, and the Sister cannot
leave the woman one moment.'

^ I will see to the children

That is right !' he exclaimed heartily.
And one more thing — will you manage
the disinfectants? These people will not
try. They say it is the will of Heaven I
They will do nothing to save their own
children. You have power over them —
you will exercise it?'

Only tell me what to do.'

He rapidly gave his instructions; going
away to his other work with a satisfied
feeling that here, at least, his directions
would be carried out.

Kitty found her task no light one. The
poor infant was in a pitiable condition,
from crying and starvation. She sent out
one of the children to buy necessaries; but
to her consternation the child was hunted
back into the house by the panic-stricken
neighbours. But Kitty would not submit;
she went out herself, with the wailing infant

VOL. III. 54

in her arms, and insisted upon having the
necessary food and milk supplied to her.

She put the children to bert, and was
Walking about hushing the baby, whose
cries had sunk into little moans, when the
Sister came hurriedly out of Assunta's
room and called her.

The cholera-cramps were frightful : the
only possible relief was given by incessant
friction. The Sister's hands were almost
paralyzed. Kitty silently took her place.
The Sister sat down for a short space,

holding the baby, and falling into a sort

of rest.

So, through the whole of that night, they

relieved each other. With the cold blue of

the early dawn Menello came in. The

suffering ceased; collapse followed — and

death 1

Menello stood with a look of deep thought

on his face.

It will be terrible!' he said.

Kitty caught the words as he muttered
them to himself. The cholera had begun
with such virulence.

The Sister took Lady Bellingham back
to the hospital to rest, sending one of the
nurses to look after the motherless children.

51—2

Before many days were over,
Santa Chiara was in the midst of
one of the most devastating epidemics
that had ever visited fair Italy.
Everyone fled, who could do so, from the hot
streets, on which the sun blazed down day
after day with merciless brilliancy. Right
and left, in the tall palaces and in the lowest
rag shops and squalid dens alike, the people
and the children lay down and died.

Lady Bellingham did not return to the
Palazzo St. Isidoro. She remained at the
hospital. She was always engaged either

there or in nursing cases in their own homes,
when it was too late to move the patient, or,
as too often happened, there was not one
vacant bed.

Kitty seemed to have wonderful strength
given to her for her work. She never
flagged ; she was able to eat well, and to
sleep instantly at every spare moment ; and
she concentrated her whole mind and
thoughts on her duties, her previous
sufferings seemingly giving her force and
energy. It was a daily, hourly fight with
Death.

Kitty made no more effort at concealment.
She required constant supplies of money.
She wrote her own cheques. She wrote
openly to her mother, telling her where
she was, and divino her commissions for
things wanted at Santa Chiara.

Mrs. Brown-clifford, after one day of
horror at her daughter's proceedings, wisely

made the best of it ; did not weary her with
remonstrances, but only did as she was told,
and did it uncommonly well.

Marie di St. Isidoro did not take part in
the nursing. She had neither strength nor
nerve for the undertaking ; but she was as
useful in her way. She refreshed and fed
and encouraged the active workers ; she
executed their commissions ; she did all
they asked her to do ; she kept her kitchen
always at work preparing food for the sick ;
and some large rooms Avere turned into a
creole for the children.

For some time the people suffered
patiently — lying down to suffer and die
with a kind of fatalism against which
doctors and nurses fought hard. It was a
state of things exceedingly difficult to make
head against. The people would take no
precautions ; they would not use the disinfectants
; they insisted upon slaking their

thirst on the great water-melons they loved;
and, though warned again and again, it was
of no avail — they would not listen.

But a day arrived on which their resignation
gave way. Some mischievous idlers
living in the low quarters of the town began
to whisper that the cholera came not from
the hand of God, but was the result of the
vilely smelling stuffs that the doctors insisted
upon using in the streets and drains,
and in great abundance in infected houses.

Little knots of angry, careworn men got
together talking at the corners of the streets,
capping each other's stories : how the
doctors hung up sheets drenched with
strange drugs ; and how, wherever they did
so, the patient died ; and there must be
something in it.

The more ignorant the people, the more
easily Avere they led. The slain and terror
which had at first stupefied, now seemed to

madden them till they were ready for anything.
Yet, in the midst of it all, at the
hast symptoms of the dreaded pestilence,
hurried frantic messages were sent to fetch
the very men they were abusing ; and cries
of despair arose when doctors and nurses
were not forthcoming

doctors and nurses were Worked to
the utmost. Dr. Bruni was obliged to give
up, and leave Santa Chiara for rest ; and in
his absence Menello took his place as head
of the hospital. He was here, there, and
everywhere, morning, noon, and night ;
hardy, strong, and vigorous, with the red
line round his eyes of one who has never
sufficient sleep. The very sight of him ina
sick-room, with his brilliant smile, his
never-failing resource and energy, was
sufficient to inspire confidence. Yet,
strangely enough, it was on him that the
discontented vented their spleen. Tender as

lie Alas with the suffering was stern and
indefatigable in enforcing the use of disinfectants
; and sometimes enforced his
orders by dint of threats of real authority.

The angry feelings became more apparent
every day ; and they made Don Paolo uneasy.
He saw that Menello paid little or
no attention to them ; and he determined to
try and put him on his guard.

The Prioree found talking to his people of
little use ; they listened to him with their
habitual deference, but they reserved then-own
opinion, and never altered it.

One day the Prioree stopped Menello
coming out of a house in the Strata Real,
and promptly thrust his arm through his,

Come, Ettore,' he said. ' I will take no
denial. Come home to dinner. You hav(i
not dined?'

Xot yet, ]put I will. Only let me run
in here for five minutes — this is a hopeful

case \ a man from Verona ; I think be will
live. That will refresh me ; and I will
foUoAv you at once.'

I shall wait for you outside. You will
remember that I am waiting, and not belong.'


Menello nodded, and disappeared up the
enormously tall flight of stone stairs,
on the topmost flight of which lived his
patient.

Five minutes after, an upper window
opened. Menello beckoned, and the Prioree
went in.

When they re emerged half an hour later,
Menello was very pale, and he brushed
away the drops from his brow with a strange
look of depression.

Well, my friend ?'

I was wrong, you see,' said the young
doctor slowly. ' I hoped — and he is dead.
We must be reaching a crisis, now — no one

gets well. We are helpless in the hands of
(exod ! Medicines fail ! Skill and science
go for nothing! What remains?'

The burst of despondency startled Don
Paolo.

We must pray, pray hard that the
plague may be stayed,' he said earnestly.

Yes, pray, pray,' answered Menello,
for it has become a frightful thing. Oh
for rain ! for sweet fresh water and clouds
over that terrible blue sky, and a good blast
of fresh strong wind !'

He breathed hard, almost gasping, but
the air was heavy and hot, and the close,
sickening smell hung like a vapour over
the streets.

Menello shook himself.

MJome, come he said, 'I mast not
behave like that. Have you any champagne,
1^'iore? I am afraid of wine just now; but,
as it happens, I have not been in bed all

night, and I missed my tm'n of sleep at
the hospital yesterday. So give me some
food, a glass of champagne, and an hour's
quiet, and you will be doing good service.'

They found Marie and Kitty both in the
house. Kitty wanted to speak to Don
Paolo, and had come for the purpose.
When she saw Menello she began to speak
to him at once on business, but the Prioree
stopped her.

Not now, Lady Bellingham,' he said ;
let him eat and sleep.'

You. did not sleep, then, last night 'V

'No.'

Kitty and Marie went away to another
room. The Prioree took Menello upstairs,
and did not quit him till he saw him throw
himself on his own bed, and instantly,
without a moment's pause, fall into profound
sleep. Then he came down to Kitty.

She wanted to say a very few words to

him, but she could hardly spare the time, as
lier duty would take her back to the hospital
at once.

You wished to see me ?' he said kindly.
You know how willingly I would do anything
in my power for you, and not only for
you, but for your husband. There are few
men whom I know so slightly in whom I
take so great an interest.'

Kitty's eyes filled with tears.
It is about him I would speak to you,'
she said, pressing her hands nervously
together. ' Marie has told you what
happened to me at Florence ?'

Yes, but your mother-in-law's view is
not necessarily that of your husband.'

'Perhaps not,' said poor Kitty, controlling
herself with some difficulty. ' But
this is what I want to say. You know
how precarious life is just now.'
The Prioree nodded.

Any moment I may be taken away. I
have written to Eustace. I want you, incase
anything should happen to me, to send
him the letter, with some words from yourself.
You have so great a gift of persuasion,
you could make him forgive me,
and perhaps grant me a little love in
memory of the past.'

I will do as you wish. Just now it
would not be right for me to leave Santa
Chiara ; there is the infection to be thought
of, and the work here. Were it otherwise, I
would go and seek him for you.'

No, no ; now is not the time. He
is not in Italy ; lie may be very faraway.'


No, we must wait ; but do not lose
heart. I am very hopeful that all will go
well. He and you have both much to
forgive and much to forget. Do not be
afraid. God will bring it to pass.'

Then I may leave the letter with you?'

Yes ; it shall be as you wish.'

He was still .speaking when Marie came

in hastily.

A very urgent message has come for Dr.

Menello/ she said. ' What shall we do?'
He must sometimes rest said Don

Paolo. * A man cannot live the life he is

living long.'

I will go,' said Kitty. * If I find that
his presence is indispensable I will send
you a message.'

You are not overtired ?'

Oh no ; I had a long night's rest last
night.'

Kitty's face had on it a look so wistful, so
pathetic, that Marie could not help stealing
her arm round her, and kissing her yearningly.


Can nothing be done ?' she said to her
son, after she had left them. ' She is very

strong, and wonderfully brave ; but I think
her heart is breaking, poor child!'

I shall write to her husband,' said Don
Paolo quietly. ' He ought to know. His
mother is a woman for whom I have but
very little respect. She had no right to act
as she has done — no right whatever.'

It was not often that he spoke like that.
Marie sav that he was strongly moved, and
she said no more ; only nodded quietly, and
went about some of the numerous works of
mercy that fell to her share.

Don Paolo sat down and wrote his letter ;
a simple one, but long and full of detail.
He began by telling Sir Eustace the whole
story of the life his brave little wife was
now leading. He allowed the facts to speak
for themselves, making no comment on the
calm, reliable usefulness she shared. He
then went on to ask whether the reception
she had met with from her mother-in-law

was the same that she might expect from
himself; and he finished with a few short
words in his character as priest, pointing-out
that first and foremost in the battle
of life stood out duty, district, uncompromising,
but a sine qua non on the road to
salvation.

He directed the letter to Castleford, to be
forwarded, thinking that it would be more
likely by that means to reach its destination.


Presently Menello came in, bright, erect,
and rested.

^o message for me?' he asked.

The Prioree told him what had happened,
and he nodded.

* The little white lady knows all that there
is to do,' he said. ' My patients are always
safe in her hands. I will follow her. What
a crowd there is in the street!' he exclaimed
suddenly, as he perceived through the

VOL. iir. 55

persiennes an unusual gathering below.
^ Well, I must begone. Au revoir, dear
madame.'

And with his usual quick alert tread he
ran downstairs.

Don Paolo was slowly sealing his letter,
wondering whether he had said enough,
when quite suddenly a roar arose from
the street below, which made him leap to
his feet and tear open the persiennes.

At the sight of Menello on the door step
a great shout had risen.

Here he is ! — the assassin ! the murderer
! the man who poisons us, and calls it
cholera!'

Men and women gathered furiously round
him, menacing him with looks and gestures.
Don Paolo could see that he was keeping
his temper perfectly well; he fancied that
he could hear his voice in cheery, conciliatory
tones. But the fast gathering mob

was not to be appeased; some ringleaders
among them seemed to be urging them on;
they were pressing upon him more and
more. For a moment he all but lost his
footing, but recovered with a strong effort.
The din and uproar grew greater. At
last the Prioree, from his window, perceived,
to his horror, that Menello was actually
fighting for his life.

He paused not for a single moment,
but dashed downstairs. He was a powerful,
well-knit man. He forced his way
through the mob of struggling men and
shrieking women, dashing them right and
left, till he reached his friend. Menello*s
teeth were fast clenched, his coat was torn
to atoms. He had now a dangerous look
on his face. His strength, tried as it was
by constant over-exertion, was twice that
of any two of the miserably sickly crowd
of men who were attacking him.

55—2

restore!' shouted Don Paolo; and he
glanced back, crying :

Go back, go back, Prioree ! This is
no scene for you 1'

At this moment his head was violently
jerked backwards by a virago who was
tearing at his hair. He could not strike
her; he could only thrust her aside, and, by
doing so, gain the wall and plant himself
with his back to it; but his face was getting
more and more dangerous.

Don Paolo forced his way to him. The
people fell back, both from respect to him
and from the sweep of his powerful
arm.

Cowards ! Ungrateful !' he exclaimed,
and the sound of his voice, so familiar to
their ears, held them in momentary check.
Fiends ! To attack a man who is giving
his life to save yours !'

The poison ! the poison !' they shouted.

'Poison! There is but one poison, the
deadly infection of the cholera. He is engaged
in fighting it night and day. You
will not have it? So be it. Let him go
free with me, and the next victim shall die
without his aid

A perfect sell of rage followed his
words.

If we must die, let us die like Christians,
not like poisoned vermin !' shouted a
voice.

^ Why, Ponte !' cried the Prioree. * You,
of all people ! The Signor Doctor sat up
With your children three nights running,
and I heard that he had saved them all.'

Yes, yes !^ cried the man. ' But not till
I had torn down the poison sheet over the
door

The consequence of which was that
the others in the same house caught the
infection

And that is true !' cried a pale, thin
man, with a shrill, piping voice. ' And
not till you did that did my little Peeping
sicken; and she did not live. She died!
she died !'

His voice rose to a shrill kind of
wail.

The mob stopped their violent surging
to and fro, and Menello, with a vigorous
movement, shook himself free. The haggard
man thrust himself forward, shrieking :

'I will tell the truth— the truth! The
doctor did all he could to save her, and
when she went I tore down the poison-sheet,
and said, " If Peeping is dead, what
does it matter to me who dies also ?" '

^ He takes the bread out of the hands
of the poor 1' shouted the old vendor of
water-melons. ' He brought down the law
upon us when we were already starving for
want of something to drink.'

At that moment a frightful cry rang
through the crowd, and a man with wild
eyes and tattered clothes hurled himself
through them, gasping, panting, clinging
from one side to another, to rebound like
a wild cat.

Doctor! doctor! Signor Doctor ! Where
is Menello? Come at once. It has come
to us at last. I swore to the Blessed
Madonna that it should not come to us,
lout it has come. Serafina is ill; she is in
torture; she dies! Heart of stone! why
are you so slow?'

He had reached Menello, and clung to
him, his grasping, claw-like hands catching
at his breast.

Menello shook him off.

Why should I come to you?' he said
roughly. ' Let the people die. I have
done with them.'

A shout rose from the mob, a kind of

howl or wail. Menello looked round him
fiercely.

^ Am I a saint?' lie exclaimed. 'Am
I more than man, that you expect me
hourly to risk my life for such a reward
as this?'

And he held up his arms, from which the
torn strips of his coat were hanging, and
the tattered shirt sleeves, blood-stained
from bleeding wrists and knuckles.

The Prioree stood watching the scene.
He knew the man well, and had no fear
as to his ultimate action.

The changeable crowd broke into sobs
and wails. The unfortunate suppliant renewed
his passionate cry:

I have done nothing — nothing !' he cried.
And Serafina is dying, and what is to
become of the children? And it is torture
the torture is horrible. For the love
of Heaven, Signor Doctor — for the love of

your own mother, do not waste the precious
time! Hearts of stone!' he cried, turning
with a fierce snarl upon the crowd, ' this is
your doing ! And Serafina dies— dies — she
dies!'

I will not go !' cried Menello passionately.


Then the Prioree looked up, an anxious
light in his eyes. The crowd pressed close
now ; some went down on their knees.
They implored forgiveness ; they promised
anything and everything if he would yield.
A kind of despair had come over them.
What was to ha2:>pen if they could get no
succour at all ? The reaction was as powerful
as the tumult itself had been.

Menello stood quite still ; then, with a
violent effort, he seemed to master himself,
and he spoke in his usual voice :

Come, come ; if, after all, you cannot do
without your poisoner, let me get through.'

They gathered round him, j^^'^i^ii^g)
thanking, trying to kiss his hands. Their
demonstrations were intensely irritating to
a man who had just been actually struggling
for life among them ; but he could not get
rid of them till he reached the actual door
where the woman lay dying, and there at
last they dispersed, leaving him to the usual
hand-to-hand fight with Agony and Death, to
which he was so accustomed night and day.

The Prioree did not wait to see the end.
AVhen he saw Menello yield, he returned to
his own work with a smile on his face and a
thanksgiving in his heart.

:ADY Bellingham sat in her
large, cool, comfortable salon at
the Hotel dell' Arno, but she
herself was neither comfortable nor cool; in
fact, she was in a very excited state of mind.
She wrote a note with a hasty hand, rang
the bell sharply, and desired her maid to
send it off, and then to return to her. After
which she threw herself back in her chair
and fanned herself violently.

If you have frightened me like this for
nothing, Johnson !' she exclaimed when her
maid came back, ' I shall not forgive you
easily.'

It is not for nothing, my laclj,' answered
the maid glibly. ' I only repeated Avhat all
the world is saying ; there is never an evening
that we sit down to dinner without fresh
stories and fresh reports.'

Why did you never tell me before ?' she
said sharply.

Johnson hesitated. The truth was that
she had been very happy and enjoyed herself
greatly at the Hotel dell' Arno in the
company of an attractive Italian lady's-maid
and courier, and she had done her best to
keep all cholera resorts from her mistress ;
but the Italian servants were gone. They
had been seized with panic on their own
account, and had succeeded in alarming and
dislodging their family, and Johnson wanted
to go also.

Why should I alarm you for nothing,
my lady ?' she said.

*'If there is quarantine now established

on all the railways, we are already too late.
It is insufferable ! Your conduct has been
very bad !'

Johnson looked sullen.

What more have you heard now ?' said
Lady Bellingham, still fanning herself
rapidly.

Nothing particularly new, my lady. The
cholera is raging at Santa Chiara, the deaths
from 150 a day ; and there has been a riot
there because the doctors will use disinfectants.'


At Santa Chiara !' exclaimed Lady Bellingham.


It gave her a shock she could not quite
conceal. She herself had driven back her
daughter-in-law into the very midst of the
danger.

It is particularly violent there, my lady,'
went on the maid. ' You may remember
how I used to point out to your ladyship

what a crowded, unhealthy kind of place
it was — very different from Florence

But the quarantine T

They shut up all the people who arrive
in trains in a lazaretto, and keep them three
weeks.'

Three weeks !' cried Lady Bellingham.

Yes, three weeks, my lady. I heard it
with my own ears ; and the lazarettos are
not at all commodious. You have to herd
together as you can — three, four, and five
in a room— and just eat what they choose
to fling at you. This is what has come of
staying in foreign parts !'

I don't believe it !' exclaimed Lady
Bellingham.

There is another way, my lady. Li
some places they put you all together — fifty,
sixty, or a hundred — in a small room, and
shut up every chink, and then blow in upon
you some kind of gas, which smells fearfully;

and you choke, and struggle, and
scream, and fight, but they only laugh outside.
One maid told me she knew another
maid, whose lady had died of it. The gas
went into her head, and she had a fit and
never came round again. I don't knoAV
which is the best of the two.'

Almost worse than the cholera itself T
But, my lady, how can you tell when
you are in the lazaretto whether the person
sleeping in sour very room will not have
the cholera the next moment ? For the
whole object of shutting you up is that you
may all have it together.'

Lady Bellingham stamped her foot.
Go, Johnson T she exclaimed. ' Do you
want to terrify me, now that I have not got
Miss Bellingham to help me ? Let me not
hear one word more about it.'

And I am not to pack, my lady?'

I will let you know later. Lord Austen

^vill come and talk to me, then I will
settle.'

The maid Avent away.

Lady Bellingham was frightened out of
her wits. All the alternatives suggested
by her maid were dreadful to her. She sat
on thorns until the time came when she
thought she might expect an answer to her
note.

Marion came herself. She looked exceedingly
beautiful as she came forward to
kiss her friend.

Austen i^ out, I am sorry to say,' she
said ; ' but as " Immediate " was on your
note, I opened it, and came to see if I could
do anything for you. You do not look well.'

I am quite well, my dear May. What
nonsense! Nothing of the sort!' and she
rose hastily, and looked at herself in a
■siirror. * I am not at all pale or flushed.
It is not about my health.'

Marion seated herself.

I thoiio'ht something' must have troubled
you,' she said, in her calm, sweet voice.
Austen will be home this evening ; he has
gone to Pisa to see a friend of his who is
there — an Italian painter. It was an old
promise, or he would not have gone in such
weather as this.'

He ought not to go ; travelling is not
safe It is about that I want to ask his
advice. I want to get home at once, and I
don't know how to manage it.'

Is it on account of the cholera?'

I think even more on account of the
quarantine. People like ourselves, who live
well, and in healthy houses, and under
medical advice, don't have cholera.'

'Did you see the account of Santa
Chiara?' said Marion gravely.

Xo ; I hardly touch the papers now —
they smell so horribly of carbolic acid.

VOL. III. 56

Johnson tells me that they are all fumigated,
and it makes me so terribly nervous.'

You have friends at Santa Chiara ?'

Yes ; but do not speak of them — one
cannot bear to think of people one knows in
such a position.'

It must be terrible,' said Marion. ' I
saw something of cholera once, many years
ago, when I was a child. This at Santa
Chiara is one of the worst outbreaks in
Italy.'

My dear Marion said Lady Bellingham
fretfully, ^ can't you see how nervous I
am, and talk of something else ? Is it true
that there is quarantine on all the Italian
lines ?'

Ko,' answered Marion ; ' the Riviera is
still open. I suppose we shall be leaving
soon; shall we arrange to go together ?

In the middle of your honeymoon, my
dear !'

Xever mind that,' said Marion ; ' only I
don't think Austen will be ready to go quite
yet. I Avill talk to him about it.'

I cannot wait ; I must go at once.'

]marion saw that a sort of panic was
taking possession of her friend : her hands
and head were trembling.

^ Dear Lady Bellingham she said, ' do
not be so nervous. There have been no
signs of cholera at Florence — not a rumour
even ; and Santa Chiara is at least six hours
off.'

They say that one lady was killed by
the fumigation !' exclaimed Lady Bellingham.


Oh, but they talk great nonsense ! I
have been through it myself, and they
always make up the same story of the lady
being killed. It is extremely disagreeable,
but I am quite sure it never killed anybody.'


oG— 2

As sie was speaking, a waiter brought
in a telegram for Lady Bellino-liam.

Take it, Marion,' she said faintly.
Open it, and let me know the worst at
once

A horrible misgiving had come over her
that it brought bad news from Santa Chiara
that Kitty must be ill, perhaps dead.
Kitty was always present to her mind now
a painful weight on her conscience.

Marion opened the telegram.

It is all right,' she said cheerily ; ' nothing
in the least alarming:. It is from
Eustace. The yacht is at Civita Yecchia.
They will be here early tomorrow morning.'

What on earth is he coming here for T
cried Lady Bellingham, speaking snappishly
in her relief. ' I thought that he was going
to the East.'

This is what he says ' — and she read
aloud :

'* Shall be with you to-morrow, six
o'clock, with Alice, ready to take yon
home. — On board the Seagull Civita
Yecchia." '

Well, I suppose he has some good reason
for changing his j^lans.'

Perhaps there may be news of Kitty.
Ah ! that indeed would be happiness !'

Xot at all likely. How could they have
news of Kitty out at sea? Why, they must
have been at least three weeks already at
Civita Yecchia, if it is true that the Mediterranean
ports are closed.'

It depends on where they come from,'
said Marion.

Nonsense, my dear! It means that,
whether they ^'o in or out, or wherever
they come from or go to, they have to lie
rocking about outside in the open sea in all
the harbour dirt and smells.'

Marion did not attempt to correct the idea.

You will be all right now,' she said.
Eustace will take care of you, and take
you home. You must have missed Alice
dreadfully.'

I only hope Alice will come back in a
more cheerful frame of mind.'

Ah I if only this return might mean
news of Kitty !'

Lady Bellingham made no answer. A
misgiving had come across her that ]perhaps
they had heard of Kitty — perhaps knew
that she was at Santa Chiara. If so, whatever
happened, Eustace must be prevented
going there.

I Avill not let Eustace go to Santa
Chiara!' she exclaimed, Cjuite suddenly — so
suddenly that Marion was startled.

No, of course not ; why should he go
there ? What should attract him ? It
would not be at all prudent. Surely you
do not mean '

Nothings interrupted Lady Bellingham.
Only he is so obstinate. There are people
there with whom he formed the most romantic,
unheard-of friendship. You have
heard of Ursel ?'

Ursel ? — of course. Is he there ?'

It is his home. And Don Paolo St.
Isidore — Eustace thinks nobody equal to
hin.'

Ah, yes — the great mission preacher. I
knew him also in old days. He was very
good to my mother. I forgot for the
moment that he was there.'

Eustace shall not go ; you will help to
prevent it ?'

He is not likely to wish it,' said Marion
gently. ' Why should he ? He would be of
no use to them.'

He is so headstrong and perverse.'

Marion made no answer. She could not endure
to hear his mother speak of him like this.

Well,' she said, rising, ' as I can do
nothing for you now, Lady Bellingham, I will
go. Eustace will be able to take you home
quite comfortably. You see, he can have
no idea of going to Santa Chiara. He expressly
says in his telegram that he is ready
to take you home. Good-bye. Austen
may perhaps look in on you this 'evening ;
and, meanwhile, you might let your maid
begin to pack.'

I will, without a moment's delay.'

Marion returned home. Lady Bellingham
Alas left to her own unpleasant reflections.
Suddenly she rang for her maid.

'Bring me all the letters that have
arrived for Sir Eustace,' she said. And a
large bundle forwarded from Castleford was
brought to her.

Lady Bellingham studied them all carefully,
turning them round and round with
dainty fingers. There appeared nothing to

cause her misgivings ; and she tied them up
again.

Suddenly her maid returned.

'- Pardon, my lady, but this little thin
letter tumbled out — I found it on the floor.
]\ah ! How it smells !'

Lady Bellingham took it up eagerly, in
spite of the strong odour of carbolic acid,
and the maid left her.

Lady Bellingham saw the Santa Chiara
postmark, and flung it down as if it were a
stinging insect ! As she looked at it lying
at her feet, she grew excessively pale. The
handwriting was not Kitty's; neither was it
Marie's. It was altogether strange to her
The terror of what that letter might contain
was so great that she could not face it. She
hastily opened a flacon of aromatic vinegar ;
poured it over her own hands and the letter,
and tore it open.

It was the Prioree's letter to her son. She

read it through her brow o-rowino; scarlet
with impatience and anger that this man
should presume to rebuke her son.

Then a cold chill followed upon her anger.
What would Eustace say if it ever came to
his knowledge that she had repulsed his
wife ?

In that moment a horrible temptation
came over her to wish that Kitty would lose
her life among the miserable sufferers for
whom she was working ; and then the
Gordian knot would be cut, and he would
never know.

Lady Bellingham had become aware that
that day's action had been the worst mistake
of her life.

She deliberately tore up the letter into a
thousand tiny pieces ; and, not content with
that, lit a match and consumed them all
with elaborate care.

ADY BELLINGHAM sent a note
of farewell to the Austenss' villa,
saying that she had made up her
mind to go at once.

She kept her maid up all night packing.
Her longing to quit Florence had become a
perfect panic. She discovered that an
available train left for Genoa at 9.40 ; and
she ordered warm baths and breakfasts for
her son and daughter to be ready, so
that they might refresh themselves with all
possible speed, and be ready to start again
at once.

LadyBellingbamwas up and dressed ready
to receive the travellers when they arrived
the next morning, to their very great surprise.

Why, mother, is the world coming to
an end?' were Eustace's first words. 'Fancy
you being up at this hour in the morning !
and you look tired already.'

There is so little time to lose,' said Lady
Bellingham. ' Everything is ready for you
hot water and all ; for the train starts at
9.40.'

I donec think Alice ought to go on at
once, mother,' said Eustace quickly. ' AVe
have had a very hot and tiring journey.
She will be quite worn out.'

Oh, that can't be helped. There is no
time to lose. Any day they may put on
quarantine ! My one idea is to get you both
out of this horrible Italy !'

They saw how it was; and Alice stopped
her brother's expostulations.

I can manage perfectly well, Eu she
said. ' Only wait till after breakfast — you
will see how wonderfully refreshed we shall
be

Lady Bellingham, in her excited frame of
mind, had expected to see them arrive with
bright faces, full of eagerness over their
travels. She was intensely irritated by
the disappointment. The look of care
and anxiety had deepened, rather than
diminished, on her son's face ; his smiles
were rare and very grave ; he was so thin
as to be almost haggard ; and his eyes were
restless.

Alice looked very tired — so tired that, at
a calmer moment, her mother Avould not
even have dreamt of making her continue
her journey. The consciousness of this increased
Lady Bellingham's impatience.

Eustace followed this sister to the room
prepared for her, saying tenderly :

Alice dear, can you manage it? If not,
I am sure you could stay here for a few
days with May; and I would come back and
fetch you.'

On no account !' exclaimed Alice eagerly.
I can go on perfectly. I am only glad to
get back to mamma, for she is evidently ina
most nervous state.'

Eustace went away. He and Alice had
returned to all their old charming intercourse
with each other, and it had comforted
and helped both of them greatly.

Lady Bellingham would willingly have
hurried them over their breakfast, but
Eustace would not allow that; there was
really plenty of time. At last his presence
and undertaking of all the arrangements
had a soothing effect on his mother, and she
had time to ask them what had changed
their pLans and brought them to Florence.

The reasons were several.

Georgie, for the first time in her life, had
suffered severely from seasickness ; the
slow swell of an unusually calm sea had
proved too much for even her, and she wished
to land to recover herself. Then came the
cholera reports — getting daily worse and
worse — and rumours of the exceeding discomfort
of quarantine. Eustace determined
to go to Florence, and take his mother
home at once. The Milroy would stay
at Civita Yecchia awhile, and he would
rejoin them later, wherever the yacht might
be.

At nine o'clock Lady Bellingham would
no looser be deterred from starting for the
station. The bills were paid ; and, in spite
of the forty minutes to spare, to which
Eustace gave a little impatient sigh, they
departed.

The post came in early at Florence, and
about nine o'clock that morning a letter

was placed in Lady Austen's hands, which
caused her to leap up from the breakfast-table
with a little cry:

Oh, Austen, Austen! — a letter in Kitty's
handwriting !'

She tore it open.

Lord Austen was little less eager than
herself.

^ At last!' he exclaimed. ' Please God it
contain good news !'

Marion was reading: it through, the colour
coming and going rapidly in her cheeks.
She put it down with a kind of gasp.

*I cannot understand it!' she exclaimed.
She has been here; what can have happened?
Read it, Austen — read it aloud,
that I may take it in better.*

He took it up, and read :

My dear Lady Austen,

Will you forgive mee for troubling
you with this letter and the many requests

it contains? but I cannot do otherwise. If
I had known that you were at Florence
when I went there, I think I must have
gone to ask you to see me; but I am glad
now that I did not, for I think that if you
also had rejected me, it would have been
more than I could have borne. I did all I
have done from what I thought unselfish
motives. Don Paolo has shown me that I
was wrong; so now I am a suppliant, not
for reconciliation so much as for forgiveness.
Some day, perhaps, that may come.

I must not take up your time with my
affairs. I saw in the paper that you were
at Florence. We are, you know, in the
midst of a terrible outbreak of cholera, and
I am helping in the hospital. We are short
of nurses, for the pressure of work is very
great. I am in want of a great many
things, and you do not know how grateful
I shall be to you if you would send them.

VOL. HI. 57

to me at once with the smallest possible
delay. We want linen, and good wine, and
arrowroot, and flannel, and as much camphor
as you can find in the shops; and I
cannot oft crowd smelling salts here.

^ If you can send me these things, I shall be
thankful. My mother sends supplies from
England; but they come so slowly. I
enclose a list of quantities. You see, my
demand is not a trifling one; only, if you
can, please lose no time.

Dear Marion, I shall never forget your
kindness to me!

Your affectionate

Kitty.'

I wonder whether Eustace has arrived !'
exclaimed Lord Austen; and again Marion
started from her chair.

Arrived ! I am afraid both arrived and
started again. The nine-forty train — oh!
is there time ?'

I hope so. There may be. It is a
quarter past now. I will make all the
haste I can.'

Bring him here if you can. All depends
on his action now.'

Austen was gone before she had finished
speaking.

Meanwhile Lady Bellingham had arrived
at the station, and by dint of bribery of the
officials had been allowed to take her place
in the train. Then, and not till then, did
she begin to feel some sense of security and
comfort again.

Eustace would not get in — he was
cramped from travelling all night. He
looked forward to another eighteen hours
of travelling; in the blazing; heat with much
dismay. He walked up and down the
platform smoking, determined to do so to
the last moment.

He looked at his watch — two minutes

57—2

more remained. The guard unlocked the
waiting-rooms, and the passengers rushed
out. Secure in the possession of a coupe,
still he did not get in; when suddenly he
felt a hand on his shoulder, and a hearty
English voice exclaiming :

'Just in time — only just! My dear
fellow, I never was so pleased to see anyone
in my life. Make your mother get out
she cannot go ! Make haste, I say !
Lady Bellingham, will you kindly get out?
I have brought your son news of his wife.
You cannot start to-day.'

There was no time for a word of remonstrance
— the two men in front, Alice
urging behind, the guard shouting ' Par-senza
!' and banging all the open doors of the
carriages as he passed up the line. She
was out with her dressing-case and bag,
and had only time to see the agonized expression
on the face of her maid as she was

borne away in solitary glory in the departing
train.

Lady Bellingham sank down on the
nearest bench with a look of despair. Alice
attended to her while trying to watch her
brother, whose face had become so white as
to be almost ghastly.

It is all right,' said Lord Austen ; ' May
heard from your wife this morning. She is
quite well — she is at Santa Chiara.'

^ Santa Chiara!'

Lord Austen had not thought of the
deadly danger; the sharp shudder Eustace
o'ave when he heard it enlightened him.

Do not let us stay here,' he said quickly.
Marion wants to see you. Come back
with me at once. I am sorry to have been
the means of interrupting your journey,' he
said to Lady Bellingham, trying very hard
to be polite ; ' but we cannot regret it — can
we?'

They called a cab, put Lady Bellingham
and Alice into it, and saw them drive off to
the hotel ; then they also took a carriage.

Tell me what you can, Austen,' said
Eustace, with dry lips.

Lord Austen put Kitty's letter into his
hands.

At the first part of its contents his
amazement was keen.

What can it mean ?' he exclaimed.
Rejection ! What can have happened ?'

When he came to all the commissions,
he could hardly be restrained from starting
off to fulfil them at once.

They reached the Austenss' villa, and
Lord Austen left Eustace while he went
to find Marion.

She was waiting in a fever of anxiety.
When she saw him she ran forward, exclaiming
:

Were you in time?'

'Only just in time,' he answered. 'I
almost wish you could have seen the face
of the old harridan, Bellingham, when wee
literally tore her out of the train

'Poor Lady Bellingham!' said Marion,
laughing nervously.

And now,' said Austen, suddenly stooping
and looking into his wife's face, ' what
is the next move?'

'" Whatever you think best.'

This is what I think best,' he said,
putting his arm round her. ' You had
better see him at once, find out his real
feeling about his poor,' unhappy little wife,
and perhaps do what you can do better than
anyone living — effect a reconciliation between
them.'

I will do whatever you wish,' she said,
clinoino^ to him.

The very closeness of that clinging, the
pressure of her lovely head on his shoulder,

gave him a sudden little thrill of fear. Why
did she hold him so fast? Alas she afraid
of herself ? Was the recollection of the last
time they had met too much for her?

He moved a little away from her, and
said, in a voice that had suddenly grown
changed and hoarse :

Do not do it if you would rather not,
May;

She looked up at him, her large, soft eyes
full of tears.

^ But I would like to try,' she said. ' It
may be the fulfilment of one of the greatest
hopes of my life, that he should at last be as
happy as I am.'

My darling ! my darling ! you are happy V
he exclaimed passionately.

She answered very softly :

So happy, that all my prayers are
thank so^ivincrs. Has not God driven me
the greatest happiness on earth?'

He bad reaped the full reward of long
years of the most perfect unselfishness, of a
devotion unalloyed by any thought of self
He went away for one moment to the
window, and stood with bis back to her,
looking out unseeing on the blue hills and
olive-clad slopes of the wide Val d'Arno.

She came up to him, her voice calm
again.

I am ready, Austen,' she said. ' We
ought not to keep him waiting.'

Lord Austen left the room, and Marion
stood waiting where he had left her.

v^S^fe^T very seldom happens in real life
that a long-expected event takes
place in the way that might have
been expected. Both Eustace and Marion
had known that some day, and somewhere
on earth, they should probably meet again,
and both had thought with dread of that
meeting — dread of its pain, of the surging
misery of the past rising up again, and for
the moment overwhelming everything in its
force. The possibility of it had been a
nightmare to both. And now the moment
had come, and Marion's one thought was

how to make this man, whom she had once
loved so deeply, as happy as herself; and
Eustace could think of nothing but the little,
timid, gentle wife who was in the midst
of such fearful danger, and away from his
protection.

But as he opened the door, and saw her
standing by the window, the blood rushed
to his face and receded, leaving him deadly
white. She Alas so wonderfully beautiful.
Nothing in life could ever be to him what
this peerless woman had once been.

Marion came forward with outstretched
hands.

We have news of Kittle,' she said.

He did not look at her. He held her
hand, his bent head turned away. The
words he would fain have uttered would
not come to his dry lips.

She sat down quietly — her knees were
trembling; — and he stood in the same attitude

before her, striving manfully to master
himself.

It is very wonderful what this Kitty
of ours is doing,' she said, in that old
familiar voice with the slight foreign accent.
She, who is so young and small and tender,
has given herself up to a work from which
the very strongest and boldest have shrunk.
I have seen something of cholera; it is very
terrible. Kitty is all self-sacrifice.'

She looked up at him. He nodded his
head in acquiescence. What shoidd she
say? For a moment her heart quailed
within her. That he was suffering almost
to the utmost limit of mental suffering, she
felt and knew. Had she made a cruel
mistake?. Was her fancied kindness only
another wrong? Then a brave, unconventional
thought came to her, and, with
a quick prayer for help, she began to
speak.

Eustace she said, ' the time must have
come, sooner or later, when we should meet
again, and this first meeting must be strange,
almost as if we had both died and met in
another world. But the old past gives me a
right to speak to you that without it I
should not have had. . . . We have both
suffered.'

Still he did not speak. He had raised
his arm, leant it against the window-frame,
and hidden his slice ujDon it.

Her voice grew imploring now.
Perhaps I have been cruel, Eustace ;
but I wanted to tell you, the old sorrow
is healed now. If it were the same with
you, I would thank God. I am very happy
now.'

I am glad.'

He spoke hoarsely. Any Avords were
a relief.

She touched his shoulder very slightly.

I think also you will be very happy,
dear ; for you will go to her, will you not ?
Your little wife, whose blue eyes have
grown so wistful, so pathetic from watching
for one sign of love from you ! She loves
you as only wives love their husbands;
for you she would die. Nay, she has done
more than that ; because, in her longing
to save you from pain, she broke her own
heart and went away. You will not let
her hunger like this all thrush this life
that is so honor?'

He raised his head; his lips were quivering
still, yet he could face her now.
I am going now — at once,' he said.

God bless you, Eustace, and give her
back to you. All will yet be well.'

A wonderfully radiant smile was on her
face. Then he conquered himself with a
strong effort, clearing the hoarse tone of his
voice, and began to speak of Kitty's letter,

and how best lie should fulfil her commissions.
He determined to take all the
stores she required to Santa Chiara himself
that afternoon, and she undertook to get
them together while he returned to the
Hotel dear Arno to break his intention
to his mother.

When Lord Austen came in after his
departure Marion was quite unnerved, and
could not restrain her tears. For some
days he did not ask her to tell him what
had passed between thei.

Eustace had to undergo passionate remonstrances
and complaints from his
mother. She raved, varying her complaints
with agonized entreaties, till he
did not know what to say to comfort
her, and convince her that nothing would
alter his fixed determination. Alice was
the greatest help to him. She looked upon
his plan as inevitable, in spite of the terror

with which it inspired her, and her restraining
hand on his kept him silent. When in
the midst of his mother's ravings she told
him how Kitty had come to Florence, and
how she had thought it right to give her a
useful lesson and show her that she had
proved herself so deep a disgrace to the
family, Eustace controlled himself, but
his heart burnt within him. He felt a
remorse that amounted to agony that all
this that had come upon Kitty was his
doing. She, who had been so wonderfully
generous, and noble, and loving, he had exposed
to such treatment. He had failed
utterly in his marriage vows, and every
moment that she remained alone and under
the impression that his mother had forced
upon her, only added to his remorse a sense
of guilt towards her.

He got away at last, leaving Lady
Bellingham prostrate in a violent attack of

hysterics, and by three o'clock he was in
the train on the way to Santa Chiara.

The official of whom he demanded his
ticket could not believe his ears.

'Santa Chiara!' he repeated. 'Surely
not Santa Chiara?'

Yes, yes ; it is all right.'

But I suppose the signore knows that
once there he will not be able to leave
again? There is a cordon round Santa
Chiara which he cannot pass.'

Nevertheless, I go,' f-aid Eustace ; said
the man only shrugged his shoulders, With
a feeling that no one on earth could account
for the eccentricities of these En":lkhmen.

VOL. III. o<S

^^™^HE heat was frightful ; it seemed
\^ M^ as if that day the horrors of
<s^^^=^^^ that awful season had reached
their height.

Marie di St. Isidoro, who hitherto had
not been called upon to undertake any of
the actual nursing, had at last been asked
to help. Two of the Sisters had broken
down, one from overwork, one from an
accident, and they were short of hands.
Dr. Menello had insisted upon their removal
at once to a village near enough to be within
the, quarantine cordon, in hopes that a day

or two of rest would restore their powers.
Dr. Bruni had returned full of vigour and
courage, but he was a man past sixty. The
fatigue had told upon him, and he was not
more than half rested. Menello was anxious
that he should be spared night work as
much as possible.

And at last Marie was called upon to
assist for a fsw hours, and enable the
workers to rest. She was not of much use ;
her delicate little white hands were almost
powerless when she attempted the constant
friction that was the only relief to many of
the sufferers. She grew nervous and afraid
to trust her memory in the punctual giving
of medicines, and it was with tears of relief
in her eyes that she found herself free at last
to return home about seven o'clock in the
evening. She thought of Kitty, so strong
and indefatigable. In spite of her delicate,
fragile looks, her activity and strength

58—2

never flao^^ed, and Marie felt humiliated
that she could do so little, and very grateful
for the few kind words of praise and
thanks that Don Paolo gave her when she
reached home.

Eustace arrived at the Palazzo St.
Isidoro about ten minutes late. He had
determined to go there first, imagining that
in all probability he should find his wife
there, or, at all events, information as to
her whereabouts.

He found Marie alone, and when his name
was first brought to her she failed to recognise
it in its transmission through Italian
lips, and she came to meet him as to an
absolute stranger. Even when he advance
to shake hands she did not know
him ; he was so far from her thoughts, and
so much altered in appearance.

Seeing her polite, inquiring gesture. Sir
Eustace for one moment hesitated, thinking

that it was possibly intentional, and he
began to introduce himself stiffly.

You have forgotten nie, madame he
said. ' Will you let me recall myself to
your recollection? I am Eustace Bellingham.'


Then Marie gave one of those little
screams of delight that only Frenchwomen
give, and threw up her hands.

You have come ! you have come at
last !' she exclaimed. ' Ah, thank God,
indeed!'

Is my wife here ?' he exclaimed, clasping
the little white hand in both his. ' If she only
knew how patiently I have sought her, and
how I have despaired of ever finding her!'

And how was it at last ? Who told
you V

'' A letter to Lady Austen. Lord Austen
followed me to the station to tell me, only
just in time.'

We heard that you had gone to the
East.'

It was a mistake. I should, never have
gone so far out of reach of news. Will
you not tell me where she is, and whether
I may go to her at once V

I am afraid, greatly afraid, that you must
be patient still. Kitty is at the hospital.
You cannot go there — it is impossible ;
and she will not be free before tomorrow
morning. AVe are so short-handed.'

May I not even see her ? not tell her I
am here ? Why should I not go to the
hospital ? I have no fear.'

Ah ! that is impossible repeated Marie,
with a shudder. ' As to telling her, wait
till J^aolo comes in. I expect him every
moment. Let us hear what he says.'

It is hard to wait,' said Eustace
feverishly ; but he agreed to do so. And ashe
sat by Marie he drew from her the whole

history of Kitty's life since she had been at
Santa Chiara, of her brave self-devotion, and
the great talent for nursing and organization
she had displayed.

Don Paolo came in presently, and his
delight and thankfulness Avere so keen that
a new light seemed to burst on Eustace as
to the value and estimation in Which his
wife was held amono- her friends. During:
their long; talk too-ether that evening* he
perceived that Kitty was not the childish
little clinging creature whom he had learnt
to love for those very qualities, but a woman
full of strength and power of devotion,
unselfish and sweet — a character great
enough in its perfect womanliness to deserve
the name of " the little white Saint ' with
which the people had endowed her.

Don Paolo thought that she outfit not to
be told of her husband's arrival that night.
The work in the cholera wards would be

awful. He did not tell his guest so ; but
lie, also, meant to return there immediately.
Kitty Avould want all her powers to get
through it. On the morrow they hoped for
the arrival of four additional Sisters from
Rome.

Just before they parted for the night,
Ihistace having been invited to sleep at
Palazzo St. Isidoro, he asked the Prioree to
tell him what had become of Ursel.

Don Paolo never could well bear to speak
of that story ; but Eustace had a right to
know — the right of strong affection for a
mutual friend — and, with an effort at self-command,
he told the whole story.

Eustace was deeply shocked. There was
something about it that was fearfully
tragical ; and the former attempt at suicide
seemed to leave little hope that the unfortunate
musician might even now be alive
somewhere. He felt that there could belittle

doubt that his mind had been unhinged
by the shock of his misfortune.

When the Prioree bade him good-night,
they parted with a heavy sense of the great
sorrow and mourning lying upon the world.
Eustace threw himself on his sleepless bed,
trying to think of future happiness, but
totally unable to drive from his mind the
terrible story of Ursel.

The next morning the Prioree came into
Eustace's room about six o'clock. He was
excessively pale and worn-looking, but
there was a smile on his face full of joy
and congratulation.

AVe always have Mass in the hospital
chapel at seven o'clock,' he said. ' I thought
you might like to be there. Your wife will
be present; she always is. And then those
who have been at the night work go to bed.
I don't know what you will feel about it.
She ouo'ht to have her rest.'

Eustace wits greatly disappointed, bat he
saw the truth of it.

• I shall, at least, see her in the chapel ?'
lie said.

Yes ; and meet her after three o'clock.
You will let me prepare her a little first,
will 3'ou not ?'

Yes, that will be best. Can she come
here ?'

Mv mother will fetch her at three,
when you will find her quite revived
and rested. Now let us start. I have
changed my clothes, so I can take you
across.'

You have been up all night ?'

The work is heavy said Paolo gravely.
But as I Walked from the hospital this
morning with Menello — the cleverest of our
doctors — he spoke more hopefully. He does
not think the disease quite so virulent in
character. One or two cases have been

quite mild, which is a good sign ; and there
are some hopeful cases of recovery. For
instance, the poor fellow whom your wite
has been especially nursing all through the
night is really better this morning, and she
is very sanguine.'

Eustace glanced at the sky; they had
now emerged into the street.

• It does not look quite so cloudless as it
did he said ; ' but the heat in these close,
overhung streets is tremendous.'

He thought so still more as they came
into the piazza, with its stone pavement
already hot underfoot, even at that early
hour in the morning. Not a breath of air
was stirring.

The little chapel of the hospital was dark
and cool ; the windows were all of stained
glass. There was a division in it — a long,
carved screen shutting' off all the inmates of
the hospital, with the Sisters, from the north

side of the small nave, which was free to the
public.

When Eustace came in, Don Paolo left
him. He chose a quiet corner in which to
place himself, and from thence, with a quick
start, he recognised the form of his wife
beyond the screen. She was kneeling, with
her face hidden, quite motionless. The
chapel bell outside kept up a sharp tang-tang.


The curtain before the door was pushed
aside once or twice, and some one came in
and knelt down. Presently a man, wdtli a
face both good and remarkable for its expression
of keen intellectual power, came
in with a quick tread and took the chair
next to Eustace. There was something"
about this man singularly attractive to the
Englishman. White and worn as he looked
from hard work and scanty sleep, his brown
eyes were bright, his whole appearance full

of vigour and energy. tie joined in the
service, singing and responding in a deep
baritone voice ; and he was one of the few
communicants.

An instinct told Eustace that this must
be the Menello of whom the Prioree had
spoken.

The service was full of peace and refreshment
; the deep, musical tones of Don
Paolo's line chanting' seemed to linter on
the air.

AVhen all had left, Eustace did not move,
for he could still see Kitty's motionless
iigm^e absorbed in devotion. Long gold
and red and pimple lights fell on her from
the windows, and rested round her on the
white polished Poor of the chapel.

Presently a black-robed Sister came back,
softly said a few words to her, and they let
the chapel together.

When Eustace came out into the glare of

the piazza outside, he found Don Paolo and
Menello standing together. Menello accepted
the introduction with cordial eagerness.

'It is good to see you I' he exclaimed.
^I am indeed rejoiced! I have been
having' a little argument with our friend
here. He wished to leave our little white
lady to sleep undisturbed; but I do not
agree. She will sleep all the better for a
little happiness.'

But the shock of joy ?'

'Ah, bah! It would seem as if you
were the medical man and I the amateur.
She is very strong; joy will help her. Why
delay an hour, Ashen we live, as we do. with
our lives in our hands ?'

The words made Eustace start, and realize
the position he had almost forgotten more
forcibly than ever.

Menello saw it.

I forgot,' he said ; ' you are not yet accustomed

to such ideas. We are in the
midst of a campaign.'

Then I may see her at once ?'

Certainly ! I will go and summon her
to the visitors' room, where you can meet.
I think we can do without lier all day.
The Roman Sisters will be here at half-past
ten. Yes. You can take her back to
Palazzo St. Isidore ; but you will see
that she sleeps, will you not ? It is necessary
for her.'

Yes, yes,' said Eustace eagerly, as Ike
followed his conductor.

I will wait here, you two impetuous
boys !' said the Prioree, turning back to the
chapel. ' I want to speak to you, Ettore,
when you can come.'

The visitors' room was a large, bare,
whitewashed apartment, with a deal-table
and benches running all round it ; by the
window a few chairs, and some pots of

flowers, which had all withered, and hung
black and dead on their stalks for want of
care and water.

Eustace found that he had to wait at least,
ten minutes — and the time seemed endless.
]\Ienello, though he had spoken of Kitty's
strength with confidence, and his conviction
that she could bear it well, knew thoroughly
what the shock of joy would be to one Who
had lived so long in a twilight of sorrow ;
and it was with deep and skilful tenderness
that he slowly brought her mind to the contemplation
of possible happiness, and then
to the fact.

He did not knoAv enough of her story to
understand why her joy was so full of
trembling, and how it was that when heled
her to the door she stood hardly able
to make up her mind to enter. It puzzled
him ; and he turned to seek the Prioree
rather sorrowfully.

Kitty went in. Every kind of terror and
doubt had assailed her. She hardly dared
to raise her eyes. That bitter sense of
shame, that in her busy life had altogether
left her, rushed back with tenfold force. His
mother's harsh words rang in her ears.

He came forward with one bound, and
she was in his arms.

My wife ! My Kitty ! have I found you
at last ? Oh, child, child ! how could
you leave me ! Can you ever forgive
me?'

It was all right. The bitter trembling
doubts passed away for ever in the joy of
that reunion.

She strove to beg his pardon for her own
mistake ; but he would not hear of it. It
seemed as if all her task must be comforting
him in his self-reproach, trying to make him
forgive himself

There were a thousand things to ask and

VOL. III. 59

hear, but Eustace was inexorable — only one
short hour would he allow himself and her:
aid then she must rest.

He told her that Menello had said that she
could be spared most of that day ; and she
consented to return with him to Marie's
house. Happy and radiant as she was, her
soft blue eyes were almost closing with
fatigue.

As they passed the chapel-door together,
Menello touched Don Paolo's arm.

I was right — you acknowledge it ?' he
said with a smile and a quick, sharp sigh.

They were so absorbed in each other that
they did not perceive the two men who
stood together under the porch. These had
finished their business talk, when the Prioree
laid his hand on his friend's shoulder and
said :

^ I am glad you were able to come this
morning, Ettore mio

I also am glad,' he answered. ' In
these days every Mass may be one's Viaticum
!'

Don Paolo looked at him earnestly. He
had spoken like that once or twice lately*
But he looked well and strong ; his brown
eyes clear and lustrous.

Ah !' he said with a sigh. ^ Poor Bruni
has not that help. These are days in which
one feels most bitterly the misery of this
modern freethinking.'

Bruni is a splendid fellow,' said Menello
quickly. ' Be at rest about him — he will
not die ; he will have time. But I must begone.
Somehow I have a feeling that the
crisis is over. And look there! — a storm
is coming ! Ah ! if it would but break !
Think of the glory of a great rush of
rain !' And his sigh was almost a gasp.
Rain will be sweet and refreshing as hope
and happiness and reunion !'

59—2

Ah ! your mind goes back to the joy of
our little white lady.'

Yes ; it is a good omen. The shades of
night are breaking at last! Good-bye,
Prioree. If I can, I will look in late this
evening.'

And he returned to his work. The Prioree
looked after him wistfully.

A brave and singularly white soul !' he
said to himself. ' He is like a son to me.'

wife.

HE long hours of that hot day
passed in a wonderful dreamy
happiness to Eustace and his
To him, it was like a haven of rest
after a terrible storm ; to her, it was as if
she had found her refuge again, and a joy
that she had never dared to hope for : that
at last her husband had learnt to love her !
It was a very gentle, reverent love. No
longer the mere protecting tenderness for
weakness and dependence ; but full of
admiration, and with a great sense of gain

and thankfulness — a far safer foundation for
their future happiness.

AVhen Kitty awoke from sleep about one
o'clock, she found Eustace still watching
her. He had never left her.

A little later, a message came from
Menello to sav that she would not be
wanted before six o'clock ; for he had made
an arrangement to supply her place. So
they were able to remain together through
the afternoon.

The message, however, had given Eustace
a little shock. He so longed now to take her
out of danger ; to fly with her at once ; to
shield her from all risk and all suffering. But
it could not be. And very gently, but unflinchingly,
she showed it to him; so that
he grew ashamed of his selfish instinct, and
agreed to let her go.

The heat grew more and more oppressive.

About five o'clock a messenger came in

great haste to summon Kitty — her patient
was worse ! The fatal collapse had set in !
There was not a moment to lose !

Eustace went with her to the hospital.
The breathless atmosphere was overpowering
; and a strange lurid glare was on the
horizon.

I shall come here for news late he said;
perhaps about ten o'clock. Can I see you
then?'

Yes, at ten punctually. I will come to
the visitors' room. Oh, this atmosphere
must be fatal!'

Kitty, Kitty take care of yourself !'
he exclaimed, in a tone of passionate
entreaty. ' Darling, I could not lose you
now !'

She did not answer save by one look
as she went swiftly upstairs, and he turned
away with a strange sinking at his heart.

Eustace felt that, in spite of the deadly

heat, he could not go indoors. His steps
led him out on the Roman road, through
the great gates of the town, up the long,
dusty hill he knew so well — the familiar
way to Ursel's house. He wanted to watch
the great storm that was coming so rapidly
on its way. The cholera cordon was outside
the old restaurant. Beyond that cordon
was no exit now.

He reached the top of the hill, and sat
down to rest and regain breath on the
same stone seat on which Kitty had sat
when Ursel met with his fatal accident
some weeks ago. Before him, range upon
range, lay the blue Tuscan hills ; the sky
overhead heavy, leaden in hue like a mighty
pall. In the far distance rolled the deep
roar of thunder.

The storm, so long looked for, prayed for
with such longing, was coming at last.
Through the gathering darkness broke a

fierce o'lare of lightning;, and the roar came
nearer up the valley. Flash after flash rent
open the sky, and the thunder became incessant,
the mighty chariot-wheels of the
wrath of God.

Eustace sat still, watchings with a strange
fascination as the great storm came hurrying
on. A line of fitful green light seemed
to outline the mountains ; then it broke
straight overhead. The lightning blazed
round him, great purple and green flames;
the rattle and crash, as the huge thunder-clouds
met, shook the very ground, the
sound never ceasing. A sweeping blast
of cold air rushed through the valley with
a whistling sound, and as the whole heaven
seemed torn open with one terrific glare,
down came the rain in torrents. As if
a river in the sky had burst its barriers,
it poured down; it rushed along the ground,
leaping up to meet the awful electric light,

adding with the whistling dash of waters to
the mighty din of heaven's tremendous
artillery.

Eustace drew back under the portico of
the restaurant. The house was closed. The
pestilence had done its work there, and had
left nothing more to do. He clung to the
slight shelter as the storm tore and raged
around, half-intoxicated by the grandeur
and awfulness of the scene.

Suddenly, through the darkness and ever-increasing
din he heard the sound of a
human shout, and some one came reeling
in against the doorpost, catching at him
convulsively with a kind of laugh. He
held the man fast, and the next sudden
glare of purple light revealed to him close,
in his very grasp, the figure of Ursel.

Neither spoke. They remained, as it
were, locked together till the next vivid
flash came, and they saw that their eyes

were fixed on each other, fixed through the
darkness — in Ursel's an awful look — wild,
bloodshot.

He spoke first, the words shouted above
the din :

" The tendons of the wrist are severed;
he will never play again!" '

Ursel, dear Ursel !' cried Eustace. ' Take
me to your house.; it must be close by.
Ah, thank God we have met !'

Too late !' cried Ursel, in the same wild
voice. 'I have come over hill and dale; 1
have been racing the storm. They told me
far away in the north that the storm would
drive away the cholera ; and I have come
to seek the cholera, to clasp it to my breast,
if it will be kind to me and give me death !
But I am too late — too late! The storm
has won the race!'

Indescribably shocked, Eustace tried hard
to open the door behind him, and by a

vigorous thrust succeeded. He drew Ursel
into the little empty place, with its marble
tables and stone floor. He lit a match, and
was able to find a rough lamp out of
which the paraffin was not all gone ; there
was lio^ht enough to see Ursel' s face. The
unfortunate musician sat down passively,
his head falling on his breast. Now and
then he raised one hand and looked at
it very curiously and pitifully ; then he
turned round to Eustace, and repeated ina
voice which was all one cry :

" The tendons of the wrist are severed;
he will never play again !" '

The hot tears rushed to his friend's
eyes.

Dear Ursel,' he said, ' some day, when
this sad life is over, your right hand will
be well again, your old gift restored.'

I am not too late ?' he cried eagerly. ' I
have raced the storm ; the hills are far and

very steep ; my boots are almost gone!'
And he looked down on the torn and
ragged shoes upon his feet ' And the
storm has won the race. Let me go !' he
shouted suddenly. ' I have not arrived
yet. There may still be time. The storm
is here ; perhaps it has not yet reached
the town. Keep off ! Let me go!'

Li vain Eustace held him ; with all his
force he shook him off, and rushed out into
the full wildness of the storm. The thunder
clashed overhead with a splitting roar, and
Eustace covered his face with his hands,
commending the mad soul to God. After
a few minutes that seemed interminable, the
first fury abated, the rain settled down into
one steady dowmpour, the thunder grew
more sullen, and Eustace left the shelter, for
which he had conceived an insurmountable
horror, and with some difficulty found his
way back to Palazzo St. Isidoro.

He found Don Paolo and Marie waiting
for him in anxiety. At the first sight of
his face Marie uttered a little scream.

Ah! no more bad news!' she exclaimed.
What has happened T

There was no time to lose if any means
were to be taken to try and find poor Ursel.
Eustace told the story of what he had
seen. It was strange to him to see Don
Paolo's almost passionate burst of thankfulness
; he, ordinarily so calm and self-contained,
could not refrain from tears. To
him the relief and gratitude were beyond all
utterance.

In spite of the drenching rain and constant
fresh outburst of tempest, the Prioree,
with one or two hastily-summoned assistants,
started at once on their search. He
and Marie prevailed on Eustace not to
accompany them. He was wet through
and shivering, and, moreover, their plan of

search lay among streets and alleys not
known to him, and, though they did not
tell him so, into the very worst of the
cholera haunts.

The hours passed by, they did not return,
and at ten o'clock Eustace set out for the
hospital. The storm had spent itself It
was like walking through a hot-vapour
bath, pavement, houses — all steaming and
reeking, the water rushing down the ill-paved
streets in yellow rivers ; now and
then up a side street a cold, chilly wind off
the far-distant hills passing through, making
him shudder as with the hot and cold rigor
of ague.

He came in sight of the flaring lamp
over the hospital-door, which lighted
up with its yellow glare a statue of the
patron saint, the gentle physician, St.
Luke.

His ring Alas answered at once by a lay

Sister with a frightened, scared look on her
face.

Your wife has sent me,' she said, ' to
ask you to wait in the visitors' room ; she
cannot come at this moment.'

And the patient she was nursing ? He
goes on well?'

She has but now closed his eyes. Who
could rally in such an atmosphere as this ?'

And the lay Sister shivered as she brought
a chair and turned up the wick of the dim
lamp upon the table.

My wife is resting?'

No. There will not be much rest
to-night. They have just brought in
another patient, a terrible case, like those
wee had at first, that are, I am thankful to
say, rarer now This will not last long.'

Then I shall not see her?'

If you can wait, maybe she will be able
to spare you some minutes a little later.'

Thank you very much. I will wait anytime.'


The good little woman nodded, and went
away. Eustace sat by the dim flickering
lamp, resting his head on his hand, absorbed
in thought.

The great bells of St. Onofrio in the distance
clanged out hour after hour, but there
was no sign of Kitty.

Eustace made himself as comfortable ashe
could, leant his head against the wall,
and, worn out by the continued agitations
of the day, fatigue triumphed over discomfort,
and he slept.

He did not know how long that sleep
lasted, but he was aroused by a gleam of
light, and, opening his eyes, he saw two
"fixtures standing; before him — Don Paolo in
the shadow, with a very solemn, grave look
on his face ; his young wife holding a
lighted candle high above him, her sweet,

VOL. III. 60

serious face illuminated so that she looked
like some white sacred statue on the dark
background.

Eustace sprang to his feet.

^ You have come at last!' he exclaimed.
Then to the Prioree, ' You also? Tell me
how you have prospered.'

I thought Sister Agate had told you,'
said Kitty softly. ' Poor Ursel was brought
in about nine o'clock.'

You found him?'

Yes,' said the Prioree mournfully, ' I
found him. It is one of the worst attacks
of Asiatic cholera ; it is very awful.'

Is there hope?'

Don Paolo looked at Kitty, and she shook
her head.

You could not desire life for him she
said.

It is best as it is.'

And surely,' said Eustace earnestly,

this awful suffering will expiate his
sins?'

Surely, surely,' said Don Paolo, clasping
his hands together.

A Sister came in.

You are wanted,' she said to Kitty ;
Dr. Menello wants you at once.'

Kitty turned to her husband.

You will go home now, Eustace, will
you not T she said. ' Indeed, you can do
210 o'ood here.'

May I not see him ?'

Xo, no. Were it to any purpose it would
be your duty, but you can do nothing. He
would not knows jo^^*'

Very reluctantly he let her go, and, at
the Prioree's strong representation that
nothing could be so bad for Kitty as unnecessary
risk on his part, allowed himself
to be persuaded to go home.

He was back at the hospital at five o'clock

60—2

the next morning. The air was freshened
and sweetened by the rain to an extraordinary
extent. He revelled in its cool
dampness ; there was a life in it that had
been wanting for many a long, weary day.

Life, too, seemed to have revived in the
hospital. The stairs were being washed —
dusting, sponging, freshening going on ;
the lay Sister who took him into the
visitors' room was quite gay. Some of the
patients were so much better. One young-girl,
whose life had been despaired of in the
fatal collapse, had taken a turn about
midnight, and was much better.

And Ursel ?'

Ursel — who is that ? Oh, number
forty-eight ; I remember. Oh ! he is a
lost man ; but it is the will of God. The
cramps are very bad ; he is in a private
room. They say he has been sensible. Dr.
Menello was with him most of the night.

Bruni is there now, and Dr. Menello lias
gone to the women's wards. He will be
cheered by the sight of little Giuseppe ;
it will do him good!'

She chattered on.

Eustace walked restlessly up and down
the room. The hours passed ; then a little
pencilled note was brought to him, which
he could hardly decipher :

Have patience, darling ; I will come as
soon as I can.'

But Kitty came not. He returned to
the Palazzo St. Isidoro for pens and paper,
which he took to the hospital, and set
himself to letter writing with all his power ;
and the hours passed, and it was once more
afternoon.

At last the door was pushed open, and
Kitty came in, followed by both the Prioree
and Menello. There was a worn, exhausted

PRECAUTIONS.

look on their faces. Kitty alone did not
look so much exhausted as radiant. She
came straight up to her husband.

It is all well with him,' she said. ' It
is over.'

Was he sensible ?' asked Eustace ; and
Don Paolo answered :

For one short hour ; but it was enough.
He held my hand in one brief interval of
rest from that death-agony, and I heard his
words jufct breathed :

" Fiat voluntas Tiia^ Thank God !
Thank God!'

He covered his face with his hands.

Then Kitty, without sign or warning,
suddenly grew white as snow, and fainted
away in a long swoon in her husband's
arms.

^^l^^HE next morning passed, and
tel Sl^ noon, with all its tempered

freshened heat, and still Kitty
Bellingham slept. The house was kept
perfectly silent ; all the meals and necessary
business were carried on downstairs. She
was completely exhausted. Eustace sat hy
lier without moving. Dr. Menello came in
once, tried her pulse, smiled well satisfied,
and only bade them leave her alone.

'• The little white lady is under the
protection of the angels," they say at the

hospital he said. ^ Leave her to her
guardians

The long sleep, the awakening to perfect
happiness, all revived her wonderfully'. For
two or three days Menello made her rest,
after which she resumed her work with
renewed vigour.

It is so easy now, and so glorious to seethe
people getting well !' she exclaimed one
daye The worst is all over, Marie
dear.'

Ah ! and now you will soon be leaving
us said Madame di St. Isidoro. ' Your husband
has been wonderfully good and patient
but, alas ! you are no longer indispensable;
others can do your work, and there
will be no excuse for lino^erinof here.'

^ Eustace has been very patient said
Kitty, smiling. ' To-day he was beginning
to talk of where we shall sro to «'et thrush
our quarantine; and then '

'Home?'

Xot yet ; he has a fancy for another
honeymoon — a Ions; tete-astute somewhere
before we settle down again.'

Then you start soon?'

She had not thought that it was so near,
and the tears rushed to her eyes.

Eustace talked of Monday,' said Kitty
rather falteringly. ' The Roman Sisters do
all the work now.'

Monday ? Ah, well ! so it must come.
You will take the sunshine of the place
away with you.'

Kitty threw her arms round her neck,
kissing" her a^^ain and assail.

That evening Menello came to Don
Paolo, and asked him to walk with him.

I want to get out on to the fortification
on the west side of the town,' he said. ^ I
want to feel the sweet fresh air on the grass
slopes there. I have a little patient to visit

close by — a baby Alios mother died of the
cholera ; it is thriving under a very kind,
gentle little goat, that nurses it like its
own kid; and the baby is such a nice sunny
little thing that it always refreshes me to
see how well it goes on. The poor father
loves it dearly.'

The two friends walked together up the
green slopes that led to the fortifications.
The baby, as usual, was lying on the grass
outside its home, the goat browsing close
by; a very old crone sat knitting coarse
yarn, and crooning to them both.

Menello knelt down by the baby and
played with it a little while ; the child
knew him well, looked up in his face, pulled
his long moustaches, and crowed With
delight.

Ashen he rose and joined Don Paolo, the
answering sweetness of his smile lingered
yet upon his lip.

Over the far horizon the sun was goin<2^
clown in a magnificent baize of o'lory: the
distant hills, the deeply shadowed plain, the
grass on which they stood, were hated ina
golden glow.

Slowly, from right and left, great ink-purple
clouds came sailing up, each as it
approached touched with crimson hire — relentless,
irresistible, with mighty doors
closing round the dying monarch.

The glow faded — a still, gray twilight
stole over the world; in the west lingered a
long blood-red streak of light, and far away
the topmost peaks of the marble mountains
shone clear, transparent as the gleam of
rose-colour upon crystal, dying out one by
one into shadow.

Menello watched it all in silence; then,
still holding his friend's arm, they turned
towards the town.

The sun will rise on another world,' he

said; 'and Ursel's sun has risen where he
will have learnt how discord is turned into
harmony.'

Eequiescat in pace !' said the Prioree
softly. Looking up into his friend's face,
he was struck by a strange gray colour in
it he had never seen before. ' Ettore !' he
exclaimed, in a sudden cold terror, ' you
are not well ! What is it ?'

Let us get to the hospital,' he answered.
Do not tell the little white lady. It will
soon be over !'

'What is it? Ettore! Oh, my boy!
my more than son !'

He smiled a strange forced smile.

They were at the gates now, and by rare
good fortune found a carriage and were
driven to the hospital.

They helped him out on to the hospital
steps. There he stood for one moment
looking up at the sky. Two or three little

clouds still lingered, touched with rosy
light. Then suddenly he threw out his
arms with a short cry of mortal agony,
and they carried him in and shut the door.

Day and night, day after day, the crowd
gathered round the hospital door, women
and men alike with streaming eyes, hanging
upon the news from within, where Life and
Death battled with frightful force for their
idol.

And on the sixth day, as the crowd, in
tumultuous anxiety, swarmed round the
hospital, the great bell of St. Onofrio began
to toll solemnly, and an old Sister, with
the tears pouring down her face, came out
upon the steps and told the sobbing, moaning
people that the noble, pure young soul
had gone Home.

They received the news at first almost
with incredulity. How could it be that
one on whom they all had learnt to depend

80 entirely — so strong, so vigorous, so overflowing
with life and energy— should be cutoff
like this, hardly yet in the prime of
life?

The cry and wail that rose from the
crowd re-echoed down the street ; one after
another took up the bitter tidings and
swelled the torrent of lamentation.

Don Paolo, as he walked home from the
hospital, had on his face a stricken look, as
if the shadow of Death had passed over
him and withered him into age. For once
he had no words of comfort to give to the
sobbing men and women who pressed round
him ; the physical power of uttering them
had left him. He could only creep home
to fight out his battle by himself in solitude
and prayer.

Eustace and Kitty lingered on yet for
some days at Santa Chiara. They could
not bear to leave their friends in the first

hours of their grief. But the time came at
last, and they were obliged to go.

The dreaded cholera had done its worst,
and now every day showed improvement ;
anxious nursing gave way to care for convalescents.
The great heat of that awful
autumn passed away, and the fresh cold of
a healthier season set in.

Groups of careworn men used to stand
every day looking down into the dee)
marble basin of the Bruzzi fountain, watching
how daily the water rose and promised
soon to flow in its former rich abundance.


On one soul, Ettore's life and death, in
all the power of their strength and goodness,
had an undying result.

It was one of the first gleams of jo'
which came to refresh the grief worn Prioree,
when one evening — when long shadows were
dimminir the dark aisles of St. Onofrio —

PRECAUTIONS,

Bruni, the clever, pelf sufficient, intellectual
man of science, came to him asking



What shall I do to be saved ?'

AOLO/ said Marie di St. Isidore
to her son one day about Easter
in the following year, ' I have
just received a long letter from Alice
Bellingham, containing all the news of our
friends that we were hoping to hear.'

I am glad said the Prioree. ' May I see
it?'

Marie put it into his hand, and turned
away to attend to the blooming pots of
purple and white violets in the windows
which where again her especial delight —
while he read it.

VOL. III. 61

My dearest Marie,

It was very good of you to write
to me such a long and interesting letter ;
and I will try and answer all the questions
you ask me without forgetting any. But
it is a little difficult to write, for May is
singing, and it is so wonderfully beautiful
that it charms away one's senses. Kitty is
accompanying her — she says no one accompanies
like Kitty.

I think you would be satisfied with us
all now. Eustace and Kitty are perfectly
happy. He is devoted to her, waiting
> on her as if she were the most fragile piece
of Dresden china, instead of the strong
dependable character we know her to be.
There is something wistful in his devotion
to her — as if the remembrance of the past
were still strong. She is the most altered
of the two ; she has quite lost the timidity
that used to oppress her so much, and is at

her ease, with a pretty dignity all her
own.

Mrs. Brown Clifford has returned to her
house — sister, cats and all. She never goes
to Castleford, but little Kitty often goes to
her, and Eustace also — oddly enough, I
think he is quite fond of her. In fact, Kitty
has won everyone. Mamma is so very
fond of her now — ever since the day when
she went to see her at Georgie's house, very
nervous as to what she might say, and afraid
of a breach between herself and Eustace,
and found dear Kitty only ready to rush
into her arms and ask for forgiveness herself,
instead of giving it. Mamma was quite won
over. In fact, Kitty might well be spoilt if
she were not unsuitable from the wonderful
s^s^eet humility which is her greatest charm.

That photograph you sent to her is quite
beautiful. I found Kitty in her boudoir
crying over it as if her heart would break ;

61—2

and I could not make out who it was till
Eustace showed me the name, " Ettore
Menello," in the Prioree's handwriting. She
never speaks about the cholera-time — that
end to it was too terrible I and Eustace
asked us not to speak about it. He has
told me something of it, and of Ursel's
death.

'When. will you fulfil your promise and
come to England ? I think Eustace and
Kitty would be even more perfectly contented
than they are if they could welcome
you here, and Don Paolo, to whom they say
they owe more than words can express.'

Don Paolo put down the letter.

We could wish for nothing better than
that account,' he said, smiling. ' I am very
glad.'

Marie hesitated a little ; then she said :

And this invitation ? — it is so often

repeated. Do you think, Paolo, that some
day we could go ?'

Yes, some day, when I have time,' said
the Prioree.

But when will that be ?'

Ah ! when ?' he answered with a smile.

THE END.

BILLING « SONS, PRINTERS, Guildford

6/., 6'. & Co.

sja^ijM:

'^'W^

Ulm

University OF Illinois-URBANA

0112 049778993

L I B R.AFIY

OF THE

U N IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS



M288p

V.2

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

JUN 1 7 1

is

L161— O-1096

H IFloveL

LADY MARGARET Majestie,

AUTHOR OF
FASCINATION,' ' Sisters-in-law,' ' THE TURN OF THE TIDE,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

ipttblishcrs in ©rliinarii to ^cf ^titjesti} the %xu\\.
1887.

[All Rii^'his Reserved

Precautions.

CHAPTER I.

ELL, Georgie ! I suppose you
expect me to congratulate
you,' were the words with
which Sir Eustace greeted his sister that
afternoon, after he had heard the news of
her engagement.

I suppose so,' she answered shortly.
It is a happy release.'

'That is what they say when one
dies rather than when one marries,

VOL. II. 21

my dear,' said Lady Bellingham fretfully.


It answers the purpose very well said
Eustace. ' When is it to be, Georgie V

There has not been time to think of
that.'

Ah, lovers' rhapsodies to get through !
juste /'

I think we are too sensible for that
kind of thing,' said Georgina.

You are, I have no doubt ; about
Mulroy I am not so sure. You see the
business transaction is on your side, not
his.'

Eustace !' exclaimed Alice indignantly,
for she saw her sister's lip quivering.

^ I am anxious to divest the affair of
any false romance it may have about it,'
he went on speaking in the same way, half
lightly, half bitterly. ^ Don't let Georgie

delude herself into thinking that it is a
sacrifice for the good of the family ; the
affair is simply personal.'

^ I am aware of that, thank you,' said
Georgina haughtily. * Don't be afraid.'

Then I suppose you understand your
own wishes.'

^ I imagine that I do.'

'Mulroy is too good a fellow to be
trifled with ; of course he is a little ass in
some ways, but '

Eustace !' exclaimed Georgina ; ' don't
forget, please, that you are speaking of
my future husband.'

You are unkind,' cried Lady Bellingham.


I don't want to be unkind,' he answered
quickly. ' But, pshaw ! what is the use
of keeping up the farce ? It is the way of
the world to humbug and pretend. Among

21—2

ourselves, you cannot expect me to think
or say otherwise than that this marriage
is a misfortune for Muh^oy, and a disgrace
to us.'

Eustace !' cried Georgie indignantly.
I have said too much. I beg your
pardon,' he went on, controlling himself
by a strong effort. ' On these subjects,
perhaps, men think more strongly than
women.'

Say something kind, Eu,' said Alice,
putting her hand on his arm and looking
up at him with tears in her eyes. ^ Remember
what a serious thing it is to
her.'

I am not likely to forget that.'
He went up to his sister with outstretched
hand.

^ Kiss me, Georgie,' he said ; ' I did not
mean to be unkind. You can make upto

Mulroy for the wrong you are doing
him in one way : be a good wife, and take
care of his dignity

Georgina did not answer ; she was
swallowing tears of disappointment and
indignation with all her power.

Eustace threw himself into a chair, and
took up the paper. This engagement
was intolerable to him. With all the force
of his nature he rebelled against the
worldliness which made his sister determine
to marry a man for whom she had
no love. He was quite unable to view her
proceedings with calmness or justice ; he
never realized that to one who knew
nothing of real love — of its power, its
grace, its sacredness — such a sacrifice was
very different from what he deemed it.
Events which had happened lately had
lowered his standard of womanhood. His

own suffering had warped his reasoning
powers : he saw only worldliness in
Marion's unselfishness, and worse than
worldliness in his sister's conduct. His
pride suffered ; it injured his sense of
right, and embittered his own misfortunes
to a degree that made him almost wild.

I hope at least that you mean to be
courteous to your future brother-in-law,
Eustace,' said Lady Bellingham plaintively.
' Remember that you are now the
head of the house, and, if you please, act
accordingly.'

He shall not complain of me,' said
Eustace shortly.

A servant came in with a message, the
salutations of their landlady, Marchesa
di St. Isidoro, and a request to know
whether Lady Bellingham would receive
her.

She consented eagerly ; it was a relief
to break through a conversation that was
so painful. * You will stay and see her V
she said to her son, as he rose to make
his escape.

^ Too late he said, with a suppressed
groan, for the lady had followed quickly
upon her messenger, and was already at
the door.

She came in, the Marie de Seasons of
old days. Eustace had never seen her,
though she had become a frequent visitor
to his mother and sisters, and he looked
up with a sudden flash of curiosity. He
had often heard his uncle speak of her,
with the kind of half-tender, half-playful
reminiscence of a dead love, in which,
now that long years had chilled recollection
and feeling, he himself hardly believed.

Madame di St. Isidoro was a slender

woman, with a thin, delicate face ; she
was very colourless, and there was a dark
shade under each of the long almond-shaped
eyes which stamped her French
origin. She always wore the deepest
mourning, black laces and tulles round
her throat and wrists, and a black veil-like
cap on her soft gray hair. There
was a smile on the sweet face as she came
forward, offering her left hand, Italian
fashion, in greeting.

It is very good of you to receive me
again so soon,' she said, speaking very
good English, but with a strong foreign
accent. ^ I would not have ventured to
come to-day, but I will tell you the truth :
my business is a quite. Business, you see ;
and you must forgive me and try not to
show me that I am not welcome. This,
then, is your son ?'

She looked at Eustace earnestly, holding
his hand. ^ I am glad to see you,' she
said. ^ Who are you like ? You do not
resemble your sisters.'

Alice is said to be like me,' said
Eustace, feeling an immediate attraction
to the gentle woman who stood before
him. She looked at him so earnestly
that he grew restless under her eyes, and
she turned away her face with a sigh.
She prided herself on being a physiognomist,
and what she read in his face
troubled her.

^ But now for my quite /' she exclaimed
gaily ; ^ I will tell you all about it.'

Eustace brought forward a chair, and
she seated herself ' You none of you
know my son yet,' she said ; ^ but you
have heard of him, our Prioree — is it not
so?'

We have often heard of him, but I
have never had the pleasure of seeing
him said Lady Bellingham.

He has just returned from Florence.
He is musical, very musical ; he writes
beautifully ; he loves all music. He
speaks with great enthusiasm of a certain
Ursel. You have heard him play V

Yes,' exclaimed Alice enthusiastically.
^ He plays magnificently ; he will be one
of the greatest violinists in the world.'

So says Don Paolo, my Prioree — he is
wild about this man. But he says also
that he is very poor ; that he has married
the most foolish little wife ; that he has
enormous talent, but a shocking violin, so
that his genius is wasted, absolutely thrown
away.'

And you propose a quite for him V
said Lady Bellingham, trying to look interested

; it all seemed so trivial and dull
to her, in the middle of her tumultuous
thoughts and plans.

Yes ; to procure him a really good
violin. There is one to be had now at
Vanni's — do you know the shop ? It is
a wonderful instrument, a Straduarius ;
it has a marvellous perfection of tone.
My Prioree has set his heart on purchasing
it for Ursel, and has started a quite.'

^ What is the price V asked Eustace,
with interest.

^ Ah ! the price is high. Vanni asks
eve thousand francs ; but Paolo is sure
that he will let it go for four thousand.
You see, it is difficult to sell objects of
so high a price at Santa Chiara ; he will
be glad of the opportunity.'

'And have you already succeeded in
collecting any money ?' said Alice.

Yes ; I have asked many friends. It
is a good work, one of real charity, for I
believe it would be the making of Ursel.
But we are not rich at Santa Chiara.
Paolo says ask, ask, and ask for all his
charities ; and now when people see me
come, they prepare their five-franc pieces ;
but all put together, it is a long way to
go before we reach four thousand francs.
I have collected about eighty.'

So Eustace put his hand into his
pocket. This straightforward foreign
system of begging for good works embarrassed
him. He wondered what he
ought to give ; it made him shy, but
Lady Bellingham interposed :

^ I will give you ten francs, Marie,' she
said. ' Will that do V

Thank jo\x a thousand times ; if everyone
gave me ten francs, we should soon

reach our sum,' said Madame di St.
Isidore sweetly. * And you, my friend
will you also give me ten francs for the
good work ?'

There was something so gentle and
winning in her face, that Eustace wished
the two napoleons he offered her were
fifty. She took them very quietly, not expressing
more gratitude for them than for
Alice's ^YQ francs, and Georgie's regrets
that she could not manage more than three.

I hope you will succeed,' he said
warmly, as she rose to go.

^ I hope so, too,' she answered. * I
am not sure ; it is a large sum. But
Paolo is one of those people who always
succeed in the long-run ; he will not be
denied. You ought to know him ; I
should like to make you acquainted. Will
you come and see me and him V

^ If you permit me.'

Well then, sans adieu. I receive
every Thursday evening after seven. It
will be a pleasure to see you.'

What a charming woman !' exclaimed
Sir Eustace, when she had left them.
She is most fascinating.'

^ You always do like foreigners and
foreign ways,' said Georgina. ^ I cannot
say I agree with you. Why does she
come teasing us with her quotes ? I am
sure Ursel would get on without her.'

Do you think she will ever get together
four thousand francs ?' said Lady
Bellingham. ' I do not think she will.'

She says Don Paolo never fails,' said
Alice. * And people say wonderful
things about him. He is looked upon asa
kind of saint here.'

Come out, Alice,' said her brother.

Let us have a walk ; this room is
stifling

I will come at once she answered
brightly, running away to dress.

Lady Bellingham gave a sigh of relief ;
it would be pleasant to be free of both of
them for a short time. Alice had a lookin
her large eyes which conveyed as much
disapproval as her brother's outspoken
words. She and Georgie would enjoy
themselves, untroubled by lofty ideals ;
they would throw all scruples to the wind,
and have a comfortable talk over the
trousseau.

LICE could hardly keep up with
her brother's long strides, as,
unconscious of his pace, he
crossed the town.

Pah ! these dark, narrow streets smell I
I hope to goodness my mother won't
make up her mind to stay in any of these
odious foreign towns.'

Alice did not answer, save by a quickly
suppressed sigh.

Why can't you live quietly in
England ?'

^ There is a limit to even quiet living
in England, Eustace, and that limit has
been reached.'

Pshaw ! People have lived and done
well on half my mother's income.'

^ But, dear old boy,' said Alice gently,
surely it is better to live where one is
happiest.'

After all, it is for your own sake I
speak,' he answered. ' I only want to
guard against settling anywhere abroad.
I suppose one has a superstition that
one's own country is the most respectable.'


Poor mamma ! she has many cares.'

Eustace's sigh almost amounted to a
groan. The hour of sunset was approaching,
and the country round was bathed ina
flood of luminous gold. Almost unconsciously
Eustace had followed the road

VOL. II. 22

he had taken before, and they now found
themselves close to the violinist's villa.

That is where Michel Ursel lives,'
said he suddenly, and Alice looked up
with quick interest.

In the painted loggia above her a
young, gay-looking woman was sitting.
She looked down on them and smiled and
nodded, showing a row of brilliant white
teeth. As she did so a door behind her
opened, and Ursel himself came forward
and looked out. His eyes rested on the
brother and sister, and he was just about
to draw back, when a little thrill of recognition
passed over his face, and he slowly
took off his hat and bowed.

It was a remarkable face ; the brow
very large and massive, much too large
for beauty, and brought into greater 23ro-
minencebythe extreme thinness of the face

it seemed as if the skin were stretched
so tightly as to display the shape of the
bones ; the heavy brows overhung deeply-set
eyes, with large eyelids, which half
closed over them, except in moments of
animation. He had a thick bush of fair
hair, brushed straight backwards in German
fashion ; his thin-lipped, mobile
mouth was shaded by an immense fair
moustache.

The face of the maestro, as he looked
down on them, was serene and very calm.
The bright little woman beside him was
dressed, not like a peasant, but one of the
mezzo ceto. She evidently saw something
that attracted her in Alice's face
for she quickly gathered a couple of
carnations from a 2K)t standing at her
right hand.

Signora, see !' she exclaimed, and

22 2

threw them down. AHce caught them,
and nodded her smiling thanks as she
fastened them into her gown. There
was a fluttering sound ; a roll of music
on the parapet had been displaced by
the movement, and, rolling over, fell at
their feet.

Eustace picked it up. Ursel uttered a
hasty exclamation, and ran downstairs.

A thousand pardons, sir,' he said,
speaking in English with a strong accent.
VMy giddy wife is always doing mischief

Apparently the little wife also wanted
to see what was going on, for she came
tripping down behind her husband, and
stood, half hiding, peeping at the English
young lady, who evidently attracted her
strongly.

Eustace gave back the papers he had
gathered together, and, as he did so, said :

May we at least tell you how greatly
we have enjoyed your playing, Signor
Ursel V

Ah ! I am honoured,' with a stiff little
bow.

Ask them to come in, Michel — ah,
do !' whispered the young wife. Then
plucking up courage, as her husband made
no sign, she began : ' The garden is very
pretty ; our joadrona makes good coffee.
Will you come in, signora ?'

Alice glanced at Eustace to ascertain
his wishes before she answered. She was
very tender to this big brother of hers,
knowing the bitter trial through which he
was passing. Her whole thoughts were
bent on trying to smooth the roughnesses
of life before him. She saw a
look of interest in his face, and accepted.

Si mora Ursel went first, showing the

way. They passed through yellow-washed
passages and two anterooms with walls
cleverly frescoed in imitation of festooned
draperies and blue landscapes ; after which
they came out upon a most characteristic
little garden. It was sheltered from the
road by a very high wall with rude
patterns pargeted over its rough-plastered
surface. On the farther side
there was nothing to obstruct the wide-spreading
view of plain and hills, olive
and vine yards. The foreground presented
an idealized tea-garden on a very small
scale. There were bowers over which,
in sunder, creepers hung, and little
golden yellow pumpkins in rich luxuriance
; small iron tables with spindle legs,
and attenuated chairs ; a tiny basin of
water in which danced a little gurgling
jet of water; a few old busts cm pedestals;

a certain moss grown untidiness which had
a charm of its own.

Signora Ursel beckoned to Alice to
approach, pointed to a chair, and seating
herself, said to her husband, without
turning her head :

^ Shall we not have coffee ?'

Is it not too cold ? Will you not
come indoors V

It is such a pretty place,' said Sir
Eustace ; ' and wonderfully warm this
evening, in spite of the winter season
Where are we ? What is this house V

'It is a very small and humble
restaurant,' answered Ursel, glancing
uneasily at his guests. ' My wife is
indiscreet. What is there to attract
you here ? Forgive her ; she knows
no foreigners.'

'The place is exceedingly attractive,'

answered Eustace quickly. ' We are delighted
to be here. Can we order coffee?
Will you allow us to order some and to
drink it with you V

^ But said Ursel, still looking perturbed,
we shall not be alone long. To this cafe
come my friends. They are sometimes
many. They are musicians like myself,
not of the world to which you belong.'

^ If we are in the way,' began Eustace,
rising ; but Ursel leapt up. He was
embarrassed between his great wish to be
hospitable and his fear lest these English
guests should be too much out of their
element.

In the way? But you do me honour!'
he exclaimed ; and Eustace willingly reseated
himself

It was a pleasant variety in his life.
His curiosity had been aroused about

Ursel. He was interested in the man's
strange face, he was fascinated by his
extraordinary genius ; while anything to
occupy his mind, and turn the current
of his jaded thoughts, was grateful to
him.

A buxom Italian peasant woman brought
out coffee and large circular cakes of
ciamheUa. Ursel drew a pipe from his
pocket.

Is it permitted?' he asked courteously.

Eustace lighted a cigar himself.

Alice nodded her permission.

Signora Ursel spoke to her very confidingly.


Michel cannot live without smoke,'
she said. ^ He smokes morning, noon,
and night. He does all his work smoking,
and only puts down his pipe when it is
necessary to play or to eat.'

You are Italian, signora,' said Alice ;
but surely your husband is not ?'

Italian ? No. Michel is nothing —
nothing at all,' she answered, throwing
out her hands. ' His father was a
German, Austrian — the less we say
about that in this country the better,
you understand — his mother was French,
a Normande by birth. He was born in
Milan ; he was educated at Leipsic ; and
.now, see, he is married in Tuscany.'

So I suppose all these nations in turn
desire to claim his genius V

Signora Ursel looked as if she did not
understand.

You have heard him play V she asked.
He has talent, has he not V

Talent ? He has the finest genius !'

(nae, che ! you are too good,' with a
little deprecating shrug.

It dawned upon Alice that the young
wife had not the remotest idea of the
marvellous powers of her husband, and
she felt a little out of patience with her.

You have such beautiful stuffs in
England,' said Assunta Ursel, laying her
little brown hand on Alice's gown. ' I
have seen English stuffs. One cannot

o

procure them here ; but who knows ?
perhaps I also may travel some day.'

Monsieur Ursel will certainly find
his way there before long,' said Alice.

Sir Eustace caught the words, and
turned to his host.

^ You will visit us in our country some
day ?'

It is possible,' he answered, in the very
quiet measured voice in which he generally
spoke. ' I cannot tell. My immediate
future is not in my own hands.'

There is much fame to be won in
England.'

Is that so desirable ?' said Ursel. ^ I
don't know. I am a quiet man, and the
world is noisy.'

Ah ! it is the penalty of fame that is
so distasteful to you. I saw it in your
face the other niofht.'

He puffed out a cloud of smoke. ,

Foolish boys !' he said, smiling. ^ It
is an amusement to them, but bah ! it is
a very great bore to me. Heaven has
made me what I am. I mean very quiet
see, more than unusually quiet.'

Then it is strange to see you thus
the centre of public acclamation.'

^ That is my misfortune.'

Eustace could not help suspecting a
little affectation ; but looking up at the
serene face beside him, which yet in its

mobile features had so strange a possibility
of sensitiveness, he changed his
opinion.

Fame,' he said slowly, ' surely fame is
sweet ! the consciousness that such a gift
as yours is unique, is appreciated, applauded,
envied by all.'

^ In a short time,' said Ursel, * you
shall judge for yourself what are the
sweets of fame. Believe me, I am more
rewarded by involuntary tears or laughter
than by frantic plaudits — that you can
doubtless understand. Sympathy is more
precious than applause, and one wants
sympathy ; for to produce good music one
must play on the heart-strings, and that
causes pain. Do you understand ? Sometimes
very great pain.'

^ But there are other results of fame ;
the pride of success, the distinction of excelling

others, the achievement of fortune.
Are these nothing to you V

^ I cannot judge yet,' answered Ursel.
^ My success is quite never, it is but a few
months since I first appeared in public ;
applause is new to me — perhaps that is
why I shrink from it. As to fortune, I
am leased to an imj^resario for five years.
His bargain is better than mine. It will
be time enough to think of fortune afterwards.
Do you see V

^ Leased ? but surely that is very unfortunate.'


So say my new friends, but one must
make a beginning. Forgive me, I weary
you with my own concerns.'

Your indifference to that which most
men hold the dearest, interests and
astonishes me.'

'Perhaps I do not yet know myself,'

said Ursel gently. ^ What you call fame
has come on me thus : I have been
accustomed always to much appreciation
from little audiences ; great ones do not
seem to me so different. But if it is true
that a man does not know himself till
he has succeeded, it must be far more
true that a man does not know himself
until he has failed.'

As he was speaking, the landlady
appeared again, ushering in two tall black-moustaches
men, who greeted Ursel
with affection, and eyed his guests with
some astonishment.

Alice Bellingham thought that it was
time to 2fo, but the evening* was charming
; there was an unwonted look of
animation and interest in her brother's
face which made her unwilling to move.

Another guest came in presently, a

hectic-looking German ; then one more, a
priest, whom Assunta greeted as ' Signor
Prioress and treated with evident reverence
and ceremony.

They drank coffee and smoked with
a little constraint ; presently Ursel leant
forward and spoke to Alice.

^ Listen, signora,' he said. ' We have
sometimes at this hom a little music — for
ourselves only, you understand. If it
will not inconvenience you, it is really a
practice ; if we make mistakes, we repeat.
It will not annoy you ? Our Signor
Prioree is more than indulgent ;' and he
smiled towards the priest.

Assunta rose and opened a door into
the house ; there was a large scantily
furnished room, in the centre of which
stood a grand-piano, covered with music.

Come, Giacinto, to the piano,' she

exclaimed, addressing one of the men.
And remember, Michel must have plenty
of time for the " cadenza." You are too
impatient,' and she tapped his shoulder.

We will still sit outside,' she said to
Alice. ' No ? why not ?'

Because I like to watch the musicians.'

Watch them ? What an idea ! And
Michel is so ugly. I would rather hear
the beauty and not see the ugliness ; but
as sou will.'

Giacinto preluded brilliantly on the
piano. Ursel tuned his violin, then gave
a little nod, and they began.

Bah, what an ugly piece 1' exclaimed
the German as they ended, and Giacinto
took up the theme. ' Ugly ! it is a
horror, an extravagance ; no air, no soul —
nothing but chromatics. Choose something
to revive us, per pietcL

VOL. II. 23

It is excellent for the third finger
said Ursel quietly. ^ But to keep you
quiet, see !'

They began to play again from Beethoven.
Eustace sat with his head leaning
against the wall, listening with enchantment.
The music was beautiful, the
execution perfect. The sun had quite
gone down, gray twilight filled the room ;
a cold air besfan to stir the white curtains.
Ursel shivered, and signed to Assunta,
who closed the window.

Bravo, bravo, Ursel !' they said when
he stopped.

He sat down and passed his hand
through his hair, making it stand up even
more than before. There was a strained
look on his face. With his bow he
continued to touch one string again and
again. The tune to him was not perfect.

^ There are some things that are horrible
in this Hfe/ he said with a little
shiver. ' The man who wrote that divine
music became stone-deaf. That is discord
; discord is intolerable.'

Poor fellow, yes !' said Giacinto.
Beethoven was afflicted by Heaven.'

He continued to touch a few chords
softly.

That string is faulty,' said the Prioree,
smiling. ' Tune it, Michel Ursel; tune it.'

^ Am I not tuning it V he answered,
still making the note vibrate and twang.

^ So Grot tunes His instruments.'

But why should discord exist ?' said
Ursel. ^ What should cause it ?'

^ Too deep a question, my friend,' said
Giacinto, playing a little cadence very
softly, always going back to the key-note
for Ursel's benefit.

23—2

It is horrible, it is terrible went on
Ursel. * That man's powers were capable
of the highest degree of enjoyment, and
those powers were useless to him.'

^ Come, come, Ursel ! enough of Beethoven
; he is in peace.'

And harmony,' said the Prioree softly.

Ursel started slightly, then rose to his
feet.

Art thou worked up enough ? — inspired,
eh ? Come, improvise.'

Give me a theme,' he said, still
touching the refractory string.

Our country in peril, war, defeat,
anxiety, triumph,' said Giacinto.

Music,' said the German. ' Its
struggles with prejudice, its mortifications,
its successes.'

No, no !' cried Assunta. ' Love, love,
caro mio ! Love divided, love lost, eh ?'

Ursel ran up the scale ; the tune was
perfect now.

^ Let each interpret according to his own
ideas,' he said dreamily. ^ What is music
but the interpretation, not of thought, but
of feeling too subtle for mere thought V

He began to play.

Now came out the marvellous genius
of the man, the wild, merry fun and
fancy, when the violin seemed to laugh
aloud at its own wild pranks ; then strange
discords and sounds bringing up vague
doubts and discomforts, irritations, and
troubles of crooked fate and j^^i'^^^^'se
circumstance ; now heavenly melody filling
the mind with the perfection of sound
and beauty, glorious images, a rounding
of perfect harmonies of touch and finish.
Alas 1 lasting too short a time, for through
its exquisite perfection burst suddenly a

wail of minor chords, a new departure,
pain coming into Eden, sorrow and sin
and death flooding over the world.

It was growing quite dark. Spellbound
under that wonderful music, they
all sat, afraid to move. Down the rough
cheek of Giacinto stole a tear. Alice
had clasped her brother's hand ; the
Availing of the nmsic called forth an irresistible
yearning for human sympathy in
its sounds. All that had ever passed in
their lives of anguish seemed to live
again, to pant and struggle and cry.
Alice held his hand tightly to control her
overpowering emotion.

It was over, and the master laid down
his violin.

Bah, Michel !' cried his little wife.
Why do you do it ? No indigestion
ever gave one a worse nightmare.'

The others could not speak.

See, signior,' said Ursel, with rather a
painful smile, ' I have, at all events, succeeded
in making each one put his own
interpretation on my music. That some
should be less poetical than others is
perhaps desirable for the happiness of
humanity. Is it not so V

Eustace and Alice rose to go.

We have indeed been fortunate,' said
the former.

He wanted to say something better,
something that would convey to Ursel a
little of the almost passionate admiration
he felt for his genius ; but the words would
not come.

Perhaps Ursel perceived it in his
looks, for as he shook hands he said
gently :

There are things better than applause,

as I told you, signore. Shall we meet
again ?'

I hope so, indeed. May we return V
I shall be much honoured. Any
Thursday you will find us ; we have
always this little meeting. Au revoir

He stood bareheaded to see them go.
Ursel turned back into the house ; his
guests lingered a moment to satisfy their
curiosity respecting the appearance in
their midst of the English strangers ; then
they also departed, the sound of Giacinto's
deep bass voice trolling out some popular
song dying away in the distance.

;HE clays passed away swiftly at
Santa Clara, and not unpleasantly
Sir Eustace, when the
fact of his sister's engagement became
quite established, laid himself out to be
pleasant to his future brother-in-law. He
found it uphill work at first, they had so
little in cannon ; but there was something
so simple, so earnest, and genuinely good
about the character of Joseph Mulroy
that he could not fail to perceive it at
last, and the feeling which began with

enforced toleration ripened into something
little short of affection.

Meanwhile the quite for Ursel's new
violin proceeded slowly, and was still
very far from producing the necessary
sum.

One morning Madame di St. Isidoro
rushed into Lady Bellingham's rooms
looking so disturbed that all who were
there started up in amazement.

Alas I alas !' she exclaimed. ' Poor
Ursel — it is too late !'

What is it ? What has happened ?'
they exclaimed.

Happened ! such a disappointment. I
do not know hoar I am to tell the Prioree.
That man Vanni has got tired of waiting,
and he has found a customer and sold
Ursel's Straduarius.'

I am indeed sorry !' exclaimed Sir

Eustace. * It was such a chance to have
lost. It is a bore 1'

At that moment he chanced to catch
sight of Mr. Muh'oy's face ; the rest of the
party had gathered round Marie di St.
Isidoro.

Joseph Mulroy retreated towards the
window to hide the brilliant bhish
which tinged his very ears with scarlet.
Eustace detected it, and would have
asked some question, but he was deterred
by an imploring gesture.

It is a thousand pities,' he repeated.

^ After all,' said Georgie comfortably,
^ the prospect of making up the necessary
sum was so remote, that perhaps it is just
as well to have your chateaux en Espag^ie
destroyed at once.'

I dare say,' said Marie rather dolefully
; ' but with all one's philosophy it is

a great disappointment, and will be so
still more to my son. Well, well, ^)a2'^-
cmza /' and she smiled through something
not very unlike a mist of tears.

Alice went up to her, and put her arm
round her caressingly.

^ Never mind,' she said ; ^ patience would
not be worth the name if it could not
live upon hope. In time, perhaps, we shall
be able to manage it. Now, dear Marie,
I want very much to make you acquainted
with the Brown-clifford. They have
been here now quite a month, so long that
it seems quite strange that you should
not know them. I think that you
and Kitty will like each other very
much.'

Shall we ? Yes ; I think I shall, from
all you have told me. Yes, dear, we will
dismiss less agreeable thoughts from our

minds, and forget them. How shall I
make acquaintance with these friends of
yours V

We are expecting them this very
moment. A propos there is the
bell.'

And I am not fit to be seen !' exclaimed
Madame di St. Isidoro. ' It is
only to quite intimate friends one appears
thus, without a bonnet or any of the
apparatus of beauty.'

You want nothing,' said Alice affectionately.
' We English are most stupid
at paying compliments, as you know ; but
still, I must say you cannot look otherwise
than lovely.'

Little flatterer !' said her friend.
^ Hush, hush ! Don't you know that
flatterers are the worst enemies of their
dearest friends ? they injure their souls.

and take away all the merit of their little
good actions. I am sure you would not
wish to do that to me.'

I will run the risk,' said Alice,
smiling.

Eustace followed Mr. Mulroy into the
next room.

^ You should manage your blushes
better,' he said, laying his hand on his
shoulder. ' So you are the culprit who
has bought the coveted Straduarius. I
fancied you already possessed one.'

^ Oh yes, but I could not part with
that !' exclaimed Joseph Mulroy. ' My
poor mother gave it to me.'

'Then it was not for yourself you
bought it ?'

For myself? Could you really think
so ? Come, come, Bellingham ! be a good
fellow, and don't betray me. I — I should

never hear the last of it. If that poor
fellow had waited till the subscription
was made up, he might have waited forever,
you see.'

^ I see,' said Eustace. ' But why the
secrecy ? Surely it is futile. Ursel himself
will betray you.'

No. Ursel will receive it anonymously.
I have provided against betrayal. You
will be silent, won't you ?'

If you really wish it.'

You don't know, you cannot realize
how much I wish it.'

He looked so genuinely anxious and
disturbed that Eustace was amused.

^ I won't betray you, Joe,' he said.
It is very jolly of you. Poor Ursel ! I
am delighted that he is to have it after
all.'

Ursel is a shroud fellow ; it will come

best this way for him also. Hark !
visitors have arrived I'

Yes. I heard the Browii-CHfFord
purr. I must be off. What are you
going to do ?'

I don't know ; anything you hke/

There never is anything to do here,'
said Eustace, with a long yawn. ' 1
think I shall soon cut it, and go back to
England.'

Ought you not to go in and see your
mother's visitors ?' said Joseph Mulroy,
who, without being told in so many words,
understood the wishes of the family.

^ Not for the world,' was the answer,
with more alacrity ' Mrs. Brown-Clifford
and her perpetual precautions are t(^o
much for my delicate constitution.'

I like the young lady very much
indeed,' Joseph went on hesitatingly.

'Who Kitty? Yes; a good little
soul ! I dare say she will be just like her
mother some day.'

She is very pretty and very nice.'

Come with me, and leave the ladies
to themselves ; they will never miss us.
We can get out through the kitchen if
you don't mind. I wonder what possessed
Italians when they built their
houses with no passages, and endless
rooms all opening into each other.'

He led the way through the kitchens
and down a back staircase without detection.


The introduction between Madame di
St. Isidoro and the Brown-clifford was
accomplished. Marie was fond of English
people, and always pleased to know them.
Mrs. Brown Clifford was always happy if
she had a comfortable armchair.

VOL. II. 24

I hope you like our quiet little town
said Marie, in her pretty broken English.
'There is not much attraction for foreigners,
I am afraid — that is to say, what there is
to see is very soon seen — yet your friends
are good enough to say that they are very
happy here.'

I do not care for sight-seeing,' said
the good lady, ' though I dare say it is
very nice for those; who like it. I can't
say I care for picture-galleries. The
churches my daughter insists upon
showing me are deadly cold and pitch
dark. I like a cheerful church myself

Have you seen St. Onofrio V

Yes, and caught a bad cold there. It
ought to be thoroughly warmed with hot-water
pipes, and that cold marble floor
boarded to make it safe.'

I am afraid we Italians are in all

respects behind you in the way of comforts.'


Every nation has its own idea of comfort,
after all,' said Kitty, speaking very
gently. ^ Our tightly-shuttered, carpeted
rooms would never do in this beautiful
climate.'

Madame di St. Isidoro looked at Kitty
with some interest. She had not improved
of late, or else it was that the colour of
her gown (carefully chosen dust-colour for
the convenience of travelling) was not
becoming to her. She looked very white
and shadowy, the sweet little face far too
colourless. Her mother's e3''e falling upon
her, she gave an odd little gesture of discontent.
Kitty knew that movement only
too well, and the thought it conveyed to
her mind. Mrs. Brown Clifford herself
had had apple-cheeks and china-blue eyes ;

24-2

it was indeed most hard upon her that
she should have so shadowy a Httle
daughter.

Kitty exclaimed Alice Bellingham,
^ I want you so much to hear Ursel.
Have sou any engagement for to-night ?
We are soin' to the theatre, to a concert
there

May I go, mamma V said Kitty
eagerly.

Are you going yourself, Lady Bellingham
V said Mrs. Brown-Clifford ; ' and
are any strangers going with you V

One or two friends are going with us,'
answered Lady Bellingham, trying affably
to suppress a sound of haughtiness in her
tones. * You shall see their names, Mrs.
Clifford, unless you can trust me not to
introduce anyone to your daughter but
people known to my own girls.'

Mamma said Kitty, blushing crimson,
do let me go. I should so like to hear
Ursel.'

^ Very well. Of course, Lady Bellingham
understands me when I say that
when one is abroad one must take precautions.'


Madame di St. Isidoro turned away to
conceal a smile. Alice and Georgie had
prepared her for this, so she was not surprised
; only very sorry for poor Kitty,
whose colour was coming and going in a
painful way.

^ Kitty does not look well,' said Lady
Bellingham, putting her hand on the girl's
shoulder. ' What is the matter, my dear
child V

I don't think she is well,' answered
her mother, speaking for her. ' The
foreign messes at dinner don't agree with

nie, and I dare say they don't suit her
either.'

She has grown quite thin,' went on
Lady Bellingham. ^ What is it, Kitty V

I am quite well,' answered Kitty
earnestly. ^ It is nothing. I am not
used to towns, and the noise keeps me
awake at night, that is all. I shall soon
be quite used to it.'

Lady Bellingham looked commiserating.
Alice drew away Kitty from the general
attention that so embarrassed her, and
began to talk to her about other things.
She was arrested in the midst of their
conversation by hearing Madame di St.
Isidoro say to her mother :

By-the-bye, you are acquainted with
the Austenss, are you not ? I think I
have heard you speak of them.'

Which Austenss ? Yes, I know Lord

Austenss and the Raljih Austenss. To
which do you allude V

To a Mr. Austen with a most beautiful
daughter. I used to know them once

o

at Florence ; they were there one winter
when the poor mother was alive. I knew
her very well. My Prioree also knew
her ; he was with her when she died. I
remember thinking the daughter should
not have left her when she was so ill.'

Poor Marion !' exclaimed Alice. ' She
could not help it ; she would have died
for her mother, but she was never allowed
a chance of helping her. So the Prioree
knew her mother ? Did he like her ?
None of us ever saw her.'

^ He was deeply interested in her, and
very sorry for her,' said Madame di St.
Isidoro. ^ She seems to have been very
reserved, sjDcaking little and timidly —

passionately devoted to her husband.
Her death was very sad.'

I never met anyone who did not know
the Austen said Georgie. ' They seem
to have met everybody in their incessant
wanderings.'

I suppose he lives still — the father, I
mean ? We took a great dislike to him, and
from the fact of the daughter going off to
England like that when her mother was
so ill, we gathered that she resembled her
selfish father.'

There never were two people more
utterly unlike !' exclaimed Alice eagerly.
Marion is the noblest, most unselfish,
perfect character I ever came across, or
could even imagine.'

'You steak enthusiastically,' said Marie,
smiling. ' She must be very perfect if
she is as good as she is beautiful. I was

astonished to hear that she was still unmarried.'


The quick tears rose to Alice's eyes.
Lady Bellingham spoke rapidly :

Our English girls do not marry so
young as yours do, Marie. I hope
Marion will make a happy marriage soon ;
in fact, I have every hope that it will
be so.'

She spoke emphatically. Madame di
St. Isidoro saw Alice's changing colour,
and perceived electricity in the air. She
spoke gently :

I hope she will, poor child ! It must
be a dreadful fate to live with that selfish
father ; and yet I ought not to say so :
such a life would be so glorious a discipline
for the soul.'

Her mother was disciplined quite out
of the world,' said Lady Bellingham, with

i\ quick sigh. * One could not bear the
thought of such a fate for May

Ace looked gratefully at her mother.
Kitty had been listening eagerly to every
word.

'■ Is it true that she will be married
soon V she asked suddenly, drawing Alice
aside. ' Tell me, is it to your brother V

No, no ; I wish it were. How I wish
it were!' said Alice. 'It was only mamma's
way of speaking.'

Lady Bellingham did not seem able to
leave Kitty alone. She came up to her
presently, and began playing with her hair.

I wish you would wear your hair like
other girls, Kitty,' she said. ' I don't
think that straight smooth parting is
becoming to your little fair face.'

Handsome is as handsome does,' said
Mrs. Brown-clifford in her monotonous

voice. * Kitty could never be a handsome
girl, so she must be content to look
like a good one.'

I don't think a few of those soft little
curls let loose on her forehead would take
away that said Lady Bellingham.

They would look as if she wished to
attract attention.'

On the contrary, her smooth head is
much more remarkable,' said Lady Bellingham.
' And it makes her look less
well, poor child !'

Your kindness will put all sorts of
fancies into her head,' said Mrs. Brown-clifford.
* If we go abroad we must
make the best of it, and accustom ourselves
to endure without complaint the
indigestion produced by the unwholesome
and unnatural cookery. Kitty was never
ill in her life : though she has not much

to boast of in the way of looks, ]her constitution
is robust

Are you quite comfortable in your
hotel ?' said Madame di St. Isidoro. She
fancied that this personal conversation
must be painful to the object of it ; but
Kitty was too meek and too much accustomed
to it to mind very much.

Yes answered Mrs. Brown-Clifford ;
the hotel is not bad. I hope you will
come and see me, if it is not too much
trouble. I am very seldom out.'

What a wonderful person !' said Marie,
when the Brown-clifford were gone. ' I
never met anyone like her before.'

I should not have thought the type
an uncommon one,' said Lady Bellingham,
who had no discernment of character.
She seems to be without much individuality.'


She sees further than you think,
naming,' said Georgie. ' Her china-blue
eyes are taking everything and everyone
in on every side.'

Her daughter has a look of her,' said
Madame di St. Isidoro.

Yes ; she is a little like her,' said
Alice. ' Eustace says that when she is
old she will be exactly like her.'

^ Eustace talks great nonsense if he
does say so,' said Lady Bellingham.
^ Kitty is not a bit like her mother, and
never could be. What nonsense ! She
would be very pretty indeed, if we could
but get her properly dressed.'

I am not sure that I do not like the
smooth, soft hair and little nun-like
costume,' said Marie. ' I see now who it
was that Paolo meant, when he told me
the other day that he had met in the

corridor a child with a white, pure face,
like one of Lucca della Robbia's angels ;
it must have been Miss Brown-Clifford.
I must go now ; it must be twelve o'clock.
He will be coming in for breakfast ; and I
have to break to him the sad news that
Ursel's violin is sold.'

I think it must have been Don Paolo
who was at Ursel's house when Eustace
and I were there,' said Alice.

^ Very likely ; he is fond of going
there.'

I wish I knew him,' said Lady
Bellingham. ' Does he never go into
society V

Never ; he has no time. He is very
hard worked ; carrying on, besides other
work, an enormous correspondence.'

Then he would not come and see me V
Indeed, I wish he could ; but I cannot

press upon him things which are of no
more importance than to give or accept
please. He is over-worked.'

T hope some happy chance may make
us acquainted,' said Lady Bellingham
graciously, as Madame di St. Isidoro rose
to depart.

AHce could not imagine why her mother
so continually commented upon Kitty's
delicate looks ; she even continued the
subject when Eustace came in to tea, asking
him whether he had not seen her, and
whether he did not think that she looked
both ill and out of spirits.

He was bored, and answered that he
had not thought about either her or her
looks in any respect ; and Lady Bellingham
gave an aggressive sigh, which made
Alice flush scarlet.

!HE next morning Kitty Brown -
Clifford came into the Bellingham'
apartment early, and
went to Alice's sitting-room. Alice was
not there, and as she had an engagement
to do some shopping with her, she sat
down to wait.

The English newspaper lay on the
table ; Kitty took it up and began to
read, to pass away the time. Alice was a
long time coming. Kitty was tired, after
the concert the night before, and still

more from the effect of the sleepless
nights of which she had complained ; she
let the jDaper fall and lent back in lier
chair, with her hands tightly clasped,
falling into a reverie.

Her reverie was not a very happy one ;
she was feeling saddened and oppressed by
the self-consciousness her mother's treatment
of her had fostered. She was very
fond of her new friends, but she could not
feel natural and at ease with them ; she felt
gauche and awkward. At Castleford she
had got over much of this feeling ; but it
had come back at Santa Chiara, where
the two men, Eustace and Joseph Mulroy,
were constantly present when she was
with her friends. The former Sent much
of his time with Alice ; he missed the
busy home life to which he had been
accustomed, and was glad to accompany
VOL. II. * 25

her, walking or driving, going to picture
galleries, or other sights, as each offered,
in order to while away some of the hours
that hung so heavily on his hands.

The result of Mrs. Brown-clifford's
foolish training was such that Kitty was
overpowered by shyness when in the
society of men, in spite of all her strongest
resolutions and self-condemnation.

Her life had been a very secluded one,
and she had always been the central
object of thought of her home ; so completely
had this been the case that Kitty
was often disposed to be wearied to death
of her own individuality. Her dress, her
attitudes, her manners, even the expression
of her face, all were constant sources
of comment and marks for observation.
This produced an extreme sense of self-distrust
; nothing but her innate gentleness

saved her from awkwardness. Her whole
young life was subdued and depressed, and
even the gentle, trustful religion in which
she had found her refuge at times seemed
inclined to become morbid in tone.

Mr. St. Aubyn's advice that she should
be allowed freedom of intercourse with the
Bellingham girls was the wisest that could
be given, but even this had failed of late.
Georgina's whole time and thoughts were
bent upon preparations for her marriage ;
the commonplace, rather hard way in
which she spoke of it gave Kitty some
pain and a good deal of astonished She
had not experience enough to recognise
that it was to a certain degree an assumed
manner, not quite natural to Georgie, but
the outcome of a kind of shyness and
a good deal of self dissatisfaction.

Concealed in Kitty's heart was a great

25—2

well of romance, an intuition of great and
lovely things — the spirit which some call
romantic, half mockingly, but which often
is but one of God's highest gifts, a lofty
imagination, a reflection of things above
in the troubled waters of life.

Alice also was no longer the lighthearted,
merry companion she used to be.
Alice had been going through much
during the past year. Her sorrow for
Eustace and Marion was extreme, but
worst of all was the awakening: to the
consciousness of the worldliness of her
mother and sister ; it seemed to her young
and rather home disposition to be peculiarly
unnatural and distasteful, and it saddened
her oTcatlv. Eustace was not
improved by his sorrow ; to her overanxious
mind it seemed very much the
contrary. She fancied that he deteriorated.

He had grown bitter and harsh in his
judgments ; there were moments in which
she was miserable about him. Alice had
found a friend in Madame di St. Isidoro,
and though as yet she had not spoken to
her of her own family troubles, she had
formed a very firm and loving friendship
with her, which at any moment circumstances
might ripen into confidence.

So it was that Kitty found herself less
near to her friends at Santa Chiara than
she had been at home. Mrs. Brown-clifford
saw it, and in her own mind ascribed
it to her daughter's want of attraction ;
without actually putting it into words,
she implied it so often that Kitty became
convinced of it, and grew shy even with
Alice.

She leant back in her chair, and thought
sadly over this disappointment. The time

passed, and Alice did not come. After
waiting a considerable time, at last a footsteps
came across the rooms ; the door
opened abruptly, and Sir Eustace came in.

Kitty jumped to her feet ; her colour
came and went ; she looked so startled
that he could not help smiling as he came
forward to shake hands and apologize.

Do my sisters know that you are here,
Miss Clifford ? I hope you have not
been waiting very long.'

I don't know. Alice asked me to
come and walk with her. I dare say she
will be here soon. Indeed, I do not mind
waiting in the least. I have the paper ;'
and she quickly picked it up from the
ground.

I will let Alice know,' said Sir
Eustace ; and he was turning to leave the
room when he caught sight of a packet

of letters on the writing-table — the English
letters had just come in — and he
went hastily to look at them.

Kitty had taken up the paper and was
looking at it, when suddenly a sharp
exclamation (almost a little cry) burst
from her lips. Eustace turned round
hastily, and saw her face as white as a
sheet, and her lips quivering.

What is the matter ? What have
you seen V he exclaimed hastily, striding
towards her.

Kitty put both her hands over the
paragraph.

It is nothing, nothing I' she exclaimed,
the bright colour rushing back into her
cheeks. ' I beg, I entreat that you will
not look. It is nothing ; how could I be
so foolish !'

^ I beg your pardon,' he said, almost

smiling at her evident terror. ' But
surely the jmper is public property ; you
must let me look ;' and he took it out of
her hands.

Kitty rose to her feet in an agony of
shame and confusion. She turned her
back to him, and went away to the
window. If only the earth would have
opened and swallowed up her and her
discomfort, she would have been so
thankful.

Eustace looked at the reaper crumpled
by her little trembling hands, and in a
small paragraph by itself this advertisement
met his eye :

071 the 12th rest., at St. Peters Church,
Eaton Square, Lord Austen to Marion,
oily daughter of Ralph Austen, Esq'

Kitty stood at the window breathless
and trembling, wondering what would

happen next, listening with painful tension
to the lightest sound, dreading, yet
expecting, some demonstration of the
intense suffering the blow must have
caused him.

Nothing, only a sort of silence that
could be felt. It could not have lasted
more than one minute, but it seemed
interminable. Then she could bear it no
longer. She turned from the window
and came forward.

Sir Eustace stood with the paper in
his hand ; he gave a slight start, and
cleared his throat. Kitty's eyes were
full oF dumb sympathy. She looked up
at him, longing to hold out her hand, to
say something to comfort him, but he
never even j^ei'ceived it. He cleared his
throat again, for his voice was husky.

I will tell Alice that you are waiting,

Miss Clifford, ' he said. ' It is too bad of
her ;' and then he left the room, carrying
the paper with him, and Kitty sank
down on a chair, and covered her burning
face with her hands.

What must he have thought of her ?
This obtruded sympathy must have seemed
almost an impertinence. She had felt it
herself so acutely, that it was hardly
possible for her to realize that he had
scarcely perceived her existence ; that
every minor detail of life was swallowed
up and obliterated by the news which
swept away at a blow the whole hope of
his life.

He did not send Alice ; he never even
went to look for her. His words had been
purely mechanical. He went out of doors,
as far away from home as he could go.

Kitty sat on, not daring to move ; and

when Alice came in half an hour later, she
quite started at the sight of her little
white face.

My dearest Kitty, you here ? What
is the matter — what is it ? Has anything
happened ?'

Oh, Alice !' exclaimed Kitty, ' have
you seen him ? Is he dreadfully unhappy
V

Who ? What ? I don't understands
said Alice.

Kitty told her of what she had seen in
the paper. She had hardly heard it
before she ran out of the room in search
of her brother ; he was far away by that
time, and she came back to her own room
to Kitty in great trouble of mind.

Tell me what happened, Kitty,' she
exclaimed. ' Was it in here that he saw
it?'

Yes said Kitty, reserving to herself
her own share in the disclosure, the involuntary
exclamation of which she was
so terribly ashamed. ' He saw it in the
paper.'

What did he say V

He said nothing ; he only turned and
left the room. But his face looked terrible,
Alice.'

In what way ? do tell me,' she said
almost impatiently.

Blank, stern, as if all the youth and
life and hope had gone out of it,' said
Kitty, with a sob she could not suppress.
'I have seen him look like that once before.'

Yes ; I know — that day,' said Alice.
How I wish I knew whether it is true !
I can never believe that May would be so
faithless.'

She gave him up,' said Kitty almost

indignantly. ' And if she could do that,
one does not wonder that she should do
the other

It is a very different thing,' cried
Alice. ^ One was heroic, the other would
be cowardice.'

^ Still, she gave him up,' said Kitty, with
a sort of firmness which provoked Alice.

We cannot argue about May,' she said
suddenly. ^ I don't think you can understand
her — she is like nobody else in the
world.'

^ She outfit not to have made him so
very miserable,' said Kitty.

She was over-excited, or she would not
have spoken like that. Alice did not like
it. It gave her a feeling that an outsider
was touching upon family secrets. She
grew cold.]

We will not discuss Marion,' said

Alice. ' And, in fact, I think it will be
better for us to put the whole question
aside; it will not bear discussion;' and she
turned away her head, trying to hide the
tears that would force their ways Kitty
saw it, and put her arm round her neck.

Dear Alice !' she whispered, as she
kissed her. But her caress was like the
touch on a too sensitive wound. Alice
could not bear it. She returned it hastily,
and drew away.

I have never apologized for keeping
you waiting so long, Kitty,' she said.
To tell the truth, I fancied it was tomorrow
that we were to shop together,
not to-day. I am so sorry.'

^ Oh, it does not matter in the least,'
said Kitty, her timidity returning in full
force. ' I — I don't mind waiting. Perhaps
you had rather not go out to-day.'

No. Let us go,' said Alice. ' I
would much rather do so. Georo-ie and

o

Mr. Mulroy are gone out already. Come,
Kitty.'

Kitty rose, and put on her gloves and
hat.

I wish you could be persuaded to buy
a prettier hat,' said Alice, almost sharply.
That is not becoming, is it ?'

We will see what we can find,' said
Kitty timidly. * But I must ask mamma.
I have no money, you know.'

No money ? Don't you buy your own
clothes ?'

Oh no. Mamma gives me what I want,
but never any money. She says she must
take precautions.'

Alice laughed. She could not help it.
There was a sound in Kitty's voice so like
her mother's.

^ Let us start, Kitty,' she said.

Kitty, when she returned home after
their walk, was very unhappy. She felt
as if no one understood her. She was
very lonely. She longed to give sympathy,
but her sympathy had been rejected. In
that close family circle there was no room
for outsiders. She felt as if she had
intruded on them, and she longed with a
great unsatisfied longing for some one
kind loving heart on which she might
rest her head, and pour out her thoughts
without fear of misconception, and with
the right to sympathy which only love
can give.

eustace BELLINGHAM, at

the end of his long ramble in
search of comfort, or rather discourages
at length found himself on the
Roman road, and outside Ursel's house.
The sound of music arrested his steps.

He stood still and listened. Ursel
must be practising — he was running up
and down delicate little chromatic scales.
The sound was new to Eustace. He
wondered wdiat made the tone of the
instrument so peculiarly sweet, when
VOL. II. 2G

the thought flashed across him — it must
be the new violin ; Ursel must be trying
it. He was producing exquisite tones, a
power and sweetness combined that must
be ecstasy to him.

Eustace saw that the door of the house
was open, and he went in. The music
attracted him on, and he entered the
salon in which the piano stood.

Ursel was standing before the music-stand,
on his face an expression of vivid
brilliant enjoyment. He looked up and
caught sight of Eustace, and gave him a
friendly little nod. He had become a
frequent guest of late.

Sit down,' he said. ^ You shall hear
her speak — my beauty, my glorious violin I
Sit down.'

Eustace sat down ; he fell into the
ways of the maestro, who never left off

touching his instrument, only looked at
him over it with kind radiant eyes — eyes
that read him through and through.

The music beofan.

Let each interpret according to his
own ideas,' Ursel lead said the day before ;
but to-day he had a story to tell his
hearer, something to comfort him, something
to help him over the dark hour of
life into which he had entered — and the
violin told it well.

It was exquisite music, a marvellous
lower of execution ; so marvellous that it
rippled over the strings with no more
apparent effort than the mechanism in the
throat of a thrush. Through all a minor
melody ; now taken up by the grand deep
tones of the lower chords, now appearing
and disappearing through a thousand intricacies
; simple, because of its one intend



tion, in spite of its endless complications.
Ursel thought of sorrow interwoven in
the chords of life, and sustained his conception
throughout.

Before it was over, Eustace had hidden
his face on his arms on the table, and sat
there without moving.

And now, what is it, my friend V said
Ursel, laying down the violin and puttini^f
his hand on his shoulder. ' Trouble —
trouble as usual ? That melody always
runs through life.*

You called it discord the other day,'
said Eustace, raising his face with a
painful smile.

I was wrong,' said Ursel. ^ It cannot
be discord, or life would be intolerable.
I doubt the capability of human nature to
exist in a condition of discord — it is too
antagonistic to endurance ; and trouble is

our normal condition ; therefore we would
heather can out the idea I have tried to
convey to you — the melody in a minor
keys asserting" itself through complicated
harmonies. The discord theory would end
in the worst discord of all — insanity.'

Yes,' said Eustace, passing his handover
his brow wearily. ' One is forced
back into tune by the hand of old Time.'

^ Or, as Don Paolo said, God is the
Tuner,' said Ursel reverently. ^ How
hot and sultry it is to-day ! are you not
tired ?'

^ I have not been conscious of fatigue
till now. Ursel, how selfish I am ! I see
you have a new violin. What is the
history of it ?'

Ah, my beauty — my precious treasure
!' cried Ursel. ' If, indeed, she is
really mine. If you could throw any

light on the mystery, I would indeed
thank you !'

What mystery V

It arrived last night lying in its
beautiful case, thus. See !' And with
childlike eagerness Ursel rapidly brought
together the violin-case and the paper in
which it was Wrapped. ' Some one must
have loved it well, and given it a fitting
case,' said Ursel.

The case was ebony, inlaid with ivory ;
it had been refined with care, and fitted
with a Branch lock.

See, this came with it !' went on
Ursel, handing t'o Sir Eustace a note
Vv which had been, attached to it.

He opened it, and read :

This violin is sent to M. Michel Ursula
a gift by one who admires his genius

very greatly, and offers it as a slight
tribute to one who will know how to
make use of it worthily.'

The note was in Italian, but some
slight grammatical error betrayed that it
was written by a foreigner.

It was not you who sent it to me ?'
said Ursel, looking up suddenly.

No. I only wish that it had been in
my power to do so,' said Eustace. ' It
would have been a very great pleasure
to me.'

You are very good.'

The benefit would have been less to
you than to the whole world 1'

Ursel bowed and repeated :

You are too good.'

Have you told your friend the Prioree
of St. Onofrio ? He will be very glad.'

Do you also know him V said Ursel.
The only time you met here at this
house you did not speak. I concluded
that you were strangers.'

I do not know him personally, but
we laye heard much of him, of course.'

Ah ! I understand. I wish you knew
him. He is a good man — a saint ; and
what also attracts me, he is fanatics for
music'

^ * I could see that when he was listening
to you. They say his preaching is
wonderful.'

Yes ; he plays on the gamut of human
feeling's with dexterous fingers. He has
been very good to me.'

Have you known him long ?'

No ; a year, little more — since I laye
been at Santa Chiara.'

You like the place ?'

Pretty v»'ell. Assunta is happiest in
lier own country. I, perhaps, might prefer
Germany. But one place is much the
same as another while I have my violin.'

Music must be all-absorbing,' said
Eustace, noticing that the violin rather than
Assunta was the indispensable mentioned.

Yes ; Assunta complains of it, poor
child ! She says I am no companion ;
doubtless it is quite true,' and he gave a
quick sigh.

Your wife has her own friends ?'

Yes ; dozens of female friends, who
cackle round her from morning to night.
She has scarcely finished her household
duties before she is off after them.'

That is a food things,' said Eustace :
it gives you time for that gift of
Melusina.'

Ah, Melusina ! she shall be called so,

my beauty, my treasure ! Sometimes I
can hardly believe that it is I myself
who possess a Stracluarius. These are
happiness so great, one does not realize
them, and cannot grasp them.'

You would realize soon enough if the
happiness were taken from you, and regret
that it ever existed,' said Sir Eustace
bitterly.

Ursel glanced at him quickly. ' I
don't know,' he said ; ^ the past is a great
possession. I have known some lives ipswich
memory was the only joy Remaining
; you would not grudge them that V

I would not grudge anybody the
smallest ray of the rare sunshine of life,'
said Eustace. ' Well, Melusina is safe in
her case ; she is not a human being, and
the happiness she confers is not cruel as
death.'

There is also the future,' said Ursel,
speaking dreamily as if he had not heard.
With humanity there is always the
future ; it holds infinite possibilities.'

If you speak of earthly possibilities,'
said Eustace, * there are memories which
contain a o^erm of bitterness which no
future can eradicate, and such a memory
is mine.'

My friend,' said Ursel earnestly, ' you
are living and suffering in the present
now ; the comfort of the past and the
possibilities of the future are as yet alike
unknown to you. Time, time. There is
no healer like time.'

Have you ever suffered, Ursel V asked
Eustace suddenly.

Ursel paused a moment before he
answered, then he passed his hand through
his bushy hair with a look of perplexity.

I do not know,' lie said. * I have
thought so at times ; but true suffering
leaves traces : I have no scars. There is
proportion in all things ; when I take a
bird's-eye view of my life, I see that in the
midst of its details I have taken molehills
for mountains and ponds for the ocean.'

^ You are young to take a bird's-eye
view of life,' said Eustace. ' As for
myself, I cannot see the wood for the
trees.'

Ursel laid his hand on his shoulder.
I was saving' something of the sort to
Don Paolo one day,' he said ; ' and he
made a little rapid movement with his
finger upwards. '' The bird soars," he
said, '^ and looks down from above." '

Eustace nodded ; for the moment he
could not speak.

Ursel took uj^ his beloved violin and

began to play. His mind was full of
thoughts ; he could not express them in
words, he brought them out in music — a
slow movement like a mother's lullaby to
a tired child.

When it was over, Eustace was gone ;
as the last notes sounded he had gone
quietly away. His intercourse with Ursel
was very unconventional.

As Eustace walked homewards he
suddenly heard his name, and looking
up, perceived Joseph Mulroy coming
towards him. The kind little man
was walking past him, anxious to prove
that he had not come out in search of
him.

Ah, Muh'oy, out in the country !'
exclaimed Eustace, who had experienced
a kind of sick weariness of his own
thoughts, and was glad to see him.

We do not often come out on this
side of the town said Muh'oy, turning
back to walk with him. ^ Geordie does
not care for it.'

I have an attraction here,' said Eustace.

Ah, Ursel ! Have you seen him today
?'

Yes ; seen him in raptures over the
violin. He can hardly contain his feelings.'

Did you hear him play on it ?'

Yes ; it is a very beautiful one — the
tone glorious.'

I thought the tone excellent when I
tried it.'

You play ?'

Yes, a little. I am very fond of it.'
They walked on together silently, but

just before reaching home Joseph Mulroy
said suddenly :

^ Forgive me for mentioning it, Bellingham,

but don't believe everything you see
in the papers.'

You don't think they are to be trusted
said Eustace wearily.

Certainly not. I for one do not believe
it in the least ;' and he struck the
ground with the cane he carried most
emphatically.

^ Your faith is intact, Joe said Eustace
bitterly.

Only write and ask before you makeup
your mind.'

To whom should I write V

To Mr. Austen. Do do it, I beg of
you !'

I will'

My conviction is so strong,' repeated
Mr. Mulroy.

Eustace made no answer ; they were
approaching Palazzo St. Isidoro.

USTACE BELLINGHAM

wrote to Mr. Austen, and during
the week that elapsed before
he could receive a reply he determined
to believe in Marion's faithfulness.
Alice could not bring herself to believe
that she was married, and she repeated
her own conviction to her brother so often
and with such emphasis that she almost
convinced him ; but on the eighth day by
return of post the answer came.

The letters arrived when they were all

assembled at breakfast, Kitty Brown-clifford
breakfasting with them in her
riding-habit, for they were to make an
expedition into the mountains on horseback
that day.

The colour came and went in Alice's
face as she saw her brother glance at his
letters and make some trivial excuse to
leave the room.

Lady Bellingham pushed away her
plate and followed him. To her the
anxiety was very keen, and perhaps her
conscience was not quite clear about that
paragraph in the papers ; she looked and
felt painfully uncomfortable.

Eustace was not in the little salon appropriated
to his use, and his bedroom
door was locked. In answer to her repeated
knocks he threw open the door
and came out.

VOL. II. 27

^ You Avill like to see Ralph Austen ti;
letter, mother ?' he said.

Don't go. Eustace !' she exclaimed,
trying to detain him.

^ I have an engagement,' he answered,
and the letter will not bear discussion.'

He had forgotten his promise to join
the mountain expedition. Lady Bellingham
could not keep him ; she took the
letter and sat down, feeling suddenly faint
and uneasy.

It was short, and to the point.

My dear Bellingham,

I cannot bring myself to regret
the premature announcement that has
appeared in the Times ^ if it tends to
restore your long-troubled peace of mind.
That it is a little premature is a sufficient
answer to the question you put to me

with what the French call a certain
hriitalite. I wish I could assure you
to the contrary.

Yours affectionately,

^ Ralph Austen.'

Lady Bellingham dashed down the
letter with an indignant movement.

Odious man, to write so flippantly.
A little premature ! Of course, that
means that the thing is settled, so the
announcement will do no harm. I don't
see how it can do any harm,' she repeated
to herself uneasily.

Rising from her seat, she called Alice.

There is no peace anywhere in this
house !' she exclaimed pettishly. ^ Come
into Eustace's room and read this.'

Alice read in silence, her mother

watching her face.

27—2

What do you think of it V she
said.

Think of it 1' cried AHce ; ' the letter
is an intolerable one, heartless, odious, and
impertinent. But the fact itself is such,
that really it does not so much matter in
what terms it is announced.'

May has consented, you think V

Evidently. He underlines a little
'prematurely. He wishes us to make no
mistake about it. And I had such implicit
faith in her ! I do not think that
I shall ever believe in anyone again.'

Heroics, Alice !' said her mother.
^ You can't be faithful when there exists
nothing to which to be faithful. May
has behaved like the sensible woman I
always knew her to be. I admire her for
her strength of character.'

And I hate her !' cried Alice, the hot

tears rushing to her eyes. ^ Mamma, do
not speak of her ; I cannot bear it.'

^ You are a fooHsh child, without a grain
of common-sense.'

I hope I may never have that cruel
worldly, heartless quality you call commonsense,
but which I call self-interest !' cried
Alice passionately.

My dear, you forget yourself !'

I can't help it. Poor Eustace ! This
is too hard. Oh, mother, this is too
cruel !'

I shall leave you to recover yourself,'
said Lady Bellingham, ' and to try to
regain your self-control. Remember you
are not to talk in this wild way before
Kitty. I will not have it. It is ridiculous
to describe Eustace as heart-broken
and miserable'.

^ I will say nothing to her,' said Alice.

I have not the slightest wish to speak
of such things before a comparative
stranger ; but for her, things might still
have been happy and true and honourable.'


My dear, I am very thankful that
nobody but myself is present to hear you
talk such nonsense.'

Georgina's voice was heard calling outside.


Alice, Alice ! are you not coming ?
The horses are waiting; we ought to start.'

^ You see, Alice, you are keeping them
waiting.'

I cannot go, mamma,' said Alice ; ' I
could not possibly go on an expedition
to-day.'

But Kitty cannot go alone with
Georgie and Mr. Mulroy ; it would be
too dull for her.'

?o3

Oh, she will get on perfectly well !
Georgie and Joseph are modern lovers.
Georgie cannot endure tetes-a-tete, and he
is learning his lesson at last.'

Do not speak like that,' said Lady
Bellingham.

^ I too am learning my lesson,' answered
Alice. ^ And it is a bitter one. Eustace
and Joseph and I were not made for the
nineteenth century.'

Then you will not go ? They must
be told.'

Georgie's voice again called her from
below.

No, I cannot. If you are going
downstairs, will you tell them, mamma ?'

Lady Bellingham went down, and Alice
remained alone.

She felt very unhappy, more unhappy
than she had ever been before. She sat

down before the writing-table, and took
up a leather photograph-case that was
lying on it. The case was fastened by a
spring, but Alice knew the trick well, and
opened it.

She sat motionless, gazing at the
portrait of Marion. It was a beautiful
photograph, Marion standing in a very
simple attitude, with her hands tightly
clasped, looking straight at the beholder.
There was a very grave, gentle expression
on the lovely lips and in the large eyes.
The photograph had caught the very trick
of her soft hair where it curled on the
brow and was slightly dishevelled on the
temples.

Alice pressed it to her lips ; it was as
if she were saying farewell to one who
had died, and was parted from her forever.
She had loved May with that*

passionate love that one woman sometimes
has for another, to whom she looks up
with an admiration and almost worship as
to a saint.

That kiss was a farewell to the ideal of
her youth. May had proved faithless,
and she would trust no one aofain — never
believe in love, or strength, or constancy,
on earth. She shut the case, laid down
her head on the table, and sobbed bitterly.


Lady Bellingham very seldom went out
in the morning ; but as soon as the three
had departed with much unwillingness on
their expedition, she descended hastily and
went to call on Mrs. Brown-Clifford.

She could hardly have explained even
to herself why she did so ; it was probably
that she wanted to be put once
more into harmony with herself and her

own ideas of all that was desirable, and
she fancied that her neighbour might help
to do so.

Mrs. Brown-Clifford was sitting alone
in her hotel-salon. She had contrived
to give the room something of the appearance
of her own English home. Her
chair was in the same place, her table
beside her with its little paper books of
instruction on all the forms of knitting
and crochet that had ever been invented,
and a whole pile of English novels.

She rose and took off her large spectacles
when Lady Bellingham came in.

How good of you to come and see mein
the mornings 1' she said, with something
approaching animation in her voice. ^ I
was thinking to myself that it was horribly
dull abroad, and wishing myself back in
England.'

If you find it so dull, what made you
leave your comfortable home and come
here V said Lady Bellingham softly.

A kind of blush rose in Mrs. Brown-clifford's
large face.

^ You may well ask she answered. * It
was not my own doing ; but there is something
unwise in asking advice and then
flying in the face of it.'

You followed advice V

I did. Your brother, Mr. St. Aubyn's
advice

He is a wise man said Lady Bellingham
thoughtfully. ' I know no one with
more forethought and penetration.'

I am glad to hear it said Mrs. Brown-clifford,
' for, to tell the truth, I was
beginning to doubt both of those qualities,
and to wish I had not listened to him, and
were now safe at home.'

^ Mrs. Clifford,' said Lady Bellingham,
drawing her chair closer, ' I am sorry to
hear you say that. I should wish you to
know that ni}^ great wish is that your
visit to Italy should be to you the beginning
of much satisfaction.'

I don't know that personally I want
any more satisfaction in life,' said the old
lady placidly. ^ My sister and I should
be perfectly satisfied and contented if
Kitty where married, and I don't see any
prospect of that at present, in spite of
what Mr. St. Aubyn said.'

What did my brother say ?' said Lady
Bellingham, trying not to appear too eager.

He told me that your son, Sir Eustace,
would be an exceedingly desirable husband
for my daughter.'

Did he speak of the past — a former
enofaofement V

I know all about that, and I do not
in the least object to it. Few men marry
their first love. Mr. Brown-ClifFord did ;
but there are exceptions to every rule.'

It was an unfortunate affair altogether
began Lady Bellingham ; ^ but we are
greatly consoled by the news that Miss
Austen has entirely recovered from it, and
is on the eve of marriage with her cousin,
Lord Austen.'

I thought I saw in the papers that
the marriage had taken place.'

The announcement was premature,'
answered Lady Bellingham ; ' but her
father writes this morning it is to be.'

Recovery from an affair of the sort is a
mere matter of time with most people,' went
on Mrs. Brown-Clifford. ' Mr. Brown-clifford
was very romantic. Some of
his nonsense has been inherited by Kitty.'

^ Kitty looks ill said Lady Bellingham
hastily. ' What is the matter with her ?
I mean really — we are alone.'

There is nothing the matter with her
that I know of. I dare say she will be
all right when we go home again.'

^ Pray do not do that. I hardly know
how to put it to you ; but I am fond of
Kitty, just as if she AA^ere my own child.
I should be grateful to you if you would
wait a little longer.'

^ I have not been prudent,' said Mrs.
Brown-Clifford. ' Your brother assured
me that my over-precautions would destroy
my daughter's future. I relaxed them,
and I regret it.'

You do not mean,' said Lady Bellingham,
lowering her voice and speaking
very eagerly — ' you do not mean that you
think Kitty cares for my boy ?'

^ I will not go so far as that,' said Mrs.
Brown-Clifford, unfolding her knitting,
while her head shook tremulously. ' But
I wish we were safe at home again.'

^ If I thought so,' exclaimed Lady
Bellingham, ' I would move heaven and
earth to secure their marriage 1'

You would do that anyhow,' said the
old lady dryly.

Lady Bellingham forced a little laugh.

I admit that there is nothing I would
welcome more,' she said. * Dear Mrs.
Clifford, it would add a thousandfold to
my zest in the matter if Kitty cares.'

^ I don't say that Kitty cares,' said her
mother quickly. ' But I will say this,
I am disappointed in your son. Mr.
St. Aubyn spoke of him with enthusiasm,
called him the finest fellow he knew, and
prepared me for a paragon. What do I

find ? In physique, no exaggeration, certainly
; but in all else ! He has grown
very dull, scarcely opening his lips ; he is
very irritable now, to judge by the way
he bites his moustache ; he pays no attention
to my daughter, and he looks as if
all the life and sparkle of existence had
gone out of him. Flat champagne !' she
said, shaking her head mournfully ; * perfectly
flat champagne !'

Lady Bellingham bit her lips hard, and
had a great struggle to mask her mortification
and displeasure sufficiently to enable
her to smile again, and say softly:

But with all these disadvantages, dear
Mrs. Clifford, your sweet little Kitty loves
him.'

She doesn't.'

Ah, wee won't dispute about words —
mine was too strong a one ! Well, well.

Ave shall soon see a difference in my poor
boy now that, perforce, his mind will be
turned from his tragic muse to the charming
domestic qualities nearer at hand.
You will soon see his old bright smile

aofam.

Mrs. Brown-Clifford emitted a sound
that was something between a snort and a
grunt. She drew her shawl round her.

Take care what you do, Lady Bellingham,'
she said ; ' young people are not so
easy to manage as we old ones fancy.'

^ But, dear Mrs. Clifford,' said Lady
Bellingham, in her softest voice (and her
voice could be very soft when she chose),
^ you do not really mean to say that you
think a young man's first love can really
influence his whole after-life. I mean to
say, of course, one sympathizes with it,
and one hates to see them suffer, and one

VOL. II. 28

would do what one could to prevent it ;
but still you must confess that, viewed
from the common-sense of experience, one
divests the feeling of an immense amount
of exaggeration, and it reassumes its right
proportion in life.'

I suppose all elderly people think so.'

Lady Bellingham did not like being
called an elderly person; she had never
looked upon herself in that light. She
gave a little forced laugh.

It is perhaps when one's first youth is
over that one begins to consider these
things,' she said. ^ Later on, I suppose
'

^ Yes ; I suppose later on sympathy
takes the place of obduracy,' said Mrs.
Brown-Clifford. ' Second childhood, you
would call it.'

Dear me 1' exclaimed Lady Bellingham,

trying hard not to betray how
pettish she felt. ^ You will not allow me
to come to the point.'

I imagined there must be a point
somewhere that had to be reached.'

The point is this : my son's engagement
is at an end ; he is naturally unhappy
now, but he is a reasonable man,
and will soon reconcile himself to the
inevitable.'

I suppose you look upon my daughter
as the inevitable to which he is to reconcile
himself?' exclaimed the lady, her
head shaking more than ever.

^ You put things so — allow me to
say — so crudely. What I meant was
simply this : I want him to marry your
daughter ; she herself wishes it ; I want
you to wish it also — I cannot put it more
plainly.'

28-

Mrs. Brown-Clifford did not speak fora
moment ; she folded and unfolded her
hands restlessly. Lady Bellingham sat
watching her most eagerly.

Lady Bellingham,' she said suddenly,
I am not like you. I believe in love, to
a certain extent ; I ought to believe in it,
for Mr. Brown Clifford '

Lady Bellingham waved her hand in
uncontrollable impatience. She faltered,
then steadied herself, and went on :

I see you have no patience for it ;
but I wish to speak plainly. If Kitty
were a fine, handsome, or even pretty girl,
the sort of girl whom men fall in love
with, I should say, I will not for the
world deprive her of the right of her
youth and beauty — honest, devoted love-making.
It may be nonsense, but it has
its value for all that ; and that you undervalue

it so systematically only shows that
you never experienced it.'

My dear Mrs. Clifford '

Hush ! listen. You were much too
wise — but there, we are not all made
alike. Let me go on. Kitty is a quiet,
humdrum, old-fashioned little person. I
don't say that I have brought her up
wisely — I am beginning to have my
doubts ; but I have tried to do my best.
She likes your son. If he marries her, it
will be from no mercenary motive — he is
a thorough gentleman — it will be because
well, because if he cannot get the lady
he loves, he will turn to the lady who
cares for him, and because you have
teased him into it. Let me finish. I
think he will make a kind husband ; I
will take him on trust. I have brought
up Kitty in an unromantic school ; she

will not expect much. It will turn out
as well, probably, as most marriages, I
have no doubt ; only '

No '' only," dear Mrs. ClifFord, I entreat
; your view is so wise, so farseeing
'

It is far-seeing enough to know that
Mr. Brown Clifford would never have
allowed it !' exclaimed the old lady ; and
rising abruptly from her chair, she
pushed aside Lady Bellingham with both
her fat hands, and left the room, leaving
that lady thoroughly taken aback at so
unceremonious a proceeding. "She waited
some minutes, then, finding that there
was no sign of her hostess's return, she
went home again, satisfied with the main
results of her visit, although burning with
dislike to the good lady who had treated
her with such scant courtesy.

HE days passed slowly away at
Santa Chiara. Sir Eustace
would have given half he possessed
to get away, but he could not go
before his sister's marriage, which was to
take place in the early spring. His mother
would accept no excuse, would take no refusal
; and in his restlessness he reconciled
himself to his enforced stay by thinking
that England would not be better, after all,
than this hateful little foreign town with its
dull sleepy beauty which had long ceased to
have any charm for him.

The only thing he cared for was to sit in
Ursel's bare yellow-washed salon and listen
to that wonderful music which seemed to
echo every thought and longing that passed
over brain and soul. He came and went ashe
pleased, scarcely speaking, making little
or no comment on the music, listening while
his cigar went out, and his soul shone out
of wistful, glistening eyes. Ursel's friends
thought him an eccentric Englishman with
no manner or sociability about him ; Misunderstood
him with a subtle intuition.
But one among the frequent guests watched
him with daily increasing interest, watched
him at first with the strange metaphysical
love of analyzing human suffering which
belongs to the student of human nature,
gradually ripening into the holy longing of
the priest to comfort, perhaps to save.

Don Paolo used to walk home with him

afterwards, talking of common things with
the originality of a charming talker.
Eustace began to take pleasure in his
society, to value the fast-ripening acquaintance.
His evenings, under the spell of
Ursel's music and the long walks home,
became to him the cup of water in a thirsty
land.

And all this time, gently, with cautious,
clever hands, his mother was drawing the
net round him. She was very kind to him,
so kind and tender that Alice thought,
regretfully, that she had indeed misjudged
her, and blamed herself severely for her own
hard judgment.

Lady Bellingham did all she could to
make home pleasant to her son. She never
again uttered one of the hard sayings about
love and common-sense, on which she used
to harp so incessantly ; on the contrary, her

kind and gentle words and sentiments were
always ready for him.

Very gently, with consummate tact, Lady
Bellingham drew Kitty more and more into
the family circle ; but here she sometimes
almost lost patience. Kitty could not, or
would not, show to advantage when Eustace
was present ; no amount of drawing-out
would produce more than gentle monosyllables,
no fun more than the frightened
little laugh which bore so strong a resemblance
to a schoolgirl's giggle.

Alice would do nothing to help. She could
not avoid perceiving her mother's drift,
although she blamed herself, and tried to
believe that she was mistaken ; but the
very idea of it froze up the dawn of affection
she had once felt for her poor little
friend, and made her positively unjust to
her.

And so the weeks went by, and the last
day before the wedding came.

Georgie had been quite unlike herself all
day. At the very end of the courtship
which she had received so coolly, and with
so studied an effort to be matter-of-fact, her
courage gave way, and, to her infinite disgust
and loss of self-esteem, she found
herself a commonplace and very tearful
girl, all her theories vanishing in the greatness
of the approaching change.

The two sisters sat together in their little
sitting-room ; Alice on a low chair, Georgie
sitting at her feet hiding her face in her
lap. It was nearly dark, but they would
not have the light brought in ; Georgie
hoped that no eye but her sister's would
behold her breaking-down.

I am so ashamed of myself, Alice,' she
cried almost passionately. * After all I

have said, and thought, and believed, to belike
this at the last !'

But what is it ? what is it, darling ?*

I thought myself so wise, the very
personification of good sense and prudence.
I calculated all the pros and cons with such
nicety ; this marriage seemed such an
admirable plan, so desirable in every
way

^ Georgie, Georgie ! you do not regret it
now ?'

I suppose you cannot understand 1' exclaimed
her sister, pushing back her hair.
You are so uncomplicated and simple in
your honest milkmaid-belief in love and
marriage ; but I am not like that. I thought
it all such nonsense. I had no patience
with Eustace and his folly ; it was so
eminently unpractical, and I could not seethe
force of it.'

Darling,' said Alice sadly, ' do not goon
like this now !'

But I must ; I want you at least to
understand me. I am indignant with myself
because I cannot keep up my own
traditions. Alice, Alice ! I can see nothing
now of these sensible arguments. I can see
nothing and feel nothing but that Joe,
poor fellow, whom I have half laughed at,
half tolerated only, is greater a thousand
times than I am, because he knows how to
love, and what it is to love.'

And you, Georgie dearest, you are learning
now V

I don't know ;' and Georgie laughed and
cried together. ' I can't give up my
opinions so quickly as all that. It is not for
this I said I would marry him ; but I suppose,
after all, it is better if one does love
one's husband.'

Oh, it is better ! How can you doubt it,
darling T

For better and for worse,' said Georgie.

Ah, your theories will carry you through
the " better," but you will require mine for
the " worse," '

I suppose you are right ; but if I give up,
Alice, and acknowledge that I do love this
small, ugly, awkward husband that will be
mine, with all my heart, I shall be as great
a donkey as Eustace.'

Her voice was almost hysterical, but
Alice did not even smile.

You will tell him, Georgie ? You will
not grudge him that happiness V

I don't know — I cannot say.'
His engagement has not been much
happiness to him yet.'

He would not say so.'

No, he would not admit it ; but it is

true. He has looked so wistful, so disappointed
for so long.'

^ It was not my fault, Alice. I told him
to expect nothing else.'

Then he will be the gladder.'

Poor Joe ! After all, Alice, it comes to
this : he is a thousand times too good forme,
and if I really thought of his happiness
I should break off the engagement now.'

I think he would prefer to be the judge
of his own happiness,' said Alice, smiling
radiantly. ' Oh, Georgie darling, you will
be happy now ; you have come to your own
true self, and the hard worldly crust is
melting away.'

You will triumph over me.'

No, no 1 only thank God over you,
darling ; for you and Joe will be happy
now.'

I hate it !' she exclaimed vehemently ;

but Alice only laughed, and petted and
coaxed her.

She rose presently, and went to look at
her eyes in the glass, to see whether they
were red. They told tales too decidedly for
her to face the lamps, so she would not
rejoin the others.

Presently Kitty came gently in. Alice
made a little movement, as if she did not
welcome the interruption. Kitty heard
rather than saw it, and she spoke fast and
timidly :

Georgie dear, I will not keep you a
moment. I only came to bring you my
wedding-present ; it has only just arrived.
Mamma and I were so much afraid that
it would not arrive in time ; and you see it
was almost late. Georgie dear, do like it !'
And she put a velvet case into her hands.

Georgie opened it, and exclaimed at the

beauty of the great diamond and ruby ring
it contained.

Oh, Kitty, it is too beautiful ! What a
splendid present !' she exclaimed with enthusiasm.


It is indeed beautiful 1' said Alice.

Something in her voice struck on little
Kitty's sensitive nerve — something wanting
in cordiality. She scarcely heeded Georgie's
ecstasies, or felt her eager kisses ; she was
watching Alice, listening anxiously for her
next words.

I think it is the most exquisite ring
I ever saw !' cried Georgie, in her enchantment.


I am so glad you like it,' said Kitty,
rather tremulously.

Alice took her hand kindly, with a touch
of compunction for her own hard feelings.

How cold you are, Kitty !' she exclaimed.

VOL. II. 29

This ^Yarm evening your little fingers
should not be so cold.'

Kitty trembled a little ; the soft tears
rose to her eyes.

It is nothing,' she said.

'You are nervous, Kitty,' Alice went on.
• Poor child ! what should make you so
nervous ?'

I am not very well.'

Kitty was glad that the door opened and
Lady Bellingham came in, bringing a flood
of light into the little sitting-room, to summon
them out of the dark and quietness
into the other room.

Georgie could not face it — she ran away
upstairs ; but Lady Bellingham took the
other two away with her. Kitty looked
very pretty as she came into the drawing-room,
with wide dazzled eyes, from the
darkness into light.

^^HE next day the marriage took
place, Georgie in bridal splendour,
her only bridesmaid her
sister, who looked sweeter and fairer than
the bride herself.

Georgie had finished all her crying the
evening before ; she was a very quiet, gentle
bride, all the brilliance and sharpness of
her ordinary manner softened into a becoming
gravity that was full of sweetness.

Eustace, when he kissed his sister and
felt her clinging to him as the last 



byes were said, felt that the tie between
them was stronger than it had ever been
before. He had never cared for this sister
as he had for Alice, missing the womanly
sympathy that he had fancied she did not
possess. For a long time there had been a
kind of tacit antagonism between himself
and Georgie ; they could not disguise the
fact that neither approved of the other's
conduct or character, and they had drifted
apart.

Eustace came into Alice's room when all
was over, and threw himself listlessly into
a chair.

So that is over he said. ' The first
volume of Georgie's life is closed ; her
behaviour to-day made me augur better for
poor Mulroy's happiness than I should have
done a week ago. I did not suspect her
of so much feeling.'

A good deal of her talk was nineteenth
century bravado,' said Alice. ' Her heart
is very loving ; and what am I to do
without her !' Her eyes filled with tears.

You must take up that gentle little
Clifford girl,' said her brother kindly. ' I
shan't be haj^py leaving you, Alice, unless
you make something of a companion of
her.'

Do you like her, Eu ?' said his sister
very suddenly.

Of course ; she is quiet and unobtrusive.
I don't suppose she has an opinion in the
world. After all, after the specimens of
women one sees in this world, that sortis
refreshing.'

Alice fancied he half alluded to his
mother and Georgie, and she exclaimed
indignantly :

Women outfit to have character. I

should think you were the last person to
admire a nonentity.'

I only said it was refreshing,' he
answered with a yawn, ' so you need not
hire up so, Alice. I am sick of powerful
emotions and such stuff ; after all, perhaps
my mother is right as to the superiority of
the domestic element

His tone struck Alice with a sharper
pang than she had ever experienced before.

Eustace !' she cried, ' if you lose faith
you weill break my heart !'

They say,' said Eustace, * that it is easy
to make good Romanists out of Protestants
of the narrow order, because the process
enlarges their minds and faith ; but that,
on the contrary, it is exceedingly dangerous
to convert a Romanist to Protestantism.
The reason is obvious, quite apart from the
merits of the creeds. You can always learn

to believe more from the less ; the difficulty
is, when you l)egin to unlearn, to know
where to stop and draw in your too widely
diffused faith. It is apt to land you
nowhere.'

Darling, do not speak like that !'

*We shall have Georgie that most
amiable spectacle, a doting wife, an enthusiastic
votary at the shrine of Hymen,
you will see ; and I who have believed too
much am proportionately cured. Don't
look so unhappy, child ; it is an excellent
thing, my mother would say.'

And May V

I forbid you to speak of her I' he exclaimed
passionately. * My one hope is
not to hear her mentioned, so that I should
not be forced to think of her. Faith dies
hard, you see;' and he forced a little laugh, so
bitter that Alice could not restrain her tears.

When do you go away ?* she said
presently, as soon as she could master her
voice.

On Thursday ; my mother made me
promise to stay till then. And Ursel plays
on Wednesday night at the Opera-house,
so I do not so much mind staying till
then.'

I am glad I shall have you just for
three more days she said in a choked
voice. ' I am afraid it has been very dull
for you here for a long time.'

You have done your best to prevent
its being so,' he said, touched by the dejection
of his favourite sister ; and he stooped
down and kissed her.

The afternoon dragged on in the listless
weary way that always seems so endless to
the survivors of a wedding-party. In the
evening the Brown Clifford and Madame

di St. Isidoro came in ; the Bellinghamss
welcomed their arrival with relief.

What will you say,' said Marie di
St. Isidoro, ' if I betray the fact that Ursel
is actually in the house % He is upstairs with
my Prioree ; he came in about ten minutes
ago ; he wanted to consult him about some
poor opera singer who is ill, or hurt, or
something. I did not ask them to comedown
; I thought I would speak to you first,
I know what you must all be feeling —
very sorrowful, very dull ; but we French
and Italians cannot judge you strange
inhabitants of an island. We, under
such circumstances, should welcome a
distraction ; you, perhaps, cherish your
gloom.'

Even Lady Bellingham laughed.

^ Only invite them, Marie,' she said. * It
will be the greatest boon.'

Madame chi St. Isidoro nodded and
smiled, and went away upstairs again.

It will be something to induce Don
Paolo to come and see us at last,' said Alice ;
and she was a little astonished to see her
brother greet the Prioree as a well-known
friend, when, five minutes later, he and
Ursel came in, escorted triumphantly by
Madame di Isidoro.

Don Paolo was introduced to Lady
Bellingham, and went and sat down by her,
talking in fluent English, to her relief, for
she particularly disliked talking Italian ;
and Ursel came up to the little group of
young people who surrounded Madame di
St. Isidoro.

We can have no music after all,' she
said regretfully. ' The maestro has not
brought Melusina.'

She is asleep,' said Ursel gleefully ;

asleep in her bed of ebony and ivory on a
red velvet cushion. I wonder how, I wonder
whence, she came !'

And he looked searchingly at the little
group of English faces before him. To him
they seemed the personification of English
wealth, in their graceful evening dress. All
the faces looked innocent ; only Eustace
nodded lightly, and said :

Ah, maestro ! like a falling star she shot
out of space ; and one fine morning you will
wake and find the casket open, and the star
shot back whence it came.'

There are some gifts that end thus
said Ursel, and a shade of melancholy came
over his thoughtful face. ' Have these
signori ever heard of Niccola Calabrese V

'" The singer '?'

The contralto singer. Some said " tancred
" was written for her ; her Orsini was

the finest ever heard ; and when she sang
the " Orfeo," they said Orfeo himself had returned.
She was the daughter of an innkeeper
at Sora. An im'pvesario heard her ;
she was trained ; she sang for two years.
One night as she came home from the
theatre some one said that the fire-flies were
more numerous than the sands of the sea.
Fancy caring for such trivialities ! She
must needs go down to the green water-meadows
on the outskirts of the town,
where the marsh-plants smell sweet and
dank, and the fire-flies dance a dance of
living fire on the hot wild nights. The
damp marsh-fever touched her throat, laid a
hand on the magnificent chest which produced
those organ-like notes. Poor Niccola !
she never sang another note !'

Does she live still ? — what does she do?'
cried Alice, while Kitty leant forward

with parted lips and earnest sympathetic
eyes.

Yes, she lives still. She makes the most
wonderful artificial flowers ; she is celebrated
for her art ; and she goes about croaking;
and wheezing; like an old tin-kettle !'

*Did it break her heart? Is she very
miserable V said Kitty.
Ursel paused.

No,' he said ; ' she is one of the most
light-hearted merry creatures.'

Well said Eustace, smiling, ' have you
not caused us to waste our sympathies, my
friend V

I asked no sympathy for her, but for
the world to whom her art was lost,'
answered Ursel gravely.

One cannot understand her being so gay
after having once enjoyed and then lost
such a gift,' said Alice,

Ah, signora !' said Ursel, ' when one is
young one finds it hard to forgive the cure
of such wounds as these ; but Nature herself
should correct us. The grass grows over
the grave, though the grave itself is still
there.'

Then there is no cure ?' said Kitty
softly.

No ; but it is hidden — the green grass,
the returning cheerfulness and smiles, like
poor Niccola ; but the grave is there !'

And the moral of it all is — never be
tempted to run after fire-flies or any such
foolish Will-o'-the-wisp kind of allurements,'
said Madame di St. Isidoro. ' And that moral
is a very difficult one to inculcate ; we all
of us have a leaning to the pursuit of
fire-flies.'

Lady Bellingham overheard the last
words.

I hope you are preaching wisdom to my
foolish young people !' she exclaimed gaily.

There are worse things in the world
than fire-flies, madamina,' said Don Paolo
to his mother. * Why this attack on their
pretty characters ?'

Because, like the lady our good maestro
has been telling us about, we may chance
to lose a Q-reat and substantial advantage
in an airy and unsubstantial pursuit.'

'Ah, ah I it is metaphorical, I perceive

So metaphorical that we are getting out
of our depth,' said Sir Eustace, to whom the
conversation gave more pain than he cared
to face.

The Prioree joined them, and the conversation
changed to lighter topics.

HE next morning Lady Bellingham

rose with a settled purpose

in her mind. She was about

to play her master-stroke, and her very

soul quaked within her at the prospect that

lay before her.

She could not speak at breakfast, and
could hardly eat ; a circumstance so unusual
that Alice was quite anxious about it. She
fancied that her mother was fretting over
the loss of Georgie, and wished that she
had more sympathy and interests in common

with her, so ' that she could hope to
become as much of a companion to her asher
sister had always been.

But Lady Bellingham did not heed, and
probably never even saw, Alice's tender
little attentions to her; she was so absorbed
in the thought that had now become the
one paramount scheme of her life.

She let the whole day slip by, wanting
courage to begin ; but, with twilight, courage
and opportunity came together, and she
passed her hand through her son's arm, and
spoke rather huskily :

Eustace, I want to talk to you ; come to
my room.'

Very well, mother,' he said with a sigh.
He always hated conversations that began
with such a formula, they had been productive
of so much pain to him ; but hs
followed her resignedly.

VOL. II. 30

She sat down by her writing-table, and
logan to open and shut the drawers
nervously. He stood beside her, leaning
against the window, looking out into the dull
narrow street, in which the hum of life always
seemed to increase as daylight declined.

eustace dear, I want to talk to you
about business.'

Yes, mother.'

But don't stand looking into the street
like that 1' she exclaimed impatiently.
Cannot you listen to me more attentively V

He turned obediently, and sat down with
a weary sigh.

Things are in a very serious condition
she said. * There is no doubt about it. I
have an enormous amount of bills that I
cannot pay.'

That is a misfortune, but it is scarcely
my fault, mother,' he said.

Did I say it was ? but there are, unfortunately,
rumours that the people who
hold the c^reat mortal-es on Castleford intend
to call them in.'

Impossible !' and he started to his feet.

It is too true. Mr. Calloway writes
very kindly to warn me of it, and to ask
me for your address.'

But even should it be true, there would
be no difficulty in finding fresh mortgagees.'

To some extent, no ; but to the full
extent it will be impossible, so Mr. Calloway
tells me. The estate, at its present reduced
rental, will not bear it.'

I suppose you are certain of your facts,
mother

Only too certain. I only repeat to you

what Mr. Calloway writes ; perhaps you

would prefer seeing his letters yourself.'

If you do not mind.'

30—2

She opened a drawer, took out one or
two letters, and, handing them to him, leant
back in her chair, anxiously scanning his
face.

Eustace read them through carefully,
then laying them down said :

I will see Calloway and speak to him on
the subject on Friday. I will send him a
telegram to meet me in London. He is an
alarmist, as you know, and all may not be
as black as he paints it.'

It is black enough, even allowing for a
certain amount of exaggeration.'

Yes,' he answered gloomily ' The
prospect is not an alluring one.'

My poor boy T exclaimed Lady Bellingham
; then suddenly changing her tone,
But I think I can hardly pity you when T
see you so intensely bond to your own
interests.'

Not at all,' he said. ' My interests are
of vital importance to me. How can I
show it better, in order to please you V

Your are wilfully blind, Eustace.'

My dear mother !'

It is such nonsense she exclaimed, tapping
her foot on the floor, ' for a man in
your position, on the very verge of ruin, to
hesitate when wealth and ease and happiness
are actually at your feet !'

I do not understand.'

'Of course I am thinking of your
marrying.'

He made an impatient gesture.
Cannot you be satisfied with what you
have already done in that matter, mother V
What have I done ? I have done
nothing.'

On that point we differ.'

The tears rushed to her eyes. His tone

was so cold and constrained, it seemed to
frighten lier, as if for the first time she
caught sight of some barrier between herself
and her son that might some day become
insurmountable.

Eustace she exclaimed, with a kind of
appeal in her voice, ' can you never, never
see how deeply and devotedly I have your
interest at heart ?'

I know it too well, mother,' he answered,
with an impatient movement. ' Have I ever
hinted to the contrary V

Then do — do listen to me !'

Am I not listening '?'

When I tell you that you are blind to
your own interests, I mean it really, practically.
Jf, now that your engagement to
I mean, now that all hope of a marriage
with May is over, you would consent to
think of marrying some one else No,

no ; don't look like that ! It can never bethe
same, I admit ; but still, when men have
failed in that way, they are often ready to
be satisfied and very contented with a little
ijuiet, gentle, domestic wife who loves them.'

I suppose you mean Kitty Brown-clifford,'
said Eustace wearily. ' But I don't
suppose that her poor little fortune would
satisfy your ideas, mother.'

Her poor little fortune !' exclaimed Lady
Bellingham ; but she stopped herself hastily.

Was it possible that he did not know %
A rapid conviction came upon her that he
certainly did not know, owing to Mrs.
Brown - Clifford's perpetual precautions.
Kitty would always be supposed to have
the prospect of inheriting her mother's
comfortable fortune, the pretty house of
moderate size, with all its evidences of
comfortable ease, but nothing more.

Lady Bellingham was thankful that she
had arrested her exclamation in time. To
know that Kitty was a very great heiress,
indeed, would so completely change Sir
Eustace's ideas that she felt that her wishes
would be altogether in vain.

Eustace,' she said, ' you speak too contemptuously
of a very comfortable fortune.
It would not require so very much money,'
she said wistfully, * to enable you to live at
home, and look after your property. Remember
that it is your home after all, and
how much you have loved it.'

Mother, why do you go on and on with
the same old story % Sometimes I think
you like to torment me.'

It is all for your good.'

With what bitter distaste did that constant
refrain fall upon his ears ! Lady
Bellingham might have been startled if she

had been able to see into her son's hot,
rebellious spirit, to have understood that
everything had become so bitter and distasteful
to him that he was ready to turn
to anything as a refuge from his discouragement
and the fatal feeling of want of interest
in anything, with which the victim has to
fight as Laocoon fought the serpents that
encircled him.

But there is no creature on earth so
merciless as a woman who sees but one
aim in life, and has absorbed all her
faculties into its attainment.

I have something to tell you,' she said
her lips turning very white. ' I want to
excite in you some feeling towards Kitty —
if not for your own sake, for hers.'

She is a very good little girl,' he said.
I. like her very much.'

^ Ah, she is more than that. Alice said

one day that she thought that if men
allowed women to choose their wives for
them, that there would be fewer unhappy
marriages ; and I think it is true. You see,
we women know so much better than men
what other women are. Now, little Kitty
would make the dearest, most charming
little wife, she is so sweet and docile, with a
tender loving nature ; and if she was dressed
properly she would be very pretty indeed.'

I dare say,' he said indifferently.

Would it not do "?' she said wistfully.

I think Miss Brown-clifford worthy of
a better fate than to marry a man who has
nothing — not even affection — to offer her
he said stiffly.

But if she does not think so,' said Lady
Bellingham, speaking with dry lips.

Eustace started. ' I do not think you
ought to say that !' he exclaimed.

There are times, Eustace, when it is the
greatest mistake not to speak pLainly, and
this is one of them. I wish to be quite
open with you. You and Kitty have been
much thrown together of late. She is a very
simple little thing, unaccustomed to attention.
She has not seen much of the world ;
she has had none of the silly girl-friends
who talk without cease about lovers and
such nonsense. With a simple girl like
that it does not do to trifle ; things go deep.'

He shook his head impatiently.

It is of no use to deny it,' Lady
Bellingham went on ; ' and if I were to allow
myself to be deterred by false delicacy now,
I should be incurring a grave responsibility.
Kitty has learnt to care for you '

Mother !'

Let me go on — to care for you a great
deal too much for her own peace of mind.

You have yourself noticed low ill she has
been looking, that she is quite changed
from what she was

I should be absolutely absurd in my
conceit, and contemptible, if I allowed myself
to believe you, mother,' he said indignantly.


He was holding a little paper-knife in
his hands, and in his excitement he snapped
it in two.

The breakage jarred on his mother's nerves.

Take care !' she said pettishly. * You
have broken it ; it is too tiresome !'

I beg your pardon !' he exclaimed. * I
am sorry if it was of any value. And now
can I go ? Or have you anything else to
say to me V

Lady Bellingham felt despairingly that
she did not know what to say next. Perhaps
the natural impulse that made her

lean back in Ler chair, and say quietly,
Poor little Kitty !' was better than any
acting to further her purpose.

Sir Eustace, who had risen, turned round
with a softened expression on his face.

Heaven forbid that what you have said
should be true !' he said.

But it is true, it is quite true, and — I
hardly like to tell you, but her mother
herself confessed it to me, poor child — poor
little thing !'

Do you blame me V

Lady Bellingham paused a moment. She
could not say that she blamed him ; he
would not believe it, his conscience being
so perfectly clear.

*No, dear,' she said slowly, *it is not
your fault ; it is her misfortune, poor little
tender, gentle thing! There, go now,
Eustace ; do not let us talk any more about

it. The world is so made up of misfortunes
and disappointments that one victim more
or Jess cannot really signify.'

I do not, and I cannot believe it !' he
said so vehemently that his mother saw
that his belief was wavering,

Leave me now, Eustace,' she said ; ' I
feel so worn out that I shall not come down
attain.'

He left the room, leaving her with a
tired sense that she had won some way on
the path of her wishes.

IS fate seemed to Eustace Telling
^3 ^ ^^^-^ ^^ ^^ closing in more and
more daily, like the famous
Spanish torture. The idea that Kitty
cared for him at first was perfectly intolerable
; but as he became more accustomed
to the notion, the first sense of
shock passed away, and was succeeded by a
most gentle, tender feeling towards her,
half compassion, half-gratitude.

The fact that he had heard (if fact it
were) seemed to him a claim on all that was

best and most chivalrous in this nature. He
thought over all the past year, the time that
he had spent at the White House, ail that
he owed to both Kitty and her mother in
the way of kindness and attention. There
was something soothing in the very recollection
of that quiet household ; the thought
of Kitty was to him less a reality than a
personification of domestic calm.

Sir Eustace went into the drawing-room,
where the whole party generally sat in the
evening. It was almost dark, but in a large
chair near the big terra-cotta stove he saw
some one seated whom he took for his sister.

Alice !' he exclaimed, going up to her.

The figure gave a little start.

It is not Alice,' said Kittens voice. ' It
is only me.'

But where is Alice % Has she left you
alone ?'

Alice is gone upstairs to see Madame di
St. Isidoro ; she has been there for about
half an hour.'

*■ Did she know that you were here X

Oh yes. I begged her not to wait for me.'

And they have brought no lamps, or tea,
or anything you want '?'

Oh, pray do not send for the lamps ; I
like it, indeed I like it !' exclaimed Kitty.

And something in the sound of her voice
gave rise to a sudden suspicion in Eustace's
mind that she had been crying.

He felt very tenderly towards her ; his
mother's words had taken deeper root than
he had at all believed ; he was astonished
himself to perceive how sweet the thought
was to him of being loved by any creature
so gentle and humble.

You are too young, and should be too
happy, to care for the twilight,' he said

VOL. II. 31

gently. ' It is only those who have sad
memories who love the twilight, people
whose sorrows have passed and turned into
memories, not those who have living troubles
and living joys.'

I think one can hardly be too young to
have sorrowful thoughts,' said Kitty.

You ought not to have them.'

I ought not to indulge them, at all
events,' she said, sitting upright and trying
to smile. ' Mamma would say it was nonsense.*


Don't go,' he said, a sudden wish to try
and put his mother's words to the proof
coming over him irresistibly. ' Do you
know, it makes me sad to hear that you are
sad ; you are so young, and should be so
happy and bright. Tragedy should not
touch the flowers ; it is enough that it blasts
the trees.'

Tragedy is a large word,' she said.

There are lesser words that fit me.*

Poor little thing I' he said tenderly.

Do not pity me said Kitty suddenly.

I cannot bear it, that you, for whom I
have felt such sympathy in your own great
trial, should even think of my small
troubles !'

At another time this allusion might have
wounded or angered him ; at this moment,
in the quiet twilight, the sound of the level
musical voice was wonderfully soothing,
and melted him into a strange tenderness.


Your sympathy is precious to me,' he
said quietly.

And some day — some day,' she said
wistfully, ' will you not be comforted ? Do
you remember what Ursel said — " The grass

grows over the graves " ?'

r,l— 2

I comforted ?' he exclaimed, with a bitter
laugh. ' It is not comfort I want. Who
can build up shattered f[iith ?'

God,' said Kitty reverently. ^ Faith
could not have been shattered unless it had
been attached to an idol.'

You are very wise, little Kitty 1' he said,
unconsciously using her pet name. ' You area
good and true woman. Going through the
world trying to heal all wounded things, that
is a very sweet and useful vocation in life.' .

I wish I could help you,' she said very
earnestly.

Then he stopped himself suddenly. He
had no right to speak to her like this — it
was selfish, it might even (if his mothers
words were true) be very cruel. He knew
he had not done or said anything to win
her heart before ; he must not begin now.

Two days afterwards he left Santa Chiara

and returned to England. Business called
for his presence, and his leave was over.
He was thankful to go, to get back into
active life, and to endeavour to shake off
the thoughts that pressed upon him like a
nightmare. He was determined to shake
them off. He was tired of suffering; it should
be eradicated, or at all events trampled out
of his life. Force and vigour seemed to
follow the very determination.

Eustace reached London in the midst of
a yellow fog. One of the clear sherry -
coloured fogs, comparatively easy to go
about the streets, but necessitating gas and
lamps in the houses.

He drove straight to Eaton Square, to his
sister's house, fancying that he was sure to
find her at home on such a day. But he was
mistaken, she had not come in, and he was
received with rapture by little Muriel.

To be received by his small niece was
just what suited him best — he could make
her tell him all sorts of things that he
would not have the courage to ask. He
stood on the big bearskin rug warming
himself, while she sat at his feet hugging
her doll.

You have been away years, and years,
and years, Uncle Eu,' said Muriel solemnly.
I don't know how I shall ever find time to
tell you everything. Mamma is quite well,
papa is quite well ; Miss Lingered also is
quite well, and she has two new teeth which
grew in a night — beauties. You did not
ask, but of course you want to know.'

When will your mamma come home X

Oh, any moment ; we shall have tea
directly. Would you like a muffin for tea?'

Very much ; there are no muffins in
Italy.'

I went to see Uncle Austen's beast at
the Zoo, yesterday, again — for the third
time.'

Has he a beast *?'

Yes, and it is placed under my special
care. I always think of the old curmudgeon
when I see it, because it was after seeing it
I went and scolded him.'

Who r

The venerable old person — Cousin
Ralph.'

Ah I how is he ?'

I heard Uncle Austen tell mamma, worse
than ever.'

Ah ! and Marion ?'

I never see her now ; she is always busy,
and Cousin Ralph hates me. It is like a
grown-up person to be hated, is it not ?'

Why does he hate you ?'

Because I heard Uncle Austen tell

mamma how unkind he was to May, and I
told him so

You are a brave little woman !'

So papa said. I am glad you think so,
too ; but it will be all right soon.'

How can it be all right ?' said Eustace
bitterly.

Because Uncle Austen will take care of
May. He always takes care of everyone ;
and besides But I must not say that.'

Besides what, little woman 1'

'Nurse said Uncle Austen was going
to marry May ; but mamma said it was
gossip, and she does not wish me to grow
up a gossiping old washerwoman ; but I
did not mind much, because papa promised
me at once that I should have all his washing
to do.'

Is May well ?'

I suppose so. 1 heard papa say that he

thought she had quite got over it ; so I
thought she must have had the mumps like
Ann the housemaid, or broken her leg like
you. How is your poor, poor foot ?'

*Much better, dear. So papa thought
she had got quite over it.'

Aren't you glad, Uncle Eu ? You don't
look quite glad ; but if it were either
mumps or a broken foot, it must have hurt
very much.'

I am very glad.'

Then you ought to look glad. Your
hair wants cutting. Uncle Eu.'

You are quite right, Muriel. I did not
like to trust it to an Italian barber.'

You must have it done soon, Uncle Eu,
or you won't be fit to be seen. There is
mamma !'

Gerty flew into the room ; she had heard
of his arrival downstairs.

My clear, dear, darling, precious old
fellow ! this is too good to be true. You
stay here ?'

To-night, if you will have me ; tomorrow
I must go home, and join again
on Thursday.'

I am longing for news. In the first
place, what about Georgie and Joe ?'

They are at Naples, going to make a J
little stay there before returning home.'

'And Alice says that Georgie has quite
come to her senses.'

Oh yes; she found out good little Joe's
merits before the marriage.'

I am so glad !' with a quick little sigh of
relief.

And the dear beloved Brown-clifford —
do tell me all about them ! I was so glad
that they went out after alL How does
the Begum get on in " foreign parts" ?'

Gerty's voice and way of speaking dispersed
the tragical element that had lately
enveloped them all ; and Eustace saw again
his kind friend and nurse purring over
him.

She is all right,' he answered, smiling.
But her life is a gigantic self-sacrifice — no
cats, no comforts ; and she hates art, architecture,
and music, without which three
amenities Santa Chiara is only a very dirty
foreign town.'

The sacrifice was too great ! And my
dear sweet little Kitty, with her lovely
eyes, how about her ?'

I suppose she is all right.'

Alice said she had not been well ; but
Alice's letters are most unsatisfactory. She
never tells me any of the commonplace
details in which my soul delights ; but goes
ofi" into wild rhapsodies over this wonderful

Ursel, who seems to have turned all your
heads.'

He is wonderful,' said Eustace eagerly.

So I imagined. Now, Eu, to business.
Tom and I are going to the play to-night —
will you come ?'

I should like it of all things — what
play

" Caste." '

And how about the fog ?'

Oh, it is nothing — a very clear fog. It
is rather becoming than otherwise. It
makes one look like a Vandyke with several
coats of deep yellow varnish, and the golden
glow of antiquity enriching one's complexion.
How is your foot X

I am a little lame still, bat nothing to
speak of; it is wonderfully better than it
was.'

I can't say much for your looks.'

What is amiss ?'

Cadaverous — hollow-eyed

What a flattering description !'

If you don't fatten up soon, I shall prescribe
all the new inventions. " Kevalento
Arabica," "Koumiss" — every species of
Brand. Oh, Muriel, Muriel ! isn't it nice to
have Uncle Eu back % Come, race me upstairs
; I must put on my new gown.'

And away she ran, while Eustace proceeded
to investigate into the whereabouts
of his portmanteau.

Miss Marty BROWN-clifford

was terribly dull at the White
House — so dull that it seemed
to her as if the days would never come
to an end. She used to go and see Gwendoline,
coming in and sitting down without
even the ceremony of ' Good-morning.'

It was this lack of ceremony that made
such intercourse possible ; for if Gwendoline
were busy she never scrupled to say so,
even if Miss Matty's quick tact had not
instantly discovered it. Gwendoline had

become very fond of the funny, impulsive,
quaint little woman, and she made a pleasant
break in her monotonous and often
suffering life.

Only just in time to make up your fire,
my dear Miss Matty observed one morning
when she had, as she called it, ' popped in.'
Is your papa out ?'

Papa is gone to a meeting at Raignton.
Do you want him ?'

Not at all ; I want you. Are you
busy X

Not if you really want me. What I am
doing can wait.'

I don't often interrupt you, but I must
do so to-day. I have had a letter from my
sister which troubles me.'

Nothing wrong at Santa Chiara, I hope ?'
Gwendoline asked quickly. She was easily
startled.

Nothing wrong with your people ; I am
not so happy about mine. But there, read
it for yourself;' and she handed her an
uncomfortable-looking letter on very thin
foreign paper.

What a number of women there are in
the world !' exclaimed Miss Matty in a kind
of soliloquy, quite aware that Gwendoline
was not listening to her. ' It must be
refreshing to get away to one's regiment
sometimes ; not but what women are excellent
in their way, but their code of honouris
defective. In a hand-to-hand scuffle they
oppose, not three to one, but half a dozen
to one. He has not a chance !'

Who has not a chance ?' said Gwendoline.


I was indulging in an exceedingly bad
habit — that of thinking aloud.'

This letter does make one rather unhappy

said Gwendoline thoughtfully ; and
she slowly read it through again :

My dear Matty,

Bread and milk won't do ; it never
did agree with Margery Daw, so it is not
unlikely to disagree with her daughter.
Mince the fish very fine. They may have
cream ; but do, I entreat you, see that
Burrows does mince the fish for Margery
Daw. He was very careless about it once.
I hope they have exercise enough. My
only consolation in being away from themis
that you are there ; and besides the
feeling of gratitude I have to you for your
care of them, I feel that they are some
compensation to you for our absence.'

Ugh I' said Miss Matty ; ' she may well
talk of gratitude ! She little knows how
they make me creep. I can hardly sit in

VOL. II. 32

the room with them sometimes. If they
only had good, honest sounding, heavy
treads like decent animals, I should not
mind so much.' She was reading over
Gwendoline's shoulder.

You ask me how our foreign expedition
has turned out. Very badly — there ; but
what can you expect ? I have had much
experience, and the fruit of my experience
is this — never follow anybody's advice except
your own. Mr. St. Aubyn has been very
mistaken.'

Goodness me !' cried Miss Matty ; ' I
forgot that sentence altogether, or I never
would have given you the letter.'

Never mind,' said Gwendoline ; * it does
not matter in the least.'

You are sure you are not angry ?' laying
her hand anxiously upon her shoulder.

Not at all, it never entered my head to
mind. Let me go on.'

'The fact is, my dear Matty, we have
bungled the whole thing ; and I don't know
what Mr. Brown-clifford would have said if
he could have known how badly we have
managed. Other people manage troops
of daughters ; we have only one, and we
have not managed her affairs satisfactorily.
By-the-bye, while I think of it, don't let the
kitten eat flies ; they soon acquire the habit,
and it is difficult to break them off afterwards.
She is not handsome like her mother,
so it is all the more important that she
should be well trained. Kitty has been
constantly with the Bellinghamss. Eustace
is neither bad-looking nor disagreeable ; he
is excessively handsome and has charming
manners, a good heart and a great sorrow.
Can you imagine a more attractive 



tion to a girl who has little beauty, no
manner, a tender heart, and a soul overflowing
with sympathy ? Bears-grease is
better than macassar oil for their coats ;
but Burrows should use it sparingly. Tell
him the best comes from Winter's, and he
must be certain to get the blue pots with a
bear printed on them ; no other is genuine.
And their coats are very important ; every
time they are washed it must be gently
rubbed in. You must excuse my digressions.
I write as the things I want to say
come into my head. I suppose it will end
in a marriage. I would not hear of it, or
encourage it in any way, in spite of all the
Bellingham woman says.'

Oh, dear!' cried Miss Matty again, in
an agony. ' I am too foolish, too careless.
I ought not to have shown you the letter.'

Gwendoline smiled, and read on.

If it were not that I think Kitty will
never care for anybody else now — he has
never paid her any attention. I feel that
absolutely no blame can attach to him ; it
is the result of circumstances, and my owen
utterly foolish disregard of precautions.
He has gone back to England, and a good
thing too ; it will give us time to breathe,
for I sit and gasp sometimes for ten minutes
at a time when I think of the muddle we
have all got into. Margery Daw may have
a little sulphuret much — just from time
to time. She takes it on a little bit of bacon
nicely folded up. I say it will end in their
marrying, for he is very fond of her in a
sort of way ; and when Miss Austen is
married it will settle his mind. But I
don't know how it will all end, I am sure.
All the adoration will be on her side ; if it is
enough to keep her happy, I shan't mind.

It can't be helped now, and we must make
the best of it.

Your affectionate sister,

*May Brown-Clifford.'

Poor little Kitty T said Gwendoline
sadly. ' One wishes it were different ; they
might be so very happy.'

Miss Matty shook her head. 'I do not see
how they can ever be very happy,' she said,
if they marry in this unsatisfactory way.
However, it can't be helped ; lots of people
go comfortably through the world without
ever having known the best.'

Eustace is at Castleford ; he came last
night.'

Is he ? I should like to see him.'

He is sure to go to the White House if
he has time ; he is very grateful to you for
all you did for him.'

Miss Matty rose and shook her curls.

I shall go back,' she said, ' and stay
there all day, on the chance of his coming.
Besides, I must write for the bears
and the sulphur for those horrible
animals.'

Eustace does not share your horror of
them.'

No ; he likes to have them on his
shoulders, and round his neck, and pawing
his face — pah ! It will quite refresh them
to see him.'

And you really must go V

Yes ; you had better tell your papa all
the contents of that letter. It will be a
lesson to him.'

Poor papa !' said Gwendoline. ' No ; I
shan't torment him like that. You are
very unkind to suggest it.'

I should like — I should like '

Well, dear V

I should like to take the biggest of my
sister's cats and King it at somebody's
bead.'

Not mine, I hope V

Not a real person, a metaphorical one ;
not to hurt them, but to relieve me.'

And the cat V

Oh, the cat ! I should not care if the
cat did mind.'

Well, I hope you will be in a more
Christian frame of mind the next time I
see you. Good-bye.'

Good-bye.'

Miss Marty's words were half
joking, but her feelings were
very unhappy, and when she
reached home she could settle to nothing.
She tried one occupation after another, but
did all so badly that she was forced to put
them impatiently aside, and take up a book
instead.

Her ears were continually on the
alert, expecting Eustace to come ; and as
the hours went on, and morning and afternoon
passed without any sign from him,

she became plaintive and almost disposed to
be tearful.

She had her solitary tea brought to herby
the solemn butler, who had lived long-enough
in the family to feel justified in
making an occasional remark.

I don't feel quite to say happy about
Margery Daw, ma'am.'

What r exclaimed Miss Matty, really
startled.

Not her health, ma'am, but her disposition.'


Oh, that is all !' said Miss Matty, relieved.


She is discontented and peevish, and
don't seem to care for anything.'

Well, what can I do V
I think if you were to nurse her more,
ma'am ; she misses the ladies.'

Here, give her to me !' cried Miss Matty

in a tone of resign-nation, and with an effort
conquering her aversion, as Burrows lifted
the cat on to her knee.

Hfe said afterwards :

I made a pretence to persuade Miss
Matty to nurse the cat ; she looked so
lonely, poor lady, and down-like, and I
know our ladies always do find comfort in
cats and such-likes

It was good for Miss Matty's temper and
highly to her credit that she did not pinch
Margery Daw.

At half-past six, ten minutes after the
post had gone out, Eustace Bellingham came
in.

How are you, Miss Matty ?' he said
heartily. ' 1 am off to London by the first
train tomorrow, but I could not go without
just looking in on you for a few minutes.
Halloa, pussies ! come along.'

Here, take them all — all, my dear.'

It must be very dull for you here all

alone, Miss Matty. Don't you miss them

all dreadfully V
I have the cats.'
True ; but don't they keep you always

in a condition of creep) ? 1 have not forgotten
your feelings.'

Never mind me. How did you leave

my sister and Kitty V

Well. That is, Mrs. Clifford was very

well ; my mother did not think Miss

Clifford looking well.'

Why don't you stay a little longer V
My leave is up, and I want to make the

most of my time now. I have sent in my

papers.'

What I leave the Guards V

^ Yes, even so. 1 can't afford it.'

But you are not going to be idle, I

hope. I have a better opinion of you than
that;

No, not idle ; I shall be one of the unemployed
at first, but I shall find work.'

What kind ?'

Anything' I can get — a secretaryship,
perhaps ; or something in the City, that
would be best.'

Miss Matty looked thoughtful. ' I daresay
you are right,' she said. ' But it seems
a pity to give up your profession.'

Eustace smiled rather painfully. ' Necessity
has no master,' he said.

Why don't you marry my niece, and
settle comfortably at Castleford?' said Miss
Matty.

Her own words — spoken in so sudden an
impulse that she said afterwards that it
was something, not herself, that made use
of her tongue — startled both her and her

hearer. The colour came and went in his
face ; he looked up as if he hardly understood
her.

I beg your pardon,' she said hastily ;
bat I did not mean to say it — it came.
But now it is out, I will go on. I have
thought the matter over dispassionately,
and the conclusion I have come to is, that
there is nothing else to be done.'

Miss Matty, you certainly do me too
much honour,' he began stiffly, ' in supposing
that such a thing should be possible.'

My dear boy,' she said, * perhaps the
idea is more new to you than to me. Your
mother has long wished it. Now don't
look fierce, if you please.'

He could not help) smiling, in spite of
himself. She looked so funny leaning forward
with her little wiry hands clasped,
and her gray curls bobbing up and down.

I wish yoQ would,' she said plaintively.
YoQ have no idea what a child she is ; she
is so good, so sweet and gentle, and not at all
the nonentity you all imagine her,' suddenly
firing up. ' She is full of imagination, and
strength, and courage. I never saw the girl
yet who could equal her.'

Anyone would be fortunate who was a
friend of yours. Miss Matty,' said Eustace,
smiling.

Now don't talk commonplaces, but
listen to me. Your sisters look upon her
as a dear little ignoramus, to he petted ; but
as to moral courage, look how she volunteered
to slay that bluebottle ! I have
plenty of courage, but I yield the palm to
Kitty. She is very shy, but we have
brought her up very badly, as anyone with
half an eye could see. You must discriminate,
and then you will see what is natural

and what is the fault of education. I don't

mean to compare her to — to '

Xo, no ; don't make comparisons !' cried
Eustace hastily.

I was not going to do so ; didn't you
hear me say I did not mean to compare ?
Then forgive me ; my temper has got quite
soured by solitude and those beasts of cats,
and I am learning to scratch and spit like
them.'

You must be very lonely,' said Eustace,
willing to change the conversation.

Nobody ought to feel lonely. I should
not, if I had the gift of holding my tongue,
for I have plenty to occupy my thoughts ;
but I am always nearly bursting to express
them.'

'That is a misfortune.'

So you don't see your way to it ?'

To what ?'

To marrying Kitty.'

My dear Miss Matty '

But she stopped him, and jutting her
finger on his wrist, she began to speak.
She put before him, in well-chosen spirited
language, all the advantages that the
scheme held. She drew a most fascinating
picture of her niece, with so much heart and
feeling that the tears rushed into her eyes.
In the light in which she placed it, it
seemed as if there were only one right
course to take ; that plain duty pointed it out,
and that it would be cowardly not to yield.

When she had finished, the old inveterate
habit of talking to herself came out, and
leaning back in her chair, Eustace heard
her say quite loud : ' Well done, Matty!'

He could not help it, the circumstance
struck him with its ludicrous side, and he
burst out lauo^hino;.

VOL. ir. 33

Miss Matty looked at him at first with
unfeigned amazement, not quite certain
whether she ought to be offended or not ;
the stru":2:le in her face was so evident that
Eustace's laughter almost overpowered him,
and Miss Matty was obliged to give it up
and laugh also.

'I don't see what there is to laugh at,'
she said suddenly, pulling herself up. ' It
is a very serious matter.'

^ So serious that we won't say any more
about it, Aunt Matty,' said Eustace ; and
though he spoke playfully, something in
the tone of his voice made her see that it
would not do to pursue the subject further.

He got up to go presently, and she
parted with him rather wistfully.

You are not angry with me ?' she said,
and she looked so small and woe-begone
that he was quite touched.

Angry ! How could I ever be angry
with you?' he said very kindly. ' No, no ;
you may say anything and everything you
like to me, anywhere and everywhere.'

Done !' she exclaimed joyfully.

Good-bye, dear Miss Matty!' and he was
gone.

Miss Matty looked after him for a moment,
and then turned indoors.

He hasn't a chance, poor boy 1' she said.

Then her sentimental mood was dispersed
by a qualm of terror. Margery
Daw had bolted a piece of sugar which
had been overlooked on the hearth-rug, and
was in all the horrors of a long sustained
and perfectly silent choke. A shriek —
violent ringing for professional assistance.

Dinner-time found Miss Matty prostrate
after so many and conflicting emotions,
without courage, and without appetite.

g^USTACE lay awake all that night
thinking, and when he went upto
London the next day his mind
was still in a whirl of doubt and perplexity.
The constant dropping of water will wear
away a very stone ; and the constant
reiteration of one idea will have much the
same effect on the human mind.

He began to get used to the idea of
marrying Kitty, began to fancy her at
Castleford, and to see visions and make plans
with a vicar to that possibility. He dreaded
the loss of his profession much ; but as

matters stood now there was no alternative.
He could not rest, and at last one day he
resolved to make up his mind one way or
another before night.

He went up to London from Windsor
where he still was, and drove to Gerty's
house. She was just going out, bat he
stopped her actually in the hall, and instead
of going upstairs drew her into the
dining-room.

Gerty,' he said hoarsely, ' tell me the
honest truth. I must know it. Is May
going to marry your brother-inlaw or
not ?'

I can't tell you, Eustace,' said Gerty, in
real distress. ' I cannot tell you, because
I don't know.'

You would not deceive me, Gerty,
would you ?'

^ Indeed — indeed, darling, I would not !

I can only repeat the same thing. I don't
know. He cares for her as much — as
much as you do!'

Eustace made an impatient gesture.

And some day, I cannot help thinking
'

I see he said bitterly, ' you are only
trying to soften it off. Well, I have no
doubt that it is the best possible thing that
can happen under the circumstances.*

Gerty did not answer.

Don't let me keep you,' he said, ' as
you are going out.'

She nodded. She had an engagement
that could not be put off, but she was very
unwilling to leave him.

He went upstairs and found Muriel, broke
all the laws of the Modes and Persians by
taking her away from her governess, and
brought her downstairs.

Come, my little washerwoman,' he said;
I want you to gossip, if you please.'

But mamma said not.'

Never mind mamma for once. When
mamma was a little girl she had to do as
I told her.'

^ Not really?'

Yes, really. Have you seen the curmudgeon
lately?'

Yes; he and May came here yesterday.'

Was anybody else here ?'

No ; only Uncle Austen. They stayed
a very long time, and May sang!'

What did she sing ?'

Oh, some language nobody could understand.
The curmudgeon did not like it,
and said her voice was weak; but it wasn't
it roared through the whole room.'

Eustace laughed at the unpoetical description.


Will you tell your mamma,' he said,
that I am going to Santa Chiara almost
immediately?'

Oh dear ! and I thought you would
stay always, now.'

No ; tell her that, and that she shall
soon know the reason why. Would you
like to come out with me now?'

Yes, if you will take me to see Uncle
Austen's beast.'

No, Muriel ; we will see the Japanese
Village instead. I can't tell you why, but
I perfectly hate that beast.'

^ Hate that darling, darling beast ! Ob,
you are not good — to hate is very wicked!'

Should you not like the Japanese Village?
There are dear little Japanese babies
with little slits for eyes, running up sideways
in their heads, and the dearest little
pigtails in the world.'

^ I will put on my hat said Muriel.

That evening Muriel told her mamma
first of all the message her uncle had
sent, and then the other speech he had
made.

^ If Uncle Eu lives to be old, he will
never be a venerable old gentleman,' she
said. ' He is far more likely to be an un-venerable
old ruffian if he hates innocent
beasts like Uncle Austen's!'

Eustace Bellingham's resignation was
accepted, not without many remonstrances,
and he found himself, for the first time in
his life, an idle man. The blank of the few
days that followed was very hard to bear.
Everything in the world that he cared for
seemed to be slipping from him. He put
Castleford into the hands of the letting
agents ; he sold his horses ; and then the
weary blank question offered itself to his

inind, Where should he go? — what should
he do next?

Although he had sent that message to
his sister through Muriel, he had by no
means made up his mind. The alternative
of going back to Santa Chiara
and offering himself to Kitty was still
an alternative, though ever' day seemed
to make it more likely that so it would
end.

At last he started, acting on a sort of
impulse almost as suddenly as if it had not
been before his mind for weeks; and in a
few days he found himself once more in
the picturesque Italian town.

It was spring now, a glorious spring —
the sky that exquisite blue that we rarely
see in England before midsummer ; and
all the country was brilliant with scarlet
and purple anemones and exquisite little

yellow and crimson and white striped
Daniell tulips.

Instead of going to Palazzo St. Isidoro,
an impulse led Eustace to seek out Ursel
first.

He found the house with the painted
loggia full of people. Assunta was entertaining
her friends. They were seated in
gay groups round the little iron tables,
drinking: coffee and making a noise such as
three times the same number of English
could hardly-have equalled.

Eustace did not go in. He was moving
away when a hand was laid on his shoulder,
and turning round, he saw Ursel looking at
him With a beaming look of welcome and
affection.

'You have come back!' he exclaimed.
I am indeed rejoiced ; and to stay, is it
not so ? Come with me down into the

olive-yards ; there will be peace there. My
house is swarming like a hive.'

He took Eustace's arm, and they wandered
off the road down grass - paths,
between the young spring corn and twisted
olive-trees.

My friend, my friend I' he exclaimed,
I am glad to see you. I thought you had
gone away — away into the big ocean of
work and unrest, and that, unless I followed
you thither, I should perhaps never see you

again.

No, no ! you see, that same ocean of
which sou speak has cast me ashore as
mere driftwood.'

Patience ! the driftwood has also its work
to do. Not that I acknowledge the comparison,
my friend. No, no I how have you
fared ?'

'T have given up my profession.'

That is bad ; it is a misfortune to restless
beings like yourself to have no career. You
must make a new one.'

That is not so easy.'

No ; food is tasteless and distasteful
without salt, and life without interests is to
be without salt. You must do something.'

Perhaps I may marry.'

That would not be a bad idea. The experiment
is worth trying.'

But experiments sometimes fail.'
Ursel laughed lightly.

Against such failure you and your
friends should guard by common-sense in
the selection. I need not mention more
than a few points. She must be pretty, of
sour own world, not unintelligent, amiable,
not clever, and with a reasonable dower.'

You would allow your friends some
choice in the matter ?'

Assuredly ; does not your future affect
them almost as much as yourself? and with
your interest at heart their judgment will
be calm-judging and wise.'

I believe you are right, Ursel,' said
Eustace, looking at Ursel' s earnest face.

They talked on about one subject after
another, sitting on a fallen tree in the sunny
olive-yards. The air was full of sweet
odours ; the larks were singing passionately
overhead, bright-eyed lizards glided across
the grass at their feet.

Eustace felt soothed and calmed. As he
rose to take leave and go homewards, he
passed Ursel's house just as a ringing laugh
burst out, and he recognised the shrill
joyousness of his friend's young wife.

He thought as he turned into the hot
road glaring with white dust :

^ It is curious ; one imagines that all men

go through the same experience, but how
different it is! Ursel, in his unreal world
of art, goes through experiences which even
my imagination fails to understand ; but of
love he knows nothing — it is a sealed book
to him.'

Everyone was out when Eustace
reached the Palazzo St.
Isidore. He had not told them

he was coming, and did not expect to find

them. He ordered his room, and went

upstairs to the salons.

The rooms were full of flowers. Alice

used to bring them in almost in armfuls ;

she revelled in their beauty and quantity.

On a marble table near the window stood

a majolica vase filled with exquisite white

irises.

Eustace was bending down over them
admiring them, when he heard voices outside
; a young, fresh, clear voice speaking
in very pure Italian to the servant.

1 will go in, Mario,' it said, ' and write a
few lines to your signorina, which please
give her at once when she comes in.'

Then the door opened, and in came Kitty
Clifford. She did not see that anyone was
in the room, but came in holding up the
white tunic of her gown which was quite
filled with flowers. Her gown was pure
white, but she had a pale pink silk handkerchief
knotted round her throat, and the
gentle wind had been playing through her
hair and ruffled its smoothness into little
golden ripples.

Eustace had never thought her pretty
before, but at that moment she seemed to
him as sweet, and fair, and lovely as a child.

VOL. II. 34

He advanced to meet her. She was so
startled when she saw him that she let the
whole mass of flowers fall to the ground,
and ran forward with both hands outstretched.


You have come back ! You have come
back!' she cried childishly.

The floor was covered with iris and tulips
and flowering barbers, and other lovely
flowers.

'Did I startle you? I am so sorry,' he
exclaimed eagerly, as Kitty suddenly drew
away her hands, blushing crimson, with
the old painful rush of self-consciousness
and horror at herself for having met him
so warmly.

But it was the first impulse that dwelt
in his mind, the eager movement, the sudden
shining of the blue eyes, the unmistakable
rapture of her welcome.

She knelt down to cover her confusion,
to gather up the fallen treasures, and lie
stood watching her with strangely conflicting
feeling's. That welcome had driven
him a quick feeling of possible happiness
that might even yet come to him ; but it
was transient.

Then a sudden strong temptation came
over him to accept this little gentle heart
that was almost offered to him ; to find a
substitute for the old passionate love of his
life in this calm affection ; to let her soothe
and comfort him; to accept all, reconciling
it to his conscience that her eyes were not
closed to the truth that he had nothing to
give her in exchange.

Little Kitty he said suddenly, ' by
many kind words just now and then you
have led me to suppose that you knew my
history. Am I not right ?'

U—2

Kitty was still kneeling on one knee,
gathering up the flowers. She looked
suddenly up at him, with her cheeks still
rosy and a startled look in her eyes. She
was too frightened to do more than give a
little nod of acquiescence.

As he looked down upon her very
tenderly, very kindly, it was more like the
warm affection of an elder brother to his
little sister, than like that of a man pleading
his suit. It reassured her ; she still
looked up into his face.

In so speaking, Kitty,' he went on,
I have perhaps fancied — but I may be
wrong — that you did care for me a little —
even a very little?'

Kitty rose to her feet trembling from head
to foot, with her hands classed together.
He went on, speaking rather hoarsely now:

You know, child, that I have not that

first best love to offer you. I do not know
what has become of my love. It has left
Marion, who was not true to me, and I
think it died then ; so that I sometimes
seem to myself to have grown coal and
hard and bitter.'

Oh, no, no!' she exclaimed.

He put out his hands and took both of
hers.

'Am I too madly selfish, Kitty?' he said
earnestly, 'to think that you might comfort
me?'

She only trembled more and more.

Kitty, dear little thing,' he said, ' only
answer me this. Is it true that I have
had the privilege of winning your love?
Tell me, Kitty.'

But she could not speak.

If that is so — I do not know — it may
not be so very selfish of me after all. I

cannot tell. Little Kitty, Avon't you tell
fine V

She pave a little sigh that was almost a

soh, and she pressed his hands to her heart.

'If I might — might try to comfort you

she faltered so low, that he had to bend far

down to hear.

Then Eustace knew that his mother was
right, that wdiat she had told him was quite
true, and he stooped down and gravely
kissed the brow of his young betrothed.

I will try and make you happy, dear,' he
said.

She looked up at him with eyes shining
radiantly through a mist of tears, but no
words would come.

Presently Alice came in running joyously ;
she had been told downstairs of her brother's
arrival.

Oh, Eustace ! fancy your taking us by

surprise in this manner ! It is too, too
delightful. And how did you leave Gerty
and Tom ? and did you miss Georgie ?
Gwendoline wrote that she had not seen
you again. Dear me ! what an avalanche
of questions you will have to answer. But
what is it, darling ? Have you a headache ?
you look so dreadfully white.'

No ; I have no headache. I am all right.
See, Miss Brown Clifford wants to go.'

Kitty had begun to put on her gloves
and refasten her handkerchief.

This untidiness is entirely unlike you,
Kitty,' said Alice gaily, beginning to pick up
the flowers ; but her gaiety vanished when
f-he perceived that though Kitty tried to
answer liglith/, and as if at her ease, she
could not do it — that her colour was
coming and going in an unusual manner,
and that she was putting the flowers together

without any consideration for their
looks.

I will do it ; do not trouble yourself,
Kitty,' she said a little abruptly ; a very
cold dread beginning to steal over her.

Kitty said good-bye, and Eustace took
her to the door and sent for the maid, who
was waiting to take her home.

When he came back into the drawing-room,
Alice was standing just as he had
left her, waiting for him with a look of keen
anxiety and perplexity on her face.

He threw himself into a chair, and took
up a book. For a moment she did not
speak — a sort of instinct that her best policy
would be to be silent now, to wait for a
moment in which she could better command
her voice and the thrilling excitement Within
her. But it was too strong, she could
not resist it ; and she came swiftly ujj to

her brother, and put her hand on his
shoulder.

Eustace !* she exclamiecl. ' Oh, what
does it mean ? What is this change that
has come over you both ?'

Can you not guess ?' he answered. ^ I
should have thought that to you, at all
events, it would have been obvious !'

You have done it ! You have asked
her to marry you ?'

Yes.'

Alice uttered a little faint cry. ' Soli,
Eustace, my darling, my darling I what have
you done ?'

Let me alone!' he cried almost roughly.
But that day and for many following days,
when on every side congratulations were
pouring in, his sister's words pursued him
relentlessly', ' What have you done ? what
have you done ?'

BOUT two years had passed
after the marriage of Sb
Eustace Bellingham to Kitty
Brown-Chffbrd, and for the first time a
general gathering of the whole family was
to take place at Castleford.

These general gatherings are more often
full of pain than pleasure. It is strange
low tenaciously the human mind clings to
tradition, and even improvements seem
uncalled-for innovations, and the disappearance
of old discomforts causes the

pang of regret which every right-minded
individual must Sive to the vanished Grievance.


Gerty Austen was feeling this as she
crossed the Rectory lawn, and came into
Gwendoline's room. It was wonderful
weather, a burst of summer while as
yet it was almost spring — the beginning
of June. Summer had beofun with real
heat.

Some things, happily for us, do never
change. To some hearths we may come
back year after year, time after time, in
our constantly varying earthly pilgrimage,
and feel a restful certainty that we shall
find the sofa in the same place, the armchair,
the little table, the same old ornaments,
all the objects we have known and
loved so long, and the same sweet human
presence, unchanging year after year ;

time so imperceptibly silvering the hair,
and touching the life with gentle, loving
hand.

To such a home Gerty came — busy,
merry Gerty, living always in the full
Avhirl of life, very gay, very bright, ^•ery
useful.

To come to you is like stepping out of
the blazing sun into the most delicious,
cool, sweet shade,' she said, sitting down
on a stool by her cousin's sofa, and taking
her hand in hers.

An excellent thing to-day, \\\\ dear.
Did you ever know such heat at this time
of year V

It is pleasant to be out of town ; and
I am glad to bring Muriel away. She was
getting quite pale, and is growing fast.'

She is very pretty, Gerty.'

Yes, is not she ? I get a great many

contingents about her. I hope she won't
get spoilt. But Tom does so adore her,
and Austen spoils her also.'

You look tired, Gerty.'

I am not exactly tired,' answered Mrs.
Austen, with hesitation.

Ah ! it is the first time you have been
back under the new regime.'

Yes. You see, what with our being'
abroad so long with Tom's regiment, and
Muriel's lessons, and other hindrances, we
have never managed it ; and I have come
to you to be comforted.' And light-hearted
Gerty quickly dashed away two tears.

What is it particularly ?' said Gwendoline
anxiously. ' I have grown so used
to it all that perhaps I do not see so
plainly as you do.'

Kitty's face haunts me ; and how
pretty she has become !'

She is lovely sometimes. I always
told you she would be.'

She is not happy.'

It will mend in time. Have patience.'


^ It is getting worse.'

No, no ; why should you say that V

Because I can see it. Look at the
little strained nervous movements she
makes ; look how she watches Eustace,
and starts and listens for his step whenever
he is out of the room ; and, Gwendoline
dear, it bores him.'

Gwendoline nodded sadly.

As for Alice,' Gerty went on, ' I don't
know what has come over her. She is
unjust to Kitty ; she tries to conceal it,
but I can see how she still resents it all.'

I know. I have talked to her, but it
is of no use. She has taken it into her



head that the marriage was owiiiir to us
in a great measure ; and she says she has
tried, but she cannot get on with Kitty.'

Eustace is most kind to her. Look
at all he has done for her ! How beautiful
he has made the house ! what pains he
takes with her garden, with her rooms !
If Kitty were a commonplace character,
she would be perfectly satisfied. He is
always getting jewels for her, and different
gifts. I think he does his utmost.'

Patience,' said Gwendoline ; ' it may
yet come right. Eustace is not himself
yet. He is still bitter and cynical. I
think, Gerty, the best thing that you
could do would be to try and make them
all merry again ; to get them out of the
dull, hard, commonplace life they are leading,
and make them laugh. Tragedy hates
an honest laugh. You will be doing a

good deed. And above all, above everything,
dear Gerty, don't let Kitty put
her troubles into words.'

No ? I was really going to ask you
whether you could not persuade her to
confide in you, and give her some good
advice.'

Not for worlds !' exclaimed Gwendolen.
' I cannot imagine a greater misfortune.
Any other trouble in the world
but this one might be helped by confidence.
But to put this into words
would be to make dry bones live.'

So your remedy is laughter.'

Yes,' said Gwendoline decidedly.
Make them think more of outward
things, and be merry and young again,
and not live uj^on their feelings.'

Kitty has no fun in her.'

There you are wrong. I have known

her say the funniest, quaintest things.
She would have plenty of fun if she were
happy. Alice ought to be made to
lauoii.'

In fact, you look to me to get them
all out of their groove.'

You don't know how I have looked
forward to your coming. I even devoutly
li023ed that the Shetlands would
run away with you again.'

No ; the Shetlands have grown old and
sober. Old they always were — eighteen
and twenty, Georgie says ; but they were
wild enough for tiny colts. Now that is
all over.'

And time it should be with such
venerable personages. Now do as I
want you, Gerty ; bring a blast of fresh
air from the busy outer world, and stir up
our stagnant little Castleford pool.'

VOL. II. 35

Mrs. Brown-clifford is coming today.'


I am very glad. Kitty has seen
nothing of her. But how will sour
mother get on with her V

We shall see,' said Gerty, laughing.
atom says that Muriel will have an opportunity
of studying life. I don't think it
is very good for her.'

Send her to me when you want to get
rid of her,' said Gwendoline. ^ I delight in
having her, as you know.'

Thank you, dear ; I will. I should
like this precious room to be the haven of
rest and comfort to her that it always has
been to me. What a wonderful resuscitation
of the old red tablecloth !'

^ Ah ! you were deceived ! How
pleased Eustace would be ! the trouble he
took to match it exactly, you would not

believe. It was almost a superstitious
fancy that it must be a facsimile, and he
sent all over England after it.'

What killed the old one V

^ It died a natural death of venerable
old age, and I got a nice new brown one
with a fringe, which offended all the
family, and caused the fuss.'

When Gerty went away, her heart was
lighter than it had been before her visit.
She thought Gwendoline's advice good,
and she tried to persuade herself that it contained
a panacea for all the family troubles.

The weather was so hot that no one
could rest indoors, and occupations of all
sorts were taken out to the comfortable
lounging-chairs under great elm-trees, or
the cool white and scarlet striped tents
overlooking the lawn-tennis ground.

The aspect of the place had changed ; it

35—2

looked prosperous and well cared-for ; the
order was perfect, the gardens laid outwith
great skill and beauty. All through
the village, and throughout Castleford,
the same thoughtful care showed itself, in
the rebuilding of cottages, agricultural
improvements, and new schools, and most
careful and beautiful restoration of the
fine old church.

Eustace certainly did his duty as a landlord.
The house itself was so completely
refurnished and transformed, that Eustace
was obliged to search the lumber-rooms
for old-forgotten chairs or tables when he
wanted them. Even then the search was
often useless, for vanished things have a
strange knack of disap^^ earing, withdrawing
their unappreciated existences from
the scene of their former triumphs.

Some such search had been going on

all the morning. Eustace, hot, flushed, and
impatient, came into the tent in which
reposed in calm coolness his mother, his
wife, and both his sisters. .

I can't find it, Alice,' he said. ' It is
the strangest thing. A big bureau like
that does not vanish into thin air ; but
with all this topsy-turning of all the traditions
of one's childhood one never can
lay one's hands on anything.'

Kitty looked up with a quick, wistful
look. The transformation was not her
doing. Eustace had seemed to make it
his chief amusement, and to take more
interest in renovating the old home than
in anything else. She fancied so, at all
events ; but an odd feeling was present
with her that when anything was missing
it was her fault, and that they all thought
so.

Have you tried the big cupboard
under the back-stairs, Eustace V she said.

Yes ; but there is no getting into it :
it is all choked up with huge trunks.'

I will have them moved.'

Shall I go and have it done ?' said
Alice, springing up. ' Come, Eu.'

Too much trouble,' he answered, flinging
himself full-length on the grass.
After all, if one does find the old thing,
it won't be of much use.'

It was so worm-eaten,' said Kitty.

It is old Chippendale,' said Alice.
And after all, its value to us was not its
merits, but its associations. If you can
find it, Eustace, you will let me have it V

^ Of course. Anything in the drawers V

A quantity of letters.'

No,' said Kitty quietly. ' I took all
the letters out.'

You took them out 1' exclaimed Alice,
almost indignantly. ' Did you know what
they were V

I knew Miss Austen's handwriting,'
answered Kitty. ^ I thought they should
not be left in an open bureau. I placed
them in a safe place.'

You did not read them ?'

Kitty mastered the indignation which
brought the colour flushing into her
cheeks, and answered simply, ' They were
not addressed to me.'

^ Thank you for taking care of them,
Kitty,' said Eustace. ' You see, Alice,
your treasures were safer than you deserved.'


^ I would rather have had them restored
to me at once,' said Alice.

I am sorry ; but I put them in a ,
and quite forgot them,' said

Kitty. ^ Shall I go and fetch them for
you now V

'It is too hot said Lady Bellingham.
Besides, your mother will arrive in ten
minutes, Kitty ; you cannot go till she
has come.'

Very well.'

Kitty leant back in her chair and resumed
the knitting that was never out of
her hands. It was a habit that peculiarly
irritated her husband. It was like her
mother ; it made him fancy that she would
grow into the counterpart of that excellent
lady. Kitty sometimes perceived
this irritation. Sometimes she would very
gladly have given it up, but she could not
do without it ; it was the one relief to the
constant feeling of nerve-strain in which
she passed her life. She had altered a
good deal ; immensely improved in looks

by the new perfection of her dress, carefully
studied by a clever maid, who
knew the colours that improved her pure
white colouring and blue eyes, and the
coiffure that suited her soft hair.
Strangers always thought the delicate
oval face and slender figure, which moved
with a kind of simple dignity, exceedingly
attractive at first sight ; but poor little
Kitty had been trained too long in timidity
and self-consciousness. She had
nothing to say for herself; her conversation
was limited to gentle acquiescence
with all that was said. If she had opinions,
they were never advanced. Kitty resembled
one of those white delicate 
buds which come out too soon,
and for lack of the rich summer sun never
unfold their petals.

And from whence was the sun to come

that would ripen Kitty ? The reflection
of it had passed over her. For a short
time a glorious dream of what that sunshine
might be, that great sacred, holy
love, protecting, comforting, and sufficing,
that encircles the happy wife, had appeared
to her, a glimpse so bright that it
seemed to her that it Avould have been
better not to have known it, even in a
dream, if it were not for her.

Her husband was very kind to her, but
slowly it dawned ujDon her that she was
failing in the task he had assigned her —
she could not make him happy. The very
consciousness of her own failure froze up
her powers, made her diffident and shy ;
and as the long days passed on, and each
weary evening dragged out its slow length,
her keen eyes saw the fatal expression
on her husband's face of deadly ennui.

She could see his hardly repressed yawns,
would mark the toneless sound of his
voice and step ; and when she found herself
alone she would ask God passionately
on her knees to let her die — only to let
her die and set him free again.

It was far worse for her than for
Eustace. He had expected so little that
he was not disappointed ; but she had
fondly hoped that her very love would
make up to him for all else.

After a time Kitty tried a new resource :
she filled the house with his friends ; she
persuaded his mother and sisters to come
often and stay long. Alice in especial she
entreated to stay with them ; and yet
Alice was not kind to her. She did not
understand her ; she had no idea that
beneath that exterior of gentle, wistful
dignity lay hidden such passionate suffering.

She could not forgive the marriage,
or reconcile herself to it ; she made no
effort to love her sister-in-law.

Kitty, in her self-abasement, never even
wondered at it ; it seemed natural to her
that his sister should resent her brother's
want of happiness, which she fancied was
as apparent to the outer world as it was
to herself

They were still sitting in the tent when
Mr. Mulroy came eagerly in.

Kitty, Kitty !' he exclaimed ; ' your
mother's carriage is in sight !'

^ Do pull down the curtain, Joe,' said
Georgie, looking up from her novel ; ' the
light is so strong.'

Will you not come to the door,
Kitty ?' said Mr. Mulroy, obeying his
wife. ' It will do her very heart good to
see you waiting for her there.'

Kitty looked up with a grateful smile,
and rose.

How near is the carriage V said
Eustace lazily.

Turning up the avenue.'

Then I will allow myself another three
minutes, and follow you.'

Kitty did not wait ; she left the tent
and went towards the house. Her step,
eager at first, slackened ; she was very
pale.

How long is it since you last saw
your mother ?' said Mr. Mulroy very
kindly.

It is nearly a year. She seemed to
take such a fancy to Richmond that I
could not get her to move.'

And you have not been to see her ?'

Kitty looked up at the kind face beside
her. ' Mamma has strange ideas,' she

said. ' She thought young couples should
learn to do without their parents. She
would not have me ;' and Kitty laughed.

There is a foundation of great wisdom
in that,' said Joe Mulroy.

And I suppose mothers are supposed
to be fanciful,' said Kitty. ' It seemed a
long time to me.'

^ It must have been interminable to
her.'

His words went to her heart with a
warm glow of gratitude. They stood on
the hall-door steps now, and the carriage
was close by. Kitty held out her arms
with a little cry as it drove up.

There was the placid puss-like face,
animated to a degree she had never seen
before. In a moment she was in the hall
with Kitty clinging round her neck, gasping,
almost sobbing with delight.

Hoity toity !' said Mrs. Brown-Clifford,
sinking into a chair, and surveying her
daughter ; but Kitty threw her arms
round her assail, and devoured her with
kisses.

Oh, mamma ! dear mamma ! to have
you again ! It is too delightful !'

But Mrs. Brown Clifford was a shrewd
woman ; she knew that she had never inspired
so much love in her daughter s
breast. So at first it astonished her, and
then sent a thrill of painful suspicion
through her mind.

Hoity toity 1' she said first, and then :
And now, my dear, let me arrange my
bonnet ; I cannot present myself before
the assembled family with a bird of paradise
over my right ear.'

It is not a bird of paradise, it is a
paroquet,' said Kitty almost hysterically.

Mr. Milroy said Mrs. Brown-Clifford,
will you do uie the favour of lifting that
basket on to the chair ? It contains my cat.
And will you keep an eye on it ? It is a
large soft cat ; if anyone sits down on it, it
will go flat at once. Yes, Kitty, a paroquet
; you are quite right.'

^ There is Eustace !' exclaimed Kitty,
as her husband came quickly in.

I was too late after all !' he exclaimed.
1 hoped to have been at the door to
welcome you. I hope you are well, and
not overtired by your journey.'

I am perfectly well, except that I
have a cold, and asthma, and a bad headache,
and am blind and deaf, and dirty
and overtired by the hottest journey I
ever took in my life.'

what would you like to do? Will
you go to your room with Kitty, and rest

there until tea-time, or come out at
once ?'

Which way does my room face ?' was
the answer.

^ North said Kitty quickly. ^ I chose
it on purpose.'

Then I will go there. I am much
obliged to you, Sir Eustace.'

Dear old soul !' exclaimed Eustace,
when the ladies had gone upstairs, and
he and his brother-in-law were returning
to the tent. ^ I am very glad to see her
puss-like face again.'

I think there are many worse people
in the world than Mrs. Brown-Clifford,
answered Mr. Mulroy.

Cats and all.'

Well, Bellingham, I think you have
much to be thankful for ; look at her tact
in leaving her comfortable home because

VOL. II. 36

she thought it best not to hive too near
her daughter, and setting up in Hampstead,
or Sheen, or somewhere.'

In Richmond. Well, I am duly grateful.
It was well done.'

Has Mrs. Brown Clifford come ?' said
Lady Bellingham, raising her head as
they entered the tent together.

Yes, as large as life, and twice as hot,'
said Eustace. ' Kitty has taken her upto
her room.'

I am glad she has her mother,' said
Joseph Mulroy cordially.

^ I don't suppose anyone could care
very much for such a mother,' said Alice.

You Avould not say so if you had seen
her face, and her delight at meeting her
just now.'

One's mother is one's mother all the
world over,' said Georgie abruptly.

Eustace !' exclaimed Alice, ' will you
come in now and get Kitty to give me
those letters V

It is a shame to disturb them said
Eustace lazily.

Oh, Kitty never minds that sort of
thing ; and I want them so much. Tell
me which room you have given Mrs.
Brown-clifford, and I will go there.'

The north blue-room. Are you
going ?'

^ Yes.'

Alice walked away, half expecting hei*
brother to follow ; but he did not do so.

She crossed the lawn ; the sun was
just sinking ; it shone on a level with her
eyes under her hat in a disagreeable way.
She was glad to get indoors, though the
house itself was very hot.

What Eustace had said carried a little

36—2

weight with Alice. She did not go upstairs
at once ; she took up a book and sat
down and read for half an hour. Then she
threw it down, for it did not interest her ;
and murmuring to herself that they must
have got over their first effusions by this
time, she went upstairs to Mrs. Brown -
Clifford's room. Arrived at the door,
she knocked twice, but received no
answer ; so she pushed it open and went
in.

The sight which met her eyes made
her hesitate, and for a moment meditate
flight. By the oj^en window, in a large
armchair, with her cat on her knee, sat
Mrs. Brown-Clifford ; while on a stool at
her feet, with her face buried in her lap
against the cat's white fur, sat Kitty, her
whole slender frame shaking with uncontrollable
sobs. But even in her startled

haste Alice had not time to withdraw ;
Kitty sprang to her feet.

What is it V she asked, making
a violent effort to overcome her emotion.


I beg yom pardon said Alice. ' I
did not mean to interrupt you ; but you
did not hear my knock, and '

Did you knock ?' said Mrs. Brown-clifford.


Yes, several times. Never mind,
Kitty ; it is nothing. I do not want anything.'


What was it, dear ? Oh, I know —
those letters. If you will come to the
boudoir.'

She had dashed away her tears, and
was striving hard to stop the throbbing of
her throat.

Dear Kitty, please do not trouble

about it said Alice kindly ; but Kitty
only slipped her hand through her arm.

Let me,' she said.

They reached the boudoir. The outside
shutters were closed. The room was
full of hothouse flowers ; it was pleasantly
cool, but a fragrance pervaded it
which made Alice exclaim :

'My dear Kitty, you don't mean
to say that you let Eustace smoke
here !'

I am only too glad when he will,'
answered Kitty, with a mournful little
smile. ' The smoking-room is such a
long way ofl*, and he does not like me to
visit him out there.'

She found a key, opened a despatch-box
which stood in a corner of the room,
and handed out to Alice two bundles of
letters. Alice looked at her in astonish-merit

; one of the packets was directed to
her, the other to Eustace.

You wish me to take both ?' she said
quickly.

If you like.'

Did you see that these belong to
Eustace V

Yes ; never mind. Give them to him
if you like,' said Kitty, with no other
sign of feeling than a quiver of the lips.

No, no, dear ; keep them.'

Kitty took them quietly and replaced
them.

^ They might make him unhappy,' she
said.

^ Oh no, not now !' exclaimed Alice ;
but the sound of her voice had no true
conviction in it, and Kitty only gave a
little patient sigh.

Alice dear,' she half whispered, as they

prepared to go, ' please do not tell Eustace
that you found me crying so foolishly.'

^ Why, Kitty ?

No, no ; don't tell him 1' she repeated
vehemently. ' Promise me you won't 1'

Alice bent down and kissed her.

Very well,' she said.

)T is fun to see my mother and
my highly-respected mother-in-law
together said Eustace
to Joseph Mulroy a few days later, as
they walked about the garden after
dinner. * My mother has never found
her match yet ; and the funny thing is
that she tries to look upon Mrs. Clifford
as a nonentity, and understands her as
little as a dog or cat who pats an electric
battery with a patronizing paw.'

Your wife does not look well,' said

Joe seriously. ' Georgie does not think
so either.'

This tremendously hot spring makes
us all languid,' said Eustace, with a yawn.
^ Have you any plans for the autumn V

We shall go down to Cowes when the
House is up ; it will be good for the baby.
And Georgie fancies trying the yacht herself
this year.'

By-the-bye, that juvenile ; I neglected
my duties in not inquiring about it. Is
it all right ?'

^ Yes, thank you,' answered Joseph
Mulroy. '

Well, I thought you would answer b}^
a dissertation on its charms, and the
extraordinary likeness it was developing
to some one or other among us.'

^ I will leave that to Georgie,' he
answered, smiling.

To Georgie ? Then I think the poor
little chap will not have its due from
either of you. Georgie always professed
to hate babies

She likes them better when they become
more companionable,' said Joe hopefully.


^ Will it yacht with you T

No, no ; that would never do. I
wish you and Kitty would come down
and go with us, Eustace ; it would be
very jolly.'

^ Thanks, I should like it ; but Kitty
is a bad sailor, and I think of going to
Norway for some fishing.'

^ By yourself ?'

With Kinloch and one or two other
men. One wants to run away from one's
domestic fireside sometimes, you know.'

It was a pity you gave up the Guards.'

Well, don't talk of it. One is a fool
sometimes, and one must reap the consequences


^ You have plenty to do here ?'

Oh yes, as far as that goes, but to an
idle man time passes heavily.'

Joe Mulroy sighed,

Why not go into Parliament ?' he said.
I have been so glad that Georgie made
me stand.'

^ I should be bored to death by seven
or eight months of the year in London.
We have done the season regularly since
I married, and have been thankful to get
it over at Ascot.'

^ Does your wife like gaiety ?'

I should not think so ; she creeps
about the crowded rooms looking terrified
to death, and hardly speaking above a
frightened whisper. It can't be much

enjoyment, but she does her duty nobly,
poor child !'

She will gain self-confidence in time.
Her shyness is very pretty and engaging.'

Eustace made no answer.

Under the elm-trees Mrs. Brown Clifford
had seated herself in the largest
chair she could find, and was knitting.
Kitty, looking girlishly young and pretty,
had persuaded Alice to come into the
boat. Georgie and Lady Bellingham entertained
their guest.

I hope you like Richmond, Mrs.
Brown-ClifFord.'

Pretty well. It is too near London
for peace, and too far for comfort ; the
countrified aspect is cockney, and the
London aspect is vulgar ; my rooms
smoke, and the river smells abominably.
I like the place.'

With such drawbacks you must be
easy to please.'

^ I dare say. My sister hates it ; she
would like to come back here. I tell
her she must wait for the present. Is
Mr. St. Aubyn at home V

At this very moment approaching.
Do you see him ? How do you do,
Uncle Charles V

The Rector, grown more portly during
the last two years, came up smiling.
Mrs. Brown Clifford met him with unwonted
animation.

I shall have a great deal to say to
you,' she said, nodding her head. ^ But
I will say it quietly when I get the opportunity.
Meanwhile tell me, did my cat's
kitten live that I sent you ? It should
have been a beauty.'

Alas ! if only we fulfilled our obligations

said Mr. St. Aubyn, smiling. ' It
arrived a perfect beauty of very tender
age ; its legs have never ceased to grow
since, especially the hind ones ; its long
hair all came off in patches ; it has one
eye very considerably larger than the
other, and having been accidentally shut
in a door before its remonstrating powers
were sufficiently developed to give the
alarm, it has lost its tail.'

So I suppose you have caused it to
depart this life V

Not at all ; on the contrary, it is a
general favourite. Gwendoline declares
that its very want of all charms is
original and piquant.'

It often happens that children do not
in the least come up to the charms of
their parents. My cat is unique,' said
Mrs. Brown Clifford.

Well, Mrs. Clifford, are you tired of
Riehiiiond, and thinking of coming back
here again ? Your poor house looks
quite deserted and forlorn.'

It depends upon circumstances.'

It would be a pleasure to you to be
near your daughter,' said Lady Bellingham
politely.

^ That also depends upon circumstances.
Young people are funny to deal with : it
takes some of them longer to shake into
each other's ways than others ; and
the nearer the relations, the further
they should keep) away during the
process.'

But Eustace and Kitty are quite an
old married couple by this time. I do
not think we need expend any more
anxieties upon them. They are as settled
as they ever will be.'

You think so said Mrs. Brown-clifford
dryly.

So will you when you have been here
a little longer. I have been much with
them.'

So I understand.'

^ And I have come to the conclusion
that the honeymoon stage is over, and

the more friends they now see the better.'

«/

Indeed !'

I think there is no need to discuss
their feelings, or what is best for them
said Georgie bluntly. ^ We must all
fight it out for ourselves, and the only
thing is to do it in the way that is least
obvious to the outside world.'

Ah !' said Mr. St. Aubyn, touching
Georgie's shoulder kindly, ^ here is an
instance of a young lady who has succeeded
admirably in that respect.'

VOL. II. 37

At that moment a voice calling
^ Georgie, Georgie !' resounded across the
garden, and she jmiiped to her feet.

Joe wants me she said. ' Uncle
Charles, I will have my revenge on you
some day ;' and she sped away across the
grass.

A pleasant ending to a most uncomfortable
beginning,' said Mr. St. Aubyn.

My dear Charles,' said Lady Bellingham
haughtily, ' you forget that wee are
not alone.'

I beg your pardon, but Mrs. Brown-clifford
and I are such old friends, and
have played at fox and goose together.'

^ Then,' said Lady Bellingham graciously,
* I will leave you to have your
talk out, and go and see what Alice is
doing.'

She smiled and nodded, and swept

away, her long silk gown rustling over
the gravel-walks.

Mrs. Brown-Clifford's face altogether
changed when she was gone; it fell into
deep lines ; she looked twenty years older.
She turned to her friend and laid her
heavy hand on his arm. ' Tell me what
it all means,' she said.

You must judge for yourself,' he answered
uneasily. ^ I cannot disguise my
disappointment.'

Then you see how unhappily it has
turned out ?'

For which V

For both. I will be just. Kitty is as
little able to make him happy as he is
her.'

Why did you make him leave the
Guards V

^ I thought I was wise. I thought if

87—2

they were thrown altogether on their own
society — besides, he had done it already.'

Not quite beyond recall. That was a
fatal mistake.'

Why did you not say so at the time V
Can't you understand ? We were all

in a position of extreme delicacy.'

I hate delicacy. I suppose people
call Truth indelicate because she wears no
clothes.'

You should not blame me for your
own mistakes.'

I don't blame you. I only blame
myself for having believed you when you
first induced me to think about it.'

Come,' said the Rector, trying to
speak cheerfully, ' there is not so much
to fret about. I don't think you would
have liked to have had Kitty an old maid
on your hands — and the result of your

incessant precautions was such that it was
more than probable ; and she was growing
more and more timid and self-conscious,
poor child !'

I admit it. But at the same time it
is an open (question whether it is best to
be what you call so broadly an old maid,
or an unhappy wife.'

I think you are going too far. I
should not call Kitty an unhappy wife.
I am not sure,' he added a little indignantly,
' that I do not think that she
ought to be satisfied. Look what some
women have to put up with from their
husbands !'

I think a woman would rather have a
husband who loved her passionately, and
occasionally beat her violently, than cool,
courteous indifference.'

Chacun a son gout. Women are very

illogical — always extremes one way or
the other. But there are worse misfortunes
than beating. Eustace is a thoroughly
good fellow.'

Mrs. Brown-Clifibrcl o^ave her most expressive
snort.

Mr. St. Aubyn grew angry. ' What
does Kitty complain of?' he exclaimed.

Complain ? If he took every tooth
out of her head every morning, and slowly
drew off her finger-nails every afternoon,
she would not utter a word of complaint.
It is that that puts her to such a disadvantage
— she loves him.'

Then what is the matter ? What is
amiss ? He is safely married to her ; he
cannot escape if he would. She ought to
be satisfied.'

'She will be content some day said Mrs.
Brown-Clifford solemnly. ' There will come

a day on which she will be content. You
wilfully refuse to understand what I have
been a fool to mention to you ; but the
day on which she will be happy again will
be the day on which she can set liii
free.'

The words gave him a most unpleasant
start. ' I do not understand !' he exclaimed.


Perhaps you had better not try,' said
the lady. ' It needs a perfectly unselfish
spirit to understand that there can be no
worse trial in this life to an affectionate
nature than to feel itself a burden and
misfortune to the loved individual.'

These feelings become morbid and
unreal,' said the Rector hastily. * I am
quite sure, Mrs. Clifford, that your duty
as a mother is to combat them in every
respect. It is all the old story — the want

of self-confidence which your system of
education instilled into your daughter

I hope I have frightened you well,'
said Mrs. Brown-Clifford, leaning back in
her chair. ' Now there is the Bellinofhani
woman coming back, so I will leave you
to digest our conversation, and talk to
her.'

Such a mode of speaking of his sister
must have been startling to the Rector,
but he took no notice. It was of no use
being displeased with Mrs. Brown-Clifford
it is never much satisfaction to be displeased
with anyone to whom your displeasure
is a matter of the most profound
indifference.

AM going to cook said Gerty,
coming up to the tent. ' I
cannot go on like this. Here
have we been ever so many days,
and every day the same monotonous tea,
either indoors or here, which is much the
same. I am going into the woods, kettle
in hand, match-box in pocket — alone, if
nobody will accompany me — and there I
shall cook, and eat what I have cooked.'

What apparatus do you require V said
Georgie.

anything that Kitty will give me.
Eggs, ginger — I can do a great deal with
eggs, and ginger — tea, sugar — I am unfashionable,
and like plenty — milk, and
salt. Who will come ?'

I will come,' said Georgie.

You are unduly energetic,' said Alice
languidly.

^ All the same, I am not going to let
you off, my dear. Kitty, what can you
make ?'

Kitty can cook very well said Mrs.
Brown - C lifFor d.

^ Really ! what fun ! Come, Kitty, you
see we don't know all your accomplishments
yet. Now come, Alice, Georgie,
Joe — all of you ! Here is Muriel with a
load of aprons. Do rouse yourselves I
And if Mrs. Brown-Clifford and mamma
will join us in the wood by the big ilex-tree

and the trout stream at five o'clock,
we will have a repast prepared for them
milder the greenwood tree." '

And Gerty put on a huge cook's apron.
Alice rose and followed them unwillingly ;
but her grudging humour could not hold
out against the fun that Gerty managed
to infuse into the whole thing. When
they reached the ilexes, the fire was
already lighted. Saucepans, eggs, currants,
raisins abounded.

Kitty set to \¥ork at once. She
turned up her sleeves, donned an apron
like Gerty's, who pretended to be excessively
busy and did everything wrong,
while she amused herself with singing the
whole time :

Simmer, simmer ; boil, boil ;

Put the butter in.
Raisins, flour, cream, and oil ;
Biscuits, half a tin.'

Not oil, mamma,' said Muriel gravely.

Simmer, simmer ; boil, boil ;
Shake the pot about :
If no cream, then why not oil 1
I can't make it out.'

/ Kitty, that horrible concoction of yours

looks like a witch's soup — boiled frogs

and snakes into a rich pulp.'

Whip it, Gerty — whip it ! quick !' cried
Kitty. ' Quick, dear ! it will be spoilt I
Oh, please do go on whipping !'

Here, Eustace !' cried Gerty, as her
brother appeared on the scene. ' Your
tyrannical wife insists on my whipping
this witch's potion without a moment's
pause. Please take a turn.'

It will be spoilt if you leave off one
moment,' said Kitty.

And Eustace found a fork and a large
bowl thrust into his hands.

Oh, Uncle Eu !' cried Muriel, dancing

with delight ; * if you don't whip hard,
the frogs and snakes will all come to life
again. Oh, go on ! go on !'

Suddenly a whish and rush of steam
was heard — a great boiling over.

Tell me if it is dynamite !' exclaimed
Eustace. * I can't stop ! How long is
this to go on, Kitty V

Don't stop,' she answered over her
shoulder, as she flew to help Alice to
rescue the overflowing of the kettle.

Meanwhile Georgie had been very busy
and perfectly silent in one corner. She
was now observed to come rapidly forward
and stand over the fire, then to give a
vehement toss in the air, immediately-followed
by a hiss and a rapid rueful glance
after a blackened cinder.

I call that wicked waste,' said Muriel
gravely. 'Why Aunt Georgie should

spend ten minutes with eggs and flour
and all sorts of good things in a corner,
and then throw the result into the fire,
passes my wildest imagination.'

It was a pancake,' gasped Georgie,
coughing in the dense smoke. 'Never say
die ! I will try again.'

Kitty, my hand is dropping off !'

Kitty went to the rescue, and Eustace
Hung himself on the ground ; but Gerty
would not let him off, crying imperatively :

Come and toast. The guests will be

here in no time, and we shall have

nothing but cinders and failures to set

before them.

Cinders and failures, see how they look !
I fear me your faith will be terribly shook.
Cinders and failures, this will bring to book
The boasting and pride of your amateur cook.'

Execrable, Gerty !' cried her brother.
Even I could beat that, to sacrifice

grammar to rhyme ! Am I to toast that
bread ? Can't you give me a piece which
is not full of large holes ? See, the toasting
fork slowly works through the holes ;
and nobody likes toast with crusts on.'

When I was a little maid,'

sang Gerty,

I was made to eat my crust ;
And when " I can't " I said,

They only vowed, " You must." '

A clash of plates was heard, and Kitty
triumphantly dished a beautiful cake, hot
and steaming — nobody having the least
idea how it was done.

Victoria ! Victoria !'
cried Gerty.

Away with mortification,
Away with bitterness ;
Guard Kitty from elation,
And sing her grand success !'

Eustace took it up, flourishing a spoon :

Stir with your emulation,

Stir with all your power ;
Avoid a mortification,

With butter, plums, and flour.'

And the whole party, except Kitty,
joined in the chorus :

Avoid a mortification,

With butter, plums, and flour.'

On this scene arrived Lady Bellingham,
the Rector, and Mrs. Brown-chord.

All cracked !' cried Uncle Charles
gaily.

Gerty advanced solemnly upon him :

He who comes here

Our wrath must dread.
Unless at once

He earns his bread.'

^ These pieces of bread must all be
toasted, Uncle Charles. The wood-smoke
is most harassing, but 'tis a small evil ;

sit exactly in it, and then in the density
you will not feel it so much. Kitty,
come, help me with the table-cloth.'

I like tea out of doors,' said Mrs.
Brown-Clifford. ' The grass is damp,
insects abound, the tea is cold smoky
water, the bread and butter is abominable,
the buns are old, and the jam is
pricked — anything will do for out of
doors ; and if you are expected to eat the
horrors concocted by the amateurs of the
family, it will be a mercy if you survive
to tell the story. I like rural teas out of
doors.'

The gaiety flagged gradually. It was
not yet midsummer, in spite of the fine
weather, and it became chilly early.

As they all went homewards, Gerty
took her uncle's arm, and walked with
him rather silently. Presently she

VOL. II. 38

stopped, put her hand on his coat-sleeve
and said :

Uncle Charlie, the Begum never
thawed.'

I saw it, child.'

^ Mark my words, she means mischief !'

Don't, Gerty ; you frighten me,' he
said uneasily.

The good Rector also was getting
anxious.

USTACE; said Kitty the next
morning, coming into his
business-room, ' I find that I
must go up to London for the day this
week

What is it ? It will be awfully bad
travelling.'

Shopping chiefly. There are a good
many things I must see about.'
^ What sort of things ?'
Clothes, gowns for myself and
mamma ; and I thought I would see that

38—2

victoria for your mother — in fact, there
is enough to do to make it very desirable
that I should go.'

^ I can take you any day except Thursday.'


^ No, no, Eustace ! I don't want you to
come ; indeed, I don't think that we
could both leave home with the house so
full'

^ One does not stand on ceremony with
one's own mother and sisters.'

She winced a little at the thought that
she did stand very much on ceremony
with them.

I don't want you to come, dear,' she
said again. ' It will be very hot and
dusty, and shopping is only tolerable to
women.'

Well, if you can do without me '

Perfectly.'

She had a little over-acted her eagerness
to spare him.

^ You must have some one he said
quickly.

^ I shall have Joe, at all events for the
journey both ways : he goes up for a
meeting.'

Very well, only make Grimes order a
brougham. I won't have you going about
in cabs.'

^ Very well.'

He considered her comfort constantly.
She felt, as she often did, a warm feeling
of gratitude to him. She went to him,
and put her hand very gently on his
shoulder, as if she would fain have said
some little caressing word ; but there was
no response, he went on writing. She
waited a moment ; then her hand fell softly
to her side, and she moved away.

An impulse seized upon Eustace to
stop her, but he thought better of it. He
did not want her to become accustomed
to stay in his room ; he wanted to keep it
to himself, a refuge in which he might be
sure of solitude. If he gave her any
encouragement she might encroach on this
valued privacy ; so he let the hand he had
raised to stay her find its way instead to
the inkstand, and renew the writing on
which he was engaged.

Kitty's footfall was very noiseless ; she
had tiny feet, and she always wore dainty
satin shoes. He heard her move away to
the door, open it very slowly, and go out.

Alice, coming down to ask her brother
a question, found her leaning for one
moment against the wall, her hands
pressed tightly to her throat.

What is it, Kitty ? Are you not

well V she asked ; but Kitty was alert
again instantly.

Matter ! — nothing. What should
there be V she exclaimed, and she went
past Alice and upstairs.

Alice felt sadly that that little figure
in its delicate dress of pale blue stuff,
with the soft golden hair on her white
brow, and gray eyes that seemed to be
growing larger and larger every day, had
something about it very pathetic. But
she steeled herself again ; her sister-in-law
had married with her eyes open ; there
had been no illusion, no misrepresentation
whatever. She had all that she had any
right to expect ; if she were not happy it
was entirely her own fault.

The following morning Joseph Mulroy
and Kitty went to London together. A
shower had fallen in the night, and had

laid the dust. Kitty emerged from her
brougham into Marshall and Snelgrove's
splendid premises, looking as dainty and
fresh and beautifully dressed as anyone in
London.

Choosing gowns for Mrs. Brown-clifford
was no sinecure. The silks must be
of a certain thickness, but very soft ;
purple, but not violet ; spotted, but with
spots of a certain size ; costly, but neither
to exceed nor be less than a given price.
Kitty felt glad that she was alone,
so that she might have no spectator of
the trouble she was obliged to give to
procure the right thing. It left little
time for her own purchases ; and she was
looking at them rather indifferently, when
a familiar voice fell ujoon her ear, causing
her to start violently. Just behind her
came two tall figures ; she had not seen

either for a long time, and her heart beat
wildly as she recognised Marion Austen
and her cousin.

Kitty sat with all the delicate lace
she was examining gathered up in her
hand, gazing at them. Was it Marion
after all ? or was it only a shadow of her
former self? She was altered ; there
was a dark shadow under each eye, and
the eyelids were sharply defined and sunk
deeply under the brows. Her face had
grown thin, the beautiful outline of cheek
and chin only too distinct ; the colour
came and went ; her mouth had a settled
look of great sweetness, but a pathos
which brought the tears with a rush to
Kitty's eyes.

Kitty had long known that Marion
had never married. If she had looked
happy and radiant, no wish to speak to

her would have crossed her mind ; but
seeing her as she was now, with her
extraordinary beauty so overshadowed by
care, a swift impulse rose up in the breast
of that other sorrowful woman : she would
seek comfort from her, she would understand.


Kitty went forward rather blindly, With
both hands outstretched. Marion was
bending over the counter ; her companion
drew her attention.

May,' he said, ' this lady wants to
speak to you.'

Kitty glanced at Lord Austen ; he
looked older, very gray, and with a grave,
self-contained expression. But she only
bowed to him, and looked at Marion.

Miss Austen !' she said entreatingly.

The large dai'k eyes turned on her with
no look of recognition.

I beg your pardon,' said Marion.

You do not know nie, but I have
never forgotten you. I — I am Kitty
Bellingham.'

Marion gave a little start, and then
held out her hand. ' I ought to have
known ^^^u,' she said sweetly. ' Will you
forgive me ? It is long since we met.'

Lord Austen also shook hands. He
was not glad of this meeting ; he fancied
it might be painful to Marion. He said
something to her in a low voice, to which
she answered :

Yes, you are quite right, it is getting
late. Where are you staying. Lady
Bellingham ? in the country, or in London
? Shall I see you again ?'

I have only cone up for one day,'
said Kitty, a fear that it would all end
thus rushing into her nnnd. She saw

that Lord Austen wanted to take his
cousin away. She did not know what
to say to keep her a moment longer. * I
am going back to-days she faltered. ' I
should like to see you again.'

She held Marion's hand in both hers.
Her own were burning ; their clasp was
feverish. She looked up with yearning
eyes, so large, so wistful, that a sudden
intuition burst on Marion. That look
was the look of an unloved woman. It
flashed upon her with a pang so acute
that the colour left her face. To a
woman less entirely noble some thrill of
triumph would have come, some even
irrepressible exultation that, in spite of
all, that love which had once been the
most precious possession of her whole life
would not die ; but to Marion the thought
was one only of sharp pain.

She bent down from her superior
height towards the little slender figure
before her.

I hardly like to ask you she said,
the slight foreign accent becoming more
perceptible, as it always did when she was
feeling most. ' Will you come home with
me now ? My father is ill ; he will not
be able to see you, but I could stay with
you half an hour. I should like you to
tell me about my cousins and Castleford.'

She held Kitty's hand fast, for it
seemed as if she could not answer.

Austen,' she said, ^ I am going to
carry off Lady Bellingham home with
me. It is not fair to desert you, but '

^ Never mind me. I will only put you
in the carriage, and we will do our shopping
another day. Tell your father that I
will look in in the evening.'

And your shopping ?' said Marion,
turning to Kitty and recalling her to
everyday life. ' Have you finished ?'

All that is necessary answered Kitty.
The rest can wait.'

She gave her directions, and they went
away.

^ Are you not well, Lady Bellingham V
said May, when they were in the
brougham. ' Your little face has grown
so thin and white — and so very pretty
she added, with a sunny smile.

I am quite well ; it is not that.'

Well, we will not talk till we get
home,' said Marion, alarmed at the excessive
agitation of her companion.

She leant back in the carriage, and did
not speak again till they stopped at Ralph
Austen's door, and she led the way indoors.


Is Mr. Austen awake V she asked the
servant, and was relieved by the answer
that he had not moved since she went
out.

Tell Mrs. Jones to send down for meat
once when he wakes she said. Then
she took Kitty into the drawing-room,
and drew her down on to a sofa beside
her.

Poor child ! poor little thing !' she
said gently.

The hard pain rose up in Kitty's throat.
Why do you pity me ?' she said. ' Why
do you say that ?'

I do not know,' answered Marion
gravely. ' There is that in your little
face that calls for pity ; but I cannot
quite find it in my heart to pity the
woman whom Eustace chose out from all
the world to be his wife.'

You think that such a very happy
fate r

Marion paused, then she said quietly :

Would you undo it, Kitty V

There are things that can never be
undone. If I could — oh I if I could !'

Marion drew away with a gesture of
repulsion ; but Kitty had thrown herself
on her knees beside her, and with clasped
hands looked up into her face.

^ Marion I Marion !' she cried. ^ Oh,
Marion ! I love him so ; and though, alas I
I am his wife, he has no love for me. Is
there on God's earth a sadder fate than
mine ?'

The floodgate of words was loosened ;
for the first time the bitter sorrow of her
married life was put into words, and they
poured forth with all the force of their
long pent-up existence.

If I had known — if I had even
guessed how it would be ! but I loved
him so entirely, and I was so certain that
I could make him happy with my love —
that I could make it sufficient for him.
But my punishment is greater than I can
bear. He is unhappy ; I cannot please
him. I only bore him with my love, and
weary him with my efforts to please him.
It is not for myself — you see it, May ?
Don't you see it ? It is the crushing
sense that I am the crowning misfortune
of his life ; and only one thought comes
to give me any hope — any relief to this
dreadful ]pain. It is . . . May ! May !
pray for me that God will let me die, and
set my darling free !'

May only strained her closely to her
breast.

My darling !' she murmured. ' Poor

VOL. II. • 39

little thing ! if only I could help

you !

Can you not help me, May ? I know
you cannot ; but I see you understand.
You know what it must be — do you not,

May r

May nodded ; she could not speak.

You say, and they all say, that I look
white and ill, and I laye grown very
thin; but I am quite well. When you say
so, a kind of hope rises in me. Fancy,
May I one morning I went to a doctor,
and asked him to sound my lungs and
heart. I had a terrible pain in my
throat — I often have it — I thought it
might mean mischief But he only smiled
and smiled, and assured me that it was
only neuralgia ; that no stronger, healthier
life existed than mine. He shrugged his
shoulders at my indifference to his good

news.'

Kitty, you must neither say nor think
such things ; they are wrong, they are
rebellious to the will of God.'

^ Eustace is hard and bitter now ; he
does not believe in the goodness of God.'

Marion shivered.

Kitty !' she said earnestly. ^ Oh,
little Kitty! have courage — have strength
to persevere ! You frighten me — you
terrify me when you say that of Eustace !'

It is true. He has lost all the happiness
of faith ; he is cynical ; he sees bad
motives in the actions of other people ;
and I see him growing harsh and stern,
while I can do nothing.'

Do not say that you can do nothing !'
exclaimed Marion. ^ It is not right, it is
wicked ! You must fight for him ceaselessly.
Are not you his wife ? You
must win him back to good.'

39—2

Teach me what to do ; I am so helpless,
so astray. I cannot talk to him ; he
turns away to conceal a yawn. I am not
clever, like his sisters and like you ; and I
am always thinking about what I say, for
fear I should not please him. The strain
gets very great sometimes ; and the pain
in my throat, that they call neuralgia,
comes on always when I have an opportunity
of speaking to him, and then I
cannot speak.'

Do not give it up. You only want
time, Kitty — time.'

No. I used to be nearer to him once.
He thought I could make him happy.
No, May ; time is drifting us further and
further apart, and I am losing my anchor
—the hope I once possessed.'

You must not fail !' said May. ' You
must not !'

^ If I were strong like you, able to
have influence. But I have no power,
not even the power the poorest, sickliest
woman in the village boasts of — her husband's
love.'

Marion clasped her hands. What could
she say — what could she do, in presence
of such an irremediable trial ?

Kitty,' she said softly, ' do you pray ?

I pray one prayer morning, noon, and
night : that God will set him free.'

^ God in His goodness grant that that
prayer may be unanswered ! It is wild,
and very wrong.'

I am so miserable.'

That is no excuse for sin.'

You do not know.'

Kitty was sobbing wildly now, her self-control
utterly broken down. For a time
Marion could only watch her pitifully,

with a tender hand touching her soft dishevelled
hair.

Then came a sudden reaction. Kitty
sprang to her feet, pressing her hands together.


May,' she cried, ' do you wonder why
I have come to you like this ? Why to
you, of all women in the world, I have
poured out my bitter humiliation ? Do
you not wonder why V

May did not answer ; her eyes were
full of tender compassion. Kitty went
on, speaking passionately :

'It is because it is all your fault.
Why did you give him up ? Why were
you not true to the highest obligation of
all your life — your engagement and your
love for him ?'

Marion hid her face in her hands.
Kitty went on without mercy.

You and you only have destroyed
him ! To you he attributes his shattered
faith in love and truth and justice ! But
for your too great wisdom he might have
continued what he was when I knew him

first — the noblest, greatest And what

is he now ? — the unwilling victim of a
marriage that is hateful to him ; tied —
tied — tied hand and foot to a woman he
cannot love.'

Kitty, dear Kitty !'

What have you to say ? I know all
the arguments — how well, heaven knows !
I do not doubt you were right ; your self-sacrifice
was very great ; the sword
passed through your heart to reach his.
And I have been always rich, so I do not
know the value of wealth weighed in the
balance against happiness and love. I
am no judge. I never studied these

things ; I only see their results. May,
when he married me he told me that his
love and faith had died together ; but it
was not true. I am his wife — his wife,
May — but he loves you, not me ; loves
you with that one love that is entwined
with every fibre of the heart — the love I
know so well.'

Kitty, darling !'

^ Only listen to me. I do not know
why I speak to you like this. I have
told it to no mortal but yourself I
think it was a sort of forlorn hope.
May, you are so strong, so beautiful ;
and I so weak and helpless. As you are
strong, be merciful. I do not know how
you can do it ; but, May, if you can, oh,
give me back my husband 1'

If I could — if I only could !'

Kitty's hands fell to her side ; the

passionate light died out of hei* eyes ;
a sort of exhaustion came over her.
Marion gently drew her down into the
chair at her side, and put a pillow behind
her. She lay very still for a time ; then
she turned a little way round, and said
very faintly :

Will you forgive me, Miss Austen ?
I am afraid I have said too much.'

May forced back the tears that kept
filling her eyes.

What can I say ? What can I do ?'
she said. ' Kitty, there are times when
our power of action is destroyed, when we
can do nothing but lie still ; and this is
one of them. It is in God's hands.'

Kitty rose to her feet ; she was
shaken and trembling.

I must go now,' she said. ^ If I do
not start I shall keep Joe waiting for me

too ]oiio\ I am so sorry I came,' she
said childishly. ' It was so selfish to
make you happy too.'

Marion did not seek to detain her —
there was nothing more to say. She
only irate her arms round her and kissed
her. Kitty received the caress very
gently ; she did not return it. She
tremblingly smoothed her hair, fastened
her veil, and prepared to start. Marion
came with her to the hall-door. At the
last moment, as the servant held open
the carriage-door for her to get in, she
turned back, held up her sweet face to
May for one more kiss, and then was
driven away.

Lord Austen came in at the door as
Lady Bellingham went out.

IJ^ARION AUSTEN lay sleepless
I i^Mj ^ ^^1 through the long, hot
summer night ; her brain was
in a whirl. Kitty's sorrows, the pleading
of her eyes, were always before her, and
the longing wish to do something to help
her. She had turned to her ever-ready
help and counsellor, her cousin Austen,
when he had come to her immediately
after Lady Bellingham's departure, and
poured out to him the whole sad story,
and the sorrow that she was powerless to

help. He had listened with the usual
deep, tender interest in everything that
concerned her — that tenderness which
made Marion turn to him and lean on
him far more than she was aware of;
and then he became very pale, and said
hastily :

There is one way, May — one

way ' but he did not finish this

sentence, only walked away abruptly to
the window, and stood looking out.
Something in the few Avords, or rather in
the way they were uttered, made her
change the subject.

What did he mean ? In vain Marion
turned on her pillow, striving to summon
sleep to her aid ; the oblivion would not
come, and she heard the clocks strike hour
after hour. At length weariness prevailed
; the gray of the morning was

beginning to show through the chinks of
the shutters when she fell into uneasy
slumber, haunted by dreams.

Marion dreamt that she was walking
a large garden, sunny and hot, and
sweet with a thousand perfumes. She
could see the flowers on either side. Tall
rows of phloxes were in the borders ;
heliotrope and verbena filled the air with
sweetness. On a hot brick wall ripe apricots
nestled. Marion was conscious of a
vaofue sense of misery and trouble. She
was walking between Eustace and his
wife ; and it seemed to her that they were
longing to meet each other, but that she
was between them, and they could not.
She had lost the sower to move ; she was
an involuntary barrier between them.
Then suddenly in front of her she saw a
figure walking swiftly along, and the instinctive

feeling that always made her
turn to him caused her to cry out suddenly
: ' Austen, Austen, help me !' And
she put out her arms to catch him, and
he always receded from her gras]) ; till
With a little cry she awoke suddenly to
find that some one was standing by her
bedside with a lighted candle. She
started up, recognising instantly her
father's sick-nurse, Mrs. Jones.

I will come at once !' she exclaimed,
rapidly putting on her dressing-gown.
What is the matter V

She was well accustomed to be summoned
at night, but something in the
nurse's face made her see that it was no
ordinary alarm.

Mr. Austen wants you at once, ma'am,'
she said, ' There is something on his
mind, and I don't like his symptoms. I



misdoubt nie that the gout has flown to
some dangerous quarter.'

Have you sent for the doctor ?'

Yes, ma'am, and for his lordship. It
was Mr. Austen's wish. I would' not
have done it before waking you, else,' she
said apologetically. ' But the same messenger
did for both, so I thought it best.'

^ You were quite right,' said Marion.

She was ready now, and she led the
way to her father's room. The house was
full of gray light ; the nurse's candle
looked red and feeble now — she unit it out.
^ One sees better without it,' she muttered
to herself, and the early light was
increasing with the rapidity of approaching
sunrise.

Mr. Austen was very ill. Marion saw
at a glance that this was no ordinary
attack ; he was suffering from a great

Oppression and distress. His eyes, when
they fell upon her, had in them an appealing
look that touched her to the heart.
She went up to him, kneeling by his side,
saying tenderly that the doctor would soon
come, and bring help and possible relief.

As the day began to brighten, and
more light and air were admitted, Mr.
Austen was somewhat relieved ; the oppression
was less ; the watchers began to
be more hopeful. The doctor came and
went, returning about ten o'clock. By
that time he was sufficiently restored for
Marion to feel almost happy, and she followed
the doctor eagerly from her father s
room to hear her hopes confirmed. But
he could not do so ; there were fatal
symptoms apparent to his experience.

Marion was one of those people whom
no one would deceive — there was so much

of strength and power of endurance in her
noble face. He told her his opinion candidly.
She went back to her cousin, who
was sitting in her father's sitting-room,
and told him. There was, it seemed to
her, no time for emotion or consideration
of her own feelings. A terrible sense of
the pressure of time came upon her —
the man, whose days or even hours were
numbered, was not fit to die.

He must be told at once, Austen,' she
said with ashy lips.

He nodded.

I will do it, dear. I will take the
first opportunity.'

It was terrible to him ; but, as usual, he
was ready to do anything to spare her.

You will lose no time V she whispered.

Sit here and wait,' was his answer,
placing her in a chair ; and then, with a

VOL. II. 40

white set face, he went to the bedside of
the dying man.

An hour passed. No hour in all her
life had seemed so interminable to poor
Marion. She felt sick and cold, and sat
listening in shivering suspense to the
voices in the next room ; her father's
voice, high-pitched and faint, going on
and on unceasingly, Austen's deep tones
speaking now and then, always interrupted
with querulous impatience.

At last the door opened, and Lord
Austen came in. Marion looked up at
him with anxious eyes.

^ I had nothing to tell,' he said, after a
pause. ^ Your father knew his own condition.'


Marion clasped her hands.
How does he bear it ? What does
he say ?' she cried.

He will not think of himself. He
will not turn his thoughts to what is
coming until his mind is set at rest on
one point

And that is V

Go to him, dear said her cousin.
Do not keep him waiting. There is no
time to lose.'

The nurse was administering food to
her patient. She was indignant with
everyone, saying in a loud whisper that
this excitement was unjustifiable.

Old Ralph Austen, who looked worse
than before, pushed her aside, and the
soup she held, when he saw his daughter,
and he spoke eagerly in a hoarse voice.

What do you say ? Will you consent?
Did he tell you ?' he exclaimed, catching
at her gown.

What is it, papa?' she said gently.

40—2

He might have told you. I want you
to marry him at once—here, by my bedside
— before I can find rest, before I can
dare to think of death.'

Marion shrank back with a Httle cry.
It was terrible to her. Her father's wish
had become a perfect frenzy. He implored,
he commanded, he prayed, with
tears pouring down his face, uttering
strangely broken words about atonement,
not daring to face his wife in
another world unless this wish were
gratified.

Marion was terrified beyond measure ;
she did not know what to do or to say ;
she hardly realized what was expected of
her, in her wish to allay her father's distress.
In her fear and pain she uttered
an appeal :

Oh, Austen, come and help me !'

He heard her in the dressing-room, and
instantly was at her side.

Ralph Austen's excitement grew worse,
and his cousin sent off for the doctor to
come back. Then he drew Marion away,
and whispered :

What shall we do. May V

Oh, anything — anything to calm him !'
He went back to the bedside.

Ralph,' he said, taking his hand
tenderly, ' it shall be as you wish — now,
and at once.'

A look of inexpressible relief came over
the face of the dying man. He was silent
for one moment, then the excitement
burst out again. They must send for a
priest at once ; the marriage must take
place in his sight. They could not calm
him.

At last Marion came forward and knelt

down by his side, taking both the agitated
hands in hers.

Dark ng father she said, ^ there shall
be no delay. Austen will fetch Mr. Newcome
at once ; you shall see us married.
See, he is gone, palm,' she added, as her
cousin left the room. ' He will be back
in a very few minutes.'

Then softly, tenderly soothing him, she
strove with all her power to lead his
thoughts heavenward, all the time glancing
at the clock in a strange terror at the
shortness of the time left to her father,
and her inability to reach his inner soul.

The words passed over him ; his mind
could dwell on nothing but the one paramount
thought. And at last Marion's
words ceased, and instead, she hid her
face in her hands and prayed passionately
for mercy on his soul.

She was so absorbed that she started
violently when a gentle hand was laid
upon her shoulder, and her cousin's
whisper was in her ear :

May, there is no time to lose.'

Mr. Newcome had approached the
dying man, and would fain have said some
words to him ; but the fierce impatience
again swept over his spirit.

Go on r he exclaimed. ' Go on, or
you will leave me no time to die !'

The rest passed as if in a dream. This
could be no binding legal marriage ; the
ceremony must be gone through again.
But the Marriage Service in its shortest
form was read, the white, trembling bride
repeating every word mechanically ; then
when it was over, kneeling down in a
kind of trance, only conscious that Mr.
Newcome's voice and manner had changed,

that there was a strange silence in the
room. Ralph Austen had fallen into a
state of unconsciousness, and before nighttime
for him had merged into eternity.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING 4 SONS, PRINTERS, G'JILOFORO.

G., C- d- Co.
