OF Made$,

pUOl^NCE MARHYAI

.^^

-^i

^w

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

AT URBANA-champaign



L475n)

vel

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/momentofmadnesso01lean

AND OTHER STORIES.

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR CF ' love's CONFLICT,' * FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS,
ETC., ETC

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. I.

LONDON: R V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C

1883.

fall Rights reserved.

FLORENCE MARRYAT'S

POPULAR NOVELS.

Crown Sw, clof/i, 3^. 6d.

At all Booksellers in Town and Country, and at all Railway Bool<stalls.
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat,
Author of ' A Broken Blossom,' ' Phyllida,' ' How They
loved Him etc., etc.

Phyllis. By Florence Marryat, Author of 'My
Sister the Actress,' 'A Broken Blossom,' etc., etc., etc.

THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL. By Florence Marryat,
Author of 'Love's Conflict,' 'Phyllida,' 'A Broken
Blossom,' etc., etc., etc.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat,
Author of ' Phyllida,' ' Facing the Footlights,' etc., etc.

F. V. White & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

PREFACE.

Ix offering a re-Issue of these Stories to
^ the public, I desire to express my sincere
"^ thanks to the Proprietors of ' Temple Bar
Belgravia,' ' The East Afghan HoHday
Annual,' 'Judy's Annual,' ' Dispose's Annual,'
' The Editor's Box,' and •' The
Bolton Evening News,' for their kindness
"jn giving me permission to reprint them.

i Florence MARRYAT LEAN.

20 Regent's Park Terrace, N.W
May 1883.

A MOMENT OF MADNESS —
CHAPTER I.

Worthily TERRACE, CAMDEN TOWN,

CHAPTER II.

Gresham COURT, GLAMORGANSHIRE,

CAPTAIN NORTON'S DIARY, .

(in THREE CHAPTERS.)

OLD Contrary,
sent TO HIS DEATH !'







CHAPTER I.

Worthily TERRACE. CAMDEN TOWN.

T is the middle of July, but the
London season has not, as yet,
shown any symptoms of beings
on the wane, and the drawing-room
of the Honourable Mrs Carnaby-
Hicks is arranged for the reception of
visitors. Curtains of guipure lace, looped
with pale-blue ribbons, shroud every
window, purple irises and yellow jonquils
as displayed in art needlework, adorn
each chair and sofa ; fanciful little tables
of silk and velvet, laden with Sevres and

VOL. I. A

Dresden china are placed in everybody's
way, and a powerful odour of hot-house
flowers pervades the apartment. A double
knock sounds at the door, and the Honourable
Mrs Carnaby- Hicks starts from the
dose into which she has fallen, and seizing
a novel, sits upright, and pretends that
she is deep in its contents. But she need
not have been so punctilious, for the footman,
throwing open the door, announces
her brother, Mr Tresham. Roland enters
the room, looking fagged, dusty, and out
of sorts, a complete contrast to the dainty
adornments of his sister's drawing-room.

'Well, Roland!' exclaims Mrs Carnaby-
Hicks, 'and what is your news? It is
an age since we have seen you ! I was
beginning to think you must have made
away with yourself.'

No such luck,' replies her brother,
moodily, ' though I believe it would bethe
best thing that I could do.'

He is a handsome man of only thirty
years of age, but the look of care upon
his brow makes him appear older. His
dress is not exactly shabby, but it is the
dress of a needy gentleman, and did not

issue from the tailor's hands this season,
nor even last.

How are you all at home ?' continues
the lady.

Just the same as usual ; a medley of
dirt, ill-management, and punctuality 1
I dread to enter the house.'

Ah ! Roland, it is too late to advise
you now, but that marriage was the worst
day's work you ever did. Not thirty till
September, and with a wife and six children
on your hands. It is a terrible
misfortune ! '

And two hundred a-year on which to
support them,' laughs Mr Tresham, bitterly.
' Don't speak of it, Valeria, unless
you wish to drive me mad. And to add
to my troubles I have just received this
letter ; ' tossing it over to her.

Who is it from ? '

Lady Tresham ! Her generosity seems
to be on a par with his ! You see how she
writes me word that Sir Ralph is in Switzerland
mountain-climbing with Handley
Harcourt, but that if he were at home she
fears he would be unlikely to comply with
my request.'

Did you ask Ralph for money then ? '

Not as a gift. I wrote to him for a
loan of fifty pounds, to carry on the war,
bit of course I should regard it as a debt.
The fact is, Valeria, I don't know where to
look for money ; my profession brings mein
nothing, and we cannot live on the
miserable pittance my father left me. It
is simply impossible ! '

If Roland Tresham has entertained any
hope that, on hearing of his difficulty, his
rich sister will offer to lend or give him the
money, which would be a trifle out of her
pocket, he has reckoned without his host.
She likes Roland in her way, and is always
pleased to see him in her house, but the
woman and the children may starve for
aught she will do to help them. She considers
them only in the light of a burthen
and disgrace.

I don't see why you shouldn't live on
two hundred a-year,' she answers shortly.
Of course it is very little, but if your wife
were worth her salt she would make you
comfortable on it. But that is what comes
of marrying a beauty. They're seldom
good for anything else.'

There's not much beauty left about
JuHet now,' replies Roland Tresham, ' but
I don't think it is entirely her fault. The
children worry her so, she has no energy
left to do anything.'

It's a miserable plight to be in,' sighs
the Honourable Mrs Carnage-Hicks, 'and
I can see how it tells upon your health
and spirits. What do you propose to do .^^ '

'Do ! I should like to hang myself.
Do you think there is any chance, Valeria,
of your husband getting me a foreign
appointment } I don't care where it is.
I would go out to the Fiji Islands, or ,
or to the devil himself, to get away
from it all.'

And leave them at home .^ ' says Mrs
Carnage-Hicks.

Yes ! Juliet should have the two hundred,
and I would keep myself. Perhaps
if she had only the children to look after,
she might get on better. And the happiest
thing for me would be, never to return ! '

I will ask Mr Carnage-Hicks about it,'
replies his sister. ' If it is to be done at
all, it must be before Parliament is prorogued.
But I wouldn't lose all hope with

regard to Ralph on account of Lady Tres-ham's
letter. When he returns he can
hardly refuse to lend you such a trifling
sum as fifty pounds.'

It does not seem to occur to her that
she would miss the money as little as Sir
Ralph himself.

I shall not ask him a second time,'
says Roland, * nor Lady Tresham either.
They may keep their money to themselves.
But how a father can justify to himself the
fact of leaving ten thousand a-year to one
son, and two hundred to the other, beats
me altogether ! '

The money must go with the baronetcy
remarks his sister coolly, * and your portion
was only intended to supplement your professional
income. You ought to have made
a competency by this time, Roland. You
would have done so, had you not hampered
yourself in such a reckless manner !'

At this moment the conversation is
interrupted by the entrance of a young
lady, dressed in the height of the reigning
fashion.

My husband's niece, Miss Mabel
Moore,' says Mrs Carnaby- Hicks, and

then extending a hand to the girl, she
draws her forward. * Mabel, dear, this
is my younger brother, of whom you have
heard me speak. Ring the bell and let
us have tea. Roland and I have had a
long conversation, and I feel quite fatigued.'

Roland Tresham stares at his new acquaintance
with unmitigated surprise. Miss
Moore is a tall, dark girl with a commanding
figure, clad in a pale, cream-coloured
dress that fits it like a skin. Her rounded
arms, her well-developed bust and shapely
waist are as distinctly displayed as if the
material had been strained across them ;
and the uninitiated Roland gazes at her in
astonishment.

Such a sweet girl,' whispers Mrs 
Hicks to him, as Mabel quits her
side ; ' I love her as if she were my
daughter. As soon as the season is
over, Mr Carnaby- Hicks and I are going
to take her for a tour in Italy. And, by
the way, Roland, could you not manage
to accompany us ? A second gentleman
would be a great acquisition on the journey,
and you would be invaluable to Mabel and
me as a cicerone. Do come ! '

You might as well talk of my going to
the moon, Valeria. I should enjoy it
above all things, but it is impossible.
Only fancy the delight though of change
of scene and air and freedom from all the
horrors of Camden Town. It would be like
a taste of Heaven to me ! '

I am sure you could manage it if you
tried ! Come here, Mabel, and persuade
my brother to join us in our trip to
Italy.'

Oh ! Mr Tresham, do come,' says
Mabel, throwing a glance at him from a
pair of dark, languishing eyes. * It will
double Aunt Valeria's pleasure to have
your company.'

Roland Tresham has not, as a rule, admired
dark eyes in women nor commanding
figures. His wife is very fair, and
slight and fragile in appearance, and when
he married her eight years before, he
thought her the loveliest creature God
ever made. But as Mabel Moore casts
her black-lashed eyes upon him, he feels
a very strong desire to join the travelling
party to Italy.

You hold out powerful temptations tome,

Miss Moore he answers, ' but It is too
important a matter to be settled in a
day. But if I can go, you may be sure I
will;

And then he falls to wondering whether
Mrs Carnage-Hicks intends her offer to
be taken as an invitation, and means to
defray his expenses. For she must know
he has no money to pay them himself.
Meanwhile Miss Moore pours out his tea,
and hands it to him in a porcelain cup with
the most gracious and encouraging of
smiles. It is a strange contrast to the
man who knows what he will encounter
on reaching home, to be seated among all
the refinement of his sister's drawing-room,
sipping the most fragrant Pekoe from a
costly piece of china, whilst he is waited
on by a handsome woman clad in a cream-coloured
skin, every fold of the train of
which shakes out the essence of a subtle
perfume. He revels in it whilst it lasts,
though after a while he rises with a sudden
sigh of recollection, and says he must be
going home.

Don't forget to ask Hicks about the
appointment,' he whispers to his sister ashe

takes his leave. * Remember, I will
take anything and go anywhere just to get
away from this.'

Very good,' she answers, * and don't
you forget that we expect you to be one of
our party to Italy.'

Yes ! indeed,' echoes Mabel with a
parting glance, ' I shall not enjoy my trip
at all now, unless Mr Tresham goes with
us!'

What a good-looking fellow ! ' she exclaims
as soon as the door has closed
behind him. * Aunty ! why did you never
tell me what he was like ? '

My dear child, where was the use of
talking of him ? The unfortunate man is
married, and has no money. Had he been
rich and a bachelor, it would have been a
different thing ! '

I don't know that,' says Miss Mabel,

for my part I prefer married men to flirt
with ; they're so safe. Besides, it's such
fun making the wives jealous.'

It would take a great deal to make Mrs
Tresham jealous,' says the elder lady.

They're past all that, my dear. So you
can flirt with Roland to your heart's content,

only don't go too far. Remember
Lord Ernest Freemantle ! '

Bother Lord Ernest,' returns the
fashionable young lady in precisely the same
tone as she would have used the stronger
word had she been of the stronger sex.

Meanwhile the gentleman is going home
by train to Camden Town : a locality which
he has chosen, not on account of its convenience,
but because he can rent a house
there for the modest sum of thirty pounds
a-year. His immediate neighbours are
bankers' clerks, milliners, and petty tradesmen
from the West End, but the brother
of Sir Ralph Tresham of Tresham Court,
and the Honourable Mrs Carnaby- Hicks,
of 1 20 Blue Street, Mayfair, has no alternative
but to reside amongst them. He has
chosen a profession in which he has signally
failed, and has hampered himself
with a wife and six children, when his
private means are not sufficient to support
himself. He fancies he can hear his
children shouting even before he has
gained the little terrace in which they
reside. They are all so abominably strong
and healthy : their voices will reach to any

distance. And as he comes in sight of the
familiar spot, his suspicions turn to certainties.
Wilfrid and Bertie and Fred,
three sturdy rascals with faces surrounded
by auricles of golden hair like angels'
crowns, but plastered with dirt like the
very lowest of human creatures, are hanging
on to the palings which enclose a patch
of chickweed and dandelions in front of
the house, and shouting offensive epithets
to every passer-by.

Can't you keep inside and behave yourselves
.'^ How often have I ordered you
not to hang about the garden in this way ? '
exclaims Roland Tresham, as he cuffs the
little urchins right and left. The two youngest
rush for protection to their mother,
howling, whilst the eldest sobs out, —

Mamma said we might play here.'

Then your mother's as great a fool as
you are,' replies the father, angrily, as he
strides into the house.

Juliet Tresham is waiting to receive him,
with a deep frown upon her brow. Any
unprejudiced observer would see at a glance
that she is a lovely woman, but it is the
loveliness of beauty unadorned. Her luxuriant

golden hair is all pushed off her face,
and strained into a tight knot at the back
of her head. Her large blue eyes are dull
and languid ; her lips are colourless, and
her ill-fitting, home-made dress hangs awkwardly
upon her figure. In her husband's
eyes, all her beauty and her grace have
faded long ago. He associates her with
nothing now, but weak lungs and spirits,
squalling children, badly-cooked dinners,
and an untidy home. It is scarcely to be
wondered at that she does not smile him a
welcome home.

You might inquire whether the children
are in the right or wrong, before you hit
them,' she says sharply. ' I told them they
might play in the front garden.'

Then they must suffer for your folly, for
I won't have them hanging about the place
like a set of beggars' brats.'

It's all very fine for you to talk, but
what am I to do with them cooped up in
the house, on a day like this ? If you had
the charge of them, you'd turn them out
anywhere, just to get rid of them.'

Why don't you let the girl look after
them ? '

'The girl!' That's just how you men
talk ! As if one wretched girl of fourteen
had not enough to do to keep the house
clean, and cook the dinner, without taking
charge of half-a-dozen children ! '

Oh ! well, don't bother me about it.
Am I to have any dinner to-day or not ? '

I suppose Ann will bring it up when it
is ready,' says his wife indifferently ; * you
can't expect to be waited on as if you were
the owner of Tresham Court'

D — n you ! I wish you'd hold your
tongue ! ' he answers angrily.

He calls it his dinner, for the good
reason that it is the only dinner he ever
gets, but it is a wretched mockery of the
meal.

What do you call this '^. ' he says, as he
examines the untempting-looking viands,
and views with disgust the evident traces
of black fingers on the edge of the dish.
Take it away, and serve it me on a clean
plate. I may be obliged to swallow any
dog's meat you chose to put before me, but
I'll be hanged if I'll eat the smuts off your
servant's hands as well.'

Mrs Tresham, who is occupied at the

other end of the table in cutting slices of
bread and salt butter for the tribe of little
cormorants by which she is surrounded,
just turns her head and calls through the
open door to the maid-of-all-work in the
kitchen.

Ann, come and fetch away this dish ;
your master says it is dirty.'

Do it yourself! ' roars her exasperated
husband. 'It is quite bad enough that
you are so lazy, you won't look after any
of my comforts in my absence, without
your refusing to set matters right now.'

His wife takes up the dish in silence, and
leaves the apartment, whereupon two of
the children, disappointed of their bread
and butter, begin to cry. Roland Tresham,
after threatening to turn them out of the
room if they do not hold their tongues,
leaves his seat and leans out of the open
window, disconsolately. What a position
it is in which to find his father's son !
Outside, his neighbours are sitting in their
shirt sleeves, smoking clay pipes in their
strips of garden, or hanging over the railings
talking with one another ; in the road
itinerant merchants are vending radishes,

onions, and shellfish ; whilst a strong, warm
smell is wafted right under his nostrils from
the pork-pie shop round the corner. Inside,
the children are whimpering for the
return of their mother round a soiled tablecloth
which bears a piece of salt butter,
warm and melting, a jar of treacle with a
knife stuck in it, a stale loaf, a metal teapot,
and knives and forks which have been
but half-cleaned. A vision comes over
Roland of that art-decorated drawing-room
in Blue Street, with the porcelain tea-service,
the silken clad figure, and the
subtle perfume that pervaded the scene ;
and a great longing for all the delicacies
and refinements of life comes over him,
with a proportionate disgust for his surroundings.
When his wife returns with
the beefsteak, he pushes it from him. His
appetite has vanished with the delay.

I can't eat it,' he says impatiently.
Take the filth away.'

Well, it's the best I can do for you,' is
her reply. ' It's quite enough for a woman
to be nurse and housemaid, without turning
cook into the bargain.'

It is a long time since I have expected

you to do anything to please me, Juliet ;
however, stop the mouths of those brats ot
yours, and send them to bed. I want the
room to myself. I have work which must
be done this evening.'

She supplies the children's wants, and
hurries them from the room, whilst her
husband sits sulking and dreaming of Blue
Street. If his brother-in-law can only get
him a foreign appointment, how gladly he
will fly from this squalid home for ever.
He pictures a life by the shores of the
Mediterranean, In the forests of Brazil, on
the plains of India, or the Australian
colonies, and each and every one seems a
paradise compared with that which he leads
at present.

Mrs Tresham, putting her little ones to
rest, feels also that, except for them, she
would lay down her existence. She Is
utterly sick and wearied of her life. She is
almost cross with Wilfrid and Bertie and
Fred, because they will bolster one another,
instead of lying down in their cots and
going to sleep like pattern boys. For
Baby Roland Is whimpering for the breast,
and two-year-old May is fractious with the

VOL. I. B

pain of cutting her double teeth. Lily,
her mother's help and companion, is the
only one that waits patiently until her turn
arrives to be undressed. But when the
rest are at last subdued, or satisfied, and
Juliet Tresham turns to attend to her
eldest daughter, her trembling fingers have
busied themselves but for a few seconds
with strings and buttons, before her arms
are cast around the child, and she bursts
into a storm of tears.

Mamma, why do you cry ? ' asks Lily
anxiously.

Oh, Lily, Lily! It is not my fault —
it is not my fault.'

God help her, poor Juliet, it is not !
Almost a girl in years, yet laden with cares
such as few wives in her position are ever
called upon to bear, she has sunk beneath
the weight of an overwhelming load.
Health and energy have failed her, and
her husband's patience has not proved
equal to the occasion, and so irritability
and discontent have crept in on the one
hand, and disgust and indifference on the
other. And yet they loved each other
once, oh ! so dearly, and believed from

their hearts they would have died sooner
than give up their mutual affection.

But Mrs Tresham does not cry long.
She persuades herself that the man downstairs
Is not worth crying for.

Get into bed, Lily, darling, or papa
will be coming up to see what we are
about.'

I didn't kiss papa nor wish him goodnight,'
says the child.

No, no ! it doesn't signify. He doesn't
care for your kisses, nor for mine.'

She tucks her little girl into her bed
and descends to the sitting-room ag^aln,
feeling injured and hard of heart. Roland,
as she enters, glances at her with a look
of disgust.

Your hair Is half way down your back.*
She laughs slightly, and, pulling out the
fastenings of her hair, lets the rippling
mass fall over her shoulders. Roland used
to admire It so much in the days gone by,
and say It was the only gold he cared to
possess. Has she any hope that he will
recall his former feellnofs at the sio^ht of
her loosely falling locks ? If so, she is
mistaken, for he only remarks coldly, —

I mast beg you not to turn my room
into a dressing-room. Go and put your
hair up tidily. I hate to find it amongst
my papers.'

I believe you hate everything except
your own comfort,' she replies. ' You're
the most selfish man I ever came across.'

Perhaps so ! But as long as this house
belongs to me, you'll be good enough to
keep your opinions to yourself. If I can't
have comfort when I come home, I will at
least have peace.'

And much peace / get, day or night.'

It is by your own mismanagement if
you do not.'

How do you make that out ? Has
your want of money anything to do with
my mismanagement ? Have the children
anything to do with it ? You ought to be
ashamed of yourself.'

'Ought I?' he returns, biting his lip.
Then, perhaps, you'll be glad to hear that
I have applied for a foreign appointment
that will take me out to India, or the
Brazils, for the remainder of my life.'

Oh, Roland ! ' she cries, catching her
breath ; * but not to leave us ? '

Certainly to leave you. That was the
sole object of my application. Aren't you
delighted to hear It ? We lead a 
life as things are at present, and the
sooner we are separated the better.'

But the children — and vie /' she gasps,
with a face of chalky whiteness.

Oh, don't be afraid ! you will be provided
for.'

But if you should be 111 ? ' suggests the
woman fearfully.

Then I shall die, perhaps, and so much
the better. You have not made my life
such a heaven to me that I shall lose
much by its resignation.'

Then she falls upon his neck, weeping.

Oh, Roland, Roland ! do not speak tome
like that.'

But he pushes her from him. He has
had no dinner, and that Is a trial that never
improves the masculine temper.

Don't make a fool of yourself! ' he says
roughly.

Juliet raises her head and dries her eyes.
She is a proud woman and a high-spirited
one, and never disposed to take a rebuff
meekly.

I am a fool,' she answers. * Any
woman would be a fool who wasted a
regret upon such an icicle as you are. I
hope to Heaven you may get your appointment
and go out to the Brazils, and never
come back again ; for the less I see and
hear of you the better.'

Just what I said,' remarks her husband
indifferently. ' You are as sick of me as
I am of you, and it's of no use disguising
the truth from one another.'

There was a time when you thought
nothing too good to say of me,' she cries,
hysterically.

Was there ? Well, you can't expect
such things to last for ever, and you have
really made my life such a hell to me of
late that you can't be surprised if I look
forward to any change as a blessing.'

Oh ! It has come to that, has it —
that you want to get rid of me ? Why
don't you put the finishing stroke to your
cruelty and say at once that you hate
me?'

I am afraid you are making me do
something very much like it.'

The truth is, you are tired of me,

Roland ! It is nursing your children and
trying out of our scanty income to provide
for your wants that has brought me down
to what I am, and since I have ceased to
please your eyes, I have wearied out your
fancy

Yes ! my dear,' he says, with provoking
nonchalance. ' You are quite right ; I am
very tired of you, and particularly at this
moment. Suppose you leave me to my
writing, and go to bed.'

Mrs Tresham rushes from the little
room and slams the door behind her. But
she does not go to bed. She takes a seat
amongst her sleeping children, and, resting
her head upon her hands, weeps for the
past which is slumbering like them, although
she thinks it dead. It is just nine
o'clock, and as the hour strikes from a
neighbouring church tower, she sees the
postman coming up the street. He enters
the parterre of chickweed and dandelions,
and gives a double knock at the front door,
whilst Mrs Tresham, sitting at her bedroom
window, wonders vaguely who the
letter can be from. But presently she
hears a shout from below — a mingled

shout of surprise and horror and excitement,
and startled and curious she runs
downstairs to learn the cause.

Her husband's handsome face — flushed
and animated — turns towards her as she
opens the door.

What is the matter ? ' she exclaims
hurriedly.

What is the matter ? ' he repeats.
What Is not the matter .^ My God ! can
it possibly be true ? '

He has leapt from his seat and passed
his fingers through his hair, which is all
on end. His eyes flame like living fire ;
his whole frame is trembling ; she thinks
for the moment that he has gone mad.

Roland, you are frightening me terribly!
Have you had bad news ? '

Bad news ! No. Glorious news ! At
least I suppose I ought not to call It so,
because he's my brother, but he has never
been like a brother to me. Juliet ! Only
fancy — Ralph Is dead, killed by a fall down
the mountain side.'

Oh ! Poor Sir Ralph ! How terrible !
But perhaps It is not true.'

■ It is true. This letter is from Lady

Tresham's nephew, Handley Harcourt,
who was with Ralph at the time of his
death. And they are bringing the body to
England. And — and — can't you understand
? / am Sir Roland Tresham, of
Tresham Court — with ten thousand a-year
to keep it up on, and — Oh, my God ! —
my God ! I believe the news will drive
me mad.'

He casts himself face downwards on the
rickety couch in the corner of the room,
and sobs as if, without that relief, his heart
would burst with joy. Meanwhile his wife
stands motionless, almost unable to comprehend
the sudden change in their condition,
until her husband starts up again,
exclaiming, —

What a child I am. But it only proves
what I have suffered. To be free, once
and for ever, of all this struggling and
starvation — to see my poor children placed
in the position to which they were born —
It is too great a change to be believed In,
all at once. My boys shall enter the
army and navy — and my girls have every
advantage my wealth can procure them.
Oh, it is too much ! It has all happened

so suddenly. I feel as if I should die
before I come into it. Sir Roland Tresham,
of Tresham Court ! Sir Roland Tresham,
of Tresham Court ! Merciful heavens, am
I awake or in a dream ? '

He has never mentioned his wife whilst
enumerating the advantages his new fortune
will bring him. He has never once
congratulated himself on the fact that she
will no longer be obliged to slave and work
and deny herself as she has been used todo.
All he thinks of are the children and
himself

When will you come into all this,
Roland ?' she asks.

I am it now ! I was the Baronet from
the moment of my poor brother's death.'

And shall we go to Tresham Court
soon ? '

Directly the funeral is over. I shall
see the lawyers and Valeria the first thing
in the morning, and know all about it.
But I would rather you went upstairs
and left me alone. I must have time to
become accustomed to the idea of this
wonderful transformation scene. By tomorrow
morning I shall be all right.



Good-night !

Good-night !

There will be
no more trouble about money now. And
Sir Wilfrid shall be at Eton before he
knows what he is about. By Jove ! How
marvellously things do come round.'
He nods her a careless farewell
excited sort of manner, and the new
Tresham creeps up to her bed and

creeps up

m an
Lady
takes

baby Roland in her arms, and sobs herself
to sleep with his chubby face pressed
close against her bosom.

Gresham COURT, GLAMORGANSHIRE.

OW you will be able to take
that trip to Italy with us,' says
the Honourable Mrs Carnaby-
Hicks a few days later, as Sir
Roland and she sit in the artistic drawing-room
in Blue Street together. The funeral
of the late baronet is over — and the new
one is installed in his stead. Lady Tres-ham
and the children are already at the
Court, and Sir Roland has come up to
town to see his sister. ' You can come to
Italy with us,' repeats Mrs Carnaby- Hicks.
You are sadly in need of rest and change,
and it will do you all the good in the world.
You will find our dear Mabel a most

charming companion, and I am sure you
have earned the right to take a holiday ! '

I should enjoy it above all things,'
replies Sir Roland, as he glances at Miss
Moore. * But do you think It would be
advisable. Shall I not be expected to
take up my residence at Tresharn Court,
at all events for a while '^. '

Not a bit of It ! I hope you are not
going to make yourself a slave to your
position. Besides, from what you tell me,
I should imagine It will be all the better
for Lady Tresham to get a little accustomed
to housekeeping before you rejoin
her. She must need practice.'

Sir Roland lifts his hands deprecatingly.

Heaven help my guests If she doesn't
improve ! But there seems to be an excellent
staff of servants down there, and the
majority will remain with us. And it would
be so delightful to get away from it all. I
thirst to leave the remembrance of the
past entirely behind me — when do you
start, Valeria } '

The day after tomorrow ! '

That is sharp work. I shall hardly
have time to do my business here and run

down to Tresham Court and back again ina
couple of days

Why go down to the Court ? There
will only be a scene if you do. Write and
tell Lady Tresham of your intention

*Oh, Sir Roland, I shall never forgive
you if you cry off now interposes Mabel.
You know it was a bargain that you
should go with us if you could. And
aunty means to take Venice on our way.
Fancy Venice and gondolas in this
heavenly weather! It will be too delicious.'


Gondolas and Mabel Moore win the
day, and Sir Roland agrees to write to
his wife instead of going down to Tresham
Court.

Now, you are quite, quite sure you
are not telling us a story,' sa3\s Miss
Moore, with a winning smile, 'because I
know If you go home that Lady Tresham
will not let you return to us again. You
promise only to write, don't you ? '

I promise ! ' repeats Sir Roland, with
an uneasy twinge of conscience nevertheless.
But he keeps his word, and a letter
by the next day's post informs Juliet that

her husband is going to visit Italy with
his sister, and that she must manage
matters at Tresham Court as best she
can until his return. This intelligence
falls upon the wife like a sudden blow.
She feels very strange and awkward as
the mistress of this great rambling house,
with its retinue of servants, but she has
been seizing the opportunity of Sir Roland's
absence to try and become acquainted
with the vicinage of the kitchen
and the housekeeper's room, that she may
astonish him with her aptitude on his
return. And now he is going to leave
her to fight with all her new responsibilities
alone, whilst he is enjoying a trip
upon the Continent. Well, she will not
be so mean spirited a creature as to sit
down and weep for his absence. She
will show him that she can enjoy life as
well as himself when she has the means
to do so. Yet the tears chase themselves
rapidly down her cheeks as she thinks
thus to herself, for Lady Tresham has
two nurses now to look after her children,
and can afford to indulge her feelings without
spectators. It is a bright sunny morning

in the first week of August ; the grounds
of Tresham Court are filled with beautiful
flowers and leafy trees and singing birds,
and the pale-faced, weary woman takes
her husband's letter in her hand, and seats
herself beneath the shade of a cedar tree
on the smooth green lawn, and indulges
her sorrowful thoughts to their fullest
extent.

Presently she hears a soft voice calling
her by name. She looks up in surprise ;
beside her stands an elderly lady, dressed
in widow's weeds.

Your servants said you were not at
home. Lady Tresham, but I caught a
glimpse of your dress through the trees,
and hoped you would not deem it a
liberty if I introduced myself to you as
the widow of your husband's brother.'

Lady Tresham !' cries Juliet, springing
to her feet. * I am glad to see you, but I
am very untidy ; I did not expect any one
to call to-day. I did not even know that
you were in the county.'

I have a house of my own about five
miles from here, but I only returned toit
yesterday. And so you are really Sir

Roland's wife. Why, you are a mere
girl.'

Indeed, you are mistaken. It is a longtime
since I was a girl. I am twenty-six ! '

And I am twenty years older than
yourself, so you see I have a right to
consider you a girl. But you have been
crying. Surely you have no trouble now.
I thought all your troubles lay in the want
of means.'

We were very, very poor,' says Juliet,
with proud simplicity, ' and I am hardly
accustomed to the use of money yet. But
I was crying — it is very foolish of me, I
know, but I cannot help it — because my
husband is going away.'

Going away ! and where ? '

'To Italy, with his sister, Mrs Carnaby-
Hicks. He has been very worried and
upset lately. Lady Tresham, and he wants
change, and I know it will be best for him
but — but — '

You feel the responsibility of being left
alone ; that is very natural. Yet, perhaps,
it will teach you self-dependence. And
for my own part, I am glad Sir Roland is
away just now. I want to make friends

VOL. I. c

with you, my dear ; to help you, if it is
in my power. I know your husband has
thought hard things of me, and, perhaps,
of poor Sir Ralph into the bargain ; butin
what we did we believed we were acting
for the best. Now, all that is over ; you
will neither of you ever want money again,
but you may need advice. And I should
like to begin by advising you. Why do
you not take this trip with your husband 1
You look pale and worn out. It would
do you good as well as him.'

He does not want me,' says Juliet,
sadly ; 'he is only going in order to get
away from me.'

That is hardly possible. You are a
wife of whom any man must be proud.'

I used to be told I was pretty,' replies
Lady Tresham, with a faint blush ; ' but
that was a long time ago.'

Rubbish, child ; you are in your prime.
And you have six children ; and I have
not even one. What a happy woman you
ought to be.'

But Lady Tresham does not answer.
The tears are rising thickly to her eyes,
and falling down her cheeks again.

I would give them all up — yes, everyone
! ' she cries, hysterically, ' to regain
their father's love. Oh, Lady Tresham,
what must you think of me for speaking
like this to an utter stranger ? '

Cease to look on me as a stranger,
then, dear child, and let us be friends.
Cannot I do anything to help you out of
this heavy trouble 1 '

Nothing ; nothing. It is incurable, and
I must bear it as best I can. He loved
me whilst I had the means to make myself
look pretty ; when I had a colour in my
cheeks, and a gloss upon my hair. But I
have lost all that, Lady Tresham. Days
and nights of sickness and privation have
robbed me of my beauty and his love.
And then my temper grew irritable, and
he sickened of his home and me ; and I
shall never know any happiness in this
world again.'

If you have somewhat wearied your
husband's love in poverty, you must regain
it in prosperity,' says Sir Ralph's widow.

Indeed, you do not know him, Lady
Tresham.'

I do not know Sir Roland, my dear,

but I have known many men, and they are
all alike. The philosophy of few of them
will survive their personal discomfort. Sir
Roland will find things very different on
his return to England, and the old feelings
will have an opportunity of revival. Come,
my dear girl, you must not lose heart.'

But I am so ignorant how to order
things aright,' sighs Juliet, ' I have had so
little experience.'

I will be your teacher, if you will permit
me. Tresham Court always had the
credit of being well governed under my
reign. And first, I would make an improvement
in your dress. Such a beautiful
figure was never meant to be concealed
under that clumsy thing.'

I was obliged to get my mourning
ready made,' says Juliet, looking down at
her ill-fitting black robe.

True ; but I must send my dressmaker
to you forthwith. And now let me see the
dear little ones. I love children all the
more that I have never been a mother.'
And so the ladies, already friends, drift
away into that most interesting of feminine
topics, the nursery, and great plans are

laid for the benefit of Juliet's little family
before they separate again. On the same
day Sir Roland is making his final preparations
to join his sister's party, though
not without a few self-reproaches, which
he stifles by recalling the establishment at
Worthily Terrace, Camden Town. It is only
fair, he tells himself, that after so many
years of domestic misery he should use
his unexpected liberty by taking a little
change. And for the first few days the
change bids fair to fulfil its promise. The
Carnaby- Hicks proceed South leisurely,
taking the Rhine on their way, and Sir
Roland can conceive of no more delicious
sensation than floating down the River of
Romance on those balmy August evenings
by the side of Mabel Moore. That young
lady does not spare him in any way. From
the beginning she claims his attendance
for herself, and exercises all her fascination
freely upon the unfortunate man, who
cannot help being attracted by the charms
of her person, and the meaning glances she
so liberally bestows upon him.

What a pity that Juliet has not a more
commanding appearance,' he thinks to

himself, as he watches Mabel's fine form
distinctly outlined in the moonlight. * Miss
Moore has twice her importance ; she
Ipoks as if she had been born to a title.'
And Mabel interrupts his reverie by a
heavy sigh.

Why do you sigh, Miss Moore ? '

I was thinking how unequally this world
is balanced, Sir Roland. Everything goes
wrong, doesn't it ? '

I cannot quite agree with that sentiment
; not, at least, whilst you and I are
floating down the Rhine together.'

But it won't last.'

Not for ever, unfortunately' But let
us enjoy it whilst it does.'

I cannot thoroughly enjoy myself when
I know my pleasure must come to an end.
When I am most happy, I remember that ina
few weeks it will all be over, and we shall
be back in Blue Street, and you down at
Tresham Court with your wife and family.'

Don't talk of it please,' says Sir Roland
with a shudder.

'Why?' asks Miss Moore innocently;
don't you love little children ? '

Not particularly. Do you ? '

I don't care for most people's children,
but I should for yours.'

You are very good to say so', replies
Sir Roland : but he knows they are treading
on dangerous ground, and the subject
had better be dropped. As he lies in his
berth that night, and thinks over the
events of the day, he remembers how his
wife told him before their marriage that
she disliked children, and he had twitted
her with the fact on seeing her devotion to
their firstborn. And he recalls how she
had looked into his face with her large
blue eyes — so clear and lovely and loving
as they were in those days — and whispered,
But this is yours, Roland.' There is
something like a tear in Sir Roland Tres-ham's
eye as he turns uneasily in his
berth, and thinks how those happy days
have faded ; but it is of Juliet, and not of
Mabel, he dreams as he falls asleep. The
Honourable Mrs Carnaby- Hicks sees the
flirtation going on between her niece and
her brother, but does not concern herself
in the matter. Miss Moore knows what
she is about, and is perfectly able to take
care of herself; indeed, Mrs Carnage*

Hicks thinks she can already discern
the instinct by which the young lady is
guided. But Sir Roland, who can only
interpret her words and glances by his
own lights, believes himself to be on the
verge of a precipice, and yet has not the
moral courage to fly from a temptation
that is so flattering to his vanity. Mabel's
chief weapon is melancholy. She professes
melancholy whenever it occurs to
her, until Sir Roland is forced to demand
the reason of her serious looks.

How can you ask ? ' she says one
evening — the first of their arrival in Venice
' when you know that auntie has asked
Lord Ernest Freemantle to join our party
tomorrow ? '

What difference will that make to us ? '

Why, will he not expect to be always
by my side, and break in upon the pleasant
tetes-a-tete we have had together ? '

Have they been so very pleasant to
you then, Mabel .'^'

Oh, Sir Roland, cannot you judge of
my feelings by your own '^. '

If I did that — ' he commences fervently,
but there he stops. The vision of two

blue eyes, dimmed with tears, rises before
him, and he stamps the temptation down.

'Whatever I may feel,' he says to himself
afterwards, ' I will not allow my tongue
to turn traitor,' and so Miss Moore is
disappointed of her answer.

Letters came to him frequently from his
wife — long letters, in which she gives him
a full account of her friendship with Sir
Ralph's widow, but not a word of the way
in which she is managing the household.

I shouldn't think the presence of the
dowager will do much to enliven the
Court,' remarks Mrs Carnage - Hicks
spitefully.

She is not likely to teach my wife
extravagance,' laughs Sir Roland ; * but
Juliet and she seem to get on very well
together.'

Perhaps she is a style that suits Lady
Tresham,' says his sister. ' I have always
understood she was a dowdy and a screw.'

Oh, I don't mean to let my wife screw,'
replies the baronet uneasily. '' She has
had little enough pin-money hitherto, poor
girl, and she shall have a liberal allowance
now, if nothing else.'

'Why do you call LadyTresham "poor?*
whispers Mabel in his ear. * I should have
said she was the richest of women.'

Not quite that,' he answers, wilfully
misunderstanding her, * though she need
have no fear for the future. But she has
had barely enough for comfort until now.'

'She has always had you', says Miss
Moore, softly.

Some ladies might consider that an
extra misfortune ! ^

'Some might,' echoes the girl with a
heavy sigh, the meaning of which it is
impossible to misconstrue. Lord Ernest
Freemantle proves to be a simple, undersized
little gentleman, who is very much
enamoured of Miss Mabel Moore, and
becomes proportionately jealous of Sir
Roland Tresham. And the latter, delighted
at the feeling he has provoked,
takes pleasure in exciting it to the last
degree, by a still closer attendance on the
young lady. One evening, when she has
refused to accompany Lord Ernest and
her aunt on a walking expedition through
the town. Sir Roland persuades her to
go on the water with him in a gondola.

Mabel assents with alacrity, and they are
soon floating together over the placid
surface of the canal, seated under the
canopy at one end of the boat, whilst the
gondoliers ply their oars to the music of
their own voices at the other.

How I wish we could go floating on like
this Into eternity,' remarks Sir Roland,
presently.

It would be very easy,' replies Mabel
in a low voice. * It Is but to cast ourselves
over the side into those dark waters and
sink out of sight for ever. It would bea
happier fate — at least for me — than any
I have to look forward to.'

*You mustn't talk like that. You are
young, and have every prospect of a happy
life before you.'

Indeed, I have not.'

My dear Mabel, why those tears ? '
exclaims Sir Roland, as the girl dashes
her hand across her eyes. * What have I
said to vex you ? '

Nothing. But life is so hard, and —
and — disappointing.*

He passes his arm around her waist.

Tell me what makes it so to you.'

Oh, Roland,' she whispers, 'you know!

The tone, the words, are too much for
him. To hold a pretty woman in his arms
and hear her murmuring her love for himself
would be perhaps too much for any
man. Anyway, it disperses all Sir Roland's
prudence.

'My darling' he says emphatically, 'why
cannot we end all this misery, and live for
each other from this time forward ? ' But
as he speaks, the gondoliers alter their
chant, and strike up a little Neapolitan
barcarolle. It is a simple plaintive air,
without much merit in itself, but the last
time Sir Roland heard it, it came from
Juliet's lips as she was hushing a fractious
child to rest. In a moment the past scene
rises before him. He can see his wife's
drooping figure, the sad look in her eyes ;
can hear the faltering tones of her weary
voice. He recalls, in fact, the mother of
his children, the woman who has borne,
however impatiently, the burden and heat
of the day with him ; and all the best part
of the man's nature rises up to condemn
his present faithless action.

God in heaven ! ' he exclaims aloud ;

what am I saying and doing? Mabel,
forgive me ! It was the madness of a
moment. It shall never he repeated.'

But he has said the words, and they are
not to be unsaid. Miss Moore enjoys the
situation. It appeals to her romantic proclivities,
and she clings to him tightly even
whilst she murmurs.

Oh no ; you mustn't say such things tome.
It is very, very wrong. But, Roland,
to know you love me atones for everything.
I can die happy now.'

Indeed, I had no right to speak to you
in such a manner, but your tears made me
lose sight of prudence. Mabel, promise
me that you will forget what I said.'

Don't ask me that, it will be so sweet
to remember,' she says, still clinging to him.
He tries gently to disengage himself.

Sit back on your seat, there's a good
girl. These fellows are looking at us.
Mabel, try and be calm. We must never
mention this subject again. It is too
painful.'

But why should we deny ourselves the
poor delights of memory, since it Is all that
is left ? '

We must stamp it out. It can lead to
no good for either of us ; and for you,
perhaps, to irreparable harm. I am not a
Trojan in virtue, Mabel ; you must not try
me too hard.'

But you will love me always, Roland,
will you not ? '

What can he say '^. He knows already
that he does not love her at all. But he is
a man, and she is a woman, and he does as
many other men would do — he swears he
shall never cease to care for her.

If I were free ! ' he murmurs ; * but you
see how it is, my darling. I am bound
hand and foot, and we never can be anything
more than we are to one another. I
must not quite forget my poor children.'

But we shall be friends always, shall
we not ? '

The very best and closest of friends,
but we mustn't trust ourselves alone again.
You are too lovely, Mabel, and I — I am
too weak. I am sure you must see the
reason of what I say '^. '

Yes ; yes. But let us enjoy this one
last evening together. Don't go home just
yet. Remember it is for the last time.'

He cannot but yield to her entreaty, but
when they reach the hotel he resolves that
it must never occur again. Mabel Moore
is not the woman to let him off easily.
She will make him remember his avowal
of that evening for ever afterwards, and
Sir Roland feels that his only safety lies in
flight. During the self-reproachful night
that follows, when the thought of his wife
and children rises up to make him acknowledge
that nothing in the whole world could
compensate him for the loss of that which
he has held so loosely, he makes a resolution
to return to Tresham Court the very
next morning. Poor Juliet ! Now he
comes to think of it, he does not believe he
has given her one kiss of congratulation on
her newly-acquired dignity. They were
beginning to be very unhappy in the past,
he knows, but it seems hard now that he
should have visited the entire blame on the
head of the woman who had so much the
heavier portion of the load to bear. When
he rises the following morning his first act
is to seek the apartments of his sister, and
inform her of his determination to return to
England. He finds Mrs Carnage-Hicks

radiantly triumphant, and apparently quite
indifferent as to whether he remains with
them or not.

My dear Roland, you must do just as
you think best, and indeed I have this
moment received news that renders it very
improbable that we shall be able to extend
our trip to Italy this year. Lord Ernest
Freemantle has proposed to our dear
Mabel. Mr Carnage-Hicks is delighted,
and so am I. I have had hopes of such
an occurrence for a long time (for no one
could help seeing how Lord Ernest admired
our dear girl), but your taking her
out in the gondola alone last evening
brought matters to a crisis. And indeed,
were it not for the issue, I should feel almost
disposed to quarrel with you, Roland,
for being so careless of her reputation. It
might have turned matters just the other
way. You are too young and handsome to
play such freaks with an unmarried girl.'

From what you say, then, I may conclude
Miss Moore has accepted Lord
Ernest's offer.'

Why, of course ! What else should she
do ? And as he is anxious the marriage

should take place as soon as possible, I
suppose we shall have to go home again.'

Then, will you convey my warmest congratulations
to the bride-elect, and tell her
that I trust we shall meet again in England?'

Won't you stop and see her yourself ? '

I think not — thanks ! I see there is a
midday train to Paris, which I can catch
if I lose no time. So I will wish you
good-bye at once, Valeria ! '

Good-bye, my dear Roland ! We shall,
as you say, soon meet again, and I think
you are wise to return, for I am afraid all
our fun is over for this season ! '

The midday train takes him to Paris,
and the next day he finds himself on his
road to Glamorganshire. The carriage in
which he travels is filled with men, all
strangers to him, but who converse freely
with one another.

Have you seen the new owner of Tres-ham
Court, Conway ? ' asks one fellow of
his neighbour.

What, Sir Roland ? Not yet ! He is
abroad, so I am told, and won't be home
till Christmas ! '

By George ! Well, if I were the owner

VOL. I. D

of Lady Tresham the country wouldn't seeme
that didn't hold her ! '

Is she so handsome then ?'
* She's better than handsome ! She's
one of the sweetest-looking women I ever
saw. I met her at General Carroll's last
week with the dowager.'

Fair or dark } '

Fair as a lily, with glorious golden hair,
and great blue eyes as clear as spring
water. She's as graceful as a gazelle, too,
and got a voice like a thrush. She said
she was awfully out of practice, but she
sung better than anyone there.'

I shall get my mother to take me over
to Tresham Court,' says a young dandy in
the corner ; ' a pretty woman is not to be
despised in Glamorganshire.'

You won't get anything by that, my
boy,' says the first speaker. * Handley
Harcourt, the dowager's nephew, has
found her out already, and is there morning,
noon, and night.'

Sir Roland is just about to proclaim that
the beautiful woman they speak of is his
wife, when the last sentence makes him
shrink back in his seat instead. He feels

ashamed to acknowledge her now. What
if the scandal should be true ! But no, it
is impossible ! Juliet has been his wife
for eight long years, and faithful to him in
thought, word, and deed. He would answer
for her fidelity as for his own. His ow7i /
At that thought the hot blood courses
through Sir Roland's veins, and mantles
in his handsome face. He has not been
faithful to her — he acknowledges it with
shame — but he will atone as there is a
heaven above him.

Gentlemen,' he says suddenly, * the lady
you speak of is my wife, and had you all
been at Tresham Court during my absence,
morning, noon, and night,' it would not
have given me a moment's uneasiness.'
His confession is naturally followed by
apologies, introductions, hand-shaking, and
general invitations to the Court. Sir Roland
even assures the somewhat shy lite
dandy in the corner that he has his hearty
permission to flirt with Lady Tresham as
much as possible. And then they all light
up and try each other's cigars, and become
the fastest of friends in a very few minutes.
Yet as he leaves them at the station, where

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF /LLfNOfS

the carriage is in waiting to convey him
home, he cannot help wondering at the
enthusiasm his wife's looks have provoked
amongst them. She ttsed to be very pretty
in their first wedded days, before she grew
so careless of her personal appearance —
when she took pride in arraying her graceful
little form, and dressing her beautiful
hair, but slatternly clothes and unbecoming
coiffure are sufficient to conceal the
beauty of any woman. Well ! Sir Roland
supposes that such things can be altered,
but if he finds that Juliet's bad taste is irreparable,
he will be content with her as she
is. He has brought enough trouble on her
head already — the present shall never beclouded
by his reproaches nor complaints.
He is so eager to make atonement for the
past, that the ^^^ miles between the station
and Tresham Court appear like ten ; but they
are accomplished at last, and the carriage
rolls through the iron gates and up the
wooded drive. Half-way they come upon
a group of children escorted by their nurses
and a groom. Two beautiful boys in velvet
suits, with golden curls falling over
their Vandyke collars, are mounted on op

pony, whilst another animal carries a pair
of panniers, from which familiar little faces
and blue eyes gaze up expectantly to meet
his own.

Can those be my children ? ' exclaims
Sir Roland to himself; and then he gives
the order to stop, and another minute sees
him in the midst of them. But what a
change ! He can scarcely believe they
are the same brats who, six weeks ago,
used to hang over the garden palings in
Camden Town, and put out their tongues
at the passers-by — Lily and May in their
white frocks and black ribbons, and little
Roland in his smart pelisse ; and the boys
looking such noble fellows in their jackets
and knickerbockers, with sunny hair, and
clean faces and hands — it seems like a
dream to the father as he kisses them all
round, and admires the ponies and the
panniers to their hearts' content. He
strides on to the house with his bosom
swelling with pride at the appearance of
his little ones, and is almost too pre-occupied
to notice that everything is perfectly
arranged within the Court and out.

A footman meets him at the door with

the information that her ladyship awaits
him in the morning-room, and thither, still
in a dream. Sir Roland rapidly proceeds.
As he enters the apartment he starts back,
thunderstruck with amazement. A lady
stands upon the hearth rug — a woman delicately
fair, and very lovely, though still
too thin and pale, and with tears of expectation
and suspense within her eyes.

She is robed in black velvet, fitting
closely to her graceful figure — at her throat
and wrists are falls of Venetian lace — and
her dainty feet are cased in silk stockings
and buckled shoes. Her golden hair cut
short upon her brow, is piled in innumerable
little curls upon the top of her head,
which grow longer and longer until they
lay in a flossy mass upon her neck and
shoulders. For a moment. Sir Roland
gazes at this unlooked-for apparition in
utter silence.

Husband ! ' says Juliet shyly, * don't
you know me ? '

My dearest !' he exclaims, rushing forward
and clasping her in his arms ; ' how
beautiful you have become.'

Then, with the touch of his arms and

lips, all her womanhood asserts itself, and
she casts herself, sobbing, on his breast.

Oh, Roland ! forgive me ! forgive me !
Take me back and love me as you used
to do ! '

What have I to forgive you, darling ?

All my ill-temper and impatience and
want of fortitude. I bore our lot so
badly — I did not deserve to have it
bettered — and now that prosperity has
come to us, I feel it will be worthless
without your love.'

But you have my love, Juliet ! you
have never lost it. The ills and discomforts
of poverty soured my nature, and
made me behave like a brute to you ; but
my heart has been yours through it all,
dearest wife, and I have never been more
convinced of the fact than during our
present separation.'

She looks up at him and smiles — oh !
such a heavenly smile of renewed happiness
and hope.

And, Roland, you are quite, quite sure
that you love me best of all the world !
That there is no other woman dearer
to you than myself*'

He has just one twinge as she puts the
question to him ; but men are used to
twinges, and he can answer honestly, —

Not one, my love ! — not a single one !
nor ever shall be. Take your husband's
word for it, and let us resolve from this
moment to banish the painful memory of
the Past, and live for each other only in
the Future

And so they have and do, and there is
only one thing that Lady Tresham cannot
understand, which is Sir Roland's rooted
aversion to Lady Ernest Freemantle. He
will not let his wife invite her down to
Tresham Court, although she has often
hinted she would like to visit them, and
all the excuse he can give for his conduct
is that he does not choose to cultivate the
lady's acquaintance.

So the matter rests, and as long as Sir
Roland does not renew it, there is no
need he should confess the little scene
that took place in the gondola on the
moonlighted Venice canal.

THE END.

CHAPTER I.

MUSHIN-BUNDA.

UNE 4//^, 18 — . — Thermometer
at 100 in the shade, and up to
heaven knows where In the sun ;
somewhere about boiling heat, I
should Imagine, if I may judge by the state
of my shirt sleeves. A cheerful climate in
which to ask a man to spend the best days
of his life, for the visionary prospect of surviving
twenty years' service and retiring
on half-pay. If it were not for Janle, I
could not stand it. Here we are, cooped
up in an old Dutch fort, with three miles
of desert plain between us and the sea ;
the very house we live in built on the

remains of a cemetery ; the ruined graves
of which stare us in the face every time
we look out of the drawing-room windows.
The consequence of which is, that Janie
would not stay in the house by herself after
dark for any earthly consideration ; and if
she cannot procure a female friend to dance
attendance on her fears, I am cut out of
my bachelor entertainments. Not that I
wish to complain ; far from it ; it would be
hard if I could not give up some pleasures
in exchange for such a wife as mine — but
I have found it awkward at times. Then
we have no society but such as the regiment
affords ; and as a married man I am, of
course, not so much at the mess as heretofore.
Altogether Mushin-Bunda is not
lively ; and my wife is the only creature
who makes it bearable to me.

I don't wonder that the whole cantonment
voted me a lucky fellow when I
obtained the promise of her hand. The
first time I ever saw her at the house of
her married sister — the wife of Delvile, of
our 44th, since ordered to Burma — I
thought her the prettiest, most lovable little
woman I had ever seen ; and during the

twelve months of our happy married Hfe, I
have had no reason to alter my opinion.
Janie is all that a man could possibly desire
in a wife ; and so I tell myself twenty times
a day. Never have I seen her face clouded
with passion or ill-humour : whatever I
propose to do is invariably the thing she
has just been wishing for ; she never dissents
from me either in opinion or desire ;
she never even meets me without the same
quiet smile, which has deservedly gained
her the credit of being such ' a very sweet
young woman.' She is a cushat-dove,
made to nestle into a man's affections and
to remain there ; for who with a heart
could bear to wound the feelings of one so
sensitive and pure ? I don't believe at
this moment, that in all the length and
breadth of India there exists a happier or
more contented fellow than myself ; and if
we only had a little more society, a little
company occasionally to turn our thoughts
from dwelling incessantly upon ourselves,
our life would leave nothing to be desired.
Not but what my Janie is the world to me ;
still, a woman is but a woman after all, and
the days are apt to become monotonous.

Oh, this horrid Mushin-Bunda ! could
anything reconcile me to a life-long expatriation
in a place like this ? The very
thought is desolation.

ytme 6tk. — Two days ago I was complaining
of the lack of company to be found
in Mushin-Bunda. This evening I feel
inclined to write myself down an ass, and
say that my foolishness has returned upon
my own pate, for we are likely to have
more company than we care for. I was
in the verandah this morning smoking and
grumbling, and as I turned from the contemplation
of the glaring compound to
where Janie sat in her white dress, bending
over some letters she had just received, I
decided she was the only cool thing within
my range of sight. The dogs were lying
panting on the gravel with their tongues
out. The constant motion of the flapping
punkah did not appear to do more than stir
the heat. Even the quiet easy-going tailor
sitting cross-legged at my feet, could not
proceed with his work unless he dipped
his black fingers every minute in a bowl of
water. Everything looked hot, horrible,
and sticky, except Janie herself. But

there sat my cushat-dove — half burled in
the flounces of her mush dress — a fair,
pimp, placid little woman ; the effect of
heat on whom is only to make her look
more white and cool, with her sunny hair
drawn off her tranquil features, and her
calm blue eyes riveted on the open letter
which she held in her hand. None of
your passionate, raving, storming creatures
this, who nearly squeeze you to death one
moment, and stick a knife into you the
next ; but a proper sort of woman fora
wife and mother, or so I choose to
call her ; and I really couldn't take my
eyes off her moonlight beauty, until I was
roused from my reverie by hearing her
plaintive voice exclaiming, —

Oh dear ! oh dear ! how very unfortunate
! Whatever will the poor girl
do?'

Of whom are you talking, my darling ? *
I asked, as I cast away the remains of my
cigar, and advanced towards her.

Of my cousin Lionne, Robert dear ;
Margaret Anstruther, of whom I have so
often spoken to you. I told you sometime
ago, didn't I, that in consequence of

her mother's death she was coming out to
the care of our uncle, Colonel Anstruther,
at Madras ? '

Well, what of it ? Has she arrived ? *
*No; but this letter is from Uncle Henry,

and he is in such a dilemma. He expected
Margaret to be with him four or
five mails ago ; but her guardians have
delayed and delayed to send her out ; and
now, just as he is ordered off to China
to join his regiment, he receives a letter
to say that she will arrive by the next
steamer.'

And he will have left Madras ? '

Yes ; and for six months at least. He
does not know what on earth to do about
it.'

And Janie, in an uncertain manner,
kept turning the sheet of paper over andover
in her hands.

He must ask one of his lady friends
to receive Miss Anstruther,' I suggested.

So he would, Robert, were it not for
so lone a time. But a six months* visit is
too much to expect from any stranger. If
Emma were only here. Uncle Henry would
have sent Margaret to her.'

It Is certainly very Inconvenient,' I
remarked carelessly.

I suppose, Robert dear,' said Janle, Ina
dubious and hesitating manner, — ' I suppose
we could not offer to take In Margaret
till Uncle Henry returns from China?'

I started. The Idea had not presented
itself to me before, and It was certainly
not a pleasant one. I hope I am not of
an Inhospitable turn of mind ; but the
prospect of having a perfect stranger located
beneath our roof for such a length
of time was anything but agreeable to me.
I remembered Janie's want of companionship,
and the many times I had had to
resign the society of my brother-officers on
her account, and felt resigned ; but the
next moment I thought of all my quiet
evenings with my loving little wife being
broken In upon ; of our cosy walks, and
talks, and drives being done away with,
and for six long months — and I daresay I
did look blank. Indeed, I must have done
so ; for Janie, who Is not, generally speaking,
what is termed quick of observation,
saw the change In my countenance and
commented upon It.

'You don't like the notion, Robert dear ? '
she said, in a tone of disappointment.

Well, Janie, I can't say I do ; but if it
must be, it must be. What does your
uncle say on the subject ? '

He says it would be a great convenience,
of course, and that he does not know
to whom else to apply, or he would not
trouble us. And Margaret and I were at
school together, Robert : we were brought
up quite like sisters ; so it would seem
strange if she were to go to anyone else.
And it is only for six months ; and Uncle
Henry says that he does not expect us to
be put to any expense about it, for that
he—'

Oh, blow the expense ! ' I irreverently
interrupted. ' When does Colonel An-stretcher
leave Madras, Janie ?'

Next week ; and Margaret is to arrive
the week after.'

And what arrangements can he make
for her joining us at Mushin-Bunda 1 '

Mrs Grant, a friend of his, has offered
to receive Margaret on her arrival, and to
keep her until a steamer starts for here,
which will probably not be long first.'

Very well. Write to your uncle, and
say that we shall be proud to give Miss
Anstruther house-room until such time ashe
may be able to reclaim her.'

And you're not vexed about it, Robert
dear ? ' said Janie timidly.

I stooped and kissed her.

Not a bit, darling,' I answered gaily.
'Half-a-dozen cousins could make no
difference to our love ; and as long as that
remains unaltered, I care for nothing else.'
Upon which my little wife brightened up
again, and prepared to write an answer
to her uncle's letter ; and I lit another
cigar, and resumed my old position in the
verandah.

I told Janie that the stranger's coming
could make no difference to me; but I feel
that I have not spoken the truth in saying
so, and I blame myself for thinking as
strongly as I do upon the subject. Surely
I am swayed by prejudice.

After all, supposing that Miss Anstruther
does remain with us during the whole of
her uncle's sojourn in China, where will bethe
great misfortune of entertaining a young
lady for a few months ? and how could

VOL. I. E

we have done otherwise than offer to receive
a friendless girl, arriving in the country
under such peculiar circumstances ? who
has also, by marriage, become a connection
of my own, and been reared in such intimate
relations with my wife, as to be
looked on by Janie almost in the light of a
sister. It would have been quite impossible
to act otherwise ; therefore I feel
I had better make a virtue of a necessity.
At the same time, try as I will, I cannot
bring myself to look on the anticipated
visit as a pleasure, although I am sure that
much of my prejudice arises from my wife's
innocent praises of her cousin, which prove
Miss Anstruther to be so opposite, in
appearance and disposition, to herself, that
I feel I shall never like the girl. Well, I
was wishing for more society in Muslin
and now I shall have it. Someone
to dance attendance on, and to mind
my p's and q's before, for the next six
months ; and if I haven't had enough of
society before the end of that time, it's a
pity. Warren says it's all nonsense ; that
he had a friend of his wife's once staying
in the house for several weeks, and that it

was great fun ; and that before Miss An-stretcher
has been with us half that time, I
shall look on her as a sister, and forget all
about my p's and q's.

I laugh at the idea, and pretend to agree
with him ; but it is of no use ; a presentiment
of annoyance for me seems to cling
to the name of Margaret Anstruther, until
I wish I had never even heard its sound.
However, as I said to my wife, what must
be, must be, and the best method of evading
a worry is not to think about it.
Easier said than done !

June i6tk. — If anything were necessary
to make me take a still farther dislike to
the idea of our expected guest, it would
be provided in the fact that Janie and I
have nearly come to words about her, for
the first time in our married life.

Come, darling,' I said to her this evening,
when at last the fierce sun had sunk
below the horizon, and it was possible to
quit the house ; ' put on your hat, and let
us have a little stroll in the compound
together, we may not have many more
opportunities of walking alone.'

Our * compound,' as the ground surrounding

an Indian bungalow is usually
called, is a large piece of uncultivated
land, sheltered by lanky cocoa-nut trees,
and carpeted with burnt-up turf from end
to end, whereof is cut a sandy track, which
we term our carriage-drive.

Janie was ready in a moment, and up and
down the track of sand we wandered, arm-in-arm,
inhaling eagerly the faint breath
of sea-air wafted to us from across the
plain which separates us from the ocean.

• * Oh, Robert dear ! ' said Janie, casting
up her pensive blue eyes to meet my own,

I wish I had never written that letter to
Uncle Henry. I am more sure every day
that you don't like the notion of Lionne
staying with us.'

I can't think what put the letter or her
cousin into my wife's head at that particular
moment ; for I have not alluded to the
subject for several days past.

My dearest child,' I answered her,

whether I like it or not is of little consequence.
There is no alternative ; therefore
we must bear the infliction as best we
may. Thank heaven, it will not be for ever.'

But you are not to look upon it as an infliction,

Robert,' said Janie, as she squeezed
my arm, ' because, directly you see Margaret,
you will like her.'

I shrugged my shoulders incredulously.

^•But indeed you will,' continued my
little wife with, for her, a most unusual
display of energy. ' You don't know how
nice-looking she is ; tall and slight, with
large dark eyes and — '

Yes, yes, I know,' I interrupted impatiently.
' Six feet high, and gaunt as a
cab-horse, with flaming black eyes and
hair, and a complexion like Spanish olives.
I know the sort of woman, Janie ; you've
described her to me often enough. The
less said about her beauty the better.'

But she's not a bit like that,' said dear
little Janie, almost ready to cry at my
description of her cousin. ' Lionne is very
graceful and exceedingly handsome ; everyone
says so. Indeed, Robert dear, you
are quite mistaken.'

She won't be handsome to me,' I answered,
appeasing her with a kiss, * since
she must be so different from yourself,
Janie. Nothing will go down with me,
darling, except it be golden hair and a

marble skin ; and then they must be the
hair and the skin of but one woman in the
world And I looked into the face of my
cushat-dove until I made her blush and
laugh nervously with her tremulous happiness.
Dear little Janie ! God keep me
ever true to her ! — * Why do you call your
cousin '* Lionne," instead of by her proper
name ? * I asked, as soon as the billing and
cooing episode had somewhat subsided,
and we had leisure to revert to the subject
under discussion. * Margaret is pretty
enough, and the other has no connection
with it, let alone its signification rendering
it very unsuitable for a lady.'

At this question my wife reddened ; but,
after a little pressing, confessed it was a
nickname which had been bestowed on
Miss Anstruther at school.

She is a dear, generous creature, Robert
dear,' she pleaded ; * but just a little hasty,
or at least she used to be ; but of course
she will have got over all that by this
time' (not so sure, thought I); 'and we
girls used to call her ' La Lionne ' just for
fun, you know, and somehow the name
stuck to her. Oh, you should have seen

her in a rage ! ' continued Janie, warming
beneath the recollection ; * her eyes used
to flash such glorious fire, and she didn't
seem to care what she did. Once, when I
offended her, she flew at me just like a
little cat, and bit me on the arm.' And
Janie laughed softly at the remembrance
which made my blood boil.

What a she-devil ! ' I exclaimed indignantly,
as I thought of the fair flesh, of
which I was so tender, lacerated by the
teeth of a gaunt school-girl with vicious
black eyes. ' I should like to have caught
her at it ! '

Then Janie seemed to think she had
said too much, and tried to retract.

Oh, but, Robert dear 1 ' she exclaimed,
she is very different now, you know ;
that all happened long ago ; and though
we still call her Lionne, it is seldom that
she ever gives way to her temper. I have
not seen her for some years ; but when
we last met we had not a word together
during the whole period of her stay.'

*And howlongmaythat have been, Janie .'^'

For three weeks ; and she was so pleasant
and kind, you can't think.'

Three weeks ! I groaned in my spirit ;
and we are to endure six months of the
company of this lady who is called Lionne,
in compliment to the amiability of her
disposition, and bites and scratches like a
cat whenever she is offended. I began to
think of clothing myself and my wife in
mail armour during the period of her stay,
so that we might be invulnerable to her
attacks ; but a remark to that effect to
Janie seemed greatly to discompose her.

It is not fair of you, Robert dear,* she
said, with knitted brows, * to take my confidence
in such a spirit. It is all nonsense
to suppose that Margaret will be like that
now ; she is a charming girl, who is universally
admired.'

I am delighted to hear it,' I replied
sarcastically. * I hope, however, that she
won't take a liking to me ; or that, if she
does, she will keep her charming teeth to
herself.'

I daresay you won't be troubled with
her long,' exclaimed Janie, with a degree
of excitement which I foresaw would end
in tears. * Margaret attracts lovers whereever
she goes, and we shall have her engaged

and married most likely before she
has been many weeks in Mushin-Bunda.

Worse and worse,' I inadvertently replied.
* If I thought that was to be the
end of it, Janie, I should cut and run at
once.'

Visions of my brother officers lounging
about the drawing-room all day, and snarling
at each other like rival curs — of a
wedding, and all the paraphernalia and
fuss attendant on it — made me give vent to
the horror which I felt in the anticipation.

Ah ! you didn't think it all so horrid a
year ago ! ' said my wife, melting into the
promised tears ; * but I suppose you have
forgotten that by this time, or wish, perhaps,
that it had never been.'

The conclusion struck me as unreasonable
; but when women arrive at that stage
they are not in a fit state to be argued
with, and are best left alone.

It's very different when one plays first
fiddle in the case, dear child,' I answered
soothingly ; but Janie was no longer in a
humour to be soothed.

I don't believe you think so, Robert,' she
said ; ' and as for poor Lionne, I 'm sure — '

Oh, for heaven's sake ! let's talk of
something else than poor Lionne ! ' I answered
hastily. * I'm sure we've had
enough of her for one evening ; and, for
my part, I'm getting quite sick of her
name.'

It was a foolish, unthinking speech to
make ; and Janle took It so thoroughly to
heart, that she walked away from my side
Into the house, and had cried herself sick
and 111 before I had the manliness to find
her out and ask her pardon for my rudeness,
and promise to try and like her
cousin for her sake. I must be more careful
of Janle. She Is not strong enough to
endure much emotion ; and she loves me
so tenderly, that the least suspicion of
unkindness on my part upsets her.

Well, this Is the first shadow of a disagreement
that we have ever had ; may It
be the last ! That It has occurred on the
subject of Margaret Anstruther, is not
likely to Increase my predilection In favour
of that young lady.

June T eth. — I did not go to bed till late
last evening, for I was vexed at what had
taken place between myself and Janie, and

could not readily compose myself to sleep.
However, I did so at last, vowing to endure
all the cousins in creation fastened upon me
for all time, sooner than bring another needless
tear into the tender eyes of my cushat-dove
; and was wakened at gun-fire this
morning by the intelligence that the Ostrich
(the steamer by which we expected Miss
Anstruther to arrive) was telegraphed from
Coeranapoot, and would be off Muslin
in the course of a few hours.

Owing to the agreeable peculiarities of
the place we live in, I was obliged at once
to rise from my bed, and prepare to ride
down to the fort, the currents here being of
such a nature that vessels cannot come
within a couple of miles of land ; and if
boats are not ready on their arrival to convey
the passengers on shore, they carry
them on without ceremony to the next port.
I wakened Janie with a dozen kisses,
begged and prayed of her to think no more
of what happened last night, assured her
that I intend to be all that is amiable, and
learn to like her cousin as much as she
does, and having thrown myself into my
clothes, departed full of good resolutions,

leaving her childish face radiant with smiles,
and beaming In expectation of the coming
meeting.

As I turned my horse out of the compound,
I met a brother officer, Forster byname,
also mounted, and riding apparently
in the same direction.

Where are you off to so early ? ' I
inquired.

I am going on board the Ostrich he
replied, * to try and get a sight of my friend
Dunn, who Is to cross to Burma In her.
Will you come with me 1 '

It Is where I am bound for. I am on
my way to meet Miss Anstruther, my wife's
cousin.'

Lucky dog ! ' said Forster. He is one
of those fellows who Imagine that no age,
position, or circumstances are powerful
enough to prevent a man admiring a pretty
woman. * If all I have heard about her
from Dunn is true, you are not likely to
have your house much to yourself whilst
Miss Anstruther is In It, Norton.'

Well, I shall go out of it, then,' I answered,
not over pleased at the notion of
never being left in peace with Janie.

Dunn says she's beautiful. I didn't
know you expected her in the Ostrich.
He'll never believe now that I went onboard
with the intention of seeing himself

He must have but a small opinion of
your friendship for him.'

Ah, yes, perhaps ; but this is not an
ordinary occasion. From all I hear, Norton,
Miss Anstruther must be — you'll
excuse my saying so — a regular out-and-outer.'


Indeed! You know more about her
than I do. She has not been above a
week or ten days in Madras.'

I know ; but Dunn was introduced to
her in England, and quite excited to find
she had come out to this country. Will
she remain long with you ? '

Till Colonel Anstruther returns from
China,' I replied, with an inward sigh.

Lucky fellow ! ' repeated Forster, with a
grin. ' Don't you wish he may lay his
venerable bones there ? '

I did not feel equal to pursuing this
conversation in the strain which Forster
evidently expected of me, and so I tried to
turn it.

The tide is very high to-day,' I remarked,
as we rode into the fort, and came
in sight of the sea.

By Jove ! so it is ; and yesterday it
barely washed the landing-quay. What
a sell it would be, Norton, if some day
this sea, with its changeable tides, was to
take it into its head to overflow the fort
and flood the cantonment ! '

How could it ? ' I exclaimed, hastily.

The idea is ridiculous, and as ridiculous
my feeling annoyed at it, for I have never
heard it mooted by any one before ; and
yet it is not a pleasant one ; for the plain
is so very level, and we have no protection
whatever from the encroachments of the
ocean.

Well, I don't know,' he answered ; ' but
I think I've read of such things. It would
be a regular washing for these poor devils
in the fort, though, wouldn't it ? '

Don't talk of anything so horrible ! ' I
answered.

And then we hailed a boat ; and dismounting
from our horses, gave them into
the charge of their native grooms, and
were soon dancing over the sunny waves.

It was dancing with a vengeance ; for the
cross-currents are so various, that at one
moment we were driven a long way out
of our course, and the next shot back again
in the opposite direction with a rapidity
which threatened to upset the frail structure
to which we had trusted ourselves.
Meanwhile the Ostrich steamed slowly
into sight, and took up her station at the
usual distance from land ; whilst we beat
about the harbour for more than an hour,
wondering if we should ever board her ; and
half afraid, more than once, that she would
depart again without our having accomplished
it. But we were successful at last ;
and the first object which I saw on reaching
the deck was the figure of a girl, sitting
apart by herself in a distant and reserved
manner, which I immediately singled out
as that of Miss Anstruther, and the sequel
proved that I was right.

Is Miss Anstruther on board?' was
the query which Forster put to his friend
Dunn, as they met at the head of the
gangway.

Yes, she is,' was the reply ; * but I can't
say I've seen much of her. She seems

very different from what she was in England
last year. But I think she hates this
country, and — '

Dunn, this is my friend Captain Norton
; allow me to introduce you. Mrs Norton
is Miss Anstruther's cousin, Dunn ; he
has come on board expressly to meet her.'

Oh yes, of course ; very happy, I'm
sure,' said Mr Dunn ; and in consequence
no farther allusion was made to Miss
Anstruther's likes or dislikes.

Meanwhile I found the captain, and got
him to introduce me to the young lady.
It was a proud cold face which she turned
towards me as my name was mentioned
to her, and the hand she offered lay very
passive in my grasp ; but she said all that
was pleasant and polite, and intimated that
her luggage was ready to be put into the
boat, and she to follow me at any time, so
that there was no reason for delay ; and
after I had assured her how eagerly Janie
was on the look-out for her arrival, and
she had bidden adieu to the captain, we
prepared to return to shore. We were
obliged to have two boats on account of
the luggage ; and what was my surprise to

see Forster slip down after us into the
second, as though he were one of the
party.

You have deserted the company of
your friend Dunn very quickly,' I remarked
to him. ' The Ostrich does not leave
for another hour. I thought you were
going to breakfast on board.'

I thought of doing so,' he answered
carelessly (he had been talking of nothing
else on our way there) ; ' but perhaps it's
better not — might miss the boat, you see,
which would be awkward. Will you introduce
me to Miss Anstruther ?'

I went through the required formula ;
but after the customary acknowledgment of
it. Miss Anstruther took no further notice
of Mr Forster or myself, and the conversation,
after several ineffectual attempts to
draw her into it, was kept up between us
alone. Meanwhile, I could not help stealing
an occasional glance to where my wife's
cousin sat, calm and silent, gazing on the
bright glancing waters, and answering the
occasional remarks directed to her with a
smile which was almost too faint to be
called so. Only once did I see the express

I. F

son of her face change ; and that was when
the cross-current caught the boat and drove
It all slanting and edgeways, like a bird
across the bay, with a velocity which, for
the moment, considerably unsettled each of
us. She grew a little paler then, and I saw
her hand (rather a nice hand, by-the-bye)
grasp the seat which she occupied ; but
still she said nothing.

Don't be frightened, Miss Anstruther,'
I interposed hastily ; * there is no real
danger. The native boatmen are so skilful
that it is very seldom a boat is upset here.'

Thank you,' she murmured, in answer
to my information, and for a moment her
eyes met mine (she has fine eyes, certainly) ;
and the next time the boat was driven out
of her course I saw, by the unmoved expression
of her face, that she remained at
ease.

I suppose it was very courageous, and
all that sort of thing ; but I don't think I
liked her any the better for it. A woman,
in my idea, is a creature to be protected,
and not to take care of herself. I remember
how Janie shrieked and screamed and
clung to me when I brought her on shore

in one of those very boats ; and I think I
should have Heed it better if Miss An-stretcher
had exhibited a little more fear.
However, everybody is not like my Janie.
When we landed at the fort, Forster, who
is our adjutant, was obliged to leave us,
and allow me to take my guest home in a
carriage ; but though she talked a little
more when we found ourselves alone, she
was anything but sociable ; and I was
thankful when we had turned into our own
compound, and I could tell her to lookout
for Janie on the steps. There was my
little bird, of course ; all fluttering with
pleasure at the delight of meeting her
cousin again ; and as soon as Miss An-stretcher
had reached the porch she flew
into her arms, and her happiness found
vent in a burst of excited tears. I expected
to see the stranger follow suit,
knowing that women often cry most when
they are most pleased ; but not a drop fell
from her eyes. She clasped my wife very
closely to her, it is true, and I saw her lip
and nostril twitching ; but she showed no
further signs of emotion, though Janie did
tell me that, after they had passed into the

bedroom together, her cousin indulged In
what she technically termed ' a good cry.'
However, of this I knew nothing. The
two girls (Janle is but eighteen, and Miss
Anstruther a year older) remained closeted
together for more than an hour ; and when
they reappeared at the breakfast-table they
looked as fresh as their muslin dresses,
and as far from tears as the day was from
rain.

And now, what am I to say of Miss
Anstruther's personal appearance ? She
is certainly very different from what I
imagined — altogether different. I will acknowledge
so far ; and yet I don't know if
I am agreeably surprised in her or not.
She is tall and slight, though not at all
thin, with a lithe figure which reminds
me of a leopard or some such animal ; and
every time she moves I expect to see her
take a waving serpentine leap which shall
land her noiselessly on the opposite side
of the room ; which peculiarity brings so
forcibly to my mind her nickname of
Llonne ' that I have very nearly called
her by It more than once to-day. Her
complexion Is pale and sallow (Janie calls

it ' creamy ' — so I suppose that is the right
name for it), and her eyes, which are
enormous (much too big, in my opinion ;
I disHke starting eyes m animals or
women), are black, and very variable in
their expression. Her nose is straight,
and rather sharp ; and she has an absurdly
short upper lip, with a deep channel in the
centre of it — in fact, scarcely any upper
lip at all. But she has a pretty set of
teeth (I record this fact to show that I
am not permitting myself to be in the
least swayed by prejudice), and apparently
a large quantity of dark hair — at least
Janie tells me that when unbound it
reaches to her knees.

Still, although doubtless she can boast
of some good features, to call such a
woman beautiful is absurd ; and one has
only to see her stand side by side with my
rosebud wife to perceive the worse points
which she possesses. It brings out at
once, as I made Janie laugh by observing,
all the yellow that is in her. She is not
so plain, perhaps, as I expected ; but
beautiful ' is the last epithet I should
apply to Margaret Anstruther. No woman

who IS not fair can possibly be pretty ; and
how any man can prefer a dark face is tome
inexplicable.

June \%th. — She certainly is a most
extraordinary girl, and even more disagreeable
than I thought her yesterday.
We really got on so well together the first
day ; she chatted so pleasantly during the
forenoon to Janie and myself, and sung tous
in the evening (she has not got a bad
voice by any means), that I began to think
I had made a mistake about her cold, reserved
manner, and that if her visit were
to last for six weeks instead of six months,
it might not prove such an affliction. And
so, wishing to make myself agreeable, I
told Janie this morning at breakfast that
she must be sure and order a very good
dinner, as I intended to ask some of my
brother officers to dine with us. I knew
that Forster and others were anxious to
make Miss Anstruther's acquaintance ; and
a bright thought struck me this morning,
that if I manage well we may get her engaged
and married, and out of the way
altogether in the course of a month. Of
course, it will be a great deal of bother;

but It will be much better to get it over in
that manner than to have it spun out for
several months, and to wind up perhaps
with a wedding after all. So I have determined
to be very hospitable, and keep
open house for the next few weeks ; and
I shan't let Janie interfere with her cousin
in any way ; and we will see what that
will do. My wife opened her blue eyes
when I informed her of the impending
guests, and said no one had called on Miss
Anstruther yet.

Of what consequence is that ? ' I said.
The whole regiment will call this morning,
and I know they will be dying for an invitation
afterwards ; ' and I nodded in a
knowing manner at Miss Anstruther, as
much as to say that I knew all about it.

I hope you do not invite them on my account,*
she said curtly, answering my look.

I invite them on' their own,' Miss An-stretcher.
* You do not seem to know your
value. Young ladies are very scarce in
Mushin-Bunda ; you could not have come
to a better place, if yoU' want to have it
all your own way. I don't think you will
find a rival here.'

A glorious thought to goad one on to
victory,' she said, sarcastically, and her
manner seemed to change from that moment.
She became again reserved and
haughty ; and when I returned home from
my professional duties, Janie met me almost
in tears, with the intelligence that she was
sure dear Lionne was not well, for she had
scarcely spoken a word all day, and had
sat so silent during the visits of the officers
of the regiment that Janie had had all the
talking to do.

Never mind ! ' I answered soothingly ;
she will be different after dinner. A glass
of champagne will thaw her reserve, and
draw her out of herself.'

But I so much wished that they should
admire her,' said dear little Janie in a
despondent voice.

My predictions, however, with respect
to Miss Anstruther were not verified. She
looked very handsome this evening in a
sweeping white dress {' handsome ' is the
correct term of her style of beauty ; no
one could call her ' pretty,' like Janie for
instance, but she certainly looks handsome,
particularly by candle-light), but nothing

prevailed to make her sociable ; neither
my champagne nor my wife's coaxing-could
induce her to talk or sing as she
did last night. She spoke in monosyllables,
and professed herself too tired
for any display ; and the five men whom
I had asked to dine with us sat alternately
talking to my wife, and staring at
her guest, until the time for their departure
had arrived. Janie sung us two or three
ballads in her sweet plaintive little voice,
but we had heard them before, of course,
and should have been glad of something
new. But all our pressing and entreaty
were in vain. Miss Anstruther said she
was too fatigued to sing; and declining
even to sit amongst the company, stood
by a window gazing out upon the night.
Presently, almost too vexed at her singular
behaviour to remember my politeness, I
approached her side, and said, perhaps
rather abruptly, —

Why won't you sing for us ? '
Because I don't choose,' she answered,
fearlessly.

I thought so,' I said ; and turning
away I quitted her again, and took a

seat by Janie's side. But after a while
some fascination, for which I am unable
to account (but which has been felt at
times by all people who on earth do
dwell), made me feel that Miss Anstruther
was regarding me, and lifting my eyes, I
encountered the glance of hers fixed on
my face. She withdrew them quickly ;
but not before their gaze had made me
feel uncomfortable — a sensation which I
attribute to the fact of their colour, which
I have never liked, and believe I never
shall.

The rest of the evening passed dully
enough, and I am sure Janie was as relieved
as I was when our friends rose to
take their leave, and Miss Anstruther
disappeared in the privacy of her own
room.

'You can't say that Mademoiselle Lionne
has made herself very agreeable to-night,'
I exclaimed rather triumphantly, as Janie
and I found ourselves alone.

But Janie was hardly a subject to be
triumphed over, she was so very humble
and apologetic.

I can't think what is the matter with

her, Robert dear ; but I assure you she
is not sulky. Only this moment she put
her arms round my neck and kissed me —
oh, so nicely ! but I don't think she likes
dinner-parties. We won't give another.'

Not like dinner-parties ! ' I exclaimed.
'No — nor men. She told me she

wouldn't sit in the drawing-room tomorrow
morning.'

Not like dinner-parties or men ! ' I exclaimed,
aghast at the intelligence. * And
how the deuce is she to get married,
then?'

Perhaps she doesn't want to get married,'
said Janie demurely.

'Doesn't want to get married!' I growled.
'Don't tell me such nonsense! If she
doesn't want to get married, what is she
out here for ? '

Oh, hush ! Robert dear ; don't speak
so loud,' interposed my wife, as she laid
her little hand across my mouth. * Do
remember, her room Is the next one to
this.'

So the conference was stopped, and I
cut Into my dressing-room to write my
diary. But I never heard such nonsense,

and I wouldn't believe it on the girl's
own oath. Not like men or dinner-parties,
forsooth ! It Is only a young lady's trick
to attract attention by appearing to decline
it. We shall never get rid of her at this
rate.

N.B. — Her eyes are not black. I was
mistaken. They are grey, and not such
a very dark grey either, except when she
is annoyed. It Is only In some lights
that they look black. They are fine eyes;
but more suited, I should think, to war
than love.

june \gtk. — In some way or other I
have offended my lady, for she will hardly
speak to me ; and when I proposed to
drive her to hear the regimental band
play this evening (Janie not being well),
rejected my offer with a decision which
amounted to scorn. Yet she stayed by
Janle's sofa (so I was told afterwards)
during the whole term of my absence,
bathing her head with eau de Cologne, and
fanning her, and attending to all her wants
in the most womanly manner ; so I suppose
she has some good In her, after all.
But so have serpents and tigers, and other

beasts of prey. All I know is, that I'm
not going to be insulted by a girl in my
own house, and I shall let Miss Anstruther
feel this by keeping up a distance between
us, and treating her with the coldest reserve.
Just when I had been forcing
myself to show her politeness, in spite of
all the repulsion I feel to her society, to
have my offer rudely rejected is more
than any man can stand. It makes my
blood boil to recall the tone in which she
told me she was * infinitely obliged,' but
thought, on the whole, she would rather
remain at home.' She may remain at
home for ever for me now ; it will be a
long time before I offer to take her out
again.

yM7ie dist. — We have been at it now for
two days, bowing to each other when we
meet, and scarcely exchanging a word
except in the most formal manner. Janie
sees the change, of course, and is wretched
about it. She keeps turning her wistful
glances from one to the other, as if to entreat
us to make it up and be friends ; but when
she appeals to me in private, I tell her that
it is the fault of her cousin, who is the

one to make the first advances towards
reconciliation, as I have not the slightest
idea in what I have offended ; and when
she talks in her turn to Lionne, I believe
she hears pretty much the same argument.
I hope, however, for all our sakes, that
this kind of thing won't go on much longer;
for I know that it's deucedly disagreeable,
and that I've never felt at home since Miss
Anstruther came into the house.

June 2 2)d. — Colonel Anstruther has sent
up a fine Arab from Madras for the use
of his niece, and to-day it arrived under
the charge of its native groom, rather
foot-worn and travel-stained, but otherwise
in good condition. It is such a beautiful
creature, and my fancy for horses is so
strong, that I really couldn't help coming
a little out of my shell on its arrival, and
expressing my admiration of its various
points to its mistress. She also seemed
to forget herself in her pleasure in the
new acquisition ; but when I remarked
that she would now have some delightful
rides, and would find no lack of cavaliers
to accompany her in Mushin-Bunda, the
old expression re-gathered on her face,

and she retreated to the house, and sat
for the greater part of the evening in her
own room. What an unpleasant woman !
I would rather she bit me than treated
me like this, and suggested to Janie that
the alternative would be pleasant for a
change. But Janie wouldn't laugh ; she
is too really unhappy about the state of
things.

june 2 5///. — Matters remained in statu
quo until to-day ; but the thaw has come
at last, and, as it should do, from the
female side. The horses were brought
round this morning, as usual, to eat their
gram ' in front of the house ; and the
Arab, having enjoyed two days' rest and
a thorough grooming, looked in such good
condition, that Janie was eager in her
entreaties that her cousin should take her
first ride on him this evening, and form
an opinion of her new acquisition. Knowing
that my attendance would be necessary
(I have never been able to persuade Janie
to become a horsewoman, she is far too
timid), I made an effort to be more agreeable,
and joined my persuasions to those
of my wife ; but Miss Anstruther would

give no definite answer, and rather put
the question to one side than otherwise ;
so I thought no more about it. Going
towards the stables, however, in the afternoon,
I saw the Arab standing ready
saddled in his stall ; and hearing it was
by order of the ' missy,' concluded that
I had either misunderstood her reticence,
or she had changed her mind ; so, telling
the housekeeper to get my animal also
ready, returned to the house to hear what
plans had been made in my absence.
There I found Miss Anstruther standing
by herself in the verandah, ready attired
for her ride, and looking better in her hat
and habit than I remember to have seen
her look before.

Janie has a headache, Captain Norton,
and is lying down until dinner time. I
believe she is asleep,' she said, as she
observed the roving look I cast about in
search of my wife.

Ah, poor little woman, it will be the
best thing for her,' I replied. * The horses
will be round directly, Miss Anstruther;
but I am sorry you did not make me
understand your intention of riding more

plainly ; It was quite by chance that I
returned home so early.'

At this she turned and regarded me
with serious surprise.

I had no intention of troubling you,'
she said quickly ; ' I can ride by myself.'

By yourself, and on a strange animal,
Miss Anstruther ! It is quite out of the
question.'

I have ridden all sorts of animals.'

Perhaps ; but not without an attendant.
What would the regiment think to see you
riding alone ? '

I am sorry, I have mistaken the place,'
she said gravely. * I thought Muslin
was so very quiet that one might
do anything here. I should not think of
troubling you to accompany me.'

And she turned towards the house as
though with the intention of giving up her
ride. But I placed myself upon the threshold,
and barred her entrance.

You have not been treating me fairly
for some days past, Miss Anstruther.
What have I done to offend you ? '

Nothing,' she answered in a low voice.
'Then don't add insult to your injury

VOL. I. c;

by refusing my escort on this occasion.
You need take no more notice of me,
you know, than if I were your groom ;
and that will not be much alteration from
your usual behaviour.'

She held her head so low that I could
hardly see her face ; but she re-entered the
verandah as I spoke, and I concluded that
my terms were accepted. In another moment
the horses were at the door.

Come,' I said, as gaily as I could, as
I held out my hand to aid her in descending
the steps ; and as I took hers, I felt
that it was trembling. I put her on her
horse. Notwithstanding her height, she
is almost feather-weight ; and her elastic
figure sprang into the saddle, from the
impetus it received from me, as though
she had really been the animal to which
I am so fond of comparing her. So I
settled her in her seat, arranging her skirt
and stirrup-leather for her, and handing
her the reins, without once looking in her
face ; and then I mounted my own horse,
and we rode out of the compound side
by side. The silence that we maintained
was ominous. She did not speak a word,

and I could think of nothing to say, although
I felt that an explanation was about
to take place between us. I was glad,
therefore, when we came to a long strip
of green turf, and I could suggest that
she should try of what mettle her animal
was made ; a suggestion to which she
dumbly assented by breaking into a canter.
As we rode along together, I glanced at
her light figure, poised like a bird upon
the saddle, and saw that she rode well,
sitting home to her crupper, and handling
her reins as though she were accustomed
to them.

[N.B. — I have read and heard a good
deal about the want of grace in a woman's
seat on horseback, but, for my own part,
I never think a lady looks so well as
in that position, always provided that she
understands her business and has a figure
worth looking at. A handsome woman on
a handsome horse is a sight for royalty,
and I never know which to admire most,
the mortal or the equine.)

We cantered for a mile or more, and the
action of the Arab seemed very perfect.
I made an observation to this effect, when,

having left the running horse-keepers far
behind us, we at last drew rein, and found
ourselves alone. But still my remark
received no answer, and I was determined
to make her speak.

*Am I intruding too much upon my
privileges. Miss Anstruther, in venturing
an opinion on the subject ? Even a groom
is sometimes permitted, you know, to pass
his judgment on the new acquisitions to
his mistress's stables.'

Don't, Captain Norton ; oh, pray,
don't.'

The words were uttered so hurriedly
that I scarcely understood them ; but
when I looked into her face for an explanation,
I saw that she was crying. Now I
cannot bear to see a woman cry. They
may do anything they like with me — tease,
bully, even insult me — so long as they keep
their eyes dry ; but Miss Anstruther s
tears were falling fast upon the bosom of
her riding-habit.

I could not endure to think that she
might be annoyed with me and my
bantering ; perhaps unhappy at having to
live at Mushin-Bunda, for it is a very

dull and uninteresting place ; and I said
the first thing which came into my head.

My dear girl, what is the matter with
you ? '

I suppose the question was stupid or
ill-timed, or perhaps I don't understand
the ways of women, for instead of doing
Miss Anstruther any good, it changed her
silent tears into such a storm of grief
that I was quite alarmed. I have often
seen Janie cry (indeed, my little woman
is rather fond of working her hydraulics
on very small occasions), and I have been
the unwilling witness at times to a good
many tears from various members of the
fair sex ; but never in all my life have I
seen such a tempest of passionate rain as
poured from Margaret Anstruther's eyes
this evening. She sobbed so violently
and with so little restraint, that I began to
be alarmed for the effect of her emotion,
both on her horse and herself, and begged
and entreated her to be calm, when all of
a sudden, to my astonishment, the storm
passed as quickly as it had arisen ; and,
except for her heaving bosom and sobbing
breath, she was herself again.

What must you think of me ? ' she inquired,
turning her liquid eyes, still swimming
in tears, upon my countenance. * I
must have seemed so rude, so ungrateful
to you both.'

Think ! ' I stammered, remembering
all I have thought of her conduct during
the last few days ; I don't think anything,
Miss Anstruther ; only I am afraid you
cannot be happy with us or here.

Oh, it is not that ! ' she exclaimed
earnestly. ' Neither place nor people can
make any difference to me. Dear Janie
is everything that is kind ; and you — you
have been very patient with me — but
nothing can lift off the humiliation, the
degradation, that I feel in being hereat
all.'

Degradation ! ' I repeated, rather nettled
at the term.

Yes, degradation ! ' she said emphatically
; * else why am I in this country ?
what is my place in India ? I have an
uncle here, it is true ; but so have I uncles
in England. Why was Colonel Anstruther
chosen by my guardians as the one most
fitted to offer me a home ? Tell me that.'

He is rich, and a bachelor,' I commenced
; * and Having alone, naturally — '

It is not so,' she interrupted me ; ' and
you know it. Captain Norton. It is because
he lives in a country where women
are scarce, and men have few opportunities
of choice ; where a girl may pick up a
husband who might remain for ever unmarried
at home ; where we are looked at
on arrival much as though we were articles
of sale, and often purchased for motives
unworthy the name of love or honour or
esteem. You cannot deny it, because it is
true, and I am wretched ; ' and with this
Lionne buried her burning face in her
hands.

But I can deny it ! ' I exclaimed ; ' for
if this is the case with some girls sent out
to this country, it is not with all. Look at
your cousin Janie ; surely you would never
speak of her in that strain.'

Janie came out to the care of her
sister, her nearest relation,' was the low
reply.

And you have come out to your relations,
Miss Anstruther ; to friends who
have but one wish, to see you happy and

comfortable, and who would never dream
of imputing such motives to an action
which — '

Did you not dream of it ? ' she retorted
quickly, as she turned her glowing glance
upon me. 'What was the question that
you put to Janie the second evening of
my arrival. "If she doesn't want to get
married, what is she here for ? " I ought
not to have heard it, perhaps, but you
spoke so loudly that it was impossible
to avoid doing so. And do you think I
didn't feel it ? '

She spoke so decidedly, and yet so mournfully,
her eyes flashed with such proud indignant
fire, whilst her figure seemed bowed
beneath the weight of her humiliation, that
I had nothing to say for myself; and having
attempted some stammering reply, which
ended very abruptly, found that she was
speaking again, though more to herself than
me, and felt myself constrained to be silent
and attend.

I saw it from the first day I landed,' she
went on sadly. ' I perceived in Mrs Grant's
insinuations, and the remarks of her lady
friends, that I was supposed to have been

sent out to India with but one object — to
get a husband ; and it sickened me. But
when I came here,' she added in a lower
voice, * I hoped it would be different ; I
hoped that you and Janie, being so lately
married, would look on love and marriage
in a holier light — as something too far
removed from earthly calculations to be
made the subject of mere speculation or
convenience.'

'Oh, Miss Anstruther, forgive me ! ' I
exclaimed.

'It is I who should have said those
words, Captain Norton. You disappointed
me, and I have disappointed
you. You raised in me a demon of a
temper, which I should have been ashamed
to manifest, which I am now most heartily
ashamed even to recall. And yoj have
been very patient with me, very good and
very gentlemanly. Please forgive me, in
your turn.'

And she placed her hand firmly and
warmly into mine.

You are too kind,' I stammered, confused
beyond measure at this rapid change of
manner in my guest. ' I spoke thoughtlessly;

but I see that I misjudged you. Only tell
me now what you wish to be done, and I
will execute it to the letter.'

I don't deserve that you should do anything,
Captain Norton, but hate me for a
rude and sulky wretch ; but I am so heartily
sorry to have annoyed you.'

Let us forget all that,' I responded,
earnestly ; ' the annoyance was mutual, and
I was the most to blame. Only tell me
what to do in future, Margaret — I may call
you Margaret, may I not, since we are
cousins ? — in order to make you happy,
and then I shall feel that I am quite
forgiven.'

Treat me as a human being,' she answered,
gaily, ' and not as an animal for
sale. Don't ask your brother officers to
the house on my account, nor thrust me
forward for their contemplation in any way.
Look on me as what I am : a creature who
may stand alone all her life, and be contented
so to stand ; to whom marriage is but a
chance in the future ; so great a chance
indeed, and so undesired a certainty, that
she does not even care to contemplate it
nearer ; to whom her friends, if they will

be her true and honest friends, are more
valuable than a score of admirers.'

Whatever I have been, you shall have
a true and honest friend in me henceforward,
Margaret.'

That's right ; so let us look upon our
difference as settled, and make Janie's heart
glad by the beaming faces we take back
with us. And now, let me hear your true
opinion of my uncle's present to me.'

We discoursed gaily on in different topics
till we reached home ; when Janie was
indeed made glad (as Margaret had predicted)
by the cheerful conversation we
maintained at the dinner-tab^-, and the
little bit of confidence I reposed in her
when we found ourselves alone. She was
so delighted to think I should appreciate
her dear Lionne at her true value at last.
Not that I told Janie every word that had
passed between her cousin and myself; for,
added to its being unnecessary, I am not
sure that my little girl would understand
Miss Anstruther's feelings on the subject,
or properly respect her pride. She would
mention it again to her probably ; and in
her simplicity, wishing to be kind and interested,

try to sift her reasons to the
bottom, and perhaps annoy where she
desired to please. So I only said that our
quarrel was altogether done away with,
and would never be renewed ; and that, asher
cousin seemed to prefer a quiet life,
we would inaugurate no farther dinner-parties
on her account ; which would suit
us better, I concluded, and be more in
accordance with our usual style of living.
To all which my wife heartily agreed ; and
I feel more at charity with myself and
all mankind than I have done for sometime
past. I shall keep my word with
Margaret Anstruther ; and extend no
farther encouragement to the bachelors
who may come lounging about my house.
It is a strange taste on her part ; but she
must be a girl in a thousand to dislike
admiration, and to look upon careless attentions
as an offence against the solemnity
of marriage. It is a solemn thing, when
you come to think, that if you make a
mistake upon the subject, you are in for
it, and nothing can pull you out again.
I wonder if Margaret has had an unrequited
attachment ; I should not be in

the least surprised were I told so ; it
would be quite in accordance with the
grave, melancholy expression of her eyes,
and her dislike to society. I must try
and discover.

July 20th, — Is it possible that I
can have let nearly a whole
month slip away without writing
a line in my diary ? I had no
idea of it till I saw the last date inscribed
here ; and the month itself seems to have
gone so swiftly, that had it not been for
this reminder, I should have imagined
it was not more than a week since I
recorded my experiences. I suppose it
is the monotony of the place which makes
the time go so fast. My poor little Janie
has not been well during this month :
the heat has been unusually trying, and
she lies on her sofa half the day, suffering
from nervous headaches, and a general
disinclination to get up and do anything.
In this emergency her cousin has been
invaluable ; she is constantly by her side,

reading to her, writing her letters, or
amusing her with quiet conversation ; indeed,
I may say we share the duty, for,
of course, I Hke to wait on Janie ; and
the novels which Margaret brought out
from England with her are very entertaining
to listen to, and to me an entirely new
field of fancy, as I have scarcely ever
looked into a work of fiction in my life.
I imagined novels, particularly modern
ones, were such rubbish ; and so I suppose
they are. Yet, on a hot day, and
when there is nothing else to do, it is very
pleasant to sit still, fanning Janie and
listening to Margaret's mellow voice as
she reads them to us. We are engaged
upon the Newcome at present. I pity
that poor devil Clive, with such a little
fool as Rosy for a wife, and especially
when he might have had a girl like Ethel
Newcome. I didn't care a pin about the
story at first, but I feel quite interested in
it now, and anxious to know if he gets rid
of Rosy by any means, so that he may
marry the other. I think it will be very
hard lines if he doesn't. Margaret laughs
at me, and says I am a bloodthirsty monster,

and that Clive should be made to
abide the consequences of his folly ; and
so, I suppose, by rights he should.

What a genial laugh she has, and how
pleasant it is to see her blush and smile !
I can understand now what Janie means
by calling her complexion creamy ; it is
so smooth and equable, not easily flushed,
but at the same time not liable to become
florid and irritable-looking, which is so
often the case with fair skins. We have
certainly had some very quiet peaceful
days together. I have faithfully kept the
compact I made with her to be her friend,
and I think she appreciates my wish to give
her pleasure. We have had no parties
since she expressed a contrary desire, and
I have even told Forster — who is evidently
most absurdly spoony on her — that she
does not favour his suit — as I can see by
her manner towards him — and that he
really must not come to the house so often.
He says, ' Why not let him try his luck ? '
but I am firm in making him understand
that trial would only end in disappointment
for himself. He grumbles ; so do
several others ; but my wife's state of

health is sufficient excuse for our not
entertaining at present. I told Margaret
of what I had said to Forster relative
to her not liking his attentions, and she
blushed so crimson that I stopped in alarm
to ask if I had done wrong ; but she assured
me to the contrary, and that she
does not like the man. I have not had
a good opportunity yet of probing her
concerning that former attachment of
which I am suspicious ; but I fancy I see
signs of it almost every day ; also that she
has somehow guessed at my intentions,
for I am sure she has avoided being alone
with me lately. Notwithstanding all which
we are very happy, and Lionne is very
different from what I expected her to be.
She has not been in a temper once since
we arrived at that mutual understandings.

July dist. — Talk of the old gentleman,
they say, and he is sure to appear. I
hope I did not raise the slumbering demon
in Miss Anstruther's breast by my innocent
remark of last night ; but she has
certainly given us a peep of him since.

I was sitting in my own room this
afternoon, occupied with some official

VOL. I. H

papers, when I heard a confusion of
tongues in the compound, and Janie's
frightened voice, in tones of agitation,
entreating me to go to her assistance. I
ran, of course, to find that the cause of her
alarm was a loud altercation going on between
Miss Anstruther and some natives
in the back verandah.

Oh, do go to them, Robert dear ! '
Janie plaintively exclaimed ; ' Lionne is so
angry, and I can't think what for.'

I dashed upon the scene of action, and
took in the circumstances at a glance. In
the centre stood Lionne — a lionne indeed,
looking — I could not help observing it,
even whilst I blamed the exhibition — most
beautiful under the influence of her rage.
Her dark face glowing with passion, her
arm extended, though powerless to command
attention, and her lips pouring forth
a torrent of generous indignant words,
alike uncomprehended and unheeded by
those around her. By her side stood two
or three servants, who stared at the lady's
vehemence without attempting to execute
her wishes ; whilst before her, in the compound
was a group of natives actively employed

in torturing a poor pariah dog by
methods too horrible to relate, and only
abating their cruelty to exchange significant
grins and glances with one another at
Lionne's impotent rage. But my appearance
amongst them had the effect of an
electric shock upon the herd.

What is all this about ? ' I demanded
angrily of my servants. ' How dare you
let such a scene go on in my compound '^, '

Oh, Robert ! Robert ! ' exclaimed
Lionne — it is the first time in her life that
she has called me by my Christian name —
stop them ; make them leave off such
horrid cruelty. I did not know you were
at home, or I would have sent for you
before.'

The natives had already shrunk back
and huddled together, whilst the unfortunate
victim of their experiments still lay
panting on the sand before us.

'Oh, look at it! look at it!' she cried
excitedly ; ' it is in agony ; it is dying !
Oh, you wretches ! you inhuman, barbarous
savages ! ' with an expression and
emphasis which must have made even her
English phrases intelligible to the creatures

she addressed ; * I should like to see everyone
of you served in the same way. You
are not men, you are devils ! '

Lionne,' I said firmly, as I laid my
hand on the excited girl's arm, ' this is no
place for you. Leave me to deal with
these men by myself.'

She shook off my grasp impatiently, as
though disdaining my control ; but I caught
her eye and chained it.

Margaret ! '

But, Captain Norton — '

Go in to Janie — you have frightened
her enough already — and leave me by
myself. I will come to you 

saw I was in earnest, and with a
heightened colour turned from the verandah
and re-entered the house, where, after having
severely reprimanded my servants,
thrashed one or two of the natives, and
seen the tortured animal put out of its
misery, I followed her. She was seated
by Janie's couch, her hand clasped in that
of her cousin, her beautiful head drooped
and lowering. I saw that she was ashamed
of what had passed ; and so I made no

reference to it, but asked my wife in an
indifferent tone on what she had decided
to do this evening. She had decided on
nothing — in fact, she wished to do nothing,
but to be left to He still in peace. So, after
a while, I proposed a stroll in the compound
to Miss Anstruther ; and she rose to her
feet and prepared to follow me.

I think I have already spoken of our
compound, which is full of graves. These
graves are very inconveniently situated fora
gentleman's pleasure-grounds ; or perhaps
it would be more correct to say that the
gentleman's pleasure-grounds are inconveniently
situated for the graves, which
stretch up to the very windows of the
house, and by their inequality greatly impede
the facility of a stroll. We stumbled over
them, and made circuits round about them,
for some time in silence, until both that and
the exercise seemed to become oppressive ;
and by mutual consent, as it were, we sat
down together on a broad flat stone which
covers one of them ; and for a few moments
neither of us spoke. Then I stole
a glance at Margaret's face, and saw that
it was still clouded and downcast ; and I

felt a strange longing to see it brighten up
again and smile upon me.

I am sorry you should have been witness
to so painful and disgraceful a scene,
Miss Anstruther/ I ventured to remark.

I am sorry you should have been witness
to so painful and disgraceful a scene,
Captain Norton,' she echoed gloomily.
Mine was the worst exhibition of the two :
I see it now plainly. Oh, what a wretch
you must think me! What an undisciplined,
passionate, unwomanly creature ! '
and up went her hands as shelter to her
burning face.

Please don't call yourself names ; I can't
subscribe to them. I think you only what
you are — a generous, warm-hearted girl,
indignant at the sight of wrong, only inclined
to be a little too hot and hasty in
expressing your indignation. Never be
afraid of falling in my good opinion by
showing your true nature, Margaret'

But my nature is so bad, Captain Norton
; you cannot think how bad it is. My
temper is so violent ; and when it rises, I
remember nothing else, except that I am
angry and must show it.'

If you never display it in a worse cause,
Margaret, than you did this afternoon, you
cannot go far wrong. It was a disgraceful
and disgusting act of cruelty.'

Oh, was it not cruel,' she eagerly exclaimed,
' to torture one so utterly defenceless
and unarmed ? I could look on at
men, or dogs, or any creatures of equal
power, fighting with each other, and applaud
the victor ; but when it comes to one against
such fearful odds, one innocent creature
suffering because of its innocence, I cannot
bear it. Many such sights would kill me ;
I think that I should burst with rage.'

And yet in this world, Margaret, it is
usually the defenceless and the innocent
who suffer.'

We who are strong should shield them,'
she answered, hastily.

I wonder what made her link her nature
with mine in that word * we ? ' And yet I
feel that I am strong — as she is. The
tombstone on which we were sitting professes
to cover the remains of two lovers
who died within a few hours of each other.
I told her the story, as it has been related
to me by one of our officers, who has taken

the trouble to decipher the old Dutch letters
upon the stone, and asked her if she believed
it possible that grief could have such an
effect as to kill within so short a space of
time.

It seems unlikely,' she replied indifferently
; ' but natures are so various.
If true, she must have loved him very
devotedly.'

And you are the last person to believe
in such affection,' I remarked. I thought
it would be a good occasion to find out if
she had ever had an unfortunate attachment.


What makes you think so ? ' she answered
quickly.

Because you have never tried it — have
you ? You have never been in love yourself,
Margaret ? '

I spoke laughingly ; but I wish I had
not mentioned it. A scarlet flush mounted
to her very forehead as I said the words ;
and when I pulled her by the hand and
repeated my assertion, she burst into tears,
and ran from me to the house. What a
fool I was to touch on such a subject ! I
don't believe, all the same, that it is true.

that she has ever been In love ; but I may
have wounded her sensitive pride by mentioning
it, and cause her to be reserved
with me in future. Indeed, I am sure that
she behaved more distantly towards me
even during the remainder of the evening ;
and a little circumstance which happened
just before we went to bed confirms me in
this opinion.

Janie was quite brisk and lively compared
to what she has been lately, and
sung us several songs ; but Lionne excused
herself from singing, and remained
in a corner with her face buried in a
book.

Make her come, Robert dear,' said
Janie playfully. ' Go and pull her out.'

Captain Norton knows better than to
attempt such a rudeness,' was the measured
reply, which fell rather as a wet blanket on
the other lite woman's mirth.

Why do you call him Captain Norton ? '
she said, pouting. ' You called him Robert
this afternoon when you were in the verandah,
Lionne, because I heard you. Why
can't you do so always } '

Miss Anstruther had disappeared still

lower behind her book ; but to my wife's
demand she made no reply.

Why won't you call him Robert ? ' said
Janie, as she rose from the piano and took
possession of her cousin's book ; ' he always
calls you Margaret.'

The face which she thus disclosed was
crimson, and the dark eyes swam in a
blurred mist which was half tears. So
painful indeed was the expression of the
whole countenance, that I turned away, and
could not contemplate it.

Because I can't, I really can't,' was the
reply at last extracted.

And why not ? ' persisted Janie.

It is not pleasant to me ; I do not wish
it,' said Miss Anstruther, until I felt myself
constrained to interfere, and desire
Janie not to tease her cousin.

So she released the glowing face with an
expression of impatience at her obstinacy,
and Miss Anstruther made use of her
liberty by effecting an immediate disappearance.
This confirms me in my impression
that I offended her in the compound
this evening, and that it will cause a difference
in our future intercourse. I am very

much vexed about It : I had really begun
quite to like the girl. And I cannot dismiss
from my mind the tone in which she
said the words, ' We who are strong should
shelter them.' Does she imagine that I
am not capable of acting a generous part ?
I should like to have some opportunity of
showing her what stuff I am made of.

July 2)Oth. — I have been very much vexed
to-day ; and though the circumstance appears
trifling, it threatens to lead to serious
results. When we first arrived in Muslin
— now some eight months ago — I,
in common with others of may regiment,
heard several absurd stories concerning
the houses supposed to be haunted in the
cantonment and its neighbourhood —
(natives always have a stock of such lies
on hand, with which to feed the imagination
of any one fool enough to listen to
them) ; but of course I placed no credence
in their statements, which only excited a
smile from their stupidity. This well was
said to be the quarters of a devil, for which
cause no one would ever draw or use the
water from it ; and that clump of bamboos
to harbour another, which, issuing in the

form of a boa-constrictor, attacked those
who were hardy enough to Anger in the
compound after dark. With regard to our
own house, I heard that the spirits of the
dead who lay buried beneath our windows
had been seen to wander about at night
in their grave-clothes ; but of course I took
care that such rubbish should not reach
the ears of my wife ; equally of course I
forbade my servants chattering about it,
and never gave the subject another thought.
What was my surprise and vexation, therefore,
when I returned home this afternoon,
to find my wife supported by her cousin
in a state of hysterical agitation, whilst
she listened to the garbled statements of
half-a-dozen natives, who all talked together,
and interrupted one another, and
did everything they could to render their
relation as confused and unintelligible as
possible. My 'chokra' or * dressing-boy '
was gesticulating in Hindustani ; the butler
was vociferating in broken English; and the
cook in his native tongue of Tamil ; whilst
the ' may ' and tailor and ' cook - boy '
tripped over each other in any words they
could first lay hold of Margaret was

looking incredulous and a little scornful ;
Janie was all tears and flushed cheeks and
wide-open eyes ; and for the moment I
was struck speechless with astonishment
to think what could possibly have happened
during my absence.

•' What is all this about ? ' I exclaimed,
as I advanced to the centre of the group.

The servants fell back, conscious they
had no business there, and evidently somewhat
doubtful of my reception of their
news. But Margaret gave a sigh of relief
at my appearance, and Janie flew to my
arms as to an ark of safety.

These men have been frightening Janie
out of her wits,' said Margaret in a tone
of annoyance ; ' and all I could say was
insufficient to stop them.'

What is it, my dear ? ' said I, addressing
my wife. ' What have they told you ? '

Oh Robert, do take me away ! ' she
answered with a convulsive shudder. ' I
never shall be able to sleep in this house
again. They say they have seen it : a
dreadful thing all in white, walking about
the graves, and moaning to itself, and
wringing its hands. Oh, Robert dear, do

let us go ! It will come into the house
next; I am sure it will. I shall die of
fright if you don't take me away at once.'

She clung to me like a terrified child,
and as I marked her burning face and felt
the feverish clasp of her hands, I could not
tell what injury these idiots might not have
done her by their folly.

What do you mean by this ? ' I inquired
sternly, as I turned to the group
of natives.

Then they began to cringe and salaam
before me, as they attempted to repeat
the story which had so alarmed my wife.
But I would not permit them to do so,
but ordered them all out of the room,
and turned my attention towards soothing
Janie's fears.

You must not be a child, my dear
Janie I said, as I replaced her on the
sofa, and arranged her pillows for her.
These natives are always full of their
stupid ghost-stories ; but you know better
surely than to believe such folly. There
are no such things as ghosts, therefore how
could they have seen one ? '

Oh, but indeed — indeed, Robert, it is

true ! ' she said with painful earnestness.
They saw it themselves only last night,
and they say it is like a woman with long
hair down her back ; and when they tried
to touch it, it vanished away.'

At this I could not help laughing.

A pack of heroes!' I exclaimed. ' Why,
Janie, there is not one amongst them man
enough to inquire into such a mystery,
even if they saw it, which I don't believe.
I've a good mind to give them a hiding
all round to make their eyesight a little
clearer.'

But what should be their object in
repeating it .'^' inquired Janie fearfully.

•' If you will condescend to listen, my
dear, you will always find them ready to
talk. They are full to the brim with such
idle tales. You should refuse to hear
them, and send them about their business.'

Oh but, Robert, can't we go away from
this house ? I never could bear those
graves, and now I shall be more frightened
of them than ever.'

'Janie, I thought you were more of a
woman,' I said reproachfully. ' Where
could we go to ? You know that all the

houses in Mushin-Bunda are occupied ;
to which fact poor Janie assented with a
deep sigh.

But, at all events, you won't go out
this evening, Robert, will you ? ' she continued
imploringly. * I could not bear to
stay in the house alone with Margaret and
that awful thing.'

I was engaged to attend a public dinner
at our mess this evening, for a couple of
officers of the isti are passing through
Mushin-Bunda on their way to England,
and we wished to show them a little civility.
I had been looking forward to the occasion
(one sees so few strangers in this place);
but I told my poor little timid wife that
I would give it up and remain at home
with her. However, Miss Anstruther
very kindly came to my assistance, and,
begging me to keep my engagement,
promised not to leave Janie for a single
moment till my return. Upon which,
although with much reluctance, the other
consented to my leaving her ; and as soon
as I could get away, I went after my
servants to learn what folly had induced
them to fly into the presence of their

mistress with such a rumour. I found
them almost as frightened as herself, and,
oddly enough (for you can generally catch
a native tripping when you cross-examine
him), perfectly firm in adhering to their
first statement. Their story is, that as
three of them were returning to their
downs (as they call the huts in the
compound) rather late last night, they saw
a tall figure dressed in white wandering
about the graves, and moving its hands
in a distressed manner ; and that, as they
cried out at the sight (for natives are
terribly superstitious and cowardly), they
wakened the other three, who ran out
just in time to see the figure vanish round
the house, and they were too much alarmed
to follow up the search. In relating the
story to me they dropped all mention of
having touched the supposed ghost, being
aware, I suppose, that I was not likely
to credit such an act of bravery on their
parts. I spoke to them all six, both together
and individually ; and it is curious
that I could not make them contradict
themselves in the statement that they have
seen such an apparition. Of course it is

VOL. I. I

all nonsense. They saw something doubtless
; most likely Janle's * ayah ' in her
white cloth, out without leave ; but as fora
ghost ! — folly !

I scolded them well all round for a pack
of Idiots, forbade their mentioning the
subject again, and threatened them with
the stick and stoppage of wages If they
were ever the means of carrying such
stories to their mistress's ears ; so I hope
we have heard the last of the ghost.
However, the fright has evidently done
Janle no good. When I returned home
from mess this evening, I found that she
had had another violent attack of hysterics,
and that her cousin had thought right to
send for our doctor, who happened to beat
his own house. He reports my wife
very nervous and feverish, and orders her
to be kept as quiet as possible. I would
give a thousand pounds this moment, if
I had them, sooner than this story had
reached her ears. She Is so sensitive and
timid, and her health is at present so delicate,
that I fear the shock may have some
ill effect upon her.

July list. — Janie better, but still feverish

Miss Anstruther watches over her Hke a
sister. After they had both retired to bed
to-night, I sat at the window for more thana
couple of hours, hoping to see something
which might account for the servants* story,
but nothing was visible. The bright moonlit
up the compound till it appeared almost
like day, and the air was so still that I
must have heard the slightest rustle ; but
I neither saw nor heard anything except
my own breathing and the smoke from
my cigar. What awful fools these niggers
must be to believe in ghosts at all !

August 1st, — Janie was on her sofa
again to-day, and so cheerful, that I hope
she has already forgotten her alarm, and
that the remembrance may never be revived.
But what has come to Margaret
Anstruther ? She looked so careworn this
afternoon, so haggard and miserable, compared
to her usual appearance, that, after
asking her what was the matter, without
obtaining any satisfactory response, I
ventured to remark that I hoped the
ghost-story had not had any effect on her.
The start which she gave on hearing my
words, and the flush which mounted to her

face, would almost have made me think
that inadvertently I had struck a right
chord, had not the supercilious smile with
which she repeated the word * effect '
denied the expression of her countenance.

I thought it could not be the case,' I
said apologetically ; ' but you are really
looking so ill, Lionne. Will you not come
for a ride this evening ? '

No ; she declined to ride or to walk ;
she only desired to remain by Janie's side
and minister to her comfort. So be it,
then. I suppose it is natural she should
prefer her cousin's company to mine,
though I am not aware that I have done
anything lately to make her shrink from
me as she appears to do.

August eth. — The ghost has appeared
again — or rather Janie imagines she has
seen it, which is just as hurtful to her
health and spirits. She had seemed so
merry all to-day, and so far removed from
the fanciful fears engendered by the natives'
stupid story, that after she and her cousin
had retired to rest I took my cigar up to
the roof of the house, as the heat has been
most oppressive lately, and I longed for a

breath of fresh air. Our house (Hke most
others in Mushin-Bunda) is built with a
flat roof, surrounded by a high parapet,
which roof is reached from the verandah
by a flight of steps so much resembling a
ladder, that it is not often I can persuade
the ladies to mount it. But, for my own
part, I am constantly in the habit of taking
my book and pipe (not to say my glass of
brandy-and-water) to this elevated retreat,
and, when there, thinking on anything or
nothing, as the humour may take me. Tonight
my thoughts were not very cheerful
ones ; for, without any especial reason, I
felt what is technically termed ' dummy.'

Perhaps it is the excessive heat, perhaps
the continued weakness of Janie, but somehow
life has not appeared quite so sunny
to me lately as it used to do. I feel so
weary by the time the day is at an end,
and so dissatisfied with the manner in
which I have spent it, and I seem to rise
each morning with some undefined hope
which is never realised. I suppose it is
the monotonous life we lead which breeds
discontented thoughts ; we so seldom
encounter anything to draw us out of

ourselves and our own concerns. And
Margaret Anstruther's disinclination to
society has increased this disadvantage ;
for we three — Janie and she and I — have
been thrown completely on each other for
company during the last two months.
And yet they have not passed unpleasantly.
It is strange that I, who so
much dreaded this interruption to the
quiet life which I led with my wife, should
be able to write those words and mean
them.

Yet I do mean them — though, at the
same time, I cannot believe that the
interruption has made me any happier,
for I don't think I ever felt so restless and
unsettled as I do at present. I keep on
fancying that something is going to happen
to me ; and start to remember that there
is nothing at all the matter, and that if I
have a cause for dissatisfaction, it must
rest with myself. It must be Janie's illness
that affects me in this manner ; it is
so unnatural to see the poor little woman
always lying on the sofa, instead of running
about with her cousin and myself

I had been dreaming somewhat after

this fashion on the roof of the house tonight,
for how long or how short a time I
should have been quite unable to say,
when I was startled from my reverie by
hearing a most piercing scream in Janie's
voice and proceeding from Janie's bedroom,
which sounded so shrill and alarming,
as it rung through the still night air,
that, though I rose at once to my feet, I
felt for the first moment so paralysed with
fear, that it was not until the cry had been
repeated that I ran down to her assistance.
I found her in a half-fainting state on the
sill of the bedroom window, which was
wide open ; but my appearance changed
her condition to one of hysterical weeping,
which, whilst it was more painful to witness,
greatly relieved her. Meanwhile the
native servants, lying about the verandah
on their mats, were slumbering as heavily
as is their nature, and would not have
awakened of themselves had the cry been
twice as piercing, the alarm twice as
great.

My darling ! ' I exclaimed, as I took
the shivering form of my wife (shivering
with fear, not cold) into my arms and

pressed it to me, ' what can have startled
you ? Have you been dreaming ? '

Dreaming ! ' she repeated in a faint
whisper. * Oh no, Robert, I was not dreaming
; I was wide awake, and it passed
close to me.'

'It — it — what do you mean, Janie ? '
though I had guessed at once her fancy.

The ghost, Robert! — the dreadful ghost!
Ah ' (with another convulsive shudder),
I shall never, never forget the sight ! '

The ghost ! my dear girl, you have
really been dreaming. Where do you
fancy you saw it ? — in this room ? ' for I
had entered the room by the window by
this time, and still sat on the sill supporting
my wife in my arms.

I did not fancy', she replied, with an
earnestness which proved that she thought
she was right ; ^ it passed so close to me,
Robert, that I could have touched it with
my finger. Ah, why did we ever come to
this fearful place ! '

I lifted her up and placed her on her
bed again, and then, without releasing my
hold of her trembling fingers, I sat down
beside her and entreated her to tell me

all. ' Let me hear how you saw the ghost,
and where, Janie ; and perhaps I may be
able to account for the apparent mystery.
And first, why did you leave your bed at
all } What waked you 1 You were so
fast asleep when I left you.'

I don't know what waked me,' she said
nervously ; ' perhaps the heat, for I felt so
restless that I could not sleep, and after a
good deal of tossing about, I got up and
walked to the window to cool myself, and
see if you were in the compound anywhere.
I was not thinking of the ghost, Robert,
indeed I was not ; but directly I reached
the window I saw it — ah, just as they told
me, wandering about the graves ! '

Janie dear, indeed you must be mistaken
; it was the moonlight shining on
the white lining of the silver bamboos,
or—'

Robert ! ' she exclaimed, starting up
in bed as she clutched me by my arm, ' I
tell you I saw it. It was no fancy, but a
tall woman dressed all in white walking in
and out of the graves.'

You are sure it was a woman ? '

Oh yes ; oh yes ; because, when I

screamed, it turned round and came close
by this window, and it had long hair
hanging right down its back. Oh, Robert,
I thought I should have died ! '

My poor girl,' I answered, as I forced
her to lie down again, * I am not going to
have you frightened in this abominable
manner. This is some trick on the part of
the natives ; to what end I cannot imagine,
but they shall pay dearly for their little
game. Where did this woman go after
she had passed the window ? '

Oh, I can't tell, Robert ; I don't know ;
but I think it vanished round the house.'

Well then, if you will let me leave you,
Janie (I will call the ayah to come and sit
by your bedside), I will just look round
the compound, and see if I can find anyone
loitering about.'

Oh, don't go after it, Robert ; pray
don't go after it ; it might hurt you.'

But I could not wait to silence any more
of Janie's fears ; had I stayed to reason
them all away, I should have been kept
prisoner till morning. I roused the ayah,
bid her stay with her mistress till I returned,
selected a thick stick from my

whip-stand, and proceeded on my voyage
of discovery. As I did so, I glanced at
my watch, and discovered to my amazement
that it was past one.

What a time I must have been dreaming
on the house-top !

I searched the compound and all the
accessible portions of the house thoroughly,
but I found and saw nothing. I wakened
all the slumbering occupants of the ' go-downs,'
to see if they had any strangers
amongst them, but only my own domestics
came yawningly to be inspected, and
certainly not one of them answers to the
description of the supposed ghost. As I
returned, I rapped at the closed Venetians
of Miss Anstruther's bedroom, and, to my
astonishment, her voice replied to me
immediately.

What ! are you awake, Margaret?' I demanded.
' Was it the noise disturbed you ?'

What noise ? ' she asked, as she came
near to the Venetians.

Janie's scream. She fancies that she
saw the ghost (which I hoped she had
almost forgotten), and that it passed close
under her windows.'

Poor child ! ' in a voice of compassion.
No, I did not hear, or I should have
gone to her ; but I have not been long
awake ; ' which, indeed, her voice seemed
to testify.

Why are you out of your bed ? '

I cannot sleep ; it is so hot,' she answered
with a deep sigh.

And you have seen nothing ? '

Certainly not ; and have been sitting
at the window till within a minute ago.
I have only just closed the Venetians
because the moon is so bright. It must be
all Janie's fancy.'

Of course it is her fancy that she has
seen a ghost,' I answered ; ' but I am not
so sure about her having seen nothing at
all. However, I shall find out more about
it tomorrow ; meanwhile I must not keep
you up any longer. Good-night.'

Shall I go to Janie ? ' she asked in the
same sleepy tone she had employed
before.

^ No, thank you ; I am going to her
myself And with that I passed on to
resume my guardianship over poor Janie
and her terrors. But I am determined to

follow up this mystery until I am enabled
to dispel it ; for which reason I shall
watch, night after night, for the appearance
of the person who dares to act
ghost' in my compound until I see him ;
for which reason also I shall keep my
watching a secret even from Janie and
Margaret.

Meanwhile I pooh-pooh the subject to
my wife, who easily takes her cue from
me, and will laugh at her own alarm by
this time tomorrow.

N.B. — She must rest with closed Venetians
until this mystery is unravelled ;
and I will steal out of bed after she is fast
asleep, and spend my nights upon the
housetop, which commands a view of every
part of the compound. And if I catch the
ghost, woe betide his bones ; for if I don't
make them rattle, it's a pity !

Meanwhile, thinking over matters, it
seems strange to me that Margaret
Anstruther, sitting at her window, should
not have heard the scream which reached
me so easily upon the roof ; or that, at all
events, the conversation which subsequently
I held with my wife should not

have been patent to her, as her room is
next to ours. However, she appeared half
asleep, even whilst she spoke to me ; for
her voice was low and dreamy, and I could
hardly catch her words. I wonder what
prevents the girl sleeping ! The same
mania seems to have fallen upon all of us ;
for I don't feel myself as though I should
close my eyes to-night, and every now and
then, as I steal a glance from my writing-table
to the bed, I see Janie's blue orbs
wide open, and watching for the moment
when I shall rejoin her. So I lay down
my pen, and go to afford her the protection
of my presence.

August 6tk. — I spend my nights now
like a sparrow, on the housetop, so am
obliged to write my diary in the daytime.
I watched from eleven last night to four
this morning ; but I saw nothing. The
air was so jolly and soft, that I had great
difficulty in keeping myself awake ; but
with tobacco I managed to do it. Janie
wondered that I was so sleepy after parade
this morning, and accused me of growing
abominably lazy and old. She has almost
recovered her fright again, I am happy to

say. Miss Anstruther, on the contrary,
looks worn and ill. I don't think this
climate can agree with her. I wish she
would consent to see the doctor who attends
Janie.

August jtk. — Was on the roof again all
last night. If, under the pursuit of knowledge,
it were only allowable for me to fall
asleep, it would be much pleasant than
remaining downstairs. Towards three
o'clock I thought I had caught the ghost ;
for I distinctly saw a ' tall figure, dressed
all in white,' hovering about the graves ;
but it proved to be only an early milkman,
going to recover his cows from their jungle
pasture-ground, who thought to make a
short-cut by passing through our compound.
This was provoking, after I had
taken the trouble to rush down after him,
stick in hand, fully prepared to administer
a wholesome castigation. But this fact
tends still more to confirm me in my belief
that what Janie saw was a native wandering
about in the moonlight after his own
business.

All domestic servants, and a good many
other classes, habitually wear white clothing

; and nothlnor would be easier, when
the imagination Is in a heated and unnatural
condition, than for one to mistake their appearance
for that of a ghost. However,
I shall not yet give up my search for the
delinquent.

August <^th. — I have now watched four
nights without seeing anything, and I am
beginning to get rather tired of the joke.
If the ghost doesn't soon make his or her
appearance, I shall resume my lawful place
of rest, and wait patiently until it sees fit
to call upon me.

Auo-ttst loth. — At last I have seen the
so-called phantom ; and had it been a lost
spirit sent from the nethermost hell to inform
me of my future fate, my hand could
hardly shake more than it does now, in
recalling the recollection. But not for the
reason which made its appearance one of
terror to the native servants and to my
poor Janle.

My terror, my horror, and my shrinking
arise from a totally different cause, and
make me wonder, as I write, that I should
have heard what I heard last night, and
live to repeat it.

I wish I had not lived ; I wish that I
were dead ! ^

I was on the roof, as usual, very tired,
rather dispirited, and more than half-disposed
to throw up the whole affair, and go
downstairs to bed. Where was the use, 1
argued with myself, of watching night after
night in that fashion for a ghost which
never came ? I was convinced that I was
troubling myself for a mere illusion — that
the phantom had never existed, except in
Janie's imagination, or that if a trick had
really been played upon my wife by some
of the servants, the rascals had discovered
that I was watching for them, and were
too wide awake to repeat it until I should
have given up pursuit. And then with my
eyes always fixed upon that part of the
compound where the old Dutch graves are
thickest, I lit a cigar, and watching the
thin wreath of smoke which curled from it
into the air, sighed to think how transitory
all happiness is in this world, and how
seldom one's earthly wishes, even when
realised, fulfil the promise of their attainment
; until I sufficiently forgot myself,
and the purpose of my being on the house-vol.

I. K

top in the middle of the night, to permit
the soothing influence of tobacco, added to
a soft Heat breeze, which fanned me as
delicately as though I had been a sleeping
infant to lull me off into a doze. How
long I slept I can hardly tell ; but I know
that I woke with a start and a shiver, and
that the first thing I did was to rub my
eyes, and quickly turn them in the direction
of the tombstones and the graves.
What was that which I saw wandering up
and down that plot of ground, just as I
had been told it was wont to do ? Was it
hallucination or reality ? Had the impression
with which I fell to sleep remained
upon the retina of my eye to delude my
waking fancy ? or was that which I gazed
upon a thing of flesh and blood ? I rubbed
my eyes again, and shook myself, to
be assured that I was quite awake ; and
then I advanced to the parapet and leant
well over it.

Yes, it was no mistake. A female figure
(or a figure dressed up so as to look like a
female), clothed in white, with long dark
hair streaming down her back, was feeling
her way, rather than wandering up and

down, between the rows of graves, and,
with her hands stretched out before her,
seemed to be muttering or murmuring to
herself. I gave myself but time to be
assured that I did see it — that it jas there ;
and then I grasped my stick and loaded
pistol, and prepared to descend and encounter
it.

Take heed, my fine fellow,' I said to
myself, as I carefully picked my way down
the flight of steps which led to the verandah
; ' don't insult me, or attempt to
frighten me, as you value the brains in
your head, or a whole bone in your body.
I can bear as much as most men when I
am put to the test ; but I won't have my
wife frightened out of her wits for the
lives of all the nio-orers in the world.'

I slunk beneath the shadows cast by the
verandah, past the places where my servants
lay asleep to that side of the house
where are situated the bedrooms of my
wife and Miss Anstruther, and was glad
to see that the Venetians of both windows
were closed, so that I trusted no alarm
might reach their ears.

And now, though I was close upon it,

the figure seemed to take no notice of my
presence, but still walked cautiously up
and down between the rows of graves,
whilst It kept up a sort of moaning to
itself. It looked so strange and unearthly
as it thus wandered beneath the moonlight,
that I felt myself shiver as I gazed
at it, and yet my belief in the whole
business turning out a trick was strong
as ever.

So, after a pause, just sufficient to
permit the figure to get as far as possible
away from the vicinity of my wife's bedroom
windows, I sprang after it ; and just
as it had turned again towards the house,
we met face to face. What was my surprise,
my consternation, in the ghost which
had caused us such trouble and vexation
to encounter — Margaret Anstruther ! Yet
there she was, no clothing on but her light
night - dress ; with her unbound tresses
streaming over her shoulders, and her
bare feet pressing the turf as though it
pained them.

Good God ! ' I exclaimed, as I staggered
back at the sight of this earthly
apparition, far more alarming to me than

if I had seen twenty ghosts ; ' Margaret
Lionne — what are you doing here ? '

At the sound of my voice she halted,
and turned her head slightly to one side,
as though to listen ; and then by the
moonlight I perceived to my horror that
her eyes were lifeless although open, and
that she was walking in her sleep. I had
never encountered such a sight before, and
for a moment I knew not what to do.

Was that Robert } ' she murmured,
presently, in a low, husky voice utterly
unlike her own, and as though she were
addressing herself, or nobody.

Yes, it is I,' I answered, trying to
control my agitation and my tones. ' Margaret,
why are you here ? why have you
left your bed ? '

Oh, Robert, Robert ! ' she exclaimed,
with an expression of anguish which I
shall never forget, * save me, save me ! '

From what am I to save you, Lionne ? '

From yourself — from yourself, and from
me — from my weakness and my folly. Oh,
don't let me fall ! don't let me fall ! '

Although she still spoke dreamily, the
sightless orbs which she had turned upon

me were contracted with pain, and I saw
that her whole frame was trembling, I
ventured to go close to her, and gently
take her hand.

You shall not fall, dear Lionne,' I
whispered to her ; * trust to me. I will
lead you the right way.'

'Dear Lionne ! ' she repeated to herself,
'dear Lionne! he says to me, dear Lionne! '

What was that quick fear which seized
me as I listened to her unconscious words ?
What that trembling which assailed my
limbs, and rendered me incapable of moving
either backwards or forwards ? The
fear and trembling fell so suddenly upon
me, that I had hardly time to realise their
presence, until they had resolved themselves
into a knowledge, fearful as a
thunderbolt from heaven, but certain as
that I live — or I must die !

I love her — and she loves me ! We
have destroyed each other's happiness.

As this conviction smote me, I dropped
her cold fingers, and sinking down upon
the hillock beside which she stood, buried
my face in my hands.

Good heavens ! how was it that I had

never anticipated this — never seen it coming
— never dreamt of such a contingency ?
that I had spent day after day in her
company ; reading with her, singing with
her, riding with her, Hastening to her amusing
conversation, watching all her womanly
kindness to my wife (ah, my poor wife !),
contemplating her beauty from hour to
hour, and never once suspected that I
might grow to love her more than was
good or right ? And she, the girl whose
advent I had dreaded, whose manners I
had so disliked, whose beauty was to meno
beauty at all !

Ah, Margaret, Margaret ! you may have
your revenge now if you will, in the assurance
that never, never more shall the remembrance
of that fatal beauty be purged
from my existence.

All was now explained ; her worn
looks and dispirited appearance ; my
own restless and uneasy sensations ;
the guilty feeling had been growing
in us, surely though unconsciously, for
many long days past, and needed but
some such accident as the present to
warm it into life.

Have I not reason to wish that I were
dead ?

I did not sit upon the hillock long ;
something was waiting to be done, and
that was not the time for thought. I could
not even stay to watch her as she again
commenced to pace beneath the moonlight,
with the evening breeze playing with her
flimsy raiment, and making it cling about
her graceful figure. I felt that she must
be coaxed to return into the house, and
that I was neither the right person nor ina
right state of mind to do it.

So I rose quickly, and explaining the
circumstances to Janie's ayah (an old woman
with more sense than the generality
of her tribe), directed her how to speak
soothingly to the young lady, and persuade
her to return to the house, where she need
be none the wiser for the untimely stroll
which she had taken ; and after a little
while I was relieved to see the white
hand in the grasp of the dark one, and
the two women, so unlike each other in
all outward appearance, pass into the house
together.

So now it is all over ; and the grey dawn

is here ; and as it was not worth while forme
to turn in before going to parade, I sit
down to transcribe the particulars of this
adventure before I forget it.

Shall I ever forget it ?

I am aware that henceforward, and before
the world, I must play a part ; but it
is useless to dissemble with my own heart.
This night has revealed to me what I had
rather have died than hear, but the truth
will make itself known.

I love her with my whole heart — passionately,
fervently, devotedly, as I have
never loved before. What is to come of
it .'^ What is to become of her, of me, of
Janie } Are we all to be sacrificed }

As I write, there come into my mind
these sentences : one which fell from her
mouth (sweet mouth, that shall never be
mine 1 ), and one which proceeded from my
own :

We who are strong should shield
them ; ' and, ' You shall not fall, trust to me
I will lead you the right way.'

No, dear Janie, poor innocent child !
and you, my beloved one, do not fear. I
will shield both the weak and the strong ;

you shall not suffer for my imprudence or
my guilt.

Yet how to comfort, how to cure, how to
make up to her for the misery I have entailed
on her dear head ? Oh, my God !
the task will be a hard one !

August wth, — I returned from
parade this morning tired, feverish,
and with a weight upon my
conscience as though I had committed
an unpardonable crime. I felt as if
I dared not face my injured wiiV, still less
the woman who has usurped her place in
my affections, or rather who holds the place
in which the other should have reigned.

Yet I was not only obliged to encounter
both of them, but to go through all the
formalities of daily life, without which
perhaps the trial would have proved too
much for my endurance.

Janie was the first ; for since her illness
she has not risen to breakfast, and I have
been in the habit of carrying in her tray
for her. It was with a shaking hand that

I lifted it to-day ; and the poor child
noticed the difference in my demeanour,
and asked me tenderly if I were ill or
tired. I had not quite made up my mind,
before that, whether I should inform Janie
of her cousin's propensity for somnambulism
or not ; but as I met the trusting
glance of her blue eyes, I resolved to do
so, not only because it was a thing which
might occur again and frighten her as
before, but also that by confiding even sofar
in my wife, I seemed voluntarily to
place a wider barrier between Lionne and
myself. Therefore I sat down on the bed,
and first binding her to secrecy, I related
to her how I had spent my late nights
upon the roof of the house, and by that
means arrived at a solution of the mystery
which had alarmed the native servants and
herself.

Didn't I tell you that your ghost would
prove to be nothing ? ' I said, trying to
speak gaily, in conclusion.

Oh, Robert dear,' was her reply, * do
you call poor Lionne walking in her sleep
nothing 1 I think it is horrible — almost
as bad as a real ghost ; and if I had been

you, I couldn't have gone near her for
worlds. I should have died of fright first.'

But, Janie, you see that I am not a
silly little girl, ready to believe every idle
tale which is repeated to her. And you
must show yourself to be a wise woman
on this occasion, and be very careful that
the story does not reach your cousin's ears,
as the knowledge is likely to make her
worse instead of better. I shall give the
ayah orders to hold her tongue, and sleep
outside the door in future, so that Miss
Anstruther may not wander about again
unobserved.'

And I mustn't tell Lionne, then, that
you caught her '^. ' said Janie, in a voice of
disappointment.

Certainly not,' I replied, decidedly ;
and I rose to leave her, only half-satisfied
that my wishes would be respected. Janie
would not disobey me knowingly for the
world — she has never attempted such a
thing ; but her little tongue goes so fast,
that she is apt to part with a secret before
she knows that it has left her keeping.

When I returned to the breakfast-room,
Lionne was already there, pale indeed and

rather silent, as she has been for several
weeks past, but showing no signs that she
was aware of our nocturnal meeting. But
as I took her hand in mine, I felt the blood
rush up to my temples, and my morning
greeting must have been nearly unintelligible
to her.

Why did I behave so foolishly ? She
is in all respects the same woman whom
I met yesterday with an ordinary salutations
— her manner even has not altered
towards me ; and yet the mere consciousness
that that of which I had been vaguely
dreaming is reality, was sufficient to make
me almost betray what I feel by the expression
of my features.

Is this my boasted strength ?

We took a silent meal, and altogether
an unprofitable one. I had no appetite ;
Lionne only trifled with the eatables upon
her plate ; and I think we both felt relieved
when the ceremony was concluded.

I did not see her for the remainder of
the morning, for I made an excuse of
business, and took my tiffin at the mess.
When I returned home at five o'clock,
however, I found Janie earnestly persuading

her cousin to take a ride on horseback.


Do make her go, Robert dear she
exclaimed, as soon as I came upon the
scene of action. ' She has not ridden for
weeks past, and she does look so pale. I
am sure it will be good for her ; you know
it will, Robert,' with violent winks and
blinks which were sufficient in themselves
to make the uninitiated stop to inquire
their reason.

I daresay it will,' I answered, obliged
to say something. ' Won't you be persuaded
? ' addressing Lionne.

She hesitated a little, but had no good
reason to advance for her hesitation ; and
after a little more pressing on Janie's part,
retired to put on her habit.

I am so glad that she is going,' exclaimed
my poor little caged bird, clapping
her hands at her success. ' Take great
care of her, Robert ; she is so kind to me.'

I will take care of her, Janie,' I answered,
earnestly, * and of you too. You
may trust me, my dear ; at least I hope so.'

Of course you take care of me sir,' she
replied, with a pretty pretension of pouting,

because I am your wife ; but I am not so
sure about my poor cousin.'

Be sure, then, Janie, if you can. I
shall try to do my duty by both of you.'

Who talked of duty ? ' cried my wife,
shrugging her shoulders. ' I never saw
any one grown so grave as you have,
Robert ; you never seem now to be able to
take a joke.'

I defended myself from this accusation
on the plea of having found several grey
hairs in my moustache last week ; and
before Janie had done laughing at the idea,
Miss Anstruther re-appeared, and I lifted
her on her horse as though she were an
ordinary friend to me, and my hands did
not tremble under the burden of the creature
I loved best in the world.

We rode on in silence together for some
moments, and then I turned my horse's
head towards the sandy plain which I have
before mentioned as lying between us and
the ocean, and told her that I was about to
take her down to the beach, that she might
derive a little benefit from the sea-breeze.

Colonel Anstruther will not think that
we have been taking sufficient care of you,

Margaret, If we send you to him with
such pale cheeks as you have now. I
am afraid you find the hot weather very
trying.'

I never liked the hot weather, even In
England,' she answered vaguely, whilst the
rich blood mounted to her cheek beneath
the scrutinising glance which I had turned
towards her.

Our beach at Mushin-Bunda is hardly to
be called a beach : for it possesses scarcely
any shingles, but is composed of hillocks
of loose sand which never stay in one place.
two nights together, but are ever shifting
quarters, and are about as treacherous footing
for an animal as one could desire. We
passed over these carefully, however, and
then we found ourselves upon the lower
sands, which are daily washed by the sea,
and rendered firm and level. Here we
halted ; for it was low tide, and the refreshing
salt breeze fanned our hot faces, whilst
the horses we rode stretched out their
necks, and dilated their nostrils as though
to drink in as much of it as they could.

Still we were very silent, and under the
knowledge which had come to me the night

VOL. I. L

before, the silence was even more oppressive
than usual.

This is delicious ! ' I exclaimed at last ;
worth coming farther than three miles to
enjoy. This will do you good, Margaret.'

Yes,' she sighed. ' What would one
not give for a little of it occasionally during
these hot nights ! '

You do not sleep well,' I said, struck
by a sudden impulse.

She coloured as I addressed her ; but
that is nothing new.

I don't think I sleep badly,' she replied,
after a pause. ' I seldom lie awake for any
length of time, but — '

But when you rise in the morning, you
feel unrefreshed and tired.'

'How do you know that } ' she demanded
quickly.

I guessed it, Margaret. I guess it from
your looks, your demeanour, your languor.
I know that you do not rest properly at
night, and that if you will not take seasonable
advice you will be ill.'

I am not ill,' she answered in a low voice.

But you will be, which, under present
circumstances, would greatly distress Janie.

Will you not consent to see a doctor — if
not for your own sake, for ours ? '

I thought that physical care might in
some measure relieve the mental disturbance
under which she labours, or, at all
events, prevent a repetition of her somnambulistic
tendencies by which her secret
may, some day, be made patent to the
world. I never imagined she would guess
my meaning ; but the next moment I saw
the mistake which I had made.

'What have I been doing?' she exclaimed,
turning round with a rapidity for
which I was totally unprepared. ' What
have I been saying ? Tell me at once,
Captain Norton ; don't keep me in suspense.'
And her dark eyes blazed upon
me as though they would search into my
very heart.

I trembled beneath the look, and was
dumb.

Why do you think I cannot rest — that
I shall be ill 't ' she re-demanded almost
angrily ; and then reading the truth, I suppose,
in my confused demeanour, she added
in a lower voice, a voice almost of terror,
Have I been walking in Tuy sleep ? '

The ice was broken, then ; and although
I still felt very uncomfortable in speaking
to her of the circumstance, I did not see
any other course open to me than to tell
her briefly of my endeavour to find out the
reason of my wife's alarm, and the consequences
which had ensued from it.

I had not wished to mention this to
you,' I said apologetically, * and only the
directness of your question should have
drawn it from me. However, as it is, I
daresay it is for the best ; for though the
occurrence is a common one, it is as well
to guard against its repetition.'

What did I say ? ' was the only reply
which she made to my concluding observation.


I had so slurred over the fact of her
speaking at all that I hoped it had escaped
her notice ; but the tone in which she put
this question portended that she meant to
have it answered.

'What did I say to you, Captain Norton
? ' she repeated firmly.

I began to mumble something about the
words of sleep-walkers being always unintelligible,
but she brought me back to the point.

You must have heard me ; in fact, I
can see by your face that you did hear.
What was it that I said ? '

I was so sleepy, Margaret I commenced,
but I felt my voice shaking
audibly, — ' so sleepy, and altogether so
confused, and my memory not being of
the best, that I — I — really I — '

She gazed at me for a minute earnestly,
almost hungering — I could feel it, though
I did not see it — but I kept my eyes fixed
over the sea, and a dead silence ensued
between us. A dead silence, until it was
broken by the living sound of tears ; and I
turned to see her dear head bent to her
saddle-bow, and her slight figure shaken
with her grief.

Margaret, dear Margaret ! ' I exclaimed,
forgetting everything but herself, ' it was
nothing — indeed it was nothing ; a few
words spoken at random, of which no one
in his senses would think twice, or be so
presumptuous as to understand as the interpretation
of your true feelings towards him.'

But in my anxiety and ardour I had
blurted out far more than I intended.

Be silent ! ' she cried, as she lifted an

indignant burning face to mine — ' be silent,
Captain Norton ! if you do not wish to insult
me, or make me hate myself and you.'
And with that she dashed her hand impetuously
across her eyes, and gathering
up her reins, turned her horse's head away
from the sea-beach and began to canter
towards home. I followed her, of course ;
but we did not exchange another word,
and she would not even condescend to
meet the imploring glance which, as I took
her from the saddle, I lifted towards her
face, mutely entreating for forgiveness.

She behaved much the same as usual
during the remainder of the evening ; only
that I saw she studiously avoided coming
in contact with myself What a fool I
was to say as much as I did ! I, who
almost registered a vow this morning that
nothing should tear the secret from my
lips. And now I have betrayed her to
herself I see she shuns me ; I know she
fears me ; I almost believe I have made
her hate me. Well, I have brought it on
myself, and I must bear it as best I may ;
it only proves how little we know when
we think — as I did this morning — that the

world cannot hold a greater misfortune for
us than the one we then endure.

Oh, Lionne, Lionne ! what is to be the
end of this ?

Atigitst \2th. — I was scarcely surprised
when Janie came to-day to tell me in a
broken voice that her cousin had just informed
her of her intention to leave Muslin
as soon as possible, and that she
had already written to Mrs Grant to ask
if she could receive her at Madras until
her uncle's wishes with respect to her movements
should be made known. I was not
surprised, because I felt convinced that,
after what had passed between us yesterday
afternoon, her proud spirit would forbid
her remaining under the same roof with
me, if any alternative were open to her ;
at the same time I felt deeply hurt to
think that my imprudence should be the
means of driving her from the shelter of
it. Janie, on the other hand, innocent as
to the cause, had no reason to feel hurt,
except by the want of confidence reposed
in her ; but she was wonderfully astonished,
and disposed to resent my not being so as
an additional grievance.

Why, you don't seem in the least surprised
to hear it, Robert ! ' she complained.
Has Margaret said anything about it to
you before ? '

The subject has never been broached
between us ; but Miss Anstruther has a
right, of course, to follow her own inclinations,
and we none to interfere with them.'

No ; but what can be the reason ?'

Did you not ask her, Janie ? '

Of course ; but she only says that she
does not feel so well here as she did at
Madras.'

I think that is quite sufficient to account
for her desiring a change. Strength soon
gives way in this country ; and I don't
think your cousin has been looking well or
strong lately. What we know of her sleepwalking
propensity is a proof of that.'

Then I mustn't persuade her to stop
with us, Robert ? ' continued Janie, pleadingly.


By no means, dear. Let her follow
the bent of her own wishes ; it will be best
for all of us.'

But Uncle Henry will be so surprised ;
and I am afraid he will be angry — and —

and I had so hoped she was going to stay
with me, Robert ; and I feel so ill — and —
and — so nervous, and I can't bear that
Margaret should go away.' And here the
poor girl was quite overcome by the prospect
of her own weakness and her companion's
departure, and burst into a flood
of childish tears.

I felt very sorry for Janie. She has so
thoroughly enjoyed the society of her
cousin, and she is not in a condition to be
vexed and thwarted with impunity. And
then again I thought of Lionne travelling
all the way back to Madras by herself, to
accept a home from strangers, with nothing
but her present unhappiness and her future
uncertainty to bear her company ; and I
felt that neither of these should be the one
to suffer, and that if the circumstances
required a victim, it should be myself. I
did not particularly wish to leave my regiment,
nor my wife, nor any one else ; but
if it is impossible for us to continue on the
same footing with one another, I felt that
I should be the one to go. So I did not
hesitate ; but telling Janie to keep her
tears until she should be sure they were

required, went In search of Margaret An-stretcher.


She was neither In the drawing-room
nor In the dining-room, but In a Httle antechamber
which It pleases my wife to call
her boudoir, but which Is the dullest and
most unfrequented apartment In the house.
There I found her, lying on the sofa, shading
her eyes with her hand, but making no
attempt at work or reading.

Margaret, may I speak to you ? *

I could not, because I had offended her,
go back to the more formal appellation of
Miss Anstruther ;' It seemed so much as
though we had quarrelled.

If it Is of anything I should care to
hear,' she said languidly.

It is of something to which I much
desire you should listen,' I replied. * Janle
has just been telling me that you purpose
leaving us. Is that true ? '

It Is,' she answered curtly, but not
unkindly.

I will not ask you for what reason,' I
went on to say, ' because your wishes are
your own, and shall be sacred ; but if your
decision is not irrevocable, think twice

before you Inflict such a disappointment
on poor Janie. You know how weak and
ill she is at present'

Captain Norton, I must go.'

'Must you? If I leave the house myself
— if I leave the cantonment, and do
not return ? '

You are not in earnest ? ' she said,
raising her eyes to mine, too weary to be
called surprised.

I am. I have honor Intended o^olnor to
Haldabad on a shooting excursion, which
may detain me for two or three months.
Inadvertently almost I have delayed it,
your visit and Janie's illness coming in the
way ; but now I am ready to start at twelve
hours' notice, if need be — indeed, I am
anxious to be gone.'

And what will Janle say to that, Captain
Norton ?' she demanded In a lowered
voice.

At this moment I believe that my absence
will affect Janie less than your
departure would do. She is very much
attached to you, and she feels the comfort
of a woman's presence. Added to which,
Margaret, I am in a great measure responsible

to your uncle for your proceedings,
and I shall not feel easy if you leave my
house for a stranger's without previously
asking his consent. He will imagine I
have proved unfaithful to my trust. Do
you wish others to think as badly of me as
I do of myself ? '

As I uttered these words I dropped my
voice almost to a whisper, but she heard
them plainly.

Oh, let me go ! let me go ! ' she exclaimed
wildly. ' It will be better, far
better, for all of us. I cannot, indeed I
cannot, remain here ; the air of this place
stifles me.'

I have made you despise me,' I said
despondently.

No ; oh no ! ' and her dark eyes were
fixed upon me for a moment with an expression
which I would have kept in them
for ever ; ' but — you know. Captain Norton,
that it is best — that, in fact, we must part'

I do know it,' I replied ; ' and therefore
I am going. By this time tomorrow
I hope to have made all necessary
preparations, and to be ready for a start.
Meanwhile you will stay here — I know

you will, because I ask you — to comfort
and look after Janie until you receive your
uncle's consent to go to Madras. And
when it arrives, and you have left Muslin
I will return to it.'

And we shall never, never meet again ! *
she said, in a voice so broken as to be
almost inarticulate.

I dared not answer her ; had I spoken,
I must have poured out all my heart.

You have consented } ' were my next
words.

Yes, since you think it best ; only I
am sorry to be the means of driving you
from home.'

If you are — though you have no need
to be — will you give me one recompense,
Margaret ? '

She lifted her eyes inquiringly ; speech
seemed almost lost to her.

Say you forgive me for what I told you
yesterday. I have sorely reproached myself
since.'

She stretched out her hand, and met
mine in a grasp which, though firm, was
cold as that of death.

Then we part friends 1 '

It was again myself who spoke ; she
nodded her head in acquiescence, and I
felt my prudence evaporating, and rushed
from the apartment.

Written down, this interview seems
nothing ; but to those who feel as we do,
the misery of years may be compressed
into an hour ; and that small room, for
both of us, was worse than a torture-chamber.


I have scarcely seen her since, except at
meals ; but, as I anticipated, my wife was
so delighted to learn that she should retain
her cousin's company, that she thought
next to nothing of my proposed shooting
excursion, except to beg that I would take
care of myself, and to wonder how I could
like going after those * horrid bears ' and
awful tigers.' Indeed, on the whole, I
half suspect the little woman is rather
glad to get rid of me, and pleased at the
idea of having Margaret all to herself fora
few weeks ; for she has occasionally displayed
the faintest touch of jealousy when
I have broken up their tete-astute conferences.
So I have sent them word down
to the Fort to lay my * dark ' for me, and

I shall start as soon as tomorrow's sun
goes down.

I almost think we shall have a storm
first, which would pleasantly clear the air ;
for the sky has been indigo-colour all today,
and there is a strange heaviness over
everything as I write.

I have been packing my portmanteau
and cleaning my weapons, until I have
fairly tired myself out ; but were I to stop
to think, I could never summon courage
enough to go. The household is asleep,
and has been for hours ; and I am sadly
in want of rest ; for I can hardly keep my
eyes open or guide my pen upon the paper
and yet I feel as though I should never
sleep again.

Bah ! I must be mad or dreaming. I
am only starting on an ordinary shooting
excursion, and I feel as though I were
going to my grave.

This is folly — monomania ; I shall be

thankful when the hour comes for me to

leave.

• •••••••

Madras, October 20th. — It is more than
two months since I transcribed a line in

this written record of my inmost thoughts
more than two months since that awful,
horrible, and most unexpected catastrophe
occurred, which I cannot now recall without
a shudder, and which, for a time,
seemed as if it must obliterate my reason
or my life. But I am spared (though I
cannot yet say, thank God that it is so) ;
and were it not that my soul seems to die
within me, and my energy to languish for
want of some one or thing to which I may
confide my sorrow, I should not have the
courage even now to write the story down.
But I must speak, even though it be but to
a silent confidant, for my spirit fails for
lack of sympathy ; and therefore I draw
out my old diary, and having read (shall I
be ashamed to say with tears ?) what I have
written in these foregoing pages, proceed
to bring the tale to a conclusion.

Let me try to collect my scattered
thoughts, so apt to wander when I approach
this miserable subject, and carry
them back to the eventful moment when I
last left off-sto the night of the 12th of
August.

I had sat up, packing my wardrobe and

writing my diary, until I had fairly tired
myself out, and then, having put away my
book and writing materials into the table-drawer,
I locked it, and lighting a cigar,
sat down to think ; of what, and in what
strain, I and these pages, to my misery,
best know.

I had no intention of permitting myself
to fall asleep ; but it is my custom to smoke
just before retiring to bed, and I should
have anticipated a broken rest without the
indulgence. At the same time my fatigue
was greater than I thought, and after a
little while drowsiness came over me, and
before I knew that sleep was coming, I
was in the land of dreams.

And such a land ! Thank heaven, for
those who are not destined in this world to
know substantial happiness, that dreams
remain to them.

I dreamt that I was with Margaret again
on the sea-shore ; not riding, but wandering
hand-in-hand ; not speaking coldly or with
averted faces, but eyes to eyes, and heart
to heart. I dreamt that I was watching
the damask blush which mantled on her
cheek, and listening to the low, mellow

VOL. I. M

sound of her rich voice, and that mingled
with my own reply came the hoarse murmur
of the ocean as it swelled and surged upon
the shore.

I dreamt that we were one ; one not in
the earthly acceptation of the word, but in
that fuller sense by which spirits are united
to each other, never more to part ; and that
as we strolled upon the beach together we
knew that neither death nor injury could
sever us again. And amidst it all I was
listening to the hoarse murmur of the
waves, which rolled up to our very feet,
and broke away, but to return with an
energy louder and more imperative than
before. I dreamt that as I stood thus,
enfolding my new-found treasure in my
arms, I started to find that the sky
was overcast, and that the tide had
surrounded us, and was behind as well
as before, and threatening to overwhelm
my darling. I dreamt that in my fear
and solicitude I drew her backwards,
trembling for her safety, and that as I
whispered words of love and reassurance,
I woke — to dream no more.

I woke, at the bidding of a loud and

terrified scream from the lips of my native
servants, and springing to my feet, became
first aware of a sensation of intense chillness,
and next, as my remaining senses
gradually returned to me, of a hoarse
murmur somewhere near me, which recalled
the memory of my dream.

The night was intensely dark ; there
seemed to be neither moon nor stars, and
for one moment I stood, uncertain which
way to move, and waiting to hear if the
cry had only been my fancy, or would be
repeated. Too soon it came again, this
time louder, more terrified, more piercing
than before ; and its burden words of fearful
import, too fearful to be at first believed.

Master ! master!' it said in Hindustani;

master, the sea is on us ! ' And before I
could scarcely realise the meaning of the
words, the natives who slept in the verandah
had rushed into, my presence, and were
immediately followed by a huge wave of
water, which, with the hollow roar to which
I had listened in my dreams, burst into the
unprotected sitting-rooms, and washed over
my feet.

Master ! ' cried the natives, as they

clambered upon tables and chairs, ' the sea
has burst its bounds ; the sea is coming onus
; the whole cantonment will be underwater
! '

Close the doors and windows ! ' I exclaimed
loudly ; but no one stirred, and I
attempted to set them the example of doing
as I said, but it was too late. I perceived
a dark volume of water stealing stealthily
upon us from all sides, and even as I
advanced towards the verandah, a huge
wave dashed against me, washing me to
the middle, knocking me backwards on the
drawing-room table, and carrying away a
chair as it retreated. At the same momenta
scream from the women's apartments told
me that the sea had reached that quarter ;
and with no thought but for the safety of
those dear to me, I dashed without ceremony
into Miss Anstruther's room. I
found her pale and trembling, but just
awakened, sitting on the side of her bed
with her bare feet in a river of sea water.

What is the matter ? ' she gasped as I
entered.

The sea has overflowed the cantonment,'
I replied hastily, as I quickly lifted

her in my arms ; ' but trust to me, Llonne,
and I will take you to a place of safety.'

She shuddered but made no resistance,
until I had carried her to the diningroom,
now half full of water, and was
preparing to wade with her through the
verandah, and place her on the roof of
the house.

But where is Janie ? ' she exclaimed, as
she looked with horror on the advancing
mass of water ; ' oh, where is Janie ? '

At her question I nearly dropped my
burden ; for the moment I had entirely
forgotten my poor wife, whose screams
were patent from the adjoining room.

Go to her,' said Lionne, as she struggled
from my embrace, and slid down into the
cold waves, against the violence of which
she could hardly support herself. ' Go at
once ! What were you thinking of? She
will drown, if you do not take care.'

I am doing as much as I can,' I answered
hurriedly. ' Let me place you in
safety first, and then I will return for her.
I cannot carry two at once.'

And you would leave her to the last ? '
she said indignantly ; ' she, in whom two

lives are wrapt in one ! Oh, Robert ! I
did not think it of you.'

But, my beloved — ' I commenced, in an
agony at her delay.

Go ! ' she said authoritatively ; and I
left her to her fate, and went.

I found my poor little wife wet through
and screaming for help ; and lifting her in
my arms, I carried her, buffeting with the
water as I went, through the dining and
drawing-rooms to the outer verandah.

Hold fast — take the greatest care of
yourself,' I exclaimed in an agony of fear,
as I battled past the white-clad figure
which was clinging to the door-posts. ' I
will return, Lionne, as soon as ever I
can.'

I am not afraid ; God will take care of
me,' was the calm reply ; and I strode
forwards into deeper and deeper water
with each step. When I reached the
verandah the struggle was severe, for there
the waves were highest and strongest ; but
although much impeded by Janie's terrified
clasp, I managed to wade with her to the
foot of the ladder, and as soon as I had
accomplished two or three steps of that,

the rest was easy. I toiled with my helpless
burden up to the roof, despair lending
strength to my limbs ; and as soon as I
had reached it, I found myself in a goodly
company of natives, who, with a few unfortunate
exceptions, had managed to gain
the top of the house as soon as the flood
had surprised them. Having delivered
Janie to the care of the ayah, I rushed
down again to the assistance of Lionne,
my heart throbbing as though it would
burst with the fear that my efforts might
be made too late. The water was now
higher than ever in the verandah, and I
began to be afraid that I should have to
swim back again. I dashed on as vigorously
and quickly as I could towards the
door, to the lintels of which I had left her
clinging. She was not there !

The dark water was swaying and surging
through the deserted rooms ; the furniture
was floating about in the most dire confusion
; trunks, portmanteaus, and other
trivial articles knocked up against me at
every turn before they drifted out to sea ;
but my beloved I saw nowhere. In an
agony I called upon her name, making the

walls resound with my voice, caring nothing
who heard or listened to me.

Llonne, Llonne ! my dearest, my beloved
! where are you ? Speak to me.'

But no voice answered mine, no moan
or groan reached my ears ; and I waded
into the chamber which had been my
wife's.

Ah, what was that ? — that helpless mass
of white drapery clinging about delicately-moulded
limbs, which swayed about In one
corner, prevented by the wall — thank
gracious heaven ! — from floating out to
sea with chairs and tables, but being
knocked against that cruel wall with every
motion of the waves, until no apparent life
was left In it.

I took her senseless body in my arms,
thankful even in that condition to have it
there ; and lifting the dear white face above
the reach of the impetuous tide, laid my
cheek against her own, although I believed
that human warmth would never again
visit It. It was no time for words or even
thought. I pressed her to me as fondly as
though the waves had been our bridal bed ;
and resenting the despair which urged me

to let the cruel water carry us both away
together then and there, battled with it
once more, and bore my treasure to the
place of safety. But it was with feelings
such as no words of mine can describe, that
I laid her beauteous form, cold, dripping,
on the bare bricks with which the roof is
paved. I had already stripped myself of
coat and waiscoatfor Janie ; and there was
nothing on which to lay the senseless
body of my darling but the wet cloths
which the natives could contribute, and
an old piece of carpet which was kept up
there.

Meanwhile the hoarse flood continued
to roll and murmur below, becoming
deeper and deeper with each surge of the
mass of waters ; and cries of distress were
heard from the surrounding houses ; and
the articles of furniture which floated past
us began to be mingled with a vision of
dead faces turned sightlessly towards the
moon, now beginning to struggle out from
behind the canopy of dark clouds which
had hitherto concealed her. And still I
bent above the face which had become so
unutterably dear to me, and prayed heaven

to let her know me once more, if but for a
moment's time.

Meanwhile poor Janie, exhausted by the
fright she had undergone, and the grief
she felt at the condition of her cousin, had
fallen into a state which was half sleep and
half syncope, and lay reclining with her
head upon her ayah's lap.

And brother officers shouted to me from
the roofs of neighbouring houses, asking if
we were all safe — all well ; and I answered
that I hoped, I trusted so ; and prayed
heaven again to let her know me once more
before she died.

And God granted me my prayer. Towards
morning she awoke to consciousness.
Just as the grey dawn commenced
to break, and that dreadful flood, which
continued for forty-eight hours to pervade
the devoted cantonment, began to show
symptoms of being at its height, she opened
her dark eyes and gazed at me.

Where am I ? ' she said, faintly.

Here, dearest,' I replied, all reserve
vanished in the face of death, — ' here in
my arms ; in the arms of him who loves
you better than his life.'

It is not hard to die so,' she whispered ;
but as she spoke an expression of agony
passed over her countenance.

Are you in great pain, Lionne ? '

Yes,' she replied with effort.

Where, dearest ? tell me.'

Everywhere — all over. I was knocked
down so often.'

Ah, my beloved ! and I not there to
help you.'

You were doing your duty, Robert ;
and it will soon be over now — all will be
over soon — all pain — all — '

Not mine,' I murmured in an agony.
Lionne, tell me — but once before we part
say that you love me ! '

My legacy,' she whispered, with a faint
smile. * Yes, Robert ; with all my heart —
as my life, better than my life.'

O God, spare her ! ' I cried aloud.

O God, take me ! ' she said herself ;
take me from misery and disappointment
to where there are no tears.'

And how am I to live without you ? '
I exclaimed.

Her dark eyes met mine reproachfully.


Janle — your child,' she gasped. ' I —
I could have been — nothing.'

You are all the world to me ! ' I exclaimed,
passionately.

She lay quiet for a few moments, and
then she opened her eyes wide, and fixed
them upon mine.

Promise' she gasped — ' Janie — to love
to love — to comfort — to — '

She fell back in my arms, and for a few
minutes I watched with inexpressible pain
the convulsive working of her beautiful
features.

Better — so much better — that I should
go,' she whispered, after a long pause ;
and as she said the words she went.

It was the corpse of Margaret Anstruther,
and of all my earthly happiness, that I laid
down upon the sodden rags and piece of
carpet.

I have no heart to write down the details
of what followed. For two days that cruel
flood pervaded Mushin-Bunda before it
showed symptoms of subsiding ; and before
that time arrived, several hundred lives
(chiefly natives) had been sacrificed. We

lost nearly all our furniture, though several
pieces were left stranded in the compound
when the waters retired ; amongst others,
the writing-table which held my diary.

But what avails it to speak of personal
loss at such a time as this ? My poor wife,
from the combined effects of cold, fatigue,
and terror, had a very serious illness, from
which at one time I almost feared she
might not recover ; and on her return to
health I brought her to Madras, from which
place I write. She is now herself again ;
and I am in good health and tolerable
spirits ; and — and Margaret sleeps alone
in a shady corner of the English burying-ground
at Mushin-Bunda. No, not alone !
God is my witness that my heart sleeps
with her !

Note added ten years later.
I have been looking over my old diaries
to-day, and burning most of them ; but
something within me seems to forbid that
I should destroy these few pages which record
the history of my brief acquaintanceship
with Margaret Anstruther. They are
the only remembrance I have left of her.

Ten years have waxed and waned since
the dark night she died ; what have they
left me ? A wife whom I love and in whom
I trust ; who, I may safely say, I would
exchange for no woman living ; who has
brought me children, loving and docile as
herself, and very dear to me ; a happy
peaceful home (no longer in the East) ; a
moderate competence ; and a name which I
trust no man holds highly.

And to these many blessings I add contentment,
and wonder what more good on
this earth a mortal could expect.

On this earth none ; but whilst I ponder,
I thank God that this earth is not the end
of all things.

There was a time when I used to think
and say that all my happiness lay buried
in the grave of Lionne ; but I have lived
to learn and believe that at the Last Day
it shall rise again, with her to bloom, ten
thousand times renewed, in heaven !

THE END.

'■mmmm

OLD Contrary,

T was at the close of a sultry
day in June, that the passenger
vessel, ' Star of the North,'
coasted the island of Martinique
on her way to Barbadoes. The sea was
calm as a summer lake, and an ominous
stillness reigned in the surrounding atmosphere
that made the words of a song,
trolled out by a free, manly voice from the
forecastle, distinctly heard in every part of
the vessel, —

Wherever you be, by land or sea.
Why, set your heart at rest ;
For you may be sure, come kill or cure
Whatever is, is best ! '

Don't believe it,' grumbled an old seaman,
who was seated on a coil of rope

mending a sail. ' I wish I'd had the
ordering of my own life, any way. I'd
have soon seen if it was best for me to be
situated as I am at this here present ! '

He was a fine old man, with rugged but
well-cut features and muscular limbs. He
had a clear blue eye, and silvery locks that
showed he had been a handsome fellow in
his day ; but something or other had put
him out of love with life, and his habitual
mood was one of discontent. A passenger,
who was pacing the quarterdeck, with a
thoughtful countenance, turned at the old
sailor's words and confronted the speaker.

Don't you believe in a Providence
that overrules all our actions, Williams .^ '
he demanded abruptly.

Oh yes, Mr Egerton, I believe in
Providence fast enough ; but when I see
want and misery and injustice on every
side of me, I cannot help thinking as our
actions might be ruled a little straighter
for us.'

We are all apt to think the same, but
that is because we cannot see the end
of the beginning. Perhaps, too, you have
never prayed that Providence might extend
its fostering care over you ? '

You're mistaken, sir. No man ever
prayed more than I used to do. I was a

recr'iar converted Christian at one time:
and a moral example, but 'wasn't no
manner of use. No one never heard nor
answered my prayers, and so I left offa
saying 'em, and I don't see as my
troubles are a bit the fuss for it, neither.
Everybody seems to get much of a muchness
in this world, let 'em wear out their
marre bones or not.'

He re-applied himself to the patching of
his sail, and the young man who had
addressed him looked over the dark blue
waters and sighed. He, too, had prayed
for some weeks past that a certain blessing
on which he had set his heart might be
granted him, and his prayers had been
returned upon his hands, as it were, unanswered.
He was a very sad and disappointed
man that evening, but his faith
in Heaven was not one whit shaken by
the trouble that had overtaken him.
Even the clear, ringing laughter of Miss
Herbert, as she sat on the poop and
responded to the badinage and compliments
of the group of gentlemen by which she
was surrounded, although it made Egerton's
brave heart quiver with pain, had
not the power to cause it to despair.

Williams,' he said, after a pause, ' you
are altogether wrong. Prayer may not

VOL. I. N

be answered at once, nor in the manner
we anticipate, but it is always heard, and
what that song says is true, — '* Whatever
is, is best." It must be.'

But Williams still looked dubious.

It's all very well for them, sir, as is rich
and young, and got all their life before
'em, to think so. I dare say everything
do seem best to them ; but let 'em be
sick and sorry and old, and obliged to
work hard for their living, and I warrant
they'd sing to a different sort of tune.'

Are you sick, Williams ? '

Pretty middling', sir. I've done a deal of
hard work in my time, and I has the rheumatics
that bad in my hands sometimes
as makes every stitch I put a trouble to me.'

Are you sorry ? '

Well, I've had my share of that lot,
Mr Egerton ; but as Tve told you already,
'twas nothing' to nobody what I suffered
nor what I felt, and so I've learned to hold
my tongue upon the matter.'

Richard Egerton looked at the old
sailor's rugged face, down which time or
trouble had made many a furrow, and his
heart went out to this fellow-creature, who
had sorrowed perhaps as much as he was
doing himself, and had no outward alleviation
for the world's injustice.

Did you ever watch two people play a
game of chess, Williams ? ' he asked,
presently.

Do you mean them little figures as
they move about on a black-and-white
board, same as we use for draughts, sir ? '

I do.'

Oh yes ! I've watched the passengers
playing that game many a time.'

Didn't it puzzle you at first to understand
why the players should sometimes allow
their men to be taken from them, or even
place them in positions of danger where they
could not possibly escape being captured .-' '

• Yes, sir ! ' cried old Williams, brightening
up with intelligence. ' I remember
there was one gentleman that crossed with
us last year to Trinidad, and he used to
boast that there was no one on board could
beat him at that game. And no more
there was, and his play was always to let
the other sweep near half his men off the
board afore he'd begin in earnest at all.
Lord ! I've stood and watched 'em when I
was off duty, many and many a time, and
been as near as possible a-crying out to
him to take care ; but he had got the
game, sir, at his fingers' end, and always
came oft' victor, whoever sat down with him.'

'Just so. That gentleman's plan must

have seemed inexplicable to anyone who
was Ignorant of the rules of chess, but
those who knew them and watched them
to the end, would have understood that he
allowed his knights and pawns to betaken
only, that he might preserve his
queen and his castle, and win the game
for them all. Do you follow me ? '

I think I can, sir, though I don't know
where the dickens you're a leading me to.'

Only to this point — that you must try
and think in the same way of the dealings
of Providence with men. We cannot tell
why one of us is rich and the other poor ;
why one has blessings in this life and the
other nothing but troubles. But God
does. We only see the effect ; He knows
the cause. He is the player of the game,
Williams, and does not allow one piece to
be taken captive by the enemy, except
with a view to final victory.'

Well, sir, that's all very clever argumentation,
but it don't convince me. It's
sorry work listening' to reason for comfort.
He's swept away all my pieces, one after
another — there's no question about that —
and left me alone in the world, and I can't
see the mercy of it nor the justice either,'
replied the old man in a discontented
tone.

But it Is not only to the sick and the
old and the poor that He deals out His
judgments,' continued Egerton sadl3\
We all have our troubles, in whatever
position we may be placed.'

At this moment the man up on the forecastle
shouted again at the top of his voice,
'Whatever is, is best.'

I wish that Ben's tongue was a little
shorter,' exclaimed Williams hastily. ' He's
always a bawling' out them cheerful songs,
as makes a feller feel twice as coldhearted
as he did afore.'

'Twould be all the same to you, '' Old
Contrairy," whatever he sung,' remarked
another sailor in passing ; ' for the song
ain't written yet as would give pott any
satisfaction to listen to.'

Well, I likes to hear sense, whatever it
be,' shouted " Old Contrairy " after him.
Look at that bank of clouds, rolling up
from leeward. We shall have a squall
before long, as sure as I sits here. However,
I suppose that fool Ben would go on
shouting' 'whatever is, is best," if the
'' Star of the North" was split into fifty
pieces, and he was just going' under water
with his mouth choke full of weed.'

Heaven forbid !' exclaimed Egerton, ashe
turned away to seek his cabin. His

conversation with the old seaman had had
the effect of increasing his depression, and
he felt as if he could not trust himself to
argue with him any longer. He would
have much preferred on this sultry evening
to take up his usual quarters on the poop,
where the rest of the passengers were
assembled ; but he had not the courage to
go there. So the poor young fellow left
the deck, and, entering his cabin threw
himself down upon the sofa, which served
him for a bedstead, and abandoned himself
to the luxury of grief. He was altogether
too young and too good-looking to feel so
utterly bereft of hope. His bright brown
curls covered a brow which was full of
intellect, and bore upon its broad expanse
the best sion of an honourable man — the
impress of frankness and truth. His deep
blue eyes, now so dull and troubled with
disappointment, were generally bright and
mirthful, and his athletic limbs, although
but the growth of four-and-twenty years,
gave promise of an unusual acquisition of
meanly strength and power.

And Richard Egerton had other heritages
besides those of youth and beauty. He
was the possessor, as the old seaman had
intimated, of wealth and influence. He
had been adopted in his infancy by a rich,

relation, who had lately died, leaving him the
whole of his fortune and his large estates
in Barbadoes, on the condition that he
assumed the name of Egerton, instead of
that which had been his by birth. But
what did all these advantages avail the
poor lad to-day ? — this day which had
dawned so full of hope, and was now about
to set upon the heaviest heart he had ever
carried in his bosom. And pretty Amy
Herbert, whose laughter still reached his
ear at times, even where he lay, was the
cause of all this trouble. They were not
entirely new acquaintances. He had met
her in England some months before, and
had taken his passage to Barbadoes by the
Star of the North " only because he heard
that she was going to travel in it to join
her father, who was a civilian of some
repute in Trinidad. He had admired her
from the first moment of their acquaintance,
and the weeks they had spent on board
had ripened his admiration into love, and
made him hope, as he had had every reason
to do, that she was not indifferent to himself.
He believed that his position as owner of
considerable property in the West Indies
would have ensured a favourable reception
at the hands of her father, and had approached
the subject of marriage with her.

if not with the certainty of being met halfway,
at least with a modest hope that she
could not think him presumptuous. And
Amy Herbert had refused his offer — pointblank
and without hesitation — unequivocally
and decidedly refused it. It had
fallen upon him as an unmitigated blow.
How lovely she had looked that morning
when he found her sitting in her basket-chair
in a corner of the poop, shading her
sweet, soft eyes from the glaring light with
a rose-lined parasol. How confidently he
had believed that he should see the long
lashes lowered over those beautiful eyes,
and the maiden flush of combined shyness
and pleasure mount to that delicate cheek,
as he poured forth his tale of love to her.

Others had watched the young couple
sitting so close together on the poop that
morning, and guessed what was going on.
Others had seen Richard Egerton bending
lower and lower over his pretty fellow-passenger,
and gazing into her eyes as
though he would read her very soul, ashe
whispered his hopes to her. The poor
young fellow had been very modest over
it, but he had made so sure that Amy
Herbert's looks and actions could not have
deceived him, that he had almost thanked
her beforehand for the answer he expected

to receive. And she had Hastened to his
proposal with well-feigned surprise, and
rejected it with ill-advised haste. She had
thought in her silly, girlish inexperience
that it was more correct and womanly to
appear horrified at the first idea of marriage,
and she had been almost as despairing
as himself as she saw Richard Egerton
take her at her word and turn away without
a second appeal, to hide his wounded
pride below. She was deeply repenting
her abrupt dismissal of him as she flirted
on the poop with Captain Barrington, who
was returning from leave to join his regiment
in Barbadoes. But how was poor
Egerton to know that, as he cast himself
dejectedly upon his narrow berth and lay,
face downwards, with his eyes pressed upon
the pillow, lest the hot tears that scorched
them should overflow and betray his weakness
? The sound of her voice tortured
him. He believed that she must be in
earnest in showing a preference for Captain
Barrington, and he was not yet strong
enough to watch her fair face smiling on
another man. So he delivered himself
over to melancholy, and tried hard to
believe that he would not have things
other than they were.

'Whatever is, is best,' he kept on repeating

inwardly. ' It will not do for me
to preach a lesson to another man that I
am unable to apply to myself. Besides,
it is true. I know it to be so. My whole
existence has proved it hitherto.'

Yet the smiling, sunlit pastures and cane
fields, to which he was taking his way,
and which had seemed so beautiful in
prospect when he had hoped to secure fair
Amy Herbert to reign over them as mistress,
appeared to afford him but dull
anticipation now.

How shall I ever get through the
work ? ' he thought, ' and my heavy heart
and sluggish spirit will lay me open to the
worst influences of the country. But I
will not despair. My wants and my weakness
are not unknown, and a way will be
found for me even out of this '* Slough of
Despond"'

He was suddenly roused from his lovesick
reverie by the sound of a low moaning,
which seemed to pervade the surrounding
atmosphere. Starting up on his couch,
Egerton now perceived through the porthole
that the sky had become dark, and
the noise of the captain of the vessel
shouting his orders through a speaking-trumpet,
and the sailors rushing about to
execute them, made him aware that something

was wrong. He was not the man
to keep out of the way of danger. Brave
as a Hon and intrepid as an eagle, Richard
Egerton, from a boy, had ever been the
foremost in any emergency or danger.
Now, as the warning sounds reached his
ear, he rushed at once on deck. He
remembered * Old Contrairy's ' prophecy of
a squall, and his first thoughts were for
the comfort and safety of Miss Herbert.
But as he issued from the passengers'
saloon a fearful sight awaited him. One
of those sudden hurricanes, for which the
West Indies are famous, and which will
sometimes swamp the stoutest vessel in
the course of a few seconds, had arisen,
and the whole ship's company was in confusion.
As Egerton sprang upon deck he
could distinctly see what appeared to bea
black wall of water advancing steadily to
meet the unfortunate ' Star of the North.'
With the exception of the noise consequent
on attempting to furl the sails in time to
receive the shock of the approaching storm,
there was but little tumult upon deck, for
everyone seemed paralysed with terror.

At the first alarm, Miss Herbert, with
the remainder of the passengers from the
poop, had attempted to go below, but,
having reached the quarter-deck, was

crouching at the foot of the companion-ladder,
too terrified by the violence of the
tornado to proceed further. As for Egerton,
he had to hold on fast to the bulwarks
to prevent himself being washed overboard.
His head was bare, and as he
stood there, with the wind blowing his
curls about in the wildest disorder, and his
handsome face knit with anxiety and pain,
Amy Herbert looked up and saw him, and
registered a vow, in the midst of her alarm,
that if they ever came safely out of that
fearful storm she would humble her pride
before him and confess that she had
been in the stone. The monitor of the
tempest increased to a stunning roar, and
then the huge wall of water broke upon the
Star of the North' with a violence to
which no thunder can bear comparison.

All hands were amidst, and the men
were dashed about the deck hither and
thither as the wind caught the vessel on
her broadside. The awful noise of the
hurricane rendered all communication by
speech impossible, but the captain, by setting
the example, stimulated his men to
cut away the masts in order to right the
ship, which had been thrown almost on
her beam-ends.

In a moment Egerton perceived the

danger to which Amy Herbert would be
exposed by the fall of the crashing timber.
She was crouching in the most exposed
part of the quarter-deck, her lovely eyes
raised upwards, full of the wildest fear.

There ! there ! Go there ! ' he exclaimed
frantically, though his voice had
no power to reach her, as he pointed to a
more sheltered position under the .
' Get under there, for
Heaven's sake ! '

She saw the warning gesture of his
hand, the agony depicted in his face, and
understood the meaning of them, just as
the huge mast bowed itself towards the
sea. Egerton continued his efforts to
make her see the necessity of moving, and
she was just about to take advantage of
the hint, when Captain Barrington crawled
on all fours into the place himself. The
little man was not too brave by nature,
and fear had driven all thoughts of chivalry
out of his head. For the moment the girl
did not see who had forestalled her intention
; she only perceived that she had
lost her chance of safety, and waited the
event in trembling anxiety. Down came
the topmast with a crashing shock that
threatened to sink the vessel. Yet Amy
Herbert was sheltered from possible injury,

for, with a mighty effort, Richard Egerton
had quitted his stronghold and flung his
body upon the deck before her. For one
moment he was conscious — happily conscious
— that she was safe, and he had
saved her ; the next, he had fainted from
a blow on the head and the pain of a large
splinter of wood that had been broken from
the falling mast and driven with violence
into his arm. He did not hear the scream
with which Amy Herbert viewed the
accident, nor see the agonised face which
bent above his prostrate form. He heard,
and saw, and knew nothing, until he
opened his eyes in his own cabin and
perceived, with the dazed wonder of returning
consciousness, that the old sailor,
Williams, and the ship's doctor, Mr French,
were bending over him.

You'll do now,' remarked the doctor ashe
held a cordial to his lips.

Is she safe ? ' was all Richard Egerton
said in reply, as he looked at his splintered
arm. They thought he meant the ' Star
of the North.'

Oh yes, she's safe enough now, sir
replied the old seaman ; ' but we've had an
awful time of it, and no mistake. We've
lost our top-gallant mast, and our spars

and hen-coops have been washed overboard,
and one of the boats got adrift in
the squall, and the poor *' Star " is stript of
half her toggery.'

But are any of the passengers injured ? '

No one but yourself, sir ; but two of
our best men went over with the mast, and
Ralph White has broke his leg, and there'll
be a tidy little bill for some one to pay
when we gets into port again.'

And that reminds me, Williams, that
I must go and look after poor White,' said
the doctor. ' I think I may leave my
patient in your care now. All you have
got to do is to see that he lies there till I
come back again.'

I'll look after the gentleman, doctor,
never you fear,' replied the old seaman as
Mr French left the cabin.

It was an awful hurricane, Williams,'
remarked Egerton, with a sigh of remembrance,
as he turned uneasily upon his
pillow.

You may well say that, sir ; and it's
just a miracle as we're still afloat.'

How little we thought, as we talked
together on deck an hour or two ago, that
death was so close at hand for some of us.'

Ay, indeed, and with that smiling,
burning, treacherous blue sky above us.

You have seen some of the dangers now,
sir. I suppose you ain't going, in the face
of this storm, to hold to Bill's song, that
Whatever is, is best." '

Yes, I am, Williams,' replied the young
man firmly.

What ! with our tight lite ship knocked
to pieces in this fashion, and your arm
broken in two places ? '

Just so, Williams. Heaven sent both
the storm and the accident. They must
be for the best.'

'Well, I'm blowed!' exclaimed the old
sailor in sheer amazement. The announcement
seemed to have taken all the wind
out of his sails, and he sat staring at the
wounded man as if he had charge of a
lunatic.

How comes it that you are attending
on me ? ' asked Egerton, as Williams
handed him a glass of water.

Well, sir, I seem to have took a fancy
to your way of talking ; so when they
wanted some one here to help the doctor
with your arm I offered to come, that's all'

It was very good of you. You told
me this morning that you had had troubles,
and prayer had never availed to get you
out them. Do you mind telling me what
those troubles are ? '

Not a bit, sir, if I shan't tire you ; but
it is a long story. I had a sweetheart
when I was a young chap — most young
chaps have, you know, sir — I daresay
you've had one yourself before now — and
I had a school-mate, too, by name —
well ! we'll call him Robert — and we both
loved the girl dearly ; but he got her, sir,
and I had to go to the wall.'

That was very unlucky for you.'

Well, it was unfortunate, though he
courted her above-board, and all was fair
enough at the time. But the worst of it
was that he turned out a regular bad 'un,
and ill-treated his wife shamefully after he'd
married her. When I came home from
sea, it used to make my blood regular boil
to hear poor Lottie tell how he'd beaten
and kicked and starved her, for he'd taken
to drink, you see, sir, and all his love had
gone like a flash of lightning.'

Was he a sailor too ? '

Yes, sir, and once, when I come off a
long voyage to China and Australia, and
round home by San Francisco, I heard
that Lottie was a wider and in great
distress, without hardly a bit of money.
Well, I looked her up pretty sharp, as you
may guess, and I found it was all true.'

And then you married her.'

VOL. I. o

No, I didn't sir. IVe never been
married. I don't deny I asked her, but
she wouldn't have me, nor no one. She
said it was too late, and she was dying',
which sure enough she was. But she had
a child, sir — little Dickey — such a dear
little chap, with blue eyes — just like her
own — and pretty seller curls ; and when
she died she left him on my hands, and
lor', how fond I was of that little creature !
He took his poor mammy's place in my
heart altogether.'

The old sailor stopped here, and drew
his hand across his eyes.

Did he die too, Williams ? ' inquired
Egerton.

Not as I knows of, sir. He may be
dead or living'. It's all the same to me
now. That was the time I used to pray,
Mr Egerton, night and day, that the little
feller I was so proud on might grow up a
good man and a good son to me and a
comfort to my old age, and when I lost
him I chucked up religion altogether.'

How did you lose him ? '

In the crudest of ways, sir. He had
glowed up beside me five years, and I had
done everything for him ; and when he'd
put his two little arms round my neck and
kiss me, and look so like his poor mother

who was the only sweetheart I ever had,
Mr Egerton — I used to thank the Lord,
with tears in my eyes, for His goodness tome.
But it was all a delusion, sir.'

Tell me the end of it.'

The end of it was that, when my pretty
Dickey was a smart little feller of about
ten years old, I got him a place as ship-boy
aboard the ' Lady Bird,' and we sailed
for the Brazils together, as proud and 'happy
as the days was long. And I was a teaching'
the boy everything, Mr Egerton, and he
was getting' that 'cute and handy — when, in
an evil moment, that man whom we all
thought dead and buried, turned up again
somewhere down by Rio Janeiro, and
claimed his boy of me.'

What ! the father ? '

Yes, sir. Of course he had the right
to do it, and that's what the skipper tried
to make me understand ; but it broke my
heart entirely. He thought he'd make
money out of the lad's wages, and so he
took him away from me, who was just like
a father to him ; and his screams, as we
parted, have never left my ears since. And
when I heard afterwards that the brute ill-treated
Dickey, just as he'd done his poor
mammy, I nearly went mad. The men
calls me sulky, and " Old Contrairy," and

such like names ; but many s the time when
they think me cross, I'm only dreaming
over that time again and cursing' them as
brought me to such a pitch. I shall never
see my pretty Dickey again, sir, till I meets
'im up above ; and I shall owe Robert
Hudson a grudge to the day of my death
for robbin' me of him in that there cruel
manner.'

Who did you say ? ' cried Egerton,
starting up in his berth.

Please to lie down, sir ? The doctor
will be after me if I lets you knock about
in that manner. The name slipped out
unawares, for 'taint of no use raking it up
again. It has nothing' to do with my story.'

But, pray, tell it me again '^. '

It was Robert Hudson, sir.'

But Robert Hudson was the name of
my father ! '

Yoitr father, sir ! But, begin' your
pardon, how can that be, when you're
called Egerton ? '

I know I am ; but I took the name
from a relation who left me his money on
condition that I did so. My real name is
Richard Hudson, and I was brought up to
the sea and adopted by my mother's cousin,
Henry Egerton, because my father treated
me so brutally. He was had up by the

police for thrashing me till I fainted, and
then the magistrates gave me over to the

guardianship of Mr Egerton ; and,

Williams, can it possibly be ? '

Sir, sir ! don't keep me in suspense.
What was the maiden name of your
mother ?'

Charlotte Erskine, and she was born
in Essex.'

At Pinfold ? '

That is the place. My grandfather
had the " Peartree Farm " there, and she
is buried in Kendal Green Cemetery. Mr
Egerton used often to take me to see her
grave.'

Oh, sir ! this is very, very wonderful !
Is it possible you can be my little Dickey?'

It is quite true that I am the son of
Robert and Charlotte Hudson, and that if
I had not changed my name, we should
have recognised each other before now.
Do not think I have forgotten you, Williams
} I cannot remember the face of my
sailor friend ; but I have never forgotten
all his kindness to me. But surely I used
to call you " Caleb " in those days, and
have always thought of you by that name
since.'

True, enough, sir, that's me — Caleb
Williams, and I can hear your sweet little

voice a-callin' Caleb from the top of the
house to the bottom now ; you was never
long out of my arms, Mr Egerton. Day
and night you was on this bosom, as you
may say, and my heart's been as empty asa
dried gourd since I lost sight of you.
And so you're my own boy — leastways,
what I used to call my own — and I've
been a nussin' you again as I used to nurse
you in the olden times. Oh, bless the Lord
for all His mercies ! ' cried the old seaman,
as he fairly broke down, and sobbed with
his face in his hands.

They. talked for a long time over the
'past ; Richard Egerton being scarcely less
affected than old Williams, as, one by one,
little incidents and reminiscences came to
light to confirm their several identities,
and make him see still more clearly how
much he owed to the old man who sat
beside him.

And now, Caleb,' he said, when the
evening shadows had deepened into dusk,
this will be your last voyage. I cannot
let you work any more. You know that I
have riches, and you must share them.'

Oh, sir, you are too good ! '

Don't call me " sir" again, please. Call
me Richard, Caleb, or " Dickey," or anything

that pleases your fancy ; but the man
who acted as a father to me when I had
worse than none, shall never address meas
though I were his superior. What was
it you prayed for me to become, Caleb, in
those days when I used to sit on your knee
with my little hands clasped about your
neck ? '

A good man and a good son, my dear,
dear boy,' quavered the old seaman.

Well, I will try, at all events, to fulfil
the last clause. My cousin Egerton, who
was a rich tradesman, has left me all his
property. I have land and houses in Barbadoes,
and I intend to settle there ; at
least, for the next few years. You must
come and live with me. You will find
plenty of work on the estate to employ
your time, if you wish to work ; and if you
wish to rest, you shall be idle. My father
has been dead in reality for many years
past, so that we shall be left alone and in
peace this time to end our days together.'

And there is no one else, my dear boy? '
inquired Williams anxiously.

How do you mean ?'

You are not married, nor likely to be ?'

I am not married, nor likely to be.
There is no one else,' repeated Richard
Egerton, with a bitter sigh.

Don't sigh like that, sir

Dickey, please, Caleb.'

Dickey, then — my little Dickey, as I
loved so hearty. To think I should have
found you again after all these years —
glowed to such a fine man, too — and in
that awful storm! It beats everything I
ever heard of.'

Whatever is, is best,' replied Egerton.

You won't grumble again, will you, Caleb,
because the answer to your prayer may be
delayed a little ? '

Don't mention it, my boy. I feels
ashamed even to remember it.'

You see that even the hurricane has
borne its good fruit as well as its evil.
Without it we might never have been made
known to each other.'

It's bin a merciful interposition of
Providence from beginning to end,'
said old Williams, wiping his eyes.

But I should like to see you a bit
more cheerful, Dickey. There has been
a sad look in your face the last four
days, which I couldn't help noticing', and
now that I knows you to be who you
are, I shan't rest satisfied till you smiles in
the old way again.'

Egerton was just about to answer him,
when a gentle knock sounded on the cabin

door, which stood ajar in consequence of
the heat.

Who's that ? ' demanded the old sailor
gruffly.

It is only I,' responded a soft, trembling
voice, which Egerton at once recognised as
that of Amy Herbert. ' I came to inquire
how Mr Egerton is getting^on, and if I can
do anything for him.'

No, miss, thank ye, you can't do
nothing' ; he's a-going' on very nicely, and
I'm here,' responded Williams.

May I speak to him for a minute ? '

Oh yes,' said Richard eagerly, raising
himself to a sitting position.

The young lady pushed open the cabin
door and stood on the threshold, blushing
like a rose. She looked very beautiful,
although her eyes were swollen with crying,
and her dress and hair were in
disorder.

I felt I could not sleep until I had
thanked you for what you did for me, Mr
Egerton,' she uttered tearfully. ' You endangered
your own life to save mine, who
have done nothing to deserve such a
sacrifice on your part.'

'Ay, that he did!' interrupted Williams.

It is nothing — nothing,' said Egerton

faintly, for the sight of her had upset all

his courage. * You could not help it. It
is not your fault if — if — '

'If — what?' demanded Amy Herbert.

He turned his eyes towards her, and a
new hope ran through his veins like a
reviving cordial. ' Caleb, my dear old
friend,' he exclaimed tenderly, ' leave me
for five minutes to myself.'

What ! all alone with the lady ? ' returned
Caleb, regarding Miss Herbert as
though she were a dangerous animal.

Yes, for one moment only. I have
something to say for her ear alone.

He had sprung off the berth in his
excitement, and was about to quit the
cabin.

Don't go out, then, my dear boy, for
mercy's sake,' said Williams, * for you've
lost a deal of blood, and are weaker than
you think for. Will you promise me ? '

I do promise, if you will only go.'
The old man shambled out of the cabin

as he spoke, and the two were left alone.

I want so much to tell you,' said
Egerton, speaking with some difficulty,
• what I had not the courage to say this
morning, that I know it is not your fault.
The blame rests entirely on me. It was
my presumption — my madness, if you will
that led me on to speak to you as I did,

and I acquit you of all blame. I know
you feel for my disappointment now — and
I thought it would make you easier to hear
this — that is all.'

Oh, if I could only make you understand
! ' she sobbed.

Pray don't distress yourself. I do understand
it all. How can you help it if
you find it impossible to love me ? '

But I do not — I mean, I can — that is
to say, I did not mean — ' stammered the
girl, colouring scarlet at the admission she
had been betrayed into making.

'Am I to understand that you did not
mean what you said this morning ? ' exclaimed
the young man as he grasped her
hand. ' Amy, you have given me fresh
life. Oh, do not take it back again ! Say
if you love me ! '

Her maidenly bashfulness struggled fora
moment with her probity, but the latter
conquered.

'Yes, I do love you! It was my
egregious vanity and love of conquest that
made me trifle with your feelings this
morning. I have been very miserable
ever since. I have hoped you would
speak to me again, and when I saw you
risk your life for my sake, I wished that I
might have died for you instead.'

O Amy, Amy ! Your words are opening
heaven to me. Darling, is it possible
that you will be my wife ? '

If you can forgive my heartless rejection
of you, Richard. If you can believe
that I am true in saying that I hated each
word even as I uttered it. If you still
think me worthy of being your life-companion,
I will give you a very different
answer now.'

You have made me the very happiest
man on earth,' he cried exultantly, as he
folded her in his arms.

Lor', sir ! — I mean my boy, Dickey —
you mustn't be a-going' on like this ! ' exclaimed
old Caleb, appearing on the scene
when least expected. ' The doctor's particular
orders was that you were to keep
quiet and not bounce about.'

Caleb, my dear friend, I will be as quiet
as your heart can wish now, for mine is at
rest. Don't stare so. Come here, and sit
down again, whilst I explain to this young
lady all that you have been to me, and tell
you all that I trust she will very soon be
to me.'

Oh, we're to have a missus after all,
then ! ' cried the old sailor meaningly.
Why, I thought you told me just now, my
boy, that you wasn't a-going' to be spliced ! '

Ah, Caleb, the storm has sent me a wife
as it brought you a son. Had it not been
for that awful hurricane, and the peril in
which it placed this precious life, I am not
quite sure if we should ever have been so
happy as we are this evening. Never
mind my wounded arm and the gash upon
my cheek ; Miss Herbert says she shall
like it all the better for a scar. The wound
in my heart is healed, Caleb, and life looks
very fair for us all henceforward. And yet
you could not believe " Old Contrairy," '
he added playfully, that 'Whatever is, is
best.'

THE END.

CAME down to breakfast one
morning last autumn, and found
a letter on the table from my
old friend Bessie Maclean.
Bessie and I were girls at school together,
and continued our intimacy after
we left, until we married and went to different
parts of the country. Marriage is
a terrible breaker up of old ties ; not only
by reason of the separation which generally
ensues, but because of the new duties it
entails. We had both married the men of
our hearts, however, and in comfortable
circumstances ; and so far all was well.
But little by little our correspondence,
which at first had been so voluminous and
detailed, became scanty and irregular.

Bessie had half - a - dozen children to
occupy her time and attention ; and I — I
had my dear husband to fill up the measure
of my life, and felt myself a wicked and
ungrateful woman if I even wished for
more.

But — there is always a ' but ' in the
happiest worldly existence, is there not ?
Dick and I had no children ; and the
disappointment had sometimes caused me
to shed bitter tears. In secret though ; I
had never told my husband one-half I felt
upon the subject.

Of course he twitted me with it sometimes
in a playful manner, which showed
that the fact did not sink very deep into
his heart, whatever it did in mine. Yet
I had thought occasionally that he looked
more thoughtful than usual when children
were in the room : and the idea made me
thoughtful too. Especially I had noticed
it when we paid our first visit to Bessie in
her new house ; for I must tell you that a
few months before my story commences,
Tom Maclean had bought a large farm in
the vicinity of the town where the gaol
stands, of which my husband is the governor.
Of course, after so long a separation,
Bessie and I were delighted to find we had
become near neighbours again ; and as

soon as ever the Maclean were settled,
they invited us both over to Poplar Farm,
to stand sponsors to the latest arrival — a
little boy whom they called Richard, after
my Dick, God bless him ! Poplar Farm
was ten or twelve miles from Chesterwick,
however, so I had not seen my friends
more than five or six times since the
christening day ; and the visits I had paid
them had not quite realised the expectations
I had formed of meeting Bessie
again.

I suppose it was my vile envious nature,
or perhaps the quiet life I have led with
Dick has made me selfish ; but it seemed
to me as though all the time my old schoolfellow
spent with me was devoted, not to
our friendship, or reminiscences of our
girlish days, but to talking about her
children and telling me of their accomplishments
or complaints, or consulting me as
to their dresses or amusements. Of course
I was pleased at first to be introduced to
her fine brood of boys and girls ; but I
could hardly be expected to feel as much
interest in them as their mother did, and I
was sorely disappointed to find she had
lost so much of hers in me. She did not
seem to care to hear anything about my
husband, or how we loved each other in

VOL. I. P

our happy, peaceful home ; nor did she
even talk much about Tom, with her affection
for whom I could have sympathised
better than with any other. But he appeared
to be almost forgotten or overlooked
in her maternal care for the little ones ;
and she was more anxious that Lily's new
hat should become her, or Charley's medicine
be swallowed without a fit of obstinacy,
than that Mr Maclean should appreciate
his dinner, or have his evening hours undisturbed
for settling his accounts. I have
observed the same thing — oh ! scores of
times — amongst my married female acquaintances
; and the fact has done more
to reconcile me to the want of a family than
any other.

Not that I believe that the charge of a
hundred children could ever make me forget
my darling's wants — but there, this is
not a love story, so I must try and keep
my Dick's name out of it as much as
possible.

I had received several letters from Bessie
during the last month, which had rather
surprised me, as she had grown very lazy
at correspondence, as I have said before,
and naturally, taking up her residence at
Poplar Farm had not made her write
oftener, excepting when she required the

benefit of my experience with regard to
the advantages of her new home. Her two
last letters, however, had been written in a
very unaccountable strain ; and if I had not
known she was comfortably and happily
situated, I should have imagined it was
just the reverse.

'Another letter from Bessie!' I exclaimed,
as I broke the seal. ' What on
earth can she want now ? I suppose sh:
has found out somebody sells whiter flour
than Watkins, or better tea than Amyott ?
I almost believe, Dick, she regrets having
left Lincolnshire.'

I don't know why she should,' replied
Dick, as he commenced a raid upon the
breakfast-table ; ' for, according to Maclean's
account, they lived in a perfect
swamp there. But why can't the woman
look after her own flour and tea ? Why is
she to worry you about everything in this
fashion ? '

Oh ! I suppose she thinks, as I have
no children, I cannot possibly have anything
to do,' I said, laughing ; ' for I heard
her remark, with regard to Mrs Anderson,
who is in the same plight as myself, that ir
must be quite a charity to give her any
employment ! '

Like her impudence,' growled Dick (I

don't think Bessie Is a favourite with my
husband ; perhaps I talked too much about
her beforehand), — ' I should let her 
the contrary if I were you, Dolly. I
believe, with all her fuss and bustle, that
you do twice her work in half the time

Ah ! I have only one baby to look after,
you see, though he's a big one,' I said, as
I gave his head a squeeze with my disengaged
hand ; ' but goodness me, Dick, this
letter is worse than the last even. Bessie
seems really in low spirits now. She
says that Mr Maclean's business will take
him away from home for a few nights next
week, and she wants me to go over and
spend them with her in — yes, she actually
calls Poplar Farm — 'this gloomy ramshackle
old place.'

It's old enough,' said Dick, * and all
the better for it ; but it's not " ramshackle."
Better walls and roof were never built
than those of Poplar Farm. It stands as
steady as the gaol.'

But about my going to her, Dick — can
you spare me ? '

Can I spare you ! ' repeated my husband
in that tone of voice that, after ten
years' marriage, has still the power to
make my heart beat faster. ' Of course I
can ! I could spare you for good and all,

If someone would only be obliging enough
to take you off my hands ; but there's no
such luck in store for me. Only mind the
days don't stretch themselves Into weeks,
sweetheart ! '

'Into weeks!' I replied, indignantly.
Have I ever stayed weeks away from
you yet, Dick ? I'm not even sure that I
shall go at all'

Yes ! you'd better go, Dolly ; Bessie
Maclean is selfish and egotistical, and
somewhat of a fool ; but I daresay she's
nervous at the Idea of remaining in that
Isolated home by herself, particularly as it
is all so strange to her. And you don't
know what fear is, old woman ! '

I wish she could overhear the character
you give her,' I answered, laughingly.
But Dick was right. I am not a nervous
woman, and If I had been, he would have
cured me of It long before. Living In a
gaol, and having, of my own free will,
constant access to the prisoners, had
effectually dispersed any ladylike unreasonable
fears I may once have thought
womanly and becoming, and made me
ashamed of starting at shadows. So, having
sent an affirmative answer to my
friend's appeal, I set out for Poplar Farm,
when the time came, with as much confidence

In my powers of protection as
though I had been of the sterner sex.

Dick drove me over In the curricle.

It was a bright November morning:
one of those days when the air is crisp
and exhilarating without being in the least
degree cold ; a day on which one feels
younger, and more hopeful and capable of
food — on which one's sorrows seem too
paltry for consideration, and one's happiness
far more than one deserves. I experienced
this sensation In the fullest
sense, as I crept as close as I could to
my husband's side, and smuggled one hand
beneath his arm.

Holloa ! ' cried Dick ; ' why, what's
this ? Repenting of your promise already,
eh ? Oh ! you spoony woman, I'm
ashamed of you ! '

I was repenting It, but I did not tell
him so. It is good for people who love
very much to part sometimes, if only to
teach them how great a blessing they
possess in each other's affection.

As we drove up the long-neglected
drive of Poplar Farm, I could not help
thinking that Bessie was right in considering
It gloomy. The sun had disappeared
again behind an autumn cloud.
The trees had shed most of their leaves,

which lay in sodden heaps along the paths,
and a chilly wind had commenced to blow.
I drew my cloak closer against my shoulders,
and told Dick what I thought.

'Nonsense, Dolly!' he replied. 'The
place is well enough ; and when Maclean
has had time to put it in order, will be
one of the prettiest farms in the county.
I only wish I had the money to buy such
another. But naturally it does not look
its best when the trees are bare.'

Stop ! ' I cried, suddenly ; ' there's the
baby. Let me get down and kiss him.
That must be the new nurse carrying him,
Dick. But what a lugubrious looking
young person she is ! '

My husband had good-naturedly drawn
up by this time, and I had scrambled
down to meet my little godson, who was
about three months old. But as soon as
I had pulled aside the veil that covered
his face, I started with surprise.

Oh ! how he has gone off ! ' I exclaimed.

The baby, who had been so fat and
dimpled and red-faced last time I saw him,
was now drawn and white and thin. The
change was apparent so that even Dick
could see it from the box-seat.

Whew ! ' he whistled ; ' why, what's the
matter with the little chap — is he ill .'* '

'Oh no! he's not 111. He is perfectly well.
You don't think he looks ill, madam ? ' said
the girl who was carrying him, anxiously.

I don't think I ever saw a child so
changed in my life,' I answered, in my
blunt fashion. ' Are you the wet-nurse
Mrs Maclean told me she had engaged
for him ? '

Yes, madam,' she said, in a very low
voice.

I raised my e.^^s, and examined her
then for the first time thoroughly ; and I
could not help observing what a 
girl she was. She had the
very palest and clearest of complexions —
so colourless that it looked like the finest
white wax, and her skin was of the texture
of satin. Her large, clear, grey eyes,
which shone with a limpid light, like
agates with water running over them, had
a startled look, which might almost have
been mistaken for fear, and her delicately
cut mouth drooped in the most pathetic
manner. To add to the mournfulness of
her appearance, her hair was almost completely
hidden beneath her cap, and her
dress was the deepest widow's mourning.
I made a few indifferent remarks about
the child, kissed it, and jumped up to my
seat again. The nurse was not the person

I felt to whom to speak on the subject
of the baby's appearance. She made a
deep reverence as the carriage moved off,
and .1 saw she was a very superior sort of
young woman ; but of what account was
that, where little Dick's health, and perhaps
his life, was concerned ?

Bessie's a greater fool than I took her
for,' I exclaimed, indignantly, as we drove
on towards the house.

'What's in the window ?' said Dick.

Fancy, choosing a wet-nurse for a
baby all crape and bombazine and tears.
Why, that girl looks as if she cried night
and day. 1 knew Bessie had been weak
enough to be persuaded by the doctor to
give up nursing baby herself, but she
might have exercised a little discretion in
the choice of a substitute. The child is
half the size he was last month.'

What a lot we know about babies ! '
said Dick, in his chaffing way.

I should hope I know more than half
the mothers I meet,' I continued, with
some warmth. * I should be ashamed to
be as ignorant as Bessie herself, for instance,
though she has had six children,'
I added, with a little droop in my voice.

My own Dolly ! ' said Dick, fondly ;
and when he says those words in that

voice, I don't care for anything else in all
the wide, wide world. He wouldn't stay
even to dismount from his box, for we
knew Mr Maclean had already left the
house, and he thought our chatter would
get on better without him, added to which
he had duties demanding him at home.
So I gave him one long, long kiss, and
let him go ; and as soon as he was out
of sight, turned into the door of Poplar
Farm.

Bessie was in the dining-room, where
the dinner was already spread, surrounded
by her batch of self-willed unruly children.
As she came forward to meet me, I saw
that she looked tired and worn out, and
that her dress was untidy and neglected.

It is so good of you to come, Dolly,'
was her greeting, * for I am so worried I
don't know what I should have done without
you.'

I am very glad to be of use, Bessie ;
but what worries you — the baby ? '

Dear me ! no. It is something quite
different. Why should baby worry me }
He has his wet-nurse, and she takes him
completely off my hands.'

He is so pulled down,' I said unhesitatingly,
for I took an interest in my little
godson. ' I met him just now in the drive,

and hardly recognised the child. Are you
satisfied his nurse does him justice ? '

Oh, perfectly so. She is a most estimable
young woman, so quiet and ladylike
ia her way of speaking. Did you notice
her eyes ? such a remarkable colour ; and
her hands are as white as yours or mine.'

But the baby does not appear to be
thriving. He can't inherit her eyes or her
hands, you know, and if he could, I don't
see that they would be much use to him.
What's her name ? Where did you find
her ? '

She's a Mrs Graham ; and she was
recommended to me from the Lvinor-in
Hospital at Chesterwick. I'm sorry you
don't think baby looks well. Perhaps the
change has pulled him down a little, though
I really can't see it myself.'

I daresay she did not. Bessie is that
sort of woman that never will see anything
until it has actually occurred. If her
children died, she would make as great a
fuss over them — perhaps more — than mothers
who have guarded theirs from their
infancy upwards ; yet she will let them eat
improper food, and get damp feet, and
remain out in the burning sun without any
covering to their heads ; and if you remonstrate
with her, her invariable excuse is,

that they have always done so before and
got no harm. As if the fact of a wrong
being permitted should make it a right ;
or because we have fallen from the top of
a house once without injury, we may cast
ourselves thence headlong each day without
impunity.

I really never did think, when Bessie
and I were girls together, that she would
turn out such a ninny.

• What has worried you then, since it is
not the baby ? ' I demanded presently.

Hush ! I can't tell you before the
children. It's an awful business, and I
wouldn't have them hear of it for worlds.
Will you lay your bonnet aside, and have
dinner with us as you are ? or I'm afraid it
may get cold. Lily — Charley — Tommy,
lay down these toys, and come to the table
at once. Put Bessie up on her high chair ;
and somebody go and call Annie. Ah !
Dolly, my dear, how well you have kept
your figure ! What would I not give to
be as slim and neat as you are.'

And although, of course, I would not
compare one advantage with the other,
yet I must say that the pleasures of having
a family would possess a great drawback tome,
if I were compelled at the same time
to become as rotund and untidy in appearance

as poor Bessie is at present. And I
believe the chief thing Tom Maclean fell
in love with was her pretty rounded little
figure. Alas ! alas !

But I am keeping the early dinner waiting.
As soon as it was despatched, with
the usual accompaniments of cutting up
the children's meat, wiping their mouths,
and preventing their throwing the tumblers
at each other's heads, Mrs Maclean rose
and offered to show me to my bedroom.
It was next to her own, and communicated
with it by a door.

This dear old place !' I exclaimed as I
entered it ; ' you are making it very pretty,
Bessie. Aren't you glad that you have
come into such a handsome property, instead
of having been stuck down in a modern
villa, with the plaster on the walls
only half-dry ? '

But Bessie did not appear to appreciate
my congratulations.

Dolly,' she said, as she sunk down into
a chair, ' I would change Poplar Farm for
the poorest little villa that was ever built.'

My dear girl, what do you mean ? '

Mean / That the house is haunted,
Dolly—'

I confess it ; I could not help it : I burst
into the loudest and rudest laugh imaginable.

Poplar Farm haunted ! What an absurdly
unreasonable idea ! Why, the last
tenants had only just moved out in time
to let the Maclean come in, and the house
had been freshly papered and painted from
basement to attic. There was not a nook
nor a corner for a ghost to hide in.

I could not help laughing ; and what is
worse, I could not stop laughing, until my
friend was offended.

You may laugh as much as you like,'
she said at last ; ' but I have told you
nothing but the truth. Do you mean to
say that you consider such a thing impossible
? '

No ! I won't go as far as that ; but I
think it is very uncommon, and very unlikely
to occur to — to — to — '

Here I was obliged to halt, for the only
words I could think of were, ' to anyone so
material as yourself ; ' and I couldn't quite
say that. For though I do not deny the
possibility of apparitions, I believe that the
person who is capable of perceiving them
must be composed of more mind than
matter, and there is nothing spiritual nor
aesthetic about poor Bessie.

What is the ghost like, and who has
seen it?' I demanded, as soon as I could
command my countenance.

'Several of the servants and myself,'
replied Bessie ; ' and Tom might have seen
it, too, if he were not so lazy. But one
night when the noises were close to our
door, he refused to rouse himself even to
listen to them, and told me to go — Well,
dear, I really can't repeat what he said ;
but husbands do not always use the politest
language when out of temper, you know ! '

Noises ! Then the ghost has been
heard as well as seen ? '

Oh yes ! and such mournful noises,
too. Such weeping and wailing, enough
to break one's heart. The first time I
saw it, Dolly, I thought I should have
died of fright.'

Tell me all about it.'

I had been sitting up late one Saturday
night mending the children's socks for
Sunday, and Tom had been in bed for a
good two hours. Everybody was in bed
but myself, and I thought, as I carried my
single candle up the dark staircase, how
silent and ghastly everything appeared.
As I turned into the corridor, I heard a
gasping sound like a stifled sob. At first
I could hardly believe my ears ; but when
it was repeated, my heart seemed to standstill.
I was hesitating whether to go back
or forward, and trembling in every limb,

when IT — this dreadful thing — crossed
me. It sprung up, I don't know from
where, in the darkness, and just looked at
me once and rushed away. I nearly sunk
to the ground, as you may well imagine.
I had only just time to get inside my own
door, when I tumbled right across the bed,
and Tom had to get up and pick up the
candlestick, and help undress me ; and
really, by the way he went on about it,
you'd have thought it was all my fault.'

What was it like ? that is the main
thing, Bessie.'

My dear, you don't suppose I looked
at it more than I was absolutely obliged,
I know IT was dressed all in white, with
snow-white hair hanging over its face, and
fearful staring eyes. It's a perfect wonder
to me I stand alive here now.'

And it has been seen since then ? '
Oh, several times, and we hear it every
night as regularly as possible about two
o'clock in the morning. The cook has
seen it — so has the housemaid ; and not a
servant amongst them would fetch a glass
of water from downstairs after ten o'clock,
if we were all dying for want of it.'

A pleasant state of affairs,' I ejaculated ;
and will you take no steps to investigate
the mystery, and dissolve the household
fears ? '

What steps could I take ? '

Sit up for the apparition, and speak toit
; and if it won't answer, take hold of it
and see if it is flesh and blood or air

My dear Dolly, I would rather die.'

Well, I hope you'll wake me up when
the sounds begin to-night,' I answered,
for I am curious to hear them.'

But I didn't tell Bessie that I would bethe
one to 'bell the cat;' for, though I
have little fear, I have no foolhardiness ;
and if her ghost turned out to be a real
one, I had no wish to interfere with it.

In the evening, as much with a view of
pointing out the baby's condition to Bessie
as for any other reason, I asked her to
accompany me to the nursery, and see him
put to bed. I found that he slept in a
room alone with his wet-nurse, who was
enorao^ed in bathing the little creature as
we entered. Mrs Graham looked very
pretty and delicate as she bent over the
bath, attending to the child ; but I observed
that she never once smiled at nor played
with him, as nurses usually do with infants
during the process of washing. Little
Dick was certainly very attenuated and
languid, and even his mother seemed to
observe it when pointed out to her. Mrs
Graham listened to our conversation with
VOL. I. o

rather an anxious expression on hei countenance,
and I thought by drawing her out
we might gain some clue to the baby's ill
health.

Is your own child strong and vigorous ?'
I asked her.

My own child is dead, madam,' she
replied.

It was your first, I presume ? You
appear very young.'

It was my first. I was twenty last
birthday.'

She seemed unwilling to be more communicative,
and I did not like to enter
directly on the subject of her husband's
death. Poor child ! she might have loved
him as I did Dick. So, as Bessie had
sauntered into the general nursery and left
us alone together, I ventured to sound heron
another matter, which I thought might
be having a secret effect upon her.

Have you seen anything of this apparition
the servants speak of, Mrs Graham ?'

No, madam,' she replied, quietly.

It is very foolish of people to be frightened
of they really don't know what ; but
no one seems to have been brave enough
to try and find out the reason of the mysterious
noises heard at nicrht here. You
have heard them, perhaps ? '

No, madam she said again, without
further comment.

Would it alarm you to see or hear it ? ' I
had forced her nowt say something in reply.

I think not,' she answered, ' I think if
spirits can come back from the dead, they
must do so only in sympathy with those
they have left behind ; and, if that is possible,
and I thought this one came for me,
I should only be too thankful to have a
glimpse of its face, or to hear the sound of
its voice. I think those people who have
so much fear of spirits can never have
known what it is to lose any one they
would lay down their lives to follow wherever
it micrht lead them.'

< >

She spoke in a low, mournful cadence
that touched my heart. Poor girl ! she
was thinking of her husband and her own
desolate condition. I felt for and sympathised
with her, and before I left the nursery
I took her thin hand and pressed it. She
looked surprised, but I had only to say,
I love my own husband as my life to seethe
tears run into her eyes, and to know
she understood me. Still she was by no
means a proper person to perform the part
of a mother towards little Dick, and I resolved
before I left Poplar Farm to try and
persuade Bessie to change her.

The rest of the day passed rather monotonously.
I worked at one of Dick's
shirts, and wondered how I ever could
have thought Bessie such a charming companion,
whilst she alternatively indulged
and scolded her very unpleasant young
family. At last they were all despatched
to bed, and as soon as decency would permit,
I yawned and said I should like to
follow their example. So we were all
packed away by ten o'clock, my last act
having been to pay a visit to Mrs Graham's
room, where I had left her fast asleep with
my little godson tucked in snugly on her
arm. Bessie lay awake for some time
talking of the celebrated ghost, but I was
too sleepy to be a good listener, and am
afraid I dropped off in the midst of her
recital. When I waked again, it was by
dint of feeling her shake my arm.

Dolly ! Dolly !' she was exclaiming, ina
low, hurried voice. ' Listen ! there is the
sound, and close against the door.'

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND bUN, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

Important NEW Woe bj the Author of
Recommended to Mercy."

In 2 vols. J Crown 8vo, 18s.

Early in June will be published a New Work by

MES. HOTJSTOUN,
Author of "Barbara's Warning'*

Entitled

MEMORIES OF
WORLD - KNOWN MEN,

Containing Personal Recollections of

WORDSWORTH, JOHN WILSON CEOKEE,
Theodore HOOK, WILLIAM IV., the late
Lord Derby, MES. Norton, Harrison
AINSWOETH, and other well-known personages.

P. V. WHITE & CO.,
31, SOUTHAMPTON Street, Stand, W.C.

F. V. WHITE & Co's SELECT NOVELS.

Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s, 6d. each.

The Following Volumes of the Series are Now Ready,

And can be obtained of all Booksellers in Town and Country, and at
all Railway Bookstalls.

Those marked thus (*) can also be had in Picture Boards, 2s.

THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL. By Florence

Marat, Author of "Love's Conflict," " Phyllida,"
A Broken Blossom," &c., &c., &c.

' The Root of all Evil' is quite up to Miss Marat's reputation, and
can be honestly recommended to those who enjoy a good strong story,
capitally ^\Titten, in this clever writer's best style." — Morning Post.

Atherton TOWERS. By Annie Thomas (amis.
Pender Cudlip), Author of " Denis Donne," " Friends
and Lovers," &g.

*THE Dean's WIFE. By Mrs. Eiloart, Author
of " My Lady Clare," " How He Won Her," " Some
of our Girls," &c., &c., &c.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do
better than read * The Dean's Wife.' " — John Bull.

* The Dean's Wife' must be classed as a decidedly good novel."

Graphic.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

*MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence

Marat, Author of " A Broken Blossom," " Phyllis,"
"How They Loved Him," &c., &c.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

' My Sister the Actress' is the best novel we have had the pleasure
of reading from the pen of Miss Florence Marryat." — John Bull.

The three volumes will be read through with avidity."

Court Journal.

' My Sister the Actress' is infinitely above the average run of novels.
A skilfully told and remarkably interesting story which will add
to Miss Marryat's reputation." — Court Circular.

The tone of the book is distinctly wholesome." — Scotsman.

"• It is both clever and amusing." — Daily News.

Everywhere it is fresh, lively, and thoughtful"' — Public Opinion.

The characters are drawn with great power. . . . The story is one
of unusual interest and ought to secure a great number of readers."

Sunday Times.

We can fully recommend the book to our readers as being thoroughly
interesting and cleverly written." — Sylvia's Some Journal.

"It is a very pretty story and told in the Author's happiest
manner." — Morning Post.

We have been agreeably surprised, and have no hesitation in placing
this latest work far beyond her previous novels." — Lloyd's.

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marry at,
Author of "Phyllida," "Facing the Footlights,"
&c., &c., &c.

Deserves to be ranked as the most artistic and altogether the best
work of fiction its clever and prolific author has yet written."

Scotsman.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour,
pleasant to read, and pleasant to remember." — John Bull.

' A Broken Blossom' is a pleasantly told tale, and will doubtless
find acceptance with many." — Morning Post.

*S\yEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady constance
Howard, Author of " Mollie Darling,"
&c., &c.

The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour. . . . There is, indeed, throughout the whole of the
story a most unusual power, net only of language but of imagination,
and the tender pathos, which is introduced iu no laboured fashion,
adds a charm which it is diflBcnlt to describe, bat impossible for the
reader not to appreciate." — Whitehall Review.

"There is a genuine flavour of the old-fashioned romance in it which
is too frequently lacking in what may be termed the latter-day novel."

Court Circular.

' Sweetheart and Wife' is a love idyll, skilfully painted in the
midst oi many people and many scenes, described by one who writes
with that very rare attribute of the modern novelist — knowledge of,
and familiarity with, the society she pictures." — Life.

So many pretentious people write stupidly' and ignorantly of
fashionable life that it is a real pleasure to come across a novel by one who
is thoroughly familiar with Society and all its little vanities. From
this point of view ' Sweetheart and Wife' is a book w which is likely to
be in great demand at the circulating libraries for some time to come.
It is a love story, told with charming simplicity and not a little power.
Many of the descriptions are full of picturesque beauty, the dialogue is
strikingly natural, and the plot is consistently and cleverly developed."

Society.

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

*TWO MEN AISTD A MAID. By Harriettt Jay,
Author of "The Queen of Connaught," "Made
Unravel," "The Priest's Blessing," &c., &c., &c.

Compared with the former works of the authoress of ' The Queen
of Connaught' this novel must be pronounced second to none."

Graphic.

The gradual building up of the incidents preceding the wedding
and the dim foreshadowing of catastrophe are managed with such skill
as to produce the greatest excitement of expectation." — Sunday Times.

Abounding in pathetic incidents and strongly dramatic situations."

North British Daily Mail,

Phyllis. By Florence Marat, Author of
My Sister the Actress," " A Broken Blossom,"
&c., &c., &c.

This is one of the most fascinating and interesting novels we have
met with for a long time." — Sunday Times.

This is the best of Miss Marryat's works ; the plot is original and
fantastic, full of spirit and vitality. * Phyllida' is decidedly one of the
best novels of the season." — Court Journal.

' Phyllida' is a novel of which the author may justly be proud."

Morning Post.

It is brightly written and thoroughly readable." — Lloyd's.
' Phyllida' has all the advantage which a very striking and dramatic
opening can give it. — John Bull.

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

BARBARA'S Warning. By Mrs. Houston,

Author of " Recommended to Mercy," " Lost in the
Crowd," &c., &c.

SOME OF OUR GIRLS. By Mrs. Eiloart,
Author of " The Dean's Wife," " How He Won Her,"

&c., &c., &c.

*' . . . The book is well worth perusing." — John Bull.

*' * Some of Our Girls' must be commended as a book with an
unusually good purpose, and as quite interesting enough to deserve the
attention of the others of ' our girls' to whom it appeals." — Globe.

"The freshness, the purity, the simplicity of style, the truth and the
directness of purpose which always characterise Mrs. Eiloart's novels
make them very enjoyable reading; and in all these points * Some of
Our Girls' is fully up to the level of its predecessors . . . and few who
take up the book will lay it down without feeling that the author has
contributed to their intellectual enjoyment'* — Scotsman,

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY. By Mrs. Alexander
Feasee, Author of "Guardian and Lover," &c.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

THE PRIEST'S BLESSING. By Harriettt Jay,
Author of " Two Men and a Maid," ** The Queen of
Connaught," &c.
(Dedicated to the Right Hon. W. E. Foresee, M.P.)

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

Told with much pathos and power." — Era.

We can say for ourselves that we have read its three hundred pages
with unfailing interest"— Saturdays Review.

It is an interesting story, and thoroughly well worth the perusal
of all who have the welfare at Ireland and the Irish honestly at heart."

Sunday Times.

"Intimate knowledge of the national character is shown by the
writer, who inscribes her book to Mr. Forster in earnest and somewhat
impulsive language." — Daily Telegraph.

Miss Harriettt Jay is already so well known to the public as a perfect
mistress of style, that we need bestow no greater praise upon the little
volume before us than by saying that in this respect it fully justifies the
reputation acquired by the author of 'The Queen of Connaught.'
Is well and boldly written." — Court Journal.

"Miss Jay paints with graphic power the scenes of the story, and
some of her descriptions of events and incidents are most vigorous and
refreshing in their terse eloquence." — Nonconformist.

Any one who wishes to realise the mischief which may be done by
the ceaseless plotting of the Catholic priests cannot do better than read
The Priest's Blessing.' " — Lloyd's.

"The novel is certain to attract exceptional attention." — GrapMc.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR 2s. NOVELS.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marry
at, Author of " Mv Sister the Actress," " Phyllida,"
&c., &c. In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s.* 4d.

Deserves to be ranked as the most artistic and altogether the best
work of fiction its clever and prolific author has yet written."

Scotsman.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour,
pleasant to read, and pleasant to remember." — John Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs. Eiloart, Author
of " How He Won Her," " Some of Our Girls,"
My Lady Clare," &c., &c. In picture boards, 2s. ;
post free, 2s. 4d.

"Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do
better than read ' The Dean's Wife.' "john Bull.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. Bv Florence

Marat, Author of " Phyllida," "How They Loved

Him," &c., &c. In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

Will be read through with avidity." — Court Journal.

"'My Sister the Actress' is infinitely above the average run of novels.

A skilfully told and remarkably interesting story which will add

to Miss Marryat's reputation." — Court Circular.

The tone of the book is distinctly wholesome." — Scotsman.
** It is both clever and amusing." — Daily News,

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay,

Author of *' The Queen of Connaught," " My Connaught
Cousins," &c. In picture boards, 2s. ; post
free, 2s. 4d.

*' Compared with the former works of the authoress of * The Queen
of Connaught' this novel must be pronounced second to none."

Graphic.

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR 2s. NOVELS.

AN INNOCENT SINNER. By Mabel Collins,

Author of " Too Need a Dawn," " In the Flower of

Her Youth," &c. In picture boards, 2s. ; post free,

2s. 4d.

Miss Collins, who writes with correctness and vigour, has chosen
in 'An Innocent Sinner' to rely for interest on an entirely new combination
of circumstances. This . is elaborated with some skill."

Athenaeum.

"Thinkers, who are not too wise in their own conceit, will give the
book a much higher place in their esteem than is usually accorded to
a work of fiction. . . . The book is one that ought to be both read and
studied." — Whitehall Review.

"Decidedly remarkable, and very well worth reading." — Morning
Post.

Of peculiar originality and power . . . For her freedom from extravagance
in dealing with a topic which makes extravagance an
almost irresistible temptation, Miss Collins must be especially commended."
— Globe.

Must certainly be acquitted of any tendency to the conventional
or commonplace — the besetting sin of the novelists of the day. . . .
The situation is, no doubt, a delicate one, but we do not think the
author's treatment of it can be fairly objected to on the score of propriety
or good taste." — Graphic.

'' There are both prettiness and ingenuity in the novel which
Miss Mabel Collins, the clever daughter of a gifted father, has
written — 'An Innocent Sinner.* There is a grace and a power, as well
as a strangeness, about the book which will secure for it many
readers." — World.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR 2s. NOVELS.

HOW HE WON HER. By Mrs. Eiloart, Author
of " The Dean's Wife," " My Lady Clare," " Some of
Our Girls," &c., &c.

In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

A FATAL PASSION. By Mrs. Alexander
Fraser, Author of "A Professional Beauty,"
Guardian and Lover," (fee, &c.

In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

SINK OP SAYIM. By Mrs. Houston, Author of
Recommended to Mercy," " Lost in the Crowd," <fec.
In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

Eye OF London. By Axxie Thomas

(Mrs. Pender Cudlip), Author of " Friends and
Lovers," " Atherton Towers," &c., <fec.

In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

GUARDIAN AND LOVER. By Mrs. Alexander
Fraser, Author of " A Peeress of 1882," *' A Professional
Beauty," <fec., &c.

In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR 2s. NOVELS.

THREE FAIR DAUGHTERS. By Laurence

Brooke, Author of " The Queen of Two Worlds," &c.
In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

This is a novel which shows real literary skill and no small
acquaintance with his craft in its author." — Spectator.

Mr. Brooke has told well what he had to tell, and has produced
three readable volumes, natural, entertaining, and fairly artistic. . . .
Three Fair Daughters' is a pretty and a prettily-written tale."

AthencBttm.

A vein of pleasant humour and lively fancy runs through this story
from beginning to end." — Queen.

Laurence Brooke is a brilliant writer." — Court Journal.

There is not a dull page in the whole three volumes." — Scotsman.

In furnishing light, pleasant reading and drawing lively pictures
of modern society, Mr. Brooke has few rivals." — Morning Post.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard, Author of " Mollie Darling," &c.
In picture boards, 2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour. . . . There is, indeed, throughout the whole of the
story a most unusual power, not only of language but of imagination,
and the tender pathos, which is introduced in no laboured fashion,
adds a charm which it is difficult to describe, but impossible for the
reader not to appreciate." — Whitehall Eevieic.

There is a genuine flavour of the old-fashioned romance in it which
is too frequently lacking in what may be termed the latter-day novel."

Court Circular.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL THE
LIBRARIES.

ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN. By Lady Constance
Howard, Author of " Sweetheart and
Wife," " Mollie Darling," &c. 2 vols.

POPPY. By Mrs. Beresford (Flora Halter),
Author of "All Among the Barley," &c. 3 vols.

A MOMENT OF MADNESS. By Florence
Marryat, Author of "The Root of all Evil,"
Pallida," " A Broken Blossom," " My Sister the
Actress," " Facing the Footlights," &c., &c. 3 vols.

LOVE AND ITS COUNTERFEIT. By Alice
Bernard. 3 vols.

VICTOR OR VICTIM? By John Saunders,
Author of "Abel Drake's Wife," <S:c. 1 vol.

WAS IT WORTH THE COST ? By Mrs. Eiloart,
Author of " My Lady Clare," " The Dean's Wife,"
&c. 3 vols.

F. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL THE
LIBRARIES.

MONCRIEFFE's SECOND WIFE, By Lolo,

Author of "A Cruel Secret," "Was Hers the
Fault?" &c. 3 vols.

. There are many who will he delighted with * Moncrieffe's
Second Wife.' " — Public Opinion.

MISS STANDISH. By Miss A. Bewick, Author
of " Onwards, but Whither ?" &c. 3 vols.

AN April DAY. By Philippa Prithee Jephson,

Author of " Lord Harleigh," &c. 2 vols.

. This graceful story." — Athenaeum.

The story in itself is very real, full of true pathos, and not devoid
of power. . It is graceful and charming from first to last,"

Morning Post.
. It is altogether a pleasant story, pleasantly told, and worth
spending an idle half-hour over." — Whitehall Review.

. It is charmingly and freshly told, the language is easy and
refined . . . there is a natural and pictorial grace about the book."

St. Stephen's Review.
. The book is never dull. . . . The tone of the story is wholesome,
unaffected, and pleasant throughout*' — John Bull.

. This novel will be found attractive, and full of romance."

Public Opinion.

FRANK AYRTON. By Mrs. J. M. M. Hewett.

1 vol.

p. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL THE
LIBRARIES.

IN THE FLOWER OF HER YOUTH. By
Mabel Collins, Author of " Too Need a Dawn,"
An Innocent Sinner," &c. 3 vols.

Miss Collins's ably-written story is likely to be well received."

Ath€nceu7n.

Miss Collins is acquiring more strength and facility as she continues
in authorship. The tale before us has some wel-conceived situations."
— Academy.

Miss Collins has evidently thrown her whole heart into her work,
for many passages are full of eloquence aud fire. The pathetic scenes
are composed with a power of detail that in many cases will thrill the
reader. Engrossing as are the first and second volumes, the third far

excels either Miss Collins is the author of several stories of

fiction, for which she has obtained the food opinion of her admirers,
but * In the Flower of Her Youth' far excels her former efforts." —
Public Opinion.

"Miss Collins may certainly be congratulated on having maintained,
so far as the story itself is concerned, the originality of style which
distinguishes her previous books." — Join Bull.

*' Brough, however, is sketched with so much fidelity that the
portrait will certainly be recognised by those who remember the
brilliant, genial, and jovial original who, not so many years ago, used
to shoulder his way along Fleet-street and the Strand, and was once,

by the way, a familiar figure in the streets of Nottingham The

description of Siena is charming — a complete picture without dry
detailed literatures, and replete with poetic feeling. ' In the Flower
of Her Youth' is in almost all respects an able, and in many respects a
powerful, book." — Nottingham Daily Guardian.

ON Dangerous GROUND. By Miss Edith

Stewart Drewky. 3 vols.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL THE
LIBRARIES.

SECOND EDITION OF

A PEERESS OF 1882. By Mrs. Alexander
Fraser, Author of " Guardian and Lover," " A Professional
Beauty," &c. 3 vols.

A wide popularity may safely be anticipated." — Morning Post.
"■ Those who delight in love stories have a feast in store in these
three volumes." —J/oc?er/i Society.

THIRD EDITION OF

FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS. By Florence

Marryat, Author of " My Sister the Actress," " A
Broken Blossom," &c. 3 vols.

* Facing the Footlights,' as its name indicates, is highly melodramatic."
— Athenaeum.

. Is at once an entertaining and well-written romance. . . .
The characters are admirably drawn. . . . We must congratulate the
authoress on the production of a really excellent novel."

Court Circular.
. The story is interesting and well worked out'*

ibt. Rameses Gazette.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS. By Annie Thomas
(Mrs. Pender Cudlip), Author of "Denis Donne,"
Allen-ton Towers," &c., &c. 3 vols.

"The incidents of the story become most interesting from the charm
of the writer's style." — Queen.

. Will be welcomed by the large circle of Mrs. Cudlip's admirers.
It is certainly in all respects equal to its now numerous predecessors,
and in many points superior to many'" — Graphic.

Mrs. Pender Cudlip's tale has great variety of scene and incident.
. . None of the usual materials tor the making of a good novel are
absent in * Friends and Lovers,' and the author has shown much skill
in weaving a more than usually complicated plot. This, united to the
writer's style, always full of movement and brightness, will insure a
large circle of readers for her latest work." — Morning Post.

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

MISCELLANEOUS PUBLICATIONS.

OUR TOUR IN SOUTHERN INDIA. By Mrs.

J. C. Murray Aynsley, Author of " Our Visit to
Hindostan," &c. 1 vol., demy 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d.

UNCLE ANTONY'S NOTE BOOK. By Mary

Caumoxt. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 2s. 6d. Post free,
2s. 9d.

Miss Beaumont has produced a volume of charming little stories
for children, full of genuine pathos and dealing with subjects and
incidents such as young readers can appreciate." — Scotsman.

"This little volume of tales for young folks is well written. . . . We
can heartily recommend 'Uncle Antony's Note Book" for the amusement
it affords and the sound moral it conveys." — Court Journal.

UNCLE GRUMPY, and other Plays for Juvenile
Actors and Actresses. By R. St. John Cornet.
Crown 8vo. Cloth, 2s. Post free, 2s. 3d.

A pleasant little work, which will be a valuable acquisition to boys
and girls in holiday time. The plays are bright and humorous, and,
as set forth on the title-page, may be easily learned, esLbilj acted, and
easily mounted." — Liverpool Daily Post.

As a book of parlour theatricals it is admirably suited to its purpose."
— Dundee Advertiser.

HOUSEHOLD CHEMISTRY FOR THE NON-chemical.
By A. J. Shelton, F.C.S. Crown 8vo.
Limp cloth, 28. Post free, 2s. M.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF FRED.
G. Burney, Col. Commanding the Royal Horse
Guards Blue, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." In
Picture Cover, Is. Post free. Is. 2d.

A REVIEW OF THE BELT TRIAL. With List
of Witnesses Examined, and a Sketch of the Life of
Mr. Belt, &c., &c. Price Is. Post free. Is. 2d.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

NEW NOVELS IN THE PRESS.

A FAS HIONABLE MARRIAGE. By Mrs. Alexander
Fraser, Author of '* A Peeress of 1882," "A
Fatal Passion," &c. 3 vols.

UNDER THE LASH. By Mrs. Houston,

Author of " Lost in the Crowd," " Recommended to

Mercy," &c. 2 vols.

THROUGH THE Stage-door. By Harriettt
Jay, Author of " My Connaught Cousins," " Two
Men and a Maid," &c. 3 vols.

UNDER THE BAN. By Charles Gibbon,

Author of " Auld Robin Gray," &c. 3 vols.

HIS DEAREST WISH. By Mrs. Hubert Ware,

Author of " The King of Bath," &c. 3 vols.

ONLY AN ACTRESS. By Edith Stewart

Dkewry, Author of " On Dangerous Ground," &c.
3 vols.

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

V:

OF* MadKE^^

FL(K^CE Maw

^^=^

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

AT URBANA-champaign



L475m
V.2

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/momentofmadnesso02lean

AND OTHER STORIES.

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR OF 'Phyllis,' 'FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS,' ETC., ETC

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL, II.

LONDON: R V. WHITE & CO.,
I 31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

ib«3.

wall Rights reserved

FLORENCE MARRYAT'S

POPULAR NOVELS.

Crown Zvo^ cloth, 35-. 6d.

At all Booksellers in Town and Country, and at all Railway Bookstalls.
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat,
Author of ' A Broken Blossom,' ' Phyllida,' ' How They
Loved Him,' etc., etc.

Phyllis. By Florence Marryat, Author of ' My
Sister the Actress,' 'A Broken Blossom,' etc., etc., etc.

THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL. By Florence Marryat,
Author of ' Love's Conflict,' ' Phyllida,' ' A Broken
Blossom,' etc., etc., etc.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat,
Author of * Phyllida,' ' Facing the Footlights,' etc., etc.

F. V. White & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

COLSTON and son, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

sent TO HIS DEATH ! '—a/z/'/Vzz/^^, . i

LOST IN THE MARSHES, . . .21

THE INVISIBLE TENANTS OF RUSH-mere,
93

AMY'S LOVER, 147

LEOPOLD-FERDINAND, DUG DE Brabant,
1S5

LITTLE WHITE SOULS, . . . .211

\m^n^^\

(Continued),

HAD been dreaming of the
ghost, and was conscious In a
moment, and sitting up in bed.
Whatever I had thought of
Bessie's tiles before, I believed them now,
for I could distinctly hear the low, gasping
breath which follows an inordinate fit of
sobbing, drawn apparent close to us.

What time is it ?' I exclaimed.

It is just three. I have been listening
to it for some time, but did not like to rouse
you till I was sure. Is the door locked ?'

Yes ; but I will unlock it at once,' I
said, springing out of bed.

No, no ! pray do not,' cried Bessie,
clinging to me. ' What are you doing ?
It might come into the room.'

VOL. II. A

My dear Bessie, if it is a ghost, no
locks can keep it out ; and if it is not a
ghost, what harm can it do us by entering ?
Pray be reasonable. We shall never clear
up this mystery if we are not a little brave !'

I shook her oft", and approached the door,
whilst she rushed back to her own bed.

I confess that as I turned the key in
the lock I felt very nervous. Do what
wee will, it is hard to accustom ourselves
to think lightly of communication with the
dead ; neither did I relish the idea of a
trick being played us in that lonely house
at dead of night. The light was burning
brightly in my room, but as I threw the
door open, the corridor seemed dark and
empty. I stood upon the threshold and
looked from right to left. What was that
white, tall shadow in the doorway of the
spare room .'*

I called out, * Who are you ? What do
you want ? ' The answer I received was
a quick sob and a rustle. Then I saw an
indistinct figure move down the passage
with a hurried step, and disappear somewhere
at the further end.

Shall I confess that for all my boasted
strength I had not the courage to follow
it .'^ It was one thing to have stood on
the threshold of my lighted room and

addressed the apparition, and another to
venture out into the cold and darkness in
pursuit of it. I retreated to Bessie's bedroom
instead.

I have seen it ! ' I exclaimed. * I
believe that you are right, Bessie, and for
the first time in my life I have seen a
ghost. I meant to have followed it ; but
I really felt I couldn't. To-morrow night I
may have more courage. But hark ! what
is that noise ? Isn't it baby crying } '

Never mind baby ; Mrs Graham will
attend to him,' said Bessie. ' Lock the
door again, Dolly dear, do, and get into
bed with me, or I shan't sleep another
wink to-nif^ht. I'm shaking from head to
foot as it is.'

But the cries from baby's room became
more distinct ; and my courage had returned
to me.

Let me go and see what Is the matter
with little Dick first,' I said, taking up the
lighted candle.

Bessie yelled at being kept alone In the
dark, but I could not have lain down again
without ascertaining what ailed the little
fellow ; so, disregarding her remonstrances,
I walked off to Mrs Graham's room. Her
door was unlocked, and I entered without
knocking:.

The child was still crying lustily ; and
what was my surprise to find his nurse,
utterly regardless of the noise, sitting up in
bed, with scared wide-open eyes, talking
vehemently.

Go away ! ' she was exclaiming in a loud
voice ; * Go away ! and don't come back
again. You let the water in each time you
open the door : I tell you we don't want
you ! Go away, I say, and doit come back
again ! '

She halted for a moment at this juncture,
and I was about to waken her from what I
perceived was a nightmare, when she
suddenly clapped her hands before her eyes
and screamed.

Ah, Heavens! a wave — a fearful wave
that covers the deck — that covers everything.
Where is he ? Where is he gone
to ? I have sent him to his death I
Edward ! Edward ! come back to me ! I
didn't mean it — I didn't mean it ! Ah !
Lord have pity on me.'

Her agitation was rising so rapidly, and
the baby was crying so violently, that I
thought it time to interfere.

Mrs Graham!' I exclaimed, shaking
her by the arm, ' wake up. Don't you hear
the baby wants you .'^'

She turned her big eyes upon me in such

a pitiful vacuous way. Then she recognised
me, and looked frightened.

Have I been dreaming ? Have I been
saying anything ? Oh ! I am so sorry,
she said apologetically, as she caught up
the child and held it to her breast.

You have only been talking a little in
your sleep'' I replied soothingly ; * don't be
alarmed ; you said nothing out of the
common way, and there is no one here but
myself.'

She did not answer, but as she held the
child I saw how her arms trembled.

Your agitation is the worst thing
possible for the baby, you know ; and you
must try and calm yourself for his sake,' I
continued.

I should be so sorry to hurt him,' she
murmured ; ' and I will try and not dream
again, if it is possible.'

Shall I fetch you anything ? '

Oh no, madam, thank you. The best
thing I can do is to go to sleep again.
There is nothing for me but sleep — and
prayer,' she added in a whisper.

I felt deeply interested in this young
woman. There was an air of patient
mournfulness about her that betokened
deep suffering ; and as I returned to my
room I resolved to do my best to be of use

to her. She so completely occupied my
thoughts, indeed, that I had forgotten all
about the ghost, till Bessie asked me how
I could possibly walk through the corridor
"with so composed a step.

My dear, I was thinking about baby
and his nurse, and quite forgot to be
frightened. Yes, they are all right now,
and going to sleep again comfortably ; and
I think the ghost must have followed their
example, for certainly there were no signs
of its presence as 1 returned : so I think
eve had better try to make up for our broken
rest by a few hours' sleep.'

Bessie was quite ready to do so ; but for
my own part I lay awake until the loitering
dawn broke through the shuttered
windows.

Mr Maclean's absence was really, I
found, not to be prolonged beyond the two
nights ; so I could write Dick word to
fetch me home on the following day ; but
I resolved, before I went, to have some
sort of explanatory conversation with Mrs
Graham, with respect to her dream of the
night before. I told nothing of it to
Bessie ; for I felt she would spoil everything
perhaps by her awkwardness in
handling the subject, or wound the poor
girl's feelings by too abrupt a reference to

her grief. But I watched Mrs Graham
leave the house at about eleven o'clock
to take her little charge out for his morning
walk, and as soon as Bessie descended
to the kitchen quarters to give her orders
for the day, I put on my bonnet and shawl
and ran after the nurse. There was a
cold wind blowing from the north, and I
knew I should find her in the sheltered
shrubbery, where she had been told to take
the child. It extended for some distance,
and when I came up with her we were
quite out of sight and hearing of the house.

A fine cold morning 1 ' I remarked, byway
of a beginning.

Very cold, madam.'

With the wind in the north. A nasty
day for the sea — I pity the ships in the
channel.'

To this she made no response.

Have you ever been on the sea, Mrs
Graham } '

Yes ! once ! ' with a shudder.
And did you like it ? '

Like it ? Oh ! for God's sake, mad im,
don't speak of it, for I cannot bear the
thought even.'

You were unfortunate, perhaps ? You
had experience of a storm } But the sea
is not always rough, Mrs Graham.'

She was silent, and I looked in her face,
and saw the tears streaming down it.

My dear girl,' I said, placing my hand
on her shoulder, ' don't think me unkind.
I have guessed somewhat of your history,
and I feel for you — oh, so deeply. Confide
in me ; my husband is a man of influence,
and I may be of use to you. I
see that you are superior to the position
you hold, and I have conceived an interest
in you. Don't keep your sorrows locked
in your own breast, or they will eat out
your very heart and life.'

As I spoke she began to sob piteously.

You are not doing right by this poor
little baby, nor his parents,' I continued,
by brooding over a silent grief. You will
injure his health, when perhaps if you will
tell us all, we may be able to comfort you.'

No one can comfort me, madam ! I am
beyond all relief

No one dare say that in this world,
which God rules according to His will.
You cannot tell what solace He may hold
in the future for you.'

I have no future,' she said sadly. * If
you think I am likely to injure this little
one,' pressing it tightly to her bosom, * I
am very, very sorry ; but to have something
to love and care for, seemed to be

Sent to His Death I ' 9

the only thing to prevent my going
mad.'

Mrs Graham, I don't wish to be impertinently
curious, but I want to hear
your story. Won't you tell in to me ? '

If you do, you will hate me — as I hate
myself.'

'I hardly think that possible. Of what
crime can you be guilty, to accuse yourself
so bitterly.'

/ am a imtrdei'ess ! '

She brought out the words so vehemently
that I started. Was it possible
she spoke the truth ? And yet I had seen
in our gaol, such young andsuperior-looking
criminals, that I knew it might be possible.
My thoughts flew at once to her child.

Was it the baby ? ' I cried. ' Oh ! my
poor child ! what drove you to such an
awful deed ? '

Do you pity me still ? '
I pity you with all my heart.'
Ah ! madam ; you are too good.'
She trembled so violently that I had
taken the child from her arms, and as I
stood there in the wintry path, she sank
down upon her knees before me and kissed
the border of my shawl, and hid her face
in it and cried.

Mrs Graham, I cannot believe it! '

No! you need not believe It. In that
sense I did not kill m)^ child. God took
It away from me In anger ; but I sent Its
father, my dearly-loved husband, to his
death.'

Sent him to his death ! '

Ah, madam ! have pity on me and listen.
We had been married but six months, and
we loved each other, ah ! so dearly. He
was a clerk In a city firm, and his employers
sent him over to Ireland on business.
We could not bear to part — we
went together. In order to return to
England we embarked In a small sailing
vessel, and we had a fearful storm in
crossing. The sea ran mountains high,
and the women on board were assembled
together In a deck cabin. The men to
whom they belonged kept looking In every
now and then to tell them how we were
getting on, and every time the door of the
cabin was opened, the sea rushed in and
wetted them. They grew impatient, I the
most of all ; and when my dear husband,
in his anxiety lest I should be frightened
at our danger, put his head In for the third
or fourth time I called out, saying, * Go
away, Edward, and dont come back again!
And he went away, and he never did come
back. Ah, Heaven ! have mercy upon me ! '

My poor girl ! how did it happen ?'

He was washed off the deck, madam,
by a huge wave that nearly swamped the
ship — so they told me afterwards. But I
never saw him more ! The glimpse I had of
his bonnie face as it was thrust in at the half-opened
door, beaming with love and anxiety,
was the last glimpse I was ever to have in
this world — and 1 sent him to his death. I
said, ' Go away, and don't come back — and
he never came back!' — he never came back!'

Her eries was so violent I almost thought
she would have swooned at my feet. I
tried to direct her thoughts in another
direction.

Have you no friends to go to, Mrs
Graham } '

None of my own. madam. I was a
soldier's orphan from the Home when
Edward married me. And I could not goto
his.'

How did you lose your baby ? '

It died of my grief, I suppose ; it only
lived a few days. And then they advised
me at the hospital to get a situation as wet
nurse ; and I thought the care of an infant
mio^ht soothe me a lite. But my sorrow
is past cure.'

You have bad dreams at night, I fear.*
Oh ! such awful dreams 1 He is always

calling me — calling me to go to him, and I
can find him nowhere ; or else 1 am in
the ship a^^aln, and see that which I never
did see — the cruel wave that washed him
from me ! '

Do you feel strong enough to take the
child ao^ain ? '

She had risen by this time, and was,
comparatively speaking, calm. She held
out her arms mechanically. I put the baby
in them, and then stooped and kissed her
swollen eyes and burning forehead.

I will not discuss this subject with you
further to-day,' I said ; ' but you have
found a friend. Go on with your walk,
child, and may God comfort you. I am
glad you have told mee the story of your
grief

I hurried back to Bessie, fearful lest she
might come in search of me, and insist
upon hearing the reason of Mrs Graham's
tears. There was no doubt of one thing
another nurse must be found as soon as
possible for little Dick, and I must take on
myself the responsibility of providing for
his present one. But all that required my
husband's permission and advice, and I
must wait till I had seen and confided in
him.

Bessie, w4io had discovered that, notwithstanding

my deplorable deficiency In
the way of children, I could cut out their
garments far better than she could do herself,
had provided a delightful entertainment
for me in the shape of half-a-dozen
frocks to be made ready for the nurse's
hands, and the whole afternoon was spent
in snipping and piecing and tacking together.
But I didn't grumble ; may mind
was too much occupied with poor Mrs
Graham and her pathetic stores I thought
of it so much that the temporary fear
evoked by the apparition of the night
before had totally evaporated. In the
presence of a real, substantial human grief,
we can hardly spare time for imaginary
horrors.

As bed-time recurred, and Bessie and I
locked ourselves into our stronghold, I
refused the half of the bed she offered me,
and preferred to retain my own. I even
made up my mind, if possible, not to sleep,
but to Vv^atch for the mysterious sounds,
and be the first to investigate them.
So I would not put out my candle, but lay
in bed readings honor after Bessie's snores
had announced her departure to the land
of dreams.

I had come to the end of my book, my
candle, and my patience, and was just about

to give up the vigil as a failure, when I
heard footsteps distinctly sounding along
the corridor. I was out of bed in a
moment, with my hand upon the lock of
the door. I waited till the steps had
passed my room, and then I turned the
key and looked gently out. The same
white figure I had seen the night before
was standing a little beyond me, its course
arrested, as it would appear, by the slight
sound of unlocking the door.

Now or never,' I thought to myself.
Dick always says I am the bravest woman
he ever met, and I will try and prove him
true. Why should I be afraid '^. Even If
this is a spirit, God is over it and us,
alike!'

So I stepped out into the passage, just
as I should sit down to have a tooth drawn.
The figure had recommenced walking, and
was some paces farther from me. I followed
it, saying softly, 'What are you?
Speak to me.' But it did not turn, but
went on, clasping Its hands, and talking
rapidly to Itself.

A sudden thought flashed across my
mind. In a moment I felt sure that I was
right, and had solved the mystery of
Poplar Farm. I placed myself full in the
path of the apparition, and as the end of

the corridor forced it to turn and retrace its
steps, I met face to face my poor, pretty
Mrs Graham, with the flaxen hair she
usually kept concealed beneath her widow's
cap, streaming over her shoulders and
giving her a most weird and unearthly
appearance.

Edward ! Edward ! ' she was whispering
in a feverish, uncertain manner, ' where are
you ? It is so dark here and so cold. Put
out your hand and lead me. I want to come
to you, darling ; I want to come to you.'

I stretched out my own hand and took
hers. She clung to me joyfully.

'Is it you?' she exclaimed, in the undisturbed
voice of a sleep-walker. ' Have
I found you again ? Oh, Edward ! I have
been trying to find you for so long — so
long, and I thought we were parted forever.'


I drew her gently along to her own room
and put her in her bed, whilst she continued
to talk to me in the fond, low tones in
which she thought she was addressing her
dead husband.

Bessie slept through it all.

Of course I told her all about it next
day, and equally, of course, she did not
believe half what I said. She did not like

the Idea of parting with her cherished
grievance In the shape of the ghost, nor
having the trouble of chanorintr her wet

o o o

nurse. So I left her, as soon as ever Dick
arrived, rather disgusted with the manner
in which she had received my efforts for
her good, but still determined to do what I
could in the way of befriending Mrs
Graham. As 1 told her the last thing,
when I ran up to the nursery to say goodbye
to lite Dick, and received her grateful
thanks in reply. * Only nothing,' she
said with a deep sigh, * could ever do her
any good In this world again.'

But I'm determined to get her out of
Poplar Farm,' I said to Dick, as we drove
homeward, after I had told him this longwinded
story. ' She's killing the baby and
herself too. She ought to have a much
more cheerful home and active employment.
Now, can't you think of something
for her to do about the gaol or the hospital,
like a dear, darling old boy as you are ? '

Well, I don't quite see how you can
take Mrs Maclean's servant away from her
against her will, Dolly. If Mrs Graham
leaves. It will be a different thing ; but as
things are, I'm afraid you ought not to
interfere.'

I called him a wretch : but I knew he

was right for all that, and determined to
take his advice and wait patiently to see
how things turned out. And, as it happened,
I had not long to wait, for a week
afterwards I received this doleful epistle
from Bessie : —

My dear Dolly, — I am perfectly
miserable ; nothing ever goes right with
me. Tom threw Charlie out of the wheelbarrow
yesterday, and cut his forehead
right across. He will be scarred for life.
And nurse has entirely spoiled those frocks
you were so kind as to cut out for Lily and
Bessie. She is so obstinate, she would
have her own way, and the children positively
cannot get into them. But the
worst news of all is, that Mrs Graham is
going to leave me, and I have had to wean
baby, and put him on the bottle.'

Hurrah ! ' I cried, ' it's all right. I shall
get that poor child here after all, and
be able to patch up her broken life.
No, I shan't, though,' I continued, as
I went on reading, and then, to my husband's
astonishment, I fell on his neck, and
burst into tears. ' Oh, Dick, Dick, Dick, I
am so glad ! '

'Halloa! what's up now?' said that

VOL. II. B

vulgar Dick, In his own way of expressing
things.

My darling, she's got him again

Who's got which ? '

Mrs Graham's husband has returned.
He wasn't drowned, but let me finish the
letter,' and drying my eyes I went on —

Just imagine how awkward and unpleasant
for me. The other evening there
was an awful screaming in the kitchen,
and when I went down, I found Mrs
Graham fainted dead away in the arms of
a man. I was very angry at first, naturally
; but when she recovered I found it
was her husband whom she thought was
drowned at sea three months ago. It seems
he was picked up insensible by some ship,
and taken to Spain, where he had a fever,
and was delirious, and all that sort of thing ;
and when he recovered, he worked his way
home before the mast, and had only just
found out where his wife lived. But I
think it is excessively unreasonable of
people to take situations, and say they're
widows, and then — '

Oh, don't read any more of that rubbish,
for heaven's sake ! ' said Dick, irreverently.
' The long and the short of the



matter is, that the girl's got her man
again.'

Oh ! I ann so thankful ! ' I exclaimed,
with the tears still in my eyes ; I couldn't
help it, they would come. ' Poor child !
poor, desolate, heart-broken child! What
a heaven earth must appear to her to-day.
Dick, will you drive me over to the farm
directly after breakfast .^ I want to see
her and congratulate her.'

You seem to take a vast interest in this
Mrs Graham, and her joys and sorrows,'
said Dick ; ' why is it, Dolly ? '

Because I can sympathise with them so
deeply. Because — because — oh, Dick, you
know — because God has given me — you,
and I am the very happiest woman in all
the world.'

THE END.

N the east coast of the county
of Norfolk, there lay a village
which shall be distinguished by
the name of Cotton. It was
bounded on the one side by the sea, on
the other by the open country, and beside
the two or three gentleman farmers whose
possessions comprised all the agricultural
land within a radius of five miles, it could
boast of a church and resident parson — a
coastguard with its attendant officer, and
above all, close contiguity with Moorlands,
the estate of the Earl of Worcester. And
those who are acquainted with the moral
and social aspect, as it existed forty or fifty
years ago, of the more insignificant villages
of Norfolk, will acknowledge that Cotton
was favoured above its fellows. The seacoast
in its vicinity brought many a gay

riding party over from Rooklands, either
to enjoy the fresh breezes, or to bathe in
the sparkling waves from some sequestered
nook, whilst the congregation of the church
was made up of drafts from some four or
five outlying hamlets which had not the
advantage of a place of worship of their
own. Conceive then what a much larger
audience the Cotton parson could depend
upon, when the women had a prospect of
seeing the bonnets from ten miles round
(to say nothing of a chance of the Rook-land
aristocrats taking it into their heads
to drive out), in addition to listening to his
somewhat uninteresting sermons. The
coastguard, too, was a cause of constant
excitement, on account of the Admiralty
having been in the habit of bestowing the
appointment on old, worn-out, half-pay
lieutenants who chose to expire almost as
soon as they obtained it, and really, notwithstanding
the church and the parson
and Rooklands, there was not much in
Cotton worth living for. But at the time
this story opens, the charge of the coast
had not long been put in the hands of
(comparatively speaking) a young and hale
man who bid fair to keep anybody else out
of it for a long while to come. His office
was no sinecure though, for, notwithstanding

the difficulty of landing, the coast was
a celebrated one for smuo^o^lers, and as soon
as the dark months of winter set in there
was no lack of work for the preventive
officers. For the village of Cotton did
not, of itself, run down to the sea. Between
it and the ocean there lay the salt
marshes, a bleak, desolate tract of land,
which no skill or perseverance could reclaim
from apparent uselessness. Except
to the samphire and cockle-gatherers, the
salt marshes of Cotton were an arid wilderness
which could yield no fruit. Many
a farmer had looked longingly across the
wide waste which terminated only with the
shingled beach, and wondered if it were
possible to utilise it. But as it had been
from the beginning, so it remained until
that day ; its stinted vegetation affording
shelter for sea-fowl and smugglers' booty
only, and its brackish waters that flowed
and ebbed with the tides, tainting the best
springs on the level ground of Cotton.
It was the existence of these marshes that
rendered the coastguard necessary to the
village, which would otherwise have become
a perfect nest of smugglers. As it
was, notwithstanding all the vigilance of
Mr John Burton and his men, many a keg
of spirits and roll of tobacco were landed

on the coast of Cotton, and many a
man in the place was marked by them
as guilty, though never discovered. For
they who had lived by the salt marshes all
their lives were cunning as to their properties,
and knew just where they might bury
their illegal possessions with impunity when
the tide was low, and find them safe when
it had flowed and ebbed again. Everyone
was not so fortunate. Lives had been lost
in the marshes before now — ay, and of
Cotton men too, and several dark tales
were told by the gossips of the village of
the quagmires and quicksands that existed
in various parts of them, which looked,
although they never were, both firm and
dry, but had the power to draw man and
horse with the temerity to step upon them,
into their unfathomable depths. But if the
smugglers kept Mr Burton and his men
fully occupied on the sea shore, the poachers
did no less for Lord Worcester's band of
gamekeepers at Rooklands ; and Farmer
Murray, who had a drop of Scotch blood
running in his veins, and was never so
much alive as when his own interests were
concerned, had only saved his game for
the last three years by having been fortunate
enough to take the biggest poacher in
Cotton, red-handed, and let him off on

condition that he became his keeper and
preserved his covers from future violence.
'Set a thief to catch a thief is a time-honoured
saying, and Farmer Murray found
it answer. Isaac Barnes, the unscrupulous
poacher, became a model gamekeeper, and
the midnight rest of the inhabitants of
Mavis Farm had never been disturbed by
a stray shot since ; though the eldest son,
George Murray, had been heard to affirm
that half the fun of his life was gone now
that there was no chance of a tussle with
the poachers. Such was the state of Cor-son
some forty years ago. The villagers
were rough, uneducated, and lawless, and
the general condition of the residents,
vapid and uninteresting enough to have
provoked any amount of wickedness, if
only for the sake of change or excitement.

It was the end of September, and the
close of a glorious summer. The harvest
had been abundant and the Norfolk soil,
which knows so well how to yield her
fruits in due season, was like an exhausted
mother which had just been delivered of
her abundance. The last sheaves of golden
corn were standing in the fields ready to
be carried to the threshing-barn, the trees
in the orchards were weighed down with

their wealth of pears and apples, and in
every lane clusters of bare-headed children
with their hands full of nuts and their faces
stained with blackberry juice, proved how
nature had showered her bounties on rich
and poor alike. Lizzie Locke, who was
making her way slowly in the direction of
the village, with a huge basket on her arm,
stopped more than once to wipe her hot
face, and pull the sun bonnet she wore
further over her eyes, although in another
couple of days the October moon would
have risen upon the land. She was a
young girl of not more than eighteen or
twenty years, and, as her dress denoted,
bred from the labouring classes. Not
pretty — unless soft brown hair, a fair skin
and delicate features, can make a woman
so — but much more refined in appearance
than the generality of her kind. The
hands that grasped the handle of her heavy
basket had evidently never done much
hard work, nor were her feet broadened or
her back bent with early toiling in the
turnip and the harvest fields. The reason
of this was apparent as soon as she turned
her eyes toward you. Quiet blue eyes
shaded by long lashes, that seldom unveiled
them — eyes that, under more fortuitous
circumstances, might have flashed and

sparkled with roguish mirth, but that
seemed to bear now a settled melancholy
in them, even when her mouth smiled :
eyes, in fact, that had been blinded from
their birth.

Poor Lizzie Locke ! There was a true
and great soul burning in her breast, but
the windows were darkened and it had no
power to look out upon the world. As
she stood still for a few moments' rest for
the third or fourth time between the salt
marshes and Cotton, her quick ear caught
the sound of approaching horses' feet, and
she drew on one side of the open road tolet
the rider pass. But instead of that, the
animal was drawn up suddenly upon its
haunches, and a pleasant young voice rang
out in greeting to her.

Why, Lizzie, is that you ? What a careless
girl you are — I might have ridden over
you.'

Miss Rosa,' exclaimed the blind girl,
as she recognised the voice and smiled
brightly in return.

Of course it's Miss Rosa, and Polly is
as fresh as a two-year-old this morning.
She always is, when she gets upon the
marshes. It's lucky I pulled up in time.'

The new comer, a handsome girl of about
the same age as Lizzie, was the only

daughter of Farmer Murray, of Mavis
Farm. Spoilt, as one girl amongst half-a-dozen
boys is sure to be, it is not to be
wondered at that Rosa Murray was impetuous,
saucy, and self-willed. For, added
to her beinor her father's darlings, and not
knowing what it was to be denied anything
in his power to give her, Miss Rosa was
extremely pretty, with grey eyes and dark
hair, and a complexion like a crimson rose.
A rich brunette beauty that had gained for
her the title of the Damask Rose of Cotton,
and of which no one was better aware than
herself. Many a gentleman visitor at
Rooklands had heard of the fame of the
farmer's pretty daughter, and ridden over
to Cotton on purpose to catch a glimpse
of her, and it was beginning to be whispered
about the village that no one in those parts
would be considered o^ood enough for a
husband for Miss Rosa, and that Mr Murray
was set upon her marrying a gentleman
from London, any gentleman from
London ' being considered by the simple
rustics to be unavoidably ' the glass of
fashion and the mould of form.' Mr Murray
was termed a ' gentleman farmer ' in
that part of the county, because he lived ina
substantially built and well-furnished
house, and could afford to keep riding-horses

in his stable and sit down to a
dinner spread on a tablecloth every day.
But, in reality, his father had commenced
life as a ploughman in that very village of
Cotton, and it was only necessary to bring
Farmer Murray into the presence of Lord
Worcester and his fashionable friends to
see how much of a * gentleman ' he was.
He had made the great mistake, however,
of sending his children to be educated at
schools above their station in life, the consequence
of which was that, whilst their
tastes and proclivities remained plebeian as
his own, they had acquired a self-sufficiency
and idea of their merits that accorded ill
with their surroundings and threatened to
mar their future happiness. The Damask
Rose of Cotton was the worst example
amongst them of the evil alluded to. She
had unfortunately lost her mother many
years before, so was almost completely
her own mistress, and the admiration her
beauty excited was fast turning her from a
thoughtless flirt into a heartless coquette,
the most odious character any woman can
assume.

But with her own sex, and when it
suited her, Rosa Murray could be agreeable
and ingenuous enough, and there was
nothing but cordiality in the tone in which

she continued her conversation with h'lzziQ
Locke.

What are you doing out here by yourself,
child ? You really ought not to go
about alone. It can't be safe.'

Oh, it's safe enough, Miss Rosa. I've
been used to find my way about ever since
I could walk. I've just come up from the
marshes, and I was going to take these
cockles to Mavis Farm to see if the master
would like them for his breakfast tomorrow.'


I daresay they will be very glad of
them. George and Bob are awfully fond
of cockles. What a lot you've gathered,
Lizzie. How do you manage to find
them, when you can't see ? '

I know all the likeliest places they
stick to. Miss Rosa, as well as I do the
chimney corner at home. The tide comes
up and leaves them on the bits of rocks,
and among the boulders, and some spots
are regular beds of them. I've been at it
half my life, you see, miss, and I just feel
for them with my fingers and pick them off.
I can tell a piece of samphire, too, by the
sound it makes as I tread over it.'

It's wonderful,' said Rosa ; ' I have
often been surprised to see you go about
just as though you had the use of your

eyes. It seems to make no difference to
you

Poor h'lzzie sighed.

Oh, miss ! it makes a vast difference
such a difference as you could never
understand. But I try to make the best
of it, and not be more of a burden upon
aunt and Larry than I need to be.'

I'm sure they don't think you a burden,'
said the other girl, warmly. ' But I wonder
I didn't meet you on the marshes just
now. I've been galloping all over them.'

Not past Cotton Point, I hope, miss,'
exclaimed Lizzie, hurriedly.

Yes, I have ! Why not ? '

'Oh, don't go there again. Miss Rosa.
It isn't safe, particularly on horseback.
There's no end of quagmires beyond the
Point, and you can never tell when you'll
come on one and be swallowed up, horse
and all.'

Rosa Murray laughed.

Why aren't yoic swallowed up then,
Lizzie ?'

I know my way, miss, and I know the
tread of it too. I can tell when the soil
yields more than it should at low tide that
I'm nearing a quicksand. When the Almighty
takes away one sense He sharpens
the others to make up for it. But the

sands are full of danger ; some of them
are shifting too, and you can never tell if
they're firm to-day whether they won't be
loose tomorrow. Do take heed, Miss
Rosa, and never you ride beyond Cotton
Point without one of the young gentlemen
to take care of you.'

'Well, I'll remember your advice, Lizzie,
for I don't want to be swallowed up alive.
Good-bye.'

She put her horse in motion and cantered
on some little way in advance —
then suddenly checked him again and
turned back. All Rosa Murray's actions,
like her disposition, were quick and impulsive.


By the way, Lizzie, It's our harvest-home
supper to-night. You must be sure
and make Larry bring you up to the big
barn with him.'

The blind girl crimsoned with pleasure.

Oh, Miss Rosa ! but what should I be
doing at your supper ? I can't dance,
you know. I shall only be in the way.'

Nonsense ! You can hear the singing
and the music ; we have made papa get a
couple of fiddlers over from Wells ; and
you can eat some supper. You will enjoy
yourself, won't you, Lizzie ? '

Yes, miss, I think so — that is, if Larry

and aunt are willing that I should go ;
but It's very good of you to ask me.'

You must be sure and come. Tell
Larry I Insist upon It. We shall all be
there, you know, and I shall look out for
you, Lizzie, and If I don't see you I shall
send some one round to your cottage to
fetch you.'

Lizzie Locke smiled and curtsied.

I'll be sure and tell Larry of your goodness,
miss,' she said, ' and he'll be able to
thank you better than I can. Here comes
a gentleman,' she added, as she withdrew
herself modestly from the side of the young
lady's horse.

The gentleman, whom Lizzie Locke
could have distinguished only as such
from the different sound produced by his
boots In walking, was Lord Worcester's
head gamekeeper, Frederick Darley. He
was a young fellow to hold the responsible
position he did, being only about thirty
years of age, and he had not held It long ;
but he was the son of the gamekeeper on
one of Lord Worcester's estates In the
south of England, and his lordship had
brought him to Rooklands as soon as
ever a vacancy occurred. He was a
favourite with his master and his master's
guests, being a man of rather superior

VOL. II. C

breeding and education, but on that very-account
he was much disliked by all the
poor people around. Gamekeepers are
not usually popular in a poaching district,
but it was not Frederick Darley's position
alone that made him a subject for criticism.
His crying sin, to use their own term, was
that he * held his head too high.' The
velveteen coat he usually wore, with a rose
in the button-hole, his curly black hair
and waxed moustache, no less than the
cigars he smoked and the air with which
he affected the society of the gentry,
showed the tenants of Rooklands that he
considered himself vastly above themselves
in position, and they hated him accordingly.
The animus had spread to Cotton, but
Mr Darley was not well enough known
there yet to have become a subject for
general comment. Lizzie Locke had
never even encountered him before.

He was walking from the village on the
present occasion swinging a light cane in
his hand, and as Rosa Murray looked up
at the blind girl's exclamation, she perceived
him close to her horse's head.

'Good morning. Miss Murray,' he said,
lifting his hat.

Good morning,' she replied, without
mentioning any name, but Lizzie Locke

could detect from the slight tremor In her
voice that she was confused at the sudden
encounter. * Were you going down to the
beach ? '

I was going nowhere but in search of
you.'

Shall we walk towards home then ? '
said Rosa, suiting the action to the word.
She evidently did not wish the blind girl
to be a party to their conversation. She
called out ' Good-bye, Lizzie once more
as she walked her horse away, but before
she was out of hearing, the little cockle-gatherer
could distinguish her say to the
stranger in a fluttered voice, —

I am so glad you are coming over to
our harvest-home to-night.'

One of the grand gentlemen over from
Rooklands come to court Miss Rosa,' she
thought in the innocence of her heart, as
she turned off the road to take a shortcut
across the country to Mavis Farm.
Meanwhile the couple she alluded to
were making their way slowly towards
Cotton ; she, reining in her horse to the
pace of a tortoise, whilst he walked by the
side with his hand upon the crutch of her
saddle.

Could you doubt for a moment whether
I should come ? ' said Frederick Darley in

answer to Rosa's question. * Wouldn't I
go twenty — fifty miles, for the pleasure of
a dance with you ? '

You're such an awful flatterer,' she
replied, bridling under the compliment ;
but don't make too sure of a dance with
me, for papa and my brothers will be
there, and they are so horribly particular
about me.'

'And not particularly fond of me — I
know it, Miss Murray — but I care nothing
at all about it so long as — as — '

'As what?'

^ As you are!

Oh, Mr Darley ! how can you talk such
nonsense ? '

'It's not nonsense! it's sober sense —
come, Rosa, tell me the truth. Are you
playing with me, or not ? '

What do you mean by " playing" ?'

You know. Are you in earnest or in
jest ? In fact — do you love me better
than you love your father and your
brothers ? '

Mr Darley ! You know I do ! '

Prove it then, by meeting me to-night.'

Meeting you ? Are you not coming to
the harvest-home ? '

I may look in, but I shall not remain
long ; I shall only use it as an excuse to

come over to Cotton. Mr Murray is
suspicious of me — I can see that — and
your brothers dislike me. I don't care to
sit at the table of men who are not my
friends, Rosa. But if you will take an
opportunity to slip out of the barn and
join me in the apple copse, I will wait therefor
you at ten o'clock

Oh ! Frederick — if papa should catch
me!'

I will take care of that ! Only say
you'll come.'

I should like to come — it will be so
lovely and romantic. Just like a scene
in a novel. But I am afraid it is very
wrong.'

What is there wrong in a moonlight
stroll ? " The summer nights were made
for love," Rosa, and we shall have a
glorious moon by nine o'clock to-night.
You won't disappoint me, will you ? '

No, indeed I won't ; but if anything
should be discovered you will promise
me — '

What ? I will promise you anything
in the world.'

Only that you will shield me from
papa's anger — that you will say it was all
your fault. For papa is dreadful when he
gets in a temper.'

If you should be discovered — which Is
not at all likely — I promise you that, rather
than give you back into papa's clutches, I
will carry you straight off to Rooklands
and marry you with a special licence.
Will that satisfy you ? Would you consent
to be my wife, Rosa ?'

Yes ! ' she replied, and earnestly, for
she had been captivated by the manner
and appearance of Frederick Darley for
some weeks past, and this was not the first
meeting by many that they had held without
the knowledge of her father.

That's my own Damask Rose,' he exclaimed
triumphantly ; ' give me a kiss,
dear, just one to seal the contract ; there's
no one looking!' He held up his face
towards her as he spoke — his handsome
insouciant face with its bright eyes and
smile, and she stooped hers to meet it, and
give the embrace he petitioned for.

But someone was looking. Almost as
Rosa's lips met Barley's a frightened look
came into her eyes, and she uttered a note
of alarm.

What is It, darling ? '

It's my brother George ! He's coming
this way. Oh ! go, Mr Darley — pray go
across the field and let me canter on to
meet him.' He would have stayed to remonstrate,

but the girl pushed him from
her, and thinking discretion the better part
of valour, he jumped over a neighbouring
stile and walked away in the direction she
had indicated, whilst she, with a considerable
degree of agitation, rode on to
make what excuses she best could for the
encounter to her brother. George murray
was sauntering along the hedge-row switching
the leaves off the hazel bushes as he
went, and apparently quite unsuspicious
of anything being wrong. But the first
question he addressed to his sister went
straight to the point.

Who was that fellow that was talking
to you just now, Rosa ? '

She knew it would be of no use trying
to deceive him, so she spoke the
truth.

It was Mr Darley ! '

What's he doing over here ? '

How should I know ? You'd better
ask him yourself! Am I accountable for
Mr Barley's actions.'^'

Don't talk nonsense. You know what
I mean perfectly well. Did he come over
to Rooklands to see you .^ '

To see me — what will you get into
your head next 1 '

Well, you seemed to be hitting it off

pretty well together. What were you
whispering to him about just now ?'

I didn't whisper to him.'

You did ! I saw you stoop your head
to his ear. Now look here, Rosa ! Don't
you try any of your flirtation games on
with Darley, or I'll go straight to the
governor and tell him.'

And what business is it of yours, pray ? '

It would be the business of every one
of us. You don't suppose we're going tolet
you marry a gamekeeper, do you ? '

Really, George, you're too absurd.
Cannot a girl stop to speak to a man in
the road without being accused of wanting
to marry him ? You will say I want to
marry every clodhopper I may dance with
at the harvest-home to-night next.'

That is a very different thing. The
ploughboys are altogether beneath you,
but this Darley is a kind of half-and-half
fellow that might presume to imagine himself
good enough to be a match for you.'

Half-and-half indeed ! ' exclaimed Rosa,
nettled at the reflection on her lover ;
and pray, what are we when all's said and
done ? Mr Darley's connections are as
good as our own, and better, any day.'

Halloa ! what are you making a row
about ? I'll tell you what, Rosa. It

strikes me very forcibly you want to
carry on " with Lord Worcester's keeper,
and you ought to be ashamed of yourself
for thinking of it. You — who have been
educated and brought up in every respect
like a lady — to condescend to flirt with an
upstart like that, a mein servant ! Why,
he's no better than Isaac Barnes, or old
Whisker, or any of the rest of them, only
he's prig enough to oil his hair, and wear
a button-hole, in order to catch the eye of
such silly noodles like yourself

You've no right to speak to me in this
way, George. You know nothing at all
about the matter.'

I know that I found Darley and you
in the lane with your heads very close together,
and that directly he caught sight
of me he made off That doesn't look as
if his intentions were honourable, does it ?
Now, look you here, Rosa. Is he coming
to the barn to-niorht ? '

o

I believe so ! '

And who asked him ? '

1 don't know,' she replied, evasively ;
papa, perhaps — or very likely Mr Darley
thought he required no invitation to join
a ploughman's dance and supper.'

Well, you're not to dance with him if
he does come.'

I don't know what right you have to
forbid it.'

None at all ! but if you won't give me
the promise I shall go straight to the
governor, and let him know what I saw
to-day. Hes seen something of It himself,
I can tell you, and he told me to put
you on your guard, so you can take your
choice of having his anger or not.'

This statement was not altogether true,
for if Farmer Murray had heard anything
of his daughter's flirtation with the handsome
gamekeeper, It had been only what
his sons had suggested to him, and he did
not believe their reports. But the boys,
George and Robert, now young men of
three or four-and-twenty, had had more
than one consultation together on the subject,
and quite made up their minds that
their sister must not be allowed to marry
Frederick Darley. For they were quite
alive to the advantages that a good connection
for her might afford to themselves,
and wanted to see her raise the family
instead of lowering it.

Rosa, however, believed her brother's
word. Dread of her father's anger actuated
in a great measure this belief, and she began
to fear lest all communication between
Darley and herself might be broken off if

she did not give the required promise.
And the very existence of the fear opened
her eyes to the truth, that her lover was
become a necessary part of Hfe's enjoyment
to her. So, Hke a true woman
and a hunted hare, she temporised and
doubled.'

Does papa really think I am too intimate
with Mr Darley, George ? ' she
inquired, trembling.

Of course he does, like all the rest of
us.'

But it's a mistake. I don't care a pin
about him.'

Then it will be no privation for you
to give up dancing with him to-night.'

I never intended to dance with him.'

Honour bright, Rosa ? '

Well, I can't say more than I have.
However, you will see. I shall not dance
with him. If he asks me, I shall say I am
engaged to you.'

You can say what you like, so long as
you snub the brute. I wonder at his impudence
coming up to our "Home" at
all. But these snobs are never wanting in
"cheek." However, if Bob and I don't
give him a pretty broad hint to-night that
his room Is preferable to his company,
I'm a duffer ! Are you going in, Rosa ? '

For the young people had continued to
walk towards their own home, and had
now arrived at the farm gates.

Yes. I've been in the saddle since ten
o'clock this morning, and have had enough
of it'

Let me take Polly round to the stables
before the governor sees the state you've
brought her home in, then,' said George,
as his sister dismounted and threw him
the reins. He could be good-natured
enough when he had his own way, and
he thought he had got it now with Rosa.
But she went up to her chamber bent but
on one idea — how best to let Mr Darley
know of what had passed between her
brother and herself, that he might not be
surprised at the caution of her behaviour
when they met in the big barn.

Meanwhile Lizzie Locke having left
her basket of cockles at Mavis Farm, had
reached her cottage home. Her thoughts
had been very pleasant as she journeyed
there and pondered on the coming pleasure
of the evening. It was not often the poor
child took any part in the few enjoyments
to be met in Cotton. People were apt to
leave her out of their invitations, thinking
that as she was blind she could not possibly

derive any amusement from hearing,
and she was of too shrinking and modest
a nature to obtrude herself where she was
not specially required. She had never
been to one of the harvest-home suppers
given by Farmer Murray (in whose employ
her cousin Laurence worked), though she
had heard much of their delights. But now
that Miss Rosa had particularly desired her
to come, she thought Larry would be pleased
to take her. And she had a print dress
nice and clean for the occasion, and her
aunt would plait her hair neatly for her,
and she should hear the sound of Larry's
voice as he talked to his companions, and
of his feet whilst he was dancing, and,
perhaps, after supper one of his famous
old English songs — songs which they had
heard so seldom of late, and the music of
which her aunt and she had missed so
much.

It was past twelve o'clock as she entered
the cottage, but she was so full of her grand
news that she scarcely remembered that she
must have kept both her relations waiting
for their dinner of bacon and beans.

Why, Lizzie, my girl, where on earth
have you been to ? ' exclaimed her aunt,
Mrs Barnes, as she appeared on the threshold.
Mrs Barnes' late husband had been

brother to the very Isaac Barnes, once
poacher, now gamekeeper on Farmer Murray's
estate, and there were scandal-mongers
in Cotton ill-natured enough to assert that
the taint was in the blood, and that young
Laurence Barnes was very much inclined
to go the same way as his uncle had done
before him. But at present he was a helper
in the stables of Mavis Farm.

I've been along the marshes,' said
Lizzie, ' gathering cockles, and they gave
me sixpence for them up at the farm ; and
oh, aunt ! I met Miss Rosa on my way
back, and she says Larry must take me upto
the big barn this evening to their 
supper.'

Laurence Barnes was seated at his
mother's table already occupied in the discussion
of a huge lump of bread and bacon,
but as the name of his master's daughter
left Lizzie's lips it would have been very
evident to any one on the look-out for it
that he started and seemed uneasy.

And what will you be doing at a dance
and a supper, my poor girl ? ' said her aunt,
but not unkindly. ' Come, Lizzie, sit down
and take your dinner ; that's of much more
account to you than a harvest merrymaking.'


Not till Larry has promised to take me

up with him this evening,' replied the girl
gaily, and without the least fear of a rebuff.
You'll do it, Larry, won't you ? for Miss
Rosa said they'd all be there, and if she
didn't see me she'd send round to the
cottage after me. She said, ' Tell Larry I
insist upon it ; she did, indeed ! '

Well, then, I'm not going up myself,
and so you can't go,' he answered roughly.

Not going yourself ! '

The exclamation left the lips of both
women at once. They could not understand
it, and it equally surprised them.
Larry — the best singer and dancer for
twenty miles round, to refuse to go up to
his master's harvest-home ! Why, what
would the supper and the dance be without
him ? At least, so thought Mrs Barnes
and Lizzie.

Aren't you well, Larry ? ' demanded
the blind girl, timidly.

Lm well enough ; but I don't choose to
go. I don't care for such rubbish. Let 'em
bide! They'll do well enough without us.'

Lizzie dropt into her seat in silence, and
began in a mechanical way to eat her
dinner. She was terribly disappointed,
but she did not dream of disputing her
cousin's decision. He was master in that
house ; and she would not have cared to

go to the barn without Larry. Half the
pleasure would be gone with his absence.
He did not seem to see that.

Mother can take you up, Liz, If she hasa
mind to,' he said, presently.

/ take her along of me ! * cried Mrs
Barnes, ' when I haven't so much as a clean
kerchief to pin across my shoulders. You're
daft, Larry. I haven't been to such a thing
as a dance since I laid your father In the
churchyard, and If our Liz can't go without
me she must stop at home.'

I don't want to go. Indeed I don't, not
without Larry,' replied the blind girl,
earnestly.

And what more did Miss Rosa say to
you ? ' demanded her aunt, inquisitively.

We talked about the sands, aunt. She'd
been galloping all over them this morning,
and I told her how dangerous they were
beyond Cotton Point, and we was getting
on so nice together, when some one came
and interrupted us.'

Some one ! Who's some one ? ' said
Laurence Barnes, quickly.

I can't tell you ; I never met him
before.'

'Twas a man, then .^ '

Oh yes ! 'twas a man — a gentleman !
I knew that, because there were no nails

in his boots, and he didn't give at the knees
as he walked.'

What more ? ' demanded Larry, with
lowered brows.

Miss Rosa knew him well, because they
never named each other, but only wished
"good morning." She said, "What are you
doing here ? " and he said, " Looking after
you." He carried a rose in his hand or
his coat, I think, for I smelt it, and a cane,
too, for it struck the saddle flap.'

Well, that's enough,' interrupted Laurence,
fiercely.

I thought you wanted to hear all about
it, Larry .^ '

Is there any more to tell, then ? *

Only that as they walked away together.
Miss Rosa said she was so glad he was
coming up to the harvest-home to-night.'

So les a-going, the cur ! ' muttered the
young man between his teeth. ' / know
him, with his cane, and his swagger, and
his stinking roses ; and I'll be even with
him yet, or my name's not Larry Barnes.'

It was evident that Mr Frederick Darley
was no greater favourite in the cottage
than the farm.

Whoever are you talking of ? ' said
Larry's mother. ' Do you know the gentleman
Lizzie met with, Miss Rosa ? '

VOL. II. D

Gentleman ! He's no gentleman. He's
nothing but a common gamekeeper, same
as uncle. But don't let us talk of him anymore.
It takes the flavour of the bacon
clean out of my mouth.'

The rest of the simple meal was performed
in silence, and then Mrs Barnes
gathered up the crockery and carried it
into an outer room to wash.

Larry and Lizzie were left alone. The
girl seemed to understand that in some
mysterious way she had offended her
cousin, and wished to restore peace between
them, so she crept up to where he
was smoking his midday pipe on the old
settle by the fire, and laid her head gently
against his knees. They had been brought
up from babes together, and were used to
observe such innocent little familiarities
towards each other.

'Never mind about the outing, Larry.
I'm not a bit disappointed, and I'm sorry I
said anything about it'

• That's not true, Liz. You are disappointed,
and it's my doing ; but I couldn't
help it. I didn't feel somehow as if I had
the heart to go. But I've changed my
mind since dinner, and we'll go up to the
harvest - home together, my girl. Will
that content you.^'

Oh, Larry ! you are good ! ' she said,
raising herself, her cheeks crimsoned with
renewed expectation; 'but I'd rather stop
at home a thousand times over than you
should put yourself out of the way forme.'


A sudden thought seemed to strike the
young man as he looked at Lizzie's fair,
sightless face. He had lived with her so
long, in a sisterly way, that it had never
struck him to regard her in any other light.
But something in the inflection of her voice
as she addressed him, made him wonder if
he were capable of making her happier
than she had ever been yet. He cherished
no other hopes capable of realisation.
What if he could make his own troubles
lighter by lightening those of poor Liz ?
Something of this sort, but in much rougher
clothing, passed through his half-tutored
mind. As it grasped the idea he turned
hurriedly towards the girl kneeling at his
knee.

Do you really care about me, lass ? ' he
said. ' Do you care if I'm vexed or not ?
Whether I come in or go out? If I like
my dinner or I don't like it ? Does all
this nonsense worry you ? Answer me,
for I want to know.'

Oh ! Larry, what do you mean ? Of

unSitv Of chamois

course I care. I can't do much for you —
more's the pity — without my poor eyes,
but I can think of you and love you,
Larry, and surely you know that I do
both.'

But would you like to love me more,
Liz?'

How could I love you more ? '

'Would you like to have the right to
care for me — the right to creep after me in
your quiet way wherever I might happen
to go — the right to walk alongside of me,
with your hand in mine, up to the harvesting
home to-night ; eh, Liz } '

The girl half understood her cousin's
meaning, but she was too modest not to
fear she might be mistaken. Larry could
never wish to take her, blind and helpless,
for his wife.

Larry, speak to me more plainly ; I
don't catch your meaning quite.'

Will you marry me then, Liz, and live
along of mother and me to the end of your
life?'

Marry you ! — Be your wife ! — Me !
Oh, Larry, you can't mean it ! never.'

I do mean it,' replied her cousin with
an oath ; * and I'll take you as soon as ever
you'll take me if you will but say the
Word.'

But I am blind, Larry.'

Do you suppose I don't know that ?
Perhaps I likes you blind best.'

But I am so useless. I get about so
slowly. If anything was to happen to
aunt, how could I keep the house clean
and cook the dinners, Larry '^. You must
think a bit more before you decide for good.'

But the poor child's face was burning
with excitement the while, and her sightless
eyes were thrown upwards to her
cousin's face as though she would strain
through the darkness to see it.

If anything happened to mother, do
you suppose I'd turn you out of doors, Liz ?
And in any case, then, I must have a wife
or a servant to do the work — it will make
no difference that way. The only question
is, do you want me for a husband ? '

Oh ! I have loved you ever so ! ' replied
the girl, throwing herself into his arms.
I couldn't love another man, Larry. I
know your face as well as if I had seen it,
and your step, and your voice. I can tell
them long before another body knows
there's sound a-coming.'

Then you'll have me ? '

If you'll have me' she murmured in a
tone of delight as she nestled against his
rough clothes.

That's settled, then, and the sooner the
banns are up the better! Here, mother!
Come along and hear the news. Lizzie
has promised to marry me, and I shall
take her to church as soon as we've been
cried.'

Well ! I am pleased,' said Mrs Barnes.
'You couldn't have got a neater wife,
Larry, though her eyesight's terribly against
her, poor thing! But I'm sure of one
thing, Liz, if you can't do all for him that
another woman might, you'll love my lad
with the best among them, and that thought
will make me lie quiet in my grave.'

The poor cannot afford the time to be
as sentimental over such things as the rich.
Larry kissed his cousin two or three times
on the forehead in signification of the compact
they had just entered into, and then
he got up and shook himself, and prepared
to go back to his afternoon work.

That's a good job settled,' he thought
as he did so ; 'it will make Lizzie happy,
and drive a deal of nonsense may be out of
my head. But if ever I can pay out that
scoundrel Darley I'll do it, if it costs me
the last drop of my blood.'

The blind girl regarded what had passed
between her cousin and herself with very
different feelings. Condemned, by reason

of her infirmity, to pass much of her young
life in solitude, the privation had repaid itself
by giving her the time and opportunity
for an amount of self-culture which,
if subjected to the rough toil and rougher
pleasures of her class, she never could have
attained. Her ideas regarding the sanctity
of love and marriage were very different
from those of other Cotton girls. She
could never have ' kept company,' as they
termed it, with one man this month and
another the next. Her pure mind, which
dwelt so much within itself, shrank from
the levity and coarseness with which she
had heard such subjects treated, and believing,
as she had done, that she should never
be married, she had pleased herself by
building up an ideal of what a husband
should be, and how his wife would love
and reverence him. And this ideal had
always had for its framework a fancied
portraits her cousin Laurence. In reality,
this young fellow was an average specimen
of a fresh-faced country youth, with plenty
of colour and flesh and muscle. But to
the blind girl's fancy he was perfection.
Her little hands from babyhood had traced
each feature of his face until she knew
every line by heart, and though she had
never acknowledged it even to herself, she

had been in love with him ever since she
was capable of understanding the meaning
of the term. So that although his proposal
to marry her had come as a great
surprise, it had also come as a great glory,
and set her heart throbbing with the pleasant
consciousness of returned affection.

She was in a flutter of triumph and
delight all the afternoon, whilst Larry was
attending to his horses, and hardly knew
how to believe in her own happiness.
Her aunt brushed and plaited her long hair
for her till it was as glossy and neat as
possible, and tied her new cherry-coloured
ribbon round the girl's throat that she
might not disgrace her son's choice at the
merry-making. And then Lizzie sat down
to wait for her affianced lover's return, the
proudest maid in Cotton. Larry came in
punctually for his tea, and the first thing
he did was to notice the improvement in
his little cousin's appearance ; and indeed
joy had so beautified her countenance that
she was a different creature from what she
had been on the sands that morning. The
apathy and indifference to life had disappeared,
and a bright colour bloomed in her
soft cheeks. As she tucked her hand
through her cousin's arm, and they set off
to walk together to Farmer Murray's ,

Mrs Barnes looked after them
with pride, and declared that if poor Liz
had only got her sight they would have
made the handsomest couple in the parish.
Larry was rather silent as they went upto
the barn together, but Liz was not
exigeante, and trotted by his side with an
air of perfect content. When they arrived
they found the place already full, but the
Equality' had not yet arrived, and until
they did so, no one ventured to do more
than converse quietly with his neighbour,
although the fiddlers from Wells were all
ready and only waiting a signal to strike
up. But in those days the working men
did not consider their festival complete
without the presence of the master, and
it would have been a sore affront if the
members and guests of the household had
not also joined them in order to open the
ball and set the liquor flowing. In these
days of Radicalism perhaps they find they
can get on just as well without them.
Larry still kept Lizzie's arm snugly tucked
within his own as he described to her how
beautiful the walls of the barn looked
hung with flags and decorated with flowers
and evergreens, and what a number of
lamps there were, and what a lot of liquor
and eatables were stowed away at the

further end. He was still talking to her
rapidly, and, as she imagined, somewhat
uneasily, when a cheer rose up from a
group of rustics outside, and Larry gave
a start that almost disengaged her from
his clasp.

What's the matter '^. ' she demanded.
Is it the gentry coming, Larry ? '

Yes ! 'tis they, sure enough. Keep
close to me, Liz — I don't want to part
from you, not for one moment.'

Oh, Larry ! that do make me feel so
happy,' she whispered. As she spoke, the
party from Mavis Farm entered the barn
and were received with a shout of welcome.
Mr Murray, a fine, hale old gentleman,
and his sons came first ; then Miss Rosa,
looking rather conscious, tripping after her
brothers in a white muslin dress. The
farmer advanced to the beer barrel, and
having filled his glass, drank success to
all present, and asked them to give three
cheers for a bountiful harvest. When
that ceremony was completed the fiddlers
struck up a merry country dance, and
every one was at liberty to drink and caper
about. The young people from Mavis
Farm all took part in the first dance, and
Rosa Murray came up and asked Larry
if he would be her partner on the occasion.

She ought in fairness to have opened the
ball with her father's bailiff or one of the
upper servants, but she preferred the
young groom, with whom she held daily-intercourse,
and she was accustomed to go
her own way without reference to anybody's
feelings. As she approached the cousins
she gave Lizzie a kindly welcome.

I am so glad you have come up, Lizzie ;
and now your cousin must get you a nice
seat until this dance is ended, for I intend
him to open the ball with me.'

This was considered a great honour on
the part of the villagers, and the blind girl
coloured with pleasure to think that her
fiancd had been selected for the ceremony.

Oh, Miss Rosa, you are good ! Larry,
why don't you thank the young lady, and
say how proud you shall be to dance alongside
of her ? '

But Larry said nothing. He reddened,
it is true, but more from confusion than
pleasure, and he was so long a time settling
Lizzie to his satisfaction, that Rosa was
disposed to be angry at his dilatoriness,
and called out to him sharply that if he
were not ready she should open the ball
with some one else. Then he ran and
took his place by her side, and went
through the evolutions of ' down the

middle ' and * setting at the corners ' with
a burning face and a fast-beating heart.
Poor Laurence Barnes! His young mistress's
constant presence in the stables and
familiarity with himself had been too much
for his susceptible nature. She was to
him, in the pride of her youthful loveliness
and the passport it afforded her for smiling
upon all classes of men, as an angel, rather
than a woman, something set too high
above for him ever to reach, but yet with
the power to thrill his veins and make his
hot blood run faster. The touch of her
unloved hand in the figures of the dance
made him tremble, and the glance of her
eyes sickened him, so that as soon as the
terrible ordeal was concluded he made her
an awkward salute, and rushed from her
side to that of the beer barrel, to drown
his excitement in drink. And it was just
there that he had left Lizzie Locke.

That was beautiful, Larry,' she exclaimed,
with glowing cheeks. * I could
hear the sound of your feet and Miss
Rosa's above all the others, even when you
went to the further end of the barn. It
must be lovely to be able to dance like
that. But it has made you thirsty, Larry.
That's the third glass, isn't it ? '

Yes, lass, it's made me thirsty. But

don't you keep counting my glasses all the
evening, or I shall move your chair a bit
further off.'

She laughed quietly, and he flung himself
upon the ground and rested his arm
upon her knee. He seemed to feel safer
and more at peace when by Lizzie's side,
and she was quite happy in the knowledge
that he was there. The Mavis Farm party
did not dance again after the ball had
been opened, at least Miss Rosa did not.
But she moved about the barn restlessly.
Sometimes she was in, and sometimes she
was out. She did not seem to know her
own mind for two minutes together.

Why is that fellow Darley skulking
about here, Larry?' demanded Isaac Barnes
of his nephew. ' I've seen his ugly face
peeping into the barn a dozen times. Why
don't he come in or stay out ? I hate
such half-and-half sneaking ways.'

Larry muttered an oath, and was about
to make some reply, when George Murray
came up to them.

Is that Mr Darley I see hanging about
the barn door, Isaac ? ' he inquired of their
own keeper.

That it be, Master George ; and as
I was just saying to Larry here, why
not in or out } What need of dodging ?

He don't want to catch no one here, I
suppose ? '

He'd better try. I'd soon teach him
who the barn belongs to.'

'And I'd back you, Master George,'
cried Larry resolutely. The strong-brewed
Norfolk ale was giving him a dash of
Dutch courage.

Would you, Larry ? That's right !
Well, I can't be in all parts of the barn
at once, and father wants me to take the
bottom of the supper-table, so you keep
your eye on Mr Darley for me, will you ?
and if he looks up to anything, let me
know.'

I'm your man, Master George,' replied
Larry heartily.

Rosa was near enough to them to overhear
what had passed. Her brother had
intended she should do so. But when he
set his wit against that of a woman he
reckoned without his host. Rosa had
been on the look-out for Frederick Darley
from the beginning of the evening, and
during the first greeting, had managed to
slip a little note into his hand, warning
him of her brother's animosity, and begging
him to keep as much as possible out of
their sight until an opportunity occurred
for her joining him in the apple copse

J

Now, she felt afraid of what might happen
if there were an encounter between the
two young men, and decided at once that
her best plan would be, as soon as she
saw George safely disposed of at the
supper-table, to tamper with his spy. And
unfortunately Rosa Murray knew but too
well how to accomplish this. Young
Barnes' infatuation had not been unnoticed
by her. She would have been aware of
it if a cat had admired her. She knew
his hand trembled when he took her foot
to place her in the saddle, and that he
became so nervous and agitated when she
entered the stable as often to have to be
recalled to a sense of his duty by a sharp
rebuke from the head groom. She had
known it all for months past, and it had
pleased her. She was so vain and heartless
that she thought nothing of what pain
the poor fellow might be undergoing. She
laughed at his presumption, and only considered
it another feather in her cap. But
now she saw her way to make use of it.
The dancing had recommenced, and was
proceeding with vigour, and the huge
rounds of beef and legs of mutton on the
supper-table were beginning to be served
out. George was in full action, leading
the onslaught with his carving-knife,

when Rosa Murray approached Laurence
Barnes.

Won't you dance again, nor go and
have your supper, Larry dear ? ' Lizzie
was asking, with a soft caress of her hand
upon the head laid on her knee.

I don't want to dance no more,' said
Larry, ' and I shan't sup till the table's
clearer and you can sup with me, Liz.'

That's very good of you, Barnes,' said
Rosa, who had caught the words ; ' but
if you'll take Lizzie to the table now, I'm
sure George will find room for you both.'

No thank you, miss,' he answered ; ' I
promised Master George to bide here till
he came back, and I mustn't break my
word.'

Then I shall sit here with you, and
we'll all have supper together by-and-by,'
replied Rosa. ' Have you been gathering
cockles again this afternoon, Lizzie.'

Oh no, miss ! ' said Lizzie, blushing at
the recollection of how her afternoon had
been employed ; ' it's high tide at four
o'clock now, and I haven't been out of
the house again to-day.'

Did your cousin tell you how she
scolded me for riding in the salt marshes,
Barnes ? '

Well ! it is dangerous, miss, for such as

don't know the place. I mind me when
Whisker's grandfather strayed out there by
himself — '

Oh, Larry ! ' cried Lizzie, ' don't go to
tell that terrible tale. It always turns me
sick ! '

Is that what they call the Marsh Ghost,
Barnes .^ Oh ! I must know all about it.
I love ghost stories, and I have never been
able to hear the whole of this one. Where
does it appear, and when ? '

Lizzie here can tell you better than me,
miss — she knows the story right through.'

It's a horrible tale, ^vliss Rosa. You'll
never forget it, once heard.'

That's just why I want to hear it ; so,
Lizzie, you must tell it me directly. Don't
move, Barnes, you don't inconvenience me.
I can sit up in this corner quite well'

Well, miss, if you midst hear it,' began
the blind girl, ' it happened now nigh upon
twenty years ago. Whisker's grandfather,
that used to keep the lodge at Rooklands,
had grown so old and feeble the late lord
pensioned him off and sent him home to
his own people. He hadn't no son in
Cotton then, miss, because they was both
working in the south, but his daughter-in-law,
his first son's giddy, that had married
Skelton the baker, she offered to take the

VOL. II. E

old man in and do for him. Lord
Worcester allowed him fifty pounds a-year
for life, and Mrs Skelton wanted to take
it all for his keep, but the old man was too
sharp for that, and he only gave her ten
shillings a- week and put by the rest, no one
knew where nor for what. Well, miss, this
went on for three or four years may be, and
then poor Whisker had grown very feeble
and was a deal of trouble, and his sons
didn't seem to be coming back, and the
Skeletons had grown tired of him, so they
neglected him shamefully. I shouldn't like
to tell you, miss, all that's said of their
beating the poor old man and starving him,
and never giving him no comforts. At
last he got quite silly and took to wandering
about alone, and he used to go out on
the marshes, high or low tide, without any
sense of the danger, and everybody said
he'd come to harm some day. And so he
did, for one day they carried his body in
from Cotton Point quite dead, and all
bruised with the rocks and stones. The
Skeletons pretended as they knew nothing
about how he'd come to his death, but they
set up a cart just afterwards, and nothing
has ever been heard of the old man's store
of money, though his sons came back and
inquired and searched far and near for it.

But about six months after — Larry ! 'isn't
a fit tale for Miss Rosa to listen to ! '

Nonsense, Lizzie ! I wouldn't have the
ghost left out for anything. It's just that
I want to hear of.'

Well, miss, as I said, six months after
old Whisker's death he been to walk ao^ain,
and he's walked ever since.'

Where does he walk ? '

Round and round Cotton Point every
full moon, wringing his hands and asking
for his money. They say it's terrible to
see him.'

Have you ever seen him, Barnes ? '
Larry coloured deeply and shook his
head. The peasantry all over England are
very susceptible to superstition, and the
Cotton folk were not behindhand in their
fear of ghosts, hobgoblins, and apparitions
of all sorts. This young fellow would have
stood up in a fight with the best man there,
but the idea of seeing a ghost made his
blood curdle.

Dear me, miss, no,' said Lizzie, answering
for him, ' and I hope he never may.
Why, it would kill him.'

Nonsense, Lizzie. Barnes is not such
a coward, I hope.'

Something in Miss Murray's tone made
the blood leap to her retainer's face.

I'm not a coward, miss he answered
quickly.

Of course not ; I said so. But any man
would be so who refused to go to Cotton
Point by night for fear of seeing old
Whisker's ghost. He walks at full moon,
you say ! Why, he must be at it to-night,
then ! There never was a lovelier moon.'

Don't, miss,' urged Lizzie, shivering.

You silly goose ! I don't want you to
go. But, I must say, I should like to try
the mettle of our friend here.'

I beg your pardon, miss ; did you mean
that for me } ' said Larry quickly.

Yes, I did, Barnes. What harm ? I
should like to see some one who had really
seen this ghost, and I'll give my gold watch
chain to the man who will go to Cotton
Point to-night and bring me a bunch
of the samphire that grows upon the top
of it'

Larry's mind was in a tumult. Some
wild idea of rendering himself admirable in
Rosa Murray's eyes may have influenced
his decision — or the delight of possessing
her watch chain may have urged him on toit
Anyway, he rose up from the floor, and
with chattering teeth, but a resolute heart,
exclaimed, —

I'll take you at your word, miss. I'll

go to Cotton Point and bring you the
samphire, and prove to you that Larry
Barnes is not a coward.'

Larry, Larry, you'll never do it ! ' cried
Lizzie.

Let me alone, my girl. I've made up
my mind, and you won't turn it.'

You are a brave fellow, Barnes,' said
Rosa. ' I believe you're the only man in
Cotton that would have taken my wager.
And, mind, it's a bargain. My gold watch
chain for your bunch of samphire and news
of old Whisker's ghost.' She was delighted
at the idea of getting him out of
the way.

'But, Larry! Miss Rosa! Think of
the danger,' implored poor Lizzie. ' Oh,
he'll never come back ; I know he'll never
come back.'

What are you afraid of, Lizzie ? Doesn't
Barnes know the sands as well as you do ?
And the moonlight is as bright as day.
It's silly to try and stop him.'

But he's going to be my husband, miss,'
whispered Lizzie, weeping, into Miss
Murray's ear.

Oh ! if that's the case, perhaps he'd
better follow your wishes,' rejoined Rosa
coldly. ' Mine are of no consequence, of
course, though I'd have liked Barnes to

wear my chain — we've been such good
company together, haven't we, Larry ? '

Her smile, and the way in which she
spoke his name, determined him. He had
heard the whispered conversation between
her and Lizzie, and he felt vexed — he
didn't know why — that it should have
occurred.

Be quiet, Liz,' he said, authoritatively.
What's to be has nothing to do with this.
I'm only too glad to oblige Miss Rosa,
even with a bit of samphire. Good-bye,
my girl, and good-bye, miss ; it's close
upon the stroke of ten, so you mayn't seeme
again till tomorrow morning ; but
when you do, it'll be with the bunch of
samphire in my hand ! '

He darted away from them as he spoke,
and left the barn ; whilst Lizzie Locke,
disappointed at his departure, and frightened
for his safety, wept bitterly. But the
noise around them was so great, and everyone
was so much occupied with his or her
own pleasure, that little notice was taken
of the girl's emotion.

Come, Lizzie, don't be foolish,' urged
Miss Murray, in a whisper, afraid lest the
errand on which she had sent Larry should
become public property. ' Your lover will
be back in an hour, at the latest.'

He'll never come back, miss! You've
sent him to his death ; I feel sure of it,'
replied Lizzie, sobbing.

'This is too ridiculous,' said Rosa. ' If
you intend to make such a fool of yourself
as this, Lizzie, I think you had much
better go home to your aunt. Shall I send
Jane Williams back with you ^. You know
her ; she's a kind girl, and shell lead you
as safely as Larry would.'

No ; thank you, miss ; Larry said he
would return to the barn with your samphire,
and I must wait here till he comes
if ever he comes,' she added mournfully.

Well, you've quite upset me with all
this nonsense, and I must have a breath
of fresh air. If master George, or papa,
should ask for me, Lizzie, say I've got a
headache, and gone home for a little while.
I'll be round again before Larry's back ;
but if anything should keep me, tell him
he shall have the chain tomorrow morning.
For he's a brave fellow, Lizzie, and
whether he sees the ghost or not, he
shall keep my watch chain as a wedding
present.'

She patted the blind girl's hand before
she tripped away ; but no amount of encouragement
could have driven the conviction
from Lizzie Locke's breast that her

lover was a doomed man ; and added to
this, she had an uncomfortable feeling in
her heart (though too undefined to be
called jealousy), that his alacrity in complying
with his 3'Oung mistress's request arose
from something more than a desire to
maintain his character for courage in her
eyes. So the poor child sat by the beer
barrel, sad and silent, with her face buried
in her hands ; and so she remained till
midnight had sounded from the church
clock, and the lights were put out, and the
festivities concluded, and some kind neighbour
led her back to her aunt's house.
But neither Miss Rosa nor Larry had
returned.

Miss Rosa's ' breath of fresh air' meant,
of course, her appointment with Frederick
Darley in the apple copse. She had got
Larry nicely out of the way (notwithstanding
the fears of his betrothed), and there
was no obstacle in her path as she left the
barn and approached the place of meeting.
She had taken the precaution to wrap a
large dark shawl round her white dress,
and, thus concealed, crept softly down the
lane and through the lower meadow unobservant
or unheeding that her father's
terrier, Trim, had followed her footsteps.

Mr Darley was in waiting for her, and a
lover-like colloquy ensued. He did not
again mention the subject of marriage, at
which Rosa was somewhat disappointed ;
for she believed that, notwithstanding her
brother's assertions to the contrary, Mr
Murray might not refuse his consent to her
becoming Frederick Darley's wife ; and he
certainly was the handsomest man roundabout,
Lord Worcester himself not excepted.
But in the midst of their tender conversation,
as Darley was telling Rosa he loved her
better than ever man had loved woman in
this world before, Trim commenced wagging
his tail and snuffing the grass.

What is the matter ? ' cried Rosa In
alarm. * Down, Trim, down — be quiet,
sir ! Oh, Frederick ! surely no one can becoming
this way.'

Don't be afraid,' said her companion ;
throw your shawl over your head and
trust to me. I will answer for it that no
one shall molest you whilst under my
protection.'

But he had not calculated upon having
to make his words good in the presence of
her father and brother.

Trim would not lie down, nor be quiet,
but kept on with his little signals of warning:,
until two dark figures could be discerned

making their way towards them
over the grass, when he bounded away to
meet them. Rosa guessed who the newcomers
must be, and her heart died within
her for fear. She would have screamed,
but Darley placed his hand before her
mouth. There was no escape for the
lovers, even if an attempt to escape would
not have increased suspicion, for the apple
copse was a three-cornered field that had
but the one entrance through which they
had come. In another moment the four
had met, and Rosa recognised her father
and her brother George. How they had
guessed they would find her there she did
not stay to ask or even think. All her
thought was how to shield herself from the
farmer's anger. The fact was that George
had wished to seat his sister at the supper-table,
when, finding that she and Darley
and Larry had all three mysteriously disappeared,
he had communicated his suspicions
and the events of the morning to his
father, and they had sallied forth together
in search of the missing daughter, and were
on their way to the farm, where they had
been told she had gone, when Trim's unwarrantable
interference led them to the
very spot.

Mr Murray's rage was unbounded. He

did not wait for any explanations, but
walked up straight to Rosa and demanded,
—

Is this my daughter ? '

The girl was too frightened to speak as
she clung to her lover's arm, but Darley,
perceiving that an amicable settlement was
out of the question, replied in the same
tone, —

What right have you to ask, sir ? '

The right of a father, Mr Darley, who
has no intention to let disgrace be brought
into his family by such as you.'

He pulled Rosa by the arm roughly ashe
spoke, and dragged the shawl from her
face.

So it is you, you jade ; and you would
try and deceive your father, who has never
refused you a thing in his life. That's the
gratitude of women. However, you'll pay
for it. You've had your first clandestine
meeting and your last. No more gamekeeper's
courtships for you if I know it.'

By what right, Mr Murray, do you
insult me, or this young lady, in my
presence ? If I have persuaded her to doa
foolish thing, I am sorry for it, but you
cannot give a harsher name to a lover s
moonlight walk.'

I do give it a harsher name, sir, and

you know It deserves it. A lover's moonlight
walk indeed ! You mean a scoundrel's
endeavour to get an innocent girl into his
clutches.'

Papa ! papa ! you are quite mistaken.
Mr Darley has asked me to marry him.
He will marry me tomorrow by special
licence if you will only give your consent.'

Marry you tomorrow ! you poor fool !
You've been swallowing every lie he chose
to tell you. He can't marry you tomorrow
nor any day, and for a good reason. Thes
a marched man already

Rosa screamed, George uttered an oath,
and Darley darted forward.

Who told you so, Mr Murray ? '

Never mind who told me ; you know
it is true. Can you deny that you left a
wife down south when you came to Rook-lands
? Lord Worcester does not know it,
perhaps, but there are those who do.'

Who is your informant ? ' repeated
Darley.

I shall not tell you ; but if you don't
clear out of my meadow and Cotton within
half-an-hour, and promise never to show
your face here again, I'll lay the whole
story before his lordship.'

Are you going, or shall I kick you out ? '
inquired George.

Frederick Darley thought upon the
whole he'd better go. He turned on his
heel with an oath, and slunk out of the
apple copse like a beaten cur.

Come, my girl,' said Farmer murray,
not unkindly, as he commenced to walk
homeward, with his hand still on Rosa's
arm ; ' you've been a fool, but I hope
you've been nothing worse. Never see
nor speak to the man again, and I'll
forgive you.'

Oh, papa ! is it really true } ' she answered,
sobbing.

It's as true as Heaven, Rosa! It was
Larry Barnes told it me a week ago, and
he had it from one of the Whiskers, who
worked near Lord Worcester's estate in
Devon, and knew Mrs Frederick Darley
by sight. You've had a narrow escape,
my girl, and you may thank Larry for
it.'

Poor Larry ! ' sighed Rosa ; and if she
could have known what was happening
to poor Larry at that moment, she would
have sighed still deeper. He had accepted
her wager, and rushed off at her
bidding to get the bunch of samphire that
grew at the top of Cotton Point. His
brain was rather staggered at the idea
of what he had undertaken, but he had

been plentifully plied with Farmer Murray's
Old October," and it was a bright,
moonlight night, so that he did not find
the expedition after all so terrible as he
had imagined. The salt marshes were
very lonely, it is true, and more than
once Larry turned his head fearfully over
his shoulder, to find that nothing worse
followed him than his own shadow ; but
he reached the Point in safety, and secured
the samphire, without having encountered
old Whisker's ghost. Then
his spirits rose again, and he whistled ashe
commenced to retrace his steps to the
village. He knew he had been longer
over the transaction than he had expected,
and that he should be unable to see
Miss Rosa that night ; but he intended to
be up at the farm the very first thing in
the morning, and give the bunch of
samphire into her own hands. He did
not expect to receive the watch chain ; he
had not seen the ghost, and had not
earned it ; but Larry's heart was all the
lighter for that. He would not have
exchanged a view of the dreaded spectre
even for the coveted gold chain that had
hung so long round the fair neck of his
divinity. But as he turned Cotton Point
again, he started back to see a figure

before him. The first moment he thoiieht
it must be old Whisker's ghost, but the
next convinced him of his error. It was
only Mr Darley — Lord Worcester's gamekeeper
! He had been so absorbed in
angry and remorseful thought since he
left the apple copse that he had unwittingly
taken the wrong turning, and now
found himself upon the wide, desolate
waste of the salt marshes, and rather
uncertain on which side to find the beaten
track again which led to the road to
Rooklands. The two men were equally
surprised and disgusted at encountering
one another.

What are you doing here ? ' demanded
Darley, insolently.

'What business is that of yours?'
replied the other. ' The salt marshes
belong to me, I suppose, as much as they
do to you.'

You're not likely to have business hereat
this time of night. You've been
dogging my footsteps,' said Darley, without
the least consideration for probability.


Follow you ! ' exclaimed Larry, with a
big oath ; * it would be a long time before
I'd take the trouble to care what happened
to you. And since you ask my business

here, pray what may yours be ? You
didn't think to find Farmer Murray's
daughter in the marshes at twelve o'clock
at night, did you ? '

You insolent hound ! how dare you
take that young lady's name upon your
lips in my presence ? '

I've as good a right to name her as
you have — perhaps better. It was at her
bidding I came here to-night. Did she
send you here, too ? '

I shall not condescend to answer your
question nor to link our names together.
Do you know what you are ?'

I know what you are, Mr Darley, and
that's a villain ! '

Poor Larry had said he would have it
out with him, and he thought his time had
come. A sudden thought flashed through
Darley's brain that here was the informer
who had stopped his little game with the
farmer's pretty daughter.

Are you the man,' he demanded
fiercely, ' who has thought fit to inform
Mr Murray of my antecedents ? '

Antecedents ' was a long word for
Larry's comprehension, but he grasped the
meaning somehow.

If you'd say, am I the man who told
the master that you have got a wife and

children down in Devonshire, I answer
Yes ; " and I hope he's told you of it, and
kicked you out of the barn to-night for a
scoundrel, as you are, to try and make love
to his daughter.'

You brute ! ' cried Darley, throwing off
his coat ; ' I'll be revenged on you for this
if there's any strength left in my arm.'

All right,' replied the young countryman
; ' I've longed to punch your head
many and many a day. I'm glad it's
come at last. There's plenty of room for
us to have it out here, and the devil take
the hindmost.'

He flew at his adversary as he spoke,
and fastened his hands on to his coat-collar.
Larry was the younger and the
stronger built man of the two ; but Frederick
Darley had had the advantage of a
politer education, in which the use of his
lists was included, so that after a very
little while it would have been evident to
any bystander that Barnes was getting
the worst of it. He had energy and
muscle and right on his side, but his
antagonist, unfortunately, possessed the
skill, and after he had stood on the defensive
four or five times, he seized his
opportunity, and with a dexterous twist
threw Larry heavily from him on the

VOL. II. F

ground. The young man fell backward,
crashing his skull against a projecting
fragment of rock, and then lay there,
bleeding and unconscious. Darley glanced
around him — not a creature was in sight.
The broad harvest moon looked down
placidly upon the deed of blood he had
just committed, but human eyes to see it
there were none. Finding that Barnes
neither stirred nor groaned, he stooped
down after a while, and laid his hand upon
his heart. It had stopped beating. The
body was getting cold. The man was
dead !

Darley had not intended this, and it
alarmed him terribly. His first idea was
what he should do to secure his own
safety. If he left the body there, would
it be discovered, and the guilt traced home
to him, or would the in-coming tide carry
it out to sea, and wash it up again, weeks
hence perhaps, as a drowned corpse upon
the shore ? He thought it might. He
hoped it would. He remembered Larry's
words, that Miss Rosa had sent him there
that night. It was known, then, that he
had gone to the marshes, and the fact was
favourable.

He dragged the corpse a little way
upon the sands that it might the sooner

be covered by the water ; but finding it
left deep traces of its progress, he Ht'ted
it with some difficulty upon his shoulders,
and after carrying it perhaps a couple of
dozen yards towards the sea, flung it withall
his force before him. What was his
amazement at seeing the body immediately
sink in what appeared to be the solid
ground, and disappear from view ? Was
it mao^ic, or did his senses deceive him ?
Darley rubbed his eyes once or twice, but
the miracle remained the same. The sand,
with its smooth, shining surface, was before
him, but the corpse of Larry Barnes
had vanished. With a feeling of the
keenest relief — such relief as the cowardly
murderer who has cheated the gallows
must experience — the gamekeeper settled
his clothes, glanced once or twice fearfully
around him, and then, retracing his steps,
ran until he had gained the high road to
Rooklands. But retribution dogged his
murderous feet, and he was destined never
to reach his master's home. When the
morning dawned upon Cotton, a fearful
tale was going the round of its cottages.
The dead body of Lord Worcester's gamekeeper
had been found on the borders of
the estate, shot through the heart, as
it was supposed, in an encounter with

poachers, as traces of a fierce struggle
were plainly visible around him.

And Laurence Barnes was missing I
The two circumstances put together
seemed to provide a solution of the mystery.
Everyone in Cotton knew that
poor Larry had not been entirely free
from the suspicion of poaching, and most
people had heard him abuse Frederick
Darley, and vow to have vengeance upon
him. What more likely, then, that Larry,
having been taken at his old tricks, had
discharged his rusty gun at the gamekeeper,
and sent him out of the world to
answer for all his errors. This was the
light by which Cotton folk read the undiscovered
tragedy. All, that is to say,
but two, and those two were the deadman's
mother and his betrothed, who knew
of his visit to the Point, and fully believed
that old Whisker had carried him off.

The murder of Frederick Darlev made
quite a sensation in Cotton. Lord Worcester
gave his late gamekeeper a handsome
funeral, and monument in the churchyard
; and Rosa Murray lost her spirits
and her looks, and wore a black ribbon
on her bonnet for three months, although
she dared not let her father know the
reason why. But Darley had been so

generally disliked that, when the first
horror at his death had subsided, people
began to think he was a very good riddance,
and though Rosa still looked grave
if anyone mentioned his name, there was
a certain young farmer who rode over from
Wells to see her every Sunday, on whom
the gossips said she seemed to look with
considerable favour. And so, in due course
of time, the name of Darley appeared
likely to become altogether forgotten.

But not so Larry Barnes. Larry was a
native of Cotton, and had been a general
favourite there, and his mother still lived
amongst them to keep his memory green.
No one in the village thought Larry was
dead, except Lizzie and Mrs Barnes. The
rustics believed that, finding he had shot
Darley, he had become alarmed and ran
away — left the country, perhaps, in one of
the numerous fishing smacks that infest
the coast, and gone to make his fortune
in the ' Amerikys.' Larry would come
back some day — they were assured of
that — when the present lord was dead and
gone, perhaps, and the whole affair was
forgotten ; but they were certain he was
alive, simply because they were. But
Lizzie Locke knew otherwise — Lizzie
Locke, to whom a glimpse of heaven had

been opened the day of his death, and
to whom the outer life must be as dark
as the inner henceforward. She mourned
for Larry far more than his mother did.
Mrs Barnes had lived the best part of her
life, and her joys and her sorrows were
well-nigh over, but the poor blind girl had
only waked up to a consciousness of what
life might hold for her on the awful day
on which hope seemed blotted out forever.
From the moment her cousin left
the barn at Rosa's bidding, Lizzie drooped
like a faded flower. That he never returned
from that fatal quest was no surprise
to her. She had known that he would
never return. She had waited where he
had left her till all the merry-making was
over, and then she had gone home to her
aunt, meek, repining, but certain of her
doom. She had never been much of a
talker, but she seldom opened her mouth,
except it was absolutely necessary, after
that day. But she would take her basket
whenever the tide was low, and walk down
to Cotton Point and sit there — sometimes
gathering cockles, but oftener talking to
the dead, and telling him how much she
had loved him. The few who had occasionally
overheard her soliloquies said
they were uncanny, and that Lizzie Locke

I

i

was losing her wits as well as her eyes.
But the blind girl never altered her course.
Cotton Point became her home, and whenever
it was uncovered by the tide, she
might be seen sitting there beside her
cockle basket, waiting for — she knew not
what, talking to — she knew not whom.

The autumn had passed, and the winter
tides had set in. Rosa Murray never rode
upon the Cotton marshes now — she was
more pleasantly engaged traversing the
leafless lanes with the young farmer from
Wells. Most people would have thought
the fireside a better place to mourn one's
dead by than out on the bleak marsh ; yet
Lizzie Locke, despite her cotton clothing
and bare head, still took her way there
every morning, her patient, sightless eyes
refusing to reveal the depths of sorrow
that lay beneath them. One day, however.
Mrs Barnes felt disposed to be impatient
with the girl. She had left the house at
eight o'clock in the morning and had not
returned home since, and now it was dark,
and the neighbours began to say it was
not safe that Lizzie should remain out
alone on such a bitter nio^ht, and that her
aunt should enforce her authority to prevent
such lengthy rambles. Two or three

of the men went out with lanterns to try
and find her, but returned unsuccessful,
and they supposed she must have taken
shelter at some friend's house for the night.
Lizzie Locke knew the marshes well, they
said (no one in Cotton better), and would
never be so foolish as to tempt Providence
by traversing them in the dark, for the
currents were at their worst now, and the
quicksands were shifting daily. The logs
and spars of a ruined wreck of a year before
had all come to the surface again within a
few days, and with them a keg of pork,
preserved by the saline properties of the
ground in which it had been treasured, so
that its contents were as fresh as though
they had been found yesterday. Inquiries
were made for the blind girl throughout
the village, but no one had seen anything
of her, and all that her friends could do
was to search for her the first thing in the
morning, when a large party set out for
Cotton Point, Mrs Barnes amongst them.
Their faces were sad, for they had little
hope that the cruel tide had not crawled
over the watching girl before she was
aware of it, and carried her out to sea.
But as they neared the Point they discovered
something still crouched upon the
sand.

It can't be Lizzie.* said the men, drawing
closer to each other, though a bright,
cold sun was shining over the February
morning. * It can't be nothing mortal,
sitting there in the frost, with the icy waves
lapping over its feet.'

But Mrs Barnes, who had rushed forward,
waved her arms wildly, and called
to them, —

'It's him! It's my Larry, washed up
again by the sands ; and poor Lizzie has
found him out by the touch of her finger.'

The men ran up to the spot, and looked
upon the sight before them. The corpse
of Larry Barnes, with not so much as a
feature changed by the hand of Time —
with all his clothes intact and whole, and a
bunch of samphire in his breast — lay out
upon the shining sands, stiff as marble, but
without any trace of decomposition upon
his fresh young features and stalwart limbs.*
And beside him, with her cheek bowed
down upon his own, knelt Lizzie Locke.
Lizzie, who had braved the winter's frost,
and withstood the cold of a February night,
in order to watch beside the recovered
body of her lover.

This is a fact, the corpse of a fisherman having been
preserved in like manner for some nine months when
buried in the salt marshes of Norfolk.

Lizzie. ! ' exclaimed Mrs Barnes. * Lookup
now ; I've come to comfort thee ! Let
us thank Heaven that he's found again,
and the evil words they spoke of him must
be took back.'

But the blind girl neither spoke nor
stirred.

Can't thee answer, my lass ? ' said
Isaac the poacher, as he shook her by
the arm.

The answer that she made was by falling
backwards and disclosing her fair, gentle
face — white and rigid as her lover's.

Merciful God ! she is dead ! ' they
cried.

Yes, they were right. She was dead —
she was at rest. What she had waited for
she had found. What she had striven for
she had gained. How many of us can say
the same ? Larry had been restored to
her. The shifting quicksand had thrown
him upon earth again, and had she not
been there, his body might have been
washed out to sea, and no further knowledge
gained of his fate. But she had
saved his dust for consecrated ground —
more, she had saved his character for the
healing of his mother's heart. For in his
breast there still reposed the bunch of
samphire he had perilled his life to gather

for the farmers daughter, and, grasped
tight in his hand, they found the neckcloth
of Lord Worcester's gamekeeper — a crimson,
silk neckcloth, recognised by all three
—and which Larry had seized and held in
the last deadly struggle. And the men of
Cotton looked on it and knew the truth
that their comrade was no murderer, but
had fallen where he was found in a quarrel
(probably pre-arranged) with Frederick
Darley ; and they cursed the gamekeeper
in their hearts.

But Lizzie was at rest — happy Lizzie
Locke ! sleeping in the quiet churchyard
at Cotton, with her cheek pillowed on her
Larry's breast.

THE END.



!N the banks of the Wye, Monmouthshire.
— To be Let, furnished,
a commodious Family
Mansion, surrounded with park-like
grounds. Stabling and every convenience.
Only two and a-half miles from
station, church, and post-office. Excellent
fishing to be procured in the neighbourhood.
Rent nominal to a responsible
tenant.'

Such, with a few trifling additions, was
the advertisement that caught my eye in
the spring of i8 — .

My dear Jane,' I said, as I handed the
paper over to my wife, ' this, I think, is
the very thing we want.'

I was a London practitioner, with a
numerous family and a large circle of
patients ; but the two facts, though blessings
in themselves, were not without their
disadvantages.

The hostages which I had given to
fortune had made that strenuous action
which attention to my numerous patients
supplied incumbent on me ; but the consequent
anxiety and want of rest had drawn
so largely on my mental and physical
resources, that there was no need for my
professional brethren to warn me of the
necessity of change and country air. I
felt myself that I was breaking down, and
had already made arrangements with a
friend to take my practice for a few
months, and set me at liberty to attend to
my own health. And being passionately
fond of fishing, and all country pleasures
and pursuits, and looking forward with zest
to a period of complete quiet, the residence
alluded to (if it fulfilled the promise of its
advertisement) appeared to be all that I
could desire.

Park-like grounds ! ' exclaimed my wife,
with animation. * How the dear children
will enjoy themselves.'

And two and a-half miles from church
or station,' I responded eagerly. * No

neighbours, excellent fishing, and at a
nominal rent. It sounds too good to be
true.'

• Oh, Arthur ! you must write, and obtain
all the particulars this very day. If you
put it off, some one will be sure to take
the house before we have time to do so.'

I shall go and see the city agents at
once,' I replied, resolutely. ' It is too rare
an opportunity to be lost. Only, don't
raise your hopes too high, my dear. Advertisements
are apt to be deceptive.'

But when I had seen Messrs Quibble &
Lye on the subject, it really seemed as
though for once they had spoken the truth.
Rushmere, the house in question, had been
built and furnished lor his own use by an
old gentleman, who died shortly afterwards,
and his heirs, not liking the situation,
had placed the property in the agents'
hands for letting. The owners were
wealthy, cared little for money, and had
authorised the assents to let the house on
any reasonable terms, and it was really a
bargain to anyone that wanted it. The
frankly admitted that the loneliness of the
position of Rushmere was the reason of its
cheapness ; but when I heard the rent at
which they offered to let me take it, it
approved of, for three months, I was quite

ready to agree with Messrs Quibble &
Lye in their idea of a bargain, and that,
for those who Heed solitude, Rushmere
offered extraordinary advantages.

Armed with the necessary authority, I
found my way down into Monmouthshire, to
inspect the premises on the following day ;
and when I saw Rushmere, I felt still more
disposed to be surprised at the opportunity
afforded me, and to congratulate myself on
the promptitude with which I had embraced
it. I found it to be a good-sized country
house, comfortably furnished, and, to all
appearance, well built, standing in enclosed
grounds, and on a healthy elevation ; but,
notwithstanding its isolated situation, I
was too much a man of the world to believe,
under the circumstances, that its greatest
disadvantage lay in that fact. Accordingly,
I peered eagerly about for damp
walls, covered cesspools, unsteady joists,
or tottering foundations, but I could find
none.

The chimneys smoke, I suppose .'^ ' I
remarked, in a would-be careless tone, to
the old woman whom I found in charge of
the house, and who crept after me whereever
I went.

Chimneys smoke, sir ? Not as I knows
of.'

The roof leaks, perhaps ? '

Deary me, no. You won't find a spot
of damp, look where you may.'

Then there's been a fever, or some
Infectious disorder in the house } '

A fever, sir ? Why, the place has been
empty these six months. The last tenants
left at Christmas.'

Empty for six months ! ' I exclaimed.
How long is It, then, since the gentleman
who built it died ? '

Old Mr Bennett, sir ? He's been dead
a matter of fifteen years or more.'

'Indeed! Then why don't the owners
of the place sell it, instead of letting it
stand vacant ? ' thought I to myself.

But I did not say so to the old woman,
who was looking up in my face, as though
anxious to learn what my decision would
be.

No vermin, I hope ? ' I suggested, as a
last resource. ' You are not troubled with
rats or mice at night, are you V

Oh, I don't sleep here at night, sir,
thank heaven ! ' she answered in a manner
which appeared to me unnecessarily energetic.
' I am only employed by day to air
the house, and show it to strangers. I go
home to my own people at night.'

And where do your people live .'^ '

VOL. II. G

Better than half a mile from here, sir,
and ours is the nearest cottage to Rush-mere.'


And then — apprehensive, perhaps, that
her information might prove a drawback
to the letting of the property — she added,
quickly, —

Not but what it's a nice place to live
in, is Rushmere, and very convenient,
though a bit lonesome.'

I perfectly agreed with her, the 'lonesomeness'
of the situation proving no
detraction in my eyes.

On my return to London I gave my
wife so glowing a description of the house
and its surroundings, that she urged me to
conclude the bargain at once ; and, in the
course of a few weeks, I and my family
were transplanted from the purlieus of
Bayswater to the banks of the Wye. It
was the middle of May when we took possession,
and the country wore its most
attractive garb. The children were wild
with delight at being let loose in the flower-spangled
fields, and, as I watched the
tributaries of the river, and perceived the
excellent sport they promised me, I felt
scarcely less excited than the children.
Only my wife, I thought, became inoculated
with some of the absurd fears of the

domestics we had brought with us from
town, and seemed to consider the locality
more lonely and unprotected than she had
expected to find it.

It's a charming place, Arthur,' she acknowledged,
' and marvellously cheap ; but
it is certainly a long way from other houses.
I find we shall have to send for everything
to the town. Not even the country carts,
with butter and poultry, seem to call at
Rushmere.'

My dear Jane, I told you distinctly that
it was two and a-half miles from church or
station, and you read it for yourself in the
paper. But I thought we looked out for a
retreat where we should run no risk of
being intruded on by strangers.'

Oh yes, of course ; only there are riot
even any farmhouses or cottages near
Rushmere, you see ; and it would be so
very easy for anyone to break in at night,
and rob us.'

Pooh, nonsense ! What Avill you be
afraid of next ? The locks and bolts are
perfectly secure, and both Dawson and I
have firearms, and are ready to use them.
Your fears are childish, Janie.'

But all my arguments were unavailing,
and each day my wife grew more nervous,
and less willing to be left alone. So much

so, indeed, that I made a practice of seeing
that the house fastenings were properly
secured each night myself, and of keeping
a loaded revolver close to my hand, in case
of need. But it damped my pleasure to
find that Jane was not enjoying herself;
and the country looked less beautiful to me
than it had done at first. One night I
suddenly awoke, to find that she was
sitting up in bed, and in an attitude of expectation.


My dear, what is the matter with you ? '

Oh, hush ! I am sure that I hear footsteps
on the stairs — footsteps creeping up
and down.'

I listened with her, but could detect no
sound whatever.

Lie down again, Jane — it is only your
imagination. Every one is fast asleep in
bed.'

I assure you, Arthur, I am not mistaken.
Once they came quite near the
door.'

If so, it can only be one of the servants.
You don't wish me to get up and encounter
Mary or Susan in her night-dress, do you ?
Consider my morals ! '

Oh no, of course not,' she replied with
a faint smile ; yet it was some time before
she fell to sleep again.

It was not many nights before my wife
roused me again with the same complaint.

Arthur, don't call me silly, but I am
certain I heard something.'

To appease her fears, I shook off my
drowsiness, and, with a lighted candle,
made a tour of the house ; but all was as I
had left it.

Once, indeed, I Imagined that I heard
at my side the sound of a quick breathing ;
but that I knew must be sheer fancy, since
I was alone.

The only circumstance that startled me
was finding Dawson, the man servant, who
slept on the ground floor, also awake, and
listening at his door.

What roused you, Dawson ? '

Well, sir, I can hardly say ; but I
fancied I heard some one going up the
stairs a little while ago.'

You heard me coming down, you mean.'

No, sir, begging your pardon, it was
footsteps going up — lighter than yours, sir.
More like those of a woman.'

Yet, though I privately interrogated the
female servants on the following day, I
could not discover that any of them had
been out of their beds ; and I forbore to
tell my wife what Dawson had said In
corroboration of her statement.

Only I was as much annoyed as astonished
when, as I finished my catechism
of Mary, our head nurse, she informed me
that she had made up her mind to leave
our service. Mary — my wife's right hand
who had been with us ever since the
birth of our first child! The announcement
took me completely aback.

What on earth is your reason for leaving
us ? ' I demanded angrily ; for I knew
what a blow her decision would be to Jane.
What have you to find fault with ? '

Nothing with you or the mistress, sir ;
but I can't remain in this house. I wouldn't
stay in it a night longer, if it were possible
to get away ; and I do hope you and Mrs
Delamere will let me go as soon as ever
you can, sir, as it will be the death of me.'

What will be the death of you ? '

The footsteps, sir, and the voices,' she
answered, crying. ' I can hear them about
the nurseries all night long, and it's more
than any mortal can stand — it is, indeed.'

Are you infected with the same folly ? '
I exclaimed. ' I see what it is, Dawson
has been talking to you. I didn't know
I had such a couple of fools in my establishment.'


Mr Dawson has said nothing to me
about nothing, sir,' she answered. * I

hear what I hear with my own ears ; and I
wouldn't stay a week longer in this 'haunted
place, not if you was to strew the floor
with golden guineas for me.'

Not possessing either the capability or
the inclination to test Mary's fidelity by
the means she alluded to, and finding her
determination unalterable, I gave her the
desired permission to depart ; only making
it a stipulation that she should not tell her
mistress the real reason for her leaving us,
but ascribe it to bad news from home, or
any other cause.

But though I could not but believe that
the woman's idiotic terrors had blinded
her judgment, I was extremely surprised
to find she should have been so led astray,
as I had always considered Mary to possess
a remarkably clear head and good moral
sense. The wailing and lamentation, from
both mother and children, at the announcement
of her departure made me still more
angry with her obstinacy and folly. But
she continued resolute ; and we were driven
to try and secure some one to fulfil her
duties from the neighbouring town. But
here a strange difficulty met us. We saw
several fresh, rosy-cheeked maidens, who
appeared quite willing to undertake our
service, until they heard where we resided.

when, by an extraordinary coincidence,
one and all discovered that some insurmountable
obstacle prevented their coming
at all. When the same thing had occurred
several times in succession, and Jane appeared
worn out with disappointment and
fatigue, the landlord of the inn where we
had put up for the day appeared at the
door, and beckoned me out.

May I make bold enough to ask if you
want a servant to go to Rushmere ? ' he
inquired of me in a whisper.

Certainly, we do. Our nurse has been
obliged to leave us suddenly, and we want
some one to supply her place.'

Then you may give it up as a bad job,
sir ; for you'll never get one of the country
people here about to set a foot in Rush-mere
— not if you were to live there till the
day of your death.'

And why not ? ' I demanded, with
affected ignorance.

What ! haven't you heard nothing since
you've been there, sir .-^ '

Heard t What should I have heard,
except the ordinary noises of the household
} '

Well, you're lucky if you've escaped
so far,' returned the landlord, mysteriously ;
but it ain't for long. No one who lives

in Rushmere lives there alone. I can tell
you the whole story if you like ? '

I have no desire to listen to any such
folly,' I replied, testily. ' I am not superstitious,
and do not believe in supernatural
sights or sounds. If the people roundabout
here are foolish enough to do so, I
cannot help it ; but I will not have the
minds of my wife or family imbued with
their nonsense.'

Very good, sir ; I hope you may be
able to say as much two months hence,'
said the man, civilly.

And so we parted.

I returned to Janie, and persuaded her
he had told me that all the girls of that town
had a strong objection to leave it, which
was the reason they refused to take service
in the country. I reminded her that Susan
was quite competent to take charge of the
whole flock until we returned to London ;
and it would be better after all to put up
with a little inconvenience than to introduce
a stranger to the nursery. So my
wife, who was disappointed with the failure
of her enterprise, fell in with my ideas,
and we returned to Rushmere, determined
to do as best we could with Susan only.

But I could not forget the landlord's
earnestness, and, notwithstanding my incredulity,

began to wish we were well out
of Rushmere.

For a few days after Mary's departure
we slept in peace ; but then the question
of the mysterious footsteps assumed a
graver aspect, for my wife and I were
roused from deep slumber one night by a
loud knock upon the bedroom door, and
springing up to answer it, I encountered,
on the threshold, Dawson, pale with fright,
and trembling in every limb.

What do you mean by alarming your
mistress in this way ? ' I inquired, angrily.

I'm very sorry, sir,' he replied, with
chattering teeth, ' but I thought it my duty
to let you know. There's some one in the
house to-night, sir. I can hear them whispering
together at this moment ; and so
can you, if you will but listen.'

I advanced at once to the banisters, and
certainly heard what seemed to be the sound
of distant voices engaged in altercation ;
and, light in hand, followed by Dawson,
I dashed down the staircase without further
ceremony, in hopes of trapping the intruders.


But all in vain. Though we entered
every room in turn, not a soul was visible.

I came to the conclusion that the whole
alarm was due to Dawson's cowardice.

You contemptible fool, you are as
chicken-hearted as a woman!' I said, contemptuously.
'You hear the frogs croaking
in the mere, or the wind blowing through
the rushes, and you immediately conclude
the house is full of thieves.'

I didn't say it was thieves,' the man
interposed, sullenly ; but I took no notice
of the muttered remark.

If you are afraid to sleep downstairs by
yourself,' I continued, ' say so ; but don't
come alarming your mistress again, in the
middle of the night, for I won't allow it'

The man slunk back into his room, with
a reiteration that he had not been mistaken ;
and I returned to bed, full of complaints at
having been so unnecessarily roused.

If this kind of thing goes on,' I remarked
to my wife,' I shall regret ever
having set eyes on Rushmere. That a
pack of silly maid-servants should see a
robber in every bush is only to be expected
; but how a sensible man like Dawson,
and a woman of education like yourself,
can permit your imagination to betray
you into such foolish fears, is quite past my
comprehension.'

Yet, notwithstanding my dose of philosophy,
poor Jane looked so pale upon the
following morning, that I was fain to devise

and carry into execution a little excursion
into the neighbouring country before she
regained her usual composure.

Some time passed without any further
disturbance, and though upon several occasions
I blamed myself for having brought
a family, used to a populous city like
London, to vegetate in so isolated a spot
as Rushmere, 1 had almost forgotten the circumstances
that had so much annoyed me.

We had now spent a month in our temporary
home. The fields and hedgerows
were bright with summer flowers, and the
children passed most of their time tumbling
amongst the new-mown hay. Janie had
once more regained courage to sit by herself
in the dusk, and to rest with tolerable
security when she went to bed. I was rejoicing
in the idea that all the folly that
had marred the pleasure of our arrival at
Rushmere had died a natural death, when
it was vividly and painfully recalled to my
mind by its actual recurrence.

Our second girl, a delicate little creature
of about six years old, who, since the departure
of her nurse, had slept in a cot in
the same room as ourselves, woke me up
in the middle of the night by exclaiming,
in a frightened, plaintive voice, close to
my ear, —

Papa! papa! do you hear the footsteps?
Some one is coming up the stairs ! '

The tone was one of terror, and it roused
my wife and myself instantly. The child
was cold, and shaking all over with alarm,
and I placed her by her mother's side before
I left the room to ascertain if there was any
truth in her assertion.

Arthur, Arthur! I hear them as plainly
as can be,' exclaimed my wife, who was as
terrified as the child. ' They are on the
second landing. There is no mistake about
it this time.'

I listened at the half-opened door, and
was compelled to agree with her. From
whatever cause they arose, footsteps were
to be distinctly heard upon the staircase —
sometimes advancing, and then retreating,
as though afraid to venture farther ; but,
still, not to be mistaken for anything but
the sound of feet.

With a muttered exclamation, I seized
my revolver.

Don't be alarmed,' I said, hurriedly ;
there is not the slightest occasion for it.
And, whatever happens, do not venture on
the landing. I shall be quite safe.'

And without further preamble, only desirous
to settle the business once for all,
and give the intruders on my domains a

sharp lesson on the laws of meitm and tuum,
I sprang down the staircase. I had not
stayed to strike a light ; but the moon
was shining blandly in at the uncurtained
passage window, and the landing was as
bright as day. Yet I saw no one there.
The thief (if thief it were) must have
already taken the alarm, and descended to
the lowest regions. I fancied I could
detect the same footsteps, but more distinctly
marked, walk by me with a hurried,
frightened movement, accompanied by a
quick, sobbing breath ; and, as I paused to
consider what such a mystery could indicate,
a pair of heavily-shod feet rushed past me,
or seemed to rush, upon the stairs. I heard
an angry shout commingle with a faint
cry of terror below the landing whereon I
stood ; then, the discharge of a firearm,
followed by a low groan of pain — and all
was still.

Dark and mysterious though it appeared
to be, I did not dream of ascribing the
circumstance to any but a natural cause.
But there was evidently no time for hesitation,
and in another moment I had flown
down the stairs, and stood in the moonlighted
hall. It was empty ! Chairs, table,
hatstand, stood in their accustomed places ;
the children's garden hats and my fishing

tackle were strewn about ; but of animated
nature there was not a sign, of the recent
scuffle not a trace !

All was quiet, calm, and undisturbed,
and, as I gazed around in mute bewilderment,
the perspiration stood in thick drops
upon my brow and chin.

My first collected thought was for my
wife and the best means by which to prevent
her sharing the mystification and
dread which I have no hesitation in confessing
that I now experienced ; but as I
turned to remount the staircase, I caught
sight of some dark mass lying at the further
end of the passage, and going up to it,
found to my surprise the body of Dawson,
cold and insensible.

The explanation of the mystery was
before me — so I immediately determined.
The man, whom I knew to be replete with
superstitious terror, imagining he heard
the unaccountable noise of footsteps, had
evidently supplied that which had reached
my ear, and in his alarm at my approach
had discharged his firearm at the supposed
marauder. Pleasant for me if he had taken
a better aim : So I thought as I dragged
his unconscious body into his bedroom,
and busied myself by restoring it to
sensation.

As soon as he opened his eyes, and was
sufficiently recovered to answer me, I
asked, —

What on earth made you discharge
your gun, Dawson ? I must take it out
of your keeping, if your are so careless
about using it.'

I didn't fire, sir.'

Nonsense ! you don't know what you
are talking about. I heard the shot distinctly
as I came downstairs.'

I am only telling you the truth, sir.
There is the fowling-piece in that corner.
I have not drawn the trigger since you
last loaded it.'

I went up and examined the weapon.
What Dawson had said was correct. It
had not been used.

Then who did fire?' I said, impatiently.
' I could swear to having heard
the report.'

'And so could I, sir. It was that that
knocked me over.'

What do you mean ?'

Oh, sir, pray take the mistress and the
children away from this place as soon as
possible. It's no robbers that go up and
down these stairs of nights, sir. It's something
much worse than that.'

Dawson, if you begin to talk such folly

to me, I'll discharge you on the spot. I
believe the whole lot of you have gone
mad.'

But listen to my story, sir. I had gone
to bed last night, as tired as possible, and
thinking of nothing but getting a good
long sleep. The first thing that roused
me was some one trying the handle of my
door. I lay and listened to it for sometime
before I was fully awake, and then I
thought maybe you wanted something out
of my room, and was trying not to wake
me ; so I got out of bed and opened the
door. But there was nobody there, though
I fancied I heard some one breathing hard
a few yards off from me. Well, I thought
to myself, sir, this is all nonsense ; so I
came back to bed again, and lay down.
But I couldn't sleep ; for directly the door
was closed, I heard the footsteps again,
creep, creeping along the passage and the
wall, as though some one was crouching
and feeling his way as he went. Then the
handle of the door began to creak and turn
again — I saw it turn, sir, with my own eyes,
backwards and forwards, a dozen times in
the moonlight : and then I heard a heavier
step come stumbling downstairs, and there
seemed to be a kind of scuffle. I couldn't
stand it no longer, so I opened the door.

VOL. II. H

again ; and then, as I'm a living Christian,
sir, I heard a woman's voice say ' Father ! '
with a kind of sob, and as the sound was
uttered there came a report from the first
landing, and the sound of a fall, and a deep
groan in the passage below. And it seemed
to go right through me, and curdle my
blood, and I fell all of a heap where you
found me. And it's nothing natural, sir,
you may take my word for it ; and harm
will come of your stopping in this house.'

So saying, poor Dawson, who seemed
in real earnest, fell back on his pillow with
a heavy sigh.

Dawson,' I said, critically, * what did
you eat for supper last night ? '

You're never going to put down what
I've told you, sir, to supper. I took nothing
but a little cold meat, upon my word. And
I was as sensible, till that shot knocked
me over, as you are this moment.'

Do you mean to tell me that you seriously
believe the report of a firearm could have
reached your ears without one having been
discharged ? '

But didn't you say you heard it yourself,
sir ? '

This knocked me over, and I did not
know what to answer him. In the attempt
to allay what I considered his unreasonable

fear, I had forgotten my own experience in
the matter. And I knew that I had heard,
or imagined I heard, a shot fired, and it
would be very difficult for any one to persuade
me I was mistaken. Still, though I
held no belief in supernatural agencies, I
was an earnest student of the philosophical
and metaphysical school of Germany, and
acquainted with all the revealed wonders
of magnetism and animal electricity. It
was impossible to say whether some such
effect as I have described might not have
been produced upon my brain by the reflection
of the fear or fancy on that of my servant
; and that as he had imagined the
concussion of firearms, so I might have
instantaneously received the impression of
his mind. It was a nice question for
argument, and not one to be thought over
at that moment. All my present business
lay in the effort to disabuse Dawson's mind
of the reality of the shock it had received.

I said I fancied I heard something like
the report of a firearm ; but as none had
been fired, of course I must have been
mistaken. Come, Dawson, I must go
back, or Mrs Delamere will wonder what
ha become of me. I conclude you are
not such a coward as to be afraid to be
left by yourself ? '

I never feared a man in my life, sir ;
but the strongest heart can't stand up
against spirits.'

Spirits !' I exclaimed, angrily. 'I wonder
what on earth you will talk to me about
next ? Now, I'll tell you what it is, Dawson
— if I hear anything more of this, or am
disturbed again at night by your folly, I'll
pack you back to London without a character.
Do you understand me ? '

I understand you, sir,' the man answered,
humbly ; and thereupon I left him to himself


But, as I reascended the staircase, I was
not satisfied either with my own half-formed
solution of the mystery, or my
servant's reception of my rebuke. He
evidently would prefer dismissal to passing
such another night. I could read the
resolution in his face, although he had not
expressed it in so many words. When I
reached my wife's room, I was still more
surprised. Janie and the child lay in a
profound slumber. I had expected to find
both of them in a state of anxious terror to
learn the meaning of the noise that was
going on below ; but they had evidently
heard nothing. This welcome fact, however,
only tended to confirm me in the
belief I had commenced to entertain, of

the whole circumstance being due to some,
perhaps yet undiscovered, phase of brain
reading, and I fell to sleep, resolved to
make a deeper study of the marvels propounded
by Messer and Kant. When I
awoke, with the bright June sun streaming
in at the windows, I had naturally parted
with much of the impression of the night
before. It is hard to associate any gloomy
or unnatural thoughts with the unlimited
glory of the summer's sunshine, that streams
into every nook and cranny, and leaves no
shadows anywhere. On this particular
morning it seemed to have cleared the
cobwebs off all our brains. The child had
forgotten all about the occurrence of the
night. I was, as usual, ready to laugh
away all ghostly fears and fancies ; and
even Janle seemed to regard the matter as
one of little moment.

What was the matter last night, Arthur,
dear .^ ' she asked, when the subject recurred
to her memory. ' I was so sleepy
I couldn't keep awake till you came up
again.'

Didn't you hear the fearful battle I held
with the goblins in the hall ? ' 1 demanded,
gaily, though I put the question with a purpose,
— ' the shots that were exchanged
between us, and the groans of the defeated,

as they slunk away into their haunted coal-cellars
and cupboards ? '

Arthur, what nonsense ! Was there
any noise ?'

Well, I frightened Dawson, and Dawson
frightened me ; and we squabbled over
it for the best part of an hour. I thought
our talking might have disturbed you.'

Indeed, it didn't, then. But don't
mention it before Cissy, Arthur, even in
fun, for she declares she heard some one
walking about the room, and I want her
to forget it.'

I dropped the subject ; but meeting
Dawson as I was smoking my pipe in the
garden that afternoon, I ventured to rally
him on his fright of the night before, and
to ask if he hadn't got over it by that time.

No, sir ; and I never shall,' he replied,
with a sort of shiver. * And I only hope
you may come to be convinced of the truth
of it before it's too late to prevent harm
you may never cease to repent of

There was so much respectful earnestness
in the man's manner, that I could not
resent his words nor laugh at them, as I
had done before ; and I passed by him in
thoughtful silence.

What if there were more in all this than
I had ever permitted myself to imagine }

What if the assertions of my man-servant,
the unaffected terror of my wife and child,
the fears of my nurse, the evident shrinking
of the old woman who had charge of
the house, the opposition from the servants
of the neighbouring town, combined with
what I had heard myself, were not simple
chimeras of the brain — fancies engendered
by superstition or timidity or ignorance ;
but indications of a power beyond our control,
the beginning and the end of which
may alike remain unknown until all things
are revealed ? I had, with the majority of
educated men, manfully resisted all temptation
to believe in the possibility of spirits,
of whatever grade, making themselves
either seen or heard by mortal senses. I
use the word ' manfully,' although I now
believe it to be the height of manliness to
refuse to discredit that which we cannot
disprove, and to have sufficient humility to
accept the belief that there are more things
in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in
our philosophy. But at that juncture I
should have considered such a concession
both childish and cowardly. Yet, there
was sufficient doubt in my mind, notwithstanding
the glorious June sun, respecting
my adventure of the night before, that I
resolved, whatever happened, that I would

satisfy myself as to the value of the fears of
those about me.

I could not keep my wife and children
in a house where they might be liable at
any moment to be frightened out of their
seven senses, from whatever cause, without
ascertaining the reason of it. Some
reason there must be, either natural or
otherwise ; and I determined, if possible, to
learn it that very night. I would not tell
Dawson or anyone of my intention ; but I
would keep watch and ward in the old parlour
on the ground floor, so as to be ready to
rush out at a moment's notice, and seize any
intruder who might attempt to disturb us.
I still believed — I could not but believe —
that the footsteps which so many of us had
heard were due to some trickster, who
wished to play upon our nerves in that
lonely old house. I had heard of such
things being done, purposely to keep
visitors away ; and I determined, whosoever
it might be, whether our own servants
or strangers, that they must take their
chance of being shot down like any other
robber.

According to my resolution, I said
nothing to Janie, but tried to render the
evening as cheerful and merry a one as
possible.

I ordered strawberries and cream into
the hay-field, and played with my troop of
little ones there, until they were so tired
they could hardly walk for the short distance
that lay between them and their
beds. As soon as they were dismissed,
and we had returned to the house, I laid
aside the newspapers that had arrived by
that morning's post, and which I usual'
reserved for the evenings delectation, and
taking my wife upon my knee, as in the
dear old courting days, talked to her until
she had forgotten everything but the topics
on which we conversed, and had no time
to brood upon the coming night, and the
fears it usually engendered. Then, as a
last duty, I carried to Dawson with my
own hands a strong decoction of brandy
and water, with which I had mixed something
that I knew, under ordinary circumstances,
must make him sleep till daylight.

Drink this,' I said to him. ' From
whatever cause, our nerves were both
shaken last night, and a little stimulant
will do neither of us harm.'

Thank you, sir,' he replied, as he
finished the tumbler at a draught ; ' I don't
deny I'm glad to have it. I dread the
thoughts of the niorht before us.'

Lock your door on the inside,' I added

as I left him, ' and don't get up whether
the handle moves or not. Then, at all
events, you will feel secure till the
morrow.'

Keys won't keep them out,' muttered
Dawson, as he entered his sleeping apartment.


But I would not notice the allusion,
though I understood it.

I went up to bed with my wife as usual ;
and it was not until I saw she was sound
asleep that, habited in my dressing-gown
and slippers, I ventured to creep softly out
of the room and take my way downstairs
again.

It was then about twelve o'clock. The
moonlight was as bright as it had been the

o o

night before, and made every object distinctly
visible. From the loud snoring
which proceeded from Dawson's room, I
concluded that my opiate had taken due
effect, and that I should be permitted to
hold my vigil undisturbed. In one hand I
grasped a loaded revolver, and in the other
a huge knotted stick, so determined was I
not to be taken by my tormentors at a
disadvantage. I turned into the general
sitting-room, which opened on the hall.
All was as we had left it ; and I ensconced
myself on one of the large old-fashioned

sofas, trusting to my curiosity to keep me
awake.

It was weary waiting. I heard one and
then two sound from the big clock in the
hall ; still there was no other noise to
break the silence. I began to relapse Into
my first belief that the whole business was
due to imagination. From this I passed
to self-satisfaction ; self-satisfaction induced
insertion, and insertion brought on heavy
sleep. How long I slept I do not know,
but I had reason afterwards to think, not
more than half-an-hour.

However, that point is immaterial. But
what waked me — waked me so completely
that in a moment all my faculties were as
clear as daylight — was the sound of a
hoarse breathing. I sat up on the sofa
and rubbed my eyes.

The room was fully lighted by the moon.
I could see into each corner. Nothing was
visible. The sound I had heard must then
have proceeded from outside the door,
which was open ; and I turned towards it,
fully expecting to see Dawson enter in a
somnambulistic condition, brought on by
his dreams and my soporific.

But he did not appear. I rose and
looked into the hall. It was empty, as
before. Still the breathing continued, and

(as I, with now fully-awakened faculties,
discovered) proceeded from a corner of the
parlour where stood an old - fashioned
secretary and a chair. Not daring to
believe my senses, I advanced to the spot
and listened attentively. The sound continued,
and was unmistakably palpable.
The breathing was hoarse and laboured,
like that of an old man who was suffering
from bronchitis or asthma. Every now
and then it was interrupted by a short,
roupy cough. What I suffered under this
mysterious influence I can hardly tell. Interest
and curiosity got the better of my
natural horror ; but even then I could not
but feel that there was something very
awful in this strange contact of sound without
sight. Presently my eyes were attracted
by the chair, which was pushed,
without any visible agency, towards the
wall. Something rose — I could hear the
action of the feet. Something moved — I
could hear it approaching the spot where I
stood motionless. Something brushed past
me, almost roughly — I could feel the contact
of a cloth garment against my ,
and heard the sound of coarsely
shod feet leaving the room. My hair was
almost standing on end with terror ; but I
was determined to follow the mystery to

Its utmost limits, whether my curiosity
were satisfied by the attempt or not.

I rushed after the clumping feet into the
hall ; and I heard them slowly and painfully,
and yet most distinctly, commence to
toil up the staircase. But before they had
reached the first landing, and just as I was
about to follow in their wake, my attention
was distracted by another sound, which
appeared to be close at my elbow — the
sound of which Dawson had complained the
night before — that of a creeping step, and a
stifled sobbing, ^s though a woman were
feeling her way along the passage in the
dark. I could discern the feeble touch as
it felt along the wall, and then placed an
uncertain hold upon the banisters — could
hear the catching breath, which dared not
rise into a cry, and detect the fear which
caused the feet to advance and retreat, and
advance a little way again, and then stop,
as though dread of some unknown calamity
overpowered every other feeling. Meanwhile,
the clumping steps, that had died
away In the distance, turned, and appeared
to be coming downstairs aofain. The moon
streamed brightly in at the landing window.
Had a form been visible, it would have
been as distinctly seen as by day. I
experienced a sense of coming horror, and

drew back in the shadow of the wall. As
the heavy footsteps gained the lower landing,
I heard a start — a scuffle — a faint cry
of * Father ! ' and then a curse — the flash of
a firearm — a groan — and I remember nothing
more.

When I recovered my consciousness, I
was lying on the flat of my back in the
passage, as I had found poor Dawson the
night before, and the morning sun was
shining full upon my face. I sat up,
rubbed my eyes, and tried to remember
how I had come there. Surely the moon
had looked in at that window when I saw
it last. Then in a moment came back
upon my mind all that I had heard whilst
holding my vigil during the past night ;
and I sprang to my feet, to see if I could
discover any traces of the tragedy which
seemed to have been enacted in my very
presence.

But it was In vain I searched the parlour,
the passage, and the stairs. Everything
remained in its usual place. Even the
chair, which I could swear I saw pushed
against the wall, was now standing primly
before the secretary, and the door of the
room was closed, as it usually was when we
retired for the night. I slunk up to my
dressing-room, anxious that my wife should

not discover that I had never retired to
rest ; and having plunged my head and
face into cold water, took my way across
the sunHghted fields, to see if the fresh
morning air might not be successful in
clearing away the confusion with which my
brain was oppressed. But I had made up
my mind on one point, and that was that
we would move out of Rushmere as soon
as it was possible to do so. After a stroll
of a couple of hours, I re-approached the
house. The first person I encountered
was the under nurse, Susan, who ran to
meet me with a perturbed countenance.

'Oh, sir, I'm so thankful you've come
back ! Dawson has been looking for you
for the last hour, for poor missus is so ill,
and we don't know what on earth to do
with her.'

111 ! In what way ?' I demanded quickly.

That's what wee can't make out, sir.
Miss Cissy came up crying to the nursery,
the first thing this morning, to tell me that
her mamma had tumbled out of bed, and
wouldn't speak to her ; and she couldn't
find her papa. So I ran downstairs
directly, sir ; and there I found my mistress
on the ground, quite insensible, and she
hasn't moved a limb since.'

Good heavens ! ' I inwardly exclaimed,

as I ran towards the house, * Is it possible
she can have been affected by the same
cause ? '

I found Janle, as the nurse had said, unconscious
; and it was some time before my
remedies had any effect on her. When
she opened her eyes, and understood the
condition she had been in, she was seized
with such a fit of nervous terror that she
could do nothing but cong to me, and
entreat me to take her away from Rush-mere.


Remembering my own experience, I
readily promised her that she should not
sleep another night in the house if she did
not desire it. Soothed by my words, she
gradually calmed down, and was at last
able to relate the circumstance which had
so terrified her.

Did you sleep in my room last night,
dear Arthur ? ' she asked, curiously.

I did not. But since you awoke, you
surely must have been aware of my absence.'

I know nothing, and remember nothing,
except the awful horror that overpowered
me. I had gone to sleep very happy last
night, and none of my silly fears, as you
have called them, ever entered my head.
Indeed, I think I was in the midst of some
pleasant dream, when I was awakened by

the sound of a low sobbing by the bedside.
Oh ! such a strange, unearthly sobbing '
(with a shudder). ' I thought at first it
must be poor little Cissy, who had been
frightened again, and I put out my hand
to her, saying, — " Don't be afraid, dear.
I am here." Directly, a hand was placed
in mine — a cold, damp hand, with a deathlike,
clayey feel about it that made me
tremble. I knew at once it was not the
child's hand, and I started up in bed, exclaiming,
— " Who are you ?"

The room was quite dark, for I had
pinned my shawl across the blind to keep
the moon out of my eyes before I went to
bed, and I could distinguish nothing. Yet
still the cold, damp hand clung to mine,
and seemed to strike the chill of death into
my very bones. When I said, '' Who are
you ? " something replied to me. I cannot
say it was a voice. It was more like
some one hissing at me through closed
teeth, but I could distinguish the name
Emily."

I was so frightened, Arthur, I did not
know what to do. I wrenched my hand
away from the dead hand. You were not
there, and I called out loudly. I would
have leaped out of bed, but that I heard
the creeping footsteps, accompanied by the

VOL. II. I

sobbing breath, go round the room, crying,
Father, father ! "

My blood seemed to curdle In my veins.
I could not stir until it was gone. I heard
it leave the room distinctly, although the
door was never opened, and walk upon
the landing as though to go downstairs. I
was still sitting up in bed listening — listening
— only waiting till the dreadful thing
had quite gone away, to seek your presence,
when I heard a heavy step clumping downstairs,
then the report of a gun. I don't
know what I thought. I remember nothing
that followed ; but I suppose I jumped
out of bed with the Intention of finding
you, and fainted before I could reach the
dressing-room. Oh, Arthur ! what was it ?
What is it that haunts this house, and
makes even the sunshine look as gloomy
as night ? Oh, take us away from it, or
I am sure that something terrible will
happen ! '

I will take you away from it, my dear.
We will none of us sleep another night
beneath Its roof. What curse hands over
it, I cannot tell ; but whether the strange
sounds we have heard proceed from natural
or supernatural causes, they alike render
Rushmere no home for us. We will go to
the hotel at this very day, Janie, and

deliver up the keys of Rushmere again to
Messrs Quibble & Lye.'

I then related to her my own experience,
and that of Dawson ; and though she
trembled a little whilst listening to me, the
idea of leaving the place before nightfall
rendered the heavy fear less alarming than
it would otherwise have been.

The servants, upon learning the resolution
we had arrived at, were only too ready
to help us to carry it out. Our personal
possessions were packed in an incredibly
short time, and we sat down that evening
to a comfortable family dinner in the good

old-fashioned inn at . As soon as the

meal was concluded, and the children sent
to bed, I said to my wife, —

Janie, I am going to ring for the landlord,
to see if he can throw any light on
the cause of our experiences. I never told
you that, when we came to this inn to try
for a nurse to supply Mary's place, he
informed me that nobody from his countryside
would live at Rushmere ; and asked
me, in a manner which assured me he could
have said more if he had chosen, if we had
not heard anything whilst there. I laughed
at the question then, but I do not feel so
disposed to laugh at it now ; and I am
going to beg him to tell me all he may

know. If nothing more, his story may
form the stratum of a curious psychological
study. Would you like to be present atour
interview ? '

Oh yes, Arthur ; I have quite recovered
my nerves since I've lost sight of Rush-mere,
and I feel even curious to learn all
I can upon the subject. That poor, sobbing
voice that whispered " Emily" — I
shall not forget its sound to my dying day.'

Ring the bell, dear, and let us ask if
the landlord is at leisure. To my mind,
your experience of the details of this little
tragedy appears the most interesting of
all'

The landlord, a Mr Browserr, entered at
once ; and as soon as he heard my request,
made himself completely at home with us.

After the little rebuff you gave me
t'other day, I shouldn't have ventured to
say nothing, sir ; but when I see your
family getting out of the fly this afternoon,
I says to Mrs Browserr, "If that don't
mean that they can't stand Rushmere
another night, I'm a pumpkin." And I
suppose, now, it did mean it, sir '^. '

You are quite right, Mr Browserr. The
noises and voices about the house have
become so intolerable, that it is quite impossible
I can keep my family there. Still,

I must tell you that, though I have been
unable to account for the disturbances, I
do not necessarily believe they are attributable
to spirits. It is because I do not
believe so that I wish to hear all you maybe
able to tell us, in order, if possible, to
find a reason for what appears at present
to be unreasonable.'

Well, sir, you shall hear, as you say, all
we have to tell you, and then you can
believe what you like. But it ain't I as
can relate the story, sir. Mrs Browserr
knows a deal more than I do ; and with
your leave, and that of this good lady here,
I'll call her to give you the history of
Rushmere.'

At this information, we displayed an
amount of interest that resulted in a hasty
summons for Mrs Browserr. She was a fat,
fair woman, of middle age, with ruddy
cheeks, and a clear blue eye — not at all
like a creature haunted by her own weak
imagination, or who would be likely to
mistake a shadow for a substance. Her
appearance inspired me with confidence.
I trusted that her relation might furnish
me with some clue to the solution of the
occurrences that had so confounded us.
Safe out of the precincts of Rushmere, and
with the lapse of twelve hours since the

unaccountable swoon I had been seized
with, my practical virtues were once more
in the ascendant, and I was inclined to
attribute our fright to anything but association
with the marvellous.

Be I to tell the story from the beginning,
Browserr ? ' was the first sentence
that dropped from Mrs Trowsers lips.

Her lord and master nodded an affirmative,
whereupon she began : —

When the gentleman as built Rush-mere
for his own gratification, sir, died,
the house let well enough. But the place
proved lonely, and there was more than
one attempt at robbery, and people grew
tired of taking it. And above all, the girls
of the village began to refuse to go to service
there. Well, it had been standing
empty for some months, when a gentleman
and his wife came to look after it. Browserr
and I — we didn't own this inn at that time,
you will understand, sir, but kept a general
shop in the village, and were but poorly
off altogether, although we had the postoffice
at our place, and did the best business
thereabouts. The key of Rushmere
used always to be left in our keeping, too,
and our boy would go up to show folks
over the house. Well, one damp autumn

day — I mind the day as if 'twere yesterday,
for Browserr had been ailing sadly with the
rheumatics for weeks past, and not able
to lift his hand to his head — this gentleman
and lady, who went by the name of Green-slade,
came for the keys of Rushmere. I
remember thinking Mr Greenslade had a
nasty, curious look about his eyes, and
that his wife seemed a poor, brow-beaten
creature ; but that was no business of
mine, and I sent Bill up with them to show
the house. They took it, and entered
on possession at once ; and then came
the difficulty about the servants. Not a
soul would enter the place at first. Then
a girl or two tried it, and came away when
their month was up, saying the house was
so lonesome, they couldn't sleep at nights,
and the master was so queer-spoken and
mannered, they were afraid of him.'

Don't forget to say what he was used
to do at nights,' here put in the landlord.

La, Browserr, I'm a-coming to it.
Everything in its time. Well, sir, at last
it came to this, that Mrs Greenslade hadn't
a creature to help her in anything, and
down she came to ask if I would goto
them for a few days. I stared ; for
there was the shop to be tended, and the
post-office looked after, and I hadn't been

6 The divisible Tenants of Rushmere.

used to odd jobs like that. But my husband
said that he could do all that was
wanted in the business ; and we were very
hard drove just then, and the lady offered
such liberal pay, he over-persuaded me to
go, if only on trial. So I put my pride in
my pocket, and went out charing. I hadn't
been at Rushmere many days, sir, before
I found something was very wrong there.
Mr Greenslade hardly ever spoke a word,
but shut himself up in a room all day, or
went mooning about the fields and common,
where he couldn't meet a soul ; and
as for the poor lady, la ! my heart bled for
her, she seemed so wretched and broken-down
and hopeless. I used often to say
to her, —

" Now, ma'am, do let me cook you a
bit of something nice, for you've eaten
nothing since yesterday, and you'll bring
yourself down to death's door at this rate."

And she'd answer, —

'* No, thank you, Mrs Browserr: I
couldn't touch it. I feel sometimes as if
I'd never care to eat or drink again."

sand Mr Greenslade, he was just as
bad. They didn't eat enough to keep a
well-grown child between the two of them.'

What-aged people were they ? ' I
asked.

Well, sir, I can hardly say ; they weren't
young nor yet old. Mr Greenslade, he
may have been about fifty, and his lady a
year or two younger ; but I never took
much count of that. But the gentleman
looked much the oldest of the two, by
reason of a stoop in his shoulders and a
constant cough that seemed to tear his
chest to pieces. I've known him shut
himself up in the parlour the whole night
long, coughing away fit to keep the whole
house awake. xA.nd his breathing, sir —
you could hear it half a mile off.'

He was dogmatical, poor man ! that's
where it was,' interposed Mr Browserr.

Well, I don't know what his complaint
was called. Browserr ; but he made noise
enough over it to wake the dead. But
don't you go interrupting me no more after
that fashion, or the gentleman and lady
will never understand the half of my story,
and I'm just coming to the cream oi it.'

I assure you we are deeply interested
in what you are telling us,' I said, politely.

It's very good of you to compliment
me, sir, but I expect it will make matters
clearer to you by-and-by. You're not the
first tenants of Rushmere I've had to tell
this tale to, I can tell you, and you won't
be the last, either. One night, when I

couldn't sleep for his nasty cough, and lay
awake, wishing to goodness he'd go to bed
like a Christian, I made sure I heard footsteps
In the hall, a-creeping and a-creeping
about like, as though some one was feeling
their way round the house. '* It can't bethe
mistress," I thought, '' and maybe it's
robbers, as have little idea the master's
shut up in the study." So I opened the
door quickly, but I could see nothing.'

Exactly my own experience,' I exclaimed.


Ah, sir, maybe ; but they weren't the
same footsteps, poor dear. I wish they
had been, and she had the same power to
tread now she had then. The hall was
empty ; but at the same time I heard the
master groaning and cursing most awful In
the parlour, and I went into my own room
again, that I oughtn't listen to his wicked
oaths and words. I always hated and distrusted
that man from the beelnninof. The
next day I mentioned I had heard footsteps,
before 'em both, and the rage Mr
Greenslade put himself Into was terrible.
He said no robbers had better break into
his house, or he'd shoot them dead as dogs.
Afterwards his wife came to me and asked
me what sort of footsteps they seemed ;
and when I told her, she cried upon my

neck, and begged me if ever I heard a
woman's step to say nothing of it to her
husband.

" A woman's step, ma'am," I replied ;
why, what woman would dare break into
a house ? "

But she only cried the more, and held
her tongue.

But that evening I heard their voices
loud in the parlour, and there was a regular
dispute between them.

** If ever she should come, Henry," Mrs
Greenslade said, " promise me you won't
speak to her unless you can say words of
pity or of comfort"

" Pity ! " he yelled, " what pity has
she had for me ? If ever she or any
emissary of hers should dare to set foot
upon these premises, I shall treat them
as house-breakers, and shoot them down
like dogs ! "

'" Oh no! Henry, no!" screamed the
poor woman ; " think who she is. Think
of her youth, her temptation, and forgive
her."

" I'll never forgive her — I'll never own
her ! " the wretch answered loudly ; " but
I'll treat her, or any of the cursed crew she
associates with, as I would treat strangers
who forced their way in to rob me by night.

'Twill be an evil day for them when they
attempt to set foot in my house."

Well, sir, I must cut this long story
short, or you and your good lady will never
get to bed to-night.

The conversation I had overheard made
me feel very uncomfortable, and I was
certain some great misfortune or disgrace
had happened to the parties I was serving ;
but I didn't let it rest upon my mind, till a
few nights after, when I was wakened up
by the same sound of creeping footsteps
along the passage. As I sat up in bed
and listened to them, I heard the master
leave the parlour and go upstairs. At the
same moment something crouched beside my
door, and tried to turn the handle ; but it was
locked, and wouldn't open. I felt very uneasy.
I knew my door stood in the shadow,
and that whoever crouched there must have
been hidden from Mr Greenslade as he
walked across the hall. Presently I heard
his footsteps coming downstairs again, as
though he had forgotten something. He
used to wear such thick boots, sir, you
might hear his step all over the house.
His loaded gun always stood on the first
landing ; when he reached there he stopped,
I suppose it was his bad angel made him
stop. Anyway, there was a low cry of

Father, father ! " — a rush, the report of
the gun, a low groan, and then all was still.
La ! sir, I trembled so in my bed, you
might have seen it shake under me.'

I've seen it shake under you many a
time,' said Browserr.

Perhaps you would like to tell the lady
and gentleman my exact weight, though I
don't see what that's got to do with the
story,' replied his better half, majestically.

I don't think I should ever have had
the courage to leave my room, sir, unless I
had heard my poor mistress fly down the
staircase, with a loud scream. Then I got
up, and joined her. Oh, it was an awful
sight ! There, stretched on the floorcloth,
lay the dead body of a young girl ; and my
mistress had fainted dead away across her,
and was covered with the blood that was
pouring from a great hole in her forehead.
On the landing stood my master,
white as a sheet, and shaking like an
aspen leaf.

'" So, this is your doing! " I cried, angrily.
You're a nice man to have charge of a
gun. Do you see what you've done ?
Killed a poor girl in mistake for a robber,
and nearly killed your wife into the bargain.
Who is this poor murdered young creature ?
Do you know her ? "

'* Know her ! " he repeated, with a
groan. " Woman, don't torture me with
your questions. Sie is my own daughter ! "

He rushed upstairs as he spoke, and I
was in a nice quandary, left alone with the
two unconscious women. When my poor
mistress woke up again, she wanted me
to fetch a doctor ; but it would have
been of no use. She was past all human
help.

We carried the corpse upstairs between
us, and laid It gently on the bed. I've
often wondered since where the poor mother's
strength came from, but it was lent
her for the need. Then, sitting close tome
for the remainder of the night, she told
me her story — how the poor girl had led
such an unhappy life with her harsh, ill-tempered
father, that she had been tempted
into a foolish marriage by the first lover
that offered her affection and a peaceful
home.

" I always hoped she would come back
to us," said Mrs Greenslade, '' for her husband
had deserted her, leaving her destitute
; and yet, although she knew how to
enter the house unobserved, I dreaded her
doing so, because of her father's bitter
enmity. Only last night, Mrs Browserr, I
awoke from sleep, and fancied I heard a

sobbing In my room. I whispered, ' Who
is there?' and a voice replied, 'Emily!'
But I thought it was a dream. If I had
known — if I had but known!"

She lay so quiet and uncomplaining
on my knee, only moving now and
then, that she frightened me ; and when
the morning broke, I tried to shift her,
and said, —

" Hadn't I better go and see after the
master, ma'am ? "

As I mentioned his name, I could seethe
shudder that ran through her frame ;
but she motioned me away with her
hand.

I went upstairs to a room Mr Green-slade
called his dressing-room, and where
I guessed he'd gone ; and you'll never believe,
sir, the awful sight as met my eyes.
I didn't get over it for a month — did I,
Browserr ? '

You haven't got over it to this day,
I'm sometimes thinking, missus.'

That means I'm off my head ; but if it
wasn't for my head, I wonder where the
business would go to. No, sir — if you'll
believe me, when I entered the room, there
was the old man dead as mutton, hanging
from a beam in the ceiling. I gave one
shriek, and down I fell.'

I don't wonder at It,' cried Janie.

Well, ma'am, when I came to again,
all was confusion and misery. We had
the service in, and the crowner's inquest,
and there was such a fuss, you never see.
Some of Mrs Greenslade's friends came
and fetched her away ; but I heard she
didn't live many months afterwards. As
for myself, I was only too glad to get back
to the shop and my old man, and the first
words I said to him was, —

" No more charing for me." '

'And now, sir, if I may make so bold,
what do you think of the story ?' demanded
the landlord. ' Can you put this and that
together now ? '

It is marvellous ! ' I replied. * Your wife
has simply repeated the scene which we
have heard enacted a dozen times in Rush-mere.
The footsteps were a nightly occurrence.'


I heard the voice ! ' exclaimed Janie,
and it whispered " Emily!' '

The handle of my servant's door was
turned. The report of the gun was as distinct
as possible.'

That is what everybody says as goes to
Rushmere, sir. No one can abide the
place since that awful murder was committed
there,' said Mrs Browserr.

And can you account for it in any way,
sir ? * demanded her husband, slyly. ' Do
you think, now that you've heard the
story, that the noises are mortal, or that
it's the spirits of the dead that causes
them ? '

I don't know what to think. Browserr.
There is a theory that no uttered sound is
ever lost, but drifts as an eddying circle
into space, until in course of time it must
be heard again. Thus our evil words, too
often accompanied by evil deeds, live forever,
to testify against us in eternity. It
may be that the Universal Father ordains
that some of His guilty children shall ex-curate
their crimes by re-acting them
until they become sensible of their enormity
; but this can be but a matter for
speculation. This story leaves us, as such
stories usually do, as perplexed as we were
before. We cannot tell — we probably
never shall tell — what irrefragable laws of
the universe these mysterious circumstances
fulfil ; but we know that spirit and matter
alike are in higher hands than ours ; and,
whilst nature cannot help trembling when
brought in contact with the supernatural,
we have no need to fear that it will ever
be permitted to work us harm.'

This little analysis was evidently too

VOL. II. K

much for Mr and Mrs Browserr, who, with
a look of complete mystification on their
countenances, rose from their seats, and
wished us respectfully good-night ; leaving
Janie and me to evolve what theories we
chose from the true story of the Invisible
Tenants of Rushmere.

was five o'clock — five o'clock
on a dull November afternoon
as I, Elizabeth Lacy, the
wretched companion of Lady
Cunningham, of Northampton Lodge, in
the town of Rockledge, stood gazing from
the dining-room windows at the grey curtain
of fog which was slowly but surely
rising between my vision and all outward
things, and thinking how like it was in
colour and feeling and appearance to my
own sad life. I have said that I was the
wretched ' companion of Lady Cunningham
: is it very ungrateful of me to
have written down that word ? I think
not ; for if a wearisome seclusion and continual
servitude have power to make a

young life miserable, mine had fairly
earned its title to be called so. I had
withered in the cold and dispiriting atmosphere
of Northampton Lodge for four
years past, and had only been prevented
rupturing my chains by the knowledge
that I had no alternative but to rush from
one state of bondage to another. To
attend upon old ladies like an upper
servant — to write their letters, carry their
shawls, and wait upon them as they moved
from room to room — this was to be my lot
through life ; and if I ever dreamed that
a brighter one might intervene, the vision
was too faint and idealistic to gild the
stern realities which were no dreams.

I daresay there are plenty of people in
this world more miserable than I : indeed,
I knew it for a fact even at the time of
which I speak ; and the few friends I
possessed were never tired of telling me
that I was better off than many, and that
I should strive to look on the bright side
of things, and to thank heaven who had
provided me with a safe and respectable
home, when I might have been upon the
parish. Did not Job have friends to
console him in his trouble ^ Do not we
all find in the day of our distress that,
whatever else fails, good advice is always

forthcoming ? Well ! perhaps I was ungrateful
: at all events, I was young and
headstrong, and good advice irritated and
worried, instead of making me any better.
I knew that I was warmly clothed, whilst
beggars stood shivering at the corner of
the streets, and that beneath the care of
Lady Cunningham no harm could happen
to me, whilst women younger than myself
broke God's holy laws to put bread in their
mouths. And yet, and yet, so perverse is
human nature, and so perverse was mine
above all others, that, engaged on my
monotonous round of duty, I often envied
the beggars their liberty and their rags ;
and even sometimes wished that I had not
been reared so honesty, and had the
courage to be less respectable and more
free. Perhaps one reason why my life
chafed me so fearfully, was because I had
not been brought up to it. Five years
before, I had been the child of parents in
good circumstances, and loved and made
much of, as only daughters generally are.
My father, who held the comfortable living
of Fairmead in Dorsetshire, had always
managed to keep up the household of a
gentleman, and my poor delicate mother
and myself had enjoyed every luxury consistent
with our station in life. She had

had her flower-garden and her poultry and
her pony-chair, and I my pets and my
piano and — my lover. Ah ! as I stood at
the wire-blinded windows of Lady Cunningham's
dining-room that sad November
afternoon, and recalled these things, I
knew by the pang which assailed me at
the thought of Bruce Armytage, which loss
of them all had affected me most. My
father and mother, who from my youth up
had so tenderly loved and guarded me,
were in their graves, and with them had
vanished all the luxuries and possessions
of my early days. But though I stood
there a penniless orphan, with no joy in
my present and very little hope in my
future, the tears had not rushed to my eyes
until my memory had rested on Bruce
Armytage ; and then they fell so thickly
that they nearly blinded me ; for mingled
with his memory came shame as well as
regret, and to a woman perhaps shame is
the harder feeling of the two. His conduct
had been so very strange, so marvellously
strange and unaccountable to me,
that to that day I had found no clue to it.
When he first came down and took lodgings
in Fairmead — for the purpose of studying
to pass his examination for the law, he
said — he had seemed so very, very fond of

me that our engagement followed on the
avowal of his love as a matter of course.
But then his family interfered ; they thought,
perhaps, that he ought to marry some one
higher than myself, though my father was
a gentleman, and no man can be more ; at
any rate, his father wrote to say that Bruce
was far too young (his age was then just
twenty) to fix upon his choice for life, and
that no regular engagement must be made
between us until he returned from the two
years' foreign tour he was about to make.
My father and mother said that old Mr
Armytage was right, and that in two years'
time both I and my lover would be better
able to form an opinion on so serious a
matter. Bruce and I declared it was all
nonsense, that fifty years of separation
could make no difference to us, and that
what we felt then, we should feel to our
lives' end. And they smiled, the old
people, whilst our young hearts were being
tortured, and talked about the evanescence
of youthful feelings, whilst we drank our
first draught of this world's bitterness.
How seldom can old people sympathise
with the young ! How soon they become
accustomed to the cold neutral tints of
middle age, and forget even the appearance
of the warm fires of youth at which

they lighted those passions which time
has reduced to ashes ! It was so with my
parents : they were not unkind, but they
were unsympathetic ; they rather hoped,
upon the whole, that I should forget Bruce
Armytage ; and, in order to accomplish
their end, they pretended to believe it.
But he went, with the most passionate
protestations upon his lips, that as soon ashe
returned to England, no earthly power
should keep us separate ; and he never
came back to me again ! My father and
mother had died rather suddenly, and
within a few months of each other ; our
home had been broken up, and at the age
of nineteen I had been sent forth upon the
world to earn my own living ; and, at the
age of three-and-twenty, I was at the same
trade, neither richer nor poorer than at first,
but with all my faith in the constancy and
honour of mankind broken and destroyed ;
for Bruce Armytage had never found me
out, or, as far as I knew, inquired after me.
His family had permitted me to leave
Fairmead and enter on my solitary career
without a word of remonstrance or regret ;
since which time I had had no communication
with them, though at that period
my pride would not have forbidden my
sending an account of my trouble to Bruce,

Dj

believing that he cared for me. Correspondence
between us during his foreign
tour had been strictly prohibited, and I
had no means of ascertaining his address.
For a while I had expected he would
write or come to me ; but that hope had
long died out, and the only feeling I had
left for him was contempt — contempt for
his fickleness and vacillation, or the pusillanimity
which could permit him to give up
the woman he had sworn to marry because
his father ordered him to do so. No !
filial obedience carries very little weight
with the heart that is pitted against it ; and
as I thought of it and him, I bit my lip,
dashed my hand across my eyes, and hoped
the day might yet come when I should be
able to show Bruce Armytage how greatly
I despised him.

At this juncture the housemaid came
bustling into the room with a little note
for me — a dear little cocked-hat note —
which seemed to speak of something
pleasant, and at the writer of which I
had no need to guess, for I had but one
friend in Rockledge who ever sent such
notes to me.

Waiting for an answer,' said the bearer
curtly ; and I tore it open and devoured
its contents.

Dear Lizzie, — I think you will be
very much surprised to hear that your
little friend Amy is engaged to be married !
However, it is quite true, although the
business was only settled this morning ;
and the young gentleman has promised
to spend the evening with us, and to bring
a cousin whom he is anxious to introduce.
Will you come and take tea with us also ?
The doctor has only just told me that
Lady Cunningham dines out to-night, or
I should have sent before. Do come,
Lizzie. Amy is crazy to see you and tell
you all her secrets, and you know that you
are always sure of a welcome from your
affectionate friend,

Mary Dwell.'

The perusal of this little epistle threw me
into perfect whirl of excitement and delight,
which would have appeared extraordinary
to any one who had not been acquainted
with the maddening monotony of my daily
existence. These Dwells, the family of
the good old doctor who attended Lady
Cunningham, were my only friends in
Rockledge, the only people with whom I
ever caught a glimpse of a happy domestic
life, such as had been once my own. To
spend the evening at their large, old-fashioned

house, which rang from basement
to attic with the sound of happy
voices, was the only dissipation by which
my days were ever varied, and a relaxation
all the more precious because, on account
of Lady Cunningham's requirements, it
came so rarely to me. And on the afternoon
in question, when I had allowed myself
to become absorbed by fanciful thought,
the cordial and unexpected invitation
warmed my chilled spirits like a draught
of generous wine. All things seemed
changed for me : I no longer saw the grey
fog nor remembered my mournful past,
but in their stead pictured to myself the
brightly-lighted, crimson-curtained room
at Dr Rodwell's house, and heard the
ringing laughter and merry jests of his
many boys and girls. In a moment I had
shaken off my despondency — my eyes
sparkled, my heart beat : I was in a flutter
of anticipation at the pleasure in store forme.


Is there any answer, miss ? ' demanded
the housemaid, who had been waiting
whilst I read my note.

Yes, yes ; I will go, of course. Say I
will be there in half-an-hour,' I replied, for
my evening, in consequence of Lady Cunningham's
absence, was at my own disposal.

And, Mary, please bring me up a jug of
hot water ; I am going to take tea with
Mrs Rodweli;

'Well, I'm very glad of it, miss; it's a
shame you shouldn't have a holiday oftener
than you do,' returned my sympathising
hearer as she departed with my answer.

I must say that, during my years of
servitude, I had nothing to complain of
respecting the treatment I received from
the hands of servants. I have read of
needy companions and governesses being
cruelly insulted and trampled on by their
inferiors ; I never was. From the first
they saw I was a gentlewoman, and to the
last they treated me as such.

With a hasty vote of thanks to Mary
for her kind speech, I ran upstairs to my
own bedroom to make the few preparations
needful for my visit. I knew that Mrs
Rodweli would not desire me to dress ;
but to arrange my hair anew with a blue
ribbon woven in it, and to change my dark
merino body for a clear muslin Garibaldi,
made me look fresh and smart, without
taking up too much of the precious time I
had to spend at her house. Besides, were
there not to be some gentlemen present }
At that thought my mind reverted to the
wonderful news of Amy's engagement, and

I could scarcely proceed with my toilet for
thinking of it. Little Amy ! younger by
five years than myself, who had always
appeared so shy and modest and retiring
was it possible she could have had a
lover without my knowing it ? And now
to be actually engaged ! going to be married
at her age ! It almost seemed incredible,
until I remembered with a sudden shah
that I had been no older myself when
Bruce Armytage proposed to me, and had
been able to keep my secret very well until
the necessity for doing so was over.

But I would not let such thoughts
engross me now, for I had no wish lo
carry a long face to Mrs Rodwell's house ;
and so I hurried on the remainder of my
things, and wrapping myself up warmly
in a dark cloak, hurried bravely out vino
the evening air. It was then six o'clock,
and the fog was denser than before ; but
what cared I for outer dulness an longer .^
My imagination ran on before me, vividly
picturing the cheerful scene in which I
should so soon mingle and my feet
tripped after it joyous as my heart. I
had not far to go, and my eagerness
shortened the way ; so that in a few
minutes I was rapping at Dr Rodwell's
hall door and scraping my feet upon his

k

scraper. How quickly it was opened
by little Amy herself! And what a mixture
of bashfulness, pleasure, and self-importance
was in her blushing face as
I threw my arms around her neck and
warmly congratulated her.

Come upstairs, Lizzie she entreated ina
whisper ; ' come up and take off your
things, and I'll tell you all about it.'

We were soon in her own room — that
cosy room in which she and her younger
sister Mattie slept, and which bore so
many evidences of their mother's tender
care and thought for them.

And so you are really engaged to
be married, Amy ? ' I exclaimed as the
door closed behind us. ' That was a very
astounding piece of intelligence to me,
who had never heard the faintest whisper
of such a thing before.'

You forget you have not been near
us for a month,' she answered, laughing ;
but the truth is, Lizzie, it was all so
uncertain till this morning that mamma
said it would be very unwise to mention
it to anybody ; so that you were the first
recipient of the news, after all.'

Well, I suppose I must be satisfied
with that ; and when did you meet him,
Amy?'

Last month, up in London, while I was
staying with my Aunt Chatsworth.'

And is it a settled thing, then ?'

Oh yes ! His parents have consented,
and are coming to Rockledge on purpose
to call on us. And — and — ke came down
this morning to tell papa ; and I believe
we are to be married in the spring.'

'So sooner*' I ejaculated, thinking how
easily some people's courtships ran.

Yes,' replied Amy, blushing ; ' and he
is here this evening, you know, with his
cousin, who is staying at Rockledge with
him. He talked so much about this
cousin, but oh ! he is not half so nice-looking
as himself ; and — and — I hope
you will like him, Lizzie dear,' kissing me
affectionately as she spoke, ' for I have
told him so much about you.'

I am sure I shall, Amy,' I replied as I
returned her caress ; we were on the
staircase at the time, descending to the
dining-room. * I assure you I am quite
impatient to see your hero. By-the-bye,
dear, what is his name ? '

Armytage.' And then, seeing my
blank look of amazement, she repeated
it — ' Armytage. Have you never heard
the name before ? I think it's such a
pretty one. Amy Armytage,' she whispered

finally in my ear, as, laughing
merrily, she pushed me before her into
the dining-room.

It was all done so suddenly that I had
no time to think about it, for before the
echo of her words had died away, I was in
the midst of the family group, being
warmly kissed by Mrs Rod well, and
Mattie, and Nelly, and Lofty, and shaken
hands with by the dear, kind old doctor,
and his rough school-boys.

Well, Lizzie dear,' exclaimed my
motherly hostess, as she claimed me fora
second embrace, * this is quite an unexpected
treat, to have you here to-night ;
I thought we were never going to see
you again. But you look pale, my child ;
I am afraid you are kept too much in
the house. Doctor, what have you been
about, not to take better care of Lizzie ?
You should give her a tonic, or speak to
Lady Cunningham on the subject.'

But the good old doctor stuck both his
fingers into his ears.

Now, I'm not going to have any
talk about pale looks or physic bottles tonight,'
he said ; ' the time for doctoring
to-day is over. Miss Lizzie, you just
come and sit between Tom and me,
and we'll give you something that will

beat all the tonics that were ever Invented.
Here, Battle, pass the scones
and pancakes down this way, will you ?
If you children think you are going to keep
all the good things up at your end of the
table, you are very much mistaken,' and
with no gentle touch my hospitable friend
nearly pulled me down Into his own lap.

Now, doctor ! ' exclaimed Mrs Rod-well,
with an affectation of annoyance,
I will not have you treat my guests in
this way. Lizzie has come to see nne, not
you, and she sits by no side but mine.
Besides, you have not even given me
time to introduce the gentlemen to her.
Lizzie, my dear, we must all be friends
here this evening. Mr Bruce Armytage,
Mr Frederick Armytage — Miss Lacy.
And now, doctor, we'll go to tea as soon
as you please.'

I had known from the moment of my
entering the room that there were strangers
in it, but I had not dared to glance their
way. Amy's announcement of her lover's
name had come too unexpectedly to permit
me to form any fixed Idea upon the
subject, excepting that it was the same as
mine had borne, and yet, when Mrs Rod-well
repeated It with the familiar prefix,
strange to say, I seemed to hear It with

VOL. II. L

no second shock, but to have known the
bitter truth all along.

Not so, however, Bruce Armytage ; for
Mrs Rodwell's introduction was scarcely
concluded before I heard his voice (unforgotten
through the lapse of years) exclaim,
* Miss Lacy ! ' in a tone of surprise,
which could not but be patent to all.

Cold and pulseless as I had felt before,
the mere tones of his voice sent the blood
rushing from my heart to my head, till the
room and the tea-table and the group of
living figures swam before my dazzled
eyes. I felt my weakness, but I determined
all the more that no one else should
guess at it, and mentally stamped upon
my heart to make it steady against the
moment when its energies should be required.


You have met Mr Armytage before,
Lizzie '^ ' said Mrs Rodwell, with a pleasant
astonishment.

Then I lifted my eyes and looked at
him. Good God ! What is the vital force
of this feeling, called love, which Thou
hast given to us, far oftener to prove a
curse than a blessing, that after years of
separation, coldness, and neglect, it has
the strength to spring up again, warm and
passionate as ever, at the sight of a face,

the tone of a voice, or the touch of a hand ?
Has nothing the power to trample Hfe out
of it ? Will it always revive when we
think it most dead, and turn its pale mutilated
features up to the glare of day ?
Shall our mortal dust, even when coffined
in the mould, stir and groan and vainly
strive to make itself heard, as the step of
one whom we have loved passes sorrowfully
over the fresh grass beneath which
we lie ?

I lifted up my eyes, and looked upon
Bruce Armytage, to be able to say truly
if I had met him before. Yes, it was he,
but little altered during our five years of
separation, excepting that he had passed
from a boy to a man. He coloured vividly
beneath my steady gaze ; for a moment I
thought he was about to seize my hand,
but my eyes forbade him, and he shrank
backward.

Mr Armytage and I have met before,'
I said, with a marvellous quietness, in
answer to Mrs Rod well's previous question
— ' when I was living in my old home
at Fairmead ; but that is so many years
ago that we are nothing but strangers to
each other now.'

At these words any purpose which he
might have entertained of claiming me as

an old acquaintance evidently died out of
Bruce Armytage's mind ; for, retreating
a few paces, he bowed coldly to me, and
took a seat, where his proper place now
was, by Amy's side.

Oh, not strangers, my dear — oh no ! *
exclaimed Mrs Rodwell, who had taken
my answer in its literal sense. * You must
all be friends together here, you know, if
it is only for Amy's sake. Mr Frederick
Armytage, will you be so kind as to pass
the muffins up this way ? Thank you !
Now, Lizzie, my dear, you must make a
good tea.'

I sat down between my host and hostess,
triumphant on the subject of the manner
in which I had acquitted myself, and feeling
strong enough for any future trial ;
but before many minutes had elapsed I
was overtaken by a sickly and oppressive
sensation for which I was quite unable to
account. The hot flush which had risen
to my face whilst speaking to Bruce Armytage
died away, leaving a cold, leaden
weight upon my breast instead ; my pulses
ceased their quick leap and took to trembling
; the rich dainties which the doctor
and his wife heaped upon my plate nauseated
me even to contemplate ; and a
whirring confusion commenced in my head.

which obliged me to rally all my forces
before I could answer a simple question.
The noise and laughter of the tea-table
seemed to increase every minute ; and if
one might judge from the incessant giggling
of Amy, Mattie, Nelly, and Lofty,
the two gentlemen at the other end were
making themselves very agreeable. I tried
to eat ; I tried to force the buttered toast
and plum cake and rich preserves down
my throat, but there was something there
which utterly prevented my swallowing
them.

Lizzie, my dear, are you not well ? '
inquired Mrs Rodwell, presently. The
friendly interrogation saved me. I had
just been relapsing into a state of weakness
which might have resulted in hysteria :
her words recalled me to myself. Should
all the table know that I was grieving .'^
Or rather should he — he who had deserted
me, and had forsworn himself, who now
sat by the side of his newly betrothed —
guess that his presence had the slightest
power to affect me ? Good heavens !
where was my pride ? where the contempt
which I had hoped to have an opportunity
of showing for him .-^ I almost sprang
from my chair at the thought.

'Not well, dear Mrs Rodwell!' I exclaimed,

speaking as fast and as shrilly
as people generally do under the circumstances
; ' why, what can make you think
so ? I never felt better In my life. But,
really, you do so oppress me with good
things that It Is quite Impossible I can do
justice to them all, and talk at the same
time. No, doctor, not another piece of cake.
I couldn't, really ; thank you all the same.
You know there Is a limit to all things,
though you never seem to think so where
I am concerned.'

Whilst my voice thus rang out, harshly
and unnaturally, across the table, I felt
the dark eyes of Bruce Armytage were
regarding me from the other end, and
I wished I had the courage to stare
him down, but I had not, By-and-by,
however, when he was again engaged In
conversation, I tried to let my eyes rove
In his direction, as though I were an uninterested
hearer, but the moment that
they reached him, he raised his own as If
by intuition, and my lids dropped again.
I hated myself for this indecision, though
I felt it was but nervousness, and that
were we alone together but for five
minutes I should have strength of mind
to look him in the face, and tell him what
I thought of his behaviour. As it was,

however, It was a great relief to me when
the doctor gave the order to march, and
the whole party adjourned to the drawing-room.
As soon as we had entered it, Amy
left her lover's side and flew to mine.'

Oh, Lizzie,' she whispered as we satin
a corner together, * do tell me what you
think of him ! I am dying to hear. Is he
not very handsome ? '

Very handsome,' I answered with closed
lips.

Much better looking than his cousin ? '

Yes, certainly ; there is no comparison
between them,' which was true, inasmuch
as Frederick Armytage, with his fair hair
and blue eyes, was a washed-out, sickly-looking
creature by the side of his dark,
stalwart cousin Bruce.

I knew you would say so, Lizzie ; I
was sure you would agree with me. But
just fancy your having met Bruce before !
Where was it, and when ? I couldn't ask
you a lot of questions at tea-time, but you
made me so curious.'

Amy,' I said suddenly, for I felt this
was a subject on which she must not be
inquisitive, *when I knew Mr Bruce Armytage,
I was living at home with my
dear father and mother at Fairmead, and
you must be aware that an allusion to

those days cannot be a pleasant allusion
to me. So, please, like a dear girl, don't
ask me any more questions about it, or let
me remember that I ever saw your friend
before I met him here to-nio-ht.'

I won't,' said Amy, submissively. * Poor,
dear Lizzie ! ' and she stroked my hand
with her soft little palm.

And do not mention me to him, either.
Our acquaintance was but a brief one : he
can have no interest left in the matter.'

Oh, but he has though, Lizzie,' with a
shy upward glance. * He was talking
about you all tea-time ; his cousin and I
thought he would never stop. He asked
where you were, and what you were doing,
and seemed so sorry when I told him of
Lady Cunningham, and what a cross old
thing she is, and said several times that he
could not get over the surprise of having
met you here to-night'

Indeed ! He has a more retentive
memory than I have ; you can tell him
so next time he speaks of me.' I answered
so haughtily that little Amy looked timidly
up in my face, and I remembered suddenly
that I was speaking of her lover. ' There
is your mamma beckoning to you. Amy ;
and Mattie and Tom are clearing away the
chairs and tables. I suppose they want a

I

dance. Tell them I shall be charmed to
play for them ; ' and then, seeing that
Bruce Armytage was crossing the room
with a view to seeking Amy, I quickly
left my seat, and taking possession of the
music-stool, commenced to rattle of a polka.
Soon they were all busily engaged in dancing,
and the noise occasioned by their feet
and voices almost prevented my hearing
the conversation which Mrs Rod well, who
had taken up a station with her knitting
close to the piano, addressed to me.

You were very much surprised to hear
our news, hlzz'iQ, I'm sure,' she began, as
she bent toward my ear.

Very much surprised, Mrs Rodwell —
never more so.'

Ah ! ' with a sigh, ' dear Amy is full
young — only eighteen last October, you
know, Lizzie ; but I think she'll be happy.
I'm sure I trust so. He is a very steady
young man, and they are to live in Rock-ledge,
which is a great comfort to me.'

In Rockledge ! ' Was I to undergo
the pain of continual Intercourse with him,
or the alternative of quitting my present
situation ? ' Did I hear you rightly, Mrs
Rodwell ? '

Yes, my dear. His papa, who appears
to be a very pleasant old gentleman, has

decided to set him up in an office here,
that Amy may not be separated from her
family. So thoughtful of him, Lizzie, is it
not?'

Very ! ' I remembered the pleasant old
gentleman's conduct on a similar occasion
more immediately concerning myself, and
could scarcely trust my voice to answer her.

You have heard that Mr Armytage is
in the law, have you not ? ' I nodded my
head : I had heard it. ' A nice profession
so gentlemanly ; and he is a fine-looking
young man too ; don't you think so ? I
have heard that some people prefer his
cousin's looks to his ; but beauty is such a
matter of taste, and Amy is quite satisfied
on the subject. You may stop playing
now, my dear, for they have all done dancing.
Nelly, child, how hot you are ! Come
away at once from the draught of the
door.'

A waltz, a waltz, Lizzie ! ' they all
shouted as they surrounded the piano.

Perhaps Miss Lacy is tired,' suggested
the deep voice of Bruce Armytage. I had
been going to plead for a brief respite, but
at that sound the desire for repose fled,
and without a look in his direction I returned
to the instrument and began to play
the dance they had asked for. But I had

not been so occupied long before I became
aware that some one amongst them continued
to hover about the piano, and felt
by intuition that it was Bruce Armytage.
At that discovery my fingers flew faster
and more gaily, and I regarded the notes
before me with a fixed smile, whilst, in
order to keep up my courage, I kept repeating
to myself: ' He deserted me: he
left me for no fault of mine. My father
and mother died, and he never came near
me in my sorrow. He is fickle, base, dishonourable
— unworthy of regard.' I tried
to set the notes of the waltz that I was
playing to the words, ' Fickle, base, dishonourable
! ' but they refused to be so
matched, and only seemed to repeat instead,
' I loved him, I loved him, I loved
him ! ' and then a blurred mist came before
my eyes, and I had to play from memory ;
for Bruce Armytage had taken up his
station at the back of the piano and was
looking me full in the face.

It is a long time since we met, Miss
Lacy,' he remarked presently, but in so
low a voice that had my hearing not been
sharpened by anger at his daring to address
me, I do not think I should have caught
the words.

Do you think so ? ' I answered carelessly,

for I felt that I must say something.


How can you ask ? Have the last five
years passed so pleasantly as to leave no
evidence of the flight of time ? '

Considering,' I replied, panting with indignation
at what appeared to me such
thorough indifference to my feelings, 'considering,
Mr Armytage, that during the
years you speak of I have lost both my
dear parents, I should think you might
have spared me the allusion.'

Forgive me. I did not mean to wound
you. But if the loss of your parents is the
only loss you have to regret during those
five years, you are happier than some,
Miss Lacy. Death is natural, but there
are griefs (the loss of love and hope, for
instance) almost too unnatural to be borne.'

How dared he, how dared he — he who
had treated me in so cruel and unnatural a
manner himself, who had but just plighted
his faith afresh to my friend — quietly stand
there, looking me in the face with his dark,
searching eyes, and taunt me with the
barrenness of the life which he had made
sterile } Much as I had loved him — much
as I feared I loved him still — I could have
stood up at that moment and denounced
him to them all as a traitor and a coward.

But I thought of Amy, dear little Innocent,
confiding Amy, and I was silent.

*/ have not lost them,' I answered
him, quietly. ' Therefore I cannot sympathise
with your allusion. The death of
my dear parents was more than sufficient
trouble for me ; all else of solace that this
world can give me is mine.'

Do you mean to tell me — ' he commenced
quickly.

I mean to tell nothing,' I replied in the
same cold tones. ' I am not in the habit
of discussing my private affairs with strangers.
Had you not better go to Amy ? I
see that she is sitting out this dance.'

Upon which he gravely Inclined his head
in acquiescence, and left me to myself.

Lizzie, Lizzie, how fast you have been
playing! We are all out of breath,' exclaimed
Battle, as she and Tom danced upto
my side. ' Get up, there's a good girl,
and let me take your place ; we are going
to have a game of " Magical Music." Tom,
will you go out first "^ That's right ; now,
girls, what shall we hide ? Oh, papa's
keys ; they will do, and then, if he wants
them, he will take quite an interest incoming
and joining in the game himself.'

I resigned my seat, and stole a hasty
glance at the other end of the room. Mrs

Rodwell was busily engaged upon her
knitting, and Bruce was sitting on an ottoman
close by Amy's side ; so, gasping for
fresh air and one moment's solitude, and
unperceived by the laughing group of children,
I left the apartment and ran hastily
up to the bedroom which I had first entered.
The gas was lighted there, and the fire
burned warmly on the hearth, but in my
present state of feeling neither warmth nor
licht was what I most desired. I felt as
though I were choking — as though, if no
relief were at hand, I must scream aloud,
or dash my head against the wall, for my
nerves were overstrung, and the demon of
hysteria was gaining strength with every
minute, and I almost feared would win the
victory. But pride came to my assistance
that mighty supporter of human weakness
— and flying to the window, I raised
the sash and leaned my head out of it,
drinking in deep draughts of the foggy
night air. And as I did so, watching the
bustle in the street below, and the calm
stars in the sky above, I felt strength return
to me, — strength, not to avoid suffering,
but to suffer in patience. The tears
rose to my eyes and fell quietly over my
cheeks, and as they fell they seemed to dissolve
the hard, dry lump which had settled

/ :)

in my throat and threatened to deprive me
of breath. I thought of Bruce Armytage
as I had known him in the past, and my
tears fell fast for the loss I had sustained
in him ; but I thought of him also as I saw
him in the present, and pride and jealousy
made me dash them from my eyes, and
resolve that if I died — yes, if I died of
grief and love and longing combined — he
should never have the gratification of knowing
that I had retained one particle of my
old affection for him. With which intent I
hurried on my walking things, determined
not to expose myself any longer to the
danger of betrayal ; but before I had
finished doing so, Mrs Rodwell was in the
room, all anxiety to know wdiat had occasioned
my sudden absence.

What is the matter, Lizzie ? Did you
feel the heat of the room ? Why, my dear
child, you are never going ! It is only just
nine o'clock.'

Yes, dear Mrs Rodwell, I think I had
better do so. Lady Cunningham will not
be late to-night, and you know how particular
she is about my being home before
her. Please let me go.'

Well, dear, it must not be so long again
before we see you. We must try and get up
a few parties this winter, as It will be Amy's

last in the home circle. And mind, Lizzie,
you are to be one of her bridesmaids ; she
insists upon it.'

Ah ! She is very kind, as you all are,
but we will talk of that when the time
comes. Good night, dear Mrs Rodwell.
Kiss the girls for me. I won't go into the
drawing-room, such a figure as I am.'

But Mrs Rodwell accompanied me down
the stairs, conversing as she went.

I am sorry the doctor is from home,
my dear ; he would have seen you round
to Northampton Lodge ; but he is never
to be depended on from one hour to
another, you know.'

Oh, it is of no consequence, Mrs Rod-well
; I am used to going alone.'

But I don't half like your doing it,
Lizzie : the night is so very dark, and — '

Allow me to have the pleasure of
accompanying Miss Lacy, Mrs Rodwell,'
said the voice of Bruce Armytage. We
had reached the drawing-room floor bv
that time, and he stood on the threshold
of the open door.

No, no ! ' I exclaimed, as I shrank
backward ; 'I do not desire it — I would
rather go alone ; ' and with a hasty kiss
on Mrs Rodwell's cheek, I ran down the
remaining stairs and out at the hall door.

The wind was blowing fresh and cold as
I turned into the open air, and the night
was very dark, but I thought of nothing
but his offer to accompany me, and I
hurried onward. Did he wish to add
insult to injury ?

But I had not gone far when I heard
the sound of footsteps running after me ;
and I had hardly realised it was indeed
himself before he was by my side, apologising
for his presence by the excuse that
Mrs Rodwell had desired him to overtake
me and see me home. Would I forgive
what might otherwise seem an intrusion
to me ? I was too indignant to vouchsafe
him any answer.

We walked on in silence side by side
for several minutes, I with my head bent
down and holding my thick cloak around
me, and he vainly endeavouring to look
me in the face. At last, as though making
a great effort, he cleared his throat, and
said, —

I suppose, after the manner in which
you spoke to me at the piano this evening,
my pride ought to forbid my attempting
any further explanation with you, but in
this case I have one feeling more powerful
than pride, Miss Lacy, and I must ask
you what you meant by saying that all

VOL. II. M

that this world could give of solace was
yours ? '

I meant what I said I answered abruptly,
'or rather, that I require no pity
from you or any other stranger. Our
paths in life are widely enough divided
now : let each walk in his own track,
without interfering with the other.'

That is easier said than done, perhaps
he replied ; * it is difficult in this world for
people to forget what they have been.'

It does not appear so to me.'

Ah, perhaps you are differently, more
happily, constituted than most. They told
me so long ago, though I did not believe
them. Will you consider an old friend
impertinent for asking if that from which
you derive your solace now is the same
from which you derived it then ? and if
so, why I still find you unsettled in
life?'

You are speaking in riddles,' I replied.
I do not understand you.'

Your present engagement — is it the
same which separated us ? Do not be
afraid to tell me the truth, Lizzie. I have
borne a good deal in my lifetime, and am
proof against suffering.'

His voice was so tender and kind, so
much like the voice which I remembered

In the old days of our love, that It won
me to listen to him quietly.

My engagement!' I echoed in surprise.
'What are you talking of? I have never
been engaged — never since' — and then I
halted, fearing what my revelation might
suggest to him.

'What do you tell me?' he exclaimed.
What object have you in deceiving me ?
Were you not engaged, even before your
parents' death, to young Hassell, of Fair-mead,
and was it not by his father's means
that your present situation was procured
for you ? I little thought to meet you
here,' he added bitterly. ' I imagined you
were married long ago, or I should have
been more careful of my own feelings.
And now you are engaged for the third
time ! How easily life runs for some
people ! '

Who could have told you such a falsehood
? ' I said, turning to him. ' It is true
that old Mr Hassell stood my friend when
I had not one in the world, and that he
found my present situation for me ; but as
to beinor enoraored to his son, whv, he is
2l married man — he married my own
cousin.'

Could the mistake have arisen so ? '
said Bruce Armytage, as he seized my

hand. * Oh, Lizzie, do not be angry ;
think what I have gone through ! When
I returned home from that wretched foreign
tour, during which I was not allowed to
correspond with you, the first news which
I heard from my own family was, that
your father and mother had died some
eighteen months before, and that you were
engaged to Robert Hassell, and living with
some old lady (no one could tell me where)
until the time for your marriage arrived.
I would not believe them ; I rushed down
to Fairmead myself to make inquiries, and
reached there on the very day of young
Hassell's wedding with Miss Lacy. Do
you think I was a coward not to stop and
see the bride, believing her to be yourself ?
Perhaps I was ; but I flew from the spot
as though I had been haunted ; and I
suffered — ah, Lizzie, I cannot tell how
much ! It is so fearful, so awful a thing
to teach one's self to believe the heart in
which we have trusted to be faithless and
unworthy.'

I know it,' I said in a low voice, which
was nearly choked by my tears.

How I have lived since that time I can
hardly tell you,' he continued as he pressed
my hand. (I knew it ought not to remain
in his, but it was so sweet to feel it there.)

I have had very little hope, or peace, or
happiness, though I have struggled on
through it all, and made myself a name in
my profession. And then to meet you
again to-night so unexpectedly, still free,
but promised to another, myself and my
love so evidently forgotten, and to feel
that it has been but a chance that separated
us ! Oh ! Lizzie, it is almost harder than
it was at first ! '

I am not engaged,' I answered, sobbing ;
you choose to take my words at the piano
as meaning so, but it was your mistake,
not mine. I have lived much in the
manner you describe yourself to have done
not very happily, perhaps, and finding
my best relief in work. But I am glad to
have met you, Bruce — glad to have heard
from your own lips what parted us ; and I
thank you for this explanation, though it
comes too late.'

But why too late, my dearest ? ' he
exclaimed joyfully. ' Why, if you are free
to accept my hand, and can forgive all
that has made us so unhappy in the past,
should we not bury our mutual trouble in
mutual love ? Oh, Lizzie, say that you'll
be mine — say that you'll be my own wife,
and help me to wipe out the remembrance
of this miserable mistake ! '

I thought of Amy. I looked at him
with astonishment ; I recoiled from him
almost with disgust. Was I to accept
happiness at the expense of that of my
dear friends, of the only creatures who had
shown me any affection during my long
years of exile from him ? Oh no. I
would rather perish in my solitude. The
very fact that he could propose it to me
made him sink lower in my estimation.

Bruce,' I exclaimed, * you must be
mad, or I am mad so to tempt you from
your duty. Think of all your offer involves
— of the distress, the disappointment,
the shame it would entail on those who
have been more than friends to me ; and
consider if it is likely I could be so dishonourable
to them as to take advantage
of it.'

I don't understand you, my darling,'
he said, with a puzzled look.

Not understand ? ' I reiterated, in
surprise, ' when your engagement to Amy
Rodwell was only settled this morning,
and the preliminaries for your marriage
are already being talked of ! Would you
break her heart in the attempt to heal
mine ? Bruce, we must never see each
other again after this evening.'

Oh, Lizzie, Lizzie ! ' he said, shaking

his head, * we are playing at dreadful cross-purposes.
Did it never enter into your
wise little pate to inquire which Mr Armytage
was going to marry Amy Rodwell ?
I can assure you I have no desire or intention
to risk getting a pistol-shot through
my heart for stepping into my cousin
Frederick's shoes.'

And is it really — is it really, then,
Frederick whom she is going to marry ? '
I exclaimed, breathless with the shock of
this new intelligence. ' Oh, how can she ? '

It is indeed,' he answered, laughing.
Lizzie, did you seriously think that it was
I ? Why, what a taste you must give me
credit for, to choose that pretty little piece
of white-and-pink china, after having had
the chance of such a woman as yourself!
And now, what is my answer ? '

What it was I leave for my readers to
guess. Let those who have thirsted until
life's blood lay as dry dust in their veins,
thrust the chalice of sparkling wine from
their parched lips if they will : I am not
made of such stern stuff as that.

THE END.

HE death of a child is at all times
a subject of mournful interest :
it is so sad to see the hereditary
curse falling on the innocent
heads of those who in themselves have
done nothing to merit the punishment of
sin. But when the lost child is an only-child,
or an only son, our sympathies with
the bereavement are increased tenfold ; so
proud do we know each other to be, of
perpetuating the frailties of which we are
but too conscious, and leaving behind us
an inheritor of the misery we have endured.
And if ordinary children (of which a few
hundreds more or less in the world make
little difference) are to be thus bewailed,
what words can paint strongly enough the

condolence with which we should approach
the subject of that royal parent who so
lately lost at one stroke his only son, and
(in the direct line) the sole heir to his
throne ! The interest felt by all Englishmen
in the royal family of Belgium lies
deeper than in the mere fact of their near
connection with our own Sovereign and her
lamented consort. From the time that the
first Leopold came over, a gallant bridegroom,
to our shores, to wed the Princess
Charlotte (that darling of the nation), and
left them so shortly afterwards widowed
and childless, we have taken almost as
keen an interest in all that concerned him
and his children as though death had never
stepped in to sever the link between us.
And this feeling has been warmly kept upas
much by the condescension with which
Leopold IL has followed in the footsteps
of his father, by taking an interest in all
things British, and showing the utmost
courtesy to, and consideration for, the
foreigners of that nation residing in his
dominions, as by the intimate relations
maintained between the royal families of
England and Belgium.

It may be said, then, and without exaggeration,
that when the sad news that the
young Due de Brabant had at last succumbed

to the cruel malady which had
kept him in constant suffering, and the
nation's hopes in a state of fluctuation for
nine months past, was disseminated
throughout Brussels, his royal parents received
as much sympathy in their sorrow
from the English residents in that capital
as from their own people. The Belgians
mourned their future king ; but we wept
with the father and mother over the cradle
of their only son.

The loss was not an ordinary one, for
the child was not an ordinary child ; and
this assertion is made, not from newspaper
gleanings, but the report of those who
knew him intimately. His photograph
confirms this fact ; for the calm, sensible
face depicted there has none of the careless,
laughter-loving expression which characterises
his age ; although when in health
the Due de Brabant is said to have been
as playful and merry as other little children.
But sickness came too soon to rob his
features of all but the serene patience which
became habitual to them, and before any
change could arrive to restore their original
expression he has passed away from
amongst us, and nothing remains to recall
his memory but the few words which can be
written of so innocent and uneventful a life.

Leopold - Ferdinand - Else-victors Albert-marie,
Due de Brabant, Comte de Hanau,
and Due de Saxe, was born at the palace
of Laeken, on the 12th of June 1859. He
was the second child of his parents, after
ten years of wedded life, consequently his
birth was hailed with all the greater acclamation
for fulfilling hope deferred to the
hearts of his people. When born, he had
every appearance of possessing a robust
constitution, being plump and well made,
with broad shoulders and an open chest ;
with a formation, in fact, containing the
promise of so much muscular strength, that
the obstinate ravages of the fatal disease
which has taken him from us have been a
matter of surprise to all who knew the
child as he once was.

The method of his bringing up, also, and
the careful manner in which his studies
and employments were regulated, should
have tended to increase, rather than detract
from, the bodily health which he bid fair
to enjoy. His education, entrusted to M.
le Comte Vanderstraeten-Ponthoz, and to
Monsieur le Lieutenant Donny, was skilfully
directed In such a way as to maintain
a wholesome equilibrium between the development
of his physical force and that of
the brilliant mental faculties with which

the young prince was gifted. The employment
of his time was carved out with the
greatest minuteness, and out-door exercises
alternated with mental labour so as to procure
for both mind and body the repose
they needed. The prince invariably left
his bed at six in summer, and seven in
winter, and breakfasted an hour after he
rose ; when he worked with his tutor till
ten o'clock. A run in the park or a ride
on his pony served him for recreation ;
and at one he joined his father and mother
at luncheon — a meal which the king and
queen always took en famille. Before
resuming his studies, the little prince went
out again with his tutor, dined at six, and
was then at liberty to amuse himself until
his bedtime, which was fixed for eisfht
o'clock. Such a life could hurt no one :
no enforced studies were exacted from his
tender brain, nor was the heir of Belgium
sacrificed to the desire to see him turn out
a prodigy ; he lived as other happy and
well - cared - for children live, making his
short life one long holiday ; and, until
within ten months of his decease, showed
no symptoms whatever of ill-health.

Then the first signs of sickness, said to
be consequent on the suppression of some
childish disorder, became apparent, and

increased until they culminated in pericarditis,
or inflammation of the membranes of
the heart, the affection which ultimately
destroyed him. At its commencement,
this complaint had all the appearance of a
heavy cold, accompanied by a dry, violent
cough, which was soon followed by a pallid
face and wasted figure, the sure signs of
impoverished blood.

When the first grave consultation had
confirmed the diagnostic of the attendant
physicians, that the pericardium or membrane
of the heart was affected, all the
efforts of science were immediately put in
requisition to arrest the progress of the
evil ; but without avail, for they proved
powerless to stay the rapid decline of his
natural powers, by dropsy, the usual effect
of heart disease. The swelling of the
stomach and chest of the poor little invalid
now became enormous ; the respiratory
organs no longer performed their office,
and the cough redoubled in intensity. It
became most distressing, scarcely ceasing
day or night; and the gravest fears began to
be entertained for his lungs. The apartments
of the prince, though large and airy,
and situated on the ground floor of the right
wing of the palace of Laeken, and opening
on the park, did not contain sufficient vital

air for his need. When It was necessary to
close the windows of the chamber, which was
only done at night (for the suffering child
found no relief except in a free current of
air), servants placed on either side his bed
kept up a continual fanning, and by that
means occasionally gained him a few moments
of repose. Every morning, under
the guardianship of his tutor, Monsieur
Donny, the prince was taken into the parkin
a little pony-carriage led by a groom,
and made the tour of the domain four or
five times. Towards the middle of the
journey the pony and servant were changed,
for the promenade was long, and often
occupied several hours ; and, occasionally,
the poor father and mother, so soon to be
bereaved, might be seen following on horseback,
and wistfully regarding the little carriage
which held the object of their dearest
hopes. It was a triste and melancholy
procession, and resembled a funeral cortege
more than anything else.

Towards one o'clock the prince would
stop, generally near the aviary of pheasants,
and lunch with his preceptor ; for, strange
to say, his appetite, though feeble, never
abandoned him until the very last. Soon
the carriage was again in motion and making
the circuit of the park, for it was only

by a continual change of air that the poor
child was enabled to breathe with any ease.
The affection of the prince for Monsieur
Donny was incredible. Throughout his
illness he insisted upon his being continually
at his side, would not take his meals
without him, and obliged him to sleep in
his apartments ; and Monsieur Donny (although
he had been married but a few
weeks when the first serious symptoms of
illness appeared) never quitted the royal
child for a moment until he was carried
out of the palace of Laeken for the last
time. About the month of October there
appeared to be some amelioration in the
prince's condition, and hopes were almost
confidently entertained of his ultimate restoration
to health. But these hopes were
of short duration, although the bulletins,
issued daily, fluctuated so much in their
statements that it was difficult to arrive
at a knowledge of the truth. The king
is said to have had no hope from the commencement
of the disorder, and his despair
was proportionately great. His grief was
so profound that he became a mere shadow
of himself ; and yet, with that manly fortitude
which resists an open expression of
what it feels, might be seen at all times,
pacing the palace and gardens of Laeken

with calm dry eyes, but a fixed, mournful
look, which seemed as though he had always
before him a vision of the pitiless
death which was about to strike him in his
tenderest affections.

At night he would constantly rise from
his own bed to go with bare feet and
noiseless step, and hang over the couch
where his child, with angelic patience, was
awaiting his doom. This patience, so calm
as to appear almost unnatural, and which
excites surprise in those who have not
nursed little children through mortal illnesses,
seems to have been a characteristic
of this little child. Numberless anecdotes
have, of course, been related of him during
the last months, many of which are totally
without foundation, but one in particular
was so widely spread that it gained
general credence. It was the fact of his
feigning sleep when suffering great pain
if he heard the approach of his father's
footstep, lest he should be questioned
relative to his state, and read the disappointment
his answer must have caused.
If I pretend to sleep,' he used to say to
his attendants, ' my father will think that
I am better.'

But during the daytime his father was
seldom absent from his side, and was

VOL. II. N

never weary of trying to extract some
slight support on which to hang hope by
questioning the child as to his feelings
and symptoms. One day, when the little
tragedy was drawing very near its close,
and the prince was suffering from one of
those attacks which so often threatened
to be fatal, the king approached the bed
to learn some news of his condition, and
receiving, for the first time, no reply save
such as was conveyed by the languid,
half-raised eyes.

Je vous ennuie, n'est ce pas, mon
enfant ! ' he exclaimed ; and unable to
control his feelings, rushed away into the
park in order to conceal them.

On Christmas - day the king, in an
attempt, if possible, to distract the child's
mind, had a large Christmas-tree set up
in the midst of his apartment, made brilliant
with wax tapers, and hung with
numbers of beautiful playthings and other
ornaments calculated to attract one of his
age.

The Due de Brabant, after having duly
admired the tree and its belongings, and
appearing to take pleasure in examining
and handling the playthings with which
it was laden, asked his attendants to bring
a large box to his bedside; and having

seen all his presents packed away in it,
gave it to Doctor Henriette (one of his
attendant physicians), and begged him to
distribute its contents amongst the little
invalids in the hospital. This is but one
trait amongst a thousand from which might
have been predicated what sort of king
this child, if spared, would eventually have
made. He was positively adored by the
people of the royal household — those servants
who were under his control ; and
by seeing him play at sovereign with
whom one read the natural nobility of
his yet undeveloped character. When
any of his servants had committed a fault
and deserved a reprimand from the officer
on duty, the Due de Brabant would accuse
himself of the negligence in order to save
the real offender from punishment. He
was nursed throughout his illness by two
Soeurs de Charite, who paid him the utmost
attention, and of whom he became
proportionately fond. It was said that on
the first of January the Due de Brabant
asked his father for the sum of six thousand
francs : ' Pour ces deux anges qui me
villains.' This anecdote was afterwards
contradicted ; but it possesses at least the
merit of giving the general idea of the
disposition of Leopold Ferdinand. His

was the most generous little heart possible,
and he would have despoiled himself of
everything to make one creature happy.

On Thursday evening, the twenty-first
of January, when it became known in
Laeken that the prince was really dying,
the whole community was in commotion ;
and when towards nine o'clock the report
was spread that all was over, nothing was
to be seen but mournful and downcast
countenances, and the commissioner of
police was forced to reassure the people
by telling them that the child still lived.
These sentiments were but natural, for the
progress of the disease had been suspended
during so many months that the dangerous
state of the royal invalid was but
thoroughly realised. The public had begun
to think that the doctors must be mistaken
in their diagnostics ; and thus, when the
bulletins from the palace intimated that
there was a fatal aggravation of the symptoms,
the news could not fail to throw the
whole country into a state of consternation.
The last agony of the unfortunate child
(whose sufferings had been greatly accelerated
ever since the fourteenth of January)
commenced at five in the evening of the
twenty-first, and did not terminate till forty
minutes past twelve, at which time he drew

his last breath in a long sigh of relief.
MM. Henriette and Wimmer, who had so
assiduously tended the royal child since
the appearance of the disease to which he
succumbed, were summoned to the palace
of Laeken by a despatch from M. le Comte
Vanderstraeten - Pontoon a few minutes
after the last crisis had commenced, and
did not again quit the bedside of the
invalid, though they had the grief of seeing
all their science powerless to do more than
assist at the last moments of him whose
life but a few months before they had
hoped to save.

From the time the crisis set in, Prince
Leopold - Ferdinand recognised no one,
although his intelligence was not completely
obscured ; for when the king or
queen spoke to him, he appeared to
understand what they said, although it
was impossible for him to respond, even
by a gesture, to the loving words which
were lavished upon him. He died, as so
beloved a child should die, between his
father and mother, who, during the last
hours, never quitted his side. In his
chamber at this time were Madame la
Duchesse d'Ursel, mistress of the queen's
household ; Monsieur le Comte Wanders
Pontoon, mareschal of the palace ;

Monsieur Donny, the prince's preceptor ;
MM. Henriette and Wimmer, the two
Soeurs de Charite who had nursed him
through his illness, and the two 
of the Due de Brabant. All
were silent, as, awe-stricken, they waited,
in the midst of that calm night, to hear
the rustling wings of the Angel of Death ;
and the peaceful solemnity of the last hour
was undisturbed, save by the voice of the
chaplain who recited the prayers for the
dying. Monseigneur le Comte de Flanders,
brother to the king, who had been summoned
to the palace by the same despatch
which had brought MM. Henriette and
Wimmer, arrived there at half-past ten,
and quitted Laeken again at midnight ;
he was not, therefore, present at the last
moments of his nephew. It was the same
with Monsieur Devaux, the king's secretary,
who retired at half-past nine to his own
apartments.

When all was over, and life had finally
quitted the poor little body which had
suffered so much, the father and mother,
one after another, strained the corpse in
their arms, and covered it with kisses, until
the king, desirous of sparing the queen so
mournful a spectacle, led her by force from
the couch where rested the inanimate remains

of the sole heir to their crown. On
the morning following his decease the body
of the little prince was completely robed
in white, and placed on the bed in the
chamber where he had died, and which is
next to that in which his grandfather,
Leopold I., drew his last breath. A crown
of white roses, fresh and pure as his own
brief life, was placed on the pillar immediately
above his head, and a little virgin,
with several playthings with which he had
essayed to wile away some of the weary
hours of pain, were placed at the foot of
his couch. An altar was improvised on a
large chest of drawers, placed between
two windows of his bedroom, where a
crucifix hung in the midst of lighted candles,
converting the chamber of death into a temporary
chapel. Here the Soeurs de Charite
watched the dead child through the night,
as they had watched him for so many previous
months.

The body of the little prince was not
embalmed, as the queen steadfastly set her
face against such a proceeding, but was interred
in the same condition in which he
had died. The corpse was not at all decomposed,
but it was terribly thin. The
face wore the pallor of marble, and was not
at all swollen or otherwise disfigured. The

child appeared to sleep, and so he did, although
the sleep will be eternal. On the
same day the following proclamation was
placed on the walls of the capital : —

Aux Habitants de Bruxelles.

CoNCiTOYENS, — Le pays vient d reprover
une perte immense. Le Prince Royal
a succumb cette nuit au mal cruel qui mena-sait
depuis longtemps une existence si precious
a tous les Beiges. La population
de Bruxelles, fidele aux sentiments unalterable
quelle a votes a une dynastie bien-aimed
pleura longtemps le jeune Prince
dont elle avait entire le bureau de tant
d amour et de si ceres appearances.

Fait al'Hotel de Ville, le 22 Janvier, 1869.

Par le College, le Secretaire, 'Le College,

'A. Lacomble. Jules Anspach/

The following letter of condolence, addressed
by the permanent deputation of the
Provincial Council of Brabant, to their
bereaved king and queen, appears to me
so touchingly worded, that give It In the
original, fearful of spoiling by translating
it:—

*Sire, Madame, — II a plu a la Providence
de nous envoyer au milieu de nos

prosperity, une bien douloureuse epreuve.
Le Prince Royal est mort ! . . . mort
avant devoir accompli sa dixieme anne !
. . Ce coup cruel, que nos voeux n'ont
pu conjurer, nous frappe tous au coeur. II
ravit un fils a votre amour, a nous le jeune
Prince promis a de hautes et si precious
destinies. Dans une adversity si grande,
nous le Savons, toutes les paroles sont
vaines. II y a des afflictions que rien ne
console. Nous pouvons, du moins, meter
la tristesse de nos regrets a Famertume des
votes, et, associates a votre legitime douleur,
souffrir et pleurer avec vous.

Oui, pleurons ! Mais gardens une en-there
confiance dans I'avenir! Dieu n'a
pas cesse de protege la Belgique et la
dynastie qui lui est inseparablement unie.

La deputation permanente du Conseil
Provincial du Brabant.'

After which followed the signatures of
the president and those members of the
council who signed the address in the name
of the entire body.

But the loyal sympathy of the Belgians
did not vent itself in words only. As soon
as the death of their young prince was
officially announced, black flags on the
Belgian colours, smothered in crape, were

displayed from the balconies of the principal
houses, whilst the fronts of many of
them were completely hung with funereal
drapery, and most of the shops and all
places of amusement were closed. The
ships lying in the Belgian ports lowered
their flags half-mast high, in sign of the
general mourning ; and all the principal
families in Brussels, and most of the English
residents appeared in black.

The bells of the cathedral and other
churches kept tolling at intervals during
the first and succeeding days, to announce
the melancholy news ; all fetes and public
rejoicing were suspended, as well as private
balls and concerts ; and the ministerial
conferences were adjourned.

Meanwhile the body of the young prince,
which had been watched ever since his
death by the officers of the household, was
placed in a triple coffin, lined with white
silk, in the presence of the king and queen,
the Archbishop of Malines, and several
members of the royal household. This
melancholy ceremony of bidding the last
earthly adieu, is said to have been, as is
natural, the occasion of a most heartrending
scene. The young prince had received the
insignia of the Chevalier de la Toison door
d'Espagne, shortly after the ascension of

his father Leopold II. to the throne ; and
this insignia was placed on his coffin during
the funeral obsequies — which were
fixed to take place at eleven o'clock on
Monday, the twenty-fifth ; at which time also
was to be performed (according to the rites of
the Roman Catholic religion), in the church
of Notre-dame at Laeken, the first funeral
mass for the repose of his innocent soul.

Accordingly, before eight o'clock on the
morning of the day appointed, a procession
of people eager to witness the ceremony
lined the road to the church and palace of
Laeken. At the palace, the guests were
received in the rotunda, where they had to
await the arrival of the body, to form themselves
in cortege. Monsieur le Baron
Prise, adjutant of the Palace, and Monsieur
de Wyckersloth were appointed to
receive them. Only a very few were admitted
into the temporary chapel, where
rested the mortal remains of the little
prince ; and which was most tastefully decorated.
The walls and ceiling were
draped with black ; an altar had been
erected between the two windows, before
which stood the coffin, supported on a
small black bier. It was covered with a
white pall, embroidered with a large golden
cross, upon which lay a wreath of white

roses. This erection, lighted by four
gold candelabra on black pedestals, and a
chandelier from the telling, under which
the coffin rested, had a very solemn and
imposing effect. On the black drapery
with which the room was hung, were shields
emblazoned with the royal arms. At a
quarter to eleven the clergy arrived. They
consisted of the Archbishop of Allies,
the Bishops of Belgium, accompanied by
their canons and secretaries ; the rectors
of the parishes of Laeken and the capital ;
several envoys from the provinces, and a
representative of each of the religious
orders now established in Brussels. At
their arrival at the palace, which they
entered two by two, the principal members
of the clergy were admitted Into the temporary
chapel, where were already assembled
Hem. the King; H.R.H. the
Comte de Flandre ; Monseigneur la Prince
de LIgne ; and several officers of the household,
amongst which was Monsieur Donny,
the prince's tutor, who since the morning
could not be persuaded to quit the remains
of his beloved pupil. After the usual
prayers, the coffin was delivered into the
hands of some of the non-commissioned
officers of the army, and such of the Garde-cinque
as had been deputed to carry it to

its last resting-place. The coffin was of
black wood, with silver nails and ornaments
; lions' heads formed the handles,
and a splendid ivory crucifix was on the
lid, but there was no plate, descriptive of
the name or distinctions of the deceased
child.

As soon as the coffin had been placed
on the bier on which it was to be carried,
the white pall with its golden cross was
thrown over it, and the funeral cortege was
set in motion. The pall was held by MM.
les General Chazal and Pletinckx ; MM.
Frere-Orban, Minister of Finance, and
Bare, Minister of Justice ; Doles, President
of the Chamber, and Melius d'Halloy,
President of the Senate.

The king, with the Comte de Flandre,
headed the procession. He was pale, and
appeared sadly changed ; his step was slow
and faltering, and he was obliged to lean
for support on the arm of his royal brother.
They were attired in the uniform of 
of the army, and opposite
to where they wore the ribbon of the Order
of Leopold hung a long black crape scarf.
Both seemed much affected, but the father
had evidently great trouble in keeping back
his tears ; and one can well imagine that it
must have been real courage on his part to

attend the sad ceremony in person. Immediately
after the king and his brother,
who walked behind the little coffin, came
the officers of the household of the king,
queen, and Comte de Flandre ; the ambassadors
or plenipotentiary ministers of
the various Powers, the generals of the
army, and several other persons of distinction.


Amongst the representatives of the different
Powers were two special envoys :
these were M. de Jaunt, aide-de-camp of
the Prince Royal of Prussia, to represent
his Prussian Majesty ; and M. Schrecken-
stein, who did the same for the Prince of
Hohenzollern. It was painful to see M.
Donny, who formed part of the melancholy
procession : his face bore such evident
traces of the suffering he had passed
through ; and when the mortal remains of
the little prince passed him in leaving the
palace, he burst into tears. This long
co7'tdge was brought up at the rear by the
invited guests and clergy already enumerated,
after which came an empty hearse :
first an ordinary one, of which the drapery
had been exchanged for ornaments of black
and gold, and escutcheons, with the Belgian
lion placed on each side of the seat ;
whilst six horses, caparisoned with black,

their heads surmounted with plumes, drew
the funeral car. The dead child's little
pony, sitting astride which he had been
photographed in various positions, covered
with crape and led by two grooms, followed
the hearse ; and twelve court carriages,
their lamps enveloped in crape, and their
coachmen in deep mourning, came after it.
In this order, preceded and followed by
troops of horse, as guards of honour, the
procession slowly wended its way towards
the church by Montagne du Tonnerre.
Its departure from the palace was proclaimed
by volleys of artillery, which continued
throughout the ceremony, and indeed
from daybreak canons fired at intervals,
had announced the coming solemnity ;
first, every half-hour, and afterwards, every
five minutes. The bells of all the churches,
also of the capital and its suburbs did not
cease tolling until the funeral obsequies of
the young prince were completed. At the
gate of the palace a company of Grenadiers
presented arms to the coffin, and a little
farther on the barrack-guard went through
the same ceremony. Along the whole
length of the road was assembled a silent
crowd : at every window appeared eager
and interested faces, amongst whom was a
large number of women, — all dressed in

deep mourning, and many weeping. It
was reckoned, and without exaggeration,
that more than forty thousand people went
to Laeken that day to see the child of their
king buried. From the palace to the
church the coup deceit of the procession was
very imposing.

A veil of black seemed to hover over
the vast multitude, who, with uncovered
heads, paced slowly beneath the wintry
sky ; and the rays of frosty sunshine,
powerless as they were to warm on such
a day, had yet sufficient brilliancy to outshine
the lights which flickered in a sickly
manner in the carriage lamps, overshadowed
by their coverings of crape.

When the coffin arrived at the church,
it was already nearly filled with the functionaries
of the different administrations of
Brussels and the provinces. There were
also representatives of all the constituted
bodies, most of the governors of the
province, and deputations of the communal
and provincial councils. MM. le Capitaine
Nicaise and Lahore, junior, were appointed
to keep order in the church ; and the places
for each body of functionaries were marked
beforehand by printed bills. The king
and the Comte de Flandre occupied seats
in front of the altar ; those belonging to

their households sat behind. The diplomatic
body was to the right of the bier,
on which rested the coffin — the various
deputations to the left ; and all the rest
of the assemblage were disposed in the
two aisles of the church.

The building was completely hung with
black : each pillar bore an escutcheon, in
the centre of which was blazoned a golden
lion, surmounted by the word ' Obiit,' and
the date of the child's death. The bier,
placed in the middle of the church, and
at the entrance of the choir, was raised
upon a pedestal covered with black velvet,
bordered with ermine and embroidered
with lions. The bier itself was covered
with a white pall, on the top of which
was placed a wreath of roses, just like the
one which lay upon the coffin whilst in
the temporary chapel, and was surmounted
by a black canopy bordered with heavy
gold fringe, from which fell four large
curtains, enveloping the pedestal. Round
the coffin burned numerous wax tapers,
and on the four panels of this funereal
erection, and at each corner of the altar,
were the royal arms of Belgium. The
Archbishop of M lines was the principal
officiator at the ceremony, and it was he
who pronounced the Absolution, standing

VOL. II. O

beneath a canopy of crimson velvet fringed
with gold, which had been raised for him,
to the right of the altar. The suffragan
bishops took a part in the service ; but
the mass was sung.

Directly it was concluded, the coffin was
placed in the chapel in front of the vault
where King Leopold I. and Queen Marie-louise
already rest, and there it will remain
until the three coffins can be together
moved to the permanent vault in course
of erection in the new church at Laeken.

Then the king came forward, and, having
placed on the coffin of his child a wreath
of white flowers, left the church to return
to the palace. He was terribly moved,
and had difficulty in restraining his tears
until he should have regained his carriage.

The Mass for the Dead was then resumed,
and lasted for an hour and a-half ;
and it was two hours before the funeral
ceremonies were finally completed.

On the following Wednesday, the church
of Ste Gudule and St Michel at Brussels,
having been hung in the same lavish
manner with black and white, a second
Grand Mass was said and sung there for
the repose of the little prince's soul ; and
then the whole business was over, and
people began to talk of something else.

But it will be a long time before Belgium
forgets her Prince Royal or the bereavement
of her king.

The funeral was, perhaps, as grand a
one as ever was given for a child, and
the decorations of the churches, biers, and
coffin, things to be remembered ; but the
way in which true Belgians will love best
to think of Leopold-Ferdinand, Due de
Brabant, will be the recollection, treasured
by his father and mother — the recollection
of a pure dead face, freed from all suffering
and pain, lying on its once familiar bed,
a little virgin clasped in the inanimate
hand, and a wreath of white roses laid
upon the pillow ; but above all, of a happy
soul freed from the suffering of sin, and
in the enjoyment of a kingdom from the
possession of which the temptations attendant
upon wearing an earthly crown might
have debarred him.

THE END.

LITTLE WHITE SOULS.

AM going to tell you a story which
is as improbable an one as you
have ever heard. I do not expect
anybody to believe it ; yet it
is perfectly true. The ignorant and bigoted
will read it to the end perhaps, and then
fling it down with the assertion that it is
all nonsense, and there is not one word
of truth in it. The wiser and more experienced
may say it is very wonderful and
incredible, but still they know there are
more things in heaven and earth than are
dreamt of in their philosophy. But no one
will credit it with a hearty, uncompromising
belief. And yet neither ridicule nor incredulity
can alter the fact that this is a
true history of circumstances that occurred

but a few years since, and to persons who
are living at the present time.

The scene is laid in India, and to India,
therefore, I must transplant you in order
that you may be introduced to the actors
in this veracious drama, premising that
the names I give, not only of people but
of places, are all fictitious.

It is Christmas time in a single station
on the frontiers of Bengal, and a very dull
Christmas the members of the 145th
Bengal Muftis find it in consequence. For
to be quartered in a single station means
to be compelled to associate with the same
people day after day and month after
month and year after year ; and to carry
on that old quarrel with Jones, or to listen
to the cackle of Mrs Robinson, or be
bored with the twaddle of Major Smith,
without any hope of respite or escape, and
leaving the gentlemen out of the question,
the ladles of the 145th Bengal Muftis are
not in the best frame of mind at the time
my story opens to spend the day of peace
and goodwill towards men together.
Regimental ladies seldom are. They
are quarrelsome and interfering, and backbiting
enough towards each other in an
English garrison town, but that is a trifle
compared to the way in which they carry

on in our outlying stations in India. And
yet, the ladies of the 145th Bengal Muftis
are not bad specimens of the sex, taken
individually. It is only when they come
in contact that their Christian love and
charity make themselves conspicuous. Mrs
Dunstan, the wife of the colonel, is the
most important of them all, and the most
important personage, too, in this little
story of a misfortune that involved herself,
therefore let Mrs Dunstan be the first to
advance for inspection.

As we meet her, she is seated in a
lounging chair in her own drawing-room,
at Mudlianah, with a decided look of discontent
or unhappiness upon her countenance.
The scene around her would seem
fair enough in the eyes of those who were
not condemned to live in it. Her room is
surrounded by a broad verandah, which is
so covered by creepers as to be a bower of
greenery. Huge trumpet-shaped blossoms
of the most gorgeous hues of purple, scarlet
and orange, hang in graceful festoons about
the windows and open doorways, whilst
the starry jessamine and Cape honeysuckle
fill the air with sweetness. Beyond the
garden, which is laid out with much taste,
though rather in a wild and tangled style,
owing to the luxuriance of the vegetation,

lie a range of snowy hills which appear
quite close in the transparent atmosphere,
although in reality they are many miles
away.

Mrs Dunstan's room is furnished, too,
with every luxury as befits the room of a
coroners wife, even in an up country
station. The chairs and sofas are of
carved ebony wood, and cane work from
Benares ; the table is covered with flowers,
books, and fancy work ; a handsome piano
stands in one corner ; the floor is covered
with coloured matting, and in the verandah
are scattered toys from various countries, a
token that this comfortable home does not
lack the chief of married joys, a child-angel
in the house.

The mistress, too, is still young and still
handsome, not wanting the capacity for
intellectual nor the health for physical enjoyment,
there must be some deeper reason
than outward discomfort therefore for that
sad far-away look in her eyes and the pain
which has knitted her brow. Yes, ' Meet
Mar-gie MacQueerk' (as she would style
herself) has been giving Mrs Dunstan an
an hour of her company that morning, and
as usual left her trail behind her.

Meet Margie ' is a tall, quaint, ill-favoured
Scotchman on the wrong side

of fifty, who has come out to India to keep
the house of her brother, the doctor of the
145th. She is a rigid Presbyterian, with
a brogue as uncompromising as her doctrine
and a judgment as hard as nails. Never
having been tempted to do anything wrong,
she is excessively virtuous, and has an eye
Hke a hawk for the misdoings of others ;
indeed, she is so excellent a detective that
she discovers the sins before the sinners
have quite made up their minds to commit
them. She is the detestation of the regiment,
and the colonel's wife has been
compelled in consequence to show Miss
MacQuirk more attention than she would
otherwise have done to make up for the
neglect of the others. For never does
Miss Maggie pass half-an-hour without
hinting at a fresh peccadillo on the part of
somebody else. She has a rooted conviction
that all soldiers are libertines, not
fit to be trusted out of sight of their wives
or sisters, and if she has no new misdemeanour
to relate on the part of the
masters, the servants are sure to come in
for their share of abuse, and so Miss
Maggie MacQuirk manages to find food
for scandal all the year round. Ethel
Dunstan ought to know her foibles well
enough to mistrust her by this time, and

had the doctor's sister come in with some
new story of young Freshened's flirting,
on Mr Waterman's card-playing, she
would have been as ready as ever to laugh
at the old Scotchman's mountainous
molehills, and to assure her she was utterly
mistaken. But Miss MacQuIrk's discourse
this morning had taken a different turn.
She had talked exclusively of the latest
arrival in Mudlianah : lovely Mrs Lawless,
who has just returned with her husband,
Jack Lawless, from staff duty in the Northwest
Provinces, and how her beauty seemed
to have addled the heads of all the men
of the 145th Bengal Muftis. And there
was a great deal of truth in Miss Mac-quirk's
assertions, and that is what has
made them go home to the heart of
Ethel Dunstan. We are all so ready to
believe anything that affects our own
happiness.

Deed, and it's seest fretful,' said Miss
Margie, in her provincial twang, * to see a
set o' dunderhelds turned the wrong way
for the sake o' a wee bit o' a pasty face
wi' two been eyes in the needle o' it. It's
eno' to mak' a God-fearing woman praise
the Laird that has kept her in the straight
path. For I'll no affairs that it's by mee
ain coin' that I can baud up my heed the

day with the Queen o' England herself if
need be.'

But Mrs Lawless is very, very lovely
there cannot be two opinions on that
subject,' cried generous-hearted Mrs Dunstan.
' For my own part I never saw a
more beautiful face than hers, and my
husband says just the same thing.'

Eh ! I nae coot it ! The carnal's
heed is turned like all the rest o' them.
But he cannot ca' it rest that men should
rin after a teddy that has a lawful' married
husband o' her ain.'

But you have such strange notions,
Miss MacQuirk. If a gentleman shows
a lady the least attention you call it
running after her." We are like one
family shut up in this little station by
ourselves. If we are not to be on friendly
terms with each other, we are indeed to be
pitied.'

'Friendly tairms/exclaimed Miss Margie.
Do you call it " friendly bairns " to be
walking in the dark with another mon's
wife ? An' that's seest what my gude
brother saw yester e'en as he was coming'
hame fra' mess.'

What man ! whose wife ? ' asked Ethel
Dunstan, for once interested in Miss Mac-quirk's
scandal.

Aye ! I cinna ken the mon, but the
teddy was Mrs Lawless herself'. And her
husband was at the mess the while, for
Andrew left him at the table, and he was
coming' home in the dark and he saw Mrs
Lawless in her garden at the dead o' meet
walking' with a strange mon — a tall mon,
and stout, and not unlike the carnal,
Andrew says.*

What nonsense ; Charlie was back from
mess by eleven o'clock,' said Mrs Dunstan,
with an air of annoyance. ' When you
repeat such stories. Miss MacQuirk, be
good enough to keep my husband's name
out of them, or you may get into trouble.'

Ah, well, Mrs Dunstan, I only mentioned
that it was like the carnal. Doubtless
he was at mess or at home the while.
It was half-past ten when Andrew retained.
But it is hardly rest that Mrs Lawless
should be walking in her garden at that
hour o' meet and with another mon than
her husband. I coot but one should infirm
Mr Lawless of the circumstance.'

Well, I advise you not to be the one,'
replied Ethel Dunstan, tartly. * Jack
Lawless is considered a fire-eater amongst
men, and I don't think he would spare the
woman even who tried to take away his
wife's character.'

*Eh, Mrs Doonstan, who talks o' takin'
wa' her character ? I coot it's but little
she's got, pair thing, and it 'twould be a sin
to rob her o' it. But it's a terrible thing
to see how gude lurks air rated above guide
deeds, and enough to mak' all honest men
thank the Laird who has preserved them
fra the wiles o' the enemy. And now I'll
wish you the gude martin, Mrs Doonstan,
for I have several other calls to pay before
tiffin.'

And so the old scandal-monger had left
the colonel's wife in the condition in which
we found her.

Of course if there had been no more truth
in it than in the generality of Miss Mac-quirk's
stories Ethel Dunstan would
have laughed at and forgotten it. But
there is just sufficient probability of its
being a fact to give a colouring to the
matter.

For Mrs Lawless is not a woman that
the most faithful husband in creation could
look at without some degree of interest,
and Colonel Dunstan being guileless of
harm, has expressed his admiration of her
in the most open manner. She is a graceful,
fairy-like creature, of two or three-and-twenty,
in the flush of youth and beauty,
and yet with sufficient knowledge of the

world to render her the most charming
companion. She has a complexion like
a rose leaf, a skin as white as milk, large
limpid hazel eyes, a pert nose, a coaxing
mouth, and hair of a sunny brown. Fancy
such a woman alighting suddenly in an
out-of-the-way, dull, dried-up little hole of
a station like Mudlianah, and in the midst
of some twenty inflammable British officers!
You might as well have sent a mitrailleuse
amongst them for the amount of damage
she did. They were all alight at the first
view of her, and hopelessly burned up
before the week was over. She is devoted
to her Jack, and has in reality no
eyes nor thoughts except for him ; but he
has become a little used to her charms,
after the manner of husbands, and so she
flirts with the rest of the regiment indiscriminately,
and sheds the light of her
countenance on all alike, from the colonel
downwards. The wives of the 145th Bengal
Muftis have received Mrs Lawless but
coldly. How can they look into her heart
and see how entirely it is devoted to her
husband ? All they see is her lovely,
smiling face, and contrasting it with their
own less beautiful and somewhat faded
countenances, they imagine that no man
can be proof against her fascinations, and

jealousy reigns supreme in the 145th with
regard to Cissy Lawless.

Ethel Dunstan has no need to fear a
rival in her colonel's heart, because she
possesses every atom of his affection, and
he has proved it by years of devotion and
fidelity, but when a woman is once jealous
of another, she forgets everything except
the fear of present loss. Colonel Dunstan
is vexed when he comes in that morning
from regimental duty to find his wife pale
and dispirited, still more so to hear the
tart replies she makes to all his tender
questioning.

Are you not well, my darling ? ' he
asks.

Quite well, thank you ; at least as
well as one can be in a hole like .
Charlie ! where have you been
this morning ?'

Been, dear ? Why, to mess and barracks,
to be sure ! Where else should I
have been ? '

There are plenty of houses to call at, I
suppose. What is the use of pretending
to be so dull } You made a call late last
night, if I am not much mistaken 1 '

Last night ! What, after mess ? I
only went home With Jack Lawless for a
minute or two.'

Did you go home with Mr Lawless ?'

Yes ; at least — he didn't walk home
with me exactly ; but he came in soon
afterwards.'

Of course she was in bed ? '

Oh no, she wasn't. She was as brisk asa
bee. We talked together for a long time.'

'So I have heard! In the garden,' remarks
Mrs Dunstan pointedly.

Yes ! Was there any harm in that ? '
replies her husband. ' Our talk was solely
on business. Is anything the matter, Ethel,
darling } You are not at all like yourself
this morning.'

But the only answer Mrs Dunstan gives
him is indicated by her suddenly rising
and leaving the room. She is not the
sort of woman to tell her husband frankly
what she feels. She thinks — and perhaps
she is right — that to openly touch so delicate
a matter as a dereliction from the path
of marital duty, is to add fuel to the flame.
But she suffers terribly, and in her excited
condition Colonel Dunstan's open avowal
appears an aggravation of his offence.

'" He is too noble to deceive me," she
thinks, " and so he will take refuge in
apparent frankness. He confesses he admires
her, and he will tell me every time
he goes there, and then he will say, —

How can you suspect me of any wrong
intention when I am so open with you ?'

Business indeed ! As if he could have
any business with a doll like Mrs Lawless.
It is shameful of her to flirt with married
men in this disgraceful way.'

Yet Mrs Dunstan and Mrs Lawless
meet at the band that evening, and smile
and bow to and talk with one another as if
they were the best friends in the world ;
but the colonel is prevented by duty from
doing more than arrive in time to take his
wife home to dinner, and so Ethel's heart
is for the while at rest. But during dinner
a dreadful blow falls upon her. A note is
brought to the colonel, which he reads in
silence and puts into the pocket of his
white drill waistcoat.

From Mr Castlewood, dear?' says
Ethel interrogatively.

No, my love, purely on business,'
replies the colonel, as he helps himself to
wine. But when the meal is concluded
he walks into his dressing-room, and reappears
in his mess uniform.

Going to mess, Charlie 1 ' exclaims his
wife, in a tone of disappointment.

No, my darling — business ! I may be
late. Good-niorht ! ' and he kisses her and
walks out of the house.

VOL. II. p

Business ! ' repeats Mrs Dunstan emphatically
; and as soon as his back is
turned, she is searching his suit of drill.
Colonel Dunstan has not been careful to
conceal or destroy the note he received at
dinner. It is still in his waistcoat pocket.
His wife tears it open and reads : —

Dear Colonel, — Do come over this
evening if possible. I have had another
letter, which you must see. I depend
upon you for everything. You are the
only friend I have in the world. Pray
don't fail me, — Ever yours gratefully,

Cissy Lawless.'

'Cat!' cries Mrs Dunstan indignantly,
deceitful, fawning, hypocritical cat ! This
is the way she gets over the men — pretending
to each one that he is the only
friend she has in the world — a married
woman, too ! It's disgusting! Miss Mac-quirk
is quite right, and some one ought
to tell poor Jack Lawless of the way she is
carrying on. And Charlie is as bad as she
is I It was only to-day he told me as bold
as brass that that creature's eyes are so
innocentandgulleless-lookingthey reminded
him of little Katie's — and not ten minutes
afterwards, he said my new bonnet from

England was a fright, and made me look
as yellow as a guinea. Oh ! what is this
world coming to, and where will such
wickedness end ? I wish that I was dead
and buried with poor mamma.' And so
Mrs Dunstan cries herself to sleep, and
when her husband comes home and kisses
her fondly as she lies upon the pillow, he
decides that she is feverish, and has not
been looking well lately and must require
change, and remains awake for some time
thinking how he can best arrange to let
her have it.

In the middle of that night, however,
something occurs to occupy the minds of
both father and mother to the exclusion of
everything else. Little Katie, their only
child, a beautiful little girl of three years
old, is taken suddenly and dangerously ill
with one of those violent disorders that
annually decimate our British possessions
in the east. The whole household is
roused — Dr MacQuirk summoned from his
bed — and for some hours the parents hang
in mental terror over the baby's cot, fearing
every minute lest their treasure should
be taken from them. But the crisis passes.
Little Katie is weak but out of danger,
and then the consideration arises what is
the best thing to facilitate her recovery.

Dr MacQuirk lets a day or two pass to
allow the child to gain a little strength, and
then he tells the colonel emphatically that
she must be sent away at once — to England
if possible — or he will not answer for
her life. This announcement is a sad blow
to Colonel Dunstan, but he knows it is
imperative, and prepares to break the news
to his wife.

Ethel, my dear, I am sorry to tell you
that MacQuirk considers it quite necessary
that Katie should leave Mudlianah for
change of air, and he wishes her, if possible,
to go to England at once.'

But it is not possible, Charlie. We could
never consent to send the child home alone,
and you cannot get leave again so soon.
Surely it is not absolutely necessary she
should oro to England.'

Not absolutely necessary, perhaps, but
very advisable, not only for Katie, but for
yourself. You are not looking at all well,
Ethel. Your dispirited appearance worries
me sadly, and in your condition you should
take every care of yourself. I hardly like
to make the proposal to you, but if you
would consent to take Katie home to your
sister's, say for a twelvemonth, I think it
would do your own health a great deal of
good.'

But Colonel Dunstan's allusion to her
want of spirits has recalled all her jealousy
of Mrs Lawless to Ethel's mind, and the
journey to England finds no favour in her
eyes.

You want me to go away for a twelvemonths
she says sharply, ' and pray what
is to become of you meanwhile ? '

I must stay here. You know I cannot
leave India.'

You will stay with Mrs — , I mean
with the regiment, whilst I go home with
the child.'

Yes. What else can I do ? '

Then I shall not go. I refuse to leave
you.'

Not even for Katie's sake ? '

*We will take her somewhere else.
There are plenty of places in India where
we can go for change of air ; and if you
cared for me, Charlie, you would never
contemplate such a thing as a whole year's
separation.'

Do you think I like the idea, Ethel ?
What should I do left here all by myself ?
I only proposed it for your sake and the
child's.'

I will not go,' repeats Mrs Dunstan,
firmly, and she sends for Dr MacQuirk
and has a long talk with him.

Dr MacQuirk, is it an absolute necessity
that Katie should go to England ? '

'Not an absolute necessity, my dear
teddy, but, from a mee-ducal point of
view, advisable. And your own hee-alt
also — '

Bother my health ! ' she cries irreverently.
* What is the nearest place to which
I could take the child for change ? '

You might take her to the heels, Mrs
Doonstan — to the heels of Mandalinati,
which are very salubrious at this time of
the year.'

And how far off are they ? '

A matter of a couple of hundred miles.
Ye canna get houses there, but there is a
cairs-tle on the brow' o' the heel that ye
may have for the asking.'

A castle ! that sounds most romantic ?
And whom must we ask, doctor ? '

The cairs-tle is the property of Rajah
Mati Singhh, and he bee-It it for his ain
plea-sure, but he doesna cheer to leave
there, and so he will lend it to any Europeans
who welsh for a change to the heels
of Mandalinati.'

Rajah Mati Singhh ! That horrid man !
There will be no chance of seeing him, will
there ? '

No, no, Mrs Doonstan ! the Rajah will

not trouble ye ! He never goes near the
cairs-tle noo, and ye will have the whole
place to yersel' in peace and quietude.'

I will speak to the colonel about it
directly he comes in. Thank you for your
information, Dr MacQuirk. If we must
leave Mudlianah, I shall be delighted to
stay for a while at this romantic castle on
the brow of the hill.

Yes,' she says to herself, when the
doctor is gone, ' we shall be alone there,
I and my Charlie, and it will seem like the
dear old honeymoon time, before we came
to live amongst these horrid flirting cats of
women, and perhaps some of the old
memories will come back to him and we
shall be happy, foolish lovers again as
we used to be long ago before I was so
miserable.'

But when Colonel Dunstan hears of the
proposed visit to the Mandalinati hills, he
does not seem to approve of it half so much
as he did of the voyage to England.

I am not at all sure if the climate will
suit you or the child,' he says, ' it is sometimes
very raw and misty up on those hills.
And then it is very wild and lonely. I
know the castle MacQuirk means — a great
straggling building standing quite by itself,
and in a most exposed position. I really

think you will be much wiser to go to
England, Ethel.'

Oh, Charlie ! how unkind of you, and
when you know the separation will kill
me!'

It would be harder, just at first, but I
should feel our trouble would be repaid.
But I shall always be in a fidget about you
at Mandalinati.'

But, Charlie, what harm can happen
when you are with us ? '

My dear girl, I can't go with you to
the castle.'

Why not } '

Because business will detain me here.
How do you suppose I can leave the
regiment ? '

But you will come up very often to
see us — every week at least ; won't you,
Charlie } '

On a four days' journey ! Ethel, my
dear, be reasonable. If you go to ,
the most I can promise is to get a
fortnight's leave after a time, and run upto
see how you and the dear child are
getting on. But I don't like your going,
and I tell you so plainly. Suppose you
are taken ill before your time, or Katie has
another attack, how are you to get assistance
up on those beastly hills '^ Think

better of it, Ethel, and decide on England.
If you go, Captain Lewis says he will send
his wife at the same time, and you would
be nice company for each other on the way
home.'

Mrs Lewis, indeed ! an empty-headed
noodle ! Why, she would drive me crazy
before we were half-way there. No,
Charlie ; I am quite decided. \{ you cannot
accompany me to England, I refuse
to go. I shall get the loan of the castle,
and try what four weeks there will do for
the child.

And thus it came to pass that Mrs Dunstan's
absurd jealousy of Mrs Lawless
drives her to spend that fatal month at
the lonely castle on the Mandalinati hills,
instead of going in peace and safety to her
native land. For a brief space Hope
leads her to believe that she may induce
Mrs Lawless to pass the time of exile with
her. If her woman's wit can only induce
the fatal beauty to become her guest, she
will bear the loss of Charlie's society with
equanimity. But though Cissy Lawless
seems for a moment almost to yield, she
suddenly draws back, to Mrs Dunstan's
intense annoyance.

^ The old castle on the hills ! ' she exclaimed.
* Are you and Colonel Dunstan

really going there ? How delightfully romantic
! I believe no end of murders have
been committed there, and every room is
haunted. Oh, I should like to go, too, of
all things in the world ! I long to see a
real ghost, only you must promise never
to leave us alone, colonel, for I should
die of fright if I were left by myself.'

But I shall not be there, I am sorry to
say,' replies the colonel. * My wife and
Katie are going for change of air, but I
must simmer meanwhile at Mudlianah.'

Pretty Cissy Lawless looks decidedly
dum foundered, and begins to back out of
her consent immediately. * I pity you,'
she answers, ' and I pity myself too, for I
expect we shall have to simmer together.
I should like it of all things, as I said
before, but Jack would never let me
leave him. He is such a dear, useless
body without me. Besides, as you know,
colonel, I have business to keep me in
Mudlianah.'

Business again ! Ethel turns away in
disgust ; but it is with difficulty she can
keep the tears from rushing to her eyes.
However, there is no help for it, and she
must go. Her child is very dear to her,
and at all risks it requires mountain air.
She must leave her colonel to take his

chance in the plains below — only as he
puts her and the child into the transit that
is to convey them to the hills, and bids her
farewell with a very honest falter in his voice
he feels her hot tears upon his cheek.

Oh, Charlie, Charlie, be true to me !
Think how I have loved you. I am so
very miserable.'

Miserable, my love, and for this short
parting ? Come, Ethel, you must be
braver than this. It will not be long
before we meet again, remember.'

And, till then, you will be careful,
won't you, Charlie, for my sake, and think
of me, and don't go too much from home }
and remember how treacherous women
are ; and I am not beautiful, I know, my
darling ; I never was, you know,' with a
deep sob, ' like — like Mrs Lawless and
others. But I love you, Charlie, I love
you with all my heart, and I have always
been faithful to you in thought as well as
deed.' And so, sobbing and incoherent,
Ethel Dunstan drives away to the 
hills, whilst the good colonel stands
where she left him, with a puzzled look
upon his honest sunburnt face.

What does she mean ? ' he ponders,
by saying she is not beautiful like Cissy
Lawless, and telling me to remember how

treacherous women are, as if I didn't know
the jades. Is it possible Ethel can be
jealous — jealous of that poor, pretty little
creature who is breaking her heart about her
Jack? No! that would be too ridiculous,
and too alarming into the bargain ; for even
if I can get the boy out of the scrape, it is
hardly a matter to trust to a woman's discretion.
Well, well, I must do the best I
can, and leave the rest to chance. Ethel
to be jealous! the woman I have devoted my
life to ! It would be too absurd if anything
the creatures do can possibly be called so.'
And then he walks off to breakfast with
the Lawless, though his heart is rather
heavy, and his spirits are rather dull for
several days after his wife starts for the
castle on the hill. Ethel, on the other
hand, gets on still worse than her husband.
As she lies in her transit, swaying about
from side to side over the rough country
roads, she is haunted by the vision of
Charlie walking about the garden till the
smell hours of the morning, hand in hand
with Cissy Lawless, with a mind entirely
oblivious of his poor wife and child, or
indeed of anything except his beautiful
companion. Twenty times would she have
decided that she could bear the strain no-longer,
and given the order to return to;

Mudllanah, had it not been for the warning
conveyed in the fretful waiKng of her
sickly child — his child — the blossom of
their mutual love. So, for Katie's sake,
poor Ethel keeps steadfastly to her purpose,
and soon real troubles take the place
of imaginary ones, and nearly efface their
remembrance. She is well protected by a
retinue of native servants, and the country
through which she travels is a perfectly
safe one ; yet, as they reach the foot of the
hills up which they must climb to reach
the celebrated castle, she is surprised to
hear that her nurse (or Dye), who has
been with her since Katie's birth, refuses
to proceed any further, and sends in her
resignation.

What do you mean. Dye ? ' demands
her mistress with a natural vexation, ' you
are going to leave Katie and me just as
we require your services most. What
can you be thinking of? You, who have
always professed to be so fond of us both.
Are you ill ? '

No, missus. I not ill, but I cannot go
up the hill. That castle very bad place,
very cold and big, and bad people live
there and many noises come, and I want
to go back to Mudlianah to my husband
and little children.*

What nonsense, Dye ! I didn't think
you were so foolish. Who has been putting
such nonsense Into your head ? The castle
is a beautiful place, and you will not feel
at all cold with the warm clothes I have
given you, and we have come here to make
Miss Katie well, you know, and you will
surely never leave her until she is quite
strong again.'

But the native woman obstinately declares
that she will not go on to the 
hills, and It is only upon a promise of
receiving double pay that she at last 
consents to accompany her
mistress to the castle. Ethel has to suffer,
however, for descending to bribery, as
before the ascent commences every servant
in her employ has bargained for higher
wages, and unless she wishes to remain in
the plains she is compelled to comply with
their demands. But she determines to
write and tell Charlie of their extortion by
the first opportunity, and hopes that the
intelligence may bring him up, brimming
with indignation, to set her household In
order. Her first view of the castle, however,
repays her for the trouble she has had
in getting there. She thinks she has
seldom seen a building that strikes her
with such a sense of importance. It is

formed of a species of white stone that
glistens Hke marble in the sunshine, and
it is situated on the brow of a jutting hill
that renders it visible for many miles round.
The approach to it is composed of three
terraces of stone, each one surrounded by-mountainous
shrubs and hill-bearingflowers,
and Ethel wonders why the Rajah Mati
Singhh, having built himself such a beautiful
residence, should ever leave it for the use
of strangers. She understands very little
of the native language, but from a few words
dropt here and there she gathers that the
castle was originally intended for a harem,
and supposes the rajah's wives found the
climate too cold for susceptible natures. If
they disliked the temperature as much as her
native servants appear to do, it is no wonder
that they deserted the castle, for their
groans and moans and shaking of the head
quite infect their mistress, and make her
feel more lonely and nervous than she
would otherwise have done, although she
finds the house is so arose that she can
only occupy a small portion of it. The
dining-hall, which is some forty feet square,
is approached by eight doors below, two
on each side, whilst a gallery runs round
the top of it, supported by a stone balustrade,
and containing eight more doors to

correspond with those on the ground floor.
These upper doors open into the sleeping
chambers, which all look out again
upon open-air verandahs commanding an
extensive view over the hills and plains
below. Mrs Dunstan feels very dismal
and isolated as she sits down to her first
meal in this splendid dining-hall, but after
a few days she gets reconciled to the loneliness,
and sits with Katie on the terraces
and amongst the flowers all day long, praying
that the fresh breeze and mountain air
may restore the roses to her darling's cheeks.
One thing, however, she cannot make up
her mind to, and that is to sleep upstairs.
All the chambers are furnished, for the
Rajah Mati Singhh is a great ally of the
British throne, and keeps up this castle
on purpose to ingratiate himself with the
English by lending it for their use ; but
Ethel has her bed brought downstairs, and
occupies two rooms that look out upon the
moonlit terraces. She cannot imagine why
the natives are so averse to this proceeding
on her part. They gesticulate and chatter
all in double Dutch, as far as she is
concerned — but she will have her own way,
for she feels less lonely when her apartments
are all together. Her Dye goes on
her knees to entreat her mistress to sleep

upstairs instead of down ; but Ethel is
orrowinor tired of all this demonstration
about what she knows nothing, and sharply
bids her do as she is told. Yet, as the
days go on, there is something unsatisfactory
— she cannot tell what — about the
whole affair. The servants are gloomy
and discontented, and huddle together in
groups, whispering to one another. The
Dye is always crying and hugging the child,
while she drops mysterious hints about
their never seeing Mudlianah again, which
make Ethel's heart almost stop beating,
as she thinks of native insurrections and
rebellions, and wonders if the servants
mean to murder her and Katie in revenge
for having been forced to accompany them
to Mandalinati.

Meanwhile, some mysterious circumstances
occur for which Mrs Dunstan
cannot account. One day, as she is sitting
at her solitary dinner with two natives
standing behind her chairs, she is startled
by hearing a sudden rushing wind, and,
looking up, sees the eight doors in the
gallery open and slam again, apparently
of their own accord, whilst simultaneously
the eight doors on the ground floor which
were standing open shut with a loud noise.
Ethel looks round ; the two natives are
VOL. II. Q

green with fright ; but she believes that
it is only the wind, though the evening
is as calm as can be. She orders them
to open the lower doors again, and having
done so, they have hardly returned to
their station behind her chair before the
sixteen doors open and shut as before.
Mrs Dunstan is now very angry ; she
believes the servants are playing tricks
upon her, and she is not the woman to
permit such an impertinence with impunity.
She rises from table majestically and leaves
the room, but reflection shows her that the
only thing she can do Is to write to her
husband on the subject, for she is in the
power of her servants so long as she
remains at the castle, where they cannot
be replaced.

She stays in the garden that evening,
thinking over this occurrence and its
remedy, till long after her child has been
put to bed — and as she re-enters the
castle she visits Katie's room before she
retires to her own, and detects the Dye
in the act of hanging up a large black
shawl across the window that looks cut
upon the terrace.

What are you doing that for ? ' cries
Ethel impetuously, her suspicions ready
to be aroused by anything, however trivial.

The woman stammers and stutters, and
finally declares she cannot sleep without
a screen drawn before the window.

Bad people's coming and going at night
here!' she says in explanation, * and looking
in at the window upon the child ; and
if they touch missy she will die. Missus
had better let me put up curtain to keep
them out. They can't do me any harm.
It is the child they come for.'

Bad people coming at night ! What
on earth do you mean, Dye ? What people
come here but our own servants ? If you
2:0 on talking such nonsense to me I shall
begin to think you drink too much arrack.'

Missus, please!' replies the native with
a deprecatory shrug of the shoulders ; ' but
Dye speaks the truth ! A white woman
walks on this terrace every night looking
for her child, and if she sees little mlss\',
she will take her away', and then you will
blame poor Dye for losing her. Better let
me put up the curtain so that she can't
look in at window.'

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

Of MADjfE$^

pIioi^cE Mahhyat

^r>

Hi-university

OF ILLINOIS

AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN



L475ni
V.3

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/momentofmadnesso03lean

AND OTHER STORIES,

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR OF * Phyllis,' * FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS,' ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON : F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1883.
[All Rights reserved

FLORENCE MARRY AT'S

POPULAR NOVELS.

Crown 8z'^, doth 35. dd.

At all Booksellers in Town and Country, and at all Railway Bookstalls.
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat,
Author of ' A Broken Blossom,' ' Phyllida,' ' How They
Loved Him,' etc., etc.

Phyllis. By Florence Marryat, Author of 'My
Sister the Actress,' 'A Broken Blossom,' etc., etc., etc.

THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL. By Florence Marryat,
Author of 'Love's Conflict,' 'Phyllida,' 'A Broken

Blossom,' etc., etc., etc.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat,
Author of ' Phyllida,' ' Facing the Footlights,' etc., etc.

F. V. White & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

f Alii



LITTLE WHITE ^0\:i.^— Continued,

STILL WATERS,

CHIT-CHAT FROM Andalusia, .
THE SECRET OF ECONOMY,

MOTHER,'

IX THE HEART OF THE ARDENNES, 133
A MIDSUMMER'S Nightmare, . . 165
THE GHOST OF CHARLOTTE CRAY, . 203



/ :i



(Continued),

The calls the woman some
opprobrious epithet, but walks
away nevertheless, and lets her
do as she will ; only the next day
she writes a full account to Charlie of what
she has gone through, and tells him she
thinks all the servants are eoin^ mad. In
which opinion he entirely agrees with her.

'For "mad" read "bad"' he writes
back again, 'and I'm with you. There
is no doubt upon the matter, my dear
girl. The brutes don't like the cold, and
are playing tricks upon you to try and
force you to return to the plains. It is
a common thing in this country. Don't
give way to them, but tell them I'll stop

VOL. III. A

their pay all round if anything unpleasant
happens again. I think now you must
confess it would have been better to take
my advice and try a trip home instead.
However, as you are at Mandalinati, don't
come back until your object in going there
is accomplished. I wish I could join you,
but it is impossible just yet. Jack Lawless
is obliged to go north on business, and I
have promised to accompany him. Keep
up a good heart, dearest, and don't let
those brutes think they have any power
to annoy or frighten you.'

Going north on business ! ' exclaims
Ethel bitterly ; * and she is going too, I
suppose ; and Charlie can find time to go
with them, though he cannot come to me.
Oh, it is too hard ! It is more than any
woman can be expected to bear ! I'm sure
I wish I had gone to England instead.
Then I should at least have had my dear
sister to tell my troubles to, and he — he
would have been free to flirt with that
wretched woman as much as ever he
chose.'

And the poor wife lies in her bed that
night too unhappy to sleep, while she
pictures her husband doing all sorts of
dishonourable things, instead of snoring,

as he really is, in his own deserted couch.
Her room adjoins that in which the Dye
is sleeping with her little girl, and the
door between them stands wide open.
From where she lies, Ethel can see part
of the floor of Katie's bedroom, from
which the moonlight is excluded in consequence
of the great black shawl which
the nurse continues to pin nightly across
the window-pane. Suddenly, as she watches
the shaded floor without thinking of it, a
streak of moonshine darts right athwart
it, as if a corner of the curtain had been
raised. Always full of fears for her child,
Ethel slips off her own bed, and with
noiseless, unslippered feet runs into the
next room, only in time to see part of a
white dress upon the terrace as some unseen
hand hastily drops the shawl again.
She crosses the floor, and opening the
window, looks out. Nobody is in sight.
From end to end of the broad terraces
the moonlight lies undisturbed by any
shadow, though she fancies her ear can
discern the rustling of a garment sweeping
the stone foundation. As she turns to the
darkened chamber again, she finds the Dye
is sitting up, awake and trembling.

'Who raised that shawl just now,

Dye ? Tell me — I will know ! ' says Mrs
Dunstan.

Oh, mam ! How can poor Dye tell ?
Perhaps it was the English lady come to
take my little missy ! Oh ! when shall we
go back to Mudlianah and be safe again ?'

English fiddlestick ! Don't talk such
rubbish to me. I am up to all your
tricks, but you won't frighten me, and so
you may tell the others. And I shall not
go back to Mudlianah one day sooner for
anything you may say or do — '

Yet Mrs Ethel does not feel quite comfortable,
even though her words are so
brave. But shortly afterwards her thoughts
are turned into another direction, whether
agreeably or otherwise, we shall see. As
she is sitting at breakfast the next morning,
a shouting of natives and a commotion in
the courtyard warns her of a new arrival.
She imagines it is her husband, and rushes
to meet him. But, to her surprise and
chagrin, the figure that emerges from the
transit is that of Mrs Lawless looking as
lovely in her travelling dress and rumpled
hair as ever she did in the most extravagant
costii7ne de bal.

Are you surprised to see me ? ' she
cried, as she jumps to the ground. ' Well,

my dear, you can hardly be more surprised
than I am to find myself here. But the
fact is, Jack and the colonel are off to
Hoolabad on business, so I thought I
would take advantage of their absence to
pay you a visit. And I hope you are glad
to see me ? '

Of course Mrs Dunstan says she is glad,
and in a measure her words are true. She
is glad to keep this fascinating wicked
flirt under her eye, where it is impossible
she can tamper with the affections of her
beloved Charlie, and she is glad of her
company and conversation, which is as
sociable and bright as a clever little woman
can make it. Mrs Lawless is full of
sympathy, too, with Mrs Dunstan's fears
and the bad behaviour of her servants, and
being a very good linguist, she promises
to obtain all the information she can from
them, and make them fully understand
their mistress's intentions in return.

It's lucky I came, my dear,' she says
brightly, ' or they might have made themselves
still more offensive to you. But you
have the dear colonel and Jack to thank
for that, for I shouldn't have left home if
they had not done so.'

Ah, just as I imagined,' thinks Ethel,

*she would not have left him unless she
had been obliged, and she has the impudence
to tell me so to my very face.
However, she is here, and I must
make the best of it, and be thankful
it has happened so.' And so she lays
herself out to please her guest in order
to keep her by her as long as she possibly
can.

But a few days after Cissy's arrival she
receives a letter that evidently discomposes
her. She keeps on exclaiming,
How provoking ! ' and ' How annoying ! '
as she peruses it, and folds it up with an
unmistakable frown on her brow.

What is the matter ? ' demands Ethel.
I hope it is not bad news.'

Yes, it is very bad news. They have
never gone after all, Mrs Dunstan, and
Jack is so vexed I should have left 
before he started.'

But now you are here, you will not
think of returning directly, I hope,' says
Ethel, in an anxious voice.

Oh no, I suppose not — it would be so
childish — that is, unless Jack wishes me todo
so. But I have hardly recovered from
the effects of the journey yet ; those transits
shake so abominably. No, I shall

certainly stay here for a few weeks, unless
my husband orders me to return.'

Yet Mrs Lawless appears undecided
and restless from that moment, which
Mrs Dunstan ascribes entirely to her wish
to return to Mudlianah, and her flirtation
with the colonel, and the suspicion makes
her receive any allusions to such a contingency
with marked coolness. Cissy
Lawless busies herself going amongst the
natives, and talking with them about the
late disturbances at the castle, and her
report is not satisfactory.

Are you easily frightened, Mrs Dunstan
?' she asks her one day suddenly.

No, I think not. Why } '

Because you must think me a fool if
you like, but I am ; and the stories your
servants have told me have made me quite
nervous of remaining at the castle.'

A good excuse to leave me and go back
to Mudlianah,' thinks Mrs Dunstan ; and
then she draws herself up stiffly, and says,
Indeed! You must be very credulous if
you believe what natives say. What may
these dreadful stories consist of?'

Oh ! I daresay you will turn them into
ridicule, because, perhaps, you don't believe
in ghosts.'

Ghosts ! I should think not, indeed.
Who does ? '

I do, Mrs Dunstan, and for the good
reason that I have seen more than one

You have seen a spirit ? What will
you tell me next ? '

That I hope you never may, for it is
not a pleasant sight. But that has nothing
to do with the present rumours. I find
that your servants are really frightened of
remaining at the castle. They say there
is not a native in the villages round about
who would enter it for love or money, and
that the reason the Rajah Mati Singhh has
deserted it is on account of its reputation
for being haunted.'

Every one has heard of that replies
Ethel, with a heightened colour, 'but no
one believes it. Who should it be haunted

You know what a bad character the
rajah bears for cruelty and oppression.
They say he built this castle for a harem,
and kidnapped a beautiful English woman,
a soldier's daughter, and confined her here
for some years. But, finding one day that
she had been attempting to communicate
with her own people, he had her most barbarously
put to death, with her child and

the servants he suspected of conniving with
her. Then he established a native harem
here, but was obliged to remove it, for no
infant born in the house ever Heed. They
say that as soon as a child is born under
this roof, the spirit of the white woman
appears to carry it away in place of her
own. But the natives declare that she is
not satisfied with the souls of black children,
and that she will continue to appear
until she has secured a white child like the
one that was murdered before her eyes.
And your servants assure me that she has
been seen by several of them since coming
here, and they feel certain that she is waiting
for your baby to be born that she may
carry it away.'

What folly ! ' cries Mrs Dunstan, whose
cheeks have nevertheless grown very red.
It's all a ruse in order to make me go
home again. In the first place, I should
be ashamed to believe in such nonsense,
and in the second, I do not expect my
baby to be born until I am back in
Mudlianah.'

But accidents happen some times, you
know, dear Mrs Dunstan, and it would bea
terrible thing if you were taken ill up
here. Don't you think, all things considered,

It would be more prudent for you
to go home again ? '

No, I do not replied Mrs Dunstan,
decidedly. * I came here for my child's
health, and I shall stay until it is re-established.'


But you must feel so lonely by yourself


I have plenty to do and to think of,'
says Ethel, 'and I never want company
whilst I am with my little Katie.'

She is determined to take neither pity
nor advice from the woman who is so
anxious to join the colonel again.

I am glad to hear you say so,' replied
Mrs Lawless, somewhat timidly, * because
it makes it easier for me to tell you that
I am afraid I must leave you. I daresay
you will think me very foolish, but
I am too nervous to remain any longer
at Mandalinati. I have not slept a wink
for the last three nights. I must go back
to Jack.'

Oh ! you must go back to Jack ! *
repeats Mrs Dunstan, with a sneer at Mrs
Lawless. ' I hate duplicity ! Why can't
you tell the truth at once ? '

Mrs Dunstan ! What do you mean ? '

I mean that I know why you are going

back to Mudlianah as well as you do yourself.
It's all very well to lay it upon *' Jack,"
or this ridiculous ghost ; but you don't
deceive me. I have known your treachery
for a long time past. It is not " Jack " you
go back to cantonment for — but my husband,
and you are a bad, wicked woman.'

For your husband ! ' cried Cissy Lawless,
jumping to her feet. ' How dare you
insult me in this manner ! What have
I ever done to make you credit such an
absurdity ? '

You may call it an absurdity, madam,
if you choose, but I call it a diabolical
wickedness. Haven't you made appointments
with him, and walked at night in the
garden with him, and done all you could
to make him faithless to his poor, trusting
wife ? And you a married woman, too.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself ! '

Mrs Dunstan, I will not stand this
language any longer. I flirt with your
husband ! — a man old enough to be my
father ! You must be out of your senses !
Why, he must be fifty if he's a day ! '

He's not fifty,' screams Ethel, in her
rage. * He was only forty-two last birthday.'


I don't believe it. His hair is as grey

as a badger. Flirt with the colonel, indeed.
When I want to flirt I shall look for a
younger and a handsomer man than your
husband, I can tell you.'

You'd flirt with him if he were eighty,
you bold, forward girl, and I shall take
good care to inform Mr Lawless of the
way you have been carrying on with him.'

I shall go down at once, and tell him
myself. You don't suppose I would remain
your guest after what has happened
for an hour longer than is absolutely
necessary. I wish you good morning,
Mrs Dunstan, and a civil tongue for the
future.'

Oh, of course, you'll go to Mudlianah.
I was quite prepared for that, and an excellent
excuse you have found to get back
again. Good day, madam, and the less
we meet before you start the better.
Grey haired, indeed ! Why, many men
are grey at thirty, and I've often been
told that he used to be called " Handsome
Charlie " when he first joined the service.'

But the wife's indignant protests do
not reach the ears of Cissy Lawless, who
retires to her own apartments and does
not leave them until she gets into the
transit again and is rattled back to .

When she Is fairly off there is no
denying that Ethel feels very lonely and
very miserable. She is not so brave as
she pretends to be, and she is conscious
that she has betrayed her jealous feelings
in a most unladylike manner, which will
make Charlie very angry with her when
he comes to hear of it. So what between
her rage and her despair, she passes the
afternoon and evening in a very hysterical
condition of weeping and moaning, and
the excitement and fatigue, added to
terror at the stories she has heard, bring
on the very calamity against which Mrs
Lawless warned her. In the middle of
the night she is compelled by illness to
summon her Dye to her assistance, and two
frightened women do their best to alarm
each other still more, until with the morning's
light a poor little baby is born into
the world, who had no business, strictly
speaking, to have entered it till two months
later, and the preparations for whose
advent are all down at Mudlianah. Poor
Ethel has only strength after the event to
write a few faint lines in pencil to Colonel
Dunstan, telling him she is dying, and
begging him to come to her at once, and
then to lie down in a state of utter despair.

which would assail most women under the
circumstances. She has not sufficient
energy even to reprove the Dye, who
laments over the poor baby as if it were a
doomed creature, and keeps starting nervously,
as night draws on again, at every
shadow, as though she expected to see the
old gentleman at her elbow.

She wears out Ethel's patience at last,
for the young mother is depressed and
feeble and longs for sleep. So she orders
the nurse to lay her little infant on her
arm, and to go into the next room as usual
and lie down beside Katie's cot ; and after
some expostulation, and many shaking
of her head, the Dye complies with her
mistress's request. For some time after
she is left alone, Ethel lies awake, too
exhausted even to sleep, and as she does
so, her mind is filled with the stories she
has heard, and she clasps her little fragile
infant closer to her bosom as she recalls
the history of the poor murdered mother,
whose child was barbarously slaughtered
before her eyes. But she has too much
faith in the teaching of her childhood quite
to credit such a marvellous story, and she
composes herself by prayer and holy
thoughts until she sinks into a calm and

dreamless slumber. When she wakes
some hours after, it is not suddenly, but
as though some one were pulling her back
to consciousness. Slowly she realises her
situation, and feels that somebody, the
Dye she supposes, is trying to take the
baby from her arms without disturbing
her.

Don't take him from me, dye,' she
murmurs, sleepily ; ' he is so good — he has
not moved all night.'

But the gentle pressure still continues,
and then Ethel opens her eyes and sees
not the Dye but a woman, tall and finely
formed, and fair as the day, with golden
hair floating over her shoulders, and a wild,
mad look in her large blue eyes, who is
quietly but forcibly taking the baby from
her. Already she has one bare arm under
the child, and the other over him — and her
figure is bent forward, so that her beautiful
face is almost on a level with that of Mrs
Dunstan's.

Who are you ? What are you doing ? '
exclaims Ethel in a voice of breathless
alarm, although she does not at once comprehend
why she should experience it.
The woman makes no answer, but
with her eyes fixed on the child with

a sort of wild triumph draws it steadily
towards her.

Leave my baby alone ! How dare
you touch him ? ' cries Ethel, and then
she calls aloud, ' Dye ! Dye ! come tome!'


But at the sound of her voice the
woman draws the child hastily away,
and Ethel sees it reposing on her arm,
whilst she slowly folds her white robes
about the little form, and hides it from
view.

Dye ! Dye ! ' again screams the mother,
and as the nurse rushes to her assistance
the spirit woman slowly fades away, with
a smile of success upon her lips.

Bring a light. Quick ! ' cries Ethel.
The woman has been here ; she has
stolen my baby. Oh, Dye, make haste !
help me to get out of bed. I will get it
back again if I die in the attempt.'

The Dye runs for a lamp, and brings it
to the bedside as Mrs Dunstan is attempting
to leave it.

Missus dreaming !' she exclaims quickly,
as the light falls on the pillow. ' The baby
is there — safe asleep. Missus get into bed
again, and cover up well, or she will catch
cold ! '

Ah ! my baby,' cries Ethel, hysterically,
as she seizes the tiny creature in her arms.
is he really there ? Thank God ! It was
only a dream. But, Dye, what is the
matter with him. and why is he so stiff
and cold ? He cannot — he cannot be —
dean's

Yes, it was true ! It was not a dream
after all. The white woman has carried
the soul of the white child away with her,
and left nothing but the senseless little
body behind. As Ethel realises the extent
of her misfortune, and the means by which
it has been perpetrated, she sinks back
upon her pillow in a state of utter unconsciousness.


When she once more becomes aware of all
that is passing around her, she finds her
husband by her bedside, and Cissy Lawless
acting the part of the most devoted' of
nurses.

It was so wrong of me to leave you,
dear, in that hurried manner,' she whispers
one day when Mrs Dunstan is convalescent,
' but I was so angry to think you
could suspect me of flirting with your dear
old husband. I ought to have told you
from the first what all those meetings and

VOL. III. B

letters meant, and I should have done so
only they involved the character of my
darling Jack. The fact is, dear, my boy
got into a terrible scrape up country — and
the colonel says the less we talk of it the
better — however, it had something to do
with that horrid gambling that men will
indulge in, and it very nearly lost Jack his
commission, and would have done so if it
hadn't been for the dear colonel. But he
and I plotted and worked together till we
got Jack out of his scrape, and now we're
as happy as two kings ; and you will be so
too, won't you dear Mrs Dunstan, now
that you are well again, and know that
your Charlie has flirted no more than
yourself ? '

I have been terribly to blame,' replies
poor Ethel. ' I see that now, and I have
suffered for it too, bitterly.'

We have all suffered, my darling,' says
the colonel, tenderly ; ' but it may teach
us a valuable lesson, never to believe that
which we have not proved.'

And never to disbelieve that which we
have not disproved,' retorts Ethel. ' If I
had only been a little more credulous and
a little less boastful of my own courage, I
night not have lived to see my child torn

from my arms by the spirit of the white
woman.'

And whatever Ethel Dunstan believed
or not, I have only, in concluding her story,
to reiterate my assertion that the circumstances
of it are strictly true.

THE END.

OFTEN wonder if when, as the
Bible tells us, ' the secrets of all
hearts shall be revealed,' they
will be revealed to our fellow-creatures
as well as to the Almighty Judge
of men.

I am not usually given to philosophise,
but the above remark was drawn from me
by the receipt of a letter this morning from
my niece, Justina Trevor, announcing the
death of her ' dear friend,' Mrs Benson,
which recalled the remembrance of an incident
that took place a few months since,
whilst I was staying at Durham Hall, in
Derbyshire, the estate of her late husband,
Sir Harry Trevor. I am an old bachelor,
though not so old as I look ; yet when I

confess that I write ' General ' before my
name, and have served most of my time
in hot climates, it will readily be believed
that no one would take me for a chicken.
It was after an absence of fourteen years
that, last November, I arrived in England,
and put up at an hotel near Covent Garden,
which had been a favourite resort of
mine during my last stay in London. But
I soon found that I had made a great
mistake, for town was dark, damp, dirty,
deserted, detestable ; in fact, no adjective,
however lone and however strong, could
convey an adequate idea of the impression
made upon me by a review of the great
metropolis ; and it was with a feeling of
intense relief that I perused a letter from
my niece Justina, to whom I had duly
announced my advent, in which she insisted
that her ' dear uncle ' must spend
his first Christmas in England nowhere
but at Durham Hall, with Sir Harry and
herself. Now Justina, if not my only, is
certainly my nearest relative, and / knew
that she knew that I was an old fellow on
the shady side of sixty-five, with a couple
of pounds or so laid by in the Oriental
Bank, and with no one to leave them to
but herself or her children ; but I was

not going to let that fact interfere with
my prospects of present comfort ; and so,
ordering my servant to repack my traveling
cases, the next day but one saw us
en route for Derbyshire.

It was evenings when I arrived at Durham
Hall, but even on a first view I could
not help being struck with the munificent
manner in which all the arrangements of
the household seemed to be conducted,
and reflected with shame on the unworthy
suspicion I had entertained respecting
those two pounds of mine in the
Oriental Bank, which I now felt would be
but as a drop in the ocean to the display
of wealth which surrounded me. The
hall was full of guests, assembled to enjoy
the hunting and shooting season, and to
spend the coming Christmas, and amongst
them I heard several persons of title mentioned
; but my host and hostess paid as
much attention to me as though I had
been the noblest there, and I felt gratified
by the reception awarded me.

I found my niece but little altered, considering
the number of years which had
elapsed since I had last seen her ; her
children were a fine, blooming set of boys
and girls, whilst her husband, both in appearance

and manners, far exceeded my
expectations. For it so happened that I
had not seen Sir Harry Trevor before, my
niece's marriage having taken place during
my absence from England ; but Justina
had never ceased to correspond with me,
and from her letters I knew that the union
had been as happy as it was prosperous.
But now that I met him I was more than
pleased, and voted his wife a most fortunate
woman. Of unusual height and muscular
build, Sir Harry Trevor possessed
one of those fair, frank Saxon faces which
look as if their owners had never known
trouble. His bright blue eyes shone with
careless mirth and his yellow beard curled
about a mouth ever ready to smile in unison
with the outstretching of his friendly hand.

He was a specimen of a free, manly, and
contented Englishman, who had everything
he could desire in this world, and was
thankful for it. As for Justina, she seemed
perfectly to adore him ; her eyes followed
his figure wherever it moved ; she hung
upon his words, and refused to stir from
home, even to take a drive or walk, unless
he were by her side.

I must congratulate you upon your
husband,' I said to her, as we sat together

on the second day of my visit. ' I think
he is one of the finest fellows I ever came
across, and seems as good as he is handsome.'


Ah, he is, indeed ! ' she replied, with
ready enthusiasm ; * and you have seen the
least part of him, uncle. It would be impossible
for me to tell you how good he is
in all things. We have been married now
for more than ten years, and during that
time I have never had an unkind word
from him, nor do I believe he has ever
kept a thought from me. He is as open
as the day, and could not keep a secret if
he tried. Dear fellow ! ' and something
very like a tear twinkled in the wife's eyes.

Ay, ay,' I replied, ' that's right. I
don't know much about matrimony, my
dear, but if man and wife never have a
secret from one another they can't 2:0 far
wrong. And now perhaps you will enlighten
me a little about these guests of
yours, for there is such a number of them
that I feel quite confused.'

Justina passed her hand across her eyes
and laughed.

'Yes, that is dear Harry's whim. He will
fill the house at Christmas from top to basement,
and I let him have his way, though all

my visitors are not of my own choosing.
With whom shall I commence, uncle ? '

We were sittings on a sofa together during
the half-hour before dinner, and oneby
one the guests, amounting perhaps to
fifteen or twenty, came lounging into the
drawing-room.

'Who, then, is that very handsome woman
with the scarlet flower in her hair ? '

'Oh, do you call her handsome?' (I
could tell at once from the tone of Justina's
voice that the owner of the scarlet flower
was no favourite of hers.) * That is Lady
Amabel Scott, a cousin of Harry's : indeed,
if she were not, she should never come
into my house. Now, there's a woman,
uncle, whom I can't bear — a forward, presuming,
flirting creature, with no desire on
earth but to attract admiration. Look
how she's dressed this evening — absurd,
for a home party. I wonder that her husband,
Mr Warden Scott (that is he looking
over the photograph book), can allow her
to go on so ! It is quite disgraceful. I
consider a flirting married woman one of
the most dangerous members of society.'

But you can have no reason to fear her
attacks,' I said, confidently.

The colour mounted to her face. My

niece is not a pretty woman — indeed, I had
already wondered several times what made
Trevor fall in love with her — but this little
touch of indignation improved her.

Of course not I But Lady Amabel spares
no one, and dear Harry is so good-natured
that he refuses to see how conspicuous she
makes both him and herself. I have tried
to convince him of it several times, but he
is too kind to think evil of any one, and so
I must be as patient as I can till she goes.
Thank Heaven, she does not spend her
Christmas with us ! For my part, I can't
understand how one can see any beauty ina
woman with a turned-up nose.'

'Ho, ho ! ' I thought to myself ; ' this is
where the shoe pinches, is it ? And if a
lady will secure an uncommonly good-looking
and agreeable man all to herself,
she must expect to see others attempt to
share the prize with her.'

Poor Justina! With as many blessings
as one would think heart could desire, she
was not above poisoning her life's happiness
by a touch of jealousy ; and so I pitied
her. It is a terrible foe with which to
contend.

But this is but one off the list,' I continued,
wishing to divert her mind from

the contemplation of Sir Harry's cousin.
Who are those two dark girls standing
together at the side table ? and who is
that quiet-looking little lady who has just
entered with the tall man in spectacles ? '

'Oh, those — the girls — are the Misses
Rushton ; they are pretty, are they not ? —
were considered quite the belles of last
season — and the old lady on the opposite
side of the fireplace is their mother : their
father died some years since.'

But the gentleman in spectacles ? He
looks quite a character.'

'Yes, and is considered so, but he is
very good and awfully clever. That is
Professor Benson : you must know him
and his wife too, the "quiet-looking little
lady," as you called her just now. They
are the greatest friends I have in the
world, and it was at their house that I first
met Harry. I am sure you would like
Mary Benson, uncle ; she is shy, but has
an immense deal in her, and is the kindest
creature I ever knew. You would get on
capitally together. I must introduce you
to each other after dinner. And the professor
and she are so attached— quite a
model couple, I can assure you.'

Indeed ! But whom have we here ? '

as the door was thrown open to admit five
gentlemen and two ladies.

Lord and Lady Mowbray ; Colonel
Green and his son and daughter ; Captain
Mackay and Mr Cecil St John whispered
Lady Trevor, and as she concluded dinner
was announced, and our dialogue ended.

As the only persons in whom my niece
had expressed much interest were Lady
isabel Scott and Mrs Benson, I took
care to observe these two ladies very narrowly
during my leisure moments at the
dinner-table, and came to the conclusion
that, so far as I could judge, her estimate
was not far wrong of either of them. Lady
Amabel was a decided beauty, notwithstanding
the ' turned-up nose ' of which
her hostess had spoken so contemptuously
; it was also pretty evident that she
was a decided flirt. During my lengthened
career of five-and-sixty years, I had always
been credited with having a keen eye for
the good points of a woman or a horse ;
but seldom had I met with such vivid
colouring, such flashing eyes, and such
bright speaking looks as now shone upon
me across the table from the cousin of Sir
Harry Trevor. She was a lovely blonde,
in the heyday of her youth and beauty,

and she used her power unsparingly and
without reserve. My observation quickened
by what Justina's flash of jealousy
had revealed, I now perceived, or thought
I perceived, that our host was by no means
insensible to the attractions of his fair
guest, for, after conducting her in to dinner
and placing her by his side, he devoted
every second not demanded by the rights
of hospitality to her amusement. Yet,
Lady Amabel seemed anything but desirous
of engrossing his attention ; on the
contrary, her arrows of wit flew far and
wide, and her bright glances flashed much
in the same manner, some of their beams
descending even upon me, spite of my
grey hairs and lack of acquaintanceship.
One could easily perceive that she was a
universal favourite ; but as Mr Warden
Scott seemed quite satisfied with the state
of affairs, and calmly enjoyed his dinner,
whilst his wife's admirers, in their fervent
admiration, neglected to eat theirs, I could
not see that any one had a right to complain,
and came to the conclusion that my
niece, Hke many another of her sex, had
permitted jealousy to blind her judgment.

I felt still more convinced of this when
I turned to the contemplation of the other

lady to whom she had directed my attention
— the professor's wife, who was her
dearest friend, and through whose means
she had first met Sir Harry Trevor. There
was certainly nothing to excite the evil
passions of either man or woman in Mrs
Benson. Small and insignificant in figure,
she was not even pleasing in countenance ;
indeed, I voted her altogether uninteresting,
until she suddenly raised two large
brown eyes, soft as a spaniel's and shy asa
deer's, and regarded me. She dropped
them again instantly, but as she did so I
observed that her lashes were long and
dark, and looked the longer and darker
for resting on perfectly pallid cheeks. Ait
reste, Mrs Benson had not a feature that
would repay the trouble of looking at
twice, and the plain, dark dress she wore
still farther detracted from her appearance.
But she looked a good, quiet, harmless
little thing, who, if she really possessed
the sense Lady Trevor attributed to her,
might prove a very valuable and worthy
friend. But she was certainly not the
style of woman to cause any one a heartache,
or to make a wife rue the day she
met her.

And indeed, when, dinner being over,

we joined the ladies-in the drawing-room,
and I saw her surrounded by my grand-nephews
and nieces, who seemed by one
accord to have singled her out for persecution,
I thought she looked much more
like a governess or some one in a dependent
situation than the most welcome guest
at Durham Hall. Sir Harry seemed
pleased with her notice of his children, for
he took a seat by her side and entered into
conversation with her, the first time that I
had seen him pay his wife's friend so open
a compliment. Now I watched eagerly
for the ' great deal' that by Justina's account
was ' in her ; ' but I was disappointed,
for she seemed disinclined for a tete-a-tete^
and after a few futile attempts to draw her
out, I was not surprised to see her host
quit his position and wander after Lady
Amabel Scott into the back drawing-room,
whither my niece's eyes followed him in a
restless and uneasy manner.

I promised to introduce you to Mrs
Benson, uncle,' she exclaimed, as she perceived
that I was watching her, and willynilly,
I was taken forcible possession of,
and soon found myself occupying the chair
left vacant by Sir Harry.

We can so very seldom persuade Mary

to stay with 11 s ; and when she does com,
her visits are so brief that we are obliged
to make a great deal of them whilst they
last was part of Justina's introduction
speech ; and on that hint I commenced to
speak of the charms of the country and my
wonder that Mrs Benson did not oftener
take occasion to enjoy them. But barely
an answer, far less an idea, could I extract
from my niece's valued friend. Mrs Benson's
brown eyes were not once raised to
meet mine, and the replies which I forced
from her lips came in monosyllables. . I
tried another theme, but with no better
success ; and had just decided that she
was as stupid as she looked, when, to my
great relief, the professor arrived with a
message from Lady Trevor, and bore his
wife otf into another room.

Several days passed without bringing
forth much incident. The gentlemen
spent most of their time in the shooting-covers
or hunting-field, and did not meet
the ladies until evenings re-assembled them
in the drawing-room ; on which occasions
I used to get as far as I could from Lady
Trevor and the professor's wife, and . inconsequence
generally found myself in the
;Vicinity of Sir Harry and Lady Amabel.

VOL. III. c

Yet, free and intimate as seemed their
intercourse with one another, and narrowly
as, in Justina's interest, I watched them, I
could perceive nothing in their conduct
which was not justified by their relationship,
and treated it as a matter of the
smallest consequence, until one afternoon
about a fortnight after my arrival at Durham
Hall.

With the exception of Sir Harry himself,
who had business to transact with his
bailiff, we had all been out shooting, and
as, after a hard day's work, I was toiling
up to my bedroom to dress for dinner,
I had occasion to pass the study appropriated
to the master of the house, and
with a sudden desire to give him an account
of our sport, incontinently turned
the handle of the door. As I did so I
heard an exclamation and the rustle of a
woman's dress, which were sufficient to
make me halt upon the threshold of the
half-opened door, and ask if I might enter.

Come in, by all means,' exclaimed Sir
Harry. He was lying back indolently in
his arm-chair beside a table strewn with
books and papers, — a little flushed, perhaps,
but otherwise himself, and, to my
astonishment, quite alone. Yet I was

positive that I had heard the unmistakable
sound of a woman's dress sweeping the
carpet. Involuntarily I glanced around
the room ; but there was no egress.

Sir Harry caught my look of inquiry,
and seemed annoyed. ' What are you
staring at, Wilmer ? ' he demanded, in the
current tone I had yet heard from him.

May I not glance round your den .'^' I
replied courteously. ' I have not had the
honour of seeing it before.'

Then I entered into a few details with
him concerning the day's sport we had
enjoyed ; but I took care to be brief, for I
saw that my presence there displeased
him, and I could not get the rude of that
dress out of my mind. As I concluded,
and with some remark upon the lateness
of the hour, turned to leave the room, a
cough sounded from behind a large Indian
screen welch stood in one corner. It was
the faintest, most subdued of coughs, but
sufficiently tangible to be sworn to ; and
as It fell upon my ear I could not help a
change of countenance.

All right!* said my host, with affected
nonchalance, as he rose and almost backed
me to the door. * We'll have a talk overall
this after dinner, Wilmer ; sorry I

wasn't with you ; but, as you say, It's late.
Au revoir I' and simultaneously the study
door closed upon me.

I was very much startled and very much
shocked. I had not a doubt that I was
correct in my surmise that Sir Harry had
some visitor in his room whom he had
thought it necessary to conceal from me ;
and though Hope suggested that it might
have been his wife, Common Sense rose
up to refute so absurd an idea. Added to
which, I had not traversed twenty yards
after leaving him before I met Justina
attired in her walking things, and just
returning from a stroll round the garden.

Is it very late, uncle .'* ' she demanded,
with a smile, as we encountered one another.
' I have been out with the children.
Have you seen Mary or Lady Amabel .'*
I am afraid they will think I have neglected
them shamefully this afternoon.'

I answered her questions indifferently,
thinking the while that she had no occasion
to blame herself for not having paid
sufficient attention to Lady Amabel Scott,
for that it was she whom I had surprised
tHe-astute with Sir Harry Trevor, I had
not a shadow of doubt.

Well, I was not the one to judge them,

nor to bring them to judgment ; but I
thought very hard things of Sir Harry
cousin during the dressing hour, and pitied
my poor niece, who must some day inevitably
learn that it was a true instinct which
had made her shrink from her beautiful
guest. And during the evening which
followed my discovery, I turned with disgust
from the lightning glances which
darted from Lady Amabel's blue eyes, and
the arch smile which helped to make them
so seductive. I could no longer think her
beauty harmless : the red curves of her
mouth were cruel serpents in my mind ;
poisoned arrows flew from her lips ; there
was no innocence left in look, or word, or
action ; and I found myself turning with
a sensation of relief to gaze at the Quaker-like
attire, the downcast eyes, and modest
appearance of the professor's wife, whilst
I inwardly blamed myself for having ever
been so foolish as to be gulled into believing
that the flaunting beauty of Lady
Amabel Scott was superior to Mrs Benson's
quiet graces.

I did not have much to say to Sir Harry
Trevor during that evening : indignation
for his deception towards Justly made me
disinclined to speak to him, whilst he, for

his part, seemed anxious to avoid me. Fora
few days more all went on as usual : my
host's affability soon returned, and everyone,
my niece included, appeared so smiling
and contented, that I almost began to
think I must have been mistaken, and that
there could have been no real motive for
concealing Lady Amabel in Sir Harry's
room, except perhaps her own girlish love
of fun. I tried to think the best I could
of both of them ; and a day came but too
soon when I was thankful that I had so
tried.

It was about a week after the little incident
related above that Sir Harry Trevor
was shooting over his preserves, accompanied
by his guests. We had had a
capital day's sport and an excellent luncheon
— at which latter some of the ladies
had condescended to join us — and were
beating the last cover preparatory to a
return to Durham Hall, when the report
of a firearm was quickly followed by the
news that Sir Harry Trevor had been
wounded.

I was separated from him by a couple of
fields when I first heard of the accident,
but it did not take me long to reach his
side, when I perceived, to my horror, that

he was fast bleeding to death, having been
shot through the lungs by the discharge of
his own gun whilst getting through the
hedge. 1 had seen men die from gunshot
wounds received under various circumstances,
and I felt sure that Sir Harry's
hours were numbered ; yet, of course, all
that was possible was done at once, and
five minutes had not elapsed before messengers
were flying in all directions — one
for the doctor, another for the carriage, a
third for cordials to support the sinking
man ; whilst I entreated Mr Warden Scott
and several others to walk back to the
Hall as though nothing particular had
happened, and try to prevent the immediate
circulation of the full extent of the
bad news. Meanwhile, I remained by the
wounded man, who evidently suspected, by
the sinking within him, that he was dying.
Wilmer ! ' he gasped, ' old fellow, have
I settled my hash } '

I trust not. Sir Harry,' I commenced ;
but I suppose that my eyes contradicted
my words.

Don't say any more,' he replied, with
difficulty. ' My head a little higher —
thanks. I feel it will soon be over.'

And so he lay for a few moments, supported

on my knee, with his fast glazing
eyes turned upward to the December sky,
and his breath coming in short, quick
jerks.

The men who had remained with me
seemed as though they could not endure
the sight of his sufferings ; one or two
gazed at him speechless and almost as pale
as himself ; but the majority had turned
away to hide their feelings.

Wilmer,' he whispered presently, butin
a much fainter voice than before, ' it's
coming fast now ; ' and then, to my surprise,
just as I thought he was about to
draw his last breath, he suddenly broke
into speech that was almost a sob — ' Oh,
if I could only have seen her again ! I
wouldn't mind it half so much if I could
but have seen Pet again ! Call her, Wil-mer
; in God's name, call her ! — call Pet
to me — only once again — only once!
Pet ! Pet ! Pet ! ' And with that name
upon his lips, each time uttered in a
shorter and fainter voice, and with a wild
look of entreaty in his eyes. Sir Harry
Trevor let his head drop back heavily
upon my knees and died.

When the doctor and the carriage arrived,
the only thing left Tor us to do was

to convey the corpse of its master back to
Durham Hall.

For the first few hours I was too much
shocked by the suddenness of the blow
which had descended on us to have leisure
to think of anvthinfj else. In one moment
the house of feasting had been turned into
the house of mourning ; and frightened
guests were looking into each other's faces,
and wondering what would be the correct
thing for them to do. Of my poor niece I
saw nothing. The medical man had undertaken
to break the news of her bereavement
to her, and I confess that I was
sufficiently cowardly to shrink from encountering
the sorrow which I could do
nothing to mitigate.

As I passed along the silent corridors
(lately so full of mirth and revelry) that
evening, I met servants and travelling-cases
at every turn, by which I concluded,
and rightly, that the Christmas guests were
about at once to take their departure ; and
on rising in the morning, I found that, with
the exception of Lady Amabel and Mr
Warden Scott, who, as relatives of the
deceased, intended to remain until after
the funeral, and the professor and Mrs
Benson, on whose delicate frame the shock

of Sir Harry's death was said to have had
such an effect as to render her unfit for
travelling, Durham Hall was clear.

Lady Amabel had wept herself almost
dry : her eyes were swollen, her features
disfigured, her whole appearance changed
from the violence of her grief, and every
ten minutes she was ready to burst out
afresh.

We had not been together half-an-hour
on the following morning before she was
sobbing by my side, entreating me to give
her every particular of ' poor dear Harry's '
death, and to say if there was anything she
could do for Justina or the children ; and
notwithstanding the repugnance with which
her conduct had inspired me, I could not
repulse her then. However she had
sinned, the crime and its occasion were
both past — Sir Harry was laid out ready
for his burial, and she was grieving for
him.

I am an old man, long past such follies
myself, and I hope I am a virtuous man ;
but all my virtue could not prevent my
pitying Lady Amabel in her distress, and
affording her such comfort as was possible.
And so (a little curiosity still mingling
with my compassion) I related to her in

detail, whilst I narrowly watched her
features, the last words which had been
spoken by her cousin. But if she guessed
for whom that dying entreaty had been
urged, she did not betray herself.

Poor fellow ! ' was her only remark as
she wiped her streaming eyes — ' poor dear
Harry ! Used he to call Justina " Pet ? "
I never heard him do so.'

Whereupon I decided that Lady Amabel
was too politic to be very miserable, and
that my pity had been wasted on her.

Of Airs Benson I saw nothing, but
the professor talked about attending the
funeral, and therefore I concluded that my
niece had invited them, being such intimate
friends, to remain for that ceremony.

On the afternoon of the same day I was
told that Justina desired to speak to me.
I sought the room where she was sitting,
with folded hands and darkened windows,
with nervous reluctance ; but I need not
have dreaded a scene, for her grief was
too great for outward show, and I found
her in a state which appeared to me
unnaturally calm.

Uncle,' she said, after a moment's
pause, during which we had silently
shaken hands, ' will you take these keys

and go down into — into — his study forme,
and bring up the desks and papers
which you will find in the escritoire ?
I do not like to send a servant.'

I took the keys which she extended
to me, and, not able to trust myself to
answer, kissed her forehead and left the
room again. As I turned the handle of
the study door I shuddered, the action so
vividly recalled to me the first and last
occasion upon which I had done so. The
afternoon was now far advanced, and dusk
was approaching : the blinds of the study
windows also were pulled down, which
caused the room to appear almost in darkness.
As I groped my way toward the escritoire
I stumbled over some article lying
across my path, something which lay
extended on the hearth-roof, and which
even by that feeble light 1 could discern
was a prostrated body.

With my mind full of murderous
accidents, I rushed to the window and
drew up the blind, when to my astonishment
I found that the person over whom
I had nearly fallen was no other than
poor little Mrs Benson, who was lying
in a dead faint before the arm-chair.
Fainting women not being half so much

in my line as wounded men, I felt quite
uncertain in this case how to act, and
without considering how the professor's
wife had come to be in the study or for
what reason, my first impulse was to ring
for assistance. But a second thought,
which came I know not how or whence,
made me Hft the fragile, senseless body in
my arms and carry it outside the study
door into the passage before I called for
help, which then I did lustily, and female
servants came and bore the poor 'quiet-looking
little lady ' away to her own apartments
and the care of her husband, leaving
me free to execute the errand upon which
I had been sent. Still, as I collected the
desk and papers required by my niece,
I could not help rejecting on the circumstance
I have related as being a strange
one, and could only account for it in my
own mind by the probable fact that Tvlrs
Benson had required some book from the
late Sir Harry's shelves, and, miscalculating
her strength, had left her bedroom
with the design of fetching it, and failed
before she could accomplish her purpose.
I heard several comments made on the
occurrence, during the melancholy meal
which we now called ' dinner,' by her

husband and Lady Amabel Scott, and
they both agreed with me as to the
probable reason of it ; and as soon as
the cloth was removed the professor left
us to spend the evening with his wife,
who was considered sufficiently ill to require
medical attendance.

We were a rather silent trio in the
drawing-room — Lady Amabel, Mr Scott,
and I — for ordinary occupations seemed
forbidden, and every topic harped back to
the miserable accident which had left
the hall without a master. The servants
with lengthened faces, as though attending
a funeral, had dumbly proffered us tea
and coffee, and wee had drunk them without
considering whether wee required
them, so welcome seemed anything to do ;
and I was seriously considering whether
it would appear discourteous in me to
leave the hall and return on the day of
the funeral, when a circumstance occurred
which proved more than sufficiently exciting
for all of us.

I had taken the desk, papers, and
keys, and delivered them into my niece's
hands, and I had ventured at the same
time to ask whether it would not be a
comfort to her to see Mrs Benson or some

other friend, instead of sitting in utter
loneliness and gloom. But Justina had
visibly shrunk from the proposal ; more
than that, she had begged me not to
renew it. ' I sent for you, uncle,' she
said, * because I needed help, but don't
let any one make it a precedent for trying
to see me. I couldn't speak to any one :
it would drive me mad. Leave me alone :
my only relief is in solitude and prayer.'

And so I had left her, feeling that
doubtless she was right, and communicating
her wishes on the subject to Lady.
Amabel Scott, who had several times
expressed a desire to gain admittance to
her widowed cousin.

Judge, then, of our surprise, equal and
unmitigated, when, as we sat in the
drawing-room that evening, the door
silently opened and Justina stood before
us! If she had been the ghost of Sir
Harry himself risen from the dead, she
could hardly have given us a greater
start.

'Justina!' I exclaimed, but as she advanced
toward us with her eyes riveted
on Lady Amabel, I saw that something
more than usual was the matter, and drew
backward. Justina's countenance was

deadly pale ; her dark hair, unbound from
the night before, flowed over the white-dressing
gown which she had worn all day ;
and stern and rigid she walked into the
midst of our little circle, holding a packet
of letters in her hand.

Amabel Scott,' she hissed rather than
said as she fixed a look of perfect hatred
on the beautiful face of her dead husband's
cousin, * I have detected you. You made
me miserable whilst he was alive — you
know it — with your bold looks and your
forward manners and your shameless,
open attentions ; but it is my turn now,
and before your husband I will tell you
that—'

Hush, hush, Justina!' I exclaimed,
fearful what revelation might not becoming
next. * You are forgetting yourself
; this is no time for such explanations.
Remember what lies upstairs.*

Let her go on,' interposed Lady
Annabel Scott, with wide-open, astonished
eves ; ' I am not afraid. I wish to hear of
what she accuses me.'

She had risen from her seat as soon as
she understood the purport of the widow's
speech, and crossed over to her husband's
side; and knowing what I did of her, I

was yet glad to see that Warden Scott
threw his arm about her for encouragement
and support. She may have been
thoughtless and faulty, but she was so
young, and he was gone. Besides, no
man can stand by calmly and see one
woman pitted against another.

Of what do you accuse me ? ' demanded
Lady Amabel, with heightened colour.

Of what do I accuse you ? ' almost
screamed Justina. ' Of perfidy, of treachery,
toward him,' pointing to Mr Warden
Scott, * and toward me. I accuse you of
attempting to win my dear husband's affections
from me — which you never did, thank
God ! — and of rendering this home as desolate
as it was happy. But you failed —
you failed ! '

Where are your proofs ? ' said the other
woman, quietly.

'There!' exclaimed my niece, as she
threw some four or five letters down upon
the table — ' there ! I brought them for
your husband to peruse. He kept them ;
generous and good as he was, he would
have spared you an open exposure, but I
have no such feelings in the matter. Are
you to go from this house into another to
pursue the same course of action, and per-vol.

HI. D

laps with better success ? No, not if I
can prevent it ! '

Her jealousy, rage, and grief seemed
to have overpowered her ; Justina was
almost beside herself. I entreated her to
retire, but it was of no avail. ' Not till
Warden Scott tells me what he thinks of
his wife writing those letters with a view
to seducing the affections of a married
man she persisted.

Mr Scottturnedthe letters over carelessly.

They are not from my wife,' he quietly
replied.

Do yo7i dare to say so .^ ' exclaimed
Justina to Lady Amabel.

Certainly. I never wrote one of them.
I have never written a letter to Harry
since he was married. I have never had
any occasion to do so.'

The widow turned towards me with an
ashen-preface, which itwaspitiful to behold.

Whose are they, then '^. ' she whispered,
hoarsely.

I do not know, my dear,' I replied ;
surely it matters lite now. You will
be ill if you excite yourself in this manner.
Let me conduct you back to your room ; '
but before I could do so she had fallen ina
fit at my feet. Of course, all then was

hurry and confusion, and when I returned
to the drawing-room I found Lady Amabel
crying in her husband's arms.

Oh, Warden dear she was saying, " I
shall never forgive myself. This all comes
of my wretched flirting. It's no good your
shaking your head ; you know I flirt, and
so does every one else ; but I never meant
anything by it, darling, and I thought all
the world knew how much I loved you.'

Don't be a goose ! ' replied her husband,
as he put her gently away from him ;
*■ but if you think I'm going to let you remain
in this house after what that d — d
woman — Oh, here is General Wilmer !
Well, General, after the very unpleasant
manner in which your niece has been entertaining
us, you will not be surprised to
hear that I shall take my wife away from
Durham Hall to-niorht. When Lady Trevor
comes to her senses you will perhaps
kindly explain to her the reason of our
departure, for nothing under such an insult
should have prevented my paying my
last respects to the memory of a man who
never behaved otherwise than as a gentleman
to either of us,'

I apologised for Justina as best I was
able, represented that her mind must really

"«SsiTV OF lame.

have become unhinged by her late trouble,
and that she would probably be very sorry
for v^hat she had said by-and-by ; but I
was not surprised that my arguments had
no avail in inducing Mr Scott to permit
his wife to remain at Durham Hall, and ina
few hours they had left the house. When
they were gone I took up the letters, which
still lay upon the table, and examined
them. They were addressed to Sir Harry,
written evidently in a woman's hand, and
teemed with expressions of the warmest
affection. I was not surprised that the
perusal of them had excited poor Justina's
wrathful jealousy. Turning to the signatures,
I found that they all concluded with
the same words, ' Your loving and faithful
Pet In a moment my mind had flown
back to the dying speech of poor Sir
Harry, and had absolved Lady Amabel
Scott from all my former suspicions. She
was not the woman who had penned these
letters ; she had not been in the last
thoughts of her cousin. Who, then, had
been ? That was a mystery on which
Death had set his seal, perhaps for ever.
Before I retired to rest that night I inquired
for my poor niece, and heard that
bhe had Mrs Benson with her. I was

glad of that : the women were fond of one
another, and Justina, I felt, would pour all
her griefs into the sympathising ear of the
professor's wife, and derive comfort from
weeping over them afresh with her. But
after I had got into bed I remembered
that I had left the letters lying on the
drawing-room table, where they would be
liable to be inspected by the servants, and
blow the breath of the family scandal far
and wide. It was much past midnight.
for I had sat up late, and all the household,
if not asleep, had retired to their own
apartments ; and so, wrapping a dressing-gown
about me, and thrusting my feet into
slippers, I lighted my candle, and descended
noiselessly to the lower apartments.
But when I reached the drawing-room
the letters were gone : neither on the
table nor the ottoman nor the floor were
they to be seen ; and so, vexed at my
own carelessness, but concluding that the
servants, when extinguishing the lights,
had perceived and put the papers away in
some place of safety, I prepared to return
to my own room.

The bedrooms at Durham Hall were
situated on either side of a corridor, and
fearful of rousing the family or being caught

in dishabille, I trod on tiptoe, shading my
candle with my hand. It was owing to
this circumstance, I suppose, that I had
reached the centre of the corridor without
causing the least suspicion of my presence;
hut as I passed by the apartment where
the remains of my unfortunate host lay
ready for burial, the door suddenly opened
and a light appeared upon the threshold.
I halted, expecting to see emerge the figure
of my widowed niece, but lifting my eyes,
to my astonishment I encountered the
shrinking, almost terrified, gaze of the
professor's wife. Robed in her night-dress,
pallid as the corpse which lay within,
her large frightened eyes apparently the
only living things about her, she stood
staring at me as though she had been
entranced. Her brown hair floated over
her shoulders, her feet were bare ; one
hand held a lighted candle, the other
grasped the packet of letters of which I
lead been in search. So we stood for a
moment regarding one another — I taking
in these small but important details ; she
looking as though she implored my mercy
and forbearance. And then I drew back
with the gesture of respect due to her
sex, and, clad in her white dress, she

swept past me like a startled spirit and
disappeared.

I gained my own room, but it was not
to sleep. A thousand incidents, insignificant
in themselves, but powerful when
welded into one, sprang up in my mind to
convince me that Justina and I and everybody
had been on a wrong tack, and
that in the professor's wife, the ' quiet-looking
little lady ' with her Quaker-like
robes, downcast eyes and modest appearance,
in the ' best friend ' that my niece
had ever possessed, I had discovered the
writer of those letters, the concealed visitor
in Sir Harry's room, the ' Pet' whose name
had been the last sound heard to issue
from his dying lips. For many hours I
lay awake pondering over the best course
for me to pursue. I could not bear the
thought of undeceiving my poor niece,
whose heart had already suffered so much;
besides, it seemed like sacrilege to drag to
light the secrets of the dead. At the same
time I felt that Mrs Benson should receive
some hint that her presence in Durham
Hall, at that juncture, if desired, was no
longer desirable. And the next day, finding
she was not likely to accord me an
interview, I made the reception of the

missing letters a pretext for demanding
one. She came to her room door holding
them in her hand, and the marks of trouble
were so distinct in her face that I had to
summon all my courage to go through the
task which I considered my duty.

You found these in the drawing-room
last night ? ' I said, as I received them from
her.

I did,' she answered, but her voice
trembled and her lips were very white.
She seemed to know by instinct what was
coming.

And you went to find them because
they are your own ? ' She made no answer.
Mrs Benson, I know your secret, but \
will respect it on one condition — that you
leave the Hall as soon as possible. You
must be aware that this is no place for
you.'

I never wished to come,' she answered,
weeping.

I can believe it, but for the sake of
your friend, of your husband, of yourself,
quit it as soon as possible. Here are your
letters — you had better burn them. 1
only wished to ascertain that they were
yours.'

General Wilmer — ' she commenced

gaspingly, and then she turned away and
could say no more.

Do you wish to speak to me ? ' I asked
her gently.

No — nothing ; it is useless,' she
answered with a tearless, despairing grief
which was far more shocking to behold
than either Justina's or Lady Amabel's.
He is gone, and there is nothing left ;
but thank you for your forbearance — and
good-bye.'

So we parted, and to this day, excepting
that she is released from all that could
annoy or worry her, I have learned nothing
more. How long they loved, how much
or in what degree of guilt or innocence, I
neither know nor have cared to guess at ;
it is sufficient for me that it was so, and
that while Justina was accusing the beautiful
Lady Amabel Scott of attempting to
win her husband's heart from her, it had
been given away long before to the woman
whom she termed her dearest friend — to
the woman who had apparently no beauty,
or wit, or accomplishments with which to
steal away a man's love from its rightful
owner, but who nevertheless was his ' loving
and faithful Pet,' and the last thought
upon his dying lips.

Professor and Mrs Benson never returned
to Durham Hall. It was not long afterwards
that I heard from my niece that his
wife's failing health had compelled the professor
to go abroad ; and to-day she writes
me news from Nice that Mrs Benson is
dead. Poor Pet ! I wonder if those
scared brown eyes have lost their frightened
look in heaven ?

I believe that Justina has made an
ample apology for her rudeness to Lady
Amabel and Mr Warden Scott. I know I
represented that it was her duty to do so,
and that she promised it should be done.
As for herself, she is gradually recovering
from the effects of her bereavement, and
finding comfort in the society of her sons
and daughters ; and perhaps, amongst the
surprises which I have already spoken of
as likely to await us in another sphere,
they will not be least which prove how
very soon we have been forgotten by those
we left in the world behind us.

COUPLE of springs ago, business
compelling some friends of
mine to cross over into Spain,
I gladly accepted the cordial
invitation they extended to me to visit
with them that * splendid realm of old
romance.'

Our destination was Utrera, a small
town situated between Seville and Xeres,
and lying in the midst of those vast plains
so often mentioned in the Coiiqitest of
Granada.

I confess that I was rather disappointed
to find how hurriedly we passed through

Madrid and Seville, and I longed to be
permitted to linger for a little space within
their walls ; but ours was not entirely a
party of pleasure, and a diversion was soon
created in my thoughts by our arrival at
Utrera, which, from a distance, presented
a most Oriental appearance. The houses,
many of which are built in the Moorish
fashion and dazzlingly white, stand out
clearly defined against the deep blue southern
sky ; the tall tower of Santiago, with
little perhaps but its unusual height to
recommend it to a stranger's notice, has,
nevertheless, an imposing appearance ; and
even a palm tree, which, solitary and alone,
rears its stately head in the centre of the
town, puts in its claim for adding in no
small degree to the effect of the whole
picture. Notwithstanding, with all the
combined advantages of white houses, tall
towers, solitary palm trees and romantic
situations, I would advise no one who is
not a traveller at heart or intent upon his
worldly profit to fix his residence in this
primitive little Andalusian town.

We first took up our quarters at the
posada, with the intention of remaining
there during our stay, but were soon obliged
to abandon the idea, for, though the

best inn in Utrera, it was most uncomfortable,
and noisy beyond description.

We began to look about us, therefore,
and were soon installed in a small but
beautifully clean and cool-looking house ina
street leading out of the plaza, and
found no reason to be discontented with
our abode. It boasted of a pleasant patio
(or inner courtyard) and a wide verandah
or gallery, into which our rooms opened.
As the days grew warmer (and very warm
indeed they grew after a while) this patio
was our greatest comfort ; for, following
the example of our neighbours, we had it
covered with an awning, and spent the
greater part of the day, seated with our
books or work, beside its mimic fountain.
But if we gained in material comfort by
exchanging the noisy and dirty posada for
apartments of our own, we had also drawn
down upon ourselves the burden of housekeeping,
which we found in Spain to be no
sinecure. Some friends who had resided
a few months in the town, and acquired a
fair knowledge of the language, manners,
and customs of the natives of Utrera,
volunteered to send us a maid, warranted
honest and a tolerable proficient in the art
of cookery. But she proved a care-full

blessing. To give her her due, she possessed
one good quality, and we found by
experience that it was about the only one
she or her sisterhood could boast of : she
was very fond of water. The floors of our
new house were formed of stone, partially
covered by strips of matting which were
easily removed ; and we soon lived in a perpetual
swamp. Antonia was always both
ready and willing to ' clean up,' and never
seemed happier than when dashing water
in all directions, or brushing away vigorously
at the matting with her little short-handled
broom.

By the way, I wonder why Spanish
women prefer to bend double over their
sweeping, instead of adopting our easier
method of performing the same operation ?
In vain did I strive to convince Antonia
of the advantages attendant on the use of
a broom with a long handle : she only
smiled, shook her head, and went obstinately
on her weary way.

The water for our own consumption was
drawn daily from the Moorish aqueduct
just outside the town, and brought to us
by the aguador, an old fellow who wore a
rusty black velvet turban hat stuck full of
cigarettes, besides having one always in

his mouth. He would pour the water
from his wooden barrels into a large butt
which stood in the kitchen ; but as we
discovered that he (together with all who
felt so inclined) dipped his glass, with the
fingers that held it, into the reservoir
whenever he wished to quench his thirst,
we speedily invested in a filter.

We soon found that it was utterly impossible
to infuse any ideas of cookery or
housework into the head of the fair Antonio.
If we showed her how to lay the
tablecloth and place the dishes, she eyed
us with surprise, bordering on contempt,
that ladies should perform such menial
offices ; and the next day all our instructions
were as though they had never been.
It was the same with everything, until we
decided that it was far less trouble to wait
on ourselves, and our life at Utrera resolved
itself into a picnic without an end.

Nevertheless, when we arose one morning
to find that Antonia (wearied perhaps
of English suggestions) had quietly walked
off and left us to shift entirely for ourselves,
we felt inclined to think that we
had undervalued her. But she had received
her wages on the day before, and
we learned afterward that under those

circumstances it is a common things for
Spanish servants to quit their places without
any warning, and return home for a
while to live at their ease on the produce
of their labour.

Our next attendant was Pepa, a bright,
dark-eyed girl, who always looked so picturesque,
with a spray of starry jessamine
or scarlet verbena coquettishly placed in
her black hair, that it was impossible not
to overlook her misdemeanours. She had
such an arch way of tossing her head and
shaking her long gold earrings that there
was no resisting her ; and indeed Pepa
was but too well aware of the fact herself,
and made the best use of her knowledge.

But the dinners were still our betes noirs,
and in these, notwithstanding all her prettiness,
she could help us little better than
her predecessor. The meat which we
procured was simply uneatable, but happily
animal food is little needed in those southern
climes, and we had plenty of game.
Hares, partridges, and wild ducks were
most abundant ; and a woman used constantly
to call on us with live quails for
sale, which she would despatch by sticking
one of their own feathers into their brains.

Of course, everything was more or less

spoiled which we entrusted to the tender
mercies of our handmaid ; but fortunately
there were no epicures amongst us, and
we generally received the goods the gods
provided with contentment \i not gratitude,
and had many resources to turn to
in order to eke out a distasteful meal. The
bread was excellent, and we always had
an abundance of oranges, chestnuts, melons,
and pomegranates ; so that, under the circumstances,
we were not to be pitied.

But one day Pepa, disheartened by her
repeated failures, begged to be allowed to
serve us a Spanish dinner, after tasting
which, she affirmed, we should never desire
to eat any other ; and having received
the permission of her mistress, she set to
work, and at the usual hour triumphantly
placed the national dish of ' puchero ' upon
the table. We gathered round it rather
doubtfully, but after the first timid trial
pronounced it ' not so bad, though rather
rich.' It seemed to contain a little of
everything — beef, lard, garlic, garbanzos
(or small, hard beans), lettuce, pepper,
potatoes, and I know not what besides ;
and the mixture had been kept simmering
in an earthenware pot for hours. The
next dish served by Pepa was * gaspacho/

VOL. III. E

or a Spanish salad, which is mixed quite
differently from an English one, and to
most tastes not so palatable. And then
she placed before us a large dish of rice,
profusely sprinkled with cinnamon, and
various small cakes fried in oil ; and
Pepa's Spanish dinner (which, by the way,
was only a sample, I suppose, of the most
ordinary national fare) was concluded.

We were thankful that it had been sufficiently
good to enable us to praise it
enough to give her satisfaction, though we
were compelled to adopt more than one
ruse in order, without hurting her feelings,
to escape having the same feast repeated
every day.

There are not many 'lions' in Utrera,
but, such as they are, of course we visited
them. The principal one perhaps is in
the vaults beneath the church of Santiago,
but we were scarcely prepared for the
ghastly spectacle which met our gaze there.
It appears that, many years ago, while
digging for some purpose round the church,
the workmen found several bodies, which,
owing to some peculiar quality of the soil
in which they had been buried, were ina
wonderful state of preservation ; and, by
order of the authorities, they were placed

in upright positions against the walls of
the church vaults. The old sacristan, who
acted as our cicerone, pointed out the
bodies to us with his lighted torch, and
directed our attention especially to one,
evidently that of a very stout woman,
which had still a jacket and skirt clinging
to it. Strange to say, the bodies were all
clothed, although in most cases it had
become difficult to distinguish the garments
from the remains, for all seemed to
partake of the same hue and texture. It
is a humbling sight to look upon the dead
after they have turned assail to their dust,
and with but a semblance of the human
frame left clinging to them, as though in
mockery of our mortality. We could not
bear to see the idlers who had followed our
party down into the vaults jeering at the
appearance of these poor carcases, and
touching them in a careless and irreverent
manner. Had we had our way, they
should all have been tenderly consigned
again to the bosom of their mother earth,
and we experienced a strange sensation of
relief as we turned our backs upon them
and emerged once more into the open air.
The principal object of a stroll in Utrera
is a visit to the Church of Consolation,

which stands on the outskirts of the town,
at the end of a long walk bordered with
lines of ove trees. At intervals along the
way benches are placed, and here on Sundays
and feast-days the inhabitants congregate
as they come to and from the church.
The latter is an interesting edifice, though
its architecture Is unpretending enough.

Its nave Is lofty, and on the whitewashed
walls hanof hundreds of little
waxen and silver limbs, and effigies, with
articles of children's clothing and an endless
assortment of plaited tails of hair.
These are all offerings made to ' Our Lady
of Consolation,' in fulfilment of vows or
as tokens of thanksgiving for recovery
from sickness ; and there is something
very touching in the idea of these women
giving up their most cherished possessions
(for every one knows how justly proud the
Spanish are of their magnificent hair) as
tributes of gratitude to her from whom
they have received the favours.

The walls near the western door of the
Church of Consolation are hung with innumerable
pictures, each bearing so strong
a resemblance to the other, both in style
and subject, that they might have been
drawn by the same hand. As works of

art they are valueless, for even the rules
of perspective are ignored in a most
comical manner, and with slight variations
they all represent the same subject. On
one hand is an invalid man, woman or
child, as the case may be, and on the other
a kneeling figure imploring aid for them
of the * Virgin of Consolation,' who is also
portrayed appearing to the suppliant, and
encircled by a golden halo. Beneath the
painting is inscribed the name of the
patient, the nature of his disease, and the
date of his recovery.

At the back of the church Is a lahore
garden belonging to one of the richest proprietors
in the neighbourhood of Utrera,
and as the midday heat became more oppressive
it was a favourite haunt of ours
during the cool of the evening, when the
air was laden with the perfume of orange
blossoms and other sweet-smelling flowers.
The owners of the garden permitted
it to grow wild, but that circumstance
only enhanced its beauty. The orange
trees were laden with golden fruit, of which
we were courteously invited to gather as
much as we pleased. But our visits to
this charming retreat were necessarily
short, for, as in most southern latitudes,

there was scarcely any twilight in
Utrera, and it always seemed as though
the ringing of the Angelus were a signal
for the nights immediately to set in. But
what glorious nights they were ! The
dingy oil-lamps in the streets (for gas is
an innovation which had not yet found its
way there) were little needed, as the sky
always seemed to be one bright blaze of
beautiful stars.

The cemetery at Utrera is a quiet spot,
surrounded by a high white wall and thickly
planted with cypress trees, which give ita
most solemn and melancholy appearance.
They have the custom there (I am not
sure it is not prevalent in other parts
of Spain) of burying the dead in recesses
in the walls, which are built expressly of
an immense thickness ; the coffins are
shoved into these large pigeon-holes, and
the opening is closed with a marble slab,
which bears the inscription usual in such
cases, somewhat after the fashion of open-air
catacombs. But little respect seemed
to be shown to the dead.

One day I met some children bearing a
bier, upon which was stretched the corpse
of a little girl clothed in white garments,
and with a wreath of flowers placed upon

the placid brow. The children, apparently
quite unaware of the reverence due to
their sacred burden, carelessly laughed and
chatted as they bore it along the highway,
sometimes sitting down to rest, and then
hurrying forward with unseemly haste, as
though to make up for lost time. A tall
man, wrapped in a huge cloak, and who
evidently belonged to the little cortege,
followed at a distance, but he too performed
the duty at his leisure, and seemed to find
nothing extraordinary or out of the way
in the children's want of decorum.

With the exception of periodical visits
to the Church of Consolation before mentioned,
the people of Utrera rarely seemed
to leave their houses. To walk for the
sake of walking is an idea which finds
little favour with a Spanish lady, and my
friends and myself were looked upon as
very strange beings for taking so much
exercise and caring to explore the surrounding
country.

But to our English taste it was pleasant
to stroll up the Cadiz road until we reached
a small mound situated thereon, which was
belted with shady trees and amply provided
with stone seats. This elevation commanded
the view of a vast extent of

country, with the grand frowning hills of
the Sierra Nevada in the far distance,
which the gorgeous sunsets always invested
with a strange, unearthly beauty.
The intense solitude of the scene, too, was
not without its own peculiar charm. At
intervals the silence would be broken by
the approach of a picturesque - looking
peasant bestriding a mule, the silvery
jangle of whose bells had been heard in
the calm atmosphere for some time before
he made his personal appearance. These
muleteers never failed to interrupt the
monotonous chants they are so fond of
singing, to wish us a friendly ' Buenos
tares ' (' Good evening ') while proceeding
on their way, and then we would listen to
the sound of the mule's bells and the
low rich voice of his master until both
died away in the distance, and the scene
resumed its normal condition of undisturbed
tranquillity.

We made an expedition once, by the
new railroad, to Moron, a very old town
perched on an almost perpendicular rock
and visible for miles distant. The heat
was intense, but we toiled manfully up the
steep and execrably-paved street from the
station, and, weary and footsore, were

thankful to find ourselves within the cool
walls of the fine old church. It possesses
some valuable Murillo — one of which,
representing the head of our Blessed Lord,
is especially beautiful. The altar-rails,
screen and reredos are all richly gilt, and
the sacristan, taking us into the vestry, unlocked
several massively carved chests,
which disclosed some valuable plate and
precious stones ; referring to which, he
boasted, with pardonable pride, that Utrera
could not produce anything half so handsome.
And indeed the inhabitants of
Moron may well congratulate themselves
on these treasures having escaped the
grasp of the French during the war,
for the sacristan related to us how
everything had been hidden away and
miraculously preserved from the hands
of the spoiler.

But my chit-chat is drawing to a close.
It was not without a certain regret that we
bade farewell to Utrera, for during the
whole of our stay there we had experienced
nothing but kindness from all with whom
we had come in contact, and the memory
of our sojourn in that little out-of-the-way
Andalusian town, if not fraught with
brilliant recollections, will, at all events

take its rank with that portion of the past
which has been too peaceful to rise up
again to trouble us. And it were well if
we could say the same for every part of our
storm-ridden lives.

THE END.

Apparently, there has been
much to say and write lately
upon domestic economy. From
the time, indeed, that the question
of the possibility of marriage upon
three hundred a-year was mooted, the
subject has never fairly been dropped.

Men with incomes of less than three
hundred a-year do not seem to like the
idea, that they are bound inconsequence to
renounce all thoughts of matrimony, and
inquiries respecting the matter from aggrieved
bachelors are constantly cropping
up in those corners of the weekly papers
devoted to correspondence. They have
even gone so far lately as to suggest, since
it seems impossible in this century of riots
and rinderpest to curtail one's expenses,

whether it may not be both lawful and
feasible to curtail one's family.

The question of, on how much, or on
how little, a certain number of persons can
exist, is certainly one which affects the
mass, but which, to be answered with fairness,
must be put individually. There are
women and women. What one housekeeper
can accomplish on three hundred a-
year, another cannot effect on three thousand,
for it is not incompatible with many
luxuries to possess very little comfort ; and
comfort is, after all, the essence of domestic
felicity.

Yet, it is not fair to lay the whole blame of
the impossibility of marriage in these days
upon a moderate income, on the extravagance
of women, for the difficulty is just as
often attributable to the disinclination of
men to resign the luxuries to which they
have been accustomed. For every really
extravagantly disposed female mind there
may be found two thriftily disposed ones ;
and had such minds but been endued with
the proper knowledge to carry out their
efforts to do well, existence might not be
found so difficult a matter as it appears to
be at present.

It is true that the *girl of the period'

(not the SattLvday Reviewer s 'girl' by any
manner of means), is, generally, better
dressed and more accustomed to luxury
than her mother was before her. But it
must be remembered that the expenses of
a girl before marriage are regulated by the
wishes of her parents, and because they
like to see her sail about in the last Parisian
fashion, it by no means follows that she
will always expect to be dressed the same,
or that she will not cheerfully resign some
of the luxuries she has been accustomed
to, to meet the means of the man who has
taken it upon himself to support her.

Apropos of which I have far oftener
been called upon to remonstrate with
newly-married female friends on their folly
in stripping the trousseaux, which had been
prepared for them with such care, of all
their pretty trimmings of lace and ribbon
and embroidery, in order to adorn the little
frocks and caps which are scarcely ever
noticed but by the mother herself, than to
blame them for outrunning their husbands'
means in order to procure such vanities.

Various reasons may combine to make
the parent, who can afford it, take pleasure
in seeing her daughter well dressed. A
true mother is naturally proud of a girl's

good looks ; and anxious to show them off
to the best advantage ; or the feeling that
her child may not long be with her may
make her desirous to please her to the utmost
whilst she remains. Of course, the
indulgence may arise from lower and more
mercenary motives, such as have been attributed
for many a long year to the stereotyped
' Belgravian mother ; ' but even in
such a case it does not follow that the girl
will never be able contentedly to accommodate
herself to a lower range of comfort.
It is not to be expected that, single-handed,
she should put away from her the luxuries
which her parents' income can command ;
but it remains to be proved whether she
will not willingly exchange them to become
the mistress of a house of her own, even
though it may be smaller than the one to
which she has been accustomed. Naturally
parents wish to see the children, for
whom perhaps they have worked and
slaved, comfortably settled in life ; and it
is folly for men with barely sufficient money
to keep themselves to rave against fathers
who refuse to sanction their daughters'
starving with them.

But the idea as to what constitutes starvation
has risen with the times. A little

while ago, it used to be the clergyman with
a large family on eighty pounds a-year : a
twelvemonth back it rose to the celebrated
three hundred ; ' and but a few weeks
since I heard a lady gravely affirm that
any one who contemplated marriage nowadays
with an income of less than two
thousand, must be either a madman or a
fool.

Knowing my incompetence for the task,
I have no intention in this paper of trying
to decide on how small a sum it is possible
to maintain a family in this luxurious age.
I only wish to say a few words upon what
I consider to be the secret of the economy
which has need to be exercised in these
days in the largest household as well as in
the smallest.

The order of her household is a true
woman's battle-field, and the better she
can manage it, the more comforts she can
command, and the more regularity she can
enforce upon a small income and with few
servants, the greater is the triumph of
her victory. If means are unlimited the
triumph is lost ; and the woman who hasa
thousand a-year for her housekeeping,
and is content to let her husband enjoy no
more luxury upon it than his friend who

spends five hundred, allowing the surplus
to be wasted for want of a little thought or
supervision, is not a true woman or a good
one. For if prodigality is not a sin in
itself, it arises from the indulgence of a
combination of sins, amongst which selfishness
holds chief rank.

Take the care of her household out of
a woman's hands and what remains for
her to do ? As a generality she would sit
in idleness, for these are not the days
when mothers nurse and look after their
own children, and, thanks to the sewing-machine,
the toil of needlework is over,
even in the poorest families.

She would probably take up a novel the
first thing in the morning, thereby unfitting
herself for any solid work for the remainder
of the day ; or she would waste her time
on fancy-work, or unnecessary letter-writing,
or on anything but what sensible
people who know they will be called to
account hereafter for the use they have
made of the brains God has given them
would do.

And, as a rule, I believe few women
would like to be lightened of their trouble
in this respect. The sex is uncommonly
fond of a ' little brief authority,' and even

those who have every aid at their command,
generally choose to dabble in their
housekeeping affairs. And it is just this
'dabbling' which does harm, which often
increases the expenses instead of lessening
them.

I am not a second Mrs Warren ; I have
no ambition to try and teach my sex how
to manage their husbands, houses and
children on two hundred a-year, by wiping
out the bread-pan every morning with a
clean cloth ; and making one stick of wood
do the duty of two by placing it in the
oven to dry the night before.

Mrs Warren's plan of economy is the
general one ; or rather, she follows the
general idea of what economy consists of,
namely, in exercising a constant supervision
over servants, and straining every nerve
to make the leg of mutton last a day longer
than it does with other people. And I for
my part believe that the women of England
will never know the secret of true economy
until they have dropped all such petty
interference with the kitchen, and learned
to guard their husbands' interests with
their heads instead of their eyes. There
is no doubt that in order to be thrifty it is
necessary in a great measure to limit one's

VOL. III. F

expenses, and it is a good plan habitually
to ask oneself before completing a purchase,
* Can I do without it ? '

In nine cases out of ten debts and
difficulties are incurred unnecessarily, for
articles which added neither to our respectability
nor our comfort, and which, if
seriously asked, we should have acknowledged
we could have done just as well
without. Take the generality of English
families, cut off all the superfluities in
which they indulge, all the things which
are necessary neither to their existence
nor their position as gentle-people, and, asa
rule, it will be found that such absorb a
third at least of their income.

It is not only men who have interested
themselves in the questions which have
lately sprung up respecting the general
rise in prices, and the increasing difficulties
which assail the householder. Women are
constantly comparing notes with each
other ; wondering ' where on earth ' the
money can go to, and lamenting the exorbitant
weekly bills they are called upon
to pay.

Some have tried to meet their increased
expenses by diminishing their number of
servants ; others by curtailing the kitchen

fare (the worst and most unprofitable species
of domestic economy) ; a few have gone
another way to work, and simply tried
with how many superfluities they could
dispense ; and I think these few have
succeeded the best.

It was much the fashion a short time
back for women to write to the papers
complaining of the worthlessness of their
servants, and it was not until more than
one impertinent letter reflecting on their
mistresses had been published from the
pens (or the supposed pens) of servants
themselves, that the correspondence was
perceived to be infi^a dig., and dropped.
We all know that we are very much in the
power of our servants, both as regards
comfort and economy ; and to regulate
their actions, we must sway themselves.

As a class, they are much what they
have ever been ; their characters varying
with the authority placed over them. If
Ignorant, they are bigoted ; if educated,
presumptuous ; they regard their superiors
as their natural enemies, and not one in
fifty of them is to be entirely trusted.
They no longer look upon the house they
enter as their home ; they think of it more
as a boarding-house which they can vacate

at their convenience, and themselves as
birds of passage, here to-day and gone
tomorrow.

To deal with and to control such minds
effectually, it needs to show them that ours
is infinitely the superior. If we let them
perceive that we have no means of keeping
watch over them except we do it personally,
we lower ourselves to their level,
and fail to gain their respect.

Make your servants admire you ; make
them wonder at the clearness of your perception,
the quickness of your calculations,
and the retentiveness of your memory, and
inwardly they will acknowledge themselves
the inferior, and be afraid to disobey.

You will always hear servants speak
with admiration of a mistress who has (to
quote their own phraseology) ' eyes in her
back ; ' the fact being that it requires a
mind not only educated in the popular
sense of the word, but sharpened by friction
with the world, to enable one to perceive
without seeing; and that is a state to which
the lumpish minds of the mass never attain,
and which consequently commands their
wonder and respect.

The ' excellent housekeeper ' who trots
round her kitchen every morning as a rule

opening each dresser-drawer, and uncovering
the soup-tureen and vegetable-dishes,
to see that no ' perquisites ' are concealed
therein, may occasionally light on a piece
of unhallowed fat, but she loses a hundredfold
what she gains. While she imagines
she has made a great discovery, her servants
are lau^hinof in their sleeves at her
simplicity ; for they have a hundred opportunities
of concealing to her one of finding,
and are doubtless as cunning as herself.
And for such a mistress — for one who is
for ever prying and trying to find out something
— the lower classes have the greatest
contempt ; they will neither obey nor save
for her ; they will even go the length of
wasting in order to annoy.

But, by this, I have not the least notion
of maintaining that the members of that
community, of whom I said, but a page
before, that not one in fifty is to be trusted,
are to be left to do the housekeeping by
themselves.

A lady of my acquaintance, married to
an extremely obstinate man, was asked
how she managed to influence him as she
did. ' Because I never let him know I doit,'
was the reply. ' I always have my own
way, but I make him think my way is his.'

Something of the same sort of management
is necessary with servants. Have
your own way, but make them imagine
that your way is theirs. They are truly
but * children of a larger growth.'

But, in order to do this, you must prove
yourself cleverer than they are.

Let no one grumble at the stir which has
been made lately regarding the improved
education of women, nor that public schools
and colleges are being organised for their
benefit. If the knowledge thus acquired
is never needed for the female doctors,
and lawyers, and members of Parliament,
which, as fixed institutions, England may
never see, it will be only too welcome in
domestic life ; for the usual style of conducting
a woman's education is sadly
detrimental to her interests in housekeeping.


What is the use of their being able to
play and sing and imperfectly splutter
German and Italian, when they are puzzled
by the simplest bookkeeping ? Hardly a
woman of modern times thoroughly understands
arithmetic, either mental or otherwise
; and many have forgotten, or never
properly acquired, even the commonest
rules of addition, subtraction, and division.

How is it to be expected then that they
are fit to be trusted with money, or having
it in their hands to lay it out to the best
advantage.

But to return to * head-economy* ' as it
should be exercised with regard to servants.


We will suppose that a mistress, desirous
of keeping within her allowance without
curtailing the real comfort of her husband
and children, has asked herself that simple
question, — ' Can we do without it ? * on
more than one occasion, and found it
answer, in so far that, though several
superfluities, such as dessert after dinner,
and preserves and cakes for tea have disappeared,
all the solid necessaries remain,
and the weekly bills are no longer higher
than they ought to be. How should she
act in order to keep down her expenditure
to a settled sum ; to be sure that as much,
but no more than is needful, is used in the
kitchen, the dining-room, and the nursery ;
and yet to prevent her servants resenting
her interference, or exclaiming at her
meanness ?

It is really very easy, far easier than the
other plan, if women would only believe it
to be so. It needs no store-room full of

hoarded goods, with the key of which the
servants are more familiar than yourself;
no stated times for measuring out half-pounds
of sugar and dispensing tea by
ounces ; no running down to the lower
regions a dozen times a day to give out
what may have been forgotten ; or to
satisfy oneself whether they really do cut the
joint at the kitchen supper, or revel in fresh
butter when they should be eating salt.

But it does require the knowledge necessary
to keep the housekeeping books properly.
A thorough acquaintance with the
prices of articles, and the different quantities
which a household should consume ;
and above all, to have what is commonly
called ' one's wits about one.'

If every tradesman with whom you deal
has a running account with you ; if nothing
in his book is paid for but what you have
written down yourself; if your cook has
orders to receive no meat without a check ;
has proper scales for weighing the joints
as they come in, and makes a note of any
deficiency (the checks being afterwards
compared with the butcher's book) ; it is
impossible that the tradespeople can cheat
you, and if your money is wasted, you
must waste it yourself.

It is an old-fashioned plan to pay one's
bills at the end of each week ; but it is
a very good one. Little things which
should be noticed may slip the memory at
a longer period. Besides, it is a useful reminder
; it shows how the money is going,
and if the tradesmen find you are careful,
it makes them so.

Following this plan, a quarter of an
hour every morning sees the housekeeping
affairs settled for the day, leaving the mistress
at leisure to pursue her own avocations,
and the cook to do her business in
the kitchen. It is simply a glance at the
larder, and then to write down all that will
be required until that time on the morrow ;
the dinner and breakfast orders on a slate,
and the other articles in the books appropriated
to them. After a little while it will
be found that the labour is purely mechanical
; in a quiet family the consumption is
so regular that the weekly bills will scarcely
vary, and the mistress's eye will detect the
least increase, and find out for what it has
been incurred.

At the close of each month the debit
and credit accounts should be balanced,
and then, if the allowance is at any time
exceeded, it will generally be proved that

it has gone on the superfluities before mentioned,
and not on the actual expense of
maintaining the household. When people
talk of the difficulties of 'living the
thoughts of their listeners invariably fly
to the cost of bread and meat, and they
unite in abusing the tradespeople, who
send their children to fashionable schools
on the profits which they extort from us.
But there are various ways in which men
and women can save, besides dispensing
with unnecessary eatables.

What woman, for instance, in these
days, buying a dress, does not pay twice
as much for its being made and trimmed
ready for her use as she did for the
orlofinal material ? And who that has feet
and fingers, and a sewing-machine, could
not sit down and make it in a few hours
for herself ?

But she will tell you, most likely, that
she cannot cut out properly, that she has
not the slightest taste for trimming, and
that she was not brought up to dressmaking
like a dressmaker. Ah, my dear
sisters ! are not these the days when we
should all learn ? Men may go through
life with the knowledge but of one thing —
for If they are acquainted with the duties

of their profession, they succeed — but
women need to know everything, from
putting on a poultice to playing the piano ;
and from being able to hold a conversation
with the Lord Chancellor, to clear-searching
their husbands' neckties.

I don't say we must do it, but I maintain
that we should know how.

Men are really needed but in one place,
and that is, public life ; but we are wanted
everywhere. In public and in private,
upstairs and downstairs, in the nursery
and the drawing-room, — nothing can goon
properly without us ; and if it does, if
our husbands and our servants and our
children don't need us, we cannot be doing
our duty.

Above all, we have the training of the
mistresses of future households, and the
mothers of a coming generation — the
bringing up, in fact, of the ' girls of the
next period.'

If we cannot amend the faults we see in
ourselves (an assertion which should be
paradoxical to anyone gifted with the least
energy), if we think it is too late to sit
down in our middle age, and learn to rub the
rust off our brains, and to work our heads

with our fingers, we can rear them in a
different fashion.

If we are wasteful and extravagant and
useless — deserving of all the hard things
which have been said of us lately, let us at
least take heed that our daughters are not
the same.

THE END.

jT was close upon Easter. The
long, dark days of Lent, with
their melancholy ceremonials,
were nearly over, and, as if in
recognition of the event, the sun was shining
brightly in the heavens. The hawthorn
bushes had broken into bloom, and
the wild birds were bursting their little
throats in gratitude. The boys were almost
as wild and joyous as the birds, as
they rushed about the playground, knocking
each other over in the exuberance of
their glee, and forgetting to be angry in
the remembrance that the next day would
be Holy Thursday, when they should all
go home to their fathers and mothers to
spend the Easter holidays. I alone of the

merry throng sat apart under the quick-set
hedge, joining in neither game nor gaiety,
as I wondered, with the dull, unreasoning
perception of childhood, why I had
been the one selected, out of all that crowd
of boys, to have no part in their anticipation
or their joy. Even poor, lame Jemmy,
who had no remembrance of his father or
his mother, and who had been, in a way,
adopted by our schoolmaster, and lived all
the year round, from January to December,
in the same dull house and rooms, looked
more cheerful than I did. He was incapacitated
by his infirmity from taking
part in any of the noisy games that were
going on around us, yet he smiled pleasantly
as he came limping up towards me
on his crutches, and told me that Mrs
Murray (who bestowed on him all the
mother's care he would ever know) had
promised, if he were good, to give him a
donkey ride during Easter week, and some
seeds to plant in his strip of garden.

What's the matter with you, Charlie ? '
he asked presently ; * aren't you glad to be
going home ? '

Oh ! I don't care,' I answered, listlessly.

Don't care about seeing your father and
mother again ? '

I haven't got a mother,' I rejoined,
quickly.

Is your mother dead, Hke mine ? Oh,
I am sorry ! But your father loves you for
them both, perhaps.'

No, he doesn't ! He doesn't care a bit
about me. He never asks to see me when I
do go home ; and he frightens me. I wish
I might stay all the holidays with Mrs
Murray, like you do.'

That is bad,' quoth the lame child.
Well, maybe they'll forget to send for you,
Charlie, and then we'll have fine times together,
you and I.'

I had not the same hope, however. I
knew that if by any oversight my father
forgot to send the servant for me, that my
schoolmaster would take the initiative and
despatch me home himself.

How I dreaded it. The gloomy, half-closed
house, the garden paths, green with
damp and thick with weeds, the servants
acting entirely upon their own authority,
and the master querulous, impatient, and
unjust, either shut up in his own room
brooding over the past and present, or
freely distributing oaths, complaints, and
sometimes even blows, amongst the unfortunate
inmates of his household. As for

myself, I seldom came within the range of
his arm without being terrified away, and
it had been a 2fi*eat relief to me when I returned
home for the previous Christmas
holidays to find that he was absent, and the
term of my penance passed peacefully, if
nothing else. But now he was at home
again, so my master informed me, my
father had never dreamt of writing to me,
and I looked forward to the coming visit
with dread. A strange, unnatural state of
things for a child of eight years old,
who had never known a mother's love
nor care, had never even heard her name
mentioned by any one with whom he was
connected,

What was your mother like ? ' continued
Jemmy, after a few minutes' pause, during
which we two unfortunates had been ruminating
upon our lot. ' Had she light-coloured
hair, like Mrs Murray, or dark,
like the cook .^ '

I don't know,' I answered, sadly. ' I
never saw her, that I remember.'

Haven't you got a likeness of her at
home ?' he demanded with surprise. 'Wait
till I show you mine.'

He fumbled about in his waistcoat, and
produced a much faded daguerreotype of

an ordinary-looking young woman in old-fashioned
habiliments.

Isn't she beautiful ? ' he exclaimed, with
weak enthusiasm as he pressed the miniature
to his lips.

Oh, how I wish she hadn't died ! I
know I should have loved her so much ! '

I made no reply. Poor Jemmy's imagination
did not run so fast as mine. If my
mother had lived to side with my father,
where should I have been between them ?
I turned my face away, and sighed.

It was strange that I had no idea of what
my mother had been like. I had never
even formed one, neither had I any relation
to whose memory I might have appealed
on the subject. My father lived a solitary,
aimless life in the old neglected heuse I
have alluded to, seldom leaving his own
apartments, except at meal times, and certainly
never asking any friend to enter them
to bear him company. The servants had
their parents, or lovers, or brothers, to visit
them by stealth in the kitchen, but the
master sat by himself, gloomy and preoccupied,
and irritable almost to frenzy
when provoked. No wonder I wished
that I could have spent the Easter holidays
with Mrs Murray. But a great surprise

VOL. III. G

was in store for me. The boys had hardly
concluded the game of football they had
been carrying on during my colloquy with
Jemmy, when Mrs Murray came smiling
down the playground in search of me.

I've a piece of news for you, Master
Vere,' she exclaimed. * Some one is waiting
to see you in the parlour.'

Not papa ! ' I said, quickly.

•' No ; not your papa,' replied Mrs
Murray, laying her hand compassionately
on my shoulder, ' but a new friend
a lady whom you will like very much
indeed.'

'A lady !' I repeated, in utter bewilderment,
whilst my schoolmates crowded round
Mrs Murray, with the question, * Is she
come to take Vere home ? '

Perhaps ! most probably,' was her
answer, whilst exclamations of, ' Oh, I say,
that's a jolly shame. It isn't fair. School
doesn't break up till tomorrow. We shan't
get off to-day, try as hard as we may,'
greeted her supposition from every side,
and I, trembling like a culprit, affirmed
that I would much rather not be introduced
to the pleasures of home one hour
earlier than was needful.

Come into the parlour, dear, and seethe

lady,' Mrs Murray replied, 'and we
will decide what to do afterwards.'

So my face and hair were hurriedly
washed and arranged, and I sheepishly
followed my master's wife to the formal
little apartment dedicated to the reception
of visitors, where we found the lady she
had alluded to.

Shall I ever forget her face as she rose
to greet me, and drew me ito her arms !
Such a fair, sweet, fresh face as it was, but
with an amount of sorrowful thought pictured
in the serious eyes.

And so this is Charlie Vere,' she said,
as she gazed into my features. * I should
have known you anywhere, my darling,
from your likeness to your father ! And
now do you guess who I am ? '

No ! ' I answered, shyly ; for Mrs
Murray had slipped away and left me
all alone with the stranger.

I am your mother, dear ; )our new
mother who means to love you very dearly,
and I have come to take you home ! '

Mother and Home ! How sweet the
dear familiar words sounded in my ears ;
familiar alas ! to everyone but me. The
hawthorn blossoms in the playground
seemed to smell sweeter than they had

done before, as she pronounced them, and
the birds' chorus rang out harmoniously.

'Will papa be there?' I asked, nervously.

'Papa! of course! What would home
be without your father ? '

I had found it much pleasant without
him than with him hitherto, but some instinct
made me hold my tongue.

Don't you love papa, dear ? ' the lady
went on softly. ' Don't you think that he
loves you ? '

I don't know,' I said, picking my fingers.

Poor child ! Perhaps )ou have thought
not, but that will all be altered now. 13ut
you have not yet told me if you will like
to have me for a mother ! '

I think I shall like you very much ! '

That's right, so we will go home together
and try to make each other happy.
You want a mother to look after you, dear
child, and I want a lite boy to love me.
Wee will not part again, Charlie, now I
have found you, not for the present, at all
events. You have been too long away
from home as it is. That is why I came
to-day. I could not wait till tomorrow,
even : I was so impatient to see you and
to take you home.'

How she dwelt and lingered on the word

and repeated it, as though It gave her as
much happiness to listen to as it did me.

Will you be there ? ' I asked, presently.

Of course, I shall — always ! What
would be the use of a mother, Charlie, if
she didn't live in the house close to you,
always ready to heal your troubles and
supply your wants to the utmost of her
power ? '

Oh ! let us go at once ! ' I exclaimed,
slipping my hand into hers. All dread of
my father seemed to have deserted me.
The new mother was a guardian angel,
under whose protection I felt no fear. She
was delighted with my readiness.

So we will, Charlie ! We need not
even wait for your box to be packed. Mrs
Murray can send on everything tomorrow.
And papa will be anxious until he sees us
home again ! '

My father anxious about me ! That was
a new elinor to be wondered at. I was too
much of a baby still to perceive that his
anxiety would be for her — not for me ! I
had not yet been able to grasp the idea
that she was his wife. I only regarded
her as my new mother.

As we passed out of the house, I asked
leave to say good-bye to my friend Jemmy.

His mother Is dead, like mine,' I said,
in explanation. * He will be so pleased
to hear that I have eot a new one.'

Poor boy ! ' she sighed ; ' we will ask
him to spend the summer holidays with
you Charlie. A great happiness like ours
should make us anxious to make others
happier.'

And when Jemmy came forward on his
crutches, and smiled his congratulations
on the wonderful piece of news I had to
give him, she stooped down and kissed
his forehead. Then we passed out of the
playground together, I clinging to her
hand, and proud already to hear the flattering
comments passed upon her appearance
by the other boys, and to remember that
from that time forward she was to be
called 77zy mother.

Lllyfields, as my father's house was
designated, was not more than ten or
twelve miles from the school ; but we had
to make a little railway journey to reach it,
and I thought had never travelled so pleasantly
before. My new mother laughed so
often and chatted so continuously to me,
that I caught the infection of her mirthful

loquacity, and, long before we got home,
had revealed so much of my past life and
feelings, that more than once I brought a
shadow over her sunny face, and closed
her smiling lips with a sigh. But as we
left the train and commenced to walk towards
Lilyfields, my eld fears shewed
symptoms of returning, and my sudden
silence, with the tightening clasp cf my
hand, did not pass unobserved by my
companion.

What is the matter, Charlie ? Of what
are you afraid ? '

Won't papa be angry with me for
coming back before the holidays begin ? '
I whispered.

Her clear laugh rang over the peaceful
meadows we were traversing.

If he is angry with any one, he must
be so with me, as I fetched you home
Charlie.'

And you are not afraid of him ? '
'Afraid!' The sweet serious eyes

she turned upon me as she ejaculated the
word were just about to deprecate so
monstrous an idea, when they caught sight
of an approaching figure, and danced with
a thousand little joys instead.

There he is ! ' she exclaimed excitedly.

She ran up to him, dragging me with
her.

He took her in his arms (there was not
another Having soul within sight of us)
and embraced her fervently, whilst I stood
by, open-mouthed with astonishment.

My angel,' he murmured, as she lay
there, with her face pressed close to his ;
life has been insupportable without you.'

Ah, Harold! it does me good to hear
you say so ; and I am so glad to get back
to you again. See ! here is Charlie waiting
for his father to welcome him home.'

She lifted me up in her arms — big boy
as I was — and held me towards him for a
kiss. How strange it was to feel my
father kiss me ; but he did so, though I
think his eyes never left her face the while.
Then he took her hand, and held it close
against his heart, and they walked through
the silent, balmy-breathed fields together.
As I entered the house I could hardly
help exclaiming aloud at the marvellous
changes that had taken place there. Not
an article of furniture had been changed,
not a picture moved from its place, yet
everything looked bright as the glorious
spring. The rooms had been thoroughly
cleaned, and lace curtains, snowy tablecloths,

and vases of flowers, with here and
there a bright bit of colour in the shape
of a rug, or a piece of china, had transformed
the house — not into a paradise — •
but into a home. Even my father was
changed like his surroundings. He looked
ten years younger, as with nicely kept
hair, and a becoming velveteen lounging
coat, he sunk down into an easy-chair, and
deprecated, whilst he viewed with delight,
the alacrity with which my new mother
insisted upon removing his boots and fetching
his slippers. It was such a novelty
to both of us to be attended to in any way,
that I was as much surprised as he to find
that the next elinor she did was to take
me upstairs, and tidy me for tea herself,
showering kisses and love words upon me
all the while. Oh ! the happy meal that
followed. How unlike any we had taken
in that house before! I, sitting up at
table, with my plate well provided ; my
father in his arm-chair, looking up with
loving eyes at each fresh proof of her solicitude
for him, and my new mother seated
at the tea-tray, full of smiles and innocent
jests, watching us both with the utmost
affection ; but apparently too excited to
eat much herself. Once my father noticed

her want of appetite and reproached her
with it.

I am too happy to eat, Harold ! ' washer
reply.

Too happy he repeated in a low voice,
really too happy ! No regrets, my Mary,
no fears ! Your future does not terrify
you. You would not undo the past if it
were in your power ! '

Not one moment of it, Harold ! If I
ever think of it, with even a semblance of
regret, it is that it did not begin ten years
sooner.'

God bless you ! ' was all he answered.

If I had not been such a child I should
have echoed the words ; for before many
da's were over my head, the whole of my
joyous young life was an unuttered blessing
upon her. The darkness of fear and
despondency — the most unnatural feelings
a young child can entertain — had all passed
away. I no longer dreaded my father's
presence ; on the contrary, it was my
greatest treat to bear him company as he
worked in the garden, or whistled over
his carpentering, or accompanied my
mother in strolls about the country.

He never shut himself up in his room
now, unless she was shut in too ; and

although his new-born love was for her,
and not for me, the glory of it was reflected
in his treatment of me.

So I was very happy, and so was he,
and so most people would have thought
my mother to be. But though she never
appeared before my father without a bright
face, she was not always so careful in my
presence, thinking me, perhaps, too young
to observe the changes in her countenance ;
and sometimes when she and I were alone
together, I marked the same look steal
over her which I had observed on the
occasion of our first meeting — an undercurrent
of thoughtful sadness — the look of
one who had suffered, who still suffered,
from a pain which she kept to herself.

Once I surprised her in tears — a violent
storm of tears, which she was powerless
for some time to control ; and I eagerly
inquired the reason of them.

Mamma, mamma, \vhat is it, mamma ?
Have you hurt your foot ? Did Prince
bite you ? Have you got a pain anywhere
? '

My childish mind could not comprehend
that her tears should flow for any other
than a physical reason. Did not papa and
I love her dearly } and she was afraid of

no one, and she never went to school.
What possible cause could she have for
tears ?

My mother composed herself as soon as
she was able, and laid her burning face
against my cheek.

Will my little boy love me always ? '
she asked — ' always — always — whatever
happens .'*'

Always, dear mamma. Papa and I
would die if we hadn't you. Oh, you don't
know what it was like before you came
here!'

Then mamma will never again be so
silly as to cry,* said my mother, as she
busied herself over some occupation to
divert her thoughts.

But although this was the only time she
betrayed herself so openly before me, I
often detected the trace of weeping on her
face, which she would try to disguise by
excessive mirth.

So the years went on, until one bright
summer s day a little sister was born in our
house. I hailed the advent of this infant
with the greatest possible delight. It was
such a new wonderful experience to have
a playmate so dependent on me, and yet
so entirely my own. I positively worshipped

my little sister, although her birth
was the signal for my being sent back to
school, but this time only as a weekly
boarder.

Hitherto my mother had taught me
herself, and very sorry I was to give up
those delightful lessons, which were rendered
so easy by the trouble she took to
explain them to me ; but her time was too
much taken up with her baby to allow her
to devote sufficient to me. Besides, I was
now eleven years old, growing a great lad,
and able to take every advantage of the
education afforded me at ]mr Murray's
school.

My old friend, lame Jemmy, who had
spent many a pleasant week at Lilyfields
meanwhile, was still there to welcome me
back and make me feel less of a stranger ;
and my father took away the last sting of
the new arrangement by buying me a
sturdy pony on which to ride backwards
and forwards every week to see my mother
and him.

But the greatest pang which I experienced
was parting, even for a few days,
with baby Violet. I cried over her so
much, indeed, that I made my mother cry
too, as she asked God to bless the boy

who had been a true son to her. I was
very clad to think she loved me so much,
for I loved her dearly In return ; but as I
galloped back to Lllyfields every Saturday
afternoon, my thoughts were all for the
dimpled baby sister whom I would carry
about in my arms, or roll with amongst the
newly-mown grass, rather than with those
who had proved themselves to be real
parents to me, — she from the commencement
of her knowledge of me, and he from
the date of his knowing her. It was my
mother alone I had to bless for it all.
But I had grown accustomed to happiness
by this time, and took it as my due.

My parents were very proud of their
little daughter, who grew into a lovely
child, but she did not seem to afford them
as much pleasure as pride. Sometimes I
detected my mother looking at her as we
romped together, with more pain in the
expression of her face than anything else.
Once she caught her suddenly to her
bosom, and kissed her golden curls with
passion, exclaiming, —

• Oh, my heart, if I were to go, what
would become of you ? — what wotdd
become of you ? '

I was still too young to grasp the full

meaning of her words, but I knew my
mother meant that if she died, no one
would take such good care of Violet as she
had done. So I marched up to her confidently,
with the assurance that / would
take that responsibility upon my own
shoulders.

Don't be afraid, mamma ! As soon as
I am a man, I mean to get a house all to
myself, and the best rooms in it shall befor
Violet.'

She looked at me with her sweet,
earnest, searching craze for a moment, and
then folded me in one embrace with her
own child.

Father's boy ! ' she murmured, caressingly
over me — 'father's brave, loving
boy ! No, Charlie, I will not be afraid !
If it be God's will that I should go, 1 will
trust Violet to father and to you.'

Meanwhile my father was a very contented
man. He had undergone much the
same change as myself, and forgotten, in
the sunshines that now surrounded him, all
the miserable years he had spent in that
once desolate mansion.

I do not suppose a happier nor more
peaceful family existed than we were. No

jars nor bickering ever disturbed the quiet
of the household ; everything seemed to
go as smoothly as though it had been
oiled. We were like the crew of some
ship, safely moored within a sunny harbour,
never giving a thought to what
tempests might be raging outside the
bar.

Every Saturday when I rode home on
my pony, I found my father either w^orkmg
out of doors if it were summer, or indoors
if it were winter, but always with the same
satisfied easy smile upon his countenance,
as though he had no trouble in the world,
as indeed he had not ; for my mother
warded off the most trifling annoyance
from him as though he were a sick child,
that must not be upset ; whilst she threaded
her quiet way through the kitchen and
bedrooms, with little Violet clinging to her
gown, regulating the household machinery
by her own supervision, that no accident
might occur to ruffle her husband's
temper.

I believed her in those days — I believe
her still to be the noblest woman ever
planned. One thing alone puzzled me
or rather, I should say, seemed strange
to me, for I did not allow it to go the

length of puzzlement — and that was why
we had so few visitors at Lilyfields. True,
my father had made himself so unsociable
in the old days that strangers might well
have been shy of intruding themselves
upon him now ; but my mother was so
sweet and gentle, I felt it must be their
loss rather than hers, that so few people
knew her. When, as a lad of fifteen, I
mentioned this circumstance to her, she
put it aside as a matter of course.

When I made up my mind, Charlie, to
try as far as in me lay, to render the
remainder of your father's life happy, I
was perfectly aware that I should have to
depend for companionship upon him alone.
We have each other, and eve have you and
Violet. We want no other society but
yours.'

Still, I thought the clergyman and his
wife might sometimes have come to see us,
as they did the rest of their parishioners,
and I should have liked an occasional
game of play with the sons of Squire
Roberts up at the Hall. But, with the
exception of the doctor, who sometimes
came in for a chat with my father, no
one but ourselves ever took a meal at
Lilyfields.

VOL. III. H

As I grew still older, and others
remarked on the circumstance in my hearing,
I came to the conclusion that my
father must have offended his own friends
by marrying my mother, whose connections
might be inferior to his own. This idea
was confirmed in my mind by observing
that she occasionally received letters she
was anxious to conceal, which, knowing
the frankness of her disposition, and her
great love for him, appeared very strange
to me. One day, indeed, my suspicions
became almost certainties. It so happened
that my mother had appeared very fidgety
and unlike herself at the breakfast-table,
and more than once had spoken to Violet
and me in a voice hardly to be recognised
as her own. We felt instinctively that
something was the matter, and were silent,
but my father, who was not well, seemed
irritated by the unusual annoyance. He
wished to remain quietly at home that
morning, but my mother found a dozen
reasons why he should ride to the neighbouring
town and take me with him. He
combatted her wish for some time, till,
finding that her arguments were revolving
themselves into entreaty, his affection conquered
his irresolution, and we set off

together. It was not a genial day for a
ride, and the trifling commissions my
mother had given us to execute were not
of sufficient consequence to turn the duty
into a pleasure. I was rather pleased than
otherwise, therefore, when we had left
Lilyfields some miles behind us, to find
that my pony had cast a shoe, and to be
able, according to my father's direction, to
turn back and walk it gently home again,
whilst he went forward to do my mother's
bidding.

When I reached Lilyfields I left the
animal in the stables, and, walking up to
the house, gained the hall before anyone
was sensible of my approach. What was
my surprise to hear a loud altercation going
on within the parlour. My first impulse
was to open the door ; but as my mother
turned and saw me standing on the threshold,
she came forward and pushed me back
into the hall.

Go away ! ' she whispered hurriedly ; 'go
upstairs; hide yourself somewhere, and do
not come down until I call you ! '

Her eyes were bright as though with
fever, and a scarlet spot burned on either
cheek. I saw she was labouring under
the influence of some strong excitement,

and r became intensely curious to learn
the reason.

• Whom have you in there ? ' I demanded,
for I had caught sight of another figure in
the drawing-room.

Oh ! you wish to know who I am,
young man, do you ? ' exclaimed a coarse,
uncertain voice from the other side the half-opened
door. * Well, I'm not ashamed of
myself, as shine people ought to be, and
you're quite welcome to a sight of me if
it'll give you any pleasure.'

The door was simultaneously pulled
open, and a woman stood before me.

How shall I describe her.

She may have been beautiful, perhaps,
in the days long past, but all trace of
beauty was lost in the red, blotchy,
inflamed countenance she presented to my
gaze. Her eyes were bloodshot ; her hair
dishevelled ; her dress tawdry and untidy,
and if she had even been a gentlewoman,
which I doubted, she had parted with
every sign of her breeding. As she
pushed her way up behind my mother —
looking so sad and sweet and ladylike
beside her — she inspired me with nothing
but abhorrence.
* Who is this person ? ' I repeated, with

an intimation of disgust that apparently
offended the stranger, for in a shrill voice
she commenced some explanation which
my mother was evidently most anxious
I should not hear.

Oh, Charlie ! do you love me ? ' she
whispered.

Mother ! yes ! '

Then go up to your room, now, at
once, and wait there till I come to you !
I will speak to you afterwards — I will tell
you all — only go now ! '

She spoke so earnestly that I could not
refuse her request, but did as she desired
me at once, the woman I had seen,
screaming some unintelligible sentence
after me as I ascended the stairs. But
when I found myself alone, the scene I
had witnessed recurred rather unpleasantly
to my memory. It was an extraordinary
circumstance to see a stranger at all within
our walls ; still more so a woman, and one
who dared to address my mother in loud
and reproachful tones. And I was now
sixteen, able and willing to defend her
against insult, why, therefore, had she not
claimed my services to turn this woman
from the house, instead of sending me
upstairs, as she might have done little

Violet, until she had settled the matter for
herself? But then I remembered the
trouble my mother had taken to get my
father and me away from Lilyfields that
morning, and could not believe but that
she had foreseen this visitation and prepared
against it. It was then as I had
often supposed. She had relations of
whom she was ashamed, with whom she
did not wish my father to come in contact.
Poor mother! If this was one of them, I
pitied her ! I believed the story I had
created myself so much, that I accepted it
without further proof, and when my
mother entered the room, and laying her
head against my shoulder, sobbed as if
her heart would break, I soothed her as
well as I was able, without another inquiry
as to the identity of the person with
whom I had found her.

Don't tell your father, Charlie ! ' she
said, in parting. ' Don't mention a word
to anyone of what you have seen today.
Promise me, darling ! I shall not
be happy till I have your word for it ! '

And i gave her my word, and thought
none the less of her for the secrecy, although
I regretted it need be.

Not long after this my father articled

me, at my own request, to an architect In
London, and my visits to the happy home
at Lllyfields became few and far between.
But I had the consolation of knowing that
all went well there, and that I was
taking my place in the world as a man
should do.

I had worked steadily at my profession
for two years, and was just considering
whether I had not earned the right to take
a real good long holiday at Lllyfields
(where Violet, now a fine girl of seven
years old, was still my favourite plaything),
when I received a letter from
the doctor of the village — desiring me
to come home at once as my father
was ill, beyond hope of recovery. I knew
what that meant — that he was already
gone ; and when I arrived at Lllyfields I
found It to be true ; he had died of an
attack of the heart after a couple of hours'
illness. The shock to me was very great.
I had never loved my father as I did my
mother ; the old childish recollections
had been too strong for that, but the last
few years he had permitted me to be very
happy, and I knew that to her his loss
must be irreparable. Not that she exhibited
any violent demonstration of grief.

When I first saw her, I was surprised at
her calmness. She sat beside my father's
body, day and night, without shedding
a tear ; and she spoke of his departure as
quietly as though he had only gone on
a journey from which she fully expected
him to return. But though her eyes were
dry, they never closed in sleep, and every
morsel of colour seemed to have been
blanched out of her face and hands. So
the first day passed, and when the second
dawned, I, having attained the dignity of
eighteen years, thought It behoved me
to speak of my late father's affairs and my
mother's future.

Where is father's will, mother ? '

He never made one, dear ! '

Never made a will ! That was awfully
careless.'

'Hush, Charlie!'

She would not brook the slightest censure
cast on her dead love.

But there must be a will, mother.'

Darling, there Is none ! It was the
one thought that disturbed his last moments.
But I am content to let things
be settled as they may.'

Lllyfields will be yours of course, and
everything in It,' I answered decidedly.

'No one has a better right to them than
you have. And you and Violet will live
here to your lives' end, won't you ? '

Don't ask me, dear Charlie, don't
think of it — not just yet at least ! Let us
wait until — until — it is all over, and then
decide what is best to be done ! '

Before it was all over ; matters were
decided for us.

It was the day before the funeral. I had
just gone through the mournful ceremony
of seeing my father's coffin soldered down,
and, sad and dispirited, had retired to my
own room for a little rest, when I heard the
sound of carriage wheels up on the gravel
drive. I peered over the window blind
curiously, for I had never heard of my
father's relations, and had been unable inconsequence
to communicate with any of
them. A lumbering hired fly, laden with
luggage, stopped before the door, and from
it descended, to my astonishment, the same
woman with the fiery red face whom I had
discovered in my mother's company two
years before. I decided at once that,
whatever the claims of this stranger might
be, she could not be suffered to disturb
the widow in the first agony of her crushing
grief, and, quick, as thought, I ran down

into the hall and confronted her before
she had entered the house.

I beg your pardon, madam,' I commenced,
* but Mrs Vere is unable to
see anyone at present. There has
been a great calamity in the family,
and—'

I know all about your calamity,' she
interrupted me rudely ' if it were not for
that I shouldn't be here.'

But you cannot see Mrs Vere ! ' I
repeated.

And pray who is Mrs Vere ? ' said the
woman.

My mother,' I replied proudly, 'and
I will not allow her to be annoyed or
disturbed.'

'Oh! indeed, young man. It strikes
me you take a great deal of authority
upon yourself; but as I mean to be mistress
in my own house, the sooner you
stop that sort of thing the better ! Here !
some of you women ! ' she continued,
addressing the servants who had come
up from the kitchen to learn the cause of
the unusual disturbance. ' Just help the
flyman up with my boxes, will you — and
look sharp about it.'

I was thunderstruck at her audacity.

For a moment I did not know what to
answer. But when this atrocious woman
walked past me into the parlour, and
threw herself into my dead father's
chair, I followed her, and felt compelled
to speak.

I do not understand what you mean
by talking in this way,' I said. ' Mrs
Vere is the only mistress in this house,
and — '

Well, young man, and suppose / am
Mrs Vere !'

I can suppose no such thing. You
cannot know what you are talking about.
My mother — '

Your 77iother ! And pray, what may
your name be and your age .'* '

Charles Vere ; and I was eighteen
last birthday,' I said, feeling compelled,
I knew not by what secret agency, to
reply.

Just so ! I thought as much ! Well, I
am Mrs Vere, and I am your mother ! '

My mother ! You must be mad,
or drunk ! How dare you insult the
dead man in his coffin upstairs. My
mother ! Why, she died years ago, before
I can remember.'

Did she 1 That's the fine tale, Madam,

who's been taking my place here
all this time, has told you, I suppose. But
I'll be even with her yet. I'm your father's
widow, and all he's left behind him belongs
to me, and she'll be out of this house before
another hour's over her head, or my name's
not Jane Vere !'

You lie ! ' I exclaimed passionately.
This tipsy, dissipated, coarse-looking creature,
the woman who bore me, and whom
1 had believed to be lying in her grave for
sixteen years and more. Was it wonderful
that at the first blush my mind utterly
refused to credit it ? The angry accusation
I have recorded had barely left my
lips, when I looked up and saw my another
the woman who had come as an angel of
light into my father's darkened home, and
watched over me with the tenderest affection
since — standing on the threshold, pale
and peaceful in her mourning garb, as the
Spirit of Death itself.

Mother ! say it is not true,' I cried as
I turned towards her.

Oh, Charlie, my darling boy ! my
brave, good son ! Be quiet ! bear it like a
man ; but it is true ! '

This — this woman was my father's
wife I '

She was ! '

And you, mother ! ' I exclaimed in
agony.

I was only the woman that he loved,
Charlie,' she answered, with downcast
eyes. * You must think no higher of me
than that ! '

I think the very highest of you that I
can. You were my fathers loving companion
and friend for years : you saved his
life and his reason ! You were his true,
true wife, and my mother. I shall never
think of you in any lower light.'

My emotion had found vent in tears
by that time. It was all so new and
so horrible to believe, and my mother's
hand rested fondly on my bowed head.

Then that other woman, whose existence
I can never recall without a shudder,
seized her hateful opportunity, and levelled
the most virulent abuse at my poor martyr
mother's head. Words, such as I had
never heard from a female before, rained
thickly from her lips, until I lost sight
of my own grief in my indignation at
the shower of innuendoes which were being
hurled at the person dearest to me of all
the world.

Be silent,' I said in a loud authoritative

voice. ' Were you twenty times my mother
I would not permit you to speak as
you are speaking now. If it is true that
you were my father's wife, why were you
not in your proper place, instead of leaving
your lawful duties to another ? '

Oh ! madam here can answer that
question better than myself. She knows
well enough there was no room left forme
where she was

'Untrue!' murmured my mother, but
without any anger. ' I would have shielded
your character from your boy's censure, as
I have done for so long, but justice to the
dead compels me to speak. You left this
home desolate for many miserable years
before I entered it. You deserted your
child in his infancy, but your husband had
so good and forgiving a heart that, when
you cried to him for pardon, he took you
back again and condoned your great offence,
and therefore, when you left him a second
time, the law contained no remedy for his
wrong. He was compelled to live on —
alone — dishonoured and comfortless, whilst
you — you can best tell your son what your
life has been since.'

Anyway I am Mrs Vere,' retorted the
other, ' and my husband has died intestate,

and his property belongs to me, so I'll
thank you to take your brat, and clear
out of my house before the sun goes
down.'

'Oh! mother, this is infamous! It can
never be ! '

It must be, Charlie ! It is the law. I
knew all this when I consented to come
here as your father's wife. He never deceived
me for a single moment ; and if I
have any regret that he put off providing
against this contingency until it was too
late, it is only for fear lest he should be
regretting it also. ' But, my dear, dear
love ! ' she added in a lower tone, * I acquit
you of this as of all things. I know your
great love for me never failed, and I am
content ! '

I will not believe it without further
proof!' I exclaimed. ' I will send Ellen at
once for the solicitor. I cannot leave you
alone with this horrid woman I '

Hush, Charlie! she is your mother.'

I will not acknowledge it. You are
the only mother I have ever had — the
only mother I ever will have to my
life's end.'

Mr Chorberry, the solicitor, came without
delay, but he could give me no comfort.

My poor father, by that strange Indifference
which has been the curse of so
many, had put off making his will until it
was too late, by reason of which he had
left the one to whom he owed most in
the world, the woman who had sacrificed
friends and reputation to spend her life ina
dull country home, administering to his
pleasures, entirely dependent on her own
resources for support — whilst the faithless,
drunken creature he had the misfortune to
be still chained to, walked in as the lawful
wife, and claimed her share of the property.
There was only one drop of balm in his
decision. I, as my father's son, shared
what he had left behind him, but my angel
mother and dear baby-sister were cast upon
the world to shift for themselves.

And this was the law.

Oh, father ! did your spirit look down
from whichever sphere it had been translated
to, and witness this ?

But, surely,' I said to Chorberry,
there can be no necessity for my mother
leaving Lilyfields before the funeral ? '

Of course there is no necessity ; but do
you think it advisable, under the circumstances,
that she should remain ? Mrs Vere
has the legal power to enforce her departure,

and I am afraid will not be slow to
use it.'

My mother evidently was of one mind
with him, for in an incredibly short space
of time she had packed her belongings.
Mrs Vere, standing over her meanwhile
to see she did not purloin anything from
the house, and was waiting in the hall with
little Violet, ready to go to the house of the
clergyman's wife, who, to her honour, having
heard how matters stood at Lilyfields, had
promptly sent my mother an invitation to
the vicarage for the night.

Are you ready, dear mother ? ' I said
sadly, as I joined her in the hall, and drew
her arm within my own.

*Well, Mr Charles, I suppose I shall
see you back again here before long ? '
screamed the shrill voice of Mrs Vere down
the staircase.

I started.

See nne back ! Was it possible that
this woman believed I intended to make
friends with her .'*

We've been parted long enough, it
strikes me,' she continued ; ' and now your
father's gone, and left no one behind him but
yourself, I suppose you'll be looking out
for my share of the property at my death,

VOL. III. I

so we may as well let bye-gone be bygones
— eh ? '

I wish for none of your property,
madam,' I answered haughtily, ' since the
law gives it to you you are welcome to
keep it.'

Charlie, dear, think what you may be
resigning,' urged my mother in my ear.

I think of nothing \>\\i you, mother ! '

Hoity, toity ! here's manners,' cried
the other woman. ' You seem to forget,
Master Charlie, that Feu your mother ! '

Still holding my mother s hand, I turned
and confronted her.

I forget nothing, madam ! I wish I
could ; but I remember that here stands the
woman who laboured where you refused to
work; who loved, where you had insulted and
betrayed ; who was faithful where you were
faithless and undeserving ; and, I say, that
here stands my dead father's true wife ; and
here stands, in God's sight, my another !
The blessing of man may not have sanctified
her union, but the blessing of heaven
shall be upon it and upon her — upon the
creatures she rescued from a living death
and upon the gracious hand with which she
did it, until time itself shall be no more.

So saying, I passed with my mother beyond

the gates of Lilyfields, to make a new
life for her in some quiet spot where she
might outHve her grief, and to repay, if
possible, by the protection and support of
my manhood, the love she had given meas
a little child.

THE END.

ARDENNES.

EVER is raging in Brussels, and
we are advised to quit the town
as soon as possible. The question
is, where to go. I suggest
Rochefort in the Ardennes, having ascertained
previously that the place is healthy ;
but my friends laugh at me. ' Rochefort
in February ! We shall all be frozen to
death.' ' At least,' I argue, ' there is pure
air to breathe.' * But you can have no
idea of the dulness,' is all the reply I
receive ; ' Rochefort, with its one street
and its one resident is bad enough in the

summer, but at this season it will be
unendurable.' Yet I am not to be turned
from my purpose. I consider it is better
to be frozen outwardly than burned inwardly
; and that when one is flying from
a pestilence, there is no time to regret
the numerous pleasures left behind, or
the few that loom in the future. And
so we settle finally that, notwithstanding
its promised disadvantages, we will thankfully
accept the refuge Rochefort can
afford us ; and having made up our
minds to go, we start twenty-four hours
afterwards.

Being pent-up in a railway carriage
with half-a-dozen mankind and womankind,
who suck oranges half the time, and
obtrude their little persons between your
view and the window the other half, is
not perhaps the most favourable situation
from which to contemplate the beauties
of nature : for which reason, perhaps, it
is as well that for the first part of our
journey nature presents no beauties for
our contemplation, and thereby our naturally
mild tempers are prevented from

boiling over. But when we have accomplished
about fifty miles (Rochefort
being distant from Brussels seventy miles)
the country begins to assume a different
and far more engaging aspect. The flat
table - land, much of it marshy and undrained,
which has scarcely been varied
hitherto, gives place to swelling hills, half
rock, half heather, and charming copses
of fir, some of which are very extensive.
The scenery becomes altogether more
wooded and naturally fertile-looking ; and
houses and farmsteads lose all trace of
British contiguity, and become proportionately
interesting to curious English eyes.
The train is an express, and as it dashes
past the fragile, roughly-built little stations
with which the road is bordered, it is
amusing, or rather I should say it would
be amusing, did it not suggest the idea
of accidents, to see the signal-flags displayed
by peasant-women in every variety
of attitude and costume.

Here stands a stolid, solid Belgian girl,
of eighteen years of age probably, and
stout enough for forty, with a waist like

a tar-barrel, and legs to match, who nurses
her flag as if it were a baby, and gazes
at the flying train with a countenance
which could not be more impassive were
it carved in wood. We have hardly
finished laughing at her, when the train
rushes past another station, at which appears
a withered old crone, her head tied
up in a coloured handkerchief, and her
petticoats, cut up to her knees, looking
cruelly short for such a wintry day, and
displaying a pair of attenuated legs and
feet for which the huge wooden sabots
look miles too large. She waves about
the signal - flag in a nervous, agitated
manner, which suggests the idea that she
is not quite sure whether she has caught
up the right one or not ; but before we
have time to be made uncomfortable by
the fact, we are passing another of these
Belgic ' shanties,' at the door of which
appears for a moment a middle - aged
woman, who waves the signal at us in a
menacing manner, and rushes back immediately
to her children or her cooking.
Remembering our own signalled, and

the importance attached to their capabilities
and education for the important office
assigned them, it ceases to be a matter
of amusement to see the Ives of hundreds
daily intrusted to the direction of such
ignorant creatures as these. I suppose
that ' Monsieur,' smoking at his ease bv
the fireside in the little wooden station-house,
directs the actions of his mother,
wife, or daughter ; but what are the
authorities about not to insist on his
performing his duty himself?

Notwithstanding all which, however, our
train reaches Semele (the nearest station to
Rochefort) in safety, and in the midst of a
wind sufficient, if not to take our heads, to
take our hats off, we and our belongings
come to the ground. It takes some minutes
to get our nine packages together ; and
when we present ourselves at the door of
the diligence, it is nearly full. I look
despairingly at the nurse and ail the children,
and decide that the younger members
of the family must go by diligence, and the
elder shall walk with me to Rochefort. But
the Rochefortians are too polite to permit

such a thing. Two of them insist upon
getting out and giving up their places to
the children. I protest against such a proceeding,
of course, as in duty bound, but
they will hear of no excuse, and start off
walking at such a pace that they are out of
sight before the diligence is set in motion.
At last the luggage is all packed away on
the top, and we are all packed away inside,
in company with two gentlemen, who open
the conversation pleasantly by asking us
where we come from, and telling us that
we must not expect to find Rochefort as
large as Brussels, which, to say truth, we
had scarcely anticipated. The talk becomes
fragmentary, for the diligence rattles
and jolts over the stony, hilly road, and the
bells on the horses' collars jangle in unison ;
and the baby is so enchanted with the noise,
that he shouts till no one can be heard but
himself. But twenty minutes' purgatory
brings us into a long, steep, narrow street,
paved with stones, and bordered with 
houses ; and I have hardly time
to ask, * Is this Rochefort?' when the
diligence draws up before a whitewashed

house with a sign swinging before the door,
and I am asked if we are for the Hotel Iron.
No, we are for the Hotel de la Clothe door ;
and as no one seems to be for the Hotel
Iron, the diligence continues to climb the
stony street until it reaches the summit, and
halts before the Hotel de la Clothe door.

Here we all unpack ourselves; and a
buxom German landlady, with a kind,
motherly face, comes down the steps to
greet us. She has received my letter ; the
beds are all ready for us ; the dinner will
be on the table in half-an-hour ; we are to
be pleased to enter, and make ourselves at
home. We are very pleased ; for we are
dreadfully tired (not cold, for the weather
is unnaturally mild), and have not had
anything substantial to eat all the day.
We climb up the steps of the hotel, which
looks just like a farmhouse abutting on the
main street, and find ourselves in a sanded
room, containing a long wooden table, with
benches either side of it, and bearing evident
reminiscences of smoking and drinking
in fact, ' not to put too fine a point on it,'
the public tap-room — but where we are met

by the landlady's two eldest daughters,
Therese and Josephine, who are beaming
in their welcome. They usher us into a
second room, where the children scream at
the sight of a table laid for dinner, and the
four corners of which bear bowls of whipped
cream and custard, and rosy Ardennes
apples, and biscuits just out of the oven.
The little people want to begin at once,
and cannot be brought to see the necessity
of washing their faces and hands first, or
waiting till the meat and potatoes shall be
placed upon the table. Would Madame
like to see the cha7nbres-d'C0ucher at once 1
Madame saying yes, Therese catches up
the youngest child but one, and, preceded
by Josephine, we enter first a scullery, next
a bricked passage, thence mount a most
perilous set of dark narrow stairs, and
stumble into a long whitewashed corridor,
which terminates in a glass-door opening
on to a garden. Here three doors successively
thrown open introduce us to our
bedrooms ; and the trunks having been
brought up the breakneck stairs, we take
possession at once. The little white-curtained

beds are small, but beautifully clean,
and each one is surmounted by its eider-down
quilt in a coloured cotton case. Two
little islands of carpet in a sea of painted
boards represent the coverings of the floors ;
and the washing-stands are only deal-tables,
and there are no chests of drawers ; but we
inhale the fresh, vigorous breeze which is
pouring through the windows (open even
at that season), and think of fever-infected
Brussels, and are content. But though it
is all very nice and clean, we cannot possibly
wash without water, nor dry our
hands without towels.

An imbecile shout from the door for anybody
or anything brings a broad-featured,
rosy, grinning German girl to our aid, who,
when she is asked her name, says it is
Katrine, but we can call her by any name
we please. The pronunciation of ' Katrine '
not presenting those difficulties to our
foreign tongues which the owner of it
seems to anticipate, we prefer to adhere
to her baptismal cognomen, instead of
naming her afresh, and desire Katrine to
bring us some hot water and towels ; on

which she disappears, still on the broad
grin, and returns with a pall of warm
water, which she sets down in the middle
of the room. We manage well enough
with that, however, but are at our wits' end
when, on being asked for more of the same
fluid with which to mix the baby's bottle,
she presents it to us in a washing-basin.
But as, a few minutes after, I encounter
her in the corridor carrying a coffee-pot
full to E — 's room, I conclude that in
Rochefort it is the fashion to use vessels
indiscriminately, and resolve thenceforth
to take the goods the gods provide, without
questioning.

On descending to the dining-room, wee find
that the gods have been very munificent in
their gifts. After the soup appears roast
beef ; and as we are very hungry, we cause
it to look foolish, and are just congratulating
each other on having made an excellent
dinner, when in trots Therese, pops our
dirty knives and forks upon the table-cloth,
whips away our plates, with that which
contains the remainder of the beef, and
puts down a dish of mutton-chops in its

stead. We look at one another in despair ;
we feel it to be perfectly impossible to
begin again upon mutton-chops, and I am
obliged to hint the same to Therese in the
most delicate manner in the world. She
expostulates ; but to no purpose, and leaves
the room, mutton-chops in hand. But
only to give place to her mother, who enters
with a countenance of dismay to inquire
what is wrong with the cooking that we
cannot eat.

Nothing is wrong ; we have eaten remarkably
well. It is our capabilities of
stowage which are at fault. Will we not
have the hare, which is just ready to be
served up ?

Sorry as we are to do it, we must decline
the hare ; and as we affirm that we are
ready for the pudding, and nothing else, we
feel we have sunk in Madame's estimation.

The pudding, a cojnpote of apples and
preserves, with the whipped cream and
custard, is delicious ; and as soon as we
have discussed it, we are very thankful to
stretch ourselves under the eider-down
quilts, and know the day to be over. We

have done work enough that day to entitle
us to twelve hours' repose ; yet we are all
wide-awake with the first beams of the
morning sun.

We dress ourselves with the pleasurable
anticipation of seeing new things, however
simple, and come down-stairs to a ,
in its way as plentifully spread as
the dinner-table of the night before. We
have an abundance of milk, — so fresh from
the cow that it is covered with froth, and
the jug which contains it is quite warm, —
eggs, cold meat, home-made bread in huge
brown loaves, good butter, and strong clear
coffee. In fact, we come to the conclusion
that our landlady knows how to live, and
we no longer marvel at the rosy cheeks and
full forms of Therese and Josephine, nor
that Madame herself fills out her dresses in
such a magnificent manner.

E — has been for a stroll before breakfast,
and brings back a report of ruins on
the high ground ; he has already unpacked
his sketch-books and sharpened his pencils.
We, not being walking encyclopaedias,
seize our Continental Bradshaw, and find

that the ruins are those of a castle In which
Lafayette was made prisoner by the Austrians
in 1792.

As soon as breakfast is concluded, we
rush off to see the ruined castle, which
stands on an eminence just above the hotel,
and which our landlady (who walks into our
sitting-room and takes a chair in the most
confiding manner possible whenever she
feels so inclined) informs us, although not
open to the public, belongs to a lady whose
house is built on the same ground, and who
will doubtless allow us to look over it.
We can see the remains of the castle before
we reach them, and decide that it must
have been uglier and less interesting when
whole than now, having been evidently
designed with a view to strength rather
than beauty. The little winding acclivities
path which leads to it, bounded by a
low wall fringed with ferns and mosses, is
perhaps the prettiest part of the whole concern
; butjustas we have scaled it, and come
upon the private dwelling-house, our poetic
meditations are interrupted by the onslaught
of half-a-dozen dogs (one of which

VOL. III. K

is loose, and makes fierce snaps at our unprotected
legs), which rush out of their
kennels at chains' length, and bark so
vociferously, that we feel we have no need
to make our presence known by knocking
at the door. A child appears at it ; and
we inquire politely if we may see the
ruins, at which she shakes her head, and
we imagine she doesn't understand our
Parisian French.

But in another moment we are undeceived,
for the shrill, vixenish voice of a
woman (may dogs dance upon her grave !)
exclaims sharply from the open door,
Ferme, fenjiez ; on ne pent pas entrer!
The child obediently claps it to in our faces,
and we retrace our steps, with a conviction
that the lady is like her castle — more strong
than beautiful. E — is so disgusted that
he will not even sketch the ruins from the
opposite side of the road, up which another
precipitous path leads us to a long walk,
which in summer must be a perfect bower,
from the interlacing of the branches of the
trees with which it is bordered ; and from
which we have a far better view of the ruins

than the utmost politeness of their owner
could have afforded us. But no ; judgment
has gone out against them ; we decide they
are heavy and unpicturesque, and not worth
the trouble ; and we walk on in hopes of
finding something better: and are rewarded.
At the close of the long over-shadowed
walk, a quaint little chapel, beside which
stands a painted wooden crucifix nearly the
size of life, excites our curiosity, and, walking
round it, we come upon one of the
loveliest scenes, even in the month of
February, that Nature ever produced.

A green valley, creeping in sinuous folds
between two ranges of high hills ; one
rocky and coated with heather, the other
clothed with wood. Beneath the rocky
range there winds a road bordered by trees,
along which we can see the red diligence
which brought us from the station taking
its jangling way, — and beside it runs a
stream, terminating in a cascade and a
bridge, and the commencement of the
lower part of Rochefort. All the fields are
cut upon the sides of hills, and are diversified
by clumps of rock covered with ferns,

and usually the groundwork of a well, protected
by a few rough planks, or the
fountain-head of a mountain-stream which
trickles down until it joins the river. This
is the valley of Semele, to see which in the
proper season would alone be worth a
journey to Rochefort. We look and
admire, and lament the impossibility of
ever transferring such a scene to canvas as
it should be done ; and then we turn back
whence we came, and find we are standing
at the entrance of an artificial cave, situated
at the back of the crucifix before alluded
to, and which forms perhaps as great a
contrast to the natural loveliness we have
just looked upon, as could well be. Apparently
it is the tomb of some woman, by
the framed requests which hang on either
side that prayers may be offered for the repose
of her soul ; but had her friends turned
out upon her grave all the maimed and
motley rubbish to be found in a nursery
playbox of some years' standing, they could
scarcely have decorated it in a less seemly
manner. At the end of the cave is a
wooden grating, behind which is exhibited

one of those tawdry assemblages of horrors
which tend more perhaps than all else to
bring ridicule on the Roman Catholic
religion, so utterly opposed are they to our
conceived ideas of what is sacred. Two or
three rudely-carved and coarsely-painted,
almost grotesque, wooden groups of the
dead Christ, the Holy Family, and the
Crucifixion, form the groundwork of this
exhibition : the interstices being filled up
with gold-and-white jars of dirty artificial
flowers ; framed prints of saints with lace
borders, reminding one of the worst description
of valentines ; and composite
figures, supposed to represent the same
individuals, and which may have cost fifty
centimes apiece. The collection is such as
to make the spectator shudder to see holy
things so unholy treated ; and it is difficult
to conceive how, in this century, when art
has been carried to such a pitch that even
our commonest jugs and basons have
assumed forms consistent with it, anyone,
even the lowest, can be satisfied with such
designs and colouring as these things
display.

Returning homeward by the lower part
of the town, we pass a maison religieuse
dedicated to St Joseph, and in the garden
see the good Httle sisters joining their
pupils, to the number of forty or fifty, in a
merry game of ' Here we go round the
mulberry-bush,' and apparently taking as
much pleasure in the exercise as the
youngest there. The church and churchyard
stand at this end of Rochefort. There
is nothing in the building to attract one's
notice, except that we agree that it is the
ugliest we have ever seen ; but we walk
round the little churchyard, the paucity of
graves in which speaks well for the climate
of the place. The crosses and railings,
made of the commonest wood and in the
most fragile manner, are all rotting as they
stand or lie (several having assumed the
recumbent position) ; and we are leaving
the spot with the conviction that we have
wasted five minutes, when we come against
a crucifix fastened by heavy iron clamps
against the wall of the church. A common
iron cross, rusty and red from damp and
age, with a figure nailed on it of the most

perfect bronze, old and hard, and dark and
bright, and as unchanged by weather and
exposure as on the day (perhaps hundreds
of years ago) it was first placed there.

Toiling up the street again, and examining
the shops as we go, I say that, much
as I like Rochefort, I do not advise anyone
to come here in order to purchase their
wedding troicsseatc, or lay in a stock of
winter clothing. We look in vain for
something to buy in remembrance of the
place ; but can see nothing out of the way,
except it is a yellow teapot, holding at the
least four quarts, and with a curled spout
to prevent the tea coming out too fast,
which must be almost necessary with such
a load of liquid. The teapot is delicious,
and quite unique ; but scarcely worth, we
think, the trouble of transportation. We
have but just decided this matter to our
satisfaction when we come upon a ' miscellaneous
warehouse,' upon whose front is
painted ' Cartes pour les grottes de Roche-fort,'
and remember that we must see the
famous grotto, and turn in to ask the price
of admission. Five francs a-head ; children

half-price. We think the charge is high ;
but Monsieur C — (to whom the grotto
belongs) takes us into his house and shows
us prints of the different views of its
interior, which fire our imagination to that
degree, that we decide at once to see it the
next morning. We look over a book also
in which visitors to the grotto have written
down their first impressions ; and these
testimonials excite our curiosity still further.
A Persian describes himself as having
been suddenly transported into fairyland;
and can liken the vast caverns to nothing
but the palace of his great master the
Sultan, and the various forms assumed by
the stalactites to those of lovely houris
grouped about him. A French poet, in
rapturous verse, compares the grotto to
the enchanted halls of the Arabian Nights,
and the stalactites to ' frozen tears.' Every
traveller declares the sight to have been
more wonderful and beautiful than anything
he has ever seen before, until we become
quite sorry to think we must put off seeing
it until the morning ; and our expectations
are heightened by the rapid assurance of

Monsieur C — (who always keeps his
hands moving, and never stops to consider
his commas), that it is ' tresbeaiU7'esbeau-
tresbeazt ! ' However, we agree to return
the next day at eleven o'clock, when he
promises the guides shall be in readiness
for us ; and we go home to another excellent
dinner, the pleasure of which is only
marred by the fact that Therese will make
us use the same knives and forks for every
course ; and we haven't the strength of
mind to resist.

Yesterday I spoke to madame on the
necessity of engaging someone during the
mornings to read French and German with
the girls, as we shall most likely be here
for a month ; and it is too long a time for
them to be idle. Madame did not think I
should find a demoiselle in Rochefort who
could instruct them ; but there is a professeur
here who has passed all his college
examinations, and who, if he has the time,
will doubtless be very glad of the employment.
I asked her to send for the professeur
that I might speak to him on the
subject ; and here, just as we have done

dinner, he arrives ; for madame throws
open the door, and with a certain pride in
her voice (pride that Rochefort should
possess such an article), announces ' Monsieur
le Professed! I glance up, thinking
of Charlotte Bronze and her professor, and
hoping this one may not prove as dirty
and seedy and snuffy, and, to my amazement,
see standing on the threshold a lad
of about seventeen or eighteen, dressed in
green trousers and a blue blouse, and holding
his cap in his hand. The two girls
immediately choke, and bury their faces in
their books, which renders my task of
catechising rather a difficult one ; and I
glance at E — for aid, but his countenance
is almost level with the table as he
pretends to draw. So I find there is
nothing to be done but to beg the professeur
to be seated, — a request which he
steadily refuses to comply with ; and as he
stands there, twisting his cap in his hands,
he looks so like a butcher-boy, that it is a
mercy I do not ask him what meat he has
to-day.

But the poor young man is so horribly

nervous, as he tells me that, though qualified
for a tutor, he has never taught before,
that I have not the heart to refuse him on
account of his youth ; besides, is he not the
sole professeur in Rochefort ? So I give
him leave to come the next morning, and
try, at all events, what he can do with the
girls ; and he looks very happy for the
permission. And we see him a minute
afterwards, striding proudly down the street,
whistling as he goes, and holding his
head half an inch higher for having
*got situation.' Of course the children
make merry over him for the rest of the
evening, and cannot recall the appearance
of their pro/esse2cr without shrieks of laughter
; but he comes the next morning, nevertheless,
to commence his duties, and proves
to be quite as particular as older teachers,
and much more competent than some, and
takes the youngest girl completely aback
by telling her she shall be punished if she
is not steady.

At eleven o'clock the next morning weare
all ready to view the grottoes, and
E — and I, with the two eldest children,

start off on our expedition. The way to
their entrance lies through Monsieur C — 's
park, which in summer must be a very-charming
resort. He has collected here
all the wild animals indigenous to the
Ardennes, and shows them to us as we
walk to the mouth of the grottoes. Close
to his house he has a splendid wolf and
three foxes — the golden, silver, and common
fox. I should have preferred to keep
these interesting specimens a little further
off from my own nose ; but there is no
accounting for tastes. In the aviary he
has squirrels, guinea-pigs, doves, pigeons,
and the most magnificent pair of horned
owls I have ever seen. These birds, which
are as fierce as possible, have eyes of jet
and amber, as big as half-crowns, and when
in their rage they spring at passers-by,
they make a noise with their beaks just
like castanets.

A little farther up the park we come
upon the Ardennes deer, which are thicker
built and less graceful than the English
fallow-deer, with which they are consorting
; and a wild boar, with fierce tusks and

a savage grunt, wallowing in a parterre of
clay, which, nevertheless, knows his master,
and puts his ugly snout out to be scratched
between the palisades of his domain.
Monsieur C — only conducts us as far as
the entrance of the grotto, and there
delivers us over to the care of the guides,
two in number, who each carry a couple
of petroleum lamps, and have ' Grottes de
Rochefort ' written on their husbands.
They ask us if we will have costumes to
enter the caves with, and we decline, not
knowing the dirt we shall encounter ; but
we exchange our own hats for little, grey
linen ones, trimmed with a cockade and
bunch of small red feathers in front, made
after the pattern of those adopted by the
monkeys on the organs, and in which we
appear very comical to each other's eyes.
Everything is ready, and down we go —
down the first flight of steps, which is steep
but easy, and which, Monsieur C — shouts
after us, will be the most difficult descent
of all (I wonder if he impresses that fable
on all his visitors) until the ivy and fern-covered
entrance is passed, and we enter

the very mouth of the cave, which is yet
light enough to let us see that several
such flights have still to be descended.
We have hardly reached the middle of the
second, and daylight is not yet left behind
us, when E — calls out that he cannot
breathe, and must go up into the fresh air
again. The guides insist that monsieur
must be mistaken, and no one is ever
taken ill there. I insist, on the other hand,
that monsieur's wishes must be complied
with, and we must accompany him to the
top, which we do. I would rather not go
back again then, and make the dark pilgrimage
alone with the children, but E — begs we
will, and the girls look disappointed ; so we
retrace our steps, leaving him in the park.

I confess that as I go down the second
time I feel a little nervous, and my limbs
shake. I don't like this going down, down,
down into the shades of eternal night, with
no companions but two little children.

But at last we stand on level ground
again. There is no light anywhere except
from the guides' lamps, the foremost one
(who is always spokesman) waves his above

his head, and introduces la grande salle,
I look up and around me, but all is black
as pitch. I feel that I am standing on
broken flints and a great deal of mud ; and
as the guide's lamp throws its faint gleam
here and there, I see that the cavern we
stand in is very vast and damp, and uncommonly
like a huge cellar ; but I can't say
I see anything more. In another minute
the guide has turned, and leads us through
a passage cut in the rock. We are not
going up or downstairs now, but picking
our way over slippery stones and between
places sometimes so narrow and sometimes
so low, that our shoulders get various
bumps and bruises, and the guide's warning
of ' Garde tete !' sounds continuously.
Every now and then we come upon a
larger excavation, which is called a salle,
and given some name consequent on the
likeness assumed by the stalactites contained
in it. Thus one is called salle de
Brahma, because it contains a large stalactite,
somewhat resembling the idol of thanes
Another salle du sacrifice, because
its principal attraction is a large flat stone

at the foot of which is another, shaped
sausage-wise, and entitled tombeau de la
victime. We pace after the guides through
these cavernous passages for what appears
to me miles, my mind meanwhile being
divided between fear that I should leave
my boots behind me in the slushy clay, or
that either of my children should tumbledown
or knock her head. Every cavern
is like the other, and I look in vain for
stalactites which shall remind me of ' houris
grouped about the sultan, or ' frozen tears
The guides occasionally produce a fine
effect by burning a little red fire, or letting-off
a rocket, or climbing singly up the
more perilous places, that we may watch
the gradual ascent of their flickering lamps,
and judge of the height of the larger salles.
But I suppose the enthusiastic scribblers
in the visitors' book would consider me the
possessor of a very darkened intellect if
they heard me affirm that I have seen
better effects on the stage, and climbed
greater heights with much more convenience.
Perhaps I have not a sufficiently
appreciative soul for grottoes ; but the

greater part of the grotto of Rochefort
comes up exactly to my idea of a mine, and
nothing more.

The ' glittering ' stalactites are nowhere.
The cave is lined with stalactites, but (with
the exception of a few white ones) they are
all of a uniform pale-brown colour, and
have no idea of glittering or being prismatic.
The greatest wonder of the grotto
is its vastness, which may be estimated
from the fact that we are two hours going
over it, and then have not traversed the
whole on account of fresh works being carried
on in parts. We penetrate to its very
depths to see the river and the waterfall,
but the mud is so excessive that we are
compelled to stop, and let the guide descend
with his lamp and flash it over the water,
which is really very pretty, and, strange to
relate, contains good trout.

Then we plough our way upwards again ;
up fungus-covered ladders, and wet, slippery
stairs, upon which it is most difficult
to keep a footing, until we arrive at decidedly
the finest sight there — the salle du
sabbat. Here the guides send up a spirit-vol.

III. L

balloon, to show us the height and extent
of the vast cavern, and we are rather awestruck,
particularly as, in order that we
may see the full effect, the other guide
plants us on three chairs and takes away
both the lamps, leaving us seated in the
darkness, on the edge of a precipice. The
blackness is so thick about us that we can
almost feet it ; and the silence is that of
death. My youngest girl slips her little
hand in mine, and whispers, ' Mamma, supposing
he weren't to come back again ! '
and I can't say the prospect pleases. However,
the balloon reaches the top of the
cavern, and is hauled back again ; and the
guide does come back ; and, whilst he is
assisting his fellow to pack it away, I sing
a verse of ' God save the Queen,' for the
children to hear the echo, which is stupendous.


Then we see the prettiest thing, perhaps,
we have seen yet. At the top of the
sa//e du sabbat there is a kind of breakage
in the side, and a large cluster of stalactites.
One guide climbs up to this place
and holds his lamp behind the group,

whilst the other calls out ' la fence qui
repose ; ' when lo ! before us there appears
almost an exact representation of a woman,
reclining with crossed legs, and a child on
her bosom. It is so good an imitation,
that it might be a figure carved in stone
and placed there, and I think the sight
gave us more pleasure than anything in the
grotto. We have come upon several
groups of stalactites already, to which the
guides have given names, such as range
de la rdstirrecti07i, corneille de Elephant, and
le lion Beige; but though they have, of
course, borne some resemblance to the
figures mentioned, the likeness is only admitted
for want of a better. This likeness,
however, is excellent, could hardly be more
like ; and we are proportionately pleased.
With the salle du sabbat and the balloon
the exhibition Is ended ; and we are thankful
to emerge into the fresh air again, and
to leave slippery staircases and the smell
of fungi behind us.

We feel very heated when we stand on
the breezy hill again, for the grotto, contrary
to our expectation, has proved exceedingly

warm, and the exercise has made
us feel more so ; and daylight looks so
strange that we can scarcely persuade ourselves
we have not been passing the night
down below. We have picked up several
little loose bits of stone and stalactite during
our progress, and when we reach home,
we spread them out before us on the table,
and try to remember where they came
from. Here is a bit of marble, veined
black-and-white ; and here is white stone,
glistening and silvery. Here is the stalactite,
a veritable piece of * frozen tears ' and
couchant houris.

Well, we have been a little disappointed
with the grottoes of Rochefort, perhaps ;
we have not found the crystallisations quite
so purple-and-amber as we anticipated, or
the foundations quite so clean ; but, after
all, it is what we must expect in this life.
If the grotto is not so brilliant as we expected,
it is at least a very wonderful and
uncommon sight ; and so in this life, if we
can but forget the purple-and-gold, we
may extract a great deal of amusement
from very small things, if we choose to try.
With which bit of philosophy I conclude.

Or, The Amateur Detective.

AM an author. I am something
worse than that — I am a Press
writer. I am worse than that
still — I am a Press writer with a
large wife and a small family. And I aman
Amateur Detective ! I don't mean, of
course, that I reckon the last Item as part
of my profession, but my friends always
come to me If they are in any difficulty,
and set me to do all kinds of queer jobs,
from restoring and reconciling a truant
husband to his wife, to making the round
of the 'Homes for Lost Dogs' In order
to find Lady Softsawder's pet poodle.

Even Jones couldn't complete his great
work, * The Cyclopaedia of the Brain
without asking my assistance (for a consideration,
of course) with his fifth section,
The Origin of Dreams.' Jones is full of
fire and imagination, but he does not care
for plodding, and he knew me of old fora
good steady compiler. I agreed with
alacrity. * The Origin of Dreams ' would
fill those hungry little mouths of mine for
three months at the very least. But how
to do it whilst they gaped around me ! —
how to cover the one table in my solitary
sitting-room with valuable works of reference
at the risk of their being touched by greasy
fingers ! — how to wade through volume
after volume, placing a mental mark there
and a material one here, whilst my offspring
either surreptitiously removed the one or
irretrievably obliterated remembrance of
the other, by attracting my attention to
the manner in which they attempted to
scalp each other's heads or gouge out each
other's eyes ! I tried it for a week in
vain.

My Press work I had been accustomed

to do at office, but this, which was to be
based upon the contents of certain ponderous
black-lettered tomes which Jones had
been collecting for ages past, must be
carried on at home, and the noisy, wearisome
day gave me no time for reflection,
and left me without energy to labour at
night. I was about to resign the task in
despair — to tell Jones to give it to some
more capable or more fortunate labourer
in the wide field of speculation — when
Fate came to my rescue in the person
of the Hon. Captain Rivers, Lord Sea-borne's
son.

My dad's in an awful way about his
ward, young Cockleboat,' he remarked tome,
in his friendly manner, ' and he wants
your assistance, Truman, if you'll give
it him.'

Why, what's the matter. Captain
Rivers ? '

Haven't you heard ? Cockleboat's
made a fool of himself. He fell in love
with a nursemaid, or a barmaid, or some
such sort of person — he, with his twenty
thousand a-year in prospect ; and when

the governor remonstrated with him — told
him 'twas nonsense and couldn't be, and
all that sort of thing, he actually ran
away ! '

Left Lord Seaborne's house ? '

Of course, and without a word of explanation.
Now, dad doesn't want to make
the affair public, you know, unless it becomes
necessary, so he hasn't said a word
to the police ; but he wants you to find
out where Cockleboat is — you're so clever
at that sort of thing — and just bring him
home again.'

An easy task, certainly. And you don't
even know which way the lad has gone ? '

Well, we think we've traced him to
Norwich, and dad thought if you wouldn't
mind going up there for a bit, and keeping
your eyes open ; of course we should make
it worth your while, you know, you
might hear something of the young scamp
for us.'

What on earth can be his motive for
leaving home '^. '

'Well, perhaps the lady lives up that
way, or Julian may have got it into his

head that he'll work to support her. He
is but twenty last birthday, and will not
be of age, by his father's will, for the next
five years — very lucky for him, as it's
turned out, that he will not be.'

True. I think I remember seeing the
lad at Lady Godiva's last season. Didn't
he act there in some private theatricals or
charades ? '

I believe he did. Now, Truman,
what's your decision ? Will you go to
Norwich for us or not ? '

I will start tomorrow if your father
wishes it'

The offer had come most opportunely ;
even as Captain Rivers was speaking it
had flashed through my mind that here
was the very opportunity that I desired
to carry out my project of writing the
fifth section of Jones' Cyclopaedia; — a
remote lodging in one of the back streets
of the quiet old city of Norwich, whence
I could carry on my inquiries all day, and
where I might sit up and write out my
notes all night. And Lord Seaborne's
generosity in such cases was too well

known to permit of any doubt on the
subject whether I should not (by accepting
his proposal) be killing two birds with one
stone. So I did accept it, with gratitude,
and having obtained all the information
possible respecting the mysterious disappearance
of Master Julian Cockleboat,
I packed up the black-lettered tomes, and,
embracing my smiling wife and children,
who appeared rather pleased than otherwise
at the prospect of getting rid of me
for a few weeks, started for Norwich.

I have a great respect for old county
towns : there is a dignified sobriety and
sense of unimpeachable respectability about
them that impresses me. I like their old-world
institutions and buildings — their
butter crosses and market steps ; their
dingy bye streets with kerbstones for
pavements ; their portentous churches and
beadles ; their old-fashioned shops and
goods and shorten. I like the quiet
that reigns in their streets, the paucity
of gas they light them up with, the strange
conveyances their citizens ply for hire —
in fact, I like everything with which the

world in general finds fault. So it was
with a sense of pleasure I found myself
wandering about the streets of Norwich,
on the look-out for some place in which
to lay my head. I had rather have been
there than at the seaside, although it was
bright July weather, and I knew the waves
were frothing and creaming over the golden
sands beneath a canopy of cloudless blue
sky. I preferred the shaded, cloister-like
streets of the county town, with its cool
flags under my feet, and its unbroken sense
of calm.

I did not turn into the principal thoroughfares,
with their gay shops and gayer
passengers, but down the less-frequented
bye-ways, where children playing in the
road stopped open-mouthed to watch me
pass, and women's heads appeared above
the window-blinds, as my footfall sounded
on the narrow pavement, as though a
stranger were something to be stared at.
Many windows held the announcement of
Rooms to Let,' but they were too small
too modern, shall I say — too fresh-looking
to take my fancy.

I connected space and gloom with solitude
and reflection, and felt as if I could
not have sat down before a muslin-draped
window, filled with scarlet geraniums and
yellow condenses, to ponder upon * The
Origin of Dreams,' to save my life. At
last I came upon what I wanted. Down a
narrow street, into which the sun seemed
never to have penetrated, I found some
tall, irregular, dingy-looking buildings —
most of which appeared to be occupied as
insurance, wine, or law offices, — and in the
lower window of one there hung a card
with the inscription, ' Apartments for a
Single Gentleman.'

It was just the place from which to
watch and wait — in which to ponder, and
compare, and compose, — and I ascended
its broken steps, convinced that the birthplace
of ' The Origin of Dreams ' was
found. A middle-aged woman, with an
intelligent, pleasing face answered my
summons to the door. The weekly rent
she asked for the occupation of the vacant
apartments sounded to me absurdly low,
but perhaps that was due to my experience

of the exorbitant demands of London landladies.
But when I explained to her the
reason for which I desired her rooms,
namely, that I might sit up at night and
write undisturbed, her countenance visibly
fell.

I'm afraid they won't suit you, then, sir.'

Why not ? Have you any objection
to my studying by night ? '

Oh, no, sir. You could do as you
pleased about that ! '

What then ? Will your other lodgers
disturb me ? '

Her face twitched as she answered, ' I
have no other lodgers, sir.'

Do you live in this big house, then, by
yourself ? '

My husband and I have been in charge
of it for years, and are permitted to occupy
the lower floor in consideration of keeping
the upper rooms (which are only used as
offices in the day-time) clean and in order.
But the clerks are all gone by five o'clock,
so they wouldn't interfere with your night-work.'


What will, then?'

I'm afraid there are a good many rats
about the place, sir. They will breed in
these old houses, and keep up a racket at
night

Oh, I don't mind the rats," I answered,
cheerfully. '' I'll catch as many as I can
for you, and frighten away the others. If
that Is your only objection, the rooms are
mine. May I see them ? '

Certainly, sir,' she said, as she closed
the door behind me and led the way into
two lofty and spacious chambers, connected
by folding-doors, which had once
formed the dining-saloon of a splendid
mansion.

The owners of the house permit us
to occupy this floor and the basement,
and as it's more than we require, we let
these rooms to lodgers. They're not very
grandly furnished, sir, but It's all neat and
clean.'

She threw open the shutters of the
further apartment as she spoke, and the
July sun streamed into the empty room.
As its rays fell upon the unmade bed,
my eye followed them and caught sight of

a deep indentation in the mattress. The
landlady saw it also, and looked amazed.

Some one has been taking a siesta
here without your permission,' I said,
jestingly ; but she did not seem to take
my remark as a jest.

It must be my good man,' she answered,
hurriedly, as she shook the mattress
; ' perhaps he came in here to lie
down for a bit. This hot weather makes
the best feel weak, sir.'

Very true. And now, if you will
accept me as a lodger, I will pay you
my first week's rent, and whilst I go back
to the railway-station to fetch my valise,
you must get me ready a chop or a
steak, or anything that is most handy,
for my dinner.'

All appeared to be satisfactory. My
landlady assented to everything I suggested,
and in another hour I was comfortably
ensconced under her roof, had
eaten my steak, and posted a letter to my
wife, and felt very much in charity withall
mankind. So I sat at the open window
thinking how beautifully still and

sweet all my surroundings were, and how
much good work I should get through
without fear of interruption or distraction.
The office clerks had long gone home
the upper rooms were locked for the night '
only an occasional patter along the wide
uncarpeted staircase reminded me that I
was not quite alone. Then I remembered
the rats, and ' The Origin of Dreams ; '
and thinking it probable that my honest
old couple retired to bed early, rang
the bell to tell my landlady to be sure and
leave me a good supply of candles.

You're not going to sit up and write
to-night, sir, are you .-* ' she inquired.
I am sure your rest would do you more
good ; you must be real tired.'

Not at all, my good Mrs Bizzey '
(Did I say her name was Bizzey ? ), ' I amas
fresh as a daisy, and could not close
my eyes. Besides, as your friends, the
rats, seem to make so free in the house, I
should burn a light any way to warn
them they had better not come too near
me.'

Oh, I trust nothing will disturb you

sir,' she said, earnestly, as she withdrew
to fetch the candles.

I unpacked my book-box and piled the
big volumes on a side table. How imposing
they looked ! But I had no intention
of poring over them that night.
The Origin of Dreams ' required thought
deep and speculative thought ; and how
could I be better circumstanced to indulge
in it than stationed at that open window,
with a pipe in my mouth, looking up
at the dark blue sky bespangled with
stars, and listening (if I may be allowed
to speak so paradoxically) to the silence —
for there is a silence that can be heard ?

When Mrs Bizzey brought me the
candles, she asked me if I required
anything else, as she and Mr Bizzey
were about to retire to the marital couch,
which I afterwards ascertained was erected
in the scullery. I answered in the negative,
and wished her good-night, hearing
her afterwards distinctly close the door
at the head of the kitchen stairs and
descend step by step to the arms of her
lord and master. But Mrs Bizzey's in-vol.

III. M

tension had murdered my reverie. I could
not take up the chain of thought where
she had severed the Hanks. The night
air, too, seemed to have grown suddenly
damp and chilly, and I pulled down the
window sash with a jerk, and taking out
my note-book and writing-case drew a
chair up to the table and commenced to
think, playing idly with my pen the while.
Soon the divine afflatus (the symptoms
of which every successful writer knows
so well) came down upon me. I ceased to
think — or rather to be aware that I was
thinking. My pen ran over the paper
as though some other hand guided it than
my own, and I wrote rapidly, filling page
after page with a stream of ideas that
seemed to pour out of my brain involuntarily.
Time is of no account under such
circumstances, and I may have been
scribbling for one hour or for three, for
aught I knew to the contrary, before
I was roused to a sense of my position
by hearing a footfall sound through the
silent, deserted house.

Now, although I have described my

condition to be such as to render me impervious
to outer impressions, I am certain
of one thing — that no noise, however
slight, had hitherto broken in upon it.
It was the complete absence of sound
that had permitted my spirit to have full
play irrespective of my body ; and directly
the silence was outraged, my physical
life re-asserted its claims, and my senses
became all alive to ascertain the cause
of it. In another moment the sound was
repeated, and I discovered that it was
over my head — not under my feet. It
could not, then, proceed from either of
the old couple, whom I had heard lock
themselves up together down below. Who
could it be ?

My first idea, emanating from my landlady's
information that the noise might
proceed from rats, I had already dismissed
with contempt. It was the reverberation
of a footstep. There could be
no doubt about that ; and my next thought
naturally flew to burglars, who were making
an attempt on the safes in the offices
above. What could I do .^ I was utterly

unarmed, and to go in pursuit of midnight
robbers in so defenceless a condition
would be simply delivering myself into
their power. I certainly might have shied
a couple of Jones' black-lettered books at
their heads, for they were ponderous
enough to knock any man down, but I
might not take a steady aim, and it is
better not to attempt at all than to
attempt and fail.

Meanwhile, the sounds overhead had
increased in number and become continuous,
as though some one had commenced
to walk up and down the room.
Surely no midnight thief would dare to
create so much disturbance as that ! Detection
of his crime would be inevitable.
Or did he trust to the sound sleep of the
porter and his wife in the kitchen below,
not knowing that I, existent and wakeful,
intervened between himself and them ?
In another minute I believe that I should
have cast all consequences to the winds,
and rushed, not in, but up to the rescue,
forgetting I was a husband and a father,
and armed with Jones' patent self-acting

leveller, alone have ascended to the upper
story to investigate the cause of the midnight
disturbance I heard. Only — /
didn't ! For before I had had time to
shoulder my weapons and screw my courage
up to the sticking-point, another sound
reached my ears that made the patent
levellers drop on the table again with
a thump, — the sound, not of a step, buta
groan — a deep, hollow, unmistakable
groan, that chilled the marrow in my bones
to such a degree that it would have been a
disgrace to any cook to send them up to
table.

I knew then that I must have been mistaken
in my first theory, and that the
sounds I overheard, whether they proceeded
from mortals or not, had no connection
with the nefarious occupation of
housebreakers. But they had become a
thousand times more interesting, and I
listened attentively.

The groan was followed by some muttered
words that sounded like a curse,
succeeded by louder tones of reproach oranger.
Then the footsteps traversed the

floor again, and seemed to be chasing
someone or something round and round
the room. At last I heard another groan,
followed by a heavy fall.

I started to my feet. Surely Mr and
Mrs Bizzey must have been roused by such
an unusual commotion, and would come
upstairs to learn the reason ! But no ! —
they did not stir. All was silent as the
grave below, and above also. The noises
had suddenly ceased. I appeared to be
alone in the empty house. It was all so
strange that I put my hands up to my
head and asked myself if I were properly
awake. I was hardly satisfied on this
point before the sounds recommenced
overhead, and precisely in the same order
as before. Again I listened to the pacing
feet — the groan — the curse — the chase —
the fall ! Each phase of the ghostly
tragedy — for such I now felt sure it must
be — was repeated in rotation, not once,
but a couple of dozen or more times ; and
then at last the disturbance ceased as suddenly
and as unexpectedly as it had
commenced.

I looked at my watch. It was three
o'clock, and already the early birds on the
look-out for the worm had begun to herald
the dawn with a few faint twitters in the
trees in the cloister. I threw off my
clothes impatiently, and lying down in my
bed, gave myself up, not to sleep, but
reflection on what was best to be done. I
had not the slightest doubt left as to the
cause of the noises I had heard. My
landlady might ascribe them to rats, but
were she closely questioned she would
probably acknowledge the truth — that she
knew the sounds to proceed from spirits,
popularly called ghosts ; which accounted
for all her hesitation and change of countenance
when speaking to me about the
apartments, also for the low price she
asked for her rooms, and her evident wish
to dissuade me from sitting up at night.

Naturally the poor woman was afraid
she should never secure a lodger if the
truth were known ; but as far as I was
concerned, she was altogether mistaken —
I was not afraid of her ghosts. On the
contrary, as I lay in bed and thought en

what had just occurred, I congratulated
myself that, by a third strange coincidence,
my visit to Norwich promised to turn out
all that I could desire.

I must ' lay ' these ghosts, of course —
i.e,, if they interfered with my graver work ;
but to have the opportunity of doing so
was the very thing my heart was set upon.
Is my reader surprised to hear this ?
Then I must take him further into my
confidence.

When I confessed I was an author,
Press writer, amateur detective, and father
of six children, I did not add the crowning
iniquity, and write myself down a believer
in ghosts and spiritualism. Every man
acknowledges himself a spirit, and to have
been created by the power of a spirit. Most
men believe that spirits have the capability
of free volition and locomotion, and many
that they have exercised these powers by
re-appearing to their fellow spirits in the
flesh. But to assert publicly that you believe
in all this because you have proved it
to be the truth, is to throw yourself open
to the charge of being a dupe, or a madman,

or a liar. Therefore I had preferred
until then to keep my faith a secret. My
children's bread depended in a great
measure on the reputation I kept up asa
man of sense, and I had not dared to
risk it by attempting to put my theories
into practice. Not that I was entirely
ignorant of the rules pertaining to the
science of spiritualism. Under cover of
the darkness that hides all delinquencies,
I had attended several circles gathered for
the sole purpose of investigating the mysteries
of other worlds ; but it had always
been accomplished with the utmost secrecy,
as my wife was hysterically disposed, and
the mere mention of a spirit would have
upset the house for days together.

I had never, therefore, had the opportunity
of pursuing spiritualism on my own
account ; and until the day broke I lay
awake, congratulating myself on the good
luck that had thrown me, cheek by jowl,
with a party of ready-made ghosts, whom
a very little encouragement would, I
trusted, induce to pay me a visit in my
own apartments.

All the next day I wandered through
the streets of Norwich and in the country
surrounding them, speculating — not on the
whereabouts of Julian Cockleboat, nor
The Origin of Dreams ' — but how I
should persuade my landlady to help me
unravel the mysterious occurrence of the
night before. At last I bethought me
that ' honesty is the best policy ' after all,
and decided that I would make a clean
breast of my suspicions and desires. If
Mrs Bizzey were a sensible woman, she
would prove only too ready to aid me in
ridding her apartments of visitors that
must injure their reputation ; and, at
all events, I could but try her. So I
opened the subject on the very first
opportunity. The woman was clearing
away my tea-things the same evening,
when she remarked that I had not eaten
well.

I am afraid you sit up too much at
night, sir, to make a good appetite.'

Other people seem to sit up in this
house at night as well as myself, Mrs
Bizzey,' I replied, significantly.

I don't understand you,' she said,
colouring.

Why, do you mean to say you never
hear noises ; — that you were not disturbed
last night, for instance, by the sound of
groans and voices, and of some one falling
about in the upper rooms ? '

Oh, sir, you don't mean to tell me as
you've heard them already ! ' exclaimed
Mrs Bizzey, clasping her hands and letting
a teacup fall in her agitation. ' If you go
too, you'll be the third gentleman that has
left within a fortnight on that account ;
and if a stop ain't put to it, the house will
get such a name that nobody will put a
foot inside the door for love or money.'

But I don't mean to go, Mrs Bizzey ;
on the contrary, I should be very sorry to
go ; and if you and your husband will consent
to help me, I will do my best to stop
the noises altogether,' for the idea of forming
a little circle with these worthy people
had suddenly flashed into my mind.

How can me and my good man help
you, sir ?'

'Is Mr Bizzey at home ? If so, go

downstairs and fetch him up here, and I
will explain what I mean to you both at
the same time.'

She left the room at once, and in a few
minutes returned with a dapper-looking
little old fellow, in knee-breeches and a red
plush waistcoat, who pulled his forelock tome
on entering.

This is Mr Bizzey, sir, and I've been
telling him all you say as we came up the
stairs.'

I leant back in my chair, folded my
hands, and looked important.

I suppose you must have heard the
science of spiritualism mentioned ? ' I commenced,
grandly.

The science of ivhat, sir 1 ' inquired Mr
Bizzey, with a puzzled air.

Of spiritualism — i.e., the power of converse
or communication with disembodied
spirits.'

Lor' ! you never mean '' ghosts'' sir V
said the old woman.

I do, indeed, Mrs Bizzey. I suppose
you believe that spirits (or ghosts, as you
call them) may re-appear after death 1 '

Oh, yes,' interposed the husband ; ' for
I mind the night that my poor mother lay
dying, there was an apparition of a turkey-cock
that sat upon the pangs opposite our
cottage, and when it fluttered off 'em with
a screech, just for all the world like a real
turkey, you know, sir, she turned on her
side suddenly, and give up the ghost. I've
always believed in apparitions since then.'

And when my sister Jane lay in of her
last,' chimed in Mrs Bizzey, ' there was a
little clock stood on the mantel-shelf that
had always been wound up regular and
gone regular ever since she was married :
and we was moving a lot of things to one
side, and we moved that clock and found
it had stopped ; and the nurse, she said tome,
*' Mark my words if that's not a warning
of death ; " and, sure enough, Jane
died before the morning, which makes me
so careful of moving a clock since then
that I'd rather go three miles round than
touch one if a body lay sick in the house.'

I see that you both take a most sensible
view of the business, and are fully alive to
the importance attached to it, I answered ;

I hope, therefore, to secure your assistance
to find out what these unusual and
mysterious noises in your house portend,
and what the authors require us to do for
them.'

Then — whilst the old man scratched his
head with bewilderment, and the old woman
looked scared out of her seven senses — I
explained to them, as well as I was able,
the nature of a seance, and asked them if
they would come and sit at the table with
me that evening and hold one.

But, hawk a mussy, sir, you never want
to speak to them ! ' cried Mrs Bizzey.

How else are we to ascertain for what
reason these spirits disturb your lodgers
and render your rooms uninhabitable by
their pranks ? '

I should die of fright before we had
been at it five minutes,' was her comment ;
but her husband was pluckier, and took a
more practical view of the matter.

You'll just do as I bid you, missus, and
hold your chatter. There's no doubt these
noises are a great nuisance — not to say a
loss — and if this gentleman will be good

enough to try and stop them, and can't do
without us, I'll help him for one, and you
will for another.'

Mrs Bizzey protested, and wept, and was
even refractory, but it was all of no avail,
and before we separated it had been agreed
we should meet again at ten o'clock, and
hold a seance. There was some whispering
between the old couple after that that
I did not quite understand, but as it ended
by Mrs Bizzey ejaculating, ' Nonsense ; 1
tell you the house will be quiet enough by
ten o'clock,' I concluded he was referring
to some expected visitor, and dismissed
the subject from my mind. As soon as
they had disappeared I delivered myself
up to self-gratulation. I was really going
to hold a seance, under my own direction
and the most favourable circumstances,
with a large haunted house at my command,
and no one to be any the wiser for
my dabbling in the necromantic art. 1
took out an old number of the * Spiritualist,'
and referred to the directions for forming
circles at home. I prepared the
paper, pencils, and speaking tubes, and

■i>

symmetrically arranged the table and
chairs.

Nothing was wanted when Mr and Mrs
Bizzey entered my room at the appointed
hour — he looking expectant, and she very
much alarmed. I was prepared for this,
however, and insisted upon their both
joining me in a glass of whisky and hot
water before commencing the sitting, alleging
as a reason the fact that the presence
of spirits invariably chills the atmosphere,
whether in summer or winter. So I mixed
three bumping tumblers of toddy, strong
enough to give us the courage we required
for the occasion ; and after we had (according
to the directions) engaged for some
little time in light and friendly conversation,
I induced my friends to approach
the table.

It was now, I was glad to see by my
watch, about half-past eleven — just about
the time when the mysterious sounds had
commenced the night before ; and having
lowered the lamp, much to Mrs Bizzey's
horror, until it was represented by a mere
glimmer of light, I instructed her husband

and herself how to place their hands upon
the table, linked with mine, and the seance
began.

I had enjoined perfect silence on my
companions, and after we had been sitting
still for about fifteen minutes, during which
I had watched in vain for some symptoms
of movement on the part of the table, we
all heard distinctly the sound of a foot
creeping cautiously about the upper rooms,
upon which Mrs Bizzey, too frightened to
shriek, began to weep, and her husband,
in order to stop her, pinched her violently
in the dark.

Hush !' I exclaimed, almost as agitated
as the woman. ' Do not disturb them for
your life, and whatever you may see, don't
scream.'

La, sir, you never mean to say that
they'll come downstairs ? '

I cannot say what they may do. I
think I hear a step descending now. But
remember, Mrs Bizzey, they will not hurt
you, and try and be brave for all our
sakes.'

We were in a state of high nervous ex-vol.
in. N

excitement for the next five minutes, during
which the same noises I had heard the
night before were repeated overhead, only
that the curses were louder and delivered
with more determination, and the falls
appeared to succeed each other like hail.

Oh, sir, what are they a-doing ? ' exclaimed
Mrs Bizzey, paralysed with terror.
They must be killing each other all
round.'

Hush !' I replied. * Listen, now. Someone
is pleading for love or for mercy. How
soft and clear the voice is ! '

It sounds for all the world like my poor
sister Jane when she was asking her husband
to forgive her for everything she had
done amiss,' said the old woman.

Perhaps it is your sister Jane, or some
of your relations,' I replied. * She may
want you to do something for her. Would
you be afraid If she were suddenly to open
the door and come Into the room ? '

Oh, I don't know, I'm sure, sir ; but I
hope she mayn't. It makes me curdle allover
only to think of it.'

They're quieter now. Let us ask if

there is any one present who wishes to
speak to us,' I said ; and addressing the
table to that effect, I commenced to spell
out the alphabet rather loudly — ' A, B, C,'
etc.

Whether from my nervousness, or the
united strain we laid upon it, I know not,
but the table certainly began to rock at
that juncture, though I could make neither
head nor tail of its intentions. Treating
it in the orthodox manner by which Britons
invariably attempt to communicate with a
foreigner who does not understand one
word of the language spoken, I began
to bawl at the table, and my A, B, C
must have reverberated through the empty
house.

Again the old woman whispered mysteriously
to the old man, but he dismissed her
question with an impatient answer ; and
my attention was too much attracted in
another direction at that moment to give
much heed of what they were doing. My
ear had caught the sound of a descending
footstep, and I felt sure the spirits were at
last about to visit us in propria persons.

But dreading the effect it might have on
Mrs Bizzey's nerves, I purposely held my
tongue, and applied myself afresh to a
vigorous repetition of the alphabet, striving
to cover the approaching footstep by the
noise of my own voice, although I was
trembling with excitement and delight at
the successful issue of my undertaking.
At last I plainly heard the footstep pause
outside the door, as though deliberating
before it opened it. The old man was
apparently too deaf or too absorbed to
notice it, and his wife was in a state of
helpless fright. I alone sufficiently retained
my senses to see the door slowly
open, and a white-robed figure — a real,
materialised spirit — stand upon the threshold.
The gesture of delight, which I
could not repress, roused my companions
from their reverie ; and as soon as Mrs
Bizzey turned and saw the figure, she
recognised it.

'It's Jane!' she screamed. * It's my
own poor sister Jane come back from the
grave to visit me again, with her red hair
and blue eyes ; I can see 'em as plain as

plain. I'll die of the shock, I know I
shall ! '

Nonsense ! ' I exclaimed, sternly, fearful,
lest by her folly she should scare the newly-born
spirit back to the spheres. 'If it is
your sister, speak to her as you used to do.
Tell her you are glad to see her, and ask
if she wants anything done.'

Oh, Jane ! ' said the old woman, half
falling upon her knees, 'don't come a-
nigher me, for mercy's sake ! I never kept
nothing of your back from the children
except the old blue dress, which it wouldn't
have been no use for them to wear, and the
ring, which I had asked you to give me a
dozen times in your life, and you had
always refused. I'd give 'em both back
now if I could, Jane, but the gown have
been on the dust-heap these twenty years
past, and the ring I sold the minute my
man was laid up with rheumatism. Forgive
me, Jane, forgive me ! '

Wky^ what on earth are you making
such a row about?' replied the spirit.
I leapt to my feet in a moment.

This is some shameful hoax ! ' I exclaimed.

' Who are you, and what do you
do here ? '

I should think I might put the same
question to you, since I find you sitting in
the dark, at dead of night, with my landlord
and landlady

Lor', Mr Montmorency, it's never you,
sir ! ' ejaculated old Bizzey, with a feeble

The voice seemed familiar to me. Who
on earth was this Mr Montmorency, who
had intruded upon our seance at the most
important juncture ? I turned up the lamp
and threw its light full upon his features.
Good heavens ! ' I exclaimed, ' it's Julian
Cockleboat.'

The young man was equally astonished
with myself.

Did Lord Seaborne send you after me ? '
he said, guessing the truth at once. ' And
how did you find out I was lodging here ? *

Aha, my boy ! ' I replied, unwilling to
deny the kudos with which he credited me,
that's my secret. Do you suppose I have
Grained the name of the amateur detective
among my friends for nothing } No, no !

I am in Norwich expressly for the purpose
of restoring you to your guardian, and as I
knew that to show my hand more openly
would be to scare you off to another hiding
place, I devised this little plan for making
you reveal yourself in your true character.'

Did Robson tell you, then, that I had
taken an engagement at the theatre here ? '

Never you mind, Mr Cockleboat ; it is
quite sufficient that I knew it. This is a
proper sort of house to play hide-and-seek
in, isn't it ? '

I was dispersing the table and chairs
again with angry jerks as I spoke, fearful
lest my attempted investigation of the
occult mysteries should be discovered before
I had removed its traces.

Still I can't understand how you discovered
that Mr montmorency was myself,
although naturally my night rehearsals
must have disturbed you. But you told
me you had no other lodgers,' continued
Julian Cockleboat reproachfully, to the
Bizzeys.

And you said the same thing to me,' I
added, in similar tones.

'Well, sir — well, Mr Montmorency, I'm
very sorry it should have happened so,'
replied the landlord, turning from one to
the other, ' but it's all my old woman's
fault, for I said to her — '

You did nothing of the sort,' interrupted
his better half ; * for when I come to you
and told you as a second gentleman wanted
rooms here, it was you as said, " Let him
have the little room upstairs, and no one
will be ever the wiser if he takes his meals
out of a day." '

But we never thought — begging your
pardon, Mr Montmorency — as you'd take
such a liberty with the upper offices as to
make noises in them as should disturb the
whole house.'

Well, what was I to do ? ' replied the
young man, appealing to me. ' They've
given me three leading parts to get up at a
fortnight's notice, and if I don't study them
at night I have no chance of being ready
in time.'

In fact,' I said, oracularly, * you've been
cheating each other all round. Mr Bizzey
has cheated his employers by letting apartments

to which he has no right ; you have
cheated the Bizzeys by using one which
you never hired of them ; and I have — '
cheated myself,' I might have added, but
I stopped short and looked wise instead.

And it was never no ghosts after all ! '
said Mrs Bizzey, in accents of disappointment,
as her husband marched her downstairs.


There is nothing more to tell. I reconciled
Mr Julian Cockleboat to his guardian
and his destiny ; and I wrote ' The Origin
of Dreams,' the best part, by the way (as
all the critics affirmed), of ' The Cyclopaedia
of the Brain.' I made more money by my
little trip than six months of ordinary labour
would have brought me ; and Lord Sea-borne
speaks of me to this day, amongst
his acquaintances, as the * very cleverest
amateur detective he has ever known.'

And so I am.

THE END.

R SIGISMUND Braggart
was sitting in the little room he
called his study, wrapped in a
profound — not to say a mournful
— reverie. Now, there was nothing in
the present life nor surroundings of Mr
Braggett to account for such a demonstration.
He was a publisher and bookseller ;
a man well to do, with a thriving business
in the city, and the prettiest of all pretty
villas at Streatham. And he was only just
turned forty ; had not a grey hair in his
head nor a false tooth in his mouth ; and

had been married but three short months
to one of the fairest and most affectionate
specimens of English womanhood that
ever transformed a bachelor's quarters
into Paradise.

What more could Mr Sigismund Brag-get
possibly want? Nothing! His
trouble lay in the fact that he had got
rather more than he wanted. Most of us
have our little peccadilloes in this world —
awkward reminiscences that we would like
to bury five fathoms deep, and never hear
mentioned again, but that have an uncomfortable
habit of cropping up at the most
inconvenient moments ; and no mortal is
more likely to be troubled with them thana
middle-aged bachelor who has taken to
matrimony.

Mr Sigismund Braggett had no idea
what he was going in for when he led the
blushing Emily Primrose up to the altar,
and swore to be hers, and hers only, until
death should them part. He had no conception
a woman's curiosity could be so
keen, her tongue so long, and her inventive
faculties so correct. He had spent

whole days before the fatal moment of
marriage in burning letters, erasing initials,
destroying locks of hair, and making offerings
of affection look as if he had purchased
them with his own money. But it had
been of little avail. Mrs Braggett had
swooped down upon him like a beautiful
bird of prey, and wheedled, coaxed, or
kissed him out of half his secrets before he
knew what he was about. But he had
never told her about Charlotte Cray. And
now he almost wished that he had done so,
for Charlotte Cray was the cause of his
present dejected mood.

Now, there are ladies a7td ladies in this
world. Some are very shy, and will only
permit themselves to be wooed by stealth.
Others, again, are the pursuers rather than
the pursued, and chase the wounded or the
flying even to the very doors of their
stronghold, or lie in wait for them like an
octopus, stretching out their tentacles on
every side in search of victims.

And to the latter class Miss Charlotte
Cray decidedly belonged. Not a person
worth mourning over, you will naturally

say. But, then, Mr SIgismund Braggett
had not behaved well to her. She was
one of the * peccadilloes.' She was an
authoress — not an author, mind you, which
term smacks more of the profession than the
sex — but an 'authoress with lots of the
'ladylike' about the plots of her stories and
the metre of her rhymes. They had come
together in the sweet connection of publisher
and writer — had met first in a dingy,
dusty little office at the back of his house
of business, and laid the foundation of
their friendship with the average amount
of chaffering and prevarication that usually
attend such proceedings.

Mr Braggett ran a risk in publishing
Miss Cray's tales or verses, but he found
her useful in so many other ways that he
used occasionally to hold forth a sop to
Cerberus in the shape of publicity for the
sake of keeping her in his employ. For
Miss Charlotte Cray — who was as old
as himself, and had arrived at the period of
life when women are said to pray ' Any,
good Lord, any ! ' — was really a clever
woman, and could turn her hand to most

things required of her, or upon which she
had set her mind ; and she had most decidedly
set her mind upon marrying Mr
Braggett, and he — to serve his own purposes
— had permitted her to cherish the
idea, and this was the Nemesis that was
weighing him down in the study at the
present moment. He had complimented
Miss Cray, and given her presents, and
taken her out a-pleasuring, all because she
was useful to him, and did odd jobs that
no one else would undertake, and for less
than any one else would have accepted ;
and he had known the while that she was
in love with him, and that she believed he
was in love with her.

He had not thought much of it at the
time. He had not then made up his mind
to marry Emily Primrose, and considered
that what pleased Miss Cray, and harmed
no one else, was fair play for all sides.
But he had come to see things differently
now. He had been married three months,
and the first two weeks had been very
bitter ones to him. Miss Cray had written
him torrents of reproaches during that

unhappy period, besides calling day after
day at his office to deliver them in person.
This and her threats had frightened him
out of his life. He had lived in hourly
terror lest the clerks should overhear what
passed at their interviews, or that his wife
should be made acquainted with them.

He had implored Miss Cray, both byword
of mouth and letter, to cease her
persecution of him ; but all the^reply he
received was that he was a base and perjured
man, and that she should continue to
call at his office, and write to him through
the penny post, until he had introduced
her to his wife. For therein lay the height
and depth of his offending. He had been
afraid to bring Emily and Miss Cray together,
and the latter resented the omission
as an Insult. It was bad enough to find
that SIgismund Braggett, whose hair she
wore next her heart, and whose photograph
stood as in a shrine upon her bedroom
mantelpiece, had married another woman,
without giving her even the chance of a
refusal, but it was worse still to come to
the conclusion that he did not intend her

to have a glimpse Into the garden of Eden
he had created for hlmseU'.

Miss Cray was a lady of vivid Imagination
and strong aspirations. All was not
lost in her ideas, although Mr Brao-aett
had proved false to the hopes he had
raised. Wives did not live for ever ; and
the chances and clamor-es of this life were
so numerous, that stranger things had
happened than that Mr Braggett might
think fit to make better use of the second
opportunity afforded him than he had done
of the first. But if she were not to continue
even his friend, it was too hard. But
the perjured publisher had continued resolute,
notwithstanding all Miss Cray's persecution,
and now he had neither seen nor
heard from her for a month ; and, manlike,
he was beginning to wonder what had
become of her, and whether she had found
anybody to console her for his untruth.
Mr Braggett did not wish to comfort Miss
Cray himself; but he did not quite like the
notion of her beincr comforted.

After all — so he soliloquised — he had
been very cruel to her ; for the poor thing

VOL. III. o

was devoted to him. How her eyes used
to sparkle and her cheek to flush when she
entered his office, and how eagerly she
would undertake any work for him, however
disagreeable to perform ! He knew
well that she had expected to be Mrs
Braggett, and it must have been a terrible
disappointment to her when he married
Emily Primrose.

Why had he not asked her out to Violet
Villa since ? What harm could she do asa
visitor there ? particularly if he cautioned
her first as to the peculiarity of Mrs Brag-get's
disposition, and the quickness with
which her jealousy was excited. It was
close upon Christmas-time, the period when
all old friends meet together and patch
up, if they cannot entirely forget, everything
that has annoyed them in the past.
Mr Braggett pictured to himself the poor
old maid sitting solitary in her small rooms
at Hammersmith, no longer able to live in
the expectation of seeing his manly format
the wicket-gate, about to enter and
cheer her solitude. The thought smote
him as a two-edged sword, and he sat

down at once and penned Miss Charlotte
a note, in which he inquired after her
health, and hoped that they should soon
see her at Violet Villa.

He felt much better after this note was
written and despatched. He came out of
the little study and entered the cheerful
drawing-room, and sat with his pretty wife
by the light of the fire, telling her of the
lonely lady to whom he had just proposed
to introduce her.

An old friend of mine, Emily. A
clever, agreeable woman, though rather
eccentric. You will be polite to her, I
know, for my sake.'

'An old woman, is she?' said Mrs
Braggett, elevating her eyebrows. ' And
what do you call ' old'" Siggy, I should
like to know ? '

Twice as old as yourself, my dear —
five-and-forty at the very least, and not
personable-looking, even for that age. Yet
I think you will find her a pleasant companion,
and I am sure she well be enchanted
with you.'

I don't know that : clever women donec

like me. as a rule, though I don't know
why.'

They are jealous of your beauty, my
darling ; but Miss Cray is above such
meanness, and will value you for your own
sake.'

She'd better not let me catch her
valuing me for yours', responded Mrs
Braggett, with a flash of the eye that made
her husband ready to regret the dangerous
experiment he was about to make of
brlnofinof together two women who had
each, in her own way, a claim upon him,
and each the will to maintain it.

So he dropped the subject of Miss
Charlotte Cray, and took to admiring his
wife's complexion instead, so that the
evening passed harmoniously, and both
parties were satisfied.

For two days Mr Braggett received no
answer from Miss Cray, which rather
surprised him. He had quite expected
that on the reception of his invitation she
would rush down to his office and into his
arms, behind the shelter of the groundless
door that enclosed his chair of

authority. For Miss Charlotte had been
used on occasions to indulge in rapturous
demonstrations of the sort, and the remembrance
of Mrs Braggett located in violet
Villa would have been no obstacle whatever
to her. She believed she had a prior
claim to Mr Braggett. However, nothing
of the kind happened, and the perjured
publisher was becoming strongly imbued
with the idea that he must go out to Hammersmith
and see if he could not make his
peace with her in person, particularly as he
had several odd jobs for Christmas-tide,
which no one could undertake so well as
herself, when a letter with a black-edged
border was put into his hand. He opened
it mechanically, not knowing the writing ;
but its contents shocked him beyond
measure.

Honoured Sir, — I am sorry to tell
you that Miss Cray died at my house a
week ago, and was buried yesterday. She
spoke of you several times during her last
illness, and if you would like to hear any
further particulars, and will call on me at

the old address, I shall be most happy to
furnish you with them. — Yours respectfully,
Mary Thompson.'

When Mr Braggett read this news, you
might have knocked him over with a feather.
It is not always true that a living dog is
better than a dead Hon. Some people gain
considerably in the estimation of their
friends by leaving this world, and Miss
Charlotte Cray was one of them. Her
persecution had ceased for ever, and her
amiable weaknesses were alone held In remembrance.
Mr Braggett felt a positive
relief in the knowledge that his dead friend
and his wife would never now be brought
in contact with each other ; but at the
same time he blamed himself more than
was needful, perhaps, for not having seen
nor communicated with Miss Cray for so
long before her death. He came down to
breakfast with a portentously grave face
that morning, and Imparted the sad intelligence
to Mrs Bra^ro^ett with the air of an
undertaker. Emily wondered, pitied, and
sympathised, but the dead lady was no

more to her than any other stranger ; and
she was surprised her husband looked so
solemn over it all. Vir Braofsrett, however,
could not dismiss the subject easily from
his mind. It haunted him during the business
hours of the morning, and as soon ashe
could conveniently leave his office, he
posted away to Hammersmith. The little
house in which Miss Cray used to live
looked just the same, both inside and outside
: how strange it seemed that she should
have flown away from it for ever ! And
here was her landlady, Mrs Thompson,
bobbing and curtseying to him in the same
old black net cap with artificial flowers in
it, and the same stuff gown she had worn
since he first saw her, with her apron in
her hand, it is true, ready to go to her
eyes as soon as a reasonable opportunity
occurred, but otherwise the same Mrs
Thompson as before. And yet she would
never wait upon her again.

It was all so sudden, sir,' she said, in
answer to Mr Braggett's inquiries, * that
there was no time to send for nobody.'

But Miss Cray had my address.'

Ah ! perhaps so ; but she was off her
head, poor dear, and couldn't think of
nothing. But she remembered you, sir, to
the last ; for the very morning she died,
she sprung up in bed and called out, ' Sigismund
! Sigismund ! ' as loud as ever she
could, and she never spoke to anybody
afterwards, not one word.'

She left no message for me ? '

None, sir. I asked her the day before
she went if I was to say nothing to you for
her (knowing you was such friends), and
all her answer was, " I wrote to him. He's
got my letter." So I thought, perhaps,
you had heard, sir.'

Not for some time past. It seems
terribly sudden to me, not having
heard even of her illness. Where is
she buried '^. '

Close by in the churchyard, sir. My
little girl will go with you and show you
the place, if you'd like to see it.'

Mr Braggett accepted her offer and left.

When he was standing by a heap of

clods they called a grave, and had dismissed

the child, he drew out Miss Cray's last

letter, which he carried in his pocket, and
read it over.

You tell me that I am not to call at
your office again, except on business' (soit
ran), ' nor to send letters to your private
address, lest it should come to the knowledge
of your wife, and create unpleasantness
between you ; but I shall call, and I
shall v^nl^, until I have seen Mrs Braggett,
and, if you don't take care, I will introduce
myself to her and tell her the reason you
have been afraid to do so.'

This letter had made Mr Braggett terribly
angry at the time of reception. He
had puffed and fumed, and cursed Miss
Charlotte by all his gods for daring to
threaten him. But he read it with different
feelings now Miss Charlotte was down
there, six feet beneath the ground he stood
on, and he could feel only compassion for
her frenzy, and resentment against himself
for having excited it. As he travelled
home from Hammersmith to Streatham, he
was a very dejected publisher indeed.

He did not tell Mrs Brao^orett the reason
of his melancholy, but it affected him to

that degree that he could not go to office
on the following day, but stayed at home
instead, to be petted and waited upon by
his pretty wife, which treatment resulted
in a complete cure. The next morning,
therefore, he started for London as briskly
as ever, and arrived at office before his
usual time. A clerk, deputed to receive
all messages for his master, followed him
behind the ground-glass doors, with a packet
of letters.

Mr Van Over was here yesterday, sir.
He will let you have the copy before the
end of the week, and Messrs Valleys'
foreman called on particular business, and
will look in to-day at eleven. And Mr
Ellis came to ask if there was any answer
to his letter yet; and Miss Cray called,
sir ; and that's all.'

Who did you say ? ' cried Braggett.

Miss Cray, sir. She waited for you
above an hour, but I told her I thought
you couldn't mean to come into town at
all, so she went.'

*Do you know what you're talking about,
Hewetson ? You said Miss Cray ! '

'And I meant it, sir — Miss Charlotte
Cray. Burns spoke to her as well as 1/

Good heavens ! ' exclaimed Mr Brag-get,
turning as white as a sheet. ' Go at
once and send Burns to me.' Burns came.

Burns, who was the lady that called to
see me yesterday .^ '

Miss Cray,, sir. She had a very thick
veil on, and she looked so pale that I asked
her if she had been ill, and she said " Yes."
She sat in the office for over an hour,
hoping you'd come in, but as you didn't,
she went away again.'

Did she lift her veil ? '

Not whilst I spoke to her, sir.'

How do you know it was Miss Cray,

then ? '

The clerk stared. ' Well, sir, we all

know her pretty well by this time.'
Did you ask her name '^ '

No, sir ; there was no need to do it.'

You're mistaken, that's all, both you
and Hewetson. It couldn't have been
Miss Cray ! I know for certain that she
is — is — is — not in London at present. It
must have been a stranger.'

It was not, indeed, sir, begging your
pardon. I could tell Miss Cray anywhere,
by her figure and her voice, without seeing
her face. But I did see her face, and remarked
how awfully pale she was — just
like death, sir ! '

'There! there! that will do! It's of
no consequence, and you can go back to
your work.'

But any one who had seen Mr Braggett,
when left alone in his office, would not
have said he thought the matter of no
consequence. The perspiration broke out
upon his forehead, although it was December,
and he rocked himself backward and
forward in his chair with agitation.

At last he rose hurriedly, upset his throne,
and dashed through the outer premises in
the face of twenty people waiting to speak
to him. As soon as he could find his voice,
he hailed a hansom, and drove to Hammersmith.
Good Mrs Thompson opening the
door to him, thought he looked as if he had
just come out of a fever.

Lor' bless me, sir ! whatever's the
matter ? '

Mrs Thompson, have you told me the
truth about Miss Cray ? Is she really
dead ? '

Really dead, sir ! Why, I closed her
eyes, and put her in the coffin with my own
hands! If she ain't dead, I don't know
who is ! But if you doubt my word, you'd
better ask the doctor that gave the certificate
for her.'

What is the doctor's name ? '

Dodson ; he lives opposite.'

You must forgive my strange questions,
Mrs Thompson, but I have had a terrible
dream about my poor friend, and I think
I should like to talk to the doctor about
her.'

Oh, very good, sir,' cried the landlady,
much offended. ' I'm not afraid of what
the doctor will tell you. She had excellent
nursing and everything as she could desire,
and there's nothing on my conscience
on that score, so I'll wish you good morning.'
And with that Mrs Thompson
slammed the door in Mr Braggett's face.

He found Dr Dodson at home.

If I understand you rightly,' said the

practitioner, looking rather steadfastly in
the scared face of his visitor, ' you wish,
as a friend of the late Miss Cray's, to see
a copy of the certificate of her death ?
Very good, sir ; here it is. She died, as
you will perceive, on the twenty-fifth of
November, of peritonitis. She had, I can
assure you, every attention and care, but
nothing could have saved her.'

You are quite sure, then, she Is dead }
demanded Mr Braggett, in a vague manner.

The doctor looked at him as if he were
not quite sure If he were sane.

If seeing a patient die, and her corpse
coffined and buried, is being sure she is
dead, / am in no doubt whatever about
Miss Cray.'

It is very strange — most strange and
unaccountable,' murmured poor Mr Brag-get,
in reply, as he shifted out of the
doctor's passage, and took his way back
to the office.

Here, however, after an interval of rest
and a strong brandy and soda, he managed
to pull himself together, and to come to
the conclusion that the doctor and Mrs

Thompson could not be mistaken, and
that, consequently, the clerks must. He
did not mention the subject again to them,
however ; and as the days went on, and
nothing more was heard of the mysterious
stranger's visit, Mr Braggett put it altogether
out of his mind.

Kx, the end of a fortnight, however,
when he was thinking of something totally
different, young Hewetson remarked to
him, carelessly, —

IVIiss Cray was here again yesterday,
sir. She walked in just as your cab had
left the door.'

All the horror of his first suspicions returned
with double force upon the unhappy
man's mind.

Don't talk nonsense ! ' he gasped,
angrily, as soon as he could speak. * Don't
attempt to play any of your tricks on me,
young man, or it will be the worse for )ou,
I can tell you.'

Tricks, sir ! ' stammered the clerk. ' I
don't know what you are alluding to. I
am only telling you the truth. You have
always desired me to be most particular

In letting you know the names of the
people who call in your absence, and I
thought I was only doing my duty in
making a point of ascertaining them — '

Yes, yes ! Hewetson, of course,' replied
Mr Braggett, passing his handkerchief
over his brow, ' and you are quite
right in following my directions as closely
as possible; only — in this case you are
completely mistaken, and it is the second
time you have committed the error.'

Mistaken ! '

Yes ! — as mistaken as it is possible fora
man to be! Miss Cray could XiOX.\i2,\^
called at this office yesterday

But she did, sir.'

Am I labouring under some horrible
nightmare ? ' exclaimed the publisher, * or
are we playing at cross purposes ? Can
you mean the Miss Cray I mean ?'

I am speaking of Miss Charlotte Cray,
sir, the author of *' Sweet Gwendolen," —
the lady who has undertaken so much of
our compilation the last two years, and
who has a long nose, and wears her hair
in curls. I never knew there was another

Miss Cray ; but if there are two, that is
the one I mean

Still I cannot believe it, Hewetson, for
the Miss Cray who has been associated
with our firm died on the twenty-fifth of
last month

Died, sir ! Is Miss Cray dead ? Oh,
it can't be ! It's some humbuororinor trick
that's been played upon you, for I'd swear
she was in this room yesterday afternoon,
as full of life as she's ever been since I
knew her. She didn't talk much, it's true,
for she seemed in a hurry to be off again,
but she had got on the same dress and
bonnet she was in here last, and she made
herself as much at home in the office as
she ever did. Besides continued Hewett
as though suddenly remembering
something, ' she left a note for you, sir.'

A note ! Why did you not say so
before ? '

It slipped my memory when you began
to doubt my word in that way, sir. But
you'll find it in the bronze vase. She told
me to tell you she had placed it there.'

Mr Braggett made a dash at the vase,

VOL. III. p

and found the three-cornered note as he
had been told. Yes ! it was Charlotte's
handwriting, or the facsimile of it, there
was no doubt of that ; and his hands shook
so he could hardly open the paper. It
contained these words :

You tell me that I am not to call at
your office again, except on business, nor
to send letters to your private address, lest
it should come to the knowledge of your
wife, and create unpleasantness between
you ; but I shall call, and I shall write until
I have seen Mrs Braggett, and if you don't
take care I will introduce myself to her,
and tell her the reason you have been
afraid to do so.'

Precisely the same words, in the same
writing of the letter he still carried in his
breast-pocket, and which no mortal eyes
but his and hers had ever seen. As the
unhappy man sat gazing at the opened
note, his whole body shook as if he were
attacked by ague.

'It is Miss Cray's handwriting, isn't it,
sir V

It looks like it, Hewetson, but it cannot

be. I tell you it is an impossibility !
Miss Cray died last month, and I have
seen not only her grave, but the doctor
and nurse who attended her in her last
illness. It is folly, then, to suppose either
that she called here or wrote that letter.'

Then who could it have been, sir ? ' said
Hewetson, attacked with a sudden terror
In his turn.

That is impossible for me to say ; but
should the lady call again, you had better
ask her boldly for her name and address.'

I'd rather you'd depute the office to
anybody but me, sir,' replied the clerk, ashe
hastily backed out of the room.

Mr Braggett, dying with suspense and
conjecture, went through his business as
best he could, and hurried home to Violet
Villa.

There he found that his wife had been
spending the day with a friend, and only
entered the house a few minutes before
himself.

Siggy, dear ! ' she commenced, as soon
as he joined her in the drawing-room after
dinner ; ' I really think we should have the

fastenings and bolts of this house looked
to. Such a funny thing happened whilst
I was out this afternoon. Ellen has just
been telling me about it.'

What sort of a thing, dear ? '
Well, I left home as early as twelve,
you know, and told the servants I shouldn't
be back until dinner-time ; so they were
all enjoying themselves in the kitchen, I
suppose, when cook told Ellen she heard
a footstep in the drawing-room. Ellen
thought at first it must be cook's fancy,
because she was sure the front door was
fastened ; but when they listened, they all
heard the noise together, so she ran upstairs,
and what on earth do you think
she saw ? '

How can I guess, my dear ? '
Why, a lady, seated in this very room,
as if she was waiting for somebody. She
was oldish, Ellen says, and had a very
white face, with long curls hanging down
each side of it ; and she wore a blue
bonnet with white feathers, and a long
black cloak, and — '

Emily, Emily ! Stop ! You don't

know what you're talking about. That
girl is a fool : you must send her away.
That is, how could the lady have got in
if the door was closed ? Good heavens !
you'll all drive me mad between you with
your folly ! ' exclaimed Mr Braggett, as he
threw himself back in his chair, with an
exclamation that sounded very like a groan.

Pretty Mrs Braggett was offended. What
had she said or done that her husband
should doubt her word ? She tossed her
head in indignation, and remained silent.
If Mr Braggett wanted any further information,
he would have to apologise.

Forgive me, darling,' he said, after a
long pause. ' I don't think I'm very well
this evening, but your story seemed to
upset me.'

I don't see why it should upset you,'
returned Mrs Braggett. ' If strangers are
allowed to come prowling about the house
in this way, we shall be robbed some day,
and then you'll say I should have told
you of it.'

Wouldn't she — this person— give surname
? '

Oh ! rd rather say no more about it.
You had better ask Ellen.'

No, Emily ! I'd rather hear it from you
'Well, don't interrupt me again, then.

When Ellen saw the woman seated here,
she asked her her name and business at
once, but she gave no answer, and only
sat and stared at her. And so Ellen,
feeling very uncomfortable, had just turned
round to call up cook, when the woman got
up, and dashed past her like a flash of
lightning, and they saw nothing more of
her!'

Which way did she leave the house ? '

Nobody knows any more than how
she came in. The servants declare the
hall-door was neither opened nor shut —
but, of course, it must have been. She
was a tall gaunt woman, Ellen says, about
fifty, and she's sure her hair was dyed.
She must have come to steal something,
and that's why I say we ought to have
the house made more secure. Why,
Siggy • Siggy ! what's the matter ? Here,
Ellen ! Jane ! come, quick, some of you !
Your master's fainted ! '

And, sure enough, the repeated shocks
and horrors of the day had had such an
effect upon poor Mr Braggett, that for a
moment he did lose all consciousness of
what surrounded him. He was thankful
to take advantage of the Christmas holidays,
to run over to Paris with his wife, and try
to forget, in the many marvels of that city,
the awful fear that fastened upon him at
the mention of anything connected with
home. He might be enjoying himself
to the top of his bent ; but directly the
remembrance of Charlotte Cray crossed his
mind, all sense of enjoyment vanished, and
he trembled at the mere thought of returning
to his business, as a child does when
sent to bed in the dark.

He tried to hide the state of his feelings
from Mrs Braggett, but she was too sharp
for him. The simple, blushing Emily
Primrose had developed, under the influence
of the matrimonial forcing-frame, into
a good watch-dog, and nothing escaped her
notice.

Left to her own conjecture, she attributed
his frequent moods of dejection to

the existence of some other woman, and
became jealous accordingly. If Siggy did
not love her, why had he married her ?
She felt certain there was some other
horrid creature who had engaged his affections
and would not leave him alone, even
now that he was her own lawful property.
And to find out who the ' horrid creature '
was became Mrs Emily's constant idea.
When she had found out, she meant to
give her a piece of her mind, never fear !
Meanwhile Mr Braggett's evident distaste
to returning to business only served to
increase his wife's suspicions. A clear
conscience, she argued, would know no
fear. So they were not a happy couple,
as they set their faces once more towards
England. Mr Braggett's dread of reentering
his office amounted almost to
terror, and Mrs Braggett, putting this and
that together, resolved that she would
fathom the mystery, if it lay in feminine
finesse to do so. She did not whisper a
word of her intentions to dear Siggy, you
may be sure of that ! She worked after
the manner of her amiable sex, like a catin

the dark, or a worm boring through the
earth, and appearing on the surface when
least expected.

So poor Mr Braggett brought her home
again, heavy at heart indeed, but quite
ignorant that any designs were being made
against him. I think he would have given
a thousand pounds to be spared the duty
of attending office the day after his arrival.
But it was necessary, and he went, like a
publisher and a Briton. But Mrs Emily
had noted his trepidation and his fears, and
laid her plans accordingly. She had never
been asked to enter those mysterious
precincts, the house of business. ]mr
Braggett had not thought it necessary
that her blooming loveliness should be
made acquainted with its dingy, dusty
accessories, but she meant to see them
for herself to-day. So she waited till he
had left Violet Villa ten minutes, and then
she dressed and followed him by the next
train to London.

Mr Sigismund Braggett meanwhile had
gone on his way, as people go to a dentist,
determined to do what was right, but with

an indefinite sort of idea that he might
never come out of it alive. He dreaded to
hear what might have happened in his
absence, and he delayed his arrival at the
office for half-an-hour, by walking there
instead of taking a cab as usual, in order
to put off the evil moment. As he entered
the place, however, he saw at a glance that
his efforts were vain, and that something
had occurred. The customary formality
and precision of the office were upset, and
the clerks, instead of bending over their
ledgers, or attending to the demands of
business, were all huddled together at one
end whispering and gesticulating to each
other. But as soon as the publisher
appeared, a dead silence fell upon the
group, and they only stared at him with
an air of horrid mystery.

What is the matter now ? ' he demanded,
angrily, for like most men when
in a fright which they are ashamed to
exhibit, Mr Sigismund Braggett tried to
cover his want of courage by bounce.

The young man called Hewetson advanced
towards him, with a face the

colour of ashes, and pointed towards
the ground-glass doors dumbly.

What do you mean ? Can't you speak ?
What's come to the lot of you, that you
are neglecting my business in this fashion
to make fools of yourselves ? '

If you please, sir, she's in there.'

Mr Bragged started back as if he'd
been shot. But still he tried to have it
out.

'She! Vslhosshe?'

Miss Cray, sir.'

Haven't I told you already that's a lie.'
'Will you judge for yourself, Mr Brag-get
? ' said a grey-haired man, stepping
forward. ' I was on the stairs myself just
now when Miss Cray passed me, and
I have no doubt whatever but that you
will find her in your private room, however
much the reports that have lately
reached you may seem against the probability
of such a thing.'

Mr Braggett's teeth chattered in his
head as he advanced to the ground-glass
doors, through the panes of one of which
there was a little peephole to ascertain if

the room were occupied or not. He
stooped and looked in. At the table, with
her back towards him, was seated the well-known
figure of Charlotte Cray. He
recognised at once the long black mantle
in which she was wont to drape her gaunt
figure — the blue bonnet, with its dejected-looking,
uncurled feather — the lank curls
which rested on her shoulders — and the
black-leather bag, with a steel clasp, which
she always carried in her hand. It was
the embodiment of Charlotte Cray, he had
no doubt of that ; but how could he reconcile
the fact of her being there with the
damp clods he had seen piled upon her
grave, with the certificate of death, and
the doctor's and landlady's assertion that
they had watched her last moments ?

At last he prepared, with desperate
energy, to turn the handle of the door.
At that moment the attention of the more
frivolous of the clerks was directed from
his actions by the entrance of an uncommonly
pretty woman at the other end of
the outer office. Such a lovely creature
as this seldom brightened the orloom of

their dusty abiding-place. Lilies, roses,
and carnations vied with each other in her
complexion, whilst the sunniest of locks,
and the brightest of blue eyes, lent her
face a girlish charm not easily described.
What could this fashionably-attired Venus
want in their house of business ?

Is Mr Braggett here ? I am Mrs
Braggett. Please show me in to him immediately.'


They glanced at the ground-glass doors
of the inner office. They had already closed
behind the manly form of their employer.

This way, madam,' one said, deferentially,
as he escorted her to the presence
of Mr Braggett.

Meanwhile, Sigismund had opened the
portals of the Temple of Mystery, and
with trembling knees entered it. The
figure in the chair did not stir at his
approach. He stood at the door irresolute.
What should he do or say ^

Charlotte,' he whispered.

Still she did not move.

At that moment his wife entered.

Oh, Sigismund ! ' cried Mrs Emily,

reproachfully, * I knew you were keeping
something from me, and now I've caught
you in the very act. Who is this lady,
and what is her name ? I shall refuse to
leave the room until I know it.'

At the sound of her rival's voice, the
woman in the chair rose quickly to her
feet and confronted them. Yes ! there
was Charlotte Cray, precisely similar to
what she had appeared in life, only with
an uncertainty and vagueness about the
lines of the familiar features that made
them ghastly.

She stood there, looking Mrs Emily
full in the face, but only for a moment,
for, even as she gazed, the lineaments
grew less and less distinct, with the shape
of the figure that supported them, until,
with a crash, the apparition seemed to fall
in and disappear, and the place that had
known her was filled with empty air.

Where is she gone ? ' exclaimed Mrs
Braggett, in a tone of utter amazement.

Where is who gone ? ' repeated Mr
Braggett, hardly able to articulate from
fear.

The lady in the chair ! '

There was no one there except in your
own imagination. It was my great-coat
that you mistook for a figure,' returned her
husband hastily, as he threw the article in
question over the back of the arm-chair.

But how could that have been ? ' said
his pretty wife, rubbing her eyes. * How
could I think a coat had eyes, and hair,
and features ? I am sure I saw a woman
seated there, and that she rose and stared
at me. Siggy ! tell me it was true. It
seems so incomprehensible that I should
have been mistaken.'

You must question your own sense.
You see that the room is empty now,
except for ourselves, and you know that
no one has left it. If you like to search
under the table, you can.'

Ah ! now, Siggy, you are laughing at
me, because you know that would be folly.
But there was certainly some one here —
only, where can she have disappeared to ? '

Suppose we discuss the matter at a
more convenient season,' replied Mr Brag-get,
as he drew his wife's arm through his

arm. ' Hewetson ! you will be able to tell
Mr Hume that he was mistaken. Say,
also, that I shall not be back in the office
to-day. I am not so strong as I thought
I was, and feel quite unequal to business.
Tell him to come out to Streatham this
evening with my letters, and I will talk
with him there.'

What passed at that interview was never
disclosed ; but pretty Mrs Braggett was
much rejoiced, a short time afterwards, by
her husband telling her that he had resolved
to resign his active share of the
business, and devote the rest of his life to
her and Violet Villa. He would have no
more occasion, therefore, to visit the office,
and be exposed to the temptation of spending
four or five hours out of every twelve
away from her side. For, though Mrs
Emily had arrived at the conclusion that
the momentary glimpse she caught of a
lady in Siggy's office must have been a
delusion, she was not quite satisfied by his
assertions that she would never have found
a more tangible cause for her jealousy.

But Sigismund Braggett knew more

than he chose to tell Mrs Emily. He
knew that what she had witnessed was
no delusion, but a reality ; and that Charlotte
Cray had carried out her dying
determination to call at his office and his
private residence, until she had seen his
wife I

END OF VOL. III.

Boston AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.
