mmmmmmm

Drive

AY

TO

By JriE/^JTf'of^ op

My Sister the Actress

wmHm

OF THE

UN Rivers City

or Ill Noir

82 3
L475dL

A NOVEL.

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR OF

'love's conflict,' 'my own child,'
'the master passion,' 'spiders of society,'

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. I.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C,

1887.

\ All Rights reserved. ^

EDINBURGH

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CONTENTS.

^

^"

^

CHAP. PAGE

I. Jack, the Sailor, i

II. Vernon, the Lover, 17

III. Iris Harland, 3^

IV. Les Nouveaux Riches, . . .-55
V. Breakers Ahead, 72

VI. A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing, . . 85.
VII. Two Women's Hearts, . . . .98

VIII. The pandora,' 115

IX. Mr Greenwood, 132

X. Good-bye to England, . . . • i53

XI. A Discovery, 175

XII. At Sea, 191

XIII. Courtship, 200

XIV. Remonstrance, 216

Crown 8z/<9, clothe 3^-. 6d. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.
PEERESS AND PLAYER.
FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.
A BROKEN BLOSSOM.

THE HEIR-PRESUMPTIVE.
THE HEART OF JANE WARNER.
UNDER THE LILIES & ROSES.
MY OWN CHILD.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.
By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Clip).
HER SUCCESS. I Juniper.

KATE VALLIANT. I ALLERTON TOWERS.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS.
By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.
MATED WITH A CLOWN. | MOLLIE DARLING.

ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN. | SWEETHEART AND WIFE.

By MRS Houston, Author of " Recommended to Mercy."

BARBARA'S WARNING.

By MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.

THE MATCH OF THE SEASON. | A FATAL PASSION.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.

By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.

ONLY A LOVE STORY. | NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY.

By JEAN Middlemost.
POISONEDARROWS.
By MRS H. LOVETT CAMERON.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. | A DEAD PAST.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID.
By DORA RUSSELL. I By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

OUT OF EDEN. I KEITH'S WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE HARRISON, Author of " So Runs my Dream.

FOR ONE man's PLEASURE.

By EDMUND Leather.

THE A C T O r's WIFE.

By HARRIETT JAY.

A MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/driventobaynovel01lean

CHAPTER I.

JACK, THE SAILOR.

HE August sun had just sunk
below the horizon, as Jack
Blythe, a passenger by the
down train from London to Portsmouth,
walked leisurely home to a little cottage
situated on Southsea Common.

He was a tall, well-built young fellow
of five - and - twenty, with a remarkably
graceful figure. His hair was pale brown,
with the faintest tinge of gold upon it ;
his eyes were grey and languid in their

VOL. I. A

expression — his general appearance somewhat
delicate. And yet Jack Blyihe (who
had been christened Vernon) was one of
the merriest, most manly fellows in existence.
The very fact of his proper
name having been mysteriously changed
to 'Jack' was a proof of his being a
favourite with his own sex : as for the
other, they, one and all, combined to
spoil him. Few, seeing Jack for the first
time, would have guessed his profession.
He looked like a poet, but he was a
sailor, and belonged to the roughest part
of the profession — the Merchant Service.
He had been educated, indeed, with a
view to very different work ; but when
it was too late for him to enter the Royal
Navy, he had intimated his unalterable
decision to go to sea, and his mother,
who was his only surviving parent, had,
with many tears, consented to his wishes.
But he was a good son and a good sailor,
and she had never repented of letting
him have his own way.

As he approached his destination, he
was accosted by another young man who
had run half-way across the common to
meet him.

Hullo, Jack ! how are you ? You're
the very man I want,' cried the new-comer
effusively.

What for, Reynolds ? To pull an oar
in a boating party, or to rig up a tent
for a camping - out expedition ? ' asked
Blythe.

Better than that, old boy ! I've bought
that little yacht, the Water Witch, at last,
and you must sail her for me. I have
my party all ready, and we can start for
the Island tomorrow morning.'

I should very much like to join you,
old man,' said Jack, * but it can't be done.
I may have to go to town again tomorrow
to meet an influential friend.'

Hang it ! You are always going up
io town ! ' ejaculated the other. ' One day
off can surely do you no harm.'

It might, at present, Reynolds. I

have stayed on shore too long already,
and I find some difficulty in getting a
ship. I have sent in my application fora
berth on board the Pandora, and as I
have good Interest, I hope I may get it.
But nothing is certain in this world, and
I cannot afford to relax my energies until
I am provided for. You see my twelvemonth's
pay is nearly gone — that's where
the shoe pinches ; so, if I lose my chance
of the Pandora I shall have to hunt
up all the skippers and owners in the
docks.'

'You'll get a ship fast enough,' grumbled
Reynolds ; ' you've passed for chief officer.
What more do you want ? Come, old
boy,' he continued coaxingly, ' say you'll
give up tomorrow to the Water Witch
and me — '

I will, if it is possible ! I can say no
more,' replied Jack Blythe.

Alice Leyton has promised to accompany
us,' resumed Reynolds, meaningly.

'Has she?' remarked Jack without a

blush. 'Well, If I can join the party,
she will prove an extra attraction to it,
naturally. But it is as necessary for her
sake as for my own that I should get
employment as soon as possible.'

And, with a wave oi the hand, Jack
Blythe continued his walk to his mother's
cottage.

I don't believe he cares a rap for that
girl,' thought Reynolds, as he, too, turned
homewards. ' Fancy ! calmly resigning
a whole day on the water with the
woman he is supposed to be in love
with. Bah ! The fellow's not made of
flesh and blood.'

But in this, as in many things, Mr
Reynolds was mistaken. It was a hard
trial for Vernon Blythe to relinquish what
was, to him, one of the greatest pleasures
in life. He would have given anything
in reason to have had an opportunity to
test the sailing powers, and seen the behaviour
of the saucy little Water Witch
under his guidance ; and for a while he

felt half disposed to gratify his desire at
the expense of his duty.

'Shall I go?' he asked himself as he
strode onwards. * After all, it will only
be a day more, and I don't half like the
idea of Alice going without me. She
doesn't mean any harm, I know — still,
she is rather free in her manners, and
apt to say more than she means, and
Reynolds certainly admires her. Pshaw !
I am talking nonsense ! I have promised
to meet Mr Barber, and I must be firm.
Besides, if Alice is not to be trusted on
a water-party without my protection, how
am I to leave her (as I soon may) to
take a voyage to New Zealand alone ? I
must trust her "all in all, or not at all." I
was a fool even to think of such a thing ! '

And starting off at a brisk pace, he
soon reached his mother's cottage.

Mrs Blythe was on the look-out for
her son's return. He was her only child,
and she loved him as only a mother can
love the one treasure of her heart. His

father, who was an officer in the Royal
Navy, had been drowned at sea whilst
Vernon was a baby, and it had been the
one wish of her widowed life that her
boy should not be a sailor. But as he
grew up, the inherited instinct developed
itself, and she had been forced to part
with her darling ; since which her life
had been divided into two parts only —
the days when Vernon was at home, and
the days when he was not. Mrs Blythe
always called her son 'Vernon.' It had
been her own maiden name, and she
would recognise him by no other. She
thought the nickname of ' Jack ' both low
and vulgar, and was disgusted whenever
she heard him addressed by it. She was
a round, rosy little woman, very unlike
her son, who inherited his beauty from
his father, but she was a good mother
to him, and he loved her devotedly. Although
she had such good reason to hate
and dread the sea, yet she felt she could
not live away from it, and had been

settled In Southsea ever since her husband's
death. Her cottage, which faced
the common, was surrounded by a pretty
garden, enclosed by a wooden paling and
a little rustic gate. The room where she
awaited her son was neatly furnished, the
walls being covered with the curiosities
which Vernon, and his father before him,
had brought her home from different
parts of the world. Talipots and fans
from Rangoon, and bangles and hookahs
from Calcutta hung by the side of skins
and palm - leaf trophies from the West
Coast, and green stone and carved wooden
weapons from Maori land. Daintily-painted
boxes, and wonderfully - carved
pagodas were piled up with ornamented
whales' teeth, and the inexhaustible fern
leaves from St Helena, and necklaces
and poisoned spears from the Sandwich
Islands. Here, in fact, were to be seen
specimens of art from every quarter of
the globe, and with a story attached to
each, marking the milestones along the

widow's path of life, and hallowed by her
smiles and tears. The room had more
the appearance of a museum than a
private dining-room, but these innumerable
curiosities were Mrs Blythe's greatest
treasures, over which she brooded whilst her
son was absent on his long sea voyages.
She had had him all to herself for twelvemonths
now, but the holiday was drawing
to a close, and each day she dreaded
to hear him say that he must leave her.

Well, Vernon, my darling ! ' she exclaimed
anxiously, as he entered the room
where his tea was ready laid for him ;
what news have you to-day ? '

None in particular, mother,' he replied,
throwing himself into a chair. ' I have
been to dozens of firms, but it is the old
story with all of them.'

Something will spring up by-and-by,'
said Mrs Blythe, soothingly, * and for my
part I don't care how long it may be first.
But have your tea now, dear. I am sure
you must be tired.'

I am dead beat,' replied Vernon, drawing
his chair to the table. ' I called to-day
on Stern & Stales, and saw their ship's
husband about the appointment on board
the Pandora. I told him how very-anxious
I am to get it, but he is not sure
if it is given away. However, he has four
passenger ships all going to New Zealand,
and if the Pandora! s berth is filled, he has
promised to try and get me on one of
the others. If I don't hear from him by
tomorrow I am to go up and see him
again.'

Mrs Blythe gave a shrug of impatience.

I can't think,' she said somewhat testily,
why you should be so dreadfully anxious
to sail in the Pandora!

Her son regarded her with mild surprise.

Why, mother, you know that the Leytons
have secured their passages by her.
What is more natural than I should wish
to go too ? '

Well, if you do your duty on board
ship, as I know you always do, you will

have no time to waste on making love to
Alice Leyton.'

Vernon laughed in his lazy fashion.

Perhaps not ! but I shall be near her incase
of her requiring me, and when we get
to New Zealand, I shall see her father
and feet the matter settled. It is time
it was settled, mother. We have been
engaged now for nearly a year, and I
suppose that, sooner or later, we must
be married.'

It had better be later, then,' replied
Mrs Blythe, hotly. ' For my part, I think
it is nonsense to hear you talk of such a
thing as marriage. A child like you, and
without any money.'

The last objection is unfortunately
true enough,' replied Vernon ; ' but as for
being a child — well, all I can say is, I
don't feel like one. And if Alice chooses
to marry a poor man, that is her business,
and no one else's.'

'There is a much greater objection to
the marriage, in my opinion, than that,

urged Mrs Blythe. * I don't think Alice
Ley ton really cares for you.'

Oh, mother, why should you say so.
What right have you to think it. I should
never have proposed to her if I had not
seen plainly that she cared for me.'

'Any fool could see that she set her
cap at you, Vernon. But she is not the
only girl that has done that. And she is
a flirt, my dear. I daresay you will be
angry with me, but I must speak the truth.
Whilst you are away in London, Alice
Leyton is running about the common and
the pier with any man she can get hold
of, and chattering — dear ! dear ! how that
girl's tongue does run. I pity you if you
are ever shut up with it between four
walls.'

The young man did not seem in the
least angry at this tirade. He waited till
his mother had finished, and then he
answered very quietly, but determinately.

Look here, mother dear. You mustn't
speak in that way of Alice. Remember



she will be my wife. Besides, you are
quite mistaken. She is not a flirt at all.
She is very high-spirited, and has been
brought up in a free and easy manner
(what with her father being away and her
mother an invalid), but that will be all
altered by-and-by. She loves me very
dearly, for aught you may think, and when
she is my wife, she will be all that you can
wish her to be — of that I am very sure.'

She may well love you,' said Mrs
Blythe, looking fondly at her son ; ' who
could help loving you, Vernon ? But
there is another side to the question, Do
you love her ? '

At that he started, and looked uneasy.
Still his answer was given manfully.

Of course I do. Who wouldn't ? A
dear, sweet little girl like that. Why,
mother, when I look at Alice, I think
sometimes she's just the very prettiest girl
I've ever seen. Such eyes and teeth and
skin ! And such a merry smile ! She's
the very impersonation of a sunbeam ! A

man couldn't be unhappy with a creature
Hke that by his side. She'd make him
laugh at a funeral.'

I acknowledge all that,' said Mrs
Blythe, shaking her head oracularly ; ' but
giggles and blushes and good eyes don't
make the happiness of a man's life, when
there's nothing else behind them. And
sometimes, my boy,' she continued, coming
round to his side and putting her hand
caressingly upon his hair, ' sometimes I
fancy — now don't be angry with me, dear,
for 1 wouldn't vex you for the world —
but sometimes I have thought — '

Well, mother, what have you thought ?'
asked Vernon, as he took her hand in his
and laid his cheek against it.

That Alice Leyton is not your first
fancy, Vernon, and that my boy has had a
disappointment of which I have never
heard.'

His youthful cheek grew crimson, then.
She could see the blood mounting to his
forehead and the roots of his hair. And

when he answered her his voice seemed
suddenly to have changed.

And what then ? ' he said curtly.

Is there no hope — no chance — my
darling ? ' asked Mrs Blythe.

Not the slightest. Had there been, do
you suppose I should have been engaged
to Alice Leyton ? I don't know how you
have guessed there was ever another,
mother, but it all happened a long time
ago, and I have nearly forgotten it.'

Vernon, my dear, that is not true.
You cannot have forgotten it, or the allusion
would not move you in this manner.
And as for 'along ago," why, you were
only five-and-twenty last month. How
soon did you begin to fall in love ? '

Never mind that, mother. Whenever
it occurred, or however it affected me, it is
a thing of the past, and I would rather
you never spoke of it to me or any one
again.'

And won't you tell me who it was ? '
said Mrs Blythe, kissing his forehead.

'What is the use?' he rejoined, wearily.

Yet he knew, as he asked the question,
that to tell her everything would be a
relief to him. He had suffered very
deeply, and in all other sufferings but this
his mother had been his true confidant and
friend. And so, with a little gentle coaxing
on her part, as they sat together when
the evening meal was concluded, he was
induced to tell his tale.

VERNON, THE LOVER.

'^'\^j^3j EW people who had only seen
~ '42 Vernon Blythe when in the

^^ pursuit of the manly exercises
in which most sailors delight, and in which
he especially excelled, would have recognised
him now as he lay back in his chair,
with his delicate profile clearly limned
against the evening sky, and a look of
abject pain in the eyes that watched the
curling wreaths of smoke that ascended
from his pipe. There were two distinct
sides to this young man's character, as
there are to that of most of us. To the
outside world, and in the pursuit of his

VOL. I. B

profession, he was known as one of the
most daring, courageous, and undaunted
of natures, — a man who did not know what
it was to fear danger, to dread a risk, or
to leave an insult unavenged. He was
brave, imprudent, and hot-headed, but
strictly generous and honourable. With
his mother, however, and in the sanctity
of home, he was a different creature.
There his heart rose uppermost, and he
became less guarded in his looks and
speech. There, as it were, he thoughtless
of his manhood and men friends, and
more of himself and his private feelings.
And so the secret, which he believed to be
entirely his own property, had slipped from
him unawares, and become his mother's.
But who can hide a beloved child's suffering
from the eyes of his mother '^, And
Vernon felt glad now that it was so.

Do you remember,' he began presently,
and in a lower voice than usual, — * do
you remember, mother, the time after my
second voyage, when I had had that touch

of Gold Coast fever, and you sent me upto
Uncle Vernon's in Selkirk for three
months to recruit ? '

Certainly, dear. What of it ? '

That was the time that it happened.'
Mrs Blythe almost jumped with surprise.
But, good gracious, Vernon, you were

too young for anything then ! It must be
let me see — quite five years ago. You
were not a day over twenty.'

I was old enough, it seems, to love —
and to remember,' he answered quietly.

And you have thought of the girl all
this time ? It appears incredible.'

Nevertheless it is true. But you must
not infer from my words that I have been
grieving after her all this time. That would
be most unfair to Alice Leyton, and it
would not be correct. I cannot forget her
I wish I could — but I have ceased to
lament the inevitable. Only, it has casta
shadow over my life — which you seem
to have perceived, and which I know will
be there until I die.

Oh, my dear boy, you mustn't say that.
Everybody has a love-affair or so before
they settle down. Even / — dearly as I
loved your father — had had several admirers
before I met him.'

Of course you had,' rejoined Vernon
fondly, with the old manner that seemed
sometimes to sit so strangely on his youthful
appearance ; ' heaps of them, I should
say, if the young men of that day had
any gumption about them. I often think,
mother, what a dear, charming, genuine
sort of girl you must have been.'

He pinched her cheek as he spoke, and
Mrs Blythe felt happier at receiving his
compliment, than she had ever done when
the young men he alluded to had paid
theirs.

Now don't be foolish, my darling,' she
said, with an assumption of indifference,
as she settled her head-dress. ' But what
I say is true. First love-affairs are seldom
lasting.'

I daresay not ; I hope not ; although

I fancy I have reached the cHmax of my
forgetfulness. Five years is a long time
to fret after a woman, and, indeed, I have
tried hard to banish her from my mind.
It is only fair to dear little Alice that I
should do so.'

But what went wrong with it, my
boy ? '

Everything, mother ! I met her at a
friend of uncle's, and I loved her from the
very first. But she did not love me, and
there was an end of it. In fact, there was
another fellow in the way.'

Was she so very beautiful, Vernon ? '

'No, I think not — at least, I never
heard any one else say so. But to me
she seemed to have the most perfect face
I had ever seen. When I think of it
now, it looks like the face of an angel.
And everything she said and did seemed
right. I agreed with all her opinions.
We liked the same things — the same
people — the same pursuits. Oh ! what is
the use of thinking of it ? ' he continued

impatiently ; ' I suppose it was my fate to
meet her, and love her, and carry her
remembrance in my heart for ever afterwards.
I have spoken of her this once,
mother, because you asked me. But it
must never be again. I cannot bear it ! '
But why couldn't she love you .^ ' said
Mrs Blythe plaintively. * It was cruel of
her not to undeceive you — such a lad as
you were — from the very beginning.'

That was not her fault, mother. You
must not blame her. I don't think she
was aware of my love until I confessed
it to her. And then it was too late.'
*How 'too late" .^'

She was already engaged to be married
to another man — a man of fashion
and means, and five years my senior — and
two months afterwards she became his
wife, and there was an end to my mad
dream for ever. And perhaps it was
better so than that she should have remained
single, and I gone on hop ng
against hope.'

'What is her name, Vernon ?'

Mother dear, I cannot tell you her
name. Don't ask me to do it. It is
sacred to me, as I thought my secret was,
and I could not bear to think it had
passed my lips. Remember her only as
the one great love of your son's life :
it is the highest title you can give her.'

And do you know her husband '^. *
asked Mrs Blythe.

No, certainly not he answered roughly,
and, from all I have heard of him, I
never wish to know him. Let us drop the
subject. But you will understand better
now my anxiety to marry Alice Leyton.
Nothing could contribute more to the
healing of this mental wound than the
constant presence of a woman who loves
me. The sunshine she will bring with
her will chase the last shadow away.'

'It is terrible to hear you talk of
** shadows " at your age, Vernon,' replied
Mrs Blythe, wiping her eyes.

Nonsense ! ' he cried lightly, as he

sprang from his chair ; * we all have them,
more or less. My lot is no worse than
that of other men. If you treat my confidence
in this serious strain, I shall never
give you another.'

No, don't say that, my boy,' replied
his mother. ' I love you for having
spoken to me as you have, and from this
day I will never open my lips upon the
matter.'

That's right,' said Vernon, as he kissed
her. 'And now I'm going down to the
beach to have a look at the Water' Witch,
that is anchored against the pier. I'll be
back to supper,' and, with his pipe in his
mouth, and a forced smile upon his lips,
he left her to herself.'

Having thoughtfully traversed the common
that lay between them and the sea,
Vernon Blythe sat down on a bench just
opposite where the yacht was anchored,
and surveyed her carefully. She certainly
was a very pretty little craft. Her narrow
black hull, with its golden stripe, and her

tapering mast so gracefully raked, showed
she was built for speed and fine-weather
sailing, and the very sight of her made
BIythe wish that he could retract his
promise to the shipowner.

Guess who it is ! ' cried a merry
voice behind him, as a pair of hands
where laid upon his eyes.

It's Alice, and you may belay that,'
replied Vernon, in the same tone. ' You,
have nearly pulled my moustaches outby
the roots, and blinded me with my
own tobacco ash. Be sensible for once
if you can, and come round and sit down
on the bench beside me.'

Alice Leyton, who was attired somewhat
gaily for a promenade in a garrison
town, wriggled coquettishly to the front
of the seat, and stood smiling at her lover.
She was just what he had called her to
his mother — one of the merriest, brightest
girls in existence. She was only eighteen
years old. Her sunny hair hung in waving
curls about her face, and her laughing

blue eyes, which never seemed dull
or weary, played fearful havoc with the
weaker sex. Yet Alice Leyton was no
coquette. She flirted and romped with
every one she could enlist under her
banner, but it was with a view to general
enjoyment, rather than to individual triumph.
But with all her prettiness (which
was undeniable) she did not look high-class.
She was dressed to attract attention
— innocent, maybe, but still attention
and she made the very most of her
neat ankles and small waist and well-developed
bust. Yet, after all, her charms
were natural, and so were her manners.
The ringing laugh and happy, youthful
face, the waving hair, and the fresh colour,
were all her own, and few men would
have been found to deny their fascination.


Kiss me, Jack,' she said effusively,
as she held her rosy mouth towards
him.

Not just yet, my dear child,' he answered,

smiling. ' Why, there are a
dozen people looking at us. Wait till
I get you to myself at home, and I'll
show you what kissing means.'

Horrid boy ! Perhaps I sha net be
in the humour then. '* Paddy, take mein
the mind, and that's just now," '
pouted Alice.

Well, you shouldn't get in the mind
in the middle of the common,' returned
Jack. ' You come and sit down, like a
good girl, and behave yourself properly.'

I've got something to tell you,' she
said, as she nestled up against him.

Spin away, Pussie ! I'm all attention.'

You see the Water Witch lying there ?'
continued Alice. ' Bob Reynolds has
bought her, and he is going to have
a water-party tomorrow, and wants me
to join it ; but I told him I couldn't go
without you.'

Oh ! I see now why Reynolds was
so anxious for my company,' said Jack.
I thought it queer he should ask me to

sail the Water Witch for the first time,
when he boasts so much of his own seamanship


He has asked you then ! ' cried Ace.
And you will go, won't you, dear Jack ? '

I am sorry to say I cannot promise
said Blythe, pulling his moustaches. ' I
may be obliged to go up to town. I told
Reynolds so an hour ago.'

And I shan't be able to go then,' said
Alice, in a tone of vexation.

But why not, dear ? Do you think
that I cannot trust you, or that I am so
selfish as to grudge you any enjoyment in
which I cannot take part myself We
must not begin life on those terms, Alice.
A sailor must always be prepared to part
from his wife, and our marriage must be
one of perfect trust on both sides, or it had
better never take place at all.'

Oh, bother marriage ! ' cried Alice. ' Who
was thinking of such rubbish ? Not I.
All I meant was, that I should be afraid
to trust myself to Bob Reynolds without

you. Do you know that one day last year,
when you were in Calcutta, he took me
out in a boat, and toppled me into the
water, and if it had not been for old Jerry
Sparks, the waterman, pulling off in his
punt, I might have been drowned.'

He's an awkward land lubber,' said Jack,
as he passed one of her curls through his
fingers.

That's a cool way of taking it, Jack.
But it's true, I can tell you. He "cracked
on" till the gunwale was under water, and
we all had to sit up to windward, and then
played pranks with the sail until he overturned
the boat. And you wouldn't like
to see me drowned, would you. Jack ? ' she
continued insinuatingly.

No ! That would not be nice at all,'
replied her lover ; ' besides, it would spoil
that pretty dress.'

Well, then, will you go and take care
of me ? '

I suppose I shall have to in the end ;
that is, if you are determined to have your

own way. Like the blessed Saint Anthony,
I have resisted all the other temptations,
but the last one always proves too much
for me. Do you know that I have a
chance of going out with you to New
Zealand, Alice, as second officer in the
Pandora ? '

Have you really ? Oh, that will be
great fun. But I hope they won't let you
do what you like with the ship, or you
may run us on a rock, or something
horrid.'

Thank you for the compliment. But
I think you may feel perfectly safe — not
with me, but in the Pandora'

Is she such a good ship then ? '

She is an iron clipper, registered Ai at
Lloyd's.'

Now I am as wise as before.'

You will soon find out all about her
when you get aboard. And I hope sincerely
I may be there too. You can guess
the reason I am so anxious to visit New
Zealand, Alice.'

I can't. What is it ? ' demanded Alice,
with open eyes.

Because I want to make the personal
acquaintance of your father, and get him
to fix some definite time for our marriage.
I think it is time we were married,
Ace.'

/ don't ! ' cried the girl, shrugging her
shoulders.

Oh, yes, you do. That is only a little
bit of mock modesty, put on for the occasion.
At any rate, that is my intention,
in applying for a berth in the Pandora.
Your mother is all kindness to me,
but I think she is just a little afraid
of what your father may say to our
engagement.'

You see,' said Alice, kicking the stones
with her feet, ' father is very well off, and
there are only two of us, and mother thinks
perhaps — '

That he will not consider me a good
enough match for his eldest daughter.
Well, with regard to money, that is true

enough, although my birth is second to

none

But / love you Jack, remember,' said
Alice, ' and I mean to marry you, whatever
any one may say against It.'

'Well, dearest, it will be better to get
the matter settled anyway. I am sorry
now that your mother has not been more
explicit with Mr Leyton, but she preferred
to speak to him herself on the subject. If
I am lucky, I shall be there too, and
between us all, wee must carry the
day.'

Unless father thinks that, as mother is
such an invalid, it is my duty to remain
with her and take care of her. Baby is of
no use, you know.'

Alice !' exclaimed Blythe suddenly, ' tell
me the truth ! Do you want to marry
me?'

'Why, of course I do. Jack. Didn't I
fall in love with your handsome face the
first day we met ? '

Oh, bother my handsome face ! ' cried

the young man impetuously. * Do you
love me ? That is the question ? Does
your heart speak to mine ?'

'How tiresome you are to-night,' returned
Alice. ' What have I ever done to make
you think I don't love you ? Haven't we
talked of being married, and told all our
friends about it for a year past ? Why
she continued in a shy tone, * I marked
one of my handkerchiefs a. b. the other
day, just to see how it looked, and I
thought it was lovely!

Dear girl,' said Jack patronisingly
that is finally settled then. Whether I
sail in the Pandora or not, I shall make
my way out to New Zealand and ask
your father to give you to me for my
wife.'

But that will not be for a long time yet,
and so we need not talk of it any more,'
replied Alice. ' Here is your mother,'
Jack, coming across the common to meet
us.'

Vernon rose as his mother advanced
VOL. I. c

towards them. His politeness to her was
as great as it was to other women.

Here is a letter for you from Stern &
Stales, my dear,' said Mrs Blythe, ' so I
thought you would wish to see it at
once.'

Thanks,' cried Vernon, as he tore open
the envelope. ' Mother ! you have joined
us most opportunely. Listen.

'' Dear Sir, — An accident has happened
to the second officer of the Pandora
through the snapping of an iron
chain, which will prevent him from sailing
in the vessel.

*''I am able, therefore, most unexpectedly
to offer you the appointment you desire.
If you will be at the shipping office on
the seventeenth instant at twelve o'clock
to meet Captain Robarts, you can sign
the necessary articles."

There's good luck, mother. Won't you
wish me joy ? Alice ! we are to be shipmates,

and I can make up my mind now.
I will join the party on the Water Witch
tomorrow, and see that you behave yourself
steadily. Mother ! I shall want all my
things to be ready by the twenty-third.'

But Mrs Blythe was already half-way
back across the common, sobbing as if her
heart would break.

IRIS Garland.

N the same evening that the
newly-appointed officer of the
Pandora was congratulating
himself on his good luck, and trying to
deceive himself into believing he was in
love with the girl he was engaged to
marry, a very different scene was being
enacted in a furnished lodging in one of
the smaller streets of Publico. The chief
actor there was also a man — young, good-looking,
and a gentleman — but with distinct
traces on his countenance of the
tempest of passions and vices he had
passed through. He called himself Godfrey

Harland. He was a fine, well-built man,
with dark hair, an olive complexion, and
a black moustache. His eyes, which were
also dark and piercing, were set too near
his nose for honesty, and had a cunning,
distrustful look in them. His mouth was
small, with thin compressed lips that
covered a set of strong white teeth, and
his jaw was heavy and determined. Ashe
sat, pondering over his past and his
future, with a cigar between his lips, and
a glass of brandy and water in his hand,
he looked evil, and almost dangerous.
Godfrey Harland had had a chequered
life. His father had possessed a large
fortune, and given his son, whilst young,
the advantages not only of a liberal
education and college training, but unlimited
money to supply himself with all
the luxuries, and indulge in all the dissipations
of life. But one day the crash
came. Godfrey's father lost all his money
in that great lottery which has ruined so
many thousands, the Stock Exchange,

and his son suffered with him. He was
at once withdrawn from college, his ample
allowance was stopped, and he was told
he must go out into the world and support
himself. With some great souls a
reverse of fortune proves a stimulus to
exertion, and is the test that brings out
their virtues. But weaker natures fail
under it, and Godfrey Harland's nature
was essentially weak. By reason of his
father's former influence in the city, he
was soon installed as clerk in one of the
best-known London firms. Before he
had been there three months, however,
a mysterious forgery was committed by
some one in the house, and before the
offender could be discovered Godfrey had
fled to America, thereby leaving a dark
suspicion on his own name.

In the United States he had tried his
hand at everything. He tilled the ground
and lived with the farm hands in the
carry on pork and beans. He joined
an old trapper in the Rocky Mountains,

where he had many a rough struggle
with the ' grlzzHes,' and left him for a
cattle-herder on a ranch in Texas, where
he earned the sobriquet of ' Satan '
amongst the drovers, for his dare-devil
propensities. He was engaged in many
a night raid on the Indians, and sat in
his saddle for three days before a cattle
stampede, and ' knife ' or ' winged ' more
than one man in that wild territory, where
shooting a fellow-creature is thought no
more of than felling a buffalo.

In fact, Godfrey Harland had been
everything by turns. A guard on the
Grand Trunk — a baggage man to a
theatrical company — an able seaman on
a coaster — and last, though not least, a
barman at a ' hell-upon-earth ' in New
York, where he had imbibed his gambling
propensities, and whence he had ventured
to return to England under an assumed
name — not the first he had taken — and
make a new circle of acquaintances for
himself.

Curse that '' Peppermint ! " ' he was
saying, when we first see him ; ' if he
had pulled it off at Aintree, I should
have been safe. I can't stand much
more of this. They must come down
upon me before long. I wouldn't have
minded my shaking at the Lincoln,
though it was stiff enough. But I believe
they dosed '' Peppermint," and I owe all
my debts to a painted quid. By Jove !
I should like to know how much old
Roper's worth. If he would stand to
lend me a "thou," I might make my
running with Vansittart's daughter. I
wonder if the old stock-driver meant what
he said the other night ? Gad ! what a
stroke of luck it would be. A home at
the Antipodes — a settled position withall
the old worries left behind me in
England, and the chance of an heiress.
I mustn't lose it, if I stake my very soul
upon the die. I shall never get such an
opportunity of retrenching again. Not if
I live to the age of Methuselah. Never! '

And he drained the glass of brandy
and water with a feverish impatience, as
though the good fortune he was anticipating
lay at the bottom of it.

At this juncture the door of the room
opened, and a woman entered. What a
woman she was. What a graceful, refined,
spirituelle creature. Her slight, lissom
figure was the impersonation of elegance.
Her hazel eyes looked out from her pale
features like those of a deer, heavy with
unshed tears. Her tender mouth was
even now curved in a sad smile, and her
sunny hair, with its rich chesnut shades
of light and shadow, rippled about her
shoulders, and curled caressingly around
her youthful face. She was dressed
shabbily, and somewhat untidily, for it
is hard to keep always tidy when one is
poor, but she looked a gentlewoman from
head to foot — more, she might have been
a princess, masquerading in a beggar's
clothes. And this was Iris Harland,
Godfrey Harland's wife. What could a

man like this want with a wife ? He
had never been constant to one thing In
this world. Was it likely he would be
constant to a woman ? Iris knew to her
cost that he was not. But she had already
outlived-the pain the knowledge gave
her. The numerous shocks she had sustained
since her marriage had rendered
her Indifferent. Many an insult she had
borne patiently from her husband, and
without resentment, until all her love had
died away, and left nothing behind It buta
feeling of contempt and fear.

Why had he married her ? Godfrey
Harland had often asked himself this
question and been unable to answer it.
He was the last man in the world who
should have encumbered himself with a
wife. But after his return from America,
he had met this girl living quietly with
her widowed father, and had fallen desperately
in love with her purity and innocence,
so different from what he had
been accustomed to. And Iris had believed

him to be all that he was not.
His varied experiences, and able mode of
relating the wonders of his travels, had
fascinated her girlish heart, and made her
accept him as her life-long companion and
friend. But six months of married life
had undeceived her. By that time, reverses
had come upon them, and the man's
brutal and selfish nature had revealed itself.
His passion for her had been simply an
infatuation. He had been delighted with
his pretty toy at first, but, like a spoiled
child, he spurned it, when it had become
familiar to him. He had wounded her
deeply by his indifference ; he had
frightened her with his violence and
threats, but it was his insults that had
stabbed her to the heart, and killed her
respect for him. Had he taken a horsewhip
and struck her (as he was quite
capable of doing), she might still have
forgiven him, but an insult to a woman's
honour is never forgotten, and seldom pardoned.
Many women will slave for their

husbands night and day — they will starve
themselves to keep the wolf from the
door, and give up home, relations, luxury,
everything, for the man they love. But as
soon as a man returns his wife's affection
by falsely impugning her honour — when he
accuses her of the infidelity of which he
alone has been guilty — he has severed
the last link that bound them together,
and has only himself to thank, if in the
future her outraged feelings find relief in
the very consolation he has unwarrantably
accused her of seeking. Such was the
state of things between Godfrey Harland
and his wife. A sullen sense of being in
the wrong on his side, and a great contempt
for all he did and said on hers —
and only one wish shared between them
in common, that they had never met !

Here is a letter for you,' said Mrs
Harland, as she placed it in his hand.
He opened and read it through in silence,
although he could not conceal the satisfaction
it gave him.

A man wants to see me on business.
I must go out to-night, and at once. Is
there any more brandy in the cupboard,
Iris ? ' said Godfrey, as he thrust the letter
into his coat pocket.

Is it advisable you should drink anymore
if you are going to transact business
? ' she inquired calmly. She had
observed her husband's expression on
reading the letter, and his ready concealment
of it, and she did not believe
it treated of business. But she did not
say so. If her marriage had done nothing
else for her, it had taught her to conceal
her thoughts.

Confound you ! ' he exclaimed. ' Do
you suppose I should ask for it, if I didn't
require it ^. Give it me at once, or else
send the girl out for some more. Pour
me out a soda, and put a couple of lemons
into it, and a spoonful of bitters. That
will pull me round a bit. I feel quite
confused with trying to see my way out
of the mess we are in.'

Shall you be back to-night, Godfrey?'
Don't know. It all depends. Perhaps
I may be detained late. I've got to see
some fellows at the club ; but don't sit
up for me anyway. And just put out my
dress clothes, will you ? I can't go out
this figure,' and lifting the tankard to his
lips, he drained off his ' pick-me-up ' at a
draught.

His wife left him without another word.
Her lips were compressed, and her eyes
darted scorn, but she did not let him see
them. She knew he had lied to her, ashe
had done for some time past, but if
she put him on his guard, she should
never gain an opportunity to learn the
truth. So she laid out his evening suit
upon the bed, and placed his white tie
upon the toilet-table, and lighted the
candles just as though she believed he
would take all that trouble to meet some
man on business at a city club. And
Godfrey Harland fell into the trap.
Heated and confused by the amount of

liquor he had imbibed, he forgot all about
the letter he had received, and issued from
'the bedroom half-an-hour afterwards in
full evening dress, leaving it behind him
in the pocket of his tweed coat. He did
not deign to say good-night to his wife,
nor to give her any further information
of his proceedings, but turning on his heel,
slammed the front door, and left the house.
When Iris was convinced that he was
really gone, she rose from her seat and
walked into the bedroom.

I mtcst know what takes him away
from home so often,' she thought. ' I
am sure it is not business, and if there
is any other woman in the case, it is time
I asserted myself, and took some action
in the matter. Under any circumstances,
he makes my life a hell, but there is no
need for me to bear more insult than I
am obliged to.' She put her hand into
the pocket of the coat which he had
thrown upon a chair, and drew forth the
letter. It was addressed in a writing

which looked half mercantile, and half
illiterate, and had a great many flourishes
about it. As Iris's eyes fell on its contents,
her pale face grew still paler with
horror. Godfrey had been brutal, unfaithful,
and cruel to her, but she had never
thought so badly of him as this — that
he could contemplate kicking her off like
an old shoe, and leaving her to starve
in England, whilst he sought his fortunes
in a new country.

And yet, what else could that letter
mean ?

Dear Mr Harland, — I have been
thinking over the conversation we had a
few days since ; and I have a proposition
to make to you. You are young, unencumbered,
and willing to work. Why not
take the appointment we were speaking of
that of land-agent to my New Zealand
property, and sail with us in the Pandora,
Under these circumstances I shall be
happy and willing to defray your expenses

to Tabbakooloo, which I should not have
offered under ordinary circumstances. Mrs
But Vansittart Hies you, and so does
Grace — indeed, we all do, and should be
pleased to have such a friend in our Bush
life. Will you come in this evening and
speak to me on the subject, as there is no
time to lose. The Pandora (Messrs
Stern & Stales) sails on the 24th. Trusting
my proposal will please you, — I am,,
yours sincerely, John Vansittart.'

He means to accept this offer,' said
Iris, with clenched teeth, and trying hard
not to cry. ' He will go with these fine
friends of his to New Zealand, and I am
powerless to stop him. If I tell him I
know it, he will soothe me with promises
of remittances that will never come — and I
Oh, God ! what can I do, left here all
by myself — without money or friends, or a
home ? Oh, if my poor father had only
lived I would have gone back to him tonight
and never, never left him more.'

VOL. I. D

The picture drawn by her imagination
of her utter impotence to avert her fate,
here overcame poor Iris's fortitude, and
the tears welled up to her pathetic hazel
eyes, and coursed slowly down her cheeks.
But she did not know that she was sobbing,
until a knock at the door made her
cognisant she had been overheard.

It's me, mistress,' whispered a rough
voice ; ' mayn't I come in ? '

Oh yes, Maggie. What do you want ? '
said Iris, drying her eyes.

Want!' echoed the servant, as she made
her appearance ; * why, to know what's
been vexing you. That's what I want.'

She was a dirty, slipshod girl, after the
fashion of maids-of-all-work in smoky
London, but she had youth and a certain
coarse comeliness about her which might
prove attractive to men who looked for
nothing below the surface.

Has he been bullying you agen ?' she
asked, with rough sympathy, as she stood
in the doorway and regarded her mistress.

It's a shame — that's what I say — and I'd
like to pay him out for it. That I would.'

Hush ! Maggie ; you mustn't say that !
remonstrated Iris. ' Of course, you know I
am not happy, but you have been in your
master's pay for several years, and you
mustn't bite the hand that feeds you.'

I'd never have stayed if it hadn't been
for you, mistress — nor if he had treated
you properly neither. And perhaps, after
all, I've been wrong to stay,' said Maggie,
with a sob in her throat.

Wrong to stay!' repeated Iris in surprise.
' Why, Maggie ! what should I
have done without you .^ '

Ah ! but you don't know,' cried the
servant.

I know that you've been the best girl
to me that ever lived,' said Iris, gently.
That you have stood my friend through
everything — often my protector — and that
I have found my best comfort in you.'

The only answer Maggie made to this
speech was conveyed by throwing herself

on her knees at her mistress's feet, and
burying her disorganised head in her lap.

Don't speak to me Hke that,' she
gasped through her tears. ' I ain't deserving
of it ; and if you knew what a bad girl
I am, you'd turn me out of your house
tomorrow.'

I don't think I should, Maggie. If I
believed you to be bad (which I don't) I
should try to return your kindness to me
by pointing out a better mode of life to
you. But don't talk nonsense. I have
no fault to find with you — so you need
find none with yourself.'

you're an angel, that's what you are,'
said Maggie, standing up and drying her
eyes, 'and I'm a brute, and so is he.
But what vexes you now, my pretty '^. '

This question brought poor Iris back
to a remembrance of her own troubles.

Oh ! I can't tell you, Maggie — at least
not yet — for I am not even sure if I have
any right to feel vexed. But my future
looks very dark to me — very dark indeed,

and I cannot help fretting to think what
may be in store.'

And lies at the bottom of it, of course
observed Maggie, with an irreverent
motion of her thumb towards the sitting-room.


Iris sighed. Was he not at the bottom
of all her troubles ?

Has that letter got anything to do
with the matter, mistress ? ' asked Maggie,
looking at the paper in her hand.

Yes ; but don't ask me any more
questions about it, Maggie. If Mr Har-land
forces me to act, I promise you shall
know all.'

You promise that, mistress, on your
word of honour ? '

I do promise, dear Maggie,' replied
Iris, bending forward to kiss the earnest
face raised to hers. But Maggie started
as if she had been shot.

No ! no ! you shan't kiss me ! I ain't
fit for you to touch. But let me kiss
your hand, dear. There ! that can't hurt

Driven to Bay.

you — and I wouldn't hurt you (God
knows), not to save my own life.' And
with a smothered sob, and an application
of her grimy apron to her eyes, Maggie
Greet took her way down to the lower
regions again.

LES NOUVEAUX RICHES.

F course the Vansittartss occupied
the biggest and most expensive
house they had been able to
procure on taking up their residence In
London. They were nouveaux riches of
the very first water. John Vanslttart, the
head of the family, was the son of a
respectable Berkshire farmer, who had
given him a thousand pounds as a start In
life, with which the young man had gone
out to New Zealand, and invested in a
sheep run, which had resulted in his
becoming a millionaire. Yet no extraordinary
good luck had contributed to his

success. He had simply been frugal and
painstaking, and kept his eyes open, and
married a woman who helped instead of
hindered him. And now, at sixty years of
age, he was celebrated for being one of the
largest sheep owners in New Zealand. He
had not married early, and his only child,
a daughter called Grace, was just twenty
years old. She had been in England
much longer than her parents. They had
sent her home to a fashionable boarding-school
at twelve years of age, and had not
found time to join her until a year before
this story opens. They had returned to
England with an idea of remaining there,
but they had soon changed their minds.
Their bush life had unfitted them for
society. Satins and laces and shining
broadcloth sat uneasily upon them, and
both Mr and Mrs Vansittart longed for
the moment when they should settle down
in their New Zealand home again. Not
that they would admit, even to themselves,
that the whirl and bustle, the pomp and

formality, of a London life were too much
for them. On the contrary, they blamed
the great Metropolis for being slow and
stupid, and would not allow that anything
it produced could equal the same article in
New Zealand. They were both very fat.
and simple, and good natured — extravagantly
proud of their fashionable daughter
Grace, who did not acquiesce in the opinions
of her parents — and ready to spend their
money like water, because they really did
not know what else to do with it. They
lived in a splendid mansion overlooking
the park, which had been furnished from
basement to attic, at the sweet will of the
upholsterer, and consequently bore the
impress of wealth upon every part of it.
The hall was carpeted with bear and tiger
skins, and hung with armour and stuffed
deers' heads, interspersed with blue and
white Nankin China, and beaten brass
from Benares. The drawing-room was
furnished in the style of Louis Quatorze,
and opened into a vast conservatory, rich

with tropical plants. In the dining-room,
the walls of which were hung with stamped
leather, and lighted by silver sconces, were
to be found as many portraits of gallant
lords and lovely ladies, figuring in the
costumes of three and four hundred years
before, as if John Vansittart had come of a
long line of noble ancestors, instead of
being unable to trace his pedigree beyond
the loins of the Berkshire farmer, whose
father had been an unknown quantity.
The whole house reeked of money, but,
strange to say, it did not oppress one as
such things usually do. The fact is, the
owners of these extravagancies did not
value them one whit because they had cost
money. They were ready to leave them
all behind tomorrow — indeed, they were
going to do so ; and John Vansittart had
remarked more than once to his wife, that
it was a pity they hadn't some good friend
to whom they could make over the whole
lot as a present, instead of letting them go
for nothing at auction. But that was just

their trouble. They had no friends —
hardly any acquaintances. Grace had
come home to them, fresh from her school,
and good, honest Mrs Vansittart was not
the sort of woman to push her way into
society, even with the aid of her enormous
wealth. She was too shy and retiring todo
so. That was the reason they had
become intimate with Godfrey Harland.
He had met Mr Vansittart first in the city,
and, passing himself off as a bachelor, had
been taken home to the big house in the
park by that gentleman, and introduced to
his family. They had all received him
with open arms. He was good-looking,
fashionable, and very wide-awake. He
put the father up to all sorts of dodges.
He flattered the mother, and helped her
out of all her difficulties, and he (almost)
made love to the daughter. At least he
showed her a great deal of attention, and
Grace Vansittart repaid it in kind. It was
natural she should. He was about the
only ' swell ' (as she would have expressed

it) who came to their house, and her
fashionable training had taught her to
discriminate, and to Hke ' swells.' She
hated the idea of settling in New Zealand,
although she could not of course go against
her parents' wishes, and would very much
have preferred marrying, and remaining in
England. Had he been single, Harland
would have found it an easy game to play.
He might even have been left in possession
of the palatial house and furniture. But
the house would not have suited his
purpose, as we know. He was not actually
planning to commit bigamy — he was not
even sure if he wished it — but he was
sorely in need of the father's money, and
at animate he felt he must make a friend of
the daughter. But his friendship was conducted
on such sentimental terms it might
easily have been mistaken for courtship.
Mr and Mrs Vansittart so mistook it.
They were very fond and proud of their
one ewe lamb, and watched her carefully ;
and they had often remarked to each other

that If they didn't mind it would come to
a match between their Grace and Mr
Harland.

And he ain't got much money, I don't
think ! You must mind that, father,' the
old lady would say.

Lor' ! mother, and if he hasn't — where's
the harm?' Mr Vansittart replied.
Haven't we got enough for all ? Not
but what Harland' (I am afraid he said
'Garland) ' dresses very particular, and
always looks the gentleman. However, I
shan't throw my gal away — you may make
your mind easy about that ; but if the
young feller likes to come out to New
Zealand with us, and shows me as he can
work, and has no nonsense about him, and
our Grace sets her heart upon him — why,
all I shall say is, please yourself, my dear,
and you'll please me.'

And so it was that John Vansittart came
to offer the position of land agent to Godfrey
Harland.

Do you know anything of Mr Har-land's

family or relations, John ? ' said his
wife, when he told her what he had done.

Quite as much as I want to, my dear.
I met the young man at Aintree, walking
about with Lord Sevenoaks and Colonel
Fusee — good enough credentials, I should
think, for anyone — and he gave me his
opinion of the horses that were running.
I should have lost all round if it hadn't
been for him. But he's very wide awake —
got his eyes well open — just the very sort
of man we want out there. Dash his
family ! What do we care about family ?
We ain't got none ourselves. And anyone
can see he's a gentleman born — and he's
got no encumbrances, and if he's willing to
come with us, why, I'm the man to take
him, that's all.'

And I'm sure he'll never repent his
decision,' said Mrs Vansittart, plaintively ;
for no one who once saw our Wellington
or Canterbury could ever wish to set his
foot in this dull and dirty London again.'

When Godfrey Harland reached the

Vanslttart's residence that evening, he
was at once ushered into the Library, where
the master of the house was evidently
awaiting him.

I told 'em to show you in here first,
Mr Harland,' he commenced, cordially
shaking hands, * as I thought you and
me miorht settle this little matter before
joining the ladies. Of course, you've
received my letter.'

About an hour ago,' replied Godfrey.
I came on as soon as ever I could.'

Ah ! I thought that would fetch you,'
chuckled the old man. ' You unmarried
men are lucky dogs, to have no one to say,
With your leave," or "■ By your leave " to
as you go in or out.'

We don't always think so, sir.'

^ No, you don't know when you're well
off. Well, if you take my advice, you'll
remain as you are — for some time to come,
at least. But this ain't business ! What
do you say to my proposal, Mr Har-land?'


That if I can fulfil the duties, the position
will suit me down to the ground.'

Oh ! the duties is easy enough. I shall
want you to be under myself, and do all
the palavering and writing that I can't
manage. You see, Mr Harland, I'm a
rich man, but I'm a plain man, and I
haven't had much education, so that when
I want to invest money, or transact a
heavy sale, figures and such things are a
trouble to me. I call the place " a land
agent's," because I don't know a better
name for it. But, in reality, it's a friend
and help that I want, and if you're willing
to undertake the situation, why, it's yours.'

I accept it with gratitude,' replied Har-land.
' As I have told you honestly, I
have been living very much from hand to
mouth lately, on account of serious losses
through the defalcations of a friend, and
was on the look-out for active employment.
Your offer suits me exactly. I have long
wished to visit New Zealand, and am
charmed at the prospect of doing so in such

company. I thank you very much for
thinking of me.'

That's settled then, sir ; but we haven't
mentioned money yet. I will pay your
passage out, and give you six hundred
pounds for the first year. What I shall do
afterwards, we'll talk of afterwards. Will
that satisfy you for the present ? '

Perfectly,' said Harland, quietly. The
game was in his own hands now, and he
was quivering with delight, but he did not
want the old man to see it.

And perhaps you'd like a lite advance
for your outfit,' continued Vansittart.

If it's perfectly convenient,' stammered
Harland.

Of course, it's convenient,' replied the
other, as he wrote a cheque for fifty
pounds, and pushed it across the table to
him. ' I expected as you'd want it. And
now, remember this, my boy. Though 1
like you well enough, I've given you the
appointment as much for the sake of my
wife and daughter as myself. For they've

VOL. I. E

both taken a fancy to you, and want you
to go out with us, and so any little attention
you can pay them on the voyage
I being but a poor sailor — will be
very thankfully received, and valued accordingly.'


It will be my greatest pleasure to look
after Mrs and Miss Vansittart on board
the Pandora, and supply your place as far
as possible,' replied Harland, gracefully.

Very good,' said his host. ' We've
settled the matter now, and can join the
ladies.'

So Godfrey Harland, looking quite a
swell ' in his well-cut evening suit, entered
the drawing-room a minute afterwards,
with fifty pounds in his pocket, and something
very much like carte blanche to make
love to the heiress of the Vansittartss. The
mother received him with unfashionable
cordiality, shaking his hand vehemently in
token of the new bond between them,
whilst the daughter beamed welcome upon
him with her eyes, from the depths of a

large arm-chair, half shrouded from observation
by a gigantic palm which rose
six feet high from an Etruscan vase of
costly majolica.

Grace Vansittart, with the light weight
of twenty summers on her brow, was an
attractive young woman, although her
lowly origin was plainly traceable in the
style of her beauty. A prolonged and
fashionable training had done much to
make a lady of her, and her milliners contributed
largely to the general effect. But
nothing could do away with the deep
colourings, the large hands and feet, and
the somewhat coarse voice that remained
to her as the heritage of her forefathers.
She had rich brown hair and eyes, a
straight thick nose, a rather full-lipped
mouth, and a figure which, though very
tempting under the rounded lines of girlhood,
would probably be too much of a
good thing ten years later. She was
attired in an expensive dress of some
mauve material, much covered with laces

and drapery, and her ears, arms, neck, and
fingers glittered with gold and jewellery.
She threw a long look at Godfrey from
her full brown eyes, as he approached her
chair, which emboldened him to take a
seat beside her.

So you are really going out with us to
Tabbakooloo,' she said, with a smile.

Yes. Are you sorry ? '

I don't know. You may be useful on
the voyage out. I shall want a great deal
of waiting on, I warn you.'

You cannot possibly want more than
I shall be proud to render you,' replied
Godfrey.

That is really a very nice speech. You
make me quite eager to start, and put your
gallantry to the test.'

Well, it will not be long now. I think
Mr Vansittart told me the Pandora sails
on the 24th.'

Three months at sea ! ' exclaimed Grace,
shrugging her shoulders. * What an awful
prospect. I hope you will think of something

very nice, Mr Harland, to make the
time pass quickly.'

I will do my best. Are you fond of
reading or playing games ? Are you a
chess player ? And if not, shall I teach
you ? I don't know a better plan to make
time fly.'

I really have no choice. I shall leave
that to you. But I hope we are going
to be great friends. Do you think we
shall ? '^

I am store of it,' replied Godfrey fervently.


Harland,' interrupted Mr Vansittart at
this juncture, ' have you any engagement
for this evening ?'

None, sir. I am completely at your
service.'

Well, then, you had better stay here
to-night, and go with me to the shipping
office the first thing tomorrow morning
to secure your berth. Time's getting on,
you know, and if we delay it, we may notable
to get you a comfortable one.'

This proposal did not at all meet with
Harland's views. He had no wish that a
servant should be despatched from Mr
Vansittart's house to his own, to bring"
back his morning clothes, and all the
information Maggie might choose to give
him. And so he readily forged a lie to
excuse himself

I should like it above all things, sir
he stammered, * but if you will allow me
to join you at the office tomorrow morning,
I will be there at any hour you name.
The fact is, I 77tiist sit up to-night writing.
This sudden stroke of fortune has brought
a few cares with it. There is a little
property of mine in the north that I must
put at once into other hands, and my
yacht — '

Oh, you keep a yacht then ! ' exclaimed
Vansittart, rather surprised at the owner
of such an expensive luxury jumping so
readily at the offer he had made him.

I did keep one before I experienced
the heavy losses of which I have told you,"

resumed Godfrey, ' and though she is let
at present to a friend, I must make arrangements
for her going to the hammer
when his lease is up.'

In his anxiety to prevent any unlucky
contretemps revealing the true state of his
domestic affairs, Godfrey Harland would
have given himself a stable full of horses,
and an opera box at Her Majesty's, and
a few dozen carriages to dispose of, in
another minute, if his host, recognising
the reasons he had already given as sufficient,
had not cheerfully consented to his
proposal to meet him at the offices of
Messrs Stern & Stales on the morrow.
And so, not quite knowing whether to be
confounded or elated by his sudden run of
luck, Harland bade his benefactors goodnight.


BREAKERS AHEAD.

Godfrey Garland did not
go home that night. He was
contemplating the commission
of a crime, and he felt lite remorse upon
the subject, but he dreaded the questioning
of his wife as to where he had been and
what he had been doing. Iris was a timid
and long-suffering woman, but she had an
unpleasant habit of looking one straight in
the eyes whilst she waited for an answer,
Which made it most difficult to tell her a
good lie, and stick to it. So the less he

saw of her whilst he remained in England,
he thought, the better, and he had already
concocted an excuse for pretending to go
into the country. He put up for the
night at one of his low haunts, and
despatched a dirty messenger for his
clothes in the morning. As (punctual to
his appointment) he walked up to the
shipping office to meet his employer, he
saw, already standing before it the handsome
barouche with its thoroughbred bay
steppes, that seemed like an earnest of
his own future success. As he entered
the office, which was crowded with clerks,
messengers, seamen, and passengers, Mr
Vansittart came forward and shook him
warmly by the hand,

Punctual to a minute,' he said, smiling ;
that's the proper way to do business. I
see that you and me will get on first-rate
together.'

The welcome raised Harland's spirits,
and drove away sundry fears and qualms
that had been lurking in his heart. Surely

the grim Fates were on his side at last.
His luck had turned, and the wheels of
life, greased by prosperity, would revolve
smoothly for the future. He answered
his friend's greeting with a light laugh,
and a debonair air, that made him appear
more charming than ever.

Mr Vansittart went to business at once,
and in a few minutes a first-class passenger
ticket for the Pandora was made out,
signed, paid for, and safely deposited in
Mr Harland's pocket-book. He had played
and won. London and its dark associations
seemed to be already fading from his
view, and New Zealand and a free life,
unburdened by cares or encumbrances,
was spreading out before him.
' And now, my boy ! Can I set you
down anywhere?' asked Mr Vansittart.
^ I am bound to call at my bankers, but
I will drive you to your destination first if
you desire it.'

Harland would greatly have liked to
show himself by the side of the millionaire

in his splendid equipage, but he knew it
would be safer not to do so, and so he
declined the offer. He had his private
reasons for wishing to keep quiet until he
was safely out of England. If some of his
friends got wind of his being hand and
glove with a wealthy man, it might be all
up with his dream of enfranchisement. So
he professed to have business in another
direction.

Thanks, Mr Vansittart, but I am running
down to Portsmouth to-day about that
little yacht of mine, and have promised to
wait here for a friend. Don't let me
detain you. When would you wish to seeme
again } '

When will you be back in town } '

To-morrow, at latest.'

Come up and dine with us then, at
seven, and we will discuss the arrangements
for the voyage — we have not too much
time. In ten days more we shall be
upon the sea.'

Thank God! ' ejaculated Harland, as the

carriage drove away. He waited about
for a minute or two, to make sure Mr
Vansittart would not return, and then prepared
to slink off in an opposite direction.
But as he passed through the swinging
door of the office into the street, he came
face to face with a man, who recognised
him without ceremony.

Hallo ! Cain,' he exclaimed loudly.
Who the d — 1 would have expected to
see you here ? I thought you were in
America.'

The speaker was a fine stalwart young
fellow, but evidently of a much lower standing
than Godfrey Harland. The latter was
taken completely by surprise, but had the
presence of mind to draw himself up stiffly,
and say, —

I beg your pardon, sir. I have not the
pleasure of knowing you,' and with that
he essayed to pass out. But the newcomer
was not to be put off so easily.

Not know fine ! ' he repeated. ' Where
are your eyes. I should have known you

five miles off. My name Is William Farrell
Have you forgotten old Starling, and the
row there was in the office when you left ? '

I repeat that I have not the honour of
your acquaintance,' rejoined Harland, reddening,
however, to the brows. ' Nor do I
know to what you refer. It is a case of
mistaken identity, sir, and as I am in a
hurry, perhaps you will kindly let me
pass on.'

But Will Farrell planted himself right
in the doorway.

'No! I'll be d— d If I will— not until
you have told me the truth. If you have
forgotten me, I remember j)/^^^ well enough,
^ Mr Horace Cain!

For God's sake, hold your tongue,
man,' cried Godfrey, thrown off his guard ;
or come with me where we can talk in
privacy.'

Ah ! I thought that would freshen your
memory,' said the other, with a harsh
laugh.

Harland did not know at first what todo.

He had recognised this man at once
as a former companion at the desk, and
his turning up at this inopportune moment
might prove the most unlucky move in
the world. At all risks he must be conciliated,
and kept quiet.

But Harland felt less ready with a lie
than usual. He, who was seldom without
one at the tip of his tongue, was cowed and
nervous by Farrell's allusion to the past,
and could hardly decide what to do, or
say. But in another moment his natural
aptitude for deceit had returned to him.

Of course, I remember you now, Farrell,
though I must confess that at first your
face did not seem familiar to me. It is
some years since we met, and you have
changed, as doubtless shave, too.'

It is to be hoped so,' interrupted Farrell,
with an unpleasant sneer.

But I am always glad to meet an old
acquaintance,' continued Godfrey, ignoring
the interruption. ' I shall be pleased to
have a talk with you over old times

There is a little place near here where they
know me. Will you walk round and have
something to drink ? '

But the bait did not seem to take.

I don't drink so early in the morning,*
replied Farrell ; ' besides, I have business
here.'

What is your business ? '

Well, I don't know that it concerns
you, but I have nothing to conceal. I am
going out to New Zealand in ih.^ Pandora,
on the 24th.'

The devil, you are ! ' cried Godfrey.
Why, we shall be fellow-passengers.'

How's that ? Do you sail in her too ?
Is the country getting too hot for you
again ? ' asked Farrell.

Not at all,' replied Harland, with assumed
dignity. ' I have come into some
money, and am travelling with friends for
my own pleasure.'

'Indeed! Swells, I suppose. What
class do you go ? '

First, of course.'

Well, I go second, of course, as I
pay for myself, so we shall not see much
of each other, thank goodness ! on the
voyage.'

That will not be my fault,' said Godfrey,
blandly, still nervously bent on his
efforts at conciliation.

But it will be mine if we do, returned
Farrell, fiercely. ' Look you here, Horace
Cain, I can see through your soft words
plain enough. You're afraid of me, as
you've got good cause to be, and it would

,have been all the better for you if you'd
told the truth when you first met me, and
not tried to sneak out of it by a lie.'

Do you threaten me, fellow ? ' exclaimed
Harland, forgetting his prudence
in his anger. ' I'll soon teach you the
difference between us.'

I don't need any teaching to see the
difference between an honest man and a
forger,' retorted Farrell.

How da7'e you?' cried Godfrey, white
with rage.

Won't I dare ? ' replied Farrell, with
an insolent laugh. ' Just you cross my
path, Mr Mr '-

Godfrey Harland, if you please,' interposed
the other, haughtily.

Oh ! that's the new name, is it ? ' continued
Farrell. * A very pretty one too.
Just like a novel. Well, it was about time
you dropped the other, Horace Cain!

Oh, cease this cursed nonsense,' cried
Harland. ' I don't want to quarrel with
you. Why should you quarrel with me ?
If any suspicion fell upon you for acts
for which I was responsible, it wasn't my
fault. And it's all past and over now.
Come, man, don't be sulky. Let us go
and drown the remembrance of it in a B,
and S.'

But Will Farrell hung backwards.

Perhaps you're right,' he said. ' It's
folly to quarrel over it at this time of the
day, but I can't drink at your expense all
the same. The business you speak of so
lightly spoiled my life and made me reck-vol.

I. • F

less. That mayn't seem much to you, but
it's everything to me. And I hope, if you
come across me on the voyage, that you
won't speak to me, Mr — Mr Garlands

We are not very Hkely to come across
one another,' replied Godfrey grandly. ' I
don't think the second-class passengers are
allowed beyond the quarter-deck. And
therefore you need not disquiet yourself on
that score.'

All the better for me,' quoth Farrell,
surlily, as he pushed past him to enter
the shipping office.

Godfrey Harland, as he strolled away
and thought over the interview, felt very
uncomfortable about it. It was an unlucky
star that had placed Will Farrell, of
all men in the world, on board the Pandora,
with himself. If he had only had the good
fortune to sail before or after him, he
need never have known he was in the
same country. He was almost tempted to
get up some illness on the part of himself
or a near relation as an excuse to change

his ticket and follow the Vansittart by
another vessel. But England was becoming
dangerous ground for him. The delay
of a fortnight might render him unable to
leave it at all. He stood between two
fires. He saw his creditors pressing on
him on one side, and Will Farrell denouncing
his past character on the other,
and he decided that Farrell was the least
dangerous enemy of the two. He had not
the same motive for betraying him. He
would gain nothing himself by raking up
the old scandal, and to hold his tongue
might prove a benefit to him. Harland
would occupy a good position in the new
country, and be able to help Farrell on.
The man would see that when he sat
down to reason calmly. And so he determined
to think as little of the unpleasant
contretemps as he might. Yet it haunted
him throughout the day, and made his
future look far less bright than it had done.
He was bound to encounter his wife, too,
that evening, and he wished the ordeal

was over. He had an excellent story to
tell her, but it required a large amount of
Dutch courage to go through with it. So
that Godfrey Harland had drank a great
deal more than was good for him when he
stumbled up the steps of his own house
that evening.

A WOLF IN sheep's CLOTHING.

RIS was looking forward to her
husband's return with an
amount of determination that
would have astonished any one who had
seen her only in her moments of nervous
prostration, when his insults and cruelty
had opened her eyes to the folly of which
she had been guilty in marrying him, at
the same time that she felt her utter
impotence to cope with the fate she had
brought on herself. But there are points
beyond which even the weakest will turn
to defend themselves, and such an era

had been reached in Iris Harland's Hfe
now. She had carefully thought over
the news which Mr Vansittart's letter to
her husband had revealed to her, and her
mind seemed suddenly to have grasped
the whole meaning of Godfrey's late
behaviour. He intended to desert her.
He had made these new friends, who
evidently believed him to be unmarried,
and he had concealed all his liabilities —
domestic and otherwise — from them, and
would in all probability accompany them
to this new world, and begin life over
again, leaving her to perish or to maintain
herself as best she could, so long
as he was quit of her. He had often
threatened so to leave her, but she had
never quite believed he would have the
cruelty to carry his threats into execution.
But now she did. Certain late outrages
in his treatment of her had made her
believe him capable of anything, even of
getting her out of his way, if she stood
in it. Mr Vansittart's letter said that

the Pandora sailed on the 24th. That
was only ten days off. Surely, If Godfrey
accepted the offer made to him, he would
give her some warning of his intentions.
At all events, she would wait and watch.
If he carried his cruel threats into effect,
she had made up her mind what to do.
But the means. How was she to obtain
the means to baffle her husband's scheme
to rid himself of her. The poor child
sat and thought with her head in her
hands all through the livelong day, without
having come to any solution of the riddle,
whilst Maggie hovered round her, dissolved
In tears, entreating her to have a
cup of tea, or to go to bed, or to tell
her what was on her mind. At last, as
the evening drew near, Iris heard her
husband's latch-key fumbling uncertainly
in the keyhole, and knew that he had
returned. Maggie heard the sound, too,
and recognised the reason. ' He's bin at It
agen,' she remarked, with a contemptuous
movement of her mouth, as she went to

open the door. Godfrey stumbled past
her, with an oath, into the Httle sitting-room,
where his wife was waiting to
receive him. He, too, was uncertain
what to say to her. He had resolved
to be led by circumstances. But he was
sure of one thing. He must get his way
by fair means, rather than by foul. His
object just now was conciliation all round,
until he had got clear out of England.
So the husband and wife met, at heart
belligerents, but outwardly calm, in order
to effect their several purposes.

Well, Children ! ' exclaimed Godfrey
thickly, using the soubriquet by which
he had nicknamed Iris in their courting
days, but which he had forgotten for
years past, ' I have come back, you see,
safe and sound, though I have been a
deuce of a time away. However, I
couldn't help it. Business detained me.
Have you been very dull alone ?'

Yes ; it has been rather dull, with
no one but Maggie to speak to. But

you know I am used to that. Now you
have come, Godfrey, I hope you are
going to stay.'

Well, my dear, to tell you the truth,
I'm not. The fact is, Children, we're ina
mess with regard to money matters,
and it's quite necessary I should lie
perdu for a week or two. I . met an
old chum of mine to-day in the city,
the skipper of a Harfleur packet, and
he's promised to smuggle me out of
England tomorrow morning, and I can
stay with some friends of his abroad until
Glendinning sets matters straight for me.'

But how can Mr Glendinning set
matters straight for you, Godfrey, without
paying your debts ? and where is
the money to come from ? ' demanded
Iris, with that uncomfortable penetrating
glance of hers.

He turned his eyes away. They never
had been able to stand hers.

Oh ! he'll raise some money for me,
and he'll pacify the rest of the creditors

with promises. Glendinning's a first-rate
fellow at that sort of thing. But he says
it is quite necessary I should be out of
England, until the business is completely
settled.'

I see,' said his wife, * and you must
go to-night and remain away. For how
long is it ? Ten days ? '

I said a fortnight, and it may be three
weeks,' replied Godfrey. 'It all depends
upon how Glendinning can manage things
for me. But one thing is certain — /
must go!

And how are we to live during your
absence?' asked Iris quietly.

Live I Why, as you generally do, I
suppose — on credit.'

That is quite impossible, Godfrey. I
do not object to your going, but you must
leave me some money to keep the wolf
from the door. The tradesmen will not
trust us with a single article. We have
even to pay for the milk as we take it in.'

That's awkward,' said Godfrey. ' Well,

give me some brandy and water, and I'll
think it over.'

A sudden idea flashed into the girl's
mind. She inst know the truth before
he left her that night, or she might never
know it at all. And so, instead of restraining
his over-indulgence as she was
usually called upon to do, she poured the
tumbler half full of brandy before she
added the water, and placed it by her
husband's side. The end, in her sight,
justified the means. She was resolved
to know the worst, and there seemed no
other way of forcing the knowledge from
him. The strong potion, added to what
he had already taken, soon had its effect,
but in a different manner from what Iris
had intended.

Godfrey Harland's character was of the
lowest type. He was obstinate, vicious,
and cruel. But he was also hot blooded,
and his hot nature not being under any sort
of control, made him a very ardent lover
when humoured, and equally dangerous

when opposed. To thwart him was to
rouse the temper of a fiend. To give in to
him was to deal with a brute. He was
fierce and unreasonable in his love — jealous
and revengeful in his hate — and selfish and
cunning in every phase of life. It was
hard to say in which mood his wife had
learned to dislike and fear him most, but
it was as much as her life was worth to
oppose him in either. Just now, as she
saw the fumes of the brandy had recalled
some of his softer feelings for her, she
resolved, if possible, to turn the fact to her
own advantage.

'that's good,' he said, as he drained the
tumbler. ' By Jove ! Children ! you're looking
very pretty to-night. Come here and
sit on my knee.'

Iris shuddered at the request, but she
complied with it. Nay, more, this wolf
in sheep's clothing smiled upon him as
she twined her fingers softly in the dark
curls of her husband's hair.

Won't you give me some money, Godfrey

? ' she murmured. ' You know that
I mtcsl have it. Just leave me enough to
go on with for a month, and I'll be
satisfied.'

Well ! how much do you want, you
jade?'

Twenty pounds ! ' said Iris boldly.

Twenty fiddlestick ! Why, I haven't
got twenty pence about me.'

Oh yes, you have ! ' she said, coaxingly.
' Just look, and you'll find it,
Godfrey. You couldn't go abroad without
some ready money, you know.'

He fumbled about in his pockets then,
and brought out the pile of notes and gold
which had been given him in exchange for
Mr Vansittart's cheque. Iris saw them, and
calculated their amount almost to a pound,
but she was too discreet to say so. Godfrey
separated a single bank-note from
the rest, and held it up to her, saying, —

Now, what am I do have instead of
it?'

What do you want, Godfrey ? '

Twenty kisses at the very least,' he
replied, devouring her beauty with his
amorous eyes. ' Now, put your pretty
arms round my neck, Children, and give me
the whole lot, or you shan't have a sixpence.'

How the woman loathed her task. How
she longed to tell this man, who had once
seemed as a god in her eyes, that she
hated and despised him for his cruelty and
infidelity to her, and that she refused to
degrade herself further at his command.
But the thought of her revenge upheld
her. ' Revenge is sweet,' says Byron,
especially to women.' The prospect of
it was sweet to Iris Harland at that
moment, and the thought of destitution
and starvation was sore, and so she stooped
over her half-drunken husband, and gave
him what he had asked for, slowly and deliberately,
as if she were performing some
painful expiation.

That's a good girl ! ' exclaimed Harland,
as her penance was concluded. ' And now
you shall have the money.'

She laid her hand eagerly upon four or
five of the bank-notes as he spoke —
crumpled them up in her hand — and thrust
the remainder into his breast pocket again.

That is a great deal too much to carry
about you, Godfrey,' she said, nervously.
You will be robbed if you don't take
care. And you will want it all at Harfleur,
you know.'

Oh, don't you be afraid, my girl ! ' he
exclaimed, in his intoxicated, boastful
manner, as he buttoned his coat over it.
'I'll take good care I'm not robbed. I'm
not the sort of man to be taken in easily.
You ought to know that by this time.'

Then he rose, and began staggering
about the room.

I must go,' he hiccupped, * because —
because my friend — my friend — will start
without me — unless I'm quick. Good-bye,
my dear. Don't — don't worry about me.
I'll be all right. Good-bye, Maggie — give
us a kiss.'

A kiss, you drunken brute ! ' cried the

handmaid, sans cdr^nionie. ' You'd better
try it on — that's all. It's something very
different from a kiss that I'd give you, if I
had my way.'

Hush ! hush ! Maggie,' entreated Iris,
as Harland stumbled through the passage,
and out at the front door. * Let him go,
for heaven's sake ! We shall have no
peace till he is gone.'

She walked straight into the bedroom,
and smoothed out the notes she still held
crumpled in her hand. There were five
of them for five pounds each — five-and-twenty
pounds. She believed, and yet
she was not quite sure, if they would be
sufficient for her purpose. But tomorrow
would decide. Before that time next day,
she would know everything. The idea
made her feverishly Impatient.

Maggie,' she cried, * lock up the door,
and let us go to bed. I have so much to do
tomorrow. I want to get all the rest I cans

But though she lay down, it was Impossible
to close her eyes, and the next

morning found Iris Harland tossing on her
uneasy couch, and longing for the hour to
arrive when her cruel doubts should be
satisfied one way or the other.

VOL. I.

TWO WOMEN S HEARTS.

HE man who aspires to outwit
a woman, gifted with the most
ordinary characteristics of her
sex, should get up very early in the
morning. His brain may be larger and
heavier than hers, but her instincts are
so keen, her wits so sharp, and she knows
so well how to draw an inference, that
in a game of finesse she has pieced the
puzzle and put it together before his
slower comprehension has arrived at the
conviction that there is anything to find
out at all. Godfrey Harland prided himself

the following day on the perfect
manner in which he had deceived his
wife. She believed him to be on his
way to Harfleur, and by the time she
expected to see him back again he would
be on his way to New Zealand and he
chuckled inwardly to remember that he
had not left a single clue to his destination
behind. It is true that he was very
much annoyed at discovering the loss of
his money, but he did not attribute it
to any manoeuvering on the part of his
wife. He knew that he had drank too
freely the night before, and had played
at cards after he left Iris, when he scarcely
knew if he had lost or won. But anyway,
he had enough coin left for his
purpose, and matters might have been
worse. And had it been all gone, he
would rather have applied to Mr Vansittart
for a further loan, than have returned
to look for it in the house at
Publico. He had cheated them there
nicely, he thought, with an idiotic, triumphant

chuckle. Iris believed him to be
crossing the Channel, and it would never
do to disturb her confidence by returning
home again. A second set of excuses
would not be swallowed so easily as the
first. And whilst the poor fool congratulated
himself thus, Iris was taking her
way, timidly, from the fear of meeting
him, but still determinately, to the offices
of Messrs Stern & Stales. It was a
novel scene in which she found herself.
The firm of Stern & Stales was one
of the largest in the metropolis. They
owned a large number of ships, besides
chartering others, so that it was not
an uncommon occurrence for seventy
vessels, all flying the house flag of the
company, to leave the docks for New
Zealand and the Colonies in the course
of a year. Their office was in Fen-church
Street. At the head of a flight
of broad stone steps, with iron railings,
was a large room in which a dozen
clerks sat scribbling away at their ledgers,

or poring over bills of lading, manifests,
and invoices. On the walls were ranged
half-models of the different vessels in
their employ, and nautical almanac
and advertisements were hung in conspicuous
positions. As Iris entered this
room on the morning in question, and
glanced nervously around her, two young
men started from their desks simultaneously
to ask her pleasure. She was
plainly dressed and closely veiled, but
her graceful figure and youthful appearance
attracted immediate attention, and
shipping clerks have their feelings.

What can I do for you, miss ? ' inquired
the elder of the two, shoving the
younger to one side.

I believe you have some ships going
to New Zealand shortly,' stammered Iris,
who was too shy to mention the Pandora
all at once. ' Can I see a list of the
passengers ? '

Certainly, miss. Four of our vessels
leave the docks next week. We have

the Hindustan, the Trevelyan, and the
Pandora, which all carry passengers.
Do you require a berth ? '

'Yes! — I think so,' replied Iris. 'That
is, I want to see the passenger list before
I decide.'

Very good, miss ! Samuels, hand me
down the passenger list of the HindttstaUy
Captain Davis. We have four saloon
berths vacant here you see, miss,
and three second. She will not carry
any steerage. This is a plan of the
vessel,' continued the clerk, unrolling a
sheet of parchment. * These after-cabin
berths — '

But Iris pushed it gently to one side.

I — I — think I would rather see the
passenger list of the Pandora she
said, with a blush that was visible
even through her veil, and the clerk,
with a wink at his neighbour, passed
the desired paper across the counter.

The Pandora has her full complement
of first-class passengers, so I'm

afraid you won't find anything to suit
you there, as there is only a second
cabin vacant, miss,' continued the clerk.
She carries steerage, but, of course,
that is no use to you

I don't know — I don't know,' replied
Iris, almost hysterically, as she
perused the passenger list of the Pandora,

In a moment her quick eye had caught
the names of Mr and Mrs Vansittart
and Miss Vansittart, and then travelled
to the bottom of the paper where that
of Mr Godfrey Harland was visibly inscribed.
She had expected it, and yet was
not prepared for it, and as it met her
sight and confirmed her fears, she gave
vent to a slight moan, and leant against
the counter for support.

Are you ill, miss ? Can I fetch you
a glass of water ? ' asked the young
man in attendance anxiously.

No, no ! I am quite well. It is
only the heat!' exclaimed Iris, as she
took up the list again to make sure she

had not been mistaken. ' I — I will take
a berth, please, in this vessel — the Pandora.'


^ There Is only a second-class vacant,
miss,' returned the clerk. ' We could
accommodate you better in the Hindustan,
which is quite as fine a ship.'

No, I prefer the Pandora, thank you.
What is the price of the berth } '

Twenty-five guineas, if you please.'
Iris placed the money on the counter,
with a sigh. She had imagined it
would be less. But if she sold the
dress off her back she felt that she
must go.

Thank you,' said the clerk, as he
received the money. ' What name shall
I book?'

Iris started. She had never thought
about changing her name, but in a moment
she saw the expediency of it. She was so
long, however, before she answered the
question, that the clerks looked at one
another, and stuck their tongues in their

cheeks, to intimate that this was a 'rum
go-miss

Douglas,' said Iris at length, in a
low voice.

There is your ticket, miss,' said the
booking-clerk, when he had filled in her
name. * You see there is a plan of the
cabin on the back. Your berth will be
No. 12, and the Pandora will probably
sail with the early tide on Wednesday
next, therefore it is advisable you should
be on board not later than six o'clock on
Tuesday evening.'

'Will — will — all the passengers (the
first-class passengers, I mean) go onboard
on Tuesday evening, too ? ' asked
Iris hesitatingly.

I expect so, miss. Most of them like
to settle down before nightfall, as there is
little assistance to be got when the ship's
starting.'

And might I — do you think — go onboard
a little earlier than the others ? — to
avoid the bustle and confusion, I mean.'

No ; I wouldn't do that, miss, if I
were you,' replied the clerk. ' Not that
they'd refuse to let you go aboard an hour
or so previously ; but they don't care to
see the passengers before six o'clock, when
they'll be all ready to receive you. I'd go
a little later, rather than sooner, if I were
you.'

Thank you,' replied Iris gently, as she
turned away.

Queer street, — eh ? ' said the clerk
rapidly to his companions, before he was
called to book by another customer.

Meanwhile Iris hurried homewards with
her ticket in her hand. It was all settled
then. She had cast the die. She was to
sail in the Pandora with Godfrey. But
she felt very nervous now it was done,
and uncertain if she had acted rightly.
She longed for a confidant to tell her
trouble and her intentions to, and she
found it, naturally, in Maggie, with whom
she had promised to be explicit.

Lor' ! mistress ! ' cried the latter, as she

opened the door to her, 'where on earth
have you been ? How dusty and hot you
do look. I began to think as you was lost

Come in here, Maggie, and I will tell
you all,' said Iris, as she passed into the
parlour.

Maggie shut the door carefully, and followed
her mistress, and stood beside her
chair, looking the very incarnation of dirt
and good humour.

Now, what is it, my pretty ? Nothing
new to vex you, I do hope.'

It is something very serious, Maggie.
Mr Harland told me last night that he
was going to France till his affairs were
settled, and he should be back again in a
few weeks. I find it is not true.'

Lor' ! that's no news. He's always a-
lying,' said Maggie.

He left a letter behind him, by which
I discovered he was thinking of going to
New Zealand. I have been to the 
this morning, and I saw his
name down in the passengers' list. He

sails on the 24th. Ke is going to desert
us, Maggie.'

What ! ' cried the servant ; * is he a-
going right across the sea, and leave you
here, without no money to buy bread or
anything ? '

Indeed he is, Maggie. Isn't it base of
him ? — isn't it cruel ? I wouldn't treat a
dog that depended on me as he has treated
me. What crime have I been guilty of,
to be punished in so inhuman a fashion .^ —
to be left to starve or to do worse ! Oh, my
God ! it is too hard, it is too bitterly hard ! '

And Iris broke down, and sobbed
with her face in her hands. When she
lifted her head again, Maggie was kneeling
at her feet.

Don't you cry, dear mistress,' she was
saying, in her rough manner ; ' you shall
never starve whilst I have two hands to
work for you. Don't you cry. Oh! I've
bin a bad gal. Sometimes I think I must
tell you all, but there — it wouldn't make
matters better, and it might make 'em

worse. For you lets me serve you now
(don't you, my pretty ?), and then you
oughtn't. But don't talk of starving, for
while I live, you shall never want for
bread and meat.'

It was silly of me, Maggie, to say such
a thing, for I can work as well as you,
though not perhaps in the same way, and
I would never eat your bread whilst I
could make my own. Thank you, my dear
girl, all the same, and I shall never forget
you have been a true, good friend to me.
But, Majestie, I have settled on another
plan. I will not be left here behind in
England. I am Mr Harland's wife, and I
have a right to be where he is. So when
I had made sure he was to sail in the
Pandora, I took a second-class berth in
the same vessel, and I shall go out to New
Zealand with him.'

Maggie leapt to her feet with surprise.

Lor', mistress ! you don't never mean
what you say } '

I do, Maggie. Why not ? Mr Har-land

gave me some money last night to
keep us whilst he was away, and I have
spent it on a ticket for the Pandora. It
cost a lot,' continued Iris, with a sigh, —
twenty-five guineas, and I have only a
few shillings left. But I couldn't help it.
I faust ofo with him.'

And what will you do when you gets
on board, mistress ? '

Oh ! I shan't discover myself to him
till we get to land, Maggie. He is going
first class with some rich friends, who
have given him an appointment out there,
and I don't want them to know about me.
But when we get to New Zealand, I shall
tell Mr Harland he must either take me
with him, or make me an allowance to live
on ; and if he refuses, I shall appeal to his
employers to see me righted. Why should
he make money, and I derive no benefit
from it ? I have suffered enough. Heaven
knows ! since I have married him, without
being cast off, as if I were some guilty
creature not fit to be his wife. I will not

stand It any longer. I have sworn that I
will not.'

Maggie had been listening to this tirade
with wide open, glistening eyes, and at its
close she threw herself prostrate on the
hearthrug.

And you will go away from England
to live across the sea and maybe never
come back again, and leave poor Maggie
here all alone. Oh, mistress I cannot
bear it. It will kill me if I don't go
too!'

My poor Maggie!' cried Iris, with
genuine distress. ' I never thought of
you. But what can I do ? I can only
just pay for my own passage and my
fare to Liverpool. It leaves me nothing
even to buy another dress.'

But what will become of you without
me ? ' wailed the woman. ' Do you know
what that brute will do when he finds
out you've tricked him ? He'll half kill you,
as he's tried to often and often in this
very room ; and you'd have been dead now,

if it hadn't been for me. I cant let you
go alone, mistress. You'll never come
back. He'll find some means of making
away with you out there.'

'Oh, Maggie! what can I do?' exclaimed
her mistress. * I should love to take you
with me — indeed, my troubles have been
so many I never thought what an additional
one parting with you would prove,
till you mentioned it to me. But how can
I raise the money, dear ? I have only
seven shillings left.'

*You shan't go alone,' said Maggie
fiercely ; ' I won't trust you with him
alone. I ain't fit to be your protector,
but I'm the only one you've got, and
it's the only way I can make upto
you for all the harm I've done
you.'

How strangely you talk, Maggie.
What harm have you ever done me ? '

*Ah, don't mind my chatter, dear; I'm
half crazy with grief and fear, and I don't
know what I'm saying. But you shan't

fall into that devil's clutches if I can save
you. Don't all this furniture belong to
you, mistress ? '

Yes, Maggie, such as it is, it is ours —
and we only have the rooms by the week.'

Well, mistress, I have a few shillings
saved out of my wages, and if you'll leave
it all to me, I'll manage it.'

But how, Maggie } ' demanded Iris.

I'll give Mrs Barton notice at once,
and move you out into other rooms on
Saturday, and then I'll get rid of the sticks
and things, and they'll pull us through.'

Oh, Maggie, they will never fetch more
than a few pounds at the outside. There
is hardly a sound piece of furniture amongst
them.'

Yes ! thanks to his tantrums. But
there will be enough for our purpose.
Mistress, you mist give in to me in this,
for if I steals the money I shall sail in
that ship with you. Oh, my dear, my dear !
Don't you know as I'd lay down my worthless
life to save you pain.'

VOL. I. H

And with that the two poor creatures
fell into each other's arms and wept.
They were as different to look at as light
from darkness, but they possessed one
great virtue in common, a true and genuine
woman's heart.

THE 'pandora:

^^l^pHE newly-appointed officers were
^g ^S o^^ board the Pandora. Abel
^^^4:5^^ Coffin was the name of the
chief officer. He was a short, broad built
man, with a bullet head and square shoulders.
Peeping out from beneath his bushy
brows were two small black eyes, which
winked and blinked, and were apparently
never at rest, except when in the arms
of Morpheus. His nose was inclined to
be celestial, broad and unshapely, and of
rather a rubicund tint that corresponded
with the tips of his large ears ; but whether

it arose from the free use of stimulants, or
the biting northerly winds of the Atlantic
Ocean, it was difficult to say. A strong
set of teeth, discoloured by tobacco, were
firmly set in his jaw, and covered by a pair
of thick lips. A profusion of coarse, wiry
hair encircled his face, to which the absence
of a moustache gave a dogged appearance.
There was a ponderous look altogether
about the man. He was not corpulent,
but his bones were large, and sinews took
the place of flesh. In point of fact, Abel
Coffin was exceedingly powerful, and capable
of enduring great fatigue. He was a
smart man, too ; the school in which he had
been reared being a severe one, but it had
turned him out every inch a sailor.

When quite a lad he had been apprenticed
by his father to a Bostonian, which
carried timber between Liverpool and the
States. In this old tub — which boasted
a jackass rig — which took two hands
to steer her in an ordinary seven-knot
breeze, and whose windmill pump was

always required to be kept upon the move,
Abel Coffin had gone in at the hawse
holes and out at the cabin windows. And
doubtless he would have remained in her
for ever had she not been so battered
about after she had jumped and thrashed
her way into a nasty cross sea, that, after
having been towed into the Mersey by
a compassionate tug, it was decided that
she should be broken up as unsafe to
make another trip across the 'duck pond.
So he had come up to London, and during
his wanderings about the docks in
search of an outward bounder, had encountered
the captain of the Pandora, and
on producing his tin case of mildewed
certificates and discharges, had been duly
installed as mate. He was a rough, generous,
and good-hearted fellow — a trifle
severe, but just and honest, and always
to be found at his post when duty required
it. On board the old wooden
barge he had been accustomed to hear
the orders bawled out, and usually accompanied

by foul oaths — his only companions
had been his mate and boatswain — and
his food coarse and unpalatable.

The vessel was badly manned ; all her
gear stiff and old-fashioned, and she required
a deal of handling. Her sails were
covered with geordie patches, and when
stowed were huddled to the yards in a
most ungainly fashion. Red rust was prevalent
from the want of paint, or rather
coal tar, and her decks were scratched and
dented, and had not been acquainted for
years with the carpenter's caulking irons
and mallet. In a stiff breeze she yawed
and capered about like a tipsy woman,
thumping heavily into the seas, and sending
banks of angry foam rushing from her
basin - shaped bows. She plunged and
groaned, compelling the skipper to watch
her very closely, as she rushed from her
course and then refused to come to, till the
wheel was hard down, and she had cracked
and strained her timbers and described the
letter S in her wake, and the weary helmsman's

arms ached with the amount of
labour she required.

To step from such a vessel as this on to
the deck of the Pandora was a new
experience in Abel Coffin's life, and he
appreciated it accordingly. The trim
passenger ship, fitted up with all the latest
improvements and designs — well manned
by strong able seamen — and provisioned
with a goodly supply of live stock and
fresh vegetables — was a rich feast for his
eyes, and to be her chief officer a stroke
of good luck he had never contemplated.
It was like leaving two squalid furnished
apartments to take up his quarters in a
first-class hotel, and though, as yet, not
quite at home in his new capacity, Abel
Coffin worked with his accustomed zealand
rather astonished the easy - going
seamen. It was the day before the
departure of the Pandora, and every one
on board was active. The last lighters
were alongside with their casks and cases,
and Jack Blythe was superintending

their stowage in the main hatchway.
The steward bustled about the decks,
attended by his satellites, carrying squeaking
fowls and quacking ducks to their
coops, which were lashed on top of the
house amidships. The black cook and
the butchers unmercifully dragged the unfortunate
sheep and pigs to their pens,
whilst able seamen were busy serving the
running gear, and coiling down the warps,
to be in readiness to heave out. Small
carts and drays waited on the wharf to
unload their cargoes of vegetables, cabin
stores, and ship's dry provisions, and porters,
with trucks of passengers' luggage, and
seamen's chests and baggage, with shell-backs,
runners, boarding - house keepers,
and gaily-dressed women, were all looking
out for some one or other, who was about
to sail in the Pandora. Confusion renowned
supreme. The decks were hampered with
coils of rope, tins of varnish, sails that
were to be bent and gear to be lashed or
stowed away, and in the midst of this

Babel, Mr Coffin was here, there, and
everywhere. Now on the poop slacking
away a barge's stern rope — then on the
quarter-deck signing a receipt — anon on
the top-gallant forecastle, heaving a pall
with the capstan, or making up a jib
ready to be sent out on to the boom.
Jack Blythe was not so active as his
superior. He was obliged to stow the
last cases and barrels very carefully in
the lower decks, so as to leave a passage
to the locker, in order that forty tons of
gunpowder might be taken aboard, and
placed there when the vessel reached the
hulks. The third mate was a nice-looking
youngster, who had just passed his second
officer's examination. His name was
Richard Sparkes. He was a tall lad, with
curly brown hair, an apology for a moustache,
and bright blue eyes. His duties
were confined to the passengers' stores,
the safety of the live stock, and the care of
the fresh water.

As the clock struck twelve work was

knocked off, and the youngest officer being
left in charge of the ship, the two elders
stepped on to the quay, and went to get
their mid-day meal.

Vernon Blythe walked to a small hotel,
in the bar window of which the landlord
had placed a placard to the effect, that he
had * Good accommodation for officers and
midshipmen.' There he sat down to a
table d'hote, and afterwards amused himself
with Lloyd's Skipping News, whilst
inhaling the fragrant bouquet of a well-coloured
pipe, and giving an occasional
thought to Alice Leyton's near arrival.

But where Mr Coffin disappeared toit
would be difficult to say. He was an
entirely different man from his second.
His habits, manners, and associates were
all rough and unpolished. He had been
born in a fishing village, and nurtured
among whalers, deep-sea fishers, and lime-juices.
He had never entered cultivated
society, consequently he was shy and reserved,
and when on shore sought out

such habitats as sailors of his stamp
usually frequent. He had looked with
astonishment, not unmixed with contempt,
at Jack Blythe's handsome and refined
features, close cropped hair, well kept
hands, and neat attire. He had already
set him down as a fair-weather sailor, and
a dandy, and doubted his ability in a time
of trouble. Before the voyage was over
Abel Coffin had acknowleged to himself
and Vernon Blythe that he was
wrong.

In the afternoon the busy throng that
waited on the quay, and the dock loafers
that hung about the shipping, gradually
cleared away, and at five o'clock the
hatches were battened down, and Mr
Coffin reported the Pandora ready for sea.
By the time the dinner-bell was sounded,
most of the passengers had arrived to
answer to its summons.

Jack Blythe had received the Leytons at
the head of the gangway. Mrs Leyton,
a fragile-looking woman, whose delicate

health had been the cause of her residing
in England for some years past, came first,
with her youngest born, a heavy child of
four years old, in her arms.

Give baby to me, Mrs Leyton,' cried
Jack, eagerly, as she came toiling along
the gangway. ' Why didn't you let one of
the sailors carry her. She is much too
heavy for you.'

She is so naughty,' sighed the poor
mother ; ' she will go to no one but myself.'

*Ah, you spoil her,' said Jack, as he
helped them both on deck.

It's more than she does me ! ' exclaimed
Alice's merry voice behind them.

Everybody spoils you, you monkey,'
replied her lover, as he turned to greet
her.

Well, did you think we had altered our
minds, and were never coming. Jack }
And how do you like me, now / have
come ? ' inquired Alice, consciously.

You look charming, as you always do,'
he answered.

Most men would have returned a more
enthusiastic reply, for Alice was looking
her very best. Robed in a yachting
costume of white serge, with gilt anchor
buttons, and a sailor's hat bound with
white ribbon, set coquettishly upon her
sunny curls, she ran a muck of the heart
of every son of Neptune who saw her
step upon the deck.

Well, it's something to get a compliment
out of you, Jack. '' All scraps thankfully
received." But come along and show
us our cabin, and help us to get straight.
I can't think how we are all going to get
into it.'

I wish I could obey your bidding, Alice,
but it's impossible,' replied Jack. ' I can't
stir from here. I'm on duty.*

A cloud came over Alice's fair face.

I don't believe it. You're looking out
for somebody else.'

You've hit it ! ' he exclaimed, with a
merry laugh. ' I am waiting for my other
girl.' And, at that moment, as if to confirm

his joking assertion, Mrs and Miss
Vansittart appeared.

Mr Sparkes,' Jack had just time to call
out, ' take these ladies into the saloon,
and tell the stewardess to show them
their cabin,' and then he turned away
to attend to the new comers. Alice
Leyton pouted visibly at what she considered
her lover's neglect ; but Mr
Richard Sparkes was so delightfully pleasant
and gallant, that she soon forgot all
about it.

Allow me,' said Vernon Blythe gracefully,
as he extended his hand for the
convenience of Mrs Vansittart.

Lor' ! thank you, sir, I'm sure ! ' exclaimed
the panting, good - humoured
woman, as she clawed hold of his arm
with her enormous fist. ' Moving is a
worry, and no mistake. However, thank
heaven ! it's for the last time. When I've
once got home, no one will tempt me back
again. Where are you, Grace ? Don't
tumble into the water, whatever you do.

It's a real risk of life to ask anyone to cross
such a narrow plank as that.'

Here I am, mamma — close behind you,'
replied Grace.

And the peril is over, for this time at
least,' observed Jack, as he helped her onto
the deck. Grace smiled upon him very
graciously. She was struck with his bright,
handsome face at first sight. If all the
officers of the Pandora were like this one
(she thought) the voyage might not pass
so tediously as she anticipated. Mr Vansittart
followed closely on the heels of his
wife and daughter, and Godfrey Harland,
who had been staying at their house for
the last few days, brought up the rear.
As the latter raised his head, and encountered
the honest eyes of the young
sailor looking straight into his, although
the glance was only instigated by a
natural curiosity, he turned his uneasily
away. These men had never met each
other before. They were not even aware
of each other's names, and yet they instinctively

felt a mutual dislike. Godfrey
put Vernon down at once as a conceited,
impertinent puppy — above his condition in
life — and likely to give trouble in case of
being roused. And Vernon mentally decided
that Godfrey was shifty, independence,
and a man to be avoided.

Nasty eyes,' he said to himself afterwards
; ' I wouldn't trust that fellow with
change for a sovereign. If there's any
play going on during the voyage, I shall
keep a sharp look out upon him.' But
at the moment he was compelled to be
all politeness.

Vansittart — stern cabins i and 2,' he
said, as he glanced at their tickets. ' If
you will take the ladies into the saloon,
sir, you will find the steward ready to
show you the way. Mr Godfrey Harland,
No. 14, your cabin is aft amongst the
gentlemen ; ' and with this Vernon Blythe
turned curtly away, and commenced to
give orders concerning the passengers'
baggage.

Godfrey Harland perceived his manner
towards him, and resolved to resent it.
I'll pay that puppy out for his impertinence
before many days are over,' he
thought, as he followed his employers to
the saloon. By seven o'clock the whole
party were seated at dinner. At the head
of the table sat Dr Lennard, who was
always in great request by all the ladies
on board. He had a very handsome
woman placed upon his right, to whom
he was paying the most deferential attention
; but he had soon entered into friendly
conversation with the Vansittartss and
Godfrey Harland, whose seats were all
near him. At the other end, in the
captain's chair, sat Mr Coffin, looking
strangely out of place amongst the pretty
girls and well-dressed men by whom he
was surrounded, and almost surly in his
nervousness, as he ladled out the soup
and carved the joints. Beside him was
seated the third officer, who had contrived,
for this evening at least, to secure a seat

VOL. I. I

next to Alice Leyton, whose pretty face,
merry laugh, and animated conversation
kept all the men round her in a state
of excitement ; and especially interested
a certain Captain Lovell, who could not
take his eyes off her. Yes, Alice could
laugh, and flirt, and enjoy herself, although
Vernon Blythe was not by her side, — not
even enjoying his dinner at the same
time. On the poop (or, as many sailors
call it, the ' knife-board '), he paced up
and down, keeping his watch till he
should be relieved from duty, now and
then glancing at the weather-vane, as if
expectant of a sudden shift of wind.

I say, what do you do that for ? '
inquired a voice near him, in drawling,
languid tones.

Jack looked round at the speaker, as
if he considered the question altogether
too silly to answer.

Is there anything up there ? ' continued
the new comer, indicating the weather-vane.




More than there is down here by a
good deal,' replied Jack, referring to the
stranger's brains.

But Harold Greenwood deserves a
chapter to himself.

MR GREENWOOD.

E was one of those wonderful
anomalies in coat and trousers,
at which we gaze curiously, as
we speculate to which sex they belong.
He had light flaxen hair, perceptibly
crimped with hot irons, pale blue eyes,
and small, dolly features. The suspicion
of a whitey-brown moustache on his upper
lip was like the down on an apple-tart.
His hands were fat, and short, and
white — almost dimpled — and laden with
women's rings. He was dressed in a tight
check suit, a brown felt hat, gaiters, and

patent-leather shoes. In his hand he
carried a small Malacca cane, which he
usually swung backwards and forwards,
while he stood with his legs well apart;
an eyeglass was stuck with so painful an
effort into his eye that it distorted his
features ; and he wore his hat a little to
one side, which was intended to give him
a rakish appearance. A gold chain of
great length and thickness was stretched
across his waistcoat. At one end of It
dangled his keys, at the other a button-hook.
From his breast-pocket peeped
out a pink silk handkerchief, placed therefor
ornament rather than use, and encircling
his throat was a white collar, so
high and so well starched that he was
frequently obliged to place his fingers
between the linen and the skin to prevent
his throttling.

Vernon Blythe looked down at this
mannikin with supreme contempt, not
unmixed with amusement.

I suppose you are an officer of

the ship — eh?' rejoined Mr Greenwood.


I suppose I am,' said Jack coolly.

Well, when shall we sail — eh ? Can
you tell me that ? '

By the first tide tomorrow morning.'

But when will the first tide be ? I'm
a passenger, you see, so I've a right to
know. Haven't I — eh ? My name is
Greenwood — Harold Greenwood. I have
one of the deck cabins.'

'Why don't you go down to your
dinner ? ' asked Jack, ignoring his queries.

Oh, because I dined before I came onboard.
Didn't know what I might get
here, don't you know ? Had dinner with
a friend, and a game at billiards. Oh,
by the way, have you a billiard-table onboard
? Awfully jolly game billiards,
don't you know ? ' and placing his hand
upon the pipe rail, whilst he used his
cane for a cue, Mr Greenwood commenced
pushing away at an imaginary
ball.

To this absurd question Jack Blythe
again vouchsafed no answer.

I say, do you like waltzing? — awfully
nice waltzing,' resumed the youth, commencing
to whistle, and dance round ina
circle with his cane for a partner. ' I
suppose we shall have a dance every
evening .^ I hear there are some devilish
pretty girls on board, and it will be our
duty to pay them some attention. We
shall miss the rides in the Row, and the
shooting awfully, don't you know ? ' he
went on, pretending his cane was a gun,
and levelling it at the maintopsail block ;
but we must make the best of it, and
a bit of flirtation ain't such bad fun on
a long voyage, don't you know .^^ It
passes the time, and it pleases the girls,
and so it does good all round, eh V

I should think you would be sure to do
them a lot of good. There's no doubt
at all about that,' replied Jack Blythe
gruffly, as he turned on his heel.

There could not have been a greater

contrast than between these two men. To
see them side by side was to doubt the
possibility of their belonging to the same
order of creation. Jack Blythe, strong,
healthy, and muscular, with arms and
hands that had been developed by manual
labour, and a fresh skin, which had been
bronzed by a tropical sun, and washed and
beaten by the salt sprays of the Atlantic
with manly and practical ideas, and a
wholesome horror of effeminacy and all
that pertains to a fop ; and Harold Greenwood,
with a milk-and-water complexion
and flabby muscles, — soft limbs, that stood
on a par with those of a woman, and
a head crammed with superficial ideas,
that showed the narrowness of his nature
and the absence of even an ordinary
amount of brain.

'Awfully jolly weather this, isn't it?'
continued Harold Greenwood, who was
too dense to take a rebuff unless it was
administered in the shape of a kick. * I
say, what time do they call a fella here

In the morning ? I should like to be upto
see the ship start. Do you think the
steward will remember to wake me ? '

I don't know,' returned Vernon
brusquely. * You had better ask him

yourself. And I wish the d 1 you

wouldn't whisk your stick about in that
absurd manner. You will put out my eye
in another minute.'

This last request, which was delivered
in a very angry tone of voice, startled
'Miss Nancy' altogether, and with a
muttered apology, and a half-frightened
look at the second officer, Mr Greenwood
hurried down the accommodation ladder,
thinking what very rude men sailors
seemed to be, whilst Jack continued to
keep his watch, and to smile to himself
whenever the sound of Alice's ringing
laughter was wafted upwards through the
open skylights of the saloon.

Meanwhile, in the second cabin some of
the passengers had sat down to tea, and
were discussing in lubber-like terms the

qualities and accommodation of the vessel,
whilst others were amusing themselves by
unpacking their chests and ranging the
necessary articles for the voyage in the
places assigned to them. They were a
large party, and there was much fun and
confusion amongst them, the dearth of
space in their sleeping cabins, and the
difficulty of finding room for their various
belongings, seeming to provoke more
laughter than vexation. Will Farrell
especially appeared to be enjoying himself.
He was excited at the idea of
leaving England and commencing a new
life in the bush, and having the opportunity
to shake off the suspicion which had
been wrongfully attached to him. He had
already made fast friends with a man
called Bob Perry, and was sitting at the
tea-table with him discussing subjects of
interest connected with New Zealand,
with which Perry had been for some years
familiar. It was at this juncture that
the second officer, from his watch on the

poop, saw a sailor run to the side to help
two more passengers over the gangway.
They were both women. The first one
stumbled, and came head foremost upon
deck, striking the gallant seaman who
waited to receive her a violent blow in the
chest, which he took with a roar of
laughter, in which several of his messmates
joined. The mirth and confusion seemed
to make the second passenger timid, for as
she stepped over the gangway she glanced
in a nervous manner from one end of the
vessel to the other, and whispered to her
companion, who in her turn communicated
her wishes in a very low voice to the sailor.
Second cabin, miss,' he replied aloud ;
'why, certainly. I'll show you the way.
Round this here corner, that's it, and
down them stairs. Take care. Turn
round, miss, and go down backwards, or
you'll come a cropper. Now you're safe,
and the cabin's just afore you. No
thanks, miss — no thanks,' and the sailor
went upon his own business.

Vernon, watching this little episode
from the elevation of the poop, could not
help wondering for a moment who this
second-class passenger could be, who
seemed so timid and shrinking, and unlike
the company in which she would find herself.
She appeared to be a lady travelling
with her maid, but what gentlewoman who
could afford to keep a servant would go
second class ? The mystery, slight as it
was, was sufficient to puzzle him, and keep
him thinking of the last arrivals until he
was relieved of his watch. Meanwhile
Iris Harland and Maggie had found their
way into the second cabin, where all
eyes greeted them with a prolonged
stare. Iris was terribly nervous — fearful
in each face to recognise that of her
husband ; and her companion was not
much better. However, there was no
need for alarm, and after a minute or
two, when they saw they were in the
midst of strangers, they recovered their
confidence. Maggie was the first to speak.

Can any of you gentlemen show us
the way to cabin number twelve ? ' she
asked, as, laden with parcels and bandboxes,
she pushed her way to the front.

Maggie was looking fresh and comely
that evening. She wore her best clothes,
and she had 'cleaned herself for the
occasion. Her dark hair and eyes
formed a vivid contrast to her rosy
cheeks ; and her wide mouth, with its
strong white teeth, looked sweet and
wholesome. Will Farrell was the first
man to answer her challenge.

'/ will!' he exclaimed, jumping up
from his seat. ' I sleep in number
eleven. Here it is, you see — next to
mine.'

Thank you kindly. 'Isn't for me ;
it's for this lady here. And now, how
are we to get our boxes down ? '

Where are they ? ' demanded Farrell.

On deck. There's two of 'em. A
black box, and a little blue one that's
mine.'

If they're not very large, I'll bring
them down for you.'

Oh ! you make nothing of them.
I'd carry them myself, except for those
plaguey stairs.'

Maggie,' remonstrated Iris, in a low
voice, ' we cannot trouble this gentleman.
Remember he is a stranger.'

Oh, no ! he ain't. Are you, sir ? No
one is strangers once they're on board
ship together.'

Of course not,' rejoined Farrell heartily,
and if it is the case, the sooner we're
friends the better. But won't you have a
cup of tea first ? Shall I tell the steward
to fetch you some ? Your friend looks
tired.'

She is tired, poor dear ! ' replied
Maggie, who had been warned to treat
Iris as her equal during the voyage.

I'll fetch it whilst you are taking off
your things,' replied Farrell, hastening
away.

Now, mistress, take off your hat and

veil,' whispered Maggie to Iris, as he
disappeared, * this place is stifling hot.'

Oh, Maggie ! I feel as I should never
dare to show my face in public'

Oh, but that's nonsense ! Besides,
there's no fear. He II be a deal too grand
to put his foot in the second cabin : you
may take your oath of that. And here
comes back this good fellow with the tea.'

Really, sir, you're very kind to us,'
said Maggie, as Farrell set two cups of
steaming tea before them, ' but / mustn't
drink any, you know. / ain't a second
classes. I'm only steerage, and I shouldn't
have intruded myself here at all, except to
see this lady safe to her cabin, because
she ain't used to roughing it, as I am.'

There's no harm in saying that she
continued, as a slight pinch from Iris
warned her not to go too far.

You are travelling in the steerage ! '
exclaimed Will Farrell ; ' I am sorry.'

Why so, sir ? It's good enough forme.
I'm not a duchess.'

No ! and I'm not a duke, and so I
think we should have been good company
for each other on the voyage, Miss
Maggie.'

Miss Greet, if you please, sir. I
don't hold to being called out of my
name.'

Miss Greet, then. However, the
steerage is not far off, and so I shall still
hope we may see a good deal of each
other.'

I don't know about that, but if you'll
turn your attention to my lady — I mean
to my friend here — and help her instead
of me, I should be ever so much more
obliged to you. I daresay I shall find
plenty of young men in the steerage —
they ain't a scarce commodity — but Mrs
I mean Miss Douglas, don't know
a soul here, and you can be all the use in
the world to her.'

Hush! hush ! Maggie,' pleaded Iris.

You just keep quiet, my dear, and let
me say what I choose.'

I shall be delighted to be of use to
both of you replied Farrell, who had not
failed to observe that Iris was a very pretty
woman ; ' and as an earnest of my goodwill,
I will go and bring down these boxes
at once.' And off he ran.

Now, ain't that a good sort ? ' cried
Maggie admiringly.

He seems so,' replied Iris. * But, Maggie,
I think I shall go to my berth at once.
I shall never feel safe until we are well
out to sea.'

All right, my dear. But here comes
that chap with the boxes. Let me just go
and see where he puts mine first, and
then I'll come back, if they'll let me, and
help you get to bed. Will you promise
me to sit here quiet till I come ? '

Yes,' said Iris mechanically, as she
took up a newspaper, and commenced to
read.

Many eyes were turned towards her
as she sat there, with her pale, beautiful
face half-shaded by the brim of her hat

VOL. I. K

and the thick veil, which was only partially
withdrawn ; and many conjectures
were raised as to why so young a
creature was going out to the new
country alone.

Perhaps it was the little drama he
had seen enacted on her arrival which
induced Vernon Blythe to pay a visit
to the second cabin that evening. Perhaps
it was the fate which stalks us all,
and pulls the strings of our lives as if
we were so many puppets, bound to
caper at its will. Anyway, when his
watch was relieved, he bent his steps
there, instead of going down to the
saloon. As he entered. Iris Harland
was sitting where Maggie had left herat
the end of the long table furthest
removed from the door ; and Vernon
Blythe stood on the threshold, and regarded
her for some minutes before she
was even aware of his presence. He had
not caught a single glimpse of the face
of the lady who had arrived so late, he

had scarcely seen the outlines of her
figure, and yet he felt sure that that was
she sitting under the swinging lamp
with her graceful form bent forward,
her eyes cast down upon the paper, and
one slim white hand resting on the table.
How strangely her appearance started
and affected him. He had never, to his
knowledge, seen her before, and yet his
heart almost stood still to look at her.
Who was she ? Where were her friends ?
What was she doing here alone, in an
atmosphere so evidently uncongenial to
her ? Jack Blythe had not been so many
years at sea without gaining a thorough
knowledge of the different classes of
passengers a vessel is accustomed to
carry. And this passenger, he could
tell from merely looking at her, was
out of her class and her own sphere
altogether. Could there be • any error
in the matter ? She seemed very shy,
and inexperienced. Was it possible she
had got into the wrong cabin by mistake ?

Jack determined to find out, and with that
view walked up to the further end of
the table. As Iris perceived that someone
was approaching her, she drew the
thick veil she wore right over her
features, and pretended still to be reading
through it, although it was impossible she
could decipher a word. Jack threw
himself into a seat near her, and whistled
a few bars of music carelessly, just to
show that he was completely at his ease.
Then after the pause of a minute, he
addressed her : —

I beg your pardon ! I hope that you
are comfortable, and have everything
you require. Things are apt to be a
little confused on starting, but I am one
of the officers of the ship, and if there
is anything I can do for you, you have
but to ask me.'

He paused for a reply, but it was
long in coming. Iris's thick veil did not
prevent her hearing, and the sound of
his young manly voice had struck on

her heart Hke a knell. She recognised
it at once, and even through her veil
she recognised him. She remembered
distinctly when she had heard that voice
last, — its earnest, passionate tones, — the
strangled agony in it on her refusal to
listen, — the sob with which he had turned
to leave her for ever! She had often
thought of that scene, and of her boyish
lover since then, — had often asked herself
whether she had not been a blind
fool to turn from his suit to listen to
that of Godfrey Harland, — had even wondered
if she should ever meet Vernon
Blythe again, and tell him she regretted
the pain which she had given him.
And here he was — in the very same
ship with herself, and speaking to her
in that unforgotten voice. At the first
blush, it seemed to Iris Harland as if
everything were lost. Her own voice
shook so in answering him that it would
have been hard for any one to recognise
it.

Thank you,' she said, In the lowest
possible tone, ' but there is nothing.'

Introductions are not supposed to be
necessary aboard ship,' continued Jack,
so I hope you will not think me forward
in asking your name.'

Miss Douglas.'

And mine is Vernon Blythe, at your
service he said, lifting his cap and
putting it on his head again. ' Are you
going out to Lyttleton ? '

Yes.'

You have friends there, perhaps ? '

'No.'

This answer puzzled him. What on
earth could so young a lady intend todo
in a strange country without friends '^.
He hazarded another conjecture.

You know the country then .^ — you
have been there before ? '

No, never ! ' replied Miss Douglas,
in the same agitated tones.

After this, Jack felt that he must ask
no more. She evidently did not wish

to be communicative, and further questioning
would devolve into impertinence.
He was wondering if he dared speak
to her again, when Maggie Greet rushed
back into the cabin, and up to her
mistress's side.

Now, my dear,' she cried, ^ I'm
going to put you to bed.'

'Yes, yes!' whispered Iris convulsively,
clinging to her, * take me away
at once — take me to bed.'

Maggie saw she was on the point of
breaking down, and looked round for the
cause. Her eyes fell on Vernon Blythe,
sheepishly watching them both.

What have you been a-saying to her ? '
she demanded curtly.

Nothing — nothing, Maggie ! ' sobbed
Iris.

I hope, indeed,' said Vernon, ' that
I have not offended Miss Douglas by
my offers of assistance. They were made
with the best intentions, I can assure
you.'

Yes, yes ! I know — ' gasped Iris ;
but I'm tired — and — and a little faint,
and I'd rather ^o to bed.'

She's overdone — that's where it is,
sir,' explained Maggie, as she cuddled
Iris's head to her bosom, 'and the sooner
she's asleep the better. Come along, m)'
pretty ! ' and she half led, half dragged
Iris into No. 12.

She went without even bidding Jack
a formal good-night. He felt a little
mortified when he thought of it, but,
after all, what was Miss Douglas to
him ? He rose up, and went whistling
out of the cabin as she disappeared ; but
he thought more than once of the mysterious
second-class passenger before they
met again,

Good-bye TO ENGLAND.

^^^^^HE sun shone brightly on the
5^1 M^ dark, turbid waters of the
(^4s^^^ Indian Docks, making the
binnacles sparkle like burnished gold,
under the influence of his rays. The
Blue Peter floated gaily at the fore royal
masthead of the Pandora, and all was
in readiness to receive the pilot. The
decks were cleared up, and the hatches
battened down. The anchors were hanging
in their tackles, the cables were overhauled
over the windlass and ranged
along: the deck, and innumerable lines

and warps were coiled down, all ready
to be paid out into the boat.

Punctual to time, a short, dark man
in blue uniform stepped aboard, and
having exchanged salutations with the
captain, took his place upon the bridge
and gave the order to ' Slack away
forrard,' and as the shell backs tramped
around the capstan aft, the Pandora
moved slowly away from the quay.

Then, after a great deal of shouting
of paying out warps, and hauling them
in — of encroaching upon the kindness
of the captains of other vessels by asking
them to ' make fast ' and ' let go,'
the Pandora reached the blockhead,
where she was slewed round, and a tug
caught hold of her hawser.

A small crowd of friends and relations
were here gathered together, anxious to
have a last look at those dear ones
who were going so far away, perhaps
never to return. Some were brave
enough to step aboard, and go down

as far as Gravesend, where the vessel
was to wait a couple of hours. But
others were detained by work or business
in London, and could not afford
to indulge their inclination. All had
time, however, while the Pandora slowly
crawled through the narrow entrance,
to whisper their last farewells — to implore
the travellers ' to be sure to write,'
and tell them all their news — to wish
them a prosperous voyage, and, above
all, to give them a warm grip of the
hand, or a parting kiss.

Ah ! these long uncertain partings are
very Death in Life. They have all the
agony of Death about them, and none
of its peace. They are the most cruel
trials this miserable world affords us !

When the vessel was clear of the
docks, and had glided into the broad
river, the helm was put to starboard, and
her head pointed eastward — then the
hawser gradually ' tightened ' as the
tug went ahead, and many of the passengers,

realising that they were really
off,' strained their eyes, brimming with
tears, towards the shore, and with a
choking sensation in their throats, waved
their handkerchiefs as a last farewell to
the friends they had left behind them.
But their emotion soon subsided as they
watched the lively scene spread out upon
all sides. It is those who stay at home
who feel parting most. The river was
alive with barges, which had taken advantage
of the wind to stem the tide.
Large passenger steamers took their
way carefully amongst the smaller craft,
and channel and river boats plied
fussily backwards and forwards, with
groaning deck loads of gaily-dressed pleasure
seekers.

Large wooden ships lay moored to
the buoys, discharging blue casks of petroleum,
and in their wake writers and
colliers were similarly employed. Trinity
boats, with their decks crowded with
red and white buoys, had made fast

under the shears, and innumerable tugs,
and ferry boats, and watermen were waiting
for something to 'turn up.'

At two o'clock Gravesend was reached,
where dozens of vessels had come to a
standstill, and half-an-hour afterwards the
Pandora was brought up and moored
to a buoy close to the red powder-hulks,
with her burgee flying at the
masthead.

The powder having been brought
alongside in lighters, laden with small
wooden tubs, a double line of men
was ranged from the port to the locker,
and the kegs quickly passed along.

Whilst the powder was being taken
in, a boat pulled by four men approached
the vessel. In her stern were seated
the coxswain, and another man who
was evidently a passenger. When she
reached the Pandora s side the gangway
was lowered, and the mysterious
stranger who had chosen this late hour
to arrive, ascended the ladder.

He was a tall, dark man with curly
hair, and a heavy moustache, which
joined a pair of mutton-chop whiskers.
His face was much lined, and there was
a haggard look beneath his keen grey
eyes. He wore a soft felt slouch hat,
a black morning coat, and loose trousers.
His baggage apparently consisted of a
large portmanteau, which was carried up
by one of the sailors, and tumbled onto
the deck.

'What name?' inquired Mr Sparkes,
who waited at the head of the gangway
to receive him.

I wish to see the captain,* was the
stranger's only answer.

You will find him on the bridge,'
said Richard Sparkes, and without
another word the new-comer hastily
mounted the companion, and confronted
the skipper.

Captain Robarts ? ' he inquired briefly.

The same, sir,' replied the captain.
What is your business ? '

There is my card,' returned the other,
producing it.

Oh, yes ! of course,' said Captain
Robarts, as he looked at the card ; ' very
pleased to see you, Mr Fowler, and if
you will ask the steward, he will show
you your berth.'

During this short colloquy, the passengers
assembled on the deck eyed
the new - comer curiously, and many
were the speculations raised concerning
him.

Who can he be, Captain Lovell ? '
asked Alice Leyton, who had become
quite friendly with the gentleman in
question.

I should say he had come to take
charge of the powder,' replied Lovell.
He is evidently going to remain, as he
has brought his luggage.'

Perhaps he is (what Jack calls) a
supercargo,' suggested Alice.

No, Miss Leyton, they don't have
such things now-a-days, although the

highly-favoured individual whom you call
'jack" may have told you so.'

'Jack is likely to know best, though,
all the same, because he is a sailor,'
cried Alice merrily. ' But do you really
think. Captain Lovell,' she continued,
opening her blue eyes, ' that there is
any danger from the gunpowder ? '

Not unless the ship catches fire, and
then we should be blown to "smithereens."
I daresay if we had any one onboard
evilly disposed to the rest of us,
he could, with very little trouble, put
an end to our existence.'

But he would blow himself up at the
same time,' said Alice.

True ; but in such coinpmty,' replied
Lovell, looking ineffable things at hera
fellow might even feel glad to be
blown up.'

Don't let us talk of such horrible
things, Captain Lovell, and when we
have not yet commenced the voyage.
Do you see that lady talking to the

gentleman who is leaning against the
rail ? She is a Miss Vere. She is an
actress, and is going all through Australia
and New Zealand.'

By George ! Is that really Miss
Vere ? ' said Captain Lovell, putting up
his eyeglass. ' I really didn't recognise
her off the stage. She ought to be good
company. She's very clever.'

Don't you think she is very handsome
.^ '

Perhaps. But she's not my style
replied the captain, glancing at Alice's
fair hair.

'Would you like to be introduced to
her ?'" continued the girl. 'I made her
acquaintance last night, and found her
most agreeable. Will you come with
me, and talk to her ? '

Delighted to follow you anywhere,'
said Lovell gallantly, as he walked after
his lively companion.

Vernon Blythe, who was close at
hand, saw the little incident, and only

VOL. I. L

smiled at it. He was not the man to
suspect any woman whom he professed
to love, without good cause. And when
he was assured of her infidelity to him,
he would be silent on the subject. He
might leave her, but his pride would
forbid him to complain because she
preferred another fellow to himself. But
he did not doubt at that moment that
Alice loved him, and, believing so,
he allowed her to do just as she
chose.

Miss Vere,' she exclaimed, as she
came up to the lady in question, ' may I
introduce one of our fellow-passengers to
you — Captain Lovell — who is longing to
make your acquaintance ? '

Miss Vere bowed, and the two immediately
engaged in conversation.

Emily Vere was a high-class society
actress, who had appeared that season at a
leading London theatre, and taken the
town by storm. Now, she was going
oat to make the tour of Australia?

o

tempted thereto by exceptionally high
terms, and the promise of an efficient
company to support her on the other
side. In appearance, she was more
charming perhaps than handsome, but
her figure was perfect, and her manners
courteous and refined. She was one of
those artists who give the lie pointblank
to those libellers who say that virtue
does not exist upon the stage, and who
(if the truth were known) have not kept
their own lives nearly so clean as that
of many an actress. Miss Vere's character
had never been attacked, except
by those who knew nothing about it.
She was essentially a lady, and one of
rather reserved and quiet habits than
otherwise. She was dressed plainly, butin
exquisite taste. Her grey cashmere
dress showed off each curve of her
beautiful figure, and seemed to cling lovingly
about her full bosom and slender
waist. Her long plush mantle was of
the same delicate tint, and a grey straw

hat, trimmed with seagulls' wings, and
long grey chevrette gloves, completed her
costume. She smiled pleasantly as she
recognised her little acquaintance of the
night before, but did not evince any
especial emotion on being introduced to
Captain Lovell, which, for the moment,
rather staggered that hero.

So proud to know you,' he murmured,
as the introduction was effected ;
so charmed to meet one whom I, in common
with all who have had the great
privilege of seeing her upon the stage,
cannot fail to admire.'

How long did it take you to get
that up ? ' asked Miss Vere quietly.
Seriously, Captain Lovell, I hope I am
going to be spared listening to empty
compliments for a while. I am so very
very tired of them, and I want to make
this voyage a time of rest for both mind
and body.'

But I can assure you I had no intention
to flatter,' stammered Lovell.

Then you cannot know what your
intentions are, and consequently must
be a very dangerous acquaintance. He
can't get out of it any way, can he,
Miss Leyton ? '

I think most people would find it
loss of time to cross swords with you,
Miss Vere,' said Alice.

Indeed I am a very peaceable person
by nature. But some things put
one on one's metal ; and you must understand,
Captain Lovell, that the last
person I care to talk about, is myself.'


Which makes you so unlike other
women, that the first person we all
want to talk about is you. Ah ! Miss
Yere, you must not be so hard upon
me. I have seen you play at the
"Star" Theatre dozens of times, and
left my heart behind me on every occasion.'


Dear me ! what a number of hearts
you must possess. You are quite a natural

curiosity. I hope you did not part
with your brains at the same time.'

'You think I have none to spare, I
suppose ? '

Not quite that, but we shall want
all we can scrape together, to make
this long voyage pass pleasantly. Have
you mapped out any plan of employment
for the next three months, Miss
Leyton ? '

Alice blushed most becomingly.

I haven't thought of it yet. I suppose
when we shake down, we shall
have plenty of music and dancing, and — '

'Flirtation,' continued Miss Vere.

'Well, a little of that, too, I suppose.'

'A great deal, I hope,' amended the
captain ; ' life would be worth very little
without it.'

Yes ! when it's legitimate, it's very
nice,' said Miss Vere ; ' but, for my part,
I mean to flirt with my books. I have
promised myself a long course of study
before we arrive at Lyttleton.'

Oh, look, Miss Vere,' cried Alice,
they are slipping the warp ! I believe
we are really going at last. Are we
off, Jack ? ' she asked excitedly of
Vernon Blythe, who passed them at that
moment.

He only gave her a nod and a smile
in answer, but the action did not pass
unperceived by Captain Lovell. However,
he made no comment on it then.

It's about time we were off,' he
grumbled ; * they've been three hours
shipping those confounded kegs of gunpowder.'


That are to blow us all up,' said
Alice merrily.

As the Pandora moved stately down
the river, a cold wind began to blow
over the water, that drove the ladies to
the shelter of the saloon, and left the
gentlemen in possession of the deck
and the smoking-room.

Vernon Blythe had found time more
than once that day, in the midst of his

active duties, to glance round the decks
in search of Miss Douglas, but he had
seen her nowhere, which, as they were
still in fresh water, seemed rather strange
to him. But perhaps she was very unhappy
at leaving home, and could not
trust herself in public. Godfrey Har-land,
on the other hand, had made
himself generally conspicuous by his
attentions to Mrs and Miss Vansittart,
and the more Jack saw of him, the
more he disliked him. His handsome
face was knitted into a frown even
now, as in the pursuit of his duty he
passed Harland leaning over the bulwarks,
and watching the lights of Gravesend
gradually receding from view, as
the vessel was towed towards the bend.
Could Vernon Blythe have read the
thoughts which were passing through
Harland's mind at that moment, he
would have pitied, as much as he despised
him. For no one is to be pitied more
than the man who casts an honest love

on one side, In order to pursue, with
unfettered hands, the phantom Fortune.
He was thinking then of Iris. He had
gained his object. The prize he had unlawfully
striven for was in his hand. Ina
few more hours, miles of water would
stretch between him and his domestic
cares and troubles. Yet he was not
elated with his good luck. His last
thoughts, as he saw his country fading
from his sight, were given to his deserted
home and wife. What would Iris do
when she found he did not return ?
Would she inform the police, and would
they trace him to the shipping office ?
What a fool he was not to have sailed
under another name ! He might have
thought of some excuse to satisfy the simple
Vansittartss, and put himself for ever out
of the clutches of his pursuers. But it
was too late to think of that now. Still
he did not believe it possible that Iris
would betray him. She had always been
an honest, generous, stout-hearted little

woman, and he had more faith in her than
in himself; but she was passionate and
determined, and others might advise her
to take the law into her own hand. How
could he possibly prevent such a catastrophe
? Bright thought ! The sea pilot
who had come aboard at Gravesend would
land at the Start. He would send a 
letter to his wife by him,
explaining that on account of being unable
to meet some heavy losses at the Newcastle
Meeting, he had been compelled to
leave England, and finding Harfleur was
too near for him, was on his way to Spain,
under an assumed name, whence he intended
to get across to the Brazils, where
he had been promised employment. This
would put her off the idea (if she had any)
of applying to the police for his whereabouts,
and he could wind up his letter
with a few vague promises of sending her
money as soon as he landed in Brazil.

That would do capitally, and set his
mind completely at rest upon the matter.

There was only one little flaw in the plan,
and that was a vision of the pale face of
the girl he had deserted, and which would
rise before him, becoming plainer and
plainer as the night fell. There is good
as well as evil in the lives of all of us, and
this was a STOod moment in the life of
Godfrey Harland. There was a time
when he had loved his young wife — with a
selfish and worthless affection, it is true,
but still the best his nature was capable of
conceiving ; and his conscience raked up
the remembrance of this affection, now,
with his own misdeeds. Again and again
did the thought of Iris come into his head,
until he felt almost remorseful. He tried
to drive the unwelcome memory away.
He left his position and paced the deck
with rapid steps, but his deserted wife
seemed to walk beside him. He lit a
cheroot and nearly choked himself with
its strong fumes ; still some one seemed
to whisper in his ear that he was committing
a crime, — that he was a liar — a

coward — everything that was base and
cruel, — and that if Iris died of starvation
during his absence, or sold her honour in
exchange for bread, he would be worse —
the murderer of both her body and her
soul ! And then the same voice seemed
to tell him, as if by inspiration, that he
would never return to England, — that
some catastrophe would befall the ship
that carried him, — she would be blown up
by the powder, or lost at sea, and he was
leaving his wife and his creditors behind
him —-for ever. The thought made his
cheeks grow ghastly pale. It was a
warning — a prophecy ! Why should he
not save himself from its fulfilment ?
There was still time to do so. It was
nearly dark ; he could just make out the
green light at the end of Southend Pier.
The tide was low. Why not drop overboard
and swim ? The distance was nota
mile, and he was an excellent swimmer.

But no. He would be seen and picked
up, and treated on board as if he were a

lunatic. The Vansittart would not know
what to make of his conduct, and he
might lose all the influence he had gained
aver them. The game was too risky.
It would certainly not succeed. And if
it did, what would he go back to ?
Poverty, tears, coldness, and certain
arrest. Pshaw ! what a fool he was.
What had he been thinking of? His
good angel flew away, and a spirit of a
very different type took its place, and
Godfrey Harland was himself ao^ain. The
soft moment had passed, and it left him
harder than before.

What have I to do with others ? ' he
thought, as he buttoned his coat across
his chest ; ' my business at present is to
look after number one. He wants enough
looking after, poor devil. Heaven knows !
I am on the highroad to fortune. Let
me direct all my energies to seeing I keep
there. And if things go as I wish them,
why I'll turn my back on England forevermore,
and all my dear friends there

Driven to Bay.

may whistle for me.' So having arrived
at this comfortable decision, Harland
crossed the quarter-deck, and, after swallowing
a stiff brandy-and-soda, joined the
other gentlemen at a game of poker.

A DISCOVERY.

^^^^pHE Pandora was a full-rigged,
three-masted ship, built by the
famous firm of Oswald & Company,
of Glasgow and Sunderland. Her
registered tonnage was 1500 tons. Her
hull, lower masts, topmasts, and lower
yards were built completely of iron, and
her standing rigging was composed of the
same material. She carried six sails on
her fore and mizen masts respectively,
and seven on her main. She had six
topsails, six topgallant sails, and a main
skipsail. She was a heavy ship to

work, as nearly all her running rigging
was of chain, or wire, except the hauling
part, and the larger ropes, such as the
topsail halliards that were of coir, and
brought forth many an expressive epithet
from the sailors, whose hands were often
sore after a night in the doldrums. The
beautiful rake of her lofty masts, the
delicate curve of her narrow beam, her
sharp, fish-like bows, and nicely-rounded
stern, gave her a stately appearance as
she rode on the waters, and suggested
exciting races in heavy squalls, and a fast
sea passage, with little pay to receive.
Yet she was not an exceedingly fast
ship. She had made the run in ninety
days, and her log had told sixteen knots ;
but, all the same, she was a clipper, and
if she had had an enterprising captain,
would have held her own with most ships,
and shown her heels to not a few. But
the commander of the Pandora did not
believe in *cracking-on,' and his vessel
had never had a chance of showing her

ability. As soon as a squall appeared
to windward, he clewed up his smaller
sails, and would not dream of bumping
with crowded sail into a head sea if the
least sign of danger attended him. In
this respect he was right, since his first
thought was ever for the safety of his
passengers and crew.

There is intense pleasure as well as
excitement in sailing with a jolly, straightforward,
fearless man, who knows exactly
how much sail his vessel can carry till
the last minute, who drives through the
squalls, sending the seas dashing over his
weather bulwarks, and gushing through
his lee scuppers, shivering his leeches
when an extra gust bursts upon him,
glorying to watch the splendid behaviour
of his ship as she bends to his command.
But Captain Robarts was a very different
sort of man from this.

It had been the intention of the pilot
who had taken over charge of the Pandora
at Gravesend to have come to an anchor

VOL. I. M

off Southend, but as the breeze chopped
round to the southward, and seemed Hkely
to remain for some time in that direction,
the vessel continued her course. The
fore and aft sails were run up, and the
topsails loosed, and before ten o'clock the
More Light was passed, and she was
towed out into the open sea. All that
night the two vessels pursued their journey
together, and early the next morning
brought up with a head-wind in the
Downs. Some of the passengers had
already succumbed to the long, steady
roll of the Pandora, as she swayed from
side to side, sometimes dipping her martingale
deep into the swells, and rising
gracefully again before making another
plunge. The smell of the new paint and
varnish, the ' swash ' of the water as it
rushed against the sides of the ship, the
swinging of the trays and lamps that
were suspended to a brass rod, no less
than the long sweeping rock of their new
cradle, all combined to produce a queer

sensation in their throats, which gave
them a difficulty in swallowing, and a
dizziness in their heads, which prevented
their walking about lest their unseaworthy
legs should bring them to the ground.
But the captain of the Pandora steadily
paced the weather side, heedless of the
groans of his unfortunate passengers, and
thinking only of the wind that had compelled
the pilot to drop the anchor in
that unlucky hour. Uneasily he moved
to and fro, occasionally giving vent to
an unmusical grunt, as his eyes roved
along the horizon, and over the South
Foreland and Walter Castle.

Captain Robarts was a man of stunted
growth of much the same build as his
chief officer, but both broader and shorter.
His figure approached insignificance, and
his features were coarse and forbidding.
His hands, horny from manual^labour and
hairy and freckled from exposure, were
generally carried well down in the pockets
of his monkey-jacket, from which he

seldom extricated them. He was a good
navigator and a diligent officer, but he was
not a smart sailor. Had his duties
required activity, he would have failed in
fulfilling them, but as his sole work was
to prick out the chart and give his orders,
little fault could be found with him on
that score. In manner he was voted on
all sides to be a bear. He never
addressed his passengers except when
absolutely obliged to do so, confining his
conversation to the officers of the vessel ;
and if any lady or gentleman ventured to
ask him a question on the most ordinary
subject, his answer was generally conveyed
by a low grunt, as he turned away
to the sacred precincts of the bridge,
where none but those on business were
allowed to follow him.

He professed to be a very religious
man, and was in the habit of sending the
steward round with a bundle of tracts for
distribution, in the hopes thereby of
counteracting the evil influence of flirtation

and yellow-backed novels. He
objected strongly to the use of tobacco,
and, in fact, to every sort of indulgence in
^vhich he took no pleasure himself. But
he was very partial to his glass of grog,
and a cask of choice pine-apple rum was
kept in the spirit-room expressly for his
use. Every evening before he turned in,
the steward brought the captain a glass
of his favourite mixture, and during stiff
gales and wintry nights he often drank a
little more than was good for him, as was
evidenced by a glowing blush at the end
of his nose. His orders were given in
an abrupt, gruff voice — indeed he was at
all times a man of few words, and often
directed the helmsman by the action of
his hands ; and at the dinner-table he sat
like a dummy in his chair of office,
leaving the steward to look after the
wants of the passengers. That afternoon
Captain Robarts continued his silent
constitutional until the dinner-bell rang,
and then dived below to take the edge

off his appetite ; and while the saloon
dinner was going on, Vernon Blythe
took his station on the look-out. He
had not been there long before a
dilapidated figure staggered, with uncertain
footsteps, to the spare hencoops,
which were lashed on either side, and
mournfully sat down. It was the shade
of Harold Greenwood, but what a contrast
to his debonair appearance of the
morning. His face was ashen pale, and
the corners of his mouth drawn down.
There was a melancholy look about his
eyes, and his crimped hair, now straight
as a Skye terriers, hung down upon his
forehead. He wore his hat upon the back
of his head, and he had left his Malacca
cane below. One end of his watch-chain,
with the button-hook attached to it,
dangled in front of him, in place of his
eyeglass, which had been smashed when
the treacherous ship gave a heavy roll,
and threw him against the bulkhead,
and the pink silk handkerchief was fast

J

losing its festive appearance under its
frequent calls to duty to wipe its owner's
mouth. A smile crossed Jack's face ashe
caught sight of the unhappy youth,
and approaching him, he said kindly, —

If you don't feel well, Mr Greenwood,
you had better go to the lee side
of the vessel. You mustn't stay here.'

Oh! I'm quite well, thank you. I'm
used to this sort of thing, don't you
know '^, ' replied Greenwood quickly. ' But
it's doosid hot in the saloon, and I feel
a little queer, don't you know ? It's that
new paint, and — '

I quite understand,' said Blythe ; ' but
you'll soon get used to it.'

Oh ! I am used to it — have been all
my life — you know. But, I say, do you
think she will roll any more than she's
doing at present ? For it's really very
uncomfortable. I suppose the captain did
not expect to have had such bad weather
when he started.'

Bad weather !' exclaimed Jack, 'why.

my dear fellow, you don't know what
you're talking about. This is splendid
weather. A fresh head wind and a heavy
around swell ! We couldn't have had it
better if it had been made to order.'

Oh ! — I see,' groaned Mr Greenwood.
Well, if this is good weather, I hope it
won't get any better, that's all. I think
I will take your advice, Mr Blythe, and
go over to the lee side, if you will tell me
where it is.'

'Why, it's the other side, of course,'
replied Jack good-humouredly ; 'and I'd
put my head a little over the taffrail,
if I were you, and take a good look at
the fishes. I am sure you will feel the
better for it afterwards.'

Do you really '^ ' said Greenwood, with
open eyes. ' Well, you ought to know,
so I will try it. Not that I feel ill, Mr
Blythe, for I enjoy this sort of thing uncommonly,
only I think the other side
looks more comfortable than this. There's
so much wind here, it makes me quite

giddy.' And so, by dint of clutching the
pigtail of the mizen-mast, and making a
dart for the rigging, the unhappy youth
managed to reach the opposite coop in
safety.

When Jack turned his head again to
look at him, he saw that he had taken
his advice, and hung his head well over
the taffrail, where he appeared to be looking
for something in the water, with his
mouth wide open, and his eyes full of
tears. Jack laughed till the tears came
into his own, to see the little boastful
dandy thus hung out to dry.

In the second cabin and steerage the
passengers were suffering the same tortures
as their wealthier fellow-voyagers
in the saloon. They had not to contend
against the horrors of new paint and
varnish, for their bulkheads were built of
plain white wood, but their proximity to
the cargo in the lower hold and the
'tween-decks rendered the creaking and
groaning of the heavy merchandise very

audible, and rendered it difficult for them
to forget their troubles in sleep. Will
Farrell, who was not subject to mal-center,
was untiring in his endeavours to
help those who had succumbed to it. He
did not forget Maggie in the steerage,
and between 'chaffing' and feeding, he
soon managed to bring her round again.
The poor girl had been very ill at first,
but she was a stout-hearted little woman,
and when she heard that her mistress was
much worse than herself, and steadily refused
to take either medicine or food, she
made a strenuous effort to go to her assistance,
and she succeeded. She found
Iris nearly prostrate, and broken down
in mind and body. She was exhausted
by sickness, but had resolutely refused
to see the doctor, lest by some means he
might find out who she was. The fact
is, the poor child was quite ready to lie
down and die. She would have been
thankful not to get up again. There
seemed nothing left for her to live for.

The excitement of getting ready to follow
her husband was over. Nothing remained
now but a constant dread of detection, and
when the terrible sea-sickness came to try
her physical powers, all attempt at resistance
seemed to abandon her, and she
sunk under it. Maggie found her with
a stone-cold body, and a pulse at its
lowest ebb. The passengers were all
alarmed about her, but she had steadily
declined their proffered kindnesses, and,
above all, she would not let Dr Lennard
be informed of her condition. But when
Maggie saw her, she asked no one's
leave, but went to find him at once. As
she emerged from the cabin, with the
tears running down her cheeks, she met
Vernon Blythe.

Why ! what's the matter ? ' he inquired,
with a true sailor's ready interest
in every woman, high or low.

Oh, please, sir ! can you tell me whereto
find the doctor ? My poor, dear lady
is so ill.'

Your lady I Let me see. Are you
not the person who came on board with
Miss Douglas ?'

Yes, sir, and she is so bad with the
sickness. She's as cold as ice, and can
hardly move a limb. And I've been sick
myself till now, and ain't half right yet, or
I'd have fetched the doctor to her before.
But he must come now, sir, as quick as he
can, for the poor dear is just as bad as
she can be.'

I will fetch him for her at once ! ' exclaimed
Jack, who had not forgotten his
strange interest in the mysterious second
class passenger.

In another minute he had unearthed
Dr Lennard from the smoking-room,
where he was playing chess with the
third officer, and carried him off to
his patient. As they entered the
cabin together, Maggie had disappeared
to take up her watch beside Iris's
berth.

'Which is Miss Douglas's berth?' inquired

the doctor, addressing the assembled
company.

Number twelve,' replied Farrell eagerly.

This is it, doctor,' said Jack, as he unlatched
the door to let the medical officer
pass in.

Iris's berth was a lower one, facing the
entrance. As Jack opened the door, he
saw her plainly, lying back upon her pillows,
with closed eyes, and loosened hair ;
and as he saw her, he started violently,
and muttered something very like an oath
beneath his breath.

Hullo, Jack ! what's up ? ' exclaimed Dr
Lennard jestingly ; ' seen a ghost, eh 1 '

Nothing, doctor, nothing,' he answered,
in a muffled voice ; 'that is the lady,' and
closing the cabin door hastily upon him,
he leant against it for a moment, to recover
himself.

At first his heart called out that he must
be mistaken — that it was only a chance
likeness he had seen lying on the pillows
within that door. But his reason told him

he was not, and that there could not be
two faces in this world like the one that
had been enshrined in his heart ever since
he first beheld it. This then was the
reason of his strange interest in Miss
Douglas. His eyes had been too dull to
recognise her, but his instincts had been
stronger than his sight.

Dr Lennard might well ask him if he
had seen a ghost. How the good doctor
would * chaff' him if he told him he
had indeed seen the ghost of his early-love
— the memory of his life, sweet Iris
Hetherley.

As Vernon Blythe left the cabin to return
to his duty, he staggered like a
drunken man.

AT SEA.

Before noon on the following
day, the lighthouse at Dungeness
was sighted, and the Pandora
parted company with her towboat.
It was a joyous morning. A southerly
wind blew its warm breath across the
water, and filled the sails of the vessel.
It was just the wind that suited her, for
she could show off her powers far better
on a bowline than when running, and she
ploughed along with the freshening breeze
at thirteen knots an hour. Her sharp
stem cut through the swells, and made

the seething foam rush angrily from her,
leaving a long white streak of creamy
froth in her wake. Little spits flew over
the weather top-gallant-sail, as the boisterous
waves dashed against her, and the
sea gushed through the lee scupper-holes,
oozed in at the ports, and ran in torrents
aft with the backward roll. Her large,
white canvas sails bulged out with the wind,
and made her sheets crack again, as they
hugged the belaying bits ; and the leeches,
stretched taut with the bowlines, trembled
convulsively when she came up to windward.


The Pandora was behaving beautifully,
and her passengers — who had mostly pulled
round after their severe shaking in the
Downs — all thought the movement delightful.
And the scene by which they were
surrounded added to their pleasurable
sensations. The gulls sailed in half-circles
about the vessel's wake, now and then
uttering hoarse cries as they dived after
and engaged in a battle-royal for some

tempting morsel tossed overboard by the
black cook. The porpoises skimmed the
waves in frolicsome gambols — often leaping
straight out of the water, and falling
back upon their sides with a loud splash,
scaring the smaller fry, that fled in all
directions, as they chased each other over
the crested swells. The numerous vessels
that passed, too, showed themselves off to
advantage under such an inviting gale.
The heavily-rigged East Indiamen, with
her Lascar crew, homeward bound, after a
twelve months' voyage, followed by two
small tugs, in the hope that the breeze
would drop, and she would be obliged to
have recourse to their assistance ; the neat
little Madeira writer, with a cargo of
oranges and bananas, making all haste
to London to get rid of her perishable
freight ; the Newcastle steamer, that enveloped
every craft that came near her in
clouds of smoke, and poured gallons of
water from her black sides ; the huge
ocean liner, that looked like an enormous

VOL. I. N

floating hotel, and sent forth ominous
blasts as she altered her course to keep
clear of the sailing vessels ; the West
Indian barque, that was chartered to bring
home rum and sugar ; and the humble
collier, with her dusty cargo and begrimed
hull and sails ; these, and many others,
passed the Pandora on her outward
voyage, and kept her passengers interested
and amused. Mr Vansittart, with a storm-cap
strapped under his chin, and a pair of
field-glasses slung in a case behind his
back, was standing under the shelter of
the wheel-house, talking to his daughter
Grace, who looked rather paler than
when she stepped aboard, but declared she
felt quite well as long as she remained in
the fresh air. Godfrey Harland was inclose
attendance on her, and she seemed
pleased by his proximity. He had quite
got over the ridiculous fit of self-reproach
which had attacked him off Southend, and
had nerved himself to go through everything
that might lie before him — even to

marriage with Grace Vansittart, if she and
her parents consented to it. Mrs Ley ton,
too, was on deck for the first time, and sat
on the skylight, enveloped in a warm shawl,
whilst her little daughter Winifred (who
was still known as ' Baby ' ), a pretty child
of about three years old, ran about the
deck ; and Alice carried on a laughing
flirtation with Captain Lovell, which she
refused to relinquish for all the warning
looks she received from her mother. The
fact is, Alice was piqued. Her lawful
sweetheart, Jack Blythe, may have been
too busy to stay by her side, and attend to
her many little wants, and she was a
sensible girl, and did not expect him to
give up his duty for his pleasure ; still, he
might have spoken a word or two to her
occasionally in passing, or thrown a look
with a world of meaning in it. But though
he had smiled kindly at her when they
met in the morning, he had taken no notice
of her since, and Alice could not help
seeing that he was pre-occupied and

serious. What could be the matter with
him ? Surely he was never going to be
so stupid as to feel jealous of the little
attentions Captain Lovell showed her, and
which he himself had no time to pay ! If
that was to be the order of march at this
early stage of the proceedings, what would
Jack do before the voyage was over.
The very thought made Alice's only half-subdued
heart rebellious, and her smiles
became sweeter, and her laughter more
hilarious, than there was any need they
should be.

And, meantime, jealousy of her and
her doings was the very last thought
of Vernon Blythe. His mind was entirely
set upon Iris Harland, and he had
to drive her image, and the wild conjectures
which the sight of her had
eliminated, by force away, in order to
fit himself for his duty. Where washer
husband ? What was she doing onboard
the Pandora ? Why had she embarked
under a false name ? And had

she recognised him when he recognised
her ? All these questions kept rushing
through his brain, and driving him half
crazy because he could not solve them.
He had tried to pump Dr Lennard, but
had derived little satisfaction from the
attempt. The doctor could not guess
the reason for his anxiety, and would
not have sympathised with it, probably,
if he had. He set down the young
man's queries to curiosity, and answered
them in a very common-place manner.
Miss Douglas was better, and would be
all right in a day or two. Did he not
consider her an unusually pretty woman ?
Well, she had good features, certainly,
but was too thin and pale for beauty,
and she was very silent. The doctor
didn't know if she was stupid or sulky,
but she did not appear very grateful for
the attentions shown her ; and the girl
from the steerage who was nursing her,
and seemed to be her friend, was twice
as interesting a person, in his eyes.

And so Vernon Blythe turned away
with the secret of his burning heart untold,
and waited feverishly for the moment
when he should see Iris again and
speak to her, although he could scarcely
trust himself to think of it. He had
borne the sting of his disappointment
for five long years, and he believed that
he was cured. He had never expected
to meet Iris Hetherley (the only name
by which he had known her) again. He
had thought he should, in due time,
marry Alice Leyton, and banish the last
memories of his first love for ever from
his heart. Yet here she was, and the
very knowledge that she was here had
the power to make the young sailor's
blood course like molten lava through
his veins, and set his head spinning like
a top. He knew that, in a few days at
latest, he must see her again ; but each
hour seemed to mark a day as it dragged
its weary length along.

Jack longed for a storm to arise, — for

the vessel to be In danger, — for anything
to occur that should take him out of
himself, and make the time go faster.
But the clerk of the weather would not
listen to his prayer. The sky continued
to be gloriously blue ; the emerald waters
sparkled in the radiance of the sun ; the
white cliffs of dear Albion, with the green
fields beyond them, receded further and
further away ; the vessels of every nation,
which the English Channel bears upon
her bosom, became scattered and far between,
and the Pandora stood out to the
open sea.

COURTSHIP.

With a light wind and a flowing
sheet the Pandora, now more
than a fortnight out, moved
slowly through the water. Astern was
the island of Madeira, standing like a
huge rock in the sea, and various crafts
on the deep blue waters looked, in the
distance, like children's toys. Not a
cloud was to be seen. The sky was as
blue as the sea — the air mild and pure.

The sun had become so oppressive
that an awning was rigged over the after
part of the vessel, and the passengers,

having quite recovered their sea legs,
were reclining on chairs and couches
under its welcome shade. The occupiers
of the second cabin were resting on the
quarter - deck, sheltered by the cutters,
which were kept in the chocks on the
after-skids. Everything seemed peaceful
and quiet aboard. A merry laugh from
the girls, or the plaintive bleating of the
sheep being the only sounds that broke
the silence.

It was Vernon Blythe's watch on deck,
and his men were employed aloft setting
up the topmast and topgallant rigging.
There was but little work for the officer
to do. Occasionally his services were
required to serve out marline, libertine,
and different stores, but that did not
occur often, and left him far too much
time for thought and speculation. Why
did not Iris Hetherley appear amongst
the other passengers on the quarter-deck ?
His wistful eye kept roving there every
second minute in the hope of seeing her,

but she did not come. What could be the
reason of her enforced seclusion ? Vernon
had attempted to see her twenty
times in the last fortnight without success.
For a week she had kept her
berth, and when she left it, she seemed
never to be in the cabin when the
second officer entered it. Maggie had
answered his numerous inquiries respecting
her mistress more than once, and
always blushed and stammered so much
over the operation, that Jack suspected
she had been cautioned not to enlighten
him. Which indeed was the case ; for
Iris had confided the fact of her former
acquaintanceship with him to her humble
friend, and had prayed the girl to warn
her whenever he entered the cabin, so
that she might escape to the shelter of
her berth. Maggie had remonstrated
with her 'pretty ' on the absurdity of the
proceeding.

You must meet the gentleman sooner
or later, you know, mistress, so what's

the good of dodging him. And if he
was a friend of yours, why should you
dodge him ? You say he don't know
that villain up in the saloon, and if he
did, he wouldn't betray you if you asked
him not. Is it likely ? And maybe he'll
help you, and be good company on this
long voyage, and stand your friend on
the other side, where you'll want one,
poor lamb, God knows ! Now, mistress
dear, do be wise, and meet the gentleman
with a handshake next time he
comes in, and then you'll feel as you
have one person at least aboard, who
takes an interest in you.'

But Iris would not accept the advice
offered her. Perhaps she was not quite so
certain as Maggie seemed to be of Jack's
claim to be trusted. Perhaps she dreaded
the questions he might put to her — or certain
tender memories connected with her
former rejection of his suit, combined
with the miserable disappointment of her
married life, warned her that a renewal

of friendship between them might prove a
dangerous solace under her present circumstances.
Any way, she studiously avoided
him, even to the length of refusing to take
any fresh air on deck; and Vernon Blythe's
heart grew heavier and heavier under the
daily disappointment of meeting her. It was
not, however, for want of distraction that he
brooded over the memory of his first love, for
all the girls aboard ship showed their willingness
to talk to, and even flirt with him.

As he walked to one end of the poop
now, to take a look out, Grace Vansittart
tried to detain him.

Mr Blythe,' she said, ' can you tell
me what that vessel that is so near the
land is donor ? '

Vernon fetched the glass from the pilot-house,
and leaning it against the forrard
mizen shroud, gazed for some moments
at the vessel.

She is flat aback,' he answered, as he
finished his survey, * and I think will
have some difficulty in getting away.'

But why ? She has the same wind
that wee have.'

Not exactly. She Is close under the
land, where it is calm.'

How nice it must be,' remarked Grace
admiringly, * to know everything.'

She was looking very attractive that
day, dressed in a costume of blue serge,
that toned down the fulness of her outlines,
with a broad leather belt encircling
her waist, and a wide straw hat, trimmed
with corn and poppies, sheltering her
fresh young face. Had Vernon Blythe
been heart whole, he might have fallen
a victim to the fascinations of this handsome
girl, who was looking at him ver)'
encouragingly out of her large brown eyes,
and doing her level best to engage him ina
conversation. But Grace Vansittart's
charms would have held no danger for
him, even if Iris Harland's proximity were
not rendering him fireproof. He was engaged
— not formally, indeed, but still by
mutual consent — to Alice Leyton, and no

temptation would have induced him to abrogate
his rights. Not that Ah'ce had made
many demands upon his attentions lately ;
on the contrary, she rather ignored the
fact of the tie between them, and generally
kept away at the other side of the deck
when they occupied it at the same time.
But Jack was not sufficiently in love with
her to resent the action. On the contrary,
he thought it displayed a becoming reticence
on her part, which he had often
wished she possessed before. And so he
contented himself with shaking her hand
when they met in public, and kept all his
dovelike confidences for the very rare
occasions when they encountered each
other alone. Alice had no reason, however,
to be ashamed of \i^x: Jiancd, who was
one of the smartest young officers in the
merchant service, and a pattern to the
majority of his mates, who seem to imagine
that neatness and cleanliness form no
part of their duty whilst on shore.

He was always well and smartly dressed.

His uniform showed traces of careful
handling, and his peaked cap, with its
gaily-embroidered badge, evidently received
due attention from the clothes-brush.
His boots shone with blacking,
and his golden-flecked head was as perfectly
groomed as if he were about to
stroll through Hyde Park. Though, truth
to say, you might have covered Jack
Blythe with mud, and ducked him in a
horse - pond, and he would still have
emerged looking like a gentleman. It
was this trait, as much as his beauty, that
attracted the other sex to him. Women
detest a slovenly man. Miss Vansittart's
evident liking for the young officer was
viewed with jealous alarm by Godfrey
Harlan d. He had not forgotten his causeless
grudge against Blythe, and he was
determined he should not take the wind
out of his sails now.

What do you want to talk to that
fellow for. Miss Vansittart ? ' he asked, as
Jack was called away to the main hatch.

Why should I not ? ' inquired Grace.
Do you disHke him, Mr Harland ? I
think he is such a very pleasant young man

^ Pleasant young man!' sneered Har-land.
' Do you suppose, Miss Vansittart,
for an instant that any of these fellows
are gentlemen ? Why, they have all risen
from common seamen.'

I am sure Mr Blythe is a gentleman,'
retorted Grace warmly.

Then I suppose you call Mr Coffin
and the old skipper gentlemen ? They
have quite as much right to the title as
young Blythe.'

I don't agree with you,' said Grace; ' I
know a gentleman when I speak to him,
Mr Harland ; and so long as my parents
raise no objection to it, I shall continue
my acquaintanceship with Mr Blythe.'

This answer nettled and alarmed Godfrey
Harland. He had been on such
friendly terms with the heiress hitherto,
that he was jealous of the influence exercised
over her by the second officer.

Had he dared, he would have said anything
to lower his rival in her estimation,
but he was sharp enough to see that
such a course would only injure his own
cause. So he turned his attention to
patching up the slight breach between
them instead.

My dear Miss Vansittart,' he commenced,
' you must forgive me if I have
spoken too strongly on the subject. You
know how miserable it makes me to hear
you speak in praise of any other fellow,
and will excuse my transient ill-humour
for the sake of its cause.'

He had never said so much to her
before, and he waited rather nervously
for her reply. He had not intended to
give her an intimation even of his wishes
until he was safe in New Zealand, and
had had an opportunity of sounding her
father's mind upon the subject. But if
other people were going to intrude their
officious attentions upon her, it would be
as well perhaps to let her have some
VOL. I. o

inkling of his preference. And Grace
Vansittart did not resent it.

With the quickness with which some
young ladies recognise a would-be suitor,
she had already seen (or thought she saw)
that Harland had a fancy for her, and
was not displeased with the idea. Her
superior education had had the usual
effect. It had opened her eyes to the
inferiority of her parents, and infused a
desire to rise above them. Beyond all
things, she was determined to marry a
swell! She set her face resolutely against
all stock-riders, or sheep-farmers, or bush
gentlemen whatever. She wanted to marry
some one who would take her back to England
to settle, and Mr Harland was the very
man to suit her. She thought him very
good-looking (which undoubtedly he was),
and perfect in his manner of address, and
was ready to credit him, in addition, withall
the minor virtues which are supposed
to make the happiness of a married life.
So when he spoke so meaningly to her

concerning his jealousy of Vernon Blythe,
she did not affect ignorance of his meaning,
but took his excuse as a matter of
course.

Well, I am glad you are penitent, at
all events,' she answered gaily, ' for you
have no real cause for ill-humour. You
must be a terrible tyrant, if you forbid
your friends talking to any one but yourself.'


Ah ! my friends can do as they choose, '
he said significantly, 'it is ony you whom
I would guard from all evil, as a miser
guards his treasure. But perhaps you
will be angry to hear me say so.'

Well, I don't think you have any
right to speak to me in that way, Mr
Harland,' replied Grace, looking down.

Give me the right, then, Grace,' he
whispered, bending over her chair. * Let
me feel that when you are even speaking
to others you are thinking of me, and I
will cast all my wretched jealousy from
me like some unholy thing.'

Oh, Mr Harland, how can I ? Remember
how short a time we have known
each other. Barely six weeks.'

^ It has been long enough to bind me
to you for ever.'

But I am not of age, you know. I
have no power to decide such a question
for myself. My father is the proper
person to speak to about it. And I
feel sure — quite sure — that he would say
it is a great deal too soon.'

Then, don't speak to him just yet,
Grace. Let us keep our little secret till
we get to Tabbakooloo. Only tell me
one thing — that if Mr and Mrs Vanslttart
give their consent to it, you will
be my wife.'

Grace blushed very becomingly as she
answered in the affirmative.

Only, Mr Harland, I must make one
condition — '

'Oh, don't call me *' Mr Harland."
Say '' Godfrey," that I may feel you
really look upon me as your own property. '

Godfrey, then. You must promise
me, in case of papa's consenting to —
you know what — that you will not settle
in New Zealand, but take me back to
live in London. I am wretched at
leaving it. I have not seen nearly
enough of its sights or its pleasures,
and the very idea of spending my life
at the Antipodes is distasteful to me. I
know that you, too, like society, and
theatres, and all the rest of the amusements
in dear, delightful old London.
Promise to take me back to them, won't
you ? or else I really cannot — '

Don't finish the sentence, for Heaven's
sake ! ' cried Harland. ' I will promise
anything and everything you exact from
me, if you will agree in return to give
me the opportunity to fulfil my promises.'

Of course the idea of his returning to
England, where he had another wife and
scores of creditors waiting for him, was
utterly ridiculous ; but it was impossible
to tell her so at that moment. Let him

once be her husband (or appear to be
so), and he could find a dozen excuses
for breaking his word. But he must
snare the bird before he plucked it.

Yes ! I promise, if my father and
mother will permit me to do so,' replied
Grace Vansittart, as he took her hand
in his.

And if they refuse, my darling, will
you have the heart to give me up "^ ' he
whispered.

Let us wait and see,' said Grace.
It will be two months and a-half yet
before we reach our destination.'

How can I ever wait till then ! ' exclaimed
the enraptured lover, who knew
that delay was the very thing he wished
for.

This little episode happened when they
were sitting almost alone upon the poop,
and believed themselves to be unnoticed.
But Mrs Vansittart, sitting in her cane-backed
chair, and nodding with the heat
over her basket of knitting wools, was

not so fast asleep but that she started
up every now and then, and in one of
her starts she opened her eyes upon
Godfrey Harland holding Grace's hand
in his. The simple old lady had never
cottoned ' to this adventurer as her
husband and daughter had. She was
affable to him, but she had a slight
distrust of him — just sufficient to make
her wide awake where her only child
was concerned. But she did not say
anything to Grace. Whenever it came
to finding fault, she was just a wee
bit afraid of the educated young lady
who knew so much more than herself.
But when the dinner was over that day,
and the passengers were again on deck,
enjoying the evening breeze, Mrs Vansittart
called her husband to her side on
one of the saloon sofas.

Stay with me for a minute, John,'
she said, ' for I want to speak to you
on a matter of importance.'

REMONSTRANCE.

ELL, old lady,' commenced Mr
Vansittart facetiously, * and
what is it ? I hope the skipper
ain't been taking liberties with you,
nor nothing of that sort.'

Oh, now, John ! do stop your nonsense,
when you know well I've been your married
wife for five - and - twenty years,
and no man ever dared take a liberty
with me yet.'

Come, come ! you're forgetting,' replied
her husband. ' Didn't I catch you

once in our parlour at Tabbakooloo with
Charlie Monro's head in your lap, and
you kissing his hair ? '

Oh, go along with you, John ! You
know the poor lad had just lost his mother,
and come to tell me so. And that reminds
me how often I've thought and
wished that our Grace and Charlie might
come together by-and-by, and make a
match of it.'

That will never be,' said Mr Vansittart.
' Charlie's too rough for Grace.
You forget what a lady our girl has
grown.'

Oh, no, I don't, John ; and sometimes
I almost wish we'd kept her alongside
of us. But that's not to the purpose. I
don't want her to choose in a hurry, and
I'm afraid she's getting on a little bit too
fast with that Mr Harland.'

Why, what makes you think that ? '

I was watching them together on deck
this afternoon, and I saw him take her
hand. John, did you hear anything

more about Mr Harland's family and antecedents
before we left England ? '

No, my dear, I hadn't the opportunity
I never quite liked him,' sighed the

mother; ' he has such sly eyes.'

Oh, come ! that's a very foolish reason.
You mustn't judge of a man by his eyes.
His actions is all we need go by.'

Has he ever spoken to you about our
Grace, John ? '

No, nothing particular. But I can see
he admires her. Why should you object
to it ? He seems a smart fellow, and he's
a thorough gentleman. Of course the
rhino's the trouble, but he's very frank
about that, and we've got more than we
know what to do with, so it would be hard
if our only child shouldn't suit her own
taste with a husband.'

Oh, John, don't talk as if it was a
settled thing. Don't let it go on. Tell
Grace it's too soon to let Mr Harland get
so intimate. I don't know why, but I've
such a feeling against it — as if it would

be the cause of some great trouble. And
I did so want her to take a fancy to Charlie
Monro.'

Ah ! that's at the bottom of it all, old
lady. You've taken to match-making in
your old age. Now, look here, take my
advice, and leave the young people to settle
the matter for themselves. You wouldn't
have listened to your mother if she had
told you to chuck me overboard and take
another man.'

But I had known you, John, for years ;
and how long is it since you met Mr Har-land
? '

Not more than six weeks or so. We
know nothing about him at all. And
we don't need as yet, wife. There's
plenty of time before us. Grace don't
want to marry him tomorrow, I suppose
? '

H even forbid ! '

Well, I can't understand your taking
such a sudden prejudice against the
young fellow. I think you must be jealous

of losing your daughter. After all,
what has he done ? Held her hand !
Lord ! I'd be sorry to have to marry
all the osiris whose hands I've held!'
It don't look well though, John.'
Then tell your daughter it don't look
well, and she'll keep out of your way
next time she does it. Now, don't you
fret about nothing. I can't see any objection
to it, if the young people do
fancy each other. Harland is a man
of good birth and breeding, and will
suit Grace a deal better than Charlie
Monro.'

Then you won't speak to her, John ? *
No, my dear. You can do as you
like about it, but I don't care to put my
finger between the fire and the wood.
If the young man was objectionable
to me, he wouldn't be here. I shan't
take any notice of the affair until he
asks my consent.'

And you will give it, John ?'

Yes ! I guess I shall give it, conditionally.

He must see his way to
making an income, of course, before he
can marry a wife. But we're in no
hurry to part with Grace, and a very
small certainty will satisfy me. All I
think of is the girl's happiness.'

That's just what I'm thinking of
too,' sighed his wife.

Well, mother, then we're of one
mind as usual. But I've promised to
join the gentleman in a game of poker,
so I must leave you. Now, don't sit
here by yourself, fretting for nothing.'

'John, does Mr Harland play high?'
demanded Mrs Vansittart anxiously.

Terrible high,' replied her husband,
laughing. * Farthing points, and generally
loses them. I won sentence three
farthings off him last night. Oh ! he's an
inveterate gambler. You may take my
word for that.' And chuckling over
his own sarcasm, he went off to the
smoking-room.

Mrs Vansittart, seeing it was of no

use to speak to her husband on the
subject, resolved to take the first opportunity
to broach it with her daughter.
She was a simple soul, and she felt
nervous at the idea of offending Grace ;
but she was a fond mother, and, like
the timid ewe, could fight to defend her
young. But the opportunity did not occur
for some days. Then Grace, happening
to have lingered too long in the sun,
contracted a violent headache, and came
to her mother's cabin to lie down, and
be petted and made much of. And whilst
Mrs Vansittart was bathing her daughter's
forehead with eau-de-cologne, and fanning
it to soothe the pain, she ventured
to allude to the subject which occupied
her mind.

You shouldn't stand in the sun, my
dear, when there's an awning to sit
under. You'll get fever if you don't take
care. Whatever made you so careless .-^ '

I don't know, mamma. I was talking,
and didn't feel how hot it was.'

Who were you talking to — Mr Har-land
? '
Yes.'
And what were you talking of ? '

How can I remember,' replied Grace,
colouring ; ' a dozen different things.'

A dozen different things don't matter,'
said Mrs Vansittart oracularly. ' It's one
thing I wouldn't let Mr Harland speak of,
if I was you, Grace, my dear.'

And what is that ? ' asked the girl, ina
low voice.

Marriage.'

Why not, mother ? Why shouldn't he
speak of it as well as any other man ? '

Because I don't think he'd make a
good husband.'

What right have you to say so '^, cried
Grace, starting up. ' What has he done
to make you distrust him ? Papa and heare
such close friends ; and if papa had
not considered Mr Harland to be good and
trustworthy, would he have asked him to
accompany us to New Zealand 1'

Ah, your papa and me don't always
think alike, my dear, although, I am
thankful to say, a difference of opinion
doesn't make us quarrel. And men are
blinder than women in such matters.
They judge by the outside, but we have
our instincts.'

Do you want to set me against Mr
Harland ? ' exclaimed Grace, with flashing
eyes.

Do you like him so much, then, my
dear ? '

Yes ; that is to say. of course we all
like him. Who could help doing so, when
he is so agreeable and good-looking ? '

And he has told you that he likes
you ? '

Grace lay down on the pillow again,
and turned her face slightly away.

Don't be afraid of me, my dear girl
continued Mrs Vansittart ; * I shan't scold
you, whatever may have happened. Is
it a settled thing between you and this
gentleman ? '

Contingent on your consent and papa's,'
replied Grace.

You mean if we say yes corrected
her mother, who was rather puzzled by
the word ' contingent.'

Just so, mamma. Mr Harland has
asked me to marry him, and I have consented,
provided you and papa have no
objections to make to it.'

Mrs Vansittart began to cry.

Oh, my dear ! it's terrible quick.
Why couldn't you have waited till we
got home to Tabbakooloo '^, There are
so many nice young fellows about there,
and you'd have had a much better choice.'

I don't want to choose. I'm quite
satisfied with Mr Harland,' said Grace
pettishly. ' And why are you crying,
mamma .'^ What has he done '^ Really,
it's quite alarming to see you go on in
this way.'

Oh, Grace, my darling girl ! don't
^v^^ him a final answer yet. Wait a
little longer,' sobbed the old lady. ' I

VOL. I. p

can't give you any reason, but I've a
notion it won't turn out well.'

But this is nonsense,' replied her
daughter, from the heights of her superior
wisdom. * If you have any reasonable
objection to Mr Harland, mother, tell me
what it is, and I will endeavour to fall
in with your wishes. But don't condemn
him for a chimera.'

A what, my dear ? ' said Mrs Vansittart,
opening her eyes. ' I never heard
of such a thing. But he hasn't no money.
You must allow that. He says so himself.
'

I know he is in difficulties at present,
but a year or so will clear them all off.
And the most fashionable people get into
difficulties sometimes, mamma, and have
to mortgage their estates and let their
houses. You have only to hear Mr Har-land
talk, to know what splendid circumstances
he has been in. Besides, papa
has always told me that the want of
money need never influence my choice

of a husband, because he has plenty for
us all;

You have made up your mind, then,
to marry this Mr Harland, Grace ? '

Yes, mamma, if papa and you give
your consent

Oh, my dear child, I'd consent to
anything for your happiness. Only —
will he make you happy ? '

I think so,' replied Grace.

There was nothing more to be said,
then — at least so Mrs Vansittart thought,
as she returned, with a deep sigh, to her
former occupation of bathing Grace's forehead
with eau-de-cologne.

Whilst this little scene was being enacted
in the stern cabin, Vernon Blythe
was on deck, standing by the taffrail,
and looking expectantly towards the .
It was his first watch
that night from eight to twelve. Mr
Coffin had turned in, and the passengers
were amusing themselves with music in
the saloon, and cards in the house amidships.

Suddenly Jack saw a pretty head,
all covered with curls, appear at the top
of the ladder, and in another moment
Alice Leyton stood by his side. They
were alone, but she did not hold up her
face to be kissed as they drew near
each other. She seemed to have been
somewhat infected by Vernon's low spirits
the last few days, for she had certainly
been less talkative and merry than usual.

Well, Jack she said, as they came
within hailing distance, ' I thought it was
about time I came and looked after you.
They are so dull in the saloon. Almost
everybody is reading, and all the gentlemen
have deserted us for those horrid
cards. And you must feel it stupid up
here too. Let us try and enliven each
other.'

Do you know,' replied Jack, ' that it is
my watch, and you are not supposed to
speak to the officer on duty. Miss Alice .'^'

Bother your watch!' she retorted. ' As
long as I do not interfere with your duty,

the captain will not object. Mr Coffin
was telling me yesterday that there is no
rule about it.'

So you have been trying your hand
upon poor old Coffin now, have you ?
What a dreadful flirt you are. You'd
coquet with your own shadow, sooner than
with nothing at all.'

Would I '^ ' cried Alice. * Not if it had
a petticoat on. That's all you know about
it, Jack. But what's the matter with you.
You've not been half yourself lately.
Mother says she hasn't heard you laugh
since we came aboard.'

Too much to think of,' replied Jack ; ' I
have no time to laugh now.'

Too much to think of, you old humbug ! '
laughed Alice. ' Why, on a night like this,
there is no work at all to do. That's
why I have inflicted my company on you.
I was afraid you might go to sleep at
your post.'

There's no fear of going to sleep
where you are, Alice, and as long as we

don't get a shift of wind, I hope you
will stay here, and cheer me on my lonely
watch.'

Well, it strikes me you want cheering,
Jack. Your face is as long as a hatchet.
Is it anything that Fve done?' inquired
Alice, with a guilty fear that he would
answer in the affirmative. But he didn't.

You!' he exclaimed, reddening in the
moonlight. * Oh, dear, no ! What have
you been doing ? Anything naughty ?
Because, if that's the case, you had better
make a clean breast of it at once, and
receive my absolution before you go to
sleep.'

You're quite sure you would give me
absolution ? ' she said saucily.

I think so. Why not ? It's better
than quarrelling with you, and it saves a
lot of trouble. Only I must hear what
you have been guilty of, before I can
decide the amount of absolution you require,
and whether it can be conveyed by
one kiss or half-a-dozen.'

Jack,' said Alice, pouting, ' I don't
believe you love me one bit ! '

She was becoming fast aware that she
didn't care for him, and yet she would not
willingly have given him up to any other
woman. Dop-s in the manner are nowhere
in comparison with the fair sex. They
may be utterly sick of a man's attentions,
and wish never to receive them again, but
they would endure them to the extent of
martyrdom sooner than see them transferred
to a rival. Their vanity cannot
brook the idea of being forgotten.

What can I do or say to retake you
believe it ? ' returned Jack. ' I suppose
you say that because I have so little time
to devote to you now. But you know that
I would lie all day long at your feet, if I
had not these confounded watches to
keep.'

But you never say anything nice when
we do meet,' continued Alice.

I didn't know you cared for my nice
things. You have so many people to say

them to you. Captain Lovell, for instance f
Isn't he whispering soft nothings to you
all day long ? '

Alice blushed furiously.

Jack ! you're not jealous — are you ?
she whispered.

He burst out laughing.

Jealous ! my dear child ! Most decidedly
not ! I'm only too delighted to see
my little girl so well appreciated. What
sort of a fellow is Lovell ? Has he got
anything in him ? He looks rather an ass
to me.'

Not at all,' cried Alice indignantly ;
he is very clever, and most amusing. I
never met any one who made me laugh
so much. And he has travelled all over
the world, and has a wonderful memory.
It is a shame of you to call him an
ass.'

I only said he looked like one ! It is
all right if he isn't,' remarked Jack coolly.

You are jealous of him ; that's what it
is,' said Alice, in a temper.

Jack walked straight up to her, and took
her hand.

My dear little woman ! you are perfectly
wrong. I am jealous of no man.
You have promised to be my wife, and 1
rest securely on that promise. Were I
to see you flirting with the whole world,
I should not suspect you of betraying me.
Whilst I am engaged to you, I should
consider it most dishonourable to make
love to another girl. Why should 1 suspect
you of possessing a lower nature than
my own ? So set your mind at rest upon
that score, Alice. I trust you, my dear,
as I hope you trust me*'

Good-night,' said Alice, in a stifled
voice, as she turned away. ' Mother will
be expecting me to join her in the cabin.'

Good-night,' echoed her lover cheerfully.


Neither of them kissed the other as
they parted, though when this ceremony
had first been omitted between them, it
would have puzzled them to say — only

they seemed somehow to have involuntarily
dropped it.

Alice ran down the companion almost
too quickly for safety, and bolting herself
into the cabin, threw herself upon the
berth, and burst into a flood of tears.

He is too good for me,' she thought
remorsefully, * a thousand times over. He
always was. He trusts me implicitly,
and tells me to trust him in the same
manner. Oh, if he only knew ! — if he
only knew ! '

But at this juncture she heard the
cheerful bustle outside of the gentlemen
returning to the saloon to finish up the
evening with singing and flirtation, so
Alice dried her eyes, and arranged her
curls afresh, and emerged to seek consolation
at the hands of Captain Lovell.

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

0112 049087213

ill

By THe/WtiIoii op

My Sister the Actress

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

L475A

VOL. II.

a

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/driventobaynovel02lean

A NOVEL.

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR OF

'love's CONFLICT,' 'MY OWN CHILD,'

THE MASTER PASSION,' ' SPIDERS OF SOCIETY,'

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1887.

[All Eights reserved']

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS



Pisa

CONTENTS.

CHAP. PAGE

I. Maggie, . . , i

II. In the Doldrums, 19

III. The Widow, 35

IV. On the Poop Deck, 52

V. The Glass falls, 69

VI. To The Rescue, . . . . . .82

VII. Free, 99

VIII. Confidences, 114

IX. The Whaler, 131

X. Danger, 141

XI. Shipping Seas, . . ■ . . . .161
XII. A Game of Dominoes, 177

XIII. In the Smoke-Room, 192

XIV. Settled, 209

XV. The Letter, 224

Crown 8vo, doth, $s. 6d. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.
PEERESS AND PLAYER.
FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.
A BROKEN BLOSSOM.

THE HEIR-PRESUMPTIVE.
THE HEART OF JANE WARNER.
UNDER THE LILIES AND ROSES.
MY OWN CHILD.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Clip).

HER SUCCESS. I Juniper.

KATE VALLIANT. I ALLERTON TOWERS.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.

MOLLIE DARLING.
SWEETHEART AND WIFE.

MATED WITH A CLOWN.
ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS Houston, Author of "Recommended to Mercy."

Barbara's warning.

By MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.

THE MATCH OF THE SEASON. I A FATAL PASSION.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.

By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.

ONLY A LOVE STORY. I NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY.

By JEAN Middlemost.
POISONED ARROWS.

By MRS H. LOVETT CAMERON.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. | A DEAD PAST.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID.
By DORA RUSSELL. I By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

OUT OF EDEN. | KEITH'S WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE HARRISON, Author of " So Runs my Dream.
FOR ONE MAN'S PLEASURE.

By EDMUND Leather.

THE ACTOR'S WIFE.

By HARRIETT JAY.

A MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.

r.nr ^'rrvNT Awn rniuPAwv prtvtk-pc vrHMi'nppu

CHAPTER I.

MAGGIE.

LARGE passenger vessel like
the Pandora, that makes
voyages of two and three
months' duration, without stopping on
the way, is a hotbed of flirtation.
When the first excitement of a ' life on
the ocean wave' has toned dow4i, and
the novels are exhausted, and everybody
knows everybody, then scandal
and courtship become the order of

VOL. II. A

the day. And what glorious opportunities
such a life presents for ripening
friendship into love. As ina
ballroom the young couples frequent
the conservatories, the stairs, the lobbies,
and hall, anywhere where they can talk
and listen unobserved, so on board-ship
they may be found sneaking about the
after part of the poop, the cabin passages,
and the lounges in the saloon.
They make appointments on the side
of the quarter-deck in the dog-watch,
or the first night-watch, and there
remain gazing at the moon and the
stars, or in each other's eyes, discussing
astronomy, or marine aquaria, or
the Lord knows what, until the young
lady is summarily ordered below. A
chaperon cannot possibly follow her
charge into every corner of a large ship,
for eighty consecutive days. She might
be able to keep a strict eye over her
in a ballroom, but it would be a herculean
task to accomplish the same feat at sea.

And so a lengthened propinquity on
board-ship often brings about marriages
and scandals that never would have
taken place on shore. It is also a great
vehicle for gossip. What have the
passengers to whom no one makes love
to do but scandalise the rest. From the
Captain to the Jemmy Ducks, from the
noble lord who is travelling in the stateroom
for his pleasure, to the humble
emigrant whose whole property consists
of the bundle he carries about with him,
all who are unwary enough to tell any
tales about themselves, or conspicuous
enough to have tales told of them, supply
food for discussion over the afternoon
cups of tea, and learn with astonishment
a few weeks after how much more their
companions know of their lives and
actions than they do themselves. The
Pandora had found the north-east trade
winds by this time, and making a southwesterly
course, was fast diminishing the
distance between her and the line.

Though it was the autumn of the year,
it might well have been mistaken for
the spring, for the birds seemed to be
pairing in all directions. Mr Harland
and Miss Vansittart were seldom apart.
Captain Lovell was paying all the attention
in his power to Alice Leyton, whilst
Vernon Blythe was eating his heart
out for the love of Iris Netherland
cursing his fate for being an officer
of the ship instead of a passenger. Mr
Fowler, the mysterious, flew like a
humming-bird from flower to flower, enlivening
the married ladies with morsels
of scandal, and complimenting the girls
on their beauty and their wit. Every one
liked him, but no one had succeeded
in discovering who he was, or what he
was doing on board the Pandora. He
had a wonderful knack of changing the
conversation directly it veered in his
own direction, which made it appear
impertinent to pursue a curiosity which
he so boldly evaded. In the second

cabin, Will Farrell had made himself a
general favourite, and more than one
lone she creature, unattached, tried hard
to induce him to take her in tow. But
though he was sociable with all, he was
only intimate with one, and that one was
Maggie Greet. He had formed quite an
attachment for this girl. Had he
possessed the means he would have transferred
her from the steerage to the second
cabin, but he promised himself to makeup
for that, to her, by-and-by. Meanwhile
he spent every spare moment by
her side, and on deck they were always
together. But Maggie would not be
persuaded to go on deck until nightfall,
and then she wrapped herself up in what
appeared an absurd fashion, considering
the warmth of the weather.

What are you afraid of ? ' asked
Farrell of her one evening. ' You couldn't
catch cold if you tried, in these latitudes.'


Toothache,' replied Maggie tenaciously,

' I have it dreadful sometimes
at night.'

That's because you stop in the cabin
too much. You stew down there all day,
and then when you come on deck, you
feel the difference. You should stop in
the open air, like the others do, from
morning till night.'

'And what would my poor lady do all
by herself, whilst I was taking my
pleasure on deck ? '

I know you're very good to Miss
Douglas, Maggie. It's that that first
made me feel I should like to have you
for a friend. You're a staunch one,
I'm sure. But why not persuade her to
come, too ? She'll kill herself if she
mopes in her berth all the voyage.
What's the matter with her? Is she
sick ? '

No! she isn't sick.'

Why doesn't she come on deck then ? '

That's her business and not yours,
Mr Fan-ell.'

1 True ; but I should like to know a
little more about you both. Sometimes
you call Miss Douglas your " lady" and
sometimes your "friend." Now, I can
guess that you have lived together in
England as mistress and servant. But
why don't you say so ? '

1 Have you got any more questions to
ask me, Mr Farrell ? ' said Maggie coolly.

They were sitting on the afterdeck
together, and it was nearly dark, except
for an oil lamp in the forecastle,
that threw an occasional light on the
girl's face. Maggie was looking very
pretty and pleasant that evening. Her
dark eyes were bright and merry ; her
curly hair was blowing about in the sea
breeze ; over her head she had twisted
a shawl of scarlet and green. Her pertness
became her roguish face, and
Farrell gazed at her admiringly as he
answered, —

You'll provoke me to ask you something
that will make you angry, if

you look at me in that fashion,
Maggie.'

4 And what may that be ? '

A kiss ? '

1 Well, asking and having is two
different things, so I advise you to
spare your breath to cool your porridge.'


Now, you wouldn't be so unkind as
that, Maggie. But, seriously, can't you
understand why I want to know more
about you. It isn't idle curiosity. It's
because — well, it's because we seem to
be rowing pretty much in the same boat.
We're going to a new country together,
where we've got no friends ; so why
shouldn't we be friends to each other ? '

We are, aren't we ? anyway, there's
no need for you to be more friendly than
you are, and I don't quite see how you
could be.'

'/ do. I would like to be the closest
friend you had, — your friend for life,
Maggie. Do you understand me?'

1 No,' replied Maggie stoutly, ' I
don't. '

'Then I'll make it plainer to you.
Will you marry me ? I want a wife to
make a home for me in the new world,
and you suit me down to the ground.
If you'll say the word, I'll marry you as
soon as we touch land. Is it a bargain?'

1 Lor', Mr Farrell, are you poking fun
at me ? '

1 Indeed I am in earnest. I was nevermore
so in my life.'

But you're a gentleman born, and
I'm only a servant. It's right you
should know the truth now.'

1 Well, I'm not a gentleman by birth,
Maggie, though I may look like one to
you. I was in the position of a gentleman
once, but I lost it through my own
folly, and I shall never regain it. I got
into sore trouble through the rascality of
another ; and though I wasn't really
guilty, appearances were against me, and
I had to give up my place, and take to

earning my bread by the labour of my
hands. So you see we're pretty equal ;
and a girl that can cook my dinner, and
keep my house clean, is just the sort
of wife I shall want in my new
home.'

'What has become of the fellow as
got you into trouble ?' asked Maggie,
without noticing his last remark.

Curse him ! ' exclaimed Farrell vehemently.
' Don't talk of him, Maggie, or
I shall forget myself, and where we are.
For I'll tell you a secret, my dear. He's
on board this very ship ! '

Lor' ! and does he know that you're
here too ? '

Yes. I hadn't met him for years until
I knocked up against him in the shipping-office.
He was taken aback at meeting
me, I can tell you, and hearing we were
to sail in the same vessel. He tried to
square me at first, and then he tried to
insult me. But I'll have my revenge
on him yet. Wait till I meet him on

the other side, and we'll stand up, man
to man, till one of us drops — '

Don't talk in that way, Mr Farrell
dort ! ' cried Maggie, as she seized his
clenched hand. ' You make my blood
run cold. What good will it be to lose
your' life for a man like that? It won't
undo the wrote.'

You're right there, Maggie. But it
drives me mad to know what he is, and
then to see him carrying on as if he
was a lord, and owned the whole vessel.
And all the girls fawning on him, and
letting him do as he likes with them.
Lord, if they only knew his real character
! '

'What is his name, Mr Farrell ?'

His right name is Horace Cain, but
he's hiding himself under a false one.'

And what did he do ? '

I can't tell you that, Maggie, because
it might leak out, and it involves us
both. He's been my ruin in the old
country, d — n him ! I don't want

him to spoil all my chances in the
new.'

'Well, then, I'd try and forget it, if
I was you, and never speak to him again.
That's more sensible than thinking of
revenge.'

I will try and forget it — more, I will
promise you never to mention it again —
if you will be my wife, Maggie.'

Maggie shook her head.

'No, Mr Farrell — that I can't never be.

But why ? Don't you like me ? '

She did not answer, and he took her hand.

4 Don't say no in such a hurry, my
dear girl. I'll work for you as long as
I have a pair of hands, and I'll make
you as happy as I can ; and it'll be much
more comfortable to come to a home of
your own than to serve in that of a
stranger. Just think, now. I really like
you very much — in fact, I love you, or
I wouldn't propose such a thing. Am
I disagreeable to you, or can't you love
me a little in return ? '

But all the answer Maggie gave was
conveyed by her throwing her shawl over
her face and bursting into a storm of
tears.

Why ! what is this ? Have I said
anything to vex you ? Oh, don't, dort
cry so ! ' exclaimed Farrell anxiously.

But Maggie sobbed on for a few
minutes without intermission. Then,
suddenly stopping, she uncovered her
face again, and turned to confront him.

Look here, Mr Farrell she said,
1 don't you never talk to me about marriage
again. I ain't a marrying woman.
I shall never marry you, nor no one.
Do you understand ? I shall remain as
I am to the last day of my life.'

1 But why ? Are you married already ? '

The girl laughed harshly.

'No! I ain't, nor likely to be. There's
no other man in the way. You needn't
fear that.'

1 Then I shall go on asking you till
you say yes.'

1 Mr Farrell ! I tell you 'ain't no use.
I ain't fit to be your wife. I ain't a good
girl. Now, you've got it, straight from
the shoulder, and I hope you like it.'

For a moment Farrell was silent. It
wasn't a pleasant piece of news to hear,
as he interpreted it. But he loved the
woman sincerely, and he wouldn't give
her up just yet.

No one is good. I daresay you're
no worse than others,' he answered presently.


Yes I am,' said Maggie, ' I'm downright
bad.'

What do you call " downright bad ?" '

I don't know why I should tell you,'
whimpered Maggie, wiping away a fresh
relay of tears ; ' but you've been very
kind and good to me and my dear mistress,
and I wouldn't like you to think that
I'm ungrateful. And I'm sure you won't
tell on me.'

God forbid ! ' exclaimed Farrell solemnly.


Well, then, I had a misfortune, and
I went wrong,' whispered Maggie, in a
very low voice.

1 Poor child ! Was it long ago ? '

Better than two years. I was only
seventeen.'

'And where's the brute that wronged
you ? ' exclaimed Farrell fiercely.

Hush,' cried Maggie, looking round
her nervously. ' Don't speak so loud.
It's all over now. It has been ever
since. I thought him good and true at
that time, but when I found out what a
villain he was (and much worse to others
than he'd been to me), my love turned
to hate, and I could have killed him —
except for others.'

1 And who are the others ? '

I can't tell you. 'Isn't my secret. It's
theirs. But you know all now. And that's
the reason I can't be your wife. You
wouldn't have asked me if you'd known.'

1 Does Miss Douglas know your secret,
Maggie?'

'No, no,' cried the girl excitedly, 'and
don't you never hint it to her, or I'll
kill you. Oh, my dear, sweet mistress !
I've tried sometimes to make her understand,
but I haven't dared tell her the
truth. I should die if I saw her sweet
eyes look angry at me. Oh, promise
me, Mr Farrell, on your sacred honour,
that you'll never let her guess I've been
so wicked. For I'm her only comfort.
There's no one else to love and
care for her, and if she made me
leave her, she'd be all alone. And
she's in such dreadful trouble you
can't think. If it's wrong to stay by
her — so pure and good as she is — I
can't help it, for I'd lay down my life
for her sake.'

She turned her face, all blurred and
swollen with her tears, towards him, as
she spoke, and he bent down and kissed
it tenderly.

1 Poor child ! I will carry your secret
for ever in the depths of my heart. And

now, answer my question — Will you be
my wife ? '

1 Lor ! Mr Farrell, you can't have
listened to a word I said.'

I heard you perfectly, and I understand
you have been wronged and betrayed by
a villain. So have I ! and I am the worst
of the two. We have each yielded to
the temptation that assailed us. We are
equally guilty, and I believe equally penitent.
We have no right to reproach each
other. If your past is as entirely buried
as mine, Maggie, let us try to console
each other in the future.'

Oh, sir ! you are too good to me ! I
don't deserve it. I didn't think any honest
man would ever think of me now.'

You must call me " Will" Maggie

When I'm accustomed to the idea a
bit, I may. But I can't believe it's
true.'

It rests with you to make it so.'
To be your wife ! ' said Maggie
musingly — ' to be your lawful, married

VOL. II. B

wife, and have a home of my own in
New Zealand. Oh, Mr Farrell,' she continued
suddenly, as the conviction burst
upon her, ' I shall never never forget your
goodness to the last hour of my life, and
I'll be as true as steel to you, if only ingratitude
for what you've said to-day.'

IN THE DOLDRUMS.

Idea by the steady trades, the
Pandora crept up to the line,
and in little more than a month
from her date of sailing she crossed that
invisible goal, and fell in with a dead
calm in the horse latitudes.

It was a changeable day, but close and
sultry, and the heat between decks was
intolerable. The sun occasionally peeped
out from behind black clouds, and cast
his scorching rays upon the troubled
waters, which rose and fell in angry chops,
like the breast of an indignant woman.

Everything was done to conciliate the
fickle wind, but without avail. It behaved
like a spoilt child, which is never happy
unless acting in a contrary direction to
what others desire. The yards were
squared in, as it hauled aft, but before
the ropes were coiled up the provoking
element was round on the other quarter,
and the shell backs manned the forebrace.
Then it went right ahead, and the unfortunate
officer of the watch was compelled
to box his yard, and have the trouble of
getting the Pandora on her course again ina
dead calm. Heavy squalls came up from
all points of the compass, and while they
passed over the vessel sent her galloping
along at a splendid pace. But in half-an-hour
their force would expend itself; and
torrents of rain poured down and left the
ship again in the doldrums. The officers
were weary of slacking away braces and
countermanding orders ; the sailors' hard
hands, soaked with the rain, became sore
and chafed ; and the passengers were

grumbling and discontented, because they
were unable to remain on deck.

The ' boatswains,' with their snowy
plumage and long spiked-tail feathers,
sailed overhead, uttering shrill cries to
their mates, but not attempting to pounce
down upon the flying fish which swam in
shoals close to the surface of the water,
and the ' ship jacks ' and ' sonatas ' rose
frequently into the air, and fell lazily back
upon the billows with an awkward splash.
Even the merry little ' Mother Carey's
chickens ' had ceased their continuous
flight, and come to an anchor in the wake
of the vessel, where they rode up and
down on the blue, mountainous waves.

Yet the rain was refreshing. It was
not a cold pitiless storm, nor a searching
Scotch mist, but fell in a regular tropical
downpour — a drenching volume of warm
water, that splashed in huge drops upon
the decks, that ran down the masts and
rigging in a delightful shower-bath, that
washed the salt spray from the boats and

spars, and made the ship clean and fresh.
Had these frequent squalls not mitigated
the fierceness of the sun's rays, the decks
would have been unbearable, the sailors
would have been obliged to adopt shoe
leather, and the pitch would have boiled
out of the seams, and stuck to everything
with which it came in contact. But under
the influence of the rain the shellbacks
pattered about with bare feet, enjoying
the cool bath, and not even taking the
trouble to don their oilskins to protect
them from a wetting. Few people on
shore know the true character of our
English sailors — fewer still have ever
tried to find out what sort of animals they
are. There is a general opinion held by
the land-lubber that the sailor is a rollicking,
devil-me-care, blasphemous creature,
with a wife in every port, — a great capacity
for rum, and a tendency to sing, ' Yeo
heave, oh' upon every possible occasion.
But the real seaman is very different from
this. There is no such man as the brainless

fool who is depicted in drawing-room
songs and on the stage as constantly
hoisting up his slacks ' and ' tipping his
flippers,' and singing out ' Hillel Hauled,'
or some equally childish refrain.

The British sailor is certainly partial to
rum, and he has every reason to be so.
When on a freezing night he is perched
for a couple of hours on the footsore of
a yard, trying to handle an obstinate topsail,
which has torn the nails from his
fingers, and caused him to tuck his chin
down to his breast to head against the
biting wind ; when this uninviting task is
completed, a lot of strong rum goes down
like mother's milk, warming the very
cockles of his heart, and giving him fresh
vigour and endurance to battle with the
storm.

Then with regard to the fairer sex,
a sailor's gallantry is a byword, and what
more natural than it should be so. It is
so seldom he can enjoy female society,
and after having been located for months

in a forecastle, and subjected to the rough
horse-play of his male companions, the
ways and words of women (even though
they may be the lowest of their sex) is
a welcome change, and acts on the susceptible
nature of Jack like a charm. He
adores woman collectively and individually.
At sea he sings her praises, and he boasts
of her virtues in every clime. He swears
eternal fidelity to her before he leaves
England, and breaks his promise at the
first port he touches at — still woman, asa
noun of multitude, is responsible for
it all. And when he returns home, he
is as enthusiastic over Poll as if he had
never forgotten her for a single minute.
His creed may be summed up in the refrain
of the ballad —

It don't matter what you do,
So long as the heart's true,
And his heart is true to Poll.'

But the British seaman has sterling qualities
to counterbalance the frivolity of his
child-like nature. To stand by his shipmates

in times of trouble or sickness — to
evince a strong attachment to little children
— to be honest and above-board in
his dealings — to defend the weak and
punish the bully — to remember kind
actions and forget petty injustices, these
are some of the virtues which stand out
boldly in the characters of our sailors, and
more than counterbalance any little failings
of which they may be guilty. They are
rough and straightforward, preferring to
settle an argument by the use of their
fists, than by philosophical reasoning.
They are brave and fearless, — careless of
death, though they live under the daily
chance of becoming acquainted with Davy
Jones' locker, and yet simple in their
faith as little children.

The sailors before the mast of the
Pandora were sixteen in number — twelve
able-bodied seamen and four ordinaries,
who were all comfortably housed in the
forecastle, which was certified to accommodate
twenty-four hands. Their work

at times, when the ship required box-hauling
and tacking, was not light, as the
Pandora was heavily rigged, and only-carried
part of her complement. They
were not all English, amongst them being
Swedes, Germans, and Spaniards, who
dressed in blue and red 'jumpers and
made a picturesque group when at work
together. There is always one officer
who is singled out as a favourite by the
seamen, and on the Pandora a unanimous
verdict was passed in favour of Vernon
Blythe. The chief mate was gruff and
tyrannical, and his orders were frequently
accompanied by unnecessary oaths, which
lowered him in their estimation. The
third officer was only a newly-fledged
mate, who had just hopped from the
midshipman's berth, and, though holding
a certificate, was looked on by the sailors
as a mere boy, and treated consequently
with a respectful but patronising interest.
The ' old man,' as they designated their
skipper, was not disliked, though by no

means a favourite. When at the wheel,
or in the captain's quarters, he never
interfered with them, but his indefatigable
system of working up was not appreciated.


For a whole fortnight the Pandora was
making but little headway in the doldrums,
and during that period the sailors
were continually working ship. The captain
raised the clews of his courses, and
lowered them again ; ran up the head
sails, and then manned the downhauls ;
set the spanker, and trailed it in again.
Everything was done by turn to work the
vessel out of those detestable latitudes,
and he did not spare his crew, which
aggravated them to such an extent, that
they growled from morning till night, and
rained imprecations on their commander's
head, which, if put into effect, would
have enriched the coffers of his satanic
majesty.

Early one morning a treacherous squall
burst upon the Pandora, which threw

her for a few seconds on her beam ends,
till she was righted by the cool pluck of
Mr Coffin, who ordered the halliards to
be let go ; and perceiving the yards
would not come down, took charge of
the helm himself, and shivered the weather
leeches, which righted the ship, though
she sailed within an inch of being taken
fiat aback, and losing her sticks. When
she was out of danger, Captain Robarts
considered it necessary to stay the vessel,
as she was many points out of her course,
and the order was given to ' 'bout ship
The decks were now dry, and the breeze
fresh and invigorating. The passengers
had crowded on the knife-board to seethe
Pandora ' turned round' — an operation
which was new to them. The ropes were
cleared for running, and the hands stationed
; and when clean full ' Sea-oh ! '
was passed to the chief mate, who, with
a few men, was standing by to ease off
the jib sheets on the topgallant forecastle.
When within a point and a half of the

wind, and the sails were hugging the
masts, the order was shouted to 'crossjack
haul,' and the hands of the main
fife-rail gathered in the slack of the
braces, which whizzed and cracked through
the blocks at the opposite side, as the
heavy yards swung round.

But when square the lower yard brought
up with a sudden jerk, and refused to be
pointed.

What's foul ? ' roared Captain Robarts.
• There's something in the starboard
crossjack brace block, sir,' replied the
third officer.

Send a hand up to clear it, then,'
bawled the irate skipper.

Now it happened that the ship's
washerwoman had taken advantage of
the recent rainy weather to collect a
quantity of fresh water, and that very
morning had hung her clean linen to
dry on a small line suspended over the
deck, between the main shrouds. The
velocity of the braces as they ran up aloft

made them twist and curl and assume
fantastic shapes, and as they careered inclose
proximity to the wet clothing, a
mysterious garment was caught up, and
became jammed in the block. One of
the sailors ran up the ratlines, and clambered
into the top ; and, by a strong pull
from below, the garment was disengaged.
The language of the officers was high
Dutch to the passengers assembled on
the poop, but from the visible excitement
of the captain, they guessed that something
must have gone wrong, and watched
the seaman curiously, as he hastened up
the rope ladder.

What is it ?' shouted the skipper, as he
saw the block was cleared.

The sailor in the maintop did not
answer, but glanced slyly down at his shipmates,
and then at the red flannel garment
he held in his hand ; whilst the ladies and
gentlemen stood in a group together, and
looked on with breathless interest.

'It is something red!' exclaimed Alice

Leyton, who was very close to Captain
Lovell. ' What on earth can it be ? Is ita
flag, Jack ? ' she asked of Vernon, who
stood just below them.

I don't know, Alice, but I don't think
it is,' replied Jack, who seemed unaccountably
amused.

It is just the colour of baby's new
pinafores. I shall be sorry if one of them
gets torn,' said Mrs Leyton.

1 What is it ? ' repeated the captain, ina
louder voice. ' D — n it ! Hold it out,
man.'

Without hesitation the sailor obeyed.
He held the mysterious obstacle out at
arm's length, and the breeze, catching it
on the right quarter, unfurled it like a flag,
and it remained distended in the air for
the benefit of all beholders. It was made
of red flannel — it appeared to be divided
into two parts like twin bolster-covers on
one stalk — and it looked as if it would fit
Mrs Vansittart.

The silence which followed its appearance

lasted for a minute only. Then the
ladies blushed crimson, and with subdued
exclamations of horror hid their faces
behind their fans or in the pages of their
novels. The gentlemen, with ill-concealed
smiles, turned away, lest their amusement
should confuse still further their fair companions
; and the boisterous sailors with
one accord burst into loud shouts of laughter,
which, for the moment, was beyond
the power of their officers to control.

The grim and pious captain even was
moved by the liberal display of that
sacred, though unmentionable article of
female clothing, and was obliged to bite his
lip and stamp his feet lest his noisy crew
should take advantage of his loss of self-command.
Then assuming his usual dignified
manner, he bellowed out an order
in a deep, stern voice, that made every
sailor hasten to the firebrands, and for a
time forget the comical little adventure
which had upset the order and equanimity
of the Pandora.

Vernon Blythe walked away to the
lower deck with a broad smile upon his
face. He had laughed as heartily as the
rest, until a distressed look from Alice
Leyton had recalled him to a sense of
duty. But now, as he found himself alone,
the comical appearance of the red flannel
bolster cases, as they inflated in the
breeze, came back forcibly upon his mind,
and he laughed out loud. How closely
connected are joy and sorrow, comedy and
tragedy, in this world. Vernon was
striding along, with a beaming smile upon
his handsome features, and his eyes lit up
with merriment, when he came suddenly
upon Iris Harland. He had longed
and prayed to see her again ; he had
tried every manoeuvre he could think of
to come upon her unawares, but without
success, and he had almost begun to think
there was no chance for him. And yet
now, when he was least expecting it,
here she was in the second cabin, seated
at the end of the table, with her head
vol. 11. c

Driven to Bay,

bent wearily upon her hand. In a moment
the light had faded from Jack's face,
to give place to a look of anxious expectation.
But he did not hesitate. His
chance was come, and he would take it.
He walked straight up to her side.

THE WIDOW.

Miss HETHERLEY!' he exclaimed,
in a voice that trembled
with nervousness and excitement.
' Miss Hetherley, will you not
speak to me ? '

Iris was not unprepared for the meeting,
although a moment before she had
believed herself to be alone. She had
talked the matter over with Maggie, and
they had agreed that it was impossible
she could avoid him for the whole course
of the voyage, and that, sooner or later,
Vernon Blythe and she must speak to one

another again. Yet what to say to him,
or how to explain her presence on board
the Pandora, she knew not, and her first
refuge was in an attempt at denial.

I am not Miss Hetherley,' she answered,
in a low voice, and with her face
turned from him.

Forgive me. I know you are married,
but I never heard the name of your husband.
How am I to address you ?'

You — you — are mistaken,' repeated
Iris. ' I am Miss Douglas!

Vernon looked down at her for a few
moments in silence, his young, lithe figure
drawn up to its full height, as he stood
beside her. She — still drooping over the
table, hid her burning face as best she
could from him.

Iris,' he said presently, 'why do you
want to deceive me ? '

At that appeal — so tenderly spoken —
she broke down, and began to cry.

Oh, don't do that, for Heaven's sake ! I
exclaimed Vernon. ' If you wish to avoid

me — if my presence is obnoxious to you
say so, and I will go away, and never
come near you again. But don't cry. It
is more than I can stand. If you are
in trouble, let me help you. Am I not
your friend ? '

I have no friends,' sobbed Iris.

No friends!' he echoed reproachfully.
1 Have you then quite forgotten Dunno,
and the Bridge of Allan ? '

Forgotten them. How she wished that
she could forget them. As Vernon spoke,
a vision rose before her of the heather-covered
hills, the rippling burns, the blue,
misty sky of far-off Scotland, where she
had first met him, and, above them all,
the earnest, pleading, passionate young
face that had implored her to exchange
her heart for his. How often she had
thought of it since. How often had the
memory of his eyes, swimming in a mist
of unshed tears, come between her and
the disappointment of her married life.
How often, when the scales had fallen

from her own vision, and the man she
had believed to be a god had proved to
be the commonest of clay, had Iris Har-land
not wished she had been a little less
hasty, and taken time to weigh the several
merits of the men who had asked to link
their lot with hers. And as Vernon's soft
voice, sounding so different when he
spoke to her from what it did when he
spoke to others, fell on her ear, it brought
the past so vividly before her, she could
not stay her tears.

'Have you quite forgotten?' he repeated.
' When you crushed the best hope
of my life, Iris, you left me one consolation
— you promised to remain my friend.
But that promise is still unredeemed. I
heard that you were married, but nothing
more. I have never forgotten you, but I
had no hope we should meet again. Now
that it has happened so unexpectedly, I
find you alone — in trouble — and in a
position utterly unfitted for you. Won't
you fulfil your old promise now ? Won't

you let me be your friend, and help you
as far as lies in my power ? Where is
your husband ? '

I have no husband,' she answered,
blushing furiously.

No husband ! ' cried Vernon. ' Was ita
mistake then ? Have you never been
married ? '

Iris nodded her head.

And he is dead ? '

The girl started. She had never
thought of this solution to the difficulty.
Of course she would pass herself off as a
widow. Nothing could be easier. The
anxious expression in a great measure
left her face as it occurred to her. She
did not foresee the dilemma it might create
for them both.

'Yes,' she answered, almost eagerly, 'he
is dead. I am alone.'

And your father. Is he gone too ? '

1 Yes, thank God. I mean that it would
have broken his heart to see the trouble
I have gone through.'

I Then you have known trouble, poor
child, as well as I ? '

Yes,' she said, shivering ; ' plenty !
Please don't speak of it.'

'And why are you going out to New
Zealand ? Have you friends there ?
What do you expect to do ? '

I I don't know.'

1 But, good heavens ! you cannot land
in a strange country without a protector,
or a home to go to — without any plans,
or visible means of subsistence. Miss
Hetherley, forgive me, but — '

1 Pray —-pray don't call me by that
name,' she interposed fearfully. ' You
don't know — there might be people onboard
— you never can tell.'

1 Miss Douglas, then ; but how can I
address you by a name that is not
yours ? I shall be constantly forgetting.
Let me call you Iris. I would not be
presumptuous, but I have thought and
dreamt of you by that name ever since
we parted. May I call you so now ? '

1 As you will, Mr Blythe.'
1 Then, Iris, tell me all your troubles.'
Oh, I cannot ! ' she said, shrinking
backward. 'You do not know.'

But I cannot help guessing. I guess,
from finding you here, that you are not
rich. I guess, from the few words
you have uttered, that you are lonely
and unhappy. I can see for myself that
you are ill. Iris! can I be your friend
and stand by in silence and make no
effort to help you ? Let me speak to
you openly once more. It is five years
since we parted, but not a feeling of my
heart has changed since then. Cannot
you trust me to be true and faithful to
your interests now ? I have had very
little consolation during those five years.
You denied me the greatest happiness
of my life, and I submitted to your decree.
But you can in a measure console me
now. Confide your troubles to me, and
let me help to bear them with you.
How long have you been a widow ? '

1 Oh, a long time ! I never really had
a husband. I was widowed from the
commencement.'

1 Poor child ! I couldn't have turned
out a worse " spec." myself. And where
have you been living since ? '

In London ! '

1 Why did you leave it ? '

Oh, Mr Blythe, don't ask me so
many questions! It is the fear of your
doing so that has made me avoid you
hitherto. If we are to be friends, learn
to spare me. I cannot speak of the
past.'

1 Will you speak of the future, then ? '

1 Yes ! when the time comes, perhaps.
But it is no use discussing it in the
present. It may never come to pass.
We may not reach land. I wish to
God I were not to do so ! I would like
to throw myself overboard at once, and
make an end to all things.'

Vernon Blythe looked very grave.
This expression of despair on the part

of the woman he would have died to
save, cut him to the quick. There sat
his ideal, — the creature who had spoiled
the best part of his life, — whom he had
dreamed of, longed for, and yearned
after for five long years out of five-and-twenty.
There she sat, side by side
with him again — free — friendless — almost,
as it were, at his mercy — and yet he
felt as far from her as ever. As those
last passionate words burst from Iris's
lips, he rose to his feet.

I am worrying you,' he said gently ;
1 I won't stay here any longer. But whatever
may be your trouble, Iris, whether
it arises from loss, or poverty, or — or
anything else — don't be afraid to
ask my assistance or advice. Remember,
I am your friend : and I have
the best right of all men to be so,
because I — '

But here he stopped short, fearful of
offending her, and the conscious blood
dyed his fair face crimson.

What were you going to say ? ' demanded
Iris presently.

What perhaps I had better leave unsaid.
But you are a woman, and do
not need words to make you understand.
You have but to think of the Bridge of
Allan, to know why I have good right to
be your friend.'

You will not speak of me to — to anyone
else on board ? ' she said anxiously,
as she laid her hand upon his arm.

Vernon looked down at the fair white
hand lying so lightly on the blue sleeve
of his uniform, and trembled with pleasurable
excitement. How he longed to
raise it to his lips. But he resisted the
temptation.

Of course not. Do you think I go
about making my most sacred feelings
public property ? Your name has never
passed my lips to a soul since the day
we parted.'

1 Did you care for me like that ? ' said
Iris, opening her lovely hazel eyes.

'I cared for you — like my soul!' he
answered, in a low voice.

There was silence between them for a
few minutes after that, and then he resumed,
in a lighter tone, —

I Why do you seclude yourself so much
in this dark cabin ? No wonder you look
pale and drooping, — like a broken flower.
You should come more on deck. I have
looked for you again and again there in
vain. I thought you were determined
not to speak to me during the whole
voyage.'

I I am afraid — ' commenced Iris nervously.


Afraid of what ? '

1 Oh, I don't know. Some one on board
might recognise me — and I would rather
not. 1 don't wish any one to know.'

Have you seen the list of passengers ? '

1 Yes,' she said, with a shudder.

The young officer noticed the shudder.

1 Well, then, come on the quarter-deck
at night, and no one will see you, especially

if you put on a veil. But do
come ! You will be ill if you remain
here. And then when it is not my watch
I shall be able to sit by you and talk
to you and cheer you up. Will you
promise to come ? '

1 Yes. I will go with Maggie to-night,
if I am well enough.'

And I will leave you now, because
you have had enough of me, and the
passengers are coming down to their
dinner.'

He took her slender hand within his
own.

God bless you, Iris ! Remember, you
are not friendless any longer.'

For the first time, then, she raised her
eyes and looked well at him. His were
regarding her steadfastly. Over his manly
features a great veil of tenderness seemed
to have drawn itself, and his sensitive
mouth was quivering with emotion. He
was looking at her as we gaze at a
wounded animal, or a dying infant, with

infinite compassion, and a strong desire
to relieve and protect. And at that
moment, how Iris longed for his protection.


'Oh, you are good!' she cried suddenly.
* I am not afraid of you. I will
trust you, and some day I will tell you

our

You have made me happier than I
can say,' replied Vernon, as he laid a
reverent kiss upon her hand, and turned
away.

As he found himself on deck again,
he could have sung aloud for joy. The
desire of his heart was accomplished !
He had found her again — she would
allow him to befriend her — above all, she
was free ! This secret love of his life,
whom he had believed lost to him forever,
was actually by his side, and at
liberty to be wooed, and perhaps won !

His pulses galloped as he thought of
it. His brain whirled. He was capable
of committing any extravagance. His

mind ran riot, and sped away to the
time when he should again tell Iris that
he loved her, and hear her lips confess
that he had won her at last. Oh ! if the
chance ever presented itself, he would
never, never let her go until she had
promised to reward his patient love by
becoming his wife.

And just as he thought this, and sprang
up the companion, he came face to face
with Alice Leyton !

Hullo, Jack ! ' she exclaimed, ' what
have you been doing to yourself? Your
face is as red as a turkey cock ! '

I think I might return the compliment,'
he said, as he watched her blushing
cheeks. ' But I can't stay, Alice, I
have some duty to attend to.'

'You must stay!' cried the young lady
imperiously. ' I have something to say
to you. I've been making love to the
captain — awful love. Now, don't get
jealous, Jack.'

1 If I did that every time you flirted

with another fellow, Alice, I might play
Blue Beard all day long,' remarked her
lover.

1 But this was absolutely necessary —
I was martyred in a good cause,' resumed
Miss Leyton. ' I wanted to get
his leave for us to have private theatricals
on board, and the dear old thing
has given it without a demur.'

You have worked wonders then.
We have always considered the skipper
too pious to countenance any such
frivolity.'

1 Well, he wasn't too pious with me,
I can tell you ; and he has promised to
come and see me act into the bargain.'


So you are coming out as a leading
lady, eh, Alice ? '

Of course ; you didn't suppose I
should take all that trouble for somebody
else, did you ? Miss Vere says she will
help us. I and Captain Lovell, and Miss
Vansittart and Mr Harland, will all take

VOL. II. D

a part. And you too. You will play my
lover, won't you, Jack ? '

No, Alice, I think not, thank you.
You have so many lovers, real and
imaginary, that one more or less can
make no difference ; and private theatricals
are not in my line.'

4 Oh, you disagreeable old thing ! It's
most horrid of you to leave me to be
made love to by a lot of strange gentlemen.
They'll have to kiss me, remember,
if it's in the piece.'

'You won't let them, unless you like
it; I am sure of that,' replied Jack,
swinging himself on to the poop, and
proceeding on his way.

1 You're a wretch ! ' called out Alice
after him, but he only laughed in return ;
yet his spirits had suddenly gone down
to zero. What had he been thinking of
and dreaming of when he encountered
her ? What a fool he was to forget fora
moment that he was bound to Alice
Leyton, and could not in honour marry

any other woman. Of what folly had
he not been guilty ? His heart sank
under the conviction, but he pulled himself
together like a man, and tried hard
to stamp down his disappointment. After
all, he could be Iris's friend. She had
said so with her own sweet lips, and her
faithful friend he was determined to
prove, until death came to separate them.

LIBRARY
"<WttSITYOF, U , Nos

ON THE POOP DECK.

O one on board the Pandora was
a greater favourite than Alice
Leyton. She was pretty and
lively and clever, and she was reported
to be rich. On first starting, she had
confided the secret of her engagement
to Vernon Blythe to several of the lady
passengers, and, as is usual in such cases,
the news had leaked out, until it was the
property of the whole vessel. When she
found that it was so, Alice became shy
of its being alluded to, and on more than
one occasion had denied it point blank,
so that people did not really know what

to believe about it. And the girl had
not been in such good spirits lately. She
laughed and talked enough when on
deck or in the saloon, and she ' chaffed '
Jack Blythe so unmercifully whenever
they met, that he had become rather
weary of her presence. But when she
found herself alone or unobserved, Alice's
face told a very different tale. Even the
baby, little Winnie, who shared her cabin,
had more than once been wakened from
sleep by her sister's sobbing, and wondered
in her childish way if ' Ally's
pain was very bad,' to make her 'cry so
hard ? ' Indeed Alice Ley ton's conduct at
this period resembled nothing so much
as an April day, with its alternate sun
and showers. Her tears might flow fast
at night, but she would appear on deck
next morning, radiant with smiles, and
her mother was the only person who
noticed that she looked a little careworn,
and that the lines under her blue
eyes were a shade darker than was

natural. Mrs Leyton noticed another
thing — that her daughter no longer made
the strenuous efforts she used to do to
secure a tete-tete with her lover, Jack
Blythe, but seemed quite contented with
the somewhat formal greetings they were
obliged to exchange in public, whilst she
spent hour after hour in the company of
Captain Lovell. But she did not mention
the subject to Alice. She preferred the
girl should settle her love affairs in her
own way. The truth is, Mrs Leyton
had never felt quite easy as to what her
husband would say when she told him
she had allowed their eldest daughter to
consider herself engaged to be married
before consulting him. She was a great
invalid herself. She had come to England
before Winnie's birth to secure better
medical advice than she was able to get
in New Zealand, and it had not been
considered safe for her to return home
until now. Alice had been, therefore, from
the age of fourteen to eighteen, under

her mother's exclusive care, and Mrs
Leyton often wished she had not allowed
her to drift into this quasi-engagement
with Vernon Blythe. Her husband was
a wealthy man, the owner of a large
sheep-run on the Grannie, and was
likely to expect his daughters to contract
marriages in accordance with the settlements
he was able to make upon them.
Mrs Leyton felt sure that of the two
suitors for Alice's hand, her husband
would prefer Captain Lovell, who had
retired from the service, and was going out
to settle in New Zealand, and so she
determined to let matters take their course.
She liked and admired Vernon Blythe,
but he had no money beyond his pay,
and nothing but his good looks and
gentlemanly manners to recommend him
for a husband. Alice, on the other
hand, was in a very unhappy frame of
mind. She wished her mother would
broach the subject, and ask for her confidence,
or that Jack would grow jealous

of her flirtation with Lovell, and so
bring about an explanation, but neither
of them made any sign. She felt guiltily
happy in the presence of the fascinating
captain, and basely false and fickle with
regard to Jack ; and if he held her to her
engagement, she felt that she must marry
him, and so she was miserable all round.
For she knew now that she had never
really loved Vernon Blythe. It was a
folly — an infatuation. He was so handsome,
so graceful, — so courteous in his
manners towards her, and all the sex.
But he had never looked at her as
Captain Lovell looked. She had never
heard his voice tremble while he addressed
her, nor lowered to such a whisper that
no one but herself could understand
what he said. Jack was the first man
who had ever made her heart beat a
little quicker. He had always been

lively and debonair with her, and paid
her compliments and brought her such
trifles as his slender purse could afford,

and she had mistaken her girlish pleasure
over a sentimental friendship as an
indication of the master passion.

But poor Alice knew the difference now,
and the knowledge made her miserable,
as it does most of us.

The Pandora, with the aid of the trades,
was still forging ahead, but day by day
as she approached the Antarctic latitudes,
it was growing colder, and the Southern
Cross was plainly visible at night. Yet
the hours passed but slowly, and had it
not been for the anticipated private theatricals,
the passengers would have had
but little to talk about.

They were all assembled one morning
on the poop. Alice and Captain Lovell
were standing close together, talking to
Miss Vere about their proposed amusement,
and the conversation naturally led
on to the subject of her profession.

1 By Jove ! deucedly jolly, Miss Vere,
you know, to be on the stage ; isn't it now,
eh ? ' lisped Harold Greenwood, who was

once more in the full glory of pink ties
and white waistcoats, and had his glass
well screwed into his eye.

Have you tried it, Mr Greenwood ?'

Well, not exactly, you know. But I
might have, if I had chosen. I was offered
a large salary once — a tremendous salary,
I was told it was — to appear as " Romeo."
The manager said I was just the face and
figure for " Romeo' you know. " Oh
that I with a glove upon that cheek,"
and all that sort of thing, eh ? I'd like
doosidly to play " Romeo " to your
Juliet," Miss Vere, do you know ? You
have played "Juliet," haven't you, eh ?'

Sometimes,' replied the actress quietly.

Oh, I am sure you have. You'd bean
ideal Juliet, you know. I fancy I can
hear you saying to me, "Oh, Women,
Women ! wherefore art thou, Women ? "
exclaimed Mr Greenwood, lisping rather
worse than usual, in his excitement. But
he was quite offended when every one
joined in a loud laugh.

Oh, you must excuse us, really, Mr
Greenwood ! ' exclaimed Miss Vere, wiping
her eyes, ' but you are so funny. I should
like to play "Juliet" with you excessively.
I assure you I should.'

Do, then,' cried Harold Greenwood,
taking it all in earnest ; ' let us have
Romeo and Juliet " instead of this stupid
comedy, and I shall have the bliss (if for
only one night) of pretending you are
mine, don't you know ? '

I am afraid it would take too much of
our time replied Miss Vere, with mock
seriousness. ' You do not know the many
years of hard study that I was obliged to
go through, before I dared attempt the
part of Juliet.'

But I thought you had only been fora
few years on the stage,' remarked Captain
Lovell.

1 Oh, no ! indeed you are mistaken.
For the last five years I have been on
the London boards, but I struggled for
thirteen years in the provinces before

I could command an appearance in
town.'

1 Do you mean to say you have been
eighteen years on the stage, Miss Vere ? '
said Alice incredulously. ' You must have
appeared when you were very young.'

I was ten years old when I made my
ddbiit. My father was an actor at the
Grecian Theatre, and as soon as I was
old enough to speak my lines correctly,
he procured me my first engagement in
the pantomime of " Goody Two Shoes."

By Jove ! I should like to play in a
pantomime, Miss Vere, don't you know?'
drawled Harold Greenwood ; ' it must be
very jolly to make-believe to be a cat, ora
dog, eh ? '

Or a monkey, Mr Greenwood. No,
I don't think you would care about it.
You would soon want to cancel your engagement.
It is all noise and nonsense
and make-up.'

Mr Greenwood is so clever, I don't
think he would have much trouble to

make-up — as a monkey remarked Captain
Lovell dryly.

Miss Vere frowned, and bit her lip.

A pantomime is all very nice from the
front,' she continued ; ' but when you are
obliged to listen to the same music night
after night, to hear the same lines spoken,
the same "gags" used, you soon get sick
and tired of it all. However, I owe so
much to my burlesque training, that I
never regret I went through it.'

But how could it do you any good ? '
demanded Alice Leyton.

It taught me to use my arms and legs,
my dear, and cured me of many bad habits,
such as not being able to stand still, or
to speak distinctly. There are very few
of our best-known artists who have not
played in pantomime burlesque, and some
of our leading ladies have commenced their
career in the ballet.'

1 But there are many actresses who play
leading parts all at once, don't you know,'
said Harold Greenwood. ' I know a young

lady who acted " Juliet " on her first
appearance, at a matine'e. What do you
say to that, Miss Vere, eh ? '

I say she may have attempted the
part, but I am quite sure she never
acted it as it should be done. "Juliet"
is at once the most beautiful and most
difficult of Shakespeare's creations, and
in the hands of a novice it becomes a
burlesque.'

1 But she had heaps of bouquets, you
know,' argued Mr Greenwood : * the stage
was quite covered with them.'

Flowers do not denote a success nowadays,'
replied Miss Vere, ' and to an
amateur they become a very empty compliment.
If your lady friend wished to
gratify her vanity, and prove how well she
looked in antique dresses, she might have
found a less ridiculous and expensive way
of doing it. You may think I am a little
hard, perhaps,' she added, ' but I confess
I am severe on those amateurs, who have
done so much towards lowering the

prestige of one of the most noble professions
in the world.'

1 Oh, Miss Vere, you make us feel so
small ! ' cried Alice. ' I shall never dare
attempt the part of " Julia," after what you
have, said.'

1 My dear girl, what nonsense ! My
remarks were never meant to apply to
our projected amusement. You will certainly
take " Julia," and make a very
charming " Julia " into the bargain ; and I
am sure Captain Lovell will make a
Faulkner " to match.

The captain bowed.

If I could only have been the lover of
Lydia Languish"' he said.

1 Go along, you humbug ! ' cried the
actress merrily ; ' you know that " Faulkner"
will become twice as natural an
impersonation in your hands. Indeed,
I think you will have to moderate your
dramatic ardour a little, or we shall have a
certain young gentleman in uniform interrupting
the rehearsals — eh, Miss Leyton?'

1 1 don't know what you're alluding to,'
said Alice, with a vivid blush.

1 It must be something to do with the
temperature of these latitudes,' observed
Miss Vere meaningly, ' but I observe that
the further south we go, the harder Miss Ley-ton
finds it to understand any of my hints,'

Now you are growing abusive, so I
shall run away,' replied Alice merrily, as
she turned to the after part of the vessel.

Captain Lovell raised his hat to Miss
Vere, and followed her.

Oh ! are you here ? ' she said, with
well-affected surprise, as having ensconced
herself by the wheel-house, she found the
captain seated by her side.

Yes ! Am I intruding ? ' demanded
Lovell.

Oh, no ! of course not ; besides, the
wheel-house does not belong to me. Only
I wish — ' said the girl, looking down — ' I
do wish people wouldn't be disagreeable,
and talk so.'

I wouldn't mind their talking, if it

wasn't true,' remarked Lovell ; ' but I cannot
help understanding Miss Vere's allusions,
and I suppose they mean that you're
engaged to be married to Mr Blythe. Is
that the case, Miss Leyton ?'

Well, not exactly.'

Is it only her nonsense ? '

1 Not exactly,' she repeated, growing
more confused.

Do tell me the truth, then ! You don't
know how much it means to me.'

1 We — that is, Mr Blythe and I — have
talked of such a thing, but mother doesn't
think that father will ever give his consent
to it.'

1 And do you wish him to do so, Miss
Leyton ? Does your happiness depend on
it?'

1 I am not quite sure.'

1 But if you cared for Blythe, you would
be quite sure. You could have no doubt
upon the subject.'

1 He is fond of me,' said Alice.

1 There is nothing wonderful in that.

VOL. II. E

Plenty of people must be fond of you.
The question is, Are you fond of him ?'

I don't think you should ask me such a
question, Captain Lovell.'

Forgive me if I have said too much.
I would not offend you for the world.
But — but — I am very unhappy about
it!'

'So am 1/ whispered Alice.

1 If that is the case,' exclaimed the captain,
seizing her hand, ' come to some
understanding about it at once ! Speak to
Mrs Leyton and Mr Blythe on the subject,
and let me know the worst. For this suspense
is intolerable, Alice : it is killing
me by inches.'

Hush!' said Alice quickly, withdrawing
her hand ; ' be quiet, for goodness' sake,
Captain Lovell. Here is Jack.'

And indeed at that very moment Vernon
Blythe appeared round the wheel-house,
whistling as he went. He smiled pleasantly
as he came in sight of Alice, and
took no notice whatever of her crimson

face and flurried manner. He nodded to
Captain Lovell, who was confusedly striking
a fusee on the heel of his boot, in
order to light a cigar, and remarking,
Lucky fellow, to be able to smoke when
you choose. I wish my time had come,'
turned away as light-heartedly as if it
had been some other man's betrothed
whom he had detected in a flirtation behind
the wheel-house.

Did he see us, do you think ? ' asked
Alice fearfully of her companion, as Jack
disappeared.

1 Well, I really think he must have seen
us,' replied the captain deliberately, ■ for
we are both full size, you know ! But he
appeared very pleasant about it.'

1 Oh, dear ! ' exclaimed Alice, * I hope
he did not see us.'

You are afraid of him, then ?' remarked
Lovell.

No, not afraid, only — he would think
so badly of me.'

And you wish him to think well of you.'

1 Oh, I don't know what I wish,' cried
the girl, in a voice that was very suspicious
of tears.

The passengers had retreated below.
There was no one but themselves on deck,
except, indeed, Mr Coffin, whose back
was turned to them, and the man at the
wheel, who was shut up in his box, and
could only look straight before him.

Shall I tell you what / wish,' whispered
Captain Lovell, as his arm stole round her
waist ; ' / have no doubt upon the matter,
Alice.'

'No! no! I cannot hear — I do not want
to hear ! ' exclaimed the girl nervously,
as she jumped up from her seat and ran
down to the saloon, leaving the captain to
finish the flirtation by himself.

THE GLASS FALLS.

Three days after the events related
in the last chapter, the
trade winds, which had escorted
the Pandora so well on her passage, died
away, and left the vessel in a dead calm,
till a snorting southerly breeze came over
the ocean, and sent her careering along
at her best pace.

The wind which rattled through the
rigging was cold and chilly, and made
the ladies unpack their furs, and huddle
round the stove. Few patronised the
deck — the air was too keen and searching.

It was a marvellous change from the sultry
weather of the week before, when Alice
Leyton had sat with Captain Lovell under
the wheel-house, and most of the passengers
felt it acutely.

A huge purple bank, lined with silver,
had risen upon the beam, and the sun
assumed a watery and unnatural appearance.


Mr Coffin, indifferent to everything but
the welfare of the vessel, kept a look-out
upon the poop, anxiously watching at
intervals the ominous-looking cloud, which
was gradually growing larger. With his
cap drawn down closely over his eyes,
his thick, bull-dog neck encircled by a
red worsted muffler, a big quid stuck in
his cheeks, and his rough, broad hands
embedded in his trousers pockets, he was
the model of a British seaman.

But he was by no means morose or
ill-tempered. Exceedingly shy and reserved,
from ignorance of the ways and
manners of society, he seldom commenced

a conversation, but if any of the passengers
were bold enough to speak to him, they
found him unpolished, but kindly in disposition.
Under his weather-beaten exterior
he hid a warm, good heart, for Mr
Coffin had a soul of honour, and a mean
or cowardly action would have been utterly
beneath him.

1 Good-morning ; nice day this, isn't it ?'
remarked Godfrey Harland.

1 Yes, sir replied the chief officer ; ' but
I am afraid we are going to have a blow.
I don't like the looks of it.'

1 It looks dirty to windward, I must
say. Do you think there is mischief in
that bank ?

I am sure there is,' said Coffin ; ' we
shall have to shorten down before daybreak,
but it won't be much. The glass
is falling, too, sir, and perhaps you know
the old saying, —

When the glass falls low, prepare for a blow,
When the glass rises high, let all your kites fly."

But we shall be prepared. I have the

hands up at the fore and main reefing
the tackles and spilling lines, and the
chain tacks and double sheets are on.'

What are they doing to your main-topgallant
parcel ? ' inquired Harland,
looking up aloft at the sailors at
work.

1 Well, they are lacing on some new-leather
parcelling,' replied the mate
solemnly, stroking his chin. ' The old
stuff don't let the yard travel quick enough
for my liking. But, if I'm not very much
mistaken, this is not your first voyage,
sir,' he continued, fixing his keen eyes
upon Harland's face.

Oh, no,' replied the other lightly ; ' I
have often been on the briny. I owned
a yacht in New York once — an eighty-tonne
— and all my nautical knowledge
was learned aboard her.'

Was she square-rigged,' asked Mr
Coffin indifferently.

1 No ; fore and aft. As nice a little
craft as ever you saw, and, by the holy

poker, she could sail too. There were
few to beat her.'

1 How do you come, then, to know
about main topgallant parcels, if she wasn't
square-rigged ?' demanded the chief officer,
looking full at him.

Harland felt he was caught in his own
trap. He had foolishly acknowledged
that the only vessel he had sailed in was
a moderate-sized yacht, which could have
been stowed away, with twenty others, in
the Pandorass hold, and that all his sea
knowledge was gained aboard of her.
How, then, could he possibly know the
names, and understand the use, of gear
which was never seen on such small craft ?

After spluttering out an unintelligible
excuse, he attempted to smooth the matter
over by inviting his companion to join
him in a glass of grog. But the old sea-dog
gruffly refused his offer, and turning
away, with a mysterious ' Humph,' sent a
long squirt of red tobacco juice straight
into the stern sheets of the lifeboat.

When Harland noticed his altered manner,
he sidled away under the lee of the pilot-house,
whilst Mr Coffin, after scanning
the horizon and satisfying himself that
there was nothing in sight, leaned against
the taffrail, and thought to himself that —
Mr Harland was a darned sight too deep
for most people, but he had taken him
flat aback that time.'

At mid-day the captain shot the sun —
a feat which Mr Horace Greenwood came
up on deck expressly to see, and was much
disappointed when Jack Blythe informed
him he was just a minute too late ; and
by that time the wind had increased a
little, blowing from south-west to south-south-west
in sudden gusts, and the fore
and mizen royal, and the smaller staysails
were made fast.

Alice Leyton, in a dark brown travelling
ulster, and a felt hat trimmed with a
dainty tuft of feathers, which blew about
with the wind, and mingled with her sunny
curls, had left the close saloon for the open

air, and now stood leaning against the
wheel-house, holding on her hat with one
hand, whilst the breeze caught her skirts
and wound them tightly round her supple
figure.

'Why, Alice exclaimed Jack, as he
came up to her, ' what a brave girl you
are to venture on deck ! But don't be
blown away. We can't spare you yet, you
know,' and he passed his arm round her
waist to steady her as he spoke.

Alice shrank palpably from his embrace.


Don't, Jack, please. I can stand very
well by myself, and some one may be
looking.'

4 No one is looking, my dear, and if
they were, nothing could be more natural
than for me to proffer my assistance to a
young female in distress on such a windy
day.'

I'm not in distress,' replied Alice, half
ready to cry at the situation.

1 Oh, yes, you are. You don't know

what a south-wester is yet. Your petticoats
will be over your head in another
minute.'

Oh,' cried the girl involuntarily, as her
hand left her hat to travel down to her
skirts. ' Jack, let me go back to the
saloon at once. I don't want to stay here
any longer.'

Indeed I won't. I see you very
seldom now, and I mean to make the
most of the opportunity. How long is it
since you kissed me ? At least three
weeks. Don't you think if you brought
your face a little nearer this way, you
wouldn't feel the wind so much ? Your
cheeks are getting positively crimson
with it. You'd better take advantage
of my offer, and shelter under my lee.'

No, no ! ' exclaimed Alice, half in fun
and half in earnest, ' I don't want to kiss
you, Jack. I can manage much better by
myself.'

i Or with the help of Captain Lovell he
answered. ' Isn't that true, Alice ? It

isn't the help that's disagreeable to you,
it's the helper.'

1 Oh, Jack, how can you say such a
thing, when we've known each other for
so long ? '

Perhaps we've known each other too
long, and have come to know each other
too well, Alice. However, I won't tease
you. I've often refused your kisses, soit's
only fair you should have the option
of refusing mine now and then. And I
suppose you're tired of them. It's no
wonder.'

Alice did not know what to say. She
longed to tell him the truth, but she dared
not. She was too fond of him to care to
see his bright face clouded by disappointment,
and yet she knew now that she
could never marry him. Oh dear, she
sighed to herself, what should she do ?

'Jack,' she commenced timidly, ' I think
you'd soon be sick of me. I don't think
I'm a very nice girl. In fact, I'm sure
I'm not. And I shall make a worse wife.

I've almost made up my mind never to
marry at all.'

Jack burst out laughing. He had
known it would come to this at last. He
had watched the confession drawing nearer
day by day. And he was not sorry for
it. Only he determined that Alice should
not have it all her own way. He must
have some fun out of her first.

What are you talking about ? ' he
replied, with affected earnestness. ' You
are a great deal too modest, my darling.
You'll make the very best and sweetest
wife in all the world. Fm the proper
judge of that. Besides, don't forget that
you are pledged to me, and no power on
earth will make me release you from your
promise.'

Alice sighed audibly, and looked over
the sea.

1 But would it be right, Jack,' she said
presently, ' for me to marry, if I knew I
could not fulfil the duties of a wife ? '

Much you know about the duties of a

wife ! ' exclaimed Jack merrily. ' You can
fulfil all / shall require from you : I'll take
my oath of that.'

1 Mother says,' continued Alice solemnly,
'that I am utterly unfit for any of the
graver requirements of life, and that when
my father sees how frivolous and pleasure-seeking
I am, he is sure to refuse his consent
to my leaving home.'

Ah ! I can guess now what has
brought this serious fit upon you, Alice.
Your mother has been frightening you
with regard to what Mr Ley ton may say
to our engagement. But don't you be
afraid, dear. If he should make my
position an objection to our immediate
marriage, I'll leave you in his care till
I shall have attained higher rank and
better pay. And, meanwhile, you can be
learning your duties as a wife,' said Jack
slyly.

1 How can I learn with no one to teach
me ? ' replied Alice sharply. ' Besides,
Jack, it may be years and years before

you get promotion ! Am I to be an old
maid all that time ? '

1 Why, I thought you were never
going to marry at all just now,' said her
lover. ' You are only just eighteen,
Alice. Surely a few years — say till
you're five-and-twenty — would not be
too long to wait for such happiness as
ours will be ? It isn't as if you were going
to marry Captain Lovell, you know, or
some common-place fellow of that sort.
I will serve for you as Jacob did for
Rachel, and if I can wait seven years for
you, surely you will do no less for me,
eh?'

Oh, no ! of course not,' replied the
girl, who had the greatest difficulty to
keep the tears back from her eyes. ' But
but I think I'd rather go down to the
saloon, Jack, this wind is so horribly
strong it makes my eyes water.'

'All right, if you wish it, but I must
tow you safely to the door,' replied Jack,
as he took her across the deck and saw

her disappear in the depths of the saloon
cabin, without speaking another word to
him.

Poor little girl,' he thought, as he
turned laughing away, ' she's terribly
puzzled to know what to say to me. She
would have liked to scratch out my eyes
for that remark about Lovell, only she
didn't dare. Well, it'll come out sooner
or later, but it's not my business to help
her make the confession. If she gives
me up of her own free will, I shall thank
God. But if this is only a passing fancy
on her part or his, I must go through
with it.' And Vernon Blythe sighed as
heavily at the prospect as Alice Leyton
had done, as he went to his work.

VOL. II.

TO THE RESCUE.

LICE flew into the saloon, with
her eyes brimful of tears,
and the first person she encountered
was Captain Lovell, who regarded
her with looks of the utmost
concern. He was a handsome man, in
the ordinary acceptation of the term, of
about thirty, the sort of man to catch the
fancy of a woman who loved her lover's
face before his spirit, but there was no
soul in the expression of his face, and no
sentiment in his disposition. Any other

girl would probably have done as well
for him as Alice Leyton, had he been
thrown in her society for several weeks
consecutively, but on the other hand Alice
would do as well for him as any other
woman, and was happily of a temperament
that would never arrive at a
knowledge of the truth. At present, she
thought Robert Lovell delightful. He
never corrected her, as Jack too often
did. He was never distrait when she
chattered to him, or wrapped in his own
thoughts. He never gazed dreamily at
the stars, or made remarks that were
utterly beyond her comprehension. And
so she quite imagined she was in love,
and so, perhaps, she was. As Captain
Lovell saw her tear-stained cheeks, he
begged her confidence.

- What is the matter, Miss Leyton ?
Has any one dared to annoy you ? '

1 Oh, no ! It is nothing. Only — only
Mr Blythe teases me so. He says — '

I can guess it all. You need go no

further. He presses you on the subject
of your engagement to him

Yes. He says he will never release
me replied Alice, checking a sob.

Alice ! we must put an end to this
at once. It is worrying you too much.
May I speak to your mother, dearest ?
Have I your leave to say that we love
each other, and ask her to consent to
our marriage ? '

If — if — she won't tell Jack,' whispered
Alice fearfully. ' I should be afraid
to be on the same ship with him, if he
knew.'

1 My darling ! Do you suppose you
are not safe with me ? — that any one
would be permitted to hurt you, whilst
/ am by your side ? However, that is
a matter for after consideration. May
I go now and speak to your mother ? '

If you wish it,' replied Alice, as she
ran away to the shelter of her own
cabin.

The afternoon was far advanced, and

the wind had freshened into a loud, continuous
blast.

In the saloon, the passengers of the
Pandora, now quite accustomed to her
varied pranks, were seated at the long
table, amusing themselves according to
their several tastes and proclivities.
Some were playing at cards, chess, or
dominoes ; others were reading, or trying
to write letters ; whilst a few of
the younger ones were gathered round
the piano to hear Miss Vere and Miss
Vansittart sing.

All around them the waves tossed
and tumbled ; the wind howled with a
dismal monotony, like a dog baying at
the moon ; and the rain hissed and
spluttered on the deck, and against the
closed portholes. Now and then, far
above the confusion of the elements,
might be heard the scream of a seagull,
as, scared by the rapid approach of
the monstrous waves that threatened to
engulf it, it flew in terror from its watery

bed, to describe terrified circles in the
murky air. Falling glass, broken china,
and an occasional bump, as the vessel
gave a lurch, and some one who had
not quite acquired his sea-legs came
down in a sitting position, were the
order of the day, and those passengers
who had secured a comfortable seat felt
it was wiser not to leave it. Mrs Leyton,
a fair, soft-looking woman, was stretched
out at full length on one of the saloon
sofas, covered with wraps and shawls,
and with little Winnie (her baby) lying
fast asleep by her side, as Captain
Lovell made his way up to her.

1 We are going to have a dreadful
night, Captain Lovell, I am afraid,' she
said, as he paused beside her couch.
My poor baby is quite tired with
tumbling about, and has fallen asleep.
Do you know where my Alice is ? She
said she was going on deck a little
while ago, but I'm sure it is not fit
weather for her to be out. She is such

a careless, thoughtless thing. Fancy ! if
she were blown overboard ! '

'Heaven forbid!' cried Captain Lovell
suddenly. ' But you may feel quite easy
about her. She has just gone to her
berth.'

I Ah ! I thought she would soon have
enough of it ; but girls are so self-willed
now-a-days. It is a great responsibility
to have a grown-up daughter. I shall be
thankful when Mr Leyton can share it
with me. How terrible the wind sounds
as it moans through the shrouds ! ' observed
Mrs Leyton, shuddering.

I I trust you are not frightened,' said
Captain Lovell. ' The sound is the worst
part about it.'

Oh, yes, I know there is no danger ;
but we women are timid creatures, and
generally behave badly on such occasions.'

1 I think Miss Leyton behaves beautifully.
Even in that sharp squall we had
the other day, her cheek never blanched,
nor did she lose her spirits.'

1 Ah, Alice does not know what fear is.
I wish sometimes she had a more wholesome
dread of consequences. But she
has always had her own way with me,
and I am quite afraid when we get to
Dunedin that my husband will say I
have been too lenient.'

May I enlist your sympathies on my
behalf before you meet Mr Leyton ?' said
the captain, taking a seat beside her.
It is of Alice — of Miss Leyton, I should
say — that I wished to speak to you, and
she has given me permission to do so.
We love each other, Mrs Leyton. Will
you plead our cause with your husband,
and gain his consent to our marriage ? '

Mrs Leyton sat up on the sofa in her
surprise, and little Winnie gave a fretful
cry at being disturbed.

1 Alice has encouraged you to speak
to me, Captain Lovell ? But she considers
herself engaged to be married to
Mr Vernon Blythe. It is not a match I
could ever approve of, because the young

man has no settled income, but they were
much thrown together at Southsea, and
settled the matter between themselves
without consulting me. I had no idea
that she had changed her mind. Are
you quite sure you are following her
wishes in joining her name to your
own ?'

I can only tell you that I asked her
permission to address you on this subject
ten minutes ago, and that she gave
it me most graciously. The fact is, Mrs
Leyton, Alice has often spoken to me of
her half-engagement to Mr Blythe with
deep regret. She declares nothing will
induce her to marry him, and that — God
bless her ! — she has every intention of
marrying me, subject (of course) to the
consent of her parents.'

Well, I really can't understand her,
and I must decline to have anything todo
with the matter,' replied Mrs Leyton,
lying back again upon her pillows. ' I
really don't know what the girls are made

of now-a-days. The scenes Alice subjected
me to when she first fell in love
with young Blythe were beyond conception.
She was going to die, or go mad,
straight off, if she couldn't be engaged
to him. And so, to quiet her, I gave a
sort of reluctant consent. But I confess
I hadn't the least idea the young man
would come out in the same ship with
us. And now it seems she's in love
with you. And what excuse does she
intend to offer Mr Blythe for her conduct
? '

I think Miss Leyton hopes that you
may be persuaded to manage so delicate
a matter for her, and let the young gentleman
know that she desires to be released
from her engagement to him,' said Captain
Lovell sheepishly.

I shall do no such thing, sir. Alice
must conduct her love affairs herself.
Such a task would be altogether too
much for my nerves ; for though I do
not consider Vernon Blythe an eligible

suitor for my daughter, I like the young
fellow excessively. So if his affections
and his pride are to be wounded through
my daughter, she can do it herself. I
refuse to open my lips to him, and I
must say I think he has been treated
very badly.'

1 My dear Mrs Leyton, do make some
allowance for Alice's feelings. Our hearts
are not completely under our own control,
remember. Love is not to be coerced,
like any baser passion.'

1 Well, I hope you'll bear that in
mind, Captain Lovell, if you should ever
be my daughter's husband, and catch her
flirting with some other man. And don't
make too sure she'll stick to you. A girl
that changes once may change twice,
And I don't know that Mr Leyton will
accept your offer for her more than the
other. He's got no romance about him,
and looks high for his daughter.

4 He could not look too high for such
a pearl as Alice. I shall like him all the

better for that,' replied Captain Lovell.
But won't you be persuaded to break the
news to Mr Blythe for us ?'

1 No ! I absolutely refuse, and it's no
use your asking me,' returned Mrs Ley ton,
who was really fond of Jack. ' If Alice
wishes him to know she's a jilt, she can
tell him so herself.'

You are too hard upon her,' murmured
the captain, as he withdrew from the
interview, feeling much less light hearted
than he had done at the commencement.
But before the next day was over both he
and Alice had experienced a shock which
made their own troubles sink into insignificance
beside it.

After a tempestuous night, a long white
streak far away in the southward proclaimed
the break of dawn. The sky was
clear, and the stars flickered with waning
light in the spangled heavens. The gale,
which had blown with great fury during
the night, was abating with the coming of
day, and Blythe, who well knew that it

would die away as quickly as it had sprung
up, hoisted the topsails as soon as it
showed signs of dropping. The storm
clouds were dispersed by the sun, which
tinted the sky with orange and crimson
hues, and the moon, paling beneath the
stronger light, disappeared in solemn
stateliness behind her vast curtain of
cerulean drapery. The waves still leapt
and growled with impotent rage, but,
deserted by the wind and beaten down
with the rain, their energy was almost
expended.

The Pandora laboured against the turbulent
sea, like a horse stumbling over a
freshly-ploughed field. At times she took
large spoonfuls over her fore chains, greatly
to the annoyance of the black cook, who
had continually to clear his scupper holes
with a long caul, and to push away the
cinders which choked them up and prevented
the water from escaping. Now
and again the vessel dashed on to the top
of a swell, and the sea rushed from her in

boiling surf; then she would rise over a
mountainous wave as if about to make
another desperate plunge, till her stern
went with a rude swash into the sea.
sending thousands of bubbling whirlpools
hissing in her wake, whilst the shore-folk
turned uneasily in their bunks, and
wished it were time to rise.

At eight bells the main topgallant sail
was sheeted home, and the outer jib run
up. After which the Pandora behaved ina
more graceful and lady-like manner, and
when the decks had been ' squeezed '
down, all hands emerged from their close
quarters to enjoy the invigorating air,
which the ocean had rendered still more
grateful by a flavouring of brine.

The day became warmer, the wind
hauled round to the northward and eastward,
and the sun, casting off his sickly
appearance, shone forth with a cheerful
warmth.

Alice Leyton, under the escort of Captain
Lovell, walked the lee side of the

deck. They were discussing together the
details of Lovell's interview with Mrs
Leyton the evening before, and the girl
looked both unhappy and dismayed, as she
heard the remarks her mother had made
upon her conduct.

Mr Vansittart and Godfrey Harland,
who appeared by general consent to be
considered as fiance 4 to Grace Vansittart,
conversed at the foot of the mizenmast,
and a weather cloth was spread in the
lower rigging for the benefit of the
ladies, who took advantage of its shelter
for their camp-stools and wicker-chairs.
On the wheel-house benches were seated
two or three young officers, who were
holding an animated discussion on the
probable advent of a Conservative administration,
while Miss Vere and Mr
Fowler, with Harold Greenwood (who
had entirely succumbed to the charms
of the fair actress) close at hand, were
lounging on the skylight.

Suddenly — in the midst of the buzz

of conversation and the sound of laughter
came a low, piteous cry, that seemed
to rend the air, and spread from one end
of the ship to the other. Then a long,
deep nautical shout from the maintop
bawled out the terrifying words, — ' Man
overboard!' In a moment, the whole
deck resembled a disturbed anthill, and
Mr Coffin ran aft to the wheel.

Put your helm a-port, man !' he cried,
seizing the spokes and putting them down .
and then in the same breath he shouted,
Cut away that life-buoy ! '

When the feeble cry was first heard,
Alice and Captain Lovell ran to the side
of the vessel, whence the sound of a sudden
splash had caught their ears. Peering
into the water, they saw nothing at first
but a small bundle of clothes, but in
another moment a velvet cloak and a
granny ' bonnet to match came plainly
in view — the cloak and the bonnet of
Winnie Leyton. Alice turned white and
sick with horror.

My God ! ' she cried, ' it is our baby !
She is drowning I She will die ! Will
no one save her ? Let me go,' she continued,
struggling violently in the detaining
grasp of Captain Lovell, who feared
lest in her agony she should jump overboard
after her sister.

1 Don't be afraid, dearest,' he urged.
1 It will be all right. See ! they are
getting out a boat. They will pick her
up in a minute. Pray, pray don't do
anything rash,' he said, as he attempted
to lead her away.

As she turned, she encountered Jack
Blythe, who was already stripped to his
shirt and trousers.

Jack ! save her ! ' she screamed.

Never fear, Alice ! I will bring her
back to you,' he answered. ' D — n it,
man, stand on one side ! ' he shouted to
Lovell, as he clutched him violently, and
threw him against the astonished bystanders.


What the d — ' commenced Lovell,

VOL. II. G

Driven to Bay.

but in another second Jack Blythe, girding
up his muscular young figure for
the effort, had sprung over the side of
the Pandora to the rescue of Winifred
Leyton.

FREE,

HE foreyard was pointed, and
the gear of the mainsail hauled
up, while Richard Sparkes, with
the aid of five hands, swung the lifeboat
into its davits. On the poop deck there
was terrible confusion. The married
ladies crowded round poor Mrs Leyton,
who was half swooning from her anxiety
and fear ; Alice, refusing all assistance
from Captain Lovell or anybody else,
stood with clenched teeth and strained
eyeballs watching the two black specks
that bobbed up and down like corks upon

the water ; and the rest of the passengers
pressed against the taffrail, talking in
loud and excited tones to each other,
whilst they watched the fight for life or
death.

In a few minutes the boat was pushed
off, and the sturdy sailors made the oars
bend beneath the weight of their arms.
Mr Sparkes held the tiller, and kept
cheering on the men, whilst he eagerly
watched the objects ahead of them.

What a long, long time it seemed.
The boat did not appear to gain a dozen
yards, as it plunged and tossed against
the billows. But the seamen had muscles
that had been developed by climbing and
hauling. All their sinews were like springs
of steel. Each man, with one foot firmly
planted against the thwart in front of him,
lay back upon his oar, with a long, sweeping,
steady English stroke, till his head
was nearly parallel with his companion's
knee — a stretch that would have made a
Dutchman look on with awe, mingled

with admiration, and a pull that sent the
boat's stem through the rollers, cutting
them like a knife, and plumping her down
with a heavy bump on the other side.
Vernon Blythe and the child were now
fully a mile astern. He had managed to
grasp the life-buoy, which was a good
thing for both of them, for poor little
Winnie clung convulsively round his
throat, entirely impeding his swimming,
whilst she sobbed and gasped, as she
tried to recover her breath after the
nauseous doses of salt water she had
swallowed.

She was a pretty little creature, and
just at that age when children become
quaint and interesting. Her brown hair —
which curled naturally, like that of her
elder sister — now hung in a wet clinging
mass about her face and shoulders. The
gay ' granny ' bonnet was gone : it had
floated far away to leeward. The velvet
cloak still hung tightly about her, and
added considerably to her weight. Her

little fat and shapely legs, enveloped in
long Hessian boots, now shuddering and
almost stiff with cold, rested on Jack
Blythe's hips. It was a hard struggle
for him to keep her above water, for
the terrified child nearly choked him, and
he was exhausted from swimming in the
boisterous, choppy sea, that kept on
breaking in a remorseless lather over his
head and face, and prevented him from
breathing freely.

1 Don't — cry — baby. There's — a — boat
coming,' he gasped ; but the little one
did not answer him, except by a heartrending
sob, and a tighter pressure on
his throat.

Swish — h — h went the lifeboat, as the
dripping oars were lifted, feathered, and
dipped again. The shell backs, in regular
time, gave a muffled deep sigh, as they
are wont to do after the tremendous
exertion of a stiff pull. Click-clack went
the bullocks, as they shied and swerved
in their sockets — a long whirr-r — the

order given 'Rowed aW — a rumbling
noise, as the oars were shipped on the
thwarts, and the baby and her preserver
were lifted by strong arms from the embrace
of the treacherous ocean, and hauled
safely into the boat.

1 Now, give way, lads, merrily,' said
Sparkes, as Vernon Blythe seated himself
with the youngster on his knee, and the
wiry saltfish, with a cheer for the second
officer, set themselves with renewed vigour
to their task. They had warmed to their
work by this time. The perspiration
stood in large beads upon their foreheads,
and their blades went forward in clockwork
time. Little Winifred, with her
head resting upon Vernon's breast, gave
vent to plaintive sobs, burying her face
in the wet folds of the young sailor's
shirt, and at intervals peeping out as the
Pandora hove-to in the distance.

1 Ship — wouldn't — wait — for baby,' she
said, whimpering, as she glanced up into
Jack's face.

She will now,' replied Vernon, smiling ;
you went too fast for the poor ship, baby,
but she stopped as soon as ever she found
you had tumbled overboard. Poor mite,'
he added kindly, as he kissed her scared
face ; ' it was a narrow shave for you.'

Brother Jack found me,' said Winnie,
with another little sob.

Her sister had taught her to call him
'brother" long ago at Southsea, and as
Vernon heard her now, he smiled almost
sadly, to think how prematurely the appellation
had been applied.

The passengers had crowded at the side
of the vessel to watch the issue of the
accident, and saw the drowning child and
Vernon lifted into the lifeboat with the
utmost satisfaction. Some of them were
cheering vociferously and waving their
pocket handkerchiefs to express their joy,
whilst others were shouting ' Bravo ! ' But
Vernon Blythe sat in the stern, heedless of
their congratulations. He was thinking of
Winnie's narrow escape from a watery

grave, — of Alice Leyton's agonised expression
when she appealed to him to save her
sister, and he felt thankful that he had
been made the instrument of the little
one's safety. It seemed as though he had
thereby paid part of the debt he owed to
Alice, and found it so difficult to discharge.
Each painful incident he had
just undergone passed in rapid confusion
through his mind. He recalled how Alice
had been talking by the fiferail with Captain
Lovell, when the cry of ' Man overboard
/' had been raised, and he had seen
the baby quickly floating astern, — how he
had knocked that gentleman into the arms
of the bystanders as he jumped to her
rescue, — then the leap from the half-round,
— the cold immersion, — the sight of
the majestic vessel as she sailed away from
them, — the piteous crying of little Winnie,
his strenuous efforts to obtain the life-buoy,
with the child clinging to him for
dear life, and the horrible thought that
they would both be drowned clasped thus

together. Just as his thoughts had reached
their climax, they were disturbed. Bump
went the boat against the iron side, the
tackles were overhauled, and hooked on,
and three of the sailors, with the aid of
a line and the mainbrace, clambered onto
the deck. Hand-overland the slack
was hauled in, and the heads of the crew
appeared above the rail.

Then the order was given to ' Belay,'
and Vernon Blythe, with the child still
clinging to him, stepped on board again.
The quarter-decks crowded. Everybody
wished to congratulate him, and embrace
little Winnie ; a dozen hands were stretched
out to grasp his own. But Jack had no
time to attend to anybody. He strode
past all the faces that beamed upon him,
until he had reached the side of Mrs
Leyton, and placed her child upon her lap.

Oh, Jack ! my dear boy, how shall
we ever thank you ? ' cried the poor
mother hysterically, as she clasped her
baby in her arms.

By saying nothing about it, Mrs
Leyton,' he answered cheerily; ' you know
I would have done as much for any one of
you, twice over.'

1 My darling Winnie ! ' exclaimed
Alice, as she smothered her little sister's
face in kisses. ' What should we have
done if we had lost you ? '

Brother Jack picked me out of the
water,' said Winnie, who had begun to
realise she was safe, and might leave off
crying.

At that name, Alice blushed scarlet.

1 Give her to me, mother,' she said
hurriedly ; ' I must change her clothes at
once.'

'Yes, Miss Alice, and put her in a
hot bath, and then into bed until tomorrow
morning,' interposed Dr Lennard,
or she will be ill.'

I will, doctor ; come, darling,' continued
Alice, as she seized Winnie in her
arms, and without noticing Jack, or
giving him one word of thanks, passed

through the crowd into the cabin passage,
and out of sight. She was too conscience-stricken
to be able to trust herself to
thank him for his bravery. But Jack,
who had been looking forward to her
expressions of gratitude for the risk he
had run on her sister's behalf, only
thought she under-rated it, and gazed
after her in disappointed silence.

Come, Blythe ! how do you feel ? ' inquired
Dr Lennard, shaking him by the
arm ; ' you must not get sleepy, you know.'

Oh, I'm all right, doctor, thank you,
and none the worse for my swim, though
it was plaguey cold, I can tell you.'

You must come with me and have a
pick-me-up,' said the doctor.

No, thanks, sir ! don't trouble about
me ! A good stiff glass of grog and a
change of linen are all I want.'

Well, go and strip off those wet togs
then, my boy, whilst I mix a steaming
jorum for you,' replied Dr Lennard.
You've done a good day's work, Blythe,

and we mustn't let you suffer for it.
Come along at once,' and he pulled the
young officer away with him.

When both Jack and the baby had disappeared,
and the passengers had discussed
the adventure in all its bearings, their excitement
toned down, and they returned
to their usual avocations, whilst the
Pandora, with her mainsail set, sailed on
at seven knots an hour.

But in the afternoon, when little Winnie
was wrapt in peaceful slumber, and Jack
was on deck attending to his duty, Alice
Leyton came up to him, with flushed
cheeks and outstretched hands.

Jack,' she said (and her voice seemed
unaccountably tender to him, after the somewhat
frivolous manner in which she had
treated him of late), ' we have so much to
thank you for, we don't know how to do it.
I hope you did not think it unkind of me
not to come before, but mother has been
quite ill from the shock and the excitement,
and there has been no one to look

after baby but myself. It was so
courageous — so brave — so good of you
to peril your life for — for — '

Pray don't say another word about it,
Alice. It was only my duty, and there
was but little danger. Any man in my
position would have done the same.'

1 But no man did she answered quickly
; ' all the rest stood by like sheep. The
only one beside yourself who rendered
the least assistance was Mr Fowler, who
cut away the life-buoy, and threw it
overboard.'

1 They were not in my position, Alice.
Think how long we have been friends.
Do you suppose I could have looked onto
see any one whom you care for drown ?
I thought you had a better opinion of
me than that.'

1 I think you are the best and the kindest
and the bravest friend I ever had,'
replied Alice, with a sob in her throat ;
1 and if I could only repay you — but that
is impossible — but if I could only show you

some kindness, in return for all you have
done for us to-day, I should be so happy.'

You can repay me amply,' said Jack,
1 and that is by being open with me, Alice.
I know that you have something on your
mind which you are unwilling to confide
to me. This is not as it should be.
Friends in our position should trust each
other all in all or not at all. If you
consider that you owe me any return
for your sister's safety, give it me in your
confidence.'

1 Oh, Jack ! how shall I tell you ?
sobbed Alice. 'You are so sweet and
good. I admire and I love you so much
and yet — and yet — '

Shall I try and help you, dear ? When
baby found herself in my arms, she whimpered
"Brother Jack picked me up!"
I think that is the name you would like
to call me by, as well as baby. I think
you want me to be " Brother Jack " to
you.'

1 Oh, Vernon ! have you guessed ? ' cried

Alice, turning her crimson face away from
him.

That you would be quite ready to
accept Lovell's addresses were you only
freed from mine ? Yes, Alice. I have
guessed as much as that. Am I right ? '

But won't it — won't it hurt you ? ' she
whispered.

1 Not very much. My vanity may
suffer a little, but that is wholesome
discipline. And I have feared, too, for
some time past, that we were not quite
suited to each other ; so you see it will
be for the best after all. Only, Alice,
we must always be friends,' he continued,
as he held out his hand.

1 Oh, yes, Jack — dear Jack ! ' she answered,
with her bright eyes swimming
in tears ; ' and sometimes I think — sometimes
I almost wish — '

Think and wish nothing, Alice, except
what concerns yourself and Captain Lovell,'
interposed Jack, who had a wholesome
horror of a sentimental scene in public,

and was somewhat afraid also of what
she might be going to say. ' He seems
a very good sort of fellow to me, and I
have no doubt he will make you happy.
And you may rely on my good wishes,
not only for the wedding, but all your
future life. And now, good-bye, dear,
for I have business below. Give my
love to your mother, and tell her how
thankful I am for baby's safety, and how
glad that both your hearts are set at
rest.'

He waved his hand gaily to her ashe
disappeared, and Alice believed he
was merely acting a part to hide his
disappointment.

But (had she known it) his heart was
far lighter than his action. A load had
been lifted off it. He felt — for the first
time — that he was free (in all honour) to
woo and win Iris Hetherley !

VOL. 11. h

CONFIDENCES.

ANY landsmen may wonder why
vessels bound south go so far
to the westward, instead of
making a direct course through the tropics.
It is because the trades are so much
stronger on the other side that they adopt
the longer route, in order to make a quicker
passage.

For the same reason, the Pandora,
after skirting the coast of Brazil, sailed
as far south as fifty-two degrees, that is,
six hundred miles to the south of the
Cape of Good Hope, where the westerly
breezes could be depended on.

As the ship drew nearer the Antarctic
regions, the weather became colder. The
boatswains' and 'boobies' were left astern,
and black - speckled Cape pigeons and
snowy albatrosses were to be seen in
their stead. The lively skipjacks, bright-coloured
sonatas, and swift dolphins had
all disappeared, but monster whales, that
swam majestically after the vessel, denoting
their presence by squirting up
volumes of water through their blow-holes,
and boisterous porpoises, that gambolled
under the boom, and indulged in
clumsy antics, supplied the deficiency.
The sky wore a leaden appearance. The
air was exhilarating, and the wind sharp
and keen. No one complained now of
the oppressive heat. The ladies packed
away their fans again, and came on deck
in their furs. The sailors no longer ran
about in white ducks and with bare feet,
but put on strong Quarters, pilot trousers,
and sea-boots.

And all hands hailed the change with

gladness. The heat at times had made
the passengers both languid and discontented.
It was difficult to rest either by
day or night in the hot and stuffy saloon
or the close cabins. But now they felt
compelled to be on the move. The
stove was surrounded all day by a flock
of petticoats, and at night the dead lights
were firmly screwed up to prevent the
chilly air from penetrating the sleeping
berths. On one of these raw evenings
few ventured to show their faces on deck.
Some of the ladies were sitting with the
card players in the smoking-room, a small
party was assembled in Vernon's berth
speculating on rouge-eth noir, and two
women, seated in the second cabin, were
engaged in earnest conversation. They
were Maggie Greet and Iris Harland.
The servant was seated at her mistress's
feet, with her hands firmly clasped on
Iris's knees as she looked up into her
beautiful face and told her story. It had
taken Maggie a long time to summon

up courage to confide the news of her
engagement to Will Farrell to her friend
and mistress. For some unaccountable
reason, the girl had felt strangely shy
about disclosing her good fortune, and
she might not have confessed it even
now, had not something occurred connected
with it, which she felt it incumbent
that Iris should know. But
she told the tale with such a burning
face, and so many interruptions, that her
hearer could only imagine she was too
happy to be coherent.

Oh, my dear,' Iris exclaimed, when
she had at last arrived at a knowledge
of the facts, ' I am so glad ! And you
have been engaged to Mr Farrell fora
whole * fortnight, and never told
me of it ? What a naughty girl !
Didn't you know that I should be the
very first to congratulate you on your
good luck ? For you are very lucky,
you know, Maggie. Fancy, finding a
husband before you even touch land !

And such a good one too ! For I am
sure Mr Farrell will be good to you, my
dear ! He has a true face, and you will
be a happy woman ! I am very, very
glad.'

And Iris stooped down, and kissed
Maggie's forehead.

Oh, don't do that ! ' cried the girl
hurriedly. ' I ain't worthy of it, mistress,
nor of nothing that's happened tome
neither, and I've told Will as much.
Only he's good enough to overlook all
my faults, and say he'll take me as I
am. And you'll come and live with us,
won't you, my pretty ? We'll all go
straight up into the bush as soon as
ever we land, and there I'll work to my
life's end to try and make you comfortable
and happy.'

My dear Maggie,' remonstrated Iris,
'you forget. Mr Harland is on board,
and I have taken this step to be with
him. It is an immense load off my mind
to think you are so happily provided for,

for I have always been fearful lest he
should resent your having accompanied
me ; but my place is by his side, and as
soon as ever we come in sight of land,
I shall walk boldly up to him and declare
myself. I hate the thought of it,'
continued Iris, with the tears in her soft
eyes. ■ I despise him, and I fear
him. But it is his business to maintain
me, and my right to demand support
from him, and I mean to have
it.'

1 But, mistress said Maggie, in an
earnest tone, ' you mustn't go with him.
It isn't safe. He is a bad man — ah,
much worse than you've ever thought of!
and he'd kill you as soon as look at
you if you happened to be in his way.
Don't think of it any more. He's made
you miserable all along, and he'll make
you miserable again. Come with Will
and me, and forget all about that brute.
And after a while, perhaps, you'll meet
with some one as will make you really

happy, and then all the past will look
like a bad dream to you.'

But, Maggie,' replied Iris, with mild
astonishment, ' you forget that I am married
to him. How can I get free, or
have the liberty to think of another man ?
Whilst Mr Harland lives, I must bear my
burden as best I can.'

I don't know that,' said Maggie oracularly.
' He may free you himself, and
sooner than you think for, if you'll only
leave him alone, and give him enough
rope to hang himself with.'

Maggie! What do you mean? Have
you heard anything ? You see I am
afraid even to talk with the other passengers,
for fear of my identity becoming
known ! '

1 You talk with Mr Blythe sometimes,
and I should think he was a very nice
young man to talk with, too,' remarked
Maggie dryly.

Iris blushed crimson.

Oh, yes ! he is very kind. I knew

him years ago in Scotland, Maggie. But,
of course, I never speak to him of Mr
Harland. Indeed, I was so afraid he
might find out something about us, that
I told him I was a widow, for which I
have often been sorry since. But do
tell me what you meant by saying
that.'

Well, I meant this, mistress. That
that villain (thinking he has got well rid
of you and me) is making up to another
woman.'

What woman ? Who told you so ? '
demanded Iris quickly.

No one told me. I can see it for
myself, and all the ship knows it.
Though I keep my face well covered
when I go on deck, I don't shut my
eyes, I can tell you ; and there I see
him, day after day, and night after night,
by the side of the same young lady,
whispering in her ear, and goggling at
her with those great black eyes of his.
So I asked Will their names (just as if

it was for curiosity), and he said they
was a Mr Harland and a Miss Vansittart;
and she's a great heiress, and they
are to be married as soon as they get
ashore. I said he looked a bad 'un, and
I wouldn't trust him with the change fora
brass farthing ; and then Will told me
something about him that — Well, he
bound me to secrecy, but all I can say,
my pretty, is that the brute's in your
power whenever you choose to make use
of the knowledge.'

'In my power,' repeated Iris dreamily.

She had grown very pale, and clenched
her hand as Maggie spoke of her husband's
threatened infidelity ; for though
a woman may have learnt through much
tribulation to hate and despise a man,
she does not hear with equanimity that
he is about to insult and pass her over
for another. But as the girl declared
that Harland was ' in her power,' her
look of anger changed to one of determination.


1 Tell me directly she cried, clutching
her arm. 'How is he in my power?
What can I do to revenge myself on
him?'

4 Why, mistress, you frighten me ! ' exclaimed
Maggie. ' I never saw you look
like that before. W T hy should you care
what such a black-hearted villain says or
does, except it be to set you free — '

1 Free ! Free ! What would be the
good of freedom to me, Maggie ? Do
you suppose I would ever take advantage
of it — to go in bondage to another
man ? But Mr Harland shall not marry
this girl. He shall not aggrandise himself
at her expense and mine ! He shall
not ruin another life, and make another
woman curse the day she ever met him !
No ! not if I can prevent it ! I have
suffered so deeply — I have wept so much
on account of him, that I feel as if I
could lay down my life to save a fellow-creature
from the same miserable fate !
He shall not marry Miss Vansittart,

Majestie ! He shall not even continue to
court her, if I can prevent it ! But how
how ? '

She clasped her head with her hands,
and bowed herself over the table.

'Mistress, dear!' cried Maggie. 'My
pretty, don't take on ! Oh, the brute
ain't worth a single tear ! If you knew
as much as I do, you'd say so too ! '

1 1 do say so, and I believe it. Maggie,
what shall I do ? '

1 Will you speak to Will, my dear ?
Will you tell him you're that man's
wife, and ask his advice ? He can give
it better than I. And he can tell you
something (that I aren't) as will show
you that Mr Harland's worse than you
ever thought him.'

And here she whispered in her mistress's
ear.

Oh, how dreadful ! how awful it allis
! ' moaned Iris. ' What shall I do ?
Who shall I go to ? '

Why not speak to Mr Blythe, mistress.

He's young, but he's your friend ;
and he's got a head on his shoulders.
Tell it all to him.'

1 No ! no ! I can't ! ' said her companion,
shaking her head.

'Well, it's the truth,' replied Maggie,
rising to her feet ; ' and, if I was you,
I'd just leave the brute alone till he's
well in the net, and then come down
upon him for bigamy. Why, only think
of it ! You'd be as free as air ! And
if you stop him, you may be bound all
your life.'

1 How can I take my happiness at the
expense of an innocent person, Maggie ? '

Do you mean Miss Vansittart ? I
shouldn't call her innocent ! She's just
as ready to have him as he is her ; and
I bet she's never took the trouble to
ask if he's married or single. Just like
them women ! Ready to jump down any
man's throat,' said Maggie, with as much
indignation as if she had not been a
woman herself. ' Well, I'll leave you

now, my pretty, and go on deck to have
a look after them two, and if I can find
out anything more about their doings,
I'll come back and let you know.'

Yes, do go, dear Maggie. I shall be
better left alone to think out this new
dilemma by myself. Go to your Will,
and be as happy as you can ; but don't
tell him anything about me until we meet
again

As soon as Maggie met Will Farrell,
he saluted her with a fresh story concerning
their mutual enemy. A rumour had
spread about the ship that Harland had
played with marked cards the night before,
when he had been particularly lucky at
Napoleon ; and although there was no
verification of the report, it was generally
known, and every one was looking askance
at him in consequence. Mr Vansittart
was especially disturbed. He had
taken an unusual fancy for Godfrey Har-land,
and, notwithstanding his wife's objections
to the match, he had encouraged

his attentions to his daughter. Now he
heard with consternation that Mr Fowler
had accused Harland in the smoke-room,
of looking over his neighbour's hand, with
the intent to defraud, and he wished
earnestly that he had been a little more
reticent in his manner towards him. The
accusation was a grave one, but it had
gone no farther at the time, although the
scene that ensued had been very noisy.
But it had not been withdrawn, and Mr
Fowler had refused to tender an apology,
so that the rest of the passengers were
beginning not to see Mr Harland when
he approached them.

1 If he ever tries it on again, he'll get
tarred and feathered,' said Farrell, in conclusion.


And serve him right, too,' replied
Maggie imprudently. ' I know Td like
to have the handling of him — the black
villain ! '

Why, Maggie, what do you know
about him ? ' said Farrell, with surprise.

Haven't you told me he ruined your
life, Will, by palming off his own forgeries
upon you ? '

'Yes, so he did, and I'll be even with
him for it yet. But you spoke as if you
had a private grudge against him.'

And so I have,' whispered the girl,
with a sob in her throat. ' Put your head
closer, Will, and you shall know all. You
know I told you I was a bad girl, and
had been ruined by some one who was
worse than myself. Well, that ' s the man.
Godfrey Harland is my seducer.'

1 D — n him ! ' hissed Farrell, between
his teeth ; ' it will be another nail in his
coffin when we settle our accounts. But
how did it happen, my girl ? Where did
you meet him ? Does your mistress
know ? '

Ah ! no, no ! ' cried Maggie, as she
grasped him convulsively ; ' and you must
swear never to tell her, Will. For I've
tried to make it up to her, indeed I have.
I knew I wasn't fit to stay by her side,

and that if she guessed how bad I was,
she'd have sent me away. But she wanted
my help and my protection : that was all
I stayed for. I couldn't bear to leave
her in his clutches — so bad and cruel ashe
is, and so I tried to forget it all, for
her sake. But I hate him all the worse
that he should have tempted me to injure
such a sweet, dear creature as she is, and
as pure as the stars that are shining over
us now.'

But I don't understand you, Maggie.
How can that blackguard's behaviour to
you injure Miss Douglas ? She doesn't
know him, too, does she ? '

Why, she's his wife ! There, now,
I've let the cat out of the bag ; but you'll
keep it sacred, won't you, Will, for my
sake, and the dear mistress, for she don't
want it known just yet ? '

1 His wife ! ' repeated Farrell. ' Why,

I had no idea that he was married. Poor

lady! I do pity her. I'd pity a dog that

was in his power. But how, then, can

vol. 11. 1

he marry Miss Vansittart ? What new-devilry
is he up to ? Maggie, you and I
must prevent this. We have him in our
power.'

1 Yes, yes ; but we must do nothing
until we know it's for the best. Don't
you see, Will, that this is why the mistress
and I have been hiding all the voyage ?
We've been afraid of his seeing us ; and
except he holds his head too high for
the second cabin, he must have done so
before this.'

1 He's got another reason for not caring
for the company of the second cabin,
Maggie said Farrell, laughing. ' He
knows Tm there. I met him before we
came aboard, and warned him to keep
out of my way. But when we get on
shore, we'll cry quits. Don't be in a
hurry, girl. Bide your time, and you'll
see the finest shindy that's ever met your
eyes, as soon as we get on shore

THE WHALER.

,T was an intensely cold morning.
As the sun raised his golden
head of light above the horizon,
huge icebergs could be seen far away to
the southward, looking like monuments of
dazzling crystal; and a westerly wind,
combined with the smell of the bergs, was
sufficient to nip any prominent part of the
face left exposed to its freezing blast. Onboard
the Pandora not a sound was to be
heard, save the footsteps of Mr Coffin, ashe
tramped steadily up and down the
deck, turning an occasional glance upon

the Daisy, a little barque of four hundred
tons, that was sailing alongside of them.
The Daisy was a whaler, built at Glasgow,
and hailing from Peterhead. Her commander,
Captain Rae, was a rough,
weather-beaten old son of Neptune —
stern on duty and fearless of danger ;
but when on shore (which was seldom),
a favourite with women, and beloved of
little children. Everybody in Peterhead
knew Captain Rae, and accorded him
a hearty welcome whenever his barque
anchored in port. The men met him
with outstretched hands ; the women
smiled upon him graciously ; and the
children clung to his sleeves and coattails,
like barnacles on a water-logged
plank.

It won't do to go any further down
south,' he observed to his chief officer,
Mr Green, who had just emerged from
the booby hatch, after taking a cup of
steaming coffee, ' because we shall befalling
in with too much ice, and I like

to give them bergs a wide berth. Besides,
I've a notion we shall fall in with
some fish before long, if that darned
passenger packet to leeward don't scare
'em away. Let her come to two points,'
he called out to the man at the wheel.
1 Keep her due east.'

And the sailor, having put his helm
down, the captain retired to the sanctity
of his cabin. The mate watched him
disappear, and then, unceremoniously
squirting a jet of tobacco juice on the
unholy stoned deck, muttered something
about ' the Pandora s petticoats,' and
commenced to take rapid strides along
the boards. Jabez Aminadab Green
was a down-easter — a tall, lanky fellow,
with long body and spindle-shank legs.
He was some years older than the
skipper — streaks of grey having already
shown themselves in his short greybeard.
His eyes were blue, like blue
glass beads, having no expression in
them. He had hollow cheeks, an

aquiline nose, and a wide mouth, which
was generally kept open to display an
irregular set of teeth, stained and decayed
by the constant use of tobacco.

At four bells all hands on watch
aboard of both crafts turned to — the
sailors of the Pandora being employed
in scrubbing their decks for the reception
of the passengers, whilst the hardy
old whalers lazily crawled out of their
forecastle, and, after dashing a few
buckets of water over the captain's
quarters, betook themselves to the
'tween decks, where they stretched
new lines, and vied with each other in
telling the ' longest twister ' (that is,
in nautical parlance, the most improbable
untruth) they could possibly think of.
When the bells were struck to announce
breakfast aboard the Daisy,
their sound re-echoed on the Pandora,
and the seamen of the . smaller craft
were surprised to see the poop-deck
of their big neighbour crowded with

bright dresses and brighter faces ;
whilst the ladies of the Pandora wondered,
in their turn, at the appearance
of so large a crew on such a little
vessel, and their interest continued
throughout the day.

There she spouts' sang out the
man on the look-out at the fore-topmast
head of the whaler, not half-an-hour
afterwards.

1 Where away ? ' bawled Mr Green.
1 Two points on the starboard bow,'
was the answer.

1 Aye ! aye ! ' said the mate, catching
sight of the whale, as it rose close to
the Pandora.

1 Are there many ? ' hastily inquired
Captain Rae, who had deserted his
breakfast as soon as he heard the
welcome news.

Wal, I guess so, sir,' replied Mr
Green. ' There are some in the wake
of that packet ahead their ; and I saw
one critter breach away here on the

quarter. There he goes again ! ' continued
the mate, pointing to a large
dark object which had leapt right out
of the water, and fallen in again with
a tremendous splash.

When the intelligence reached the
saloon of the Pandora that a school
of whales was playing right under her
bow, the passengers, frantic with excitement,
left their breakfast to take
care of itself, and, gathering together
every spy-glass and binocular that could
be borrowed or stolen, rushed upon
deck, and remained there until the
play was over, and the curtain fell.

The Daisy s helm was put down, and
her foresail laid to the mast, and when her
clew garnets were chock-block, the boats
were quickly but cautiously lowered. The
chief officer, in charge of the first boat, was
stationed in the stern, grasping a long
sweep to steer her with. Six hands on the
thwarts manned the oars, and Christopher
Thommasen, a Norwegian harpooner, with

his deadly weapons, sat in the bow. With
long muffled strokes the rowers laid back
on their blades, and in a short space of
time reached the desired spot, not, however,
before they had ' gallied ' (or alarmed)
one of the ' bulls,' who began to shoot his
spout of water to a great height. Some
of the ' cows ' approached very close to
the boat — so close, indeed, that at times
she was in imminent danger of being
upset, and all hands expected to be
toppled into the water, and delivered over
to the mercy of Davy Jones.

When the old Norwegian, Christopher
Thommasen, had selected his fish, and the
boat was pulled in its wake, the order was
given, ' Stand tip and give it him ! ' and the
harpooner, poising his dart above his head,
and taking careful aim, let the shaft fly
with all his might, and it whizzed through
the air, embedding itself deeply in the
body of the whale.

The wounded creature 'bobtailed,' lashing
the billows with its powerful tail, and

sending up quantities of white foam, which
fell in a heavy shower over the men,
drenching them to the skin.

'Stern all ! ' shouted the mate, perceiving
their danger, and the frail craft was instantly
back-watered out of harm's way.
Finding that this manoeuvre did not dispose
of his assailants, nor relieve him of
the agonising harpoon (which he probably
mistook for the teeth of a swordfish), the
monster of the deep dived to an immense
depth, drawing out the line with amazing
velocity. This is the whale's method of
freeing himself from his piscatorial enemies,
who, being unable (as he is) to
sustain the pressure of a deep ocean, are
compelled to let go of him.

1 There goes flukes,' shouted Thom-
masses, as he saw the whale disappear,
and the men shipped their oars, and prepared
for an exciting chase. Away went
the ' schoolmaster ' at his topmost speed,
rising at intervals to the surface to give
vent to a plaintive moan, and diving again

with breathless rapidity, as he towed his
persecutors through the water after him at
a considerable rate. Then more darts
were planted into the heaving flanks of
the labouring fish, who had commenced to
tremble violently. Red columns of blood
spurted from his wounds, and fell back
upon his aching sides, dyeing the water
around him crimson. Suddenly the
1 flurry ' (which is the whaling term for
the expiring struggles of the fish), and the
sharp, cracking noise which had sounded
from the blow holes, ceased, and the huge
brute turned upwards, and lay upon the
ocean dead. Then the carcase was slowly
towed past the passenger vessel, amidst
the cheers of the spectators, back to the
Daisy, who had got under weigh again,
and made fast to her side by chains.
Two men cut off the ' blanket,' or scarfskin,
with their spades, whilst others
heaved away on the capstan, and turned
the body round. v

The head was taken aboard whole, and

then the operation of ' pleasing,' or cutting
away the blubber, was gone through.
When all the useful parts had been secured
the head, which contains a large amount
of oil — the blubber — the bag, from which
the whalers extract ambergris, and the
teeth — the order was given to ' Haul in
chains' and the huge white carcase floated
astern, and was immediately covered by
myriads of water-fowl, who quarrelled and
fought over their unexpected treat.

The passengers of the Pandora witnessed
the chase and capture from the port
bow of their vessel, and many were their
ignorant conjectures as to the mode of
boiling down and preserving the dead fish,
and they watched the Daisy perseveringly
with their glasses until a large cloud of
black smoke, arising from her cauldrons,
announced that the blubber had been
finally disposed of; and the operation of
whaling ' was over.

DANGER.

BOUT the same time a small
wreath of blue smoke was
observed issuing from one of
the starboard ports of the Pandorass half-round,
and the alarmed steward rushed
upon the quarter-deck, with the terrible
news that the ship was on fire. Vernon
Blythe was the officer to receive it.

Unbeaten the main hatch,' he shouted,
in a loud, clear collected voice to the
carpenter, ' and pass out the kegs of
gunpowder. Now, lads!' he continued,
addressing some of his watch, ' screw on

your hose, and lead it through the skylights



As the women became alive to the
possible danger of their position, they
made confusion worse confounded by
their screams.

1 Jack,' cried Alice Leyton, as she flew
to him for protection, ' where shall we go ?
What shall we do ? We shall all be
burned to death.'

Stay where you are, dear,' he answered,
hastily but kindly, 'and do nothing. It
will all be right in a few minutes. Where
is Lovell ? Go and stay by him till I tell
you all is safe,' and with a nod and a smile
he was off to the scene of action.

Alice rushed to her mother, who was
half-fainting in a wicker chair, and flung
herself at her feet.

4 Oh, he was too good for me, I was a
fool not to see it. If anything happens
to him, I shall never forgive myself,' she
said incoherently, as she began to weep
with fear.

Mrs Vansittart was leaning on her
husband's arm, pale with fright, as she
begged him to say if she had ever failed
in her duty to him during the last twenty
years ; her daughter Grace was trying to
extract some consolation from Godfrey
Harland, who appeared to be more
alarmed than herself, and all the other
passengers were watching the threatened
danger with faces white with suspense
and fear. At the moment of the alarm,
Mr Coffin happened to be between his
blankets, snoring loudly, and Captain
Robarts was in a similar position in his
cabin, but both men were soon awakened
to a sense of what was going on in the
vessel.

Jack Blythe, having given a few instructions
to the crew, rushed down the
narrow passage to the saloon, and having
ascertained from which berth the smoke
was issuing, he entered it without ceremony.
A small box lay upon the floor.
Placing his hand upon the cover, he lifted

it up, but not before the iron bands surrounding
it had burned his palm, and as
soon as it was done, the cabin was illumined
by a sheet of flame. Tearing off
his coat, Jack threw it on the burning
mass, but was obliged immediately to retreat,
half blinded and suffocated by the
dense volumes of smoke his garment produced.
Pressing forward again with a
large glass decanter of water from the
saloon sideboard, he succeeded in extinguishing
the flames in the box, but not
before the bed-clothes were all on fire.

By that time he was joined by some of
the others, amongst whom was Captain
Robarts with the hose, which Jack
snatched from him, and played upon the
burning articles, but the cabin was gutted
and the bulkhead charred before the fire
was out and the danger over.

Jack's hair was scorched by the flame,
and his eyes smarting and blackened by
the smoke, as he emerged from the saloon,
and drew in a deep breath of the fresh air.

Are you hurt, Mr Blythe?' inquired
Captain Robarts, who was proud of his
smart young officer.

Not a bit, sir. My hair won't want
cutting again just yet,' said Jack, passing
his hand over his singed locks ; ' and
the fire caught my ears a little. But
I'm all right, and the ship's all right,
which is much more to the purpose.'

Thanks to your promptitude and
courage, sir,' replied the skipper.

The compliment was formal, but Jack
coloured with pleasure to receive it, from
brow to chin.

How did the fire originate ? Where
did it come from ? Who put it out ?
What damage has it done ? ' were the
queries put by the various passengers,
whose fears soon calmed down as they
were apprised of their safety. But no
one could answer them.

Mr Greenwood, Captain Robarts desires
to see you in the saloon,' said the
steward, when the bustle and confusion
VOL. 11. k

were somewhat abated ; and the young
gentleman followed him to the presence
of the master of the Pandora.

The captain was seated at the table,
with his log-book before him.

1 I have sent for you, Mr Greenwood,'
he commenced, in a stern voice, ' to ask
how this fire originated. The smoke
and the flames came from your cabin,
and I understand you were the last person
to leave it. How did it happen ? '

I'm sure I can't tell you, sir,' replied
young Greenwood, who was trembling
under the captain's gaze.

But no one has been in the berth
but yourself,' rejoined Captain Robarts ;
my steward is a witness to that.'

But I don't think it could have been
me, sir, don't you know ? ' spluttered the
youth, ' because — '

What were you doing there ? ' thundered
the skipper ; ' come, sir, no nonsense
with me. The lives of the whole
ship's company have been endangered,

and I will find out the cause. What
did you come down for ? Tell me at
once. As captain of this vessel, I have
a right to question you.'

Harold Greenwood had heard of other
rights possessed by the captain of a
vessel, such as putting mutinous subjects
under arrest, and fearful of what the
consequences of telling an untruth might
be, he stammered out that he only came
down to fetch a cigarette.

1 And where did you light your cigarette,
Mr Greenwood ?' continued the
captain relentlessly.

1 In the berth,' blurted out the young
man, ' but I threw the match into the
basin, don't you know ? I am sure I did.
I always do ; and that can't do any harm,
eh?'

1 Steward, go with Mr Greenwood,
and get the lucifer out of the basin,'
said the skipper ; and whilst Harold
tremblingly followed the servant, the
captain leaned his head upon his hand,

and seemed lost in thought. The search
was unsuccessful. No trace of a burnt
lucifer could be found in the basin.

But I'm sure I did,' stammered
Greenwood.

1 / will tell you what you did, Mr Greenwood,'
interrupted the captain angrily.
1 You lighted your cigarette, and dropped
the still burning match into the box, and
set fire to my vessel. You are well aware
that smoking is prohibited in the saloon,
yet by your disobedience and carelessness
you have endangered the lives of my
passengers and crew. Had it not been
for the presence of mind of my second
officer, the whole ship would have been
blown out of the water.'

1 I'm sure, sir, I'm very sorry, don't you
know ? '

1 Sorry, sir ! what use would your being
sorry have been when we were all dead
men ? You're a fool, sir, that's what you
are — a d — d fool ! You can leave me now.
I shall enter the facts as they occurred, into

my official log, and you will be charged
with the damages, and I only hope your
father may stop your allowance in consequence,
and leave you less money to waste
on cigarettes and matches, for the future.
I have nothing further to say to you, sir,
and you can go.'

Harold Greenwood sneaked out of the
austere presence, looking very small and
pitiful, and found to his horror, on reaching
the deck, that the whole conversation
had been overheard by the inquisitive
passengers, who had listened attentively
to it through the skylight. And he had
the further mortification of hearing Jack
Blythe's cool-headed pluck lauded on all
sides, by the same tongues that reproached
him for his stupidity and want of care.

Allow me to congratulate you, Blythe,'
said Captain Lovell, ' you possess all the
attributes of a hero.'

1 We owe you a vote of thanks,' added
Mr Vansittart. 'Had it not been for
your courage, sir, we might all have been

blown to smithereens by this time, and our
limbs scattered to the four quarters of the
globe.'

1 But you've lost your coat, I hear,' said
Miss Vere ; ' we must get you the very
best that's made, by general subscription,
Mr Blythe.'

And, oh, Jack, you've hurt your hand ! '
cried Alice Leyton plaintively, ' and your
hair is burnt right off to the roots, in front,
Won't you do anything for yourself, when
you have done so much for us ? '

Belay that, Alice,' replied the young
sailor laughingly. ' You know how I hate
fuss of all sort. And as for my hand, it
is only a little scorched, and will be all
right tomorrow. I've had it twice as sore
after handling the ropes, I can tell you.'

Ah, you never would let any one thank
you, whatever you did for them,' said Alice,
with a sigh.

But there she made a mistake. There
were some thanks that Vernon Blythe accepted
greedily, and treasured the remembrance

of in his heart of hearts. As the
night fell, and he sought out Iris Harland
on the quarter-deck, her hand grasped his
with a feverish pressure.

1 We have heard it all,' she said, with
a warm, grateful light in the eyes she
bent on him ; ' Maggie and I were in the
cabin when the alarm broke out, and at
first I was very much frightened. But
the steward or some one called out that it
was Mr Blythe's watch, and he had gone
to see what it was all about. And then
somehow, I felt quite satisfied. It seemed
as if it must be all right, if you were there

Is that really the case, Iris ? Was the
sense of my presence and protection such
a comfort to you as all that ? '

1 Indeed it was. I have only told you
the truth. You are so brave and strong,
and you seem so fearless yourself, that
you inspire others with courage.'

1 It makes me very happy to hear you
say so. Yet I was not quite so fearless
as you give me credit for, Iris. When I

first perceived the possibility of danger,
the thought of one person on board this
vessel came into my mind, and almost
paralysed me, until the same thought
nerved my arm, and made me feel as if I
could dare and do anything for her sake.'

1 That was the young lady you are engaged
to, Mr Blythe, I suppose. You
see, we hear all the chatter in the second
cabin. Maggie has pointed her out tome
— Miss Leyton, I mean —-and I think
she is very pretty. And, Mr Blythe
continued Iris, in a sweet, faltering voice,
■ I do hope you will be happy with her. I
I — don't think marriage is a very happy
condition myself, but there are always exceptions,
and I shall pray yours may be
one of them.'

I think it will, if it ever comes to pass.
But that will not be with Alice Leyton,
Iris. Maggie and you are both mistaken.
I am not engaged to her, or any woman.
In fact, I believe she is on the point of
being engaged to Captain Lovell.

'Indeed! Then it was not she who
inspired your deed of daring ?'

1 No. Quite another person. But you
must not speak of a common act of duty
by such an absurd name. There was
never any positive danger. A young fool
called Greenwood lit his cigar in the
berth, and dropped the burning lucifer,
which set the whole cabin in a blaze.
Of course, it might have resulted in a
disaster. But it won't do in this life to
calculate on our " might-have-beens," unless
we wish to turn it into a book of
Lamentations.'

Have you missed so many chances,
then, Mr Blythe ? I should not have
thought so.'

I have missed one, Iris, for which no
future success can ever repay me. Cannot
you guess what that was ? '

1 You don't mean that old business at
the Bridge of Allan, surely ? ' she said,
in a low voice.

1 Indeed I do. I do not blame you for

one moment, remember. I know that it
was not your fault, and that I alone was
to blame for my presumption in daring
to love you, but it has spoilt my life.'

They were standing by the side of the
vessel looking into the rushing sea as he
spoke to her, and they were almost alone.
The evening was so cold that none of
the saloon passengers were on the poop,
and the quarter-deck was nearly deserted.
Maggie sat in a sheltered corner under
the long-boat, by the side of Will Farrell,
but they were too far off, and too much
engrossed by each other, to hear what
their companions said. And so Iris,
wrapped in a dark cloak, stood, under the
cover of night, with her sad eyes upraised,
and her pure profile limned against
the evening sky ; and Vernon Blythe
lingered by her side, looking with infinite
love and yearning on her face. He was
dreaming all sorts of wild, impossible
dreams as he did so, but the wakening was
coming to him only too soon.

I It has spoilt your life,' repeated Iris,
in a tone of incredulity. ' Oh, don't say
that, Mr Blythe. You make me feel so
very miserable and guilty.'

Have I not just said that I acquit you
of any intentional unkindness ? How
could you have been expected to believe
that such a lad as I was should presume
to lift his eyes to you ? But, you see, I
couldn't help it. It was a sort of fate
with me. I saw you and loved you from
the beginning, and since then I have
tried to put you out of my mind by every
possible means, in vain. You will stick
there. You are so obstinate.'

Iris laughed faintly.

I am very, very sorry. I must seem
like an obstinate Irish tenant to you, who
pays no rent, and yet refuses to turn out.
Why don't you evict me ? '

I I wouldn't evict you if I could,' said
the young man warmly.

I don't think,' went on Iris dreamily,
that I quite knew what I was about in

those days, Mr Blythe. I was only
eighteen, yon know (I am twenty-three
now), and I had lived all my life in the
country with my father, and he never
looked after me, or advised me, as my
mother would have done. If my poor
mother had lived, I don't think I should
ever have married — as I did marry. But
I was so ignorant. I knew nothing.'

'Iris,' said Vernon suddenly, 'tell me
all about your marriage. I never heard
more than the mere facts. I don't even
know your married name, unless it was
Douglas." But why do you call yourself
" Miss ? " Why are you going out
to Dunedin ? What was your husband,
and when did he die ? Would it be painful
for you to tell me all this ? '

1 Very painful. Please don't ask me.
My past life is like a bad dream to me

Then you were not happy with him ? '

'No.'

'Did he dare to ill-treat you?' exclaimed
Vernon.

Iris was silent.

1 My God ! ' cried the young man
fiercely ; ' were he only on earth, he
should answer to me for this.'

Hush ! hush ! Mr Blythe. Let us
drop the subject. It is all over now
said Iris trembling

But is it all over ? Can any future
life (however happy) give you back your
peace of mind, your lovely, girlish innocence,
your health and strength ? I parted
with you rich in every gift that youth
and hope can give — able and willing to
speak of yourself, your past and your
future ; I meet you again, broken in
health and spirits, with dark passages in
your life which you dare not speak of —
with no prospects, and no friends. Iris,
it is killing me ! I was a boy then, it is
true, without future, or experience, or anything
to recommend me in your eyes.
But I loved you, passionately and devotedly,
and even though you did not
love me, I could have made you happier

than this. Oh, why did you throw yourself
away on a man who could not appreciate
you ? '

How can I answer a question to you
which I cannot answer to myself. I
suppose I was mad, or blind. He was
good-looking, and an adept at deception,
and I was too inexperienced to distinguish
the true metal from the false.
Don't blame me for it too much, Mr
Blythe. I liked you very much. I felt
honoured by your preference, and I have
never forgotten it since. But you seemed
such a boy to me then, and I did not
know — I could not tell — ' she faltered,
breaking down.

But I am not a boy now,' urged
Vernon eagerly ; ' I was twenty-five last
birthday. You will not accuse me again
of not knowing my own mind. Oh, Iris,
I have never ceased to love, and dream
of you. In my lonely watches, in tempests
and in calm — from the torrid to
the frigid zone — it has been all the same.

Your dear image, the echo of your voice,
the crumbs of comfort you threw to mein
my distress, have been hugged to my
heart as its best treasures. And it will
be so till I die, even should I live for
another half century.'

1 What am I to say to you ? ' she
answered, weeping, ' except that it can
never, never he. Oh, Mr Blythe, don't talk
to me of love. It is useless! It can end
in nothing ! I — I — must not listen to you.

But why ? What is the obstacle ?
Do you love any one else ? '

Iris shook her head.

1 And do you dislike me ? '

She did not shake her head this time,
but she looked up at the sky, and he could
see the large tears that stood in her eyes,
course slowly down her cheeks.

Oh, my darling ! ' he exclaimed rapturously,
as he threw his arms around her,
1 I have conquered at last. You need not
trouble yourself to give me any other
answer.'

But Iris twisted herself out of his embrace,
and turned her pale face towards
him.

Don't ! Pray, pray, don't ! ' she said
earnestly. ' I — I — cannot bear it ! I appreciate
all you have said to me at its full
value, and I shall never forget it. But
there it must end ! For I have deceived
you, Mr Blythe ! I am not a widow ! I —
I — am still married!

As this announcement left her lips,
Vernon Blythe felt as if he had been
struck right across the face. He turned
as white as a sheet, looked her fixedly in
the eyes for a moment, then dropping
her hand, he turned on his heel, and
walked silently away.

SHIPPING SEAS.

STRONG westerly wind
coursed the Southern ocean,
and gigantic green waves rolled
on all sides of the Pandora, sometimes
rushing up against her with pugilistic
violence, and depositing tons of water
on her deck. White clouds drifted
across the heavens with tremendous speed,,
upon a background of cerulean blue. A
grey bank, however, that stretched from
aft to the starboard beam, betokened the
advent of hail, or snow, whilst the sun

VOL. II. l

struggled at times to pour his feeble rays
upon the surface of the deep.

The Pandora was running before the
gale. Her mainsails and crossjack were
stowed, to permit the foresail to have full
play, which bellied out to such an extent
that it pressed tightly against the sheepskin
chafing-gear on the forestry. The
fore-topmast staysail and inner jib, flapping
idly to and fro, might have had the
gaskets round them, for all the good that
they were doing, and the smaller sails on
the mizen were furled, to keep the main
royal and top-gallant sail full, lest she
should take in too much water aft.

The heavy swells made the ship roll
violently, often dipping her main bumpkins
into the water, and agitating the
compass card to such an extent that the
man at the wheel could not depend on its
accuracy, for ascertaining the true position
of the vessel's head.

At mid-day the sun had risen behind a
squall, and Captain Robarts, after waiting

patiently for twenty minutes, with sextant
in hand, carried his instrument below
again, and went to luncheon, not, however,
without a growl at the obstructing
cloud which prevented his getting the
meridian altitude.

The hour for lunch was gladly welcomed
by the passengers that day, for
their appetites had been sharpened by
the keen wind, and punctual to the
moment, all were seated in their accustomed
places.

Vernon Blythe, arrayed in his long silk
oilskin coat and ' sour-wester,' having
relieved Mr Coffin, was in charge of the
vessel, and the watch were huddled together
round the mainmast, standing by
to take his orders.

As the sky became darker with the
squall, large flakes of snow fell upon the
deck, and increased in number, until the
Pandora was enveloped in a blinding
sheet of white.

1 It is useless to look at the compass,'

said Vernon Blythe, as he watched the
helmsman trying to clear the face with
his mitten. ' Watch her head, man, and
give her as few spokes as possible.'

The Pandorass steering-gear was of
the latest invention, and a reliable quartermaster
would have found no difficulty in
guiding her on her course. But the man
at the helm had been taught to steer by
the compass only, and when the snow
covered the glass of the binnacle and
obscured the points, he was utterly at a
loss how to proceed, and quite unfit, inconsequence,
for the responsible post he
held.

When, therefore, the ship ran off her
course, he gave her so many spokes that
she came flying to — the weather leeches
shivered, the head sails filled, and she
shipped an enormous sea, which thumped
upon the deck right amidships, and ran ina
boisterous torrent forward.

Vernon Blythe saw the ship's mad
capering, and shouted to the helmsman

to put his helm up, before she was broadside
on. But he was too late. The
mischief was done. With the backward
roll of the Pandora, as she lifted over the
swells, the mighty stream of water flowed
aft. The steward, unprepared for such a
disaster, had not shipped the weather
board, and the sea poured through the
cabin passage, taking him clean off his
legs, and drenching both himself and a
roast turkey, which he was about pompously
to place on the saloon table, with
salt water.

The sailors at the main, knowing what
to expect when scudding with such a sea,
jumped on the fiferail, and clung to the
crossjack braces, thus saving themselves
a ducking.

But the assault was not yet over. Immediately
succeeding the first sea, a
second cataract of water leapt over at
the main chains, and doubled the large
amount which was already aboard. At
this disaster, dismay and confusion reigned

paramount in the saloon. Ladies and
gentlemen left their luncheon alike, as the
latter rushed about to see if they could
render any serviceable assistance, and the
former, with piteous little shrieks for help,
lifted their petticoats, and jumped on the
seats, to keep their feet out of the water.

'We are going down ! ' cried Mrs Vansittart.
' Oh, John, I knew no good
would come of our going to England.'

Mother ! ' screamed Alice Leyton, ' the
sea is filling the ship ! Oh, where is
Jack ? '

1 Don't leave me, Godfrey,' murmured
Grace Vansittart, as she clung to her
lover's shoulders.

Ladies, I beg of you not to be alarmed.
I can assure you there is not the slightest
danger,' commenced Captain Robarts ;
but an accident, which had its comical
as well as its serious side, prevented the
conclusion of his sentence. The benches
on which the party had been seated were
made of oak, with broad backs, fastened

to the deck on either side with brass
screws. Consequently, when the ladies
scrambled on them, and stood as far
back as they possibly could, with their
skirts gathered in their hands, the whole
of their weight was thrown on the supports.
The oaken benches were strong,
but the fastenings were not, and the
unusual strain drew the screws from their
hold, and caused the entire structure to
give way. With piercing screams and
exclamations, clutching at the fiddles and
the tablecloths, and dragging the china and
glass on the top of them, the men and
women were precipitated backwards into
the stream of water, where they lay in a
confused heap, struggling and spluttering,
but unable to extricate themselves. Their
heads were against the doors and partitions
of the private cabins, whilst their
bodies rested on the seats of the benches,,
which were partly underneath them. The
deplorable but ridiculous scene can better
be imagined than described. Rolls, pats

of butter, cold chickens, potatoes, and
empty bottles of beer were floating about
the cabin floor, whilst the dish-covers and
glasses were mostly in their laps, or
surging against their faces. The men
could not move, any more than their fair
companions, and whilst some swore and
others sobbed with fright and humiliation,
the cold salt water kept 'swishing' over
them all.

Captain Robarts, from his arm-chair of
state, viewed the accident as an everyday
occurrence, and awaited its termination
with complacency, not offering the
slightest assistance to any one. But Mr
Coffin, with his mouth full of roast goose
and a wicked smile of amusement on his
face, gallantly went to the rescue. Mrs
Vansittart was the first saved from the
deluge, with the colour considerably lessened
in her honest, rosy face. Captain
Lovell was next hauled out, but he made
light of the affair, and burst into a loud
laugh, which was instantly stopped by

the aggrieved and indignant looks of Alice
Leyton.

How can you laugh in that unfeeling
way,' she said, ' when I feel bruised allover
? But of course you're not hurt
yourself, and so it does not signify. Men
are the most selfish creatures in the
world.'

1 By Jove ! it's spoilt my new suit,
though, don't you know?' observed Mr
Greenwood, looking the picture of misery,
as he examined the state of his
garments.

1 You did your best to burn us out
of house and home the other day, Mr
Greenwood,' said the captain grimly, ' so
you mustn't be surprised if no one sympathises
with you over a ducking.'

We shall be none the worse for it,'
remarked Mr Fowler, shaking himself
like a huge water-dog ; ' it's the ladies
"who are to be pitied for wetting their
pretty dresses, and prettier faces.'

But the women did not wait to be

condoled with. As soon as they had
regained a normal position, and ascertained
there was nothing to be frightened
at in ' shipping a sea they ran
away to their berths to change their
clothes, and recover the shock sustained
by their modesty.

In the second cabin the passengers had
not escaped a wetting. Plenty of water
had penetrated the hatch, and made their
abode damp and uncomfortable, and it
was not until the first dog-watch had
commenced, and the swinging lamps were
lit, that they could sit with dry feet in
the general dining-room.

My pretty,' whispered Maggie Greet,
as she crept up to Iris's side for a moment,
' you'll have to keep to your
berth this evening, if you don't want to
have a shindy, for Will says as les
coming down to play here with the others

Mr Harland?' exclaimed Iris, blanching
like a lily. ' Oh, Maggie ! why does
he come here ? Who asked him ? '

I don't know, dear. Not Mr Farrell,
you may be sure, for they hate each
other like poison. But Will says he's
been kicked out of every other cabin.
They're fighting very shy of him upstairs,
as well they may. And he overheard
a gentleman asking Mr Harland
why he didn't come down and play on
the lower deck, and he said he'd try it
to-night. So be on your guard, that's
all.' ^

'What shall I do?' said Iris distressfully.
' If he takes to it as a custom, he
will drive me to take refuge in my
berth every evening. I never thought
the saloon passengers would be allowed
down here.'

Well ! I expect, if you want to get
rid of him, you've only to show yourself.
I believe he'd rather see the devil just
now than you. For he don't interfere
with his wickedness, but pott will ! It
would be all up with his game with Miss
Vansittart, if you told your true name

to the captain ! Wouldn't it, my
dear ? '

And that is what I shall be compelled
to do, Maggie, sooner or later.
I cannot stand by and see him commit
such a wickedness, and hold myself guiltless.'


Not even if you could have Mr —
I mean a better man instead of him
insinuated Maggie.

No, Maggie ! a better man wouldn't
take me on such conditions. But I don't
want to shame Mr Harland before all
the ship, if a more private means of
warning him will have the same effect.
I sit sometimes for hours and try to
decide what will be for the best, and
I always come to the same conclusion —
that I am one of the most unfortunate
women on the face of the earth.'

Never mind, my pretty,' whispered
Maggie consolingly, ' it'll all come right
some day. I have doubts about myself
sometimes, because I've been a wicked

girl, and it don't seem right as I should
be happy. But I've none about you!
I can see it as plain as a picture, and if
I don't live to see it, it will be all the
same. You'll have a good man and a
true, please God, some day, to make upto
you for the past I '

And Maggie turned away with a sob.

Why, dear Maggie ! what's the matter
with you to-night ? '

Nothing, mistress, only Will's too
good to me sometimes, and makes me
so ashamed of myself. But there now,
the gentlemen are beginning to comedown
for their game, so I must runaway,
and you'd better do the same.'

And so the two women, who owed
much of their immunity from discovery
to Will Farrell's careful look out on their
behalf, kissed each other, and separated
for the night.'

The origin of this conversation was,
that since the breaking up of the card-parties
in the smoke-room, owing to the

loose play of Godfrey Harland, the deck-house
had been deserted of an evening,
and the gentlemen had betaken themselves
elsewhere.

Some played in the spacious berth of
the second officers, others preferred the
society of the ladies, and a few were invited
to the second cabin, where smoking
was not prohibited, and their less aristocratic
fellow-passengers did their utmost
to make them feel at home.

Many a game at dominoes or whist had
been played there lately by the men from
the saloon, who had become so friendly
with its rightful owners that they did not
even wait for an invitation. Besides, in
many respects, the second cabin was preferable
to the backhouse. In the former
the steward was always at hand to provide
refreshments, whilst in the latter, if a man
wished for anything, he was compelled to
go on deck and find the head steward,
which interrupted the game, and annoyed
all concerned.

Since the guardroom had been closed,
Godfrey Harland's time hung heavily
upon his hands. He was not quite so
bold and open as he had been in paying
court to Grace Vansittart. He fancied her
father and mother looked somewhat more
coolly on him than they had done at first,
and preferred whispering ' soft nothings '
to her, when they found themselves alone.
So he did not care to be shut up in the
state cabin all the evening, where every
look he gave, and word he uttered, was
seen, heard, and commented upon. He
was debarred from entering the berth of
Vernon Blythe. An instinctive dislike
existed between these two young men,
and made itself apparent every time they
met. So the only resource left to him
seemed the second cabin, to which a young
fellow of the name of Pemberton had
warmly invited him. Harland knew he
should meet Will Farrell there, but on the
whole he thought it advisable he should
meet and make friends with him before

they parted company. But he little thought
how much more Farrell knew of him now
than he had done when they last saw each
other. Had he done so, he would have
known he had better have entered a
cockatrice's den than the second cabin of
the Pandora.



A GAME OF DOMINOES.

Good - EVENING, Mr Har-land.

You are a stranger here
said Farrell, as he entered. ' I
thought you were going to slight your
humble friend (meaning myself) throughout
the voyage, but — '

So you have met before,' interrupted
Mr Pemberton, who was of the party.

Oh, yes, we have met before — many
years ago,' drawled Harland.

When we were clerks in the same
office,' put in Farrell.

1 Quite a boyish acquaintance,' said the

VOL. II. M

other, with an uneasy laugh, for Farrell's
manner had annoyed him.

Many people say that boyish acquaintances
last the longest, and are the least
soon forgotten,' remarked Pemberton.

I don't think Mr Harland and I shall
forget each other in a hurry,' laughed
Farrell sarcastically. ' The memory of
Mr Horace — I mean of the office and all
that occurred there, will follow me to my
grave ! '

Come, come ! Let us get to business ! '
interposed Pemberton, seeing that the two
men were at daggers-drawn with one
another, though for what cause was a
mystery to him. ' Shall we make up a
four at dominoes ? '

I am agreeable ! ' returned Farrell.

1 And so am I,' said Harland ; i will the
ladies join us ? '

I am afraid not,' answered Farrell.
4 The deck is too wet for them ; but I will
ask, if you like.'

To his entreaties at the doors of the

ladies' berths he received nothing but
negatives. Miss Douglas was already
in bed, Miss Grant was afraid of the
damp, and Mrs Medlicott was nursing a
sick child. But a volunteer was soon
found in the person of Bob Perry.

What do you play for ? ' inquired
Harland, when they had turned up the
two highest and lowest, and Farrell and
Pemberton had been elected partners.
What do you say to threepence each
on the pips that stand out ? '

Oh, no ! ' exclaimed Perry, ' that is
too much. It may run up to a matter
of five shillings a game, and I can't
afford it'.

Well, we can't play for love,' sneered
Harland ; * never you mind, Perry, I'll
stand bail for both of us.'

I object to that,' said Farrell. ' I do
not wish to play for such high stakes
any more than Mr Perry. I am simply
playing to make the time pass, and
don't want to make or lose money

by the game. You forget, Mr Harland,
that we are not all like yourself, on a
trip for pleasure / '

He emphasised the words unpleasantly,
and Harland swore under his breath,
but answered nothing-suppose

we play for threepence a
game,' suggested Mr Pemberton. ' As
Farrell says, we don't want to make
money by the stones. All that is necessary
to give zest to the victory is a
small stake that shall benefit the winner
without breaking his companions.'

1 All right,' assented Harland, in anything
but a good humour ; ' go ahead.
Double six begins. But, stop a minute.
Before we start, we will toss for drinks
round.'

To this proposition the other men
were not strong-minded enough to object,
and the silver coins were spun in the
air, and clinked upon the table, resulting,
luckily for them, in Godfrey Har-land
having to pay the forfeit, and the

steward was despatched to the bar with
the orders.

The game was finished, and the players
tossed again, and the stones were divided,
and so it went on until five bells
was struck, which was the signal for all
the ship lights to be extinguished.

'Lights out, please!' sung out the
third officer at the booby hatch.

In one minute, Mr Sparkles replied
Harland. ' Let us finish the game, there's
a good fellow.'

It is against the rule,' said the junior
mate ; ' I cannot disobey my orders.'

1 Come down and have a glass of
whisky, then,' urged Mr Pemberton ;
1 we have more than half a bottle
left.'

To this invitation Mr Richard
Sparkes did not reply that he could not
disobey orders, but glancing aft to satisfy
himself that the ' old man ' was not on
deck, he quickly descended the companion,
and stepping up to the table,

muttered his thanks, and swallowed the
intoxicating draught.

You understand, don't you, Sparkes,'
said Harland ; ' we shan't be a minute, old
man. Just shut down the hatch, and cover
it with a tarpaulin, and if that d — d inquisitive
second mate of yours discovers
the glim, I'll take the blame on myself.'

Whereupon, without another word, the
third officer left them to their pursuits.
When the game had come to a conclusion,
Pemberton signified his intention
to turn in, and bidding them goodnight,
went to his cabin. Bob Perry,
who was half seas over, also retired,
and the two belligerents were alone
together. It was for this that Farrell
had taken a hand at the game. It
was to this end he had worked to
find himself cheek - by - jowl with the
man he hated more readily than he
had ever done before. He thirsted to
put a spoke in Harland's wheel, — to
alarm him thoroughly, — to show a little

of his own hand, but not too much, and
make him uncomfortable for the remainder
of the voyage.

Drink up and have some more,' said
Harland, breaking the silence that ensued
on the departure of their companions.

I don't care for any. I have had
enough,' replied Farrell, lying back in
his chair. ' Well, our journey will soon
be over now. What do you intend to do
when we reach Lyttleton ? '

I don't know, I'm sure,' returned
Harland. ' I shall enjoy myself as long
as I find anything worth enjoying, and
then, perhaps, take a trip over to America,
and visit some of my friends there.'

But I thought you had taken service
under Mr Vansittart, and were bound to
remain with him ? ' said Farrell.

Godfrey Harland opened his eyes with
astonishment.

Then you are under a great delusion.
I have certainly promised to be the guest
of the Vansittartss for a short time, and

circumstances may arise to detain me
longer, but there is no obligation in the
matter, unless it be on my side.'

Oh ! indeed. People say otherwise
on board. I have heard it stated confidently
that you are Mr Vansittart's land-agent,
and that he has been imprudent
enough to take you without references.'

D — n their impertinence! 'growled Har-land,
' prying into other people's affairs.
I should like to know the name of the
person who has been spreading these
false reports about me.'

'f shall not tell you,' retorted Farrell.
It is quite immaterial to me whether
you keep Mr Vansittart, or Mr Vansittart
keeps you, but I should think the
latter by far the most probable of the
two. And is it true that you intend to
marry his daughter ? '

1 It is no business of yours if I do.'
Certainly not. It's no business of
mine if you turn Mormon, which, I suppose,
is the next thing you'll think of.'

1 What do you mean by making that
remark ? ' said Harland, turning pale.

Only that English laws are in force
in the colonies, and a man is only allowed
to have one wife at a time.'

What would you insinuate, you scoundrel
? ' demanded Harland, beginning to
feel alarmed.

« Softly — softly,' said Will Farrell,
4 don't raise your voice. Some one might
overhear you. I never insinuate, as I
think I informed you at our last meeting ;
I always speak my mind, and if you
wish me to do so now, I will. I will go
further, and take our fellow-passengers
into my confidence, if you desire to become
notorious amongst them.'

What would you tell them ? ' demanded
Harland, livid with passion.

1 That you have a wife already, and
cannot marry Miss Vansittart.'

1 It is a lie ! I was never married to
her.'

Farrell was staggered for a moment by

this bold assertion. What if it were true.
The man before him was villain enough
for anything, and the first thing a woman
tries to hide is her own shame. Yet
Maggie had said that Iris was his wife,
and he did not believe that Maggie would
tell an untruth.

That is easily settled,' he answered
quickly ; ' we can appeal to Mrs Har-land.'


You cannot. She is dead.'

1 That is a lie ! ' cried Farrell fiercely,
as great a lie as the other. I know
your wife to be alive.'

Where have you seen her ? '

I shall not tell you.'

1 I will make you ! ' exclaimed Harland,
advancing upon him.

But Farrell was prepared for the attack.

1 Dare to lay a finger on me,' he said,
'and the whole ship shall hear your
story.'

What story have you to tell them ? *
repeated his adversary.

1 One that would make two or three
columns of the most interesting reading
in the daily papers, Mr Horace Cain.
Only a little incident that occurred a few
years since (how many was it — ten ?) at
Starling's Bank. A forged cheque — the
warrant for an arrest — a fruitless search
an escape to America — and what /
should call a most imprudent return. I
should point out the hero of the piece
to them — it would be quite a melodrama.
Virtue triumphant, vice in the background,
and the blue fire of their indignation overall.'


And who would believe your story ? '
sneered Harland.

I would make them believe it,' resumed
Farrell, in a sadder and more
earnest voice. ' I would point to myself
as its best proof, — to me whom your bad
example ruined — whom your cowardice
left in the lurch — on whom the stigma of
your villainy fell like a curse, rising up
like the deadly nightshade to poison every

home I tried to make for myself. Godfrey
Harland (as you choose to call yourself),
you have been my bad genius from
the day we met. You tempted me to evil,
and left me to bear the brunt of your
own misdemeanour. You have ruined
others beside myself — (I know more of
your doings than you think of). But
your day is ended. Before you blight
another life, as you have done mine, I
will blazon the miserable truth to the
world.'

Where would your proofs be ? ' cried
Harland ; ' and who would credit your
simple word. I'd soon hash your goose
for you, my fine fellow. A low second-class
passenger attempting to blackguard
a gentleman ! I'd tell them you had tried
to extort money from me, and failed, and
they would accept my statement much
sooner than yours ; and in all probability
you would receive an injunction from the
captain to keep the peace, or be put
under arrest. Why, you're not sober

now, you useless, drunken " ne'er-do-weel."
Don't you presume on your former
knowledge to speak to me again. I
have done with you from this moment.'

And Harland rose to leave the spot.

And don't you dare to venture down
here again,' replied Farrell, trembling with
excitement, ' or I will carry out my threat,
and expose you before the whole ship's
company, as Mr Horace Cain, the for — '

1 Take care what you say,' interrupted
Harland, in a hoarse voice, ' or I shall
not be able to control my temper. I have
stood your insults long enough.'

Not longer than I have submitted to
yours. And I have a double debt to
discharge to you now, Mr Harland.
You think that I know nothing, — that I
am powerless to damage your character.
What about Maggie Greet, who served
your deserted wife in England ?'

At that name, Godfrey Harland felt his
limbs tremble. The thought of Maggie
Greet had always had more power to sting

his hardened conscience than that of his
wife. He was more afraid of her than
of Iris, and less certain of her keeping his
secrets.

1 1 don't know to whom you allude,' he
replied, attempting to brave it out. ' Was
she the " slavey ? " You really cannot
expect me to remember the names of those
sort of people.'

And yet she remembers you,' said
Farrell sarcastically. ' How strange.
And she remembers the wrong you did
her into the bargain. Stranger still, isn't
it?'

Oh, enough of this cursed twaddle ! '
cried Harland, who was most anxious to
get away. ' You are talking of a lot of
things of which you know nothing. I
am off to bed now. Let us thoroughly
understand each other. If you presume
to speak to me again, I shall cut you
dead.'

1 And if you come down to the second
cabin again, I'll break every bone in your

body,' retorted Farrell. ' And when I get
you on shore, my boy, we'll have it out,
whoever is by to see, and let the best
man win.'

Harland was on the top rung of the
ladder, and as he heard Will Farrell's
parting threat he turned pale with fear,
and the beads of perspiration stood on
his forehead like dew.

What if any one should have overheard
his words. He pushed up the hatch, and
alighting on the deck, staggered to his
cabin, and threw himself upon the berth ina
state bordering on despair.

m

IN THE SMOKE-ROOM.

H E accident that occurred to little
Winifred Leyton, and the rough
weather that succeeded it, had
pretty well driven the idea of the proposed
theatricals out of the ladies' heads.
In the first place, an unaccountable gloom
seemed to have fallen upon the amateur
company, and they became so indifferent
about the whole affair, that Miss Vere left
them to themselves, and sought refuge in
her own studies.

Alice Leyton and Captain Lovell looked
as if the world were over for both of them.

He had been afraid, since his interview
with Mrs Leyton, to speak more openly
to her daughter than he had done, and the
girl imagined, in consequence, that he had
been trifling with her. She spent her time r
therefore, in gazing in a melancholy fashion
over the sea, whilst he sat at the opposite
side of the deck and gazed at her ; and
Miss Vere said she was quite sick of them
both.

Jack Blythe, too, was not in his usual
spirits. The fair manageress had fully
intended to enlist the handsome young
officer amongst her volunteers, but he had
decidedly refused to take any part in the
amusement, and she laid it all down to the
charge of Alice Leyton, and grew still
more angry with her in consequence. But
when the cold weather continued to debar
the ladies from sitting on deck, and the
evenings became long and tedious, the
idea of the theatricals was once more
revived, and hailed as a distraction. Since
the smoke-room had been deserted by the

VOL. II. N

card-players, the younger couples had crept
in and taken possession of it, and on the
morning after the swamping of the after
cabin, several of them assembled therewith
their books and work and writing,
Captain Lovell, as usual, looking unutterable
things at the love-stricken Alice, and
Mr Fowler, who had never disclosed the
secrets of his past, his present, nor his
future, to his fellow-passengers, basking
in the smiles of Miss Vere, with whom
he was a great favourite. Poor Harold
Greenwood, who had fallen into terrible
disgrace with most of the ship's company
since his little escapade with the lighted
lucifer, and who had tried to indemnify
himself for cold looks and flagging conversation,
by falling hopelessly in love
with the actress, was worshipping her at
a respectful distance, and Pemberton was
doing the agreeable to Mrs Vansittart,
whose daughter, despite all her maternal
warnings, persisted in walking the poop
deck on the arm of Godfrey Harland.

Mr Vansittart was also present, although
he could not be numbered amongst the
young people, but his genial nature made
him welcome everywhere. The old gentleman
was not so easy in his mind, however,
as he professed to be. Sundry
hints and rumours concerning Harland
had greatly disturbed him lately, and he
had made up his mind to speak seriously
to Grace on the subject. She had refused
to listen to her mother's advice,
but, if necessary, he would force her to
attend to his orders. He was not satisfied
with what he had heard, nor with
himself for having admitted a stranger
so intimately to their society. However,
luckily nothing was settled as yet, and
he was determined to stop any further
philandering until he had had an opportunity
to inquire into the young man's
antecedents and connections.

1 Where is Grace ? ' were the first words
he had addressed to his wife on joining
her.

I don't know, my dear,' was the reply.
1 She left me half-an-hour ago — '

Miss Vansittart is on the poop with
Mr Harland,' interposed Alice Leyton ;
I saw them walking there just now.'

I must go and put a stop to this,'
said Mr Vansittart, commencing to button
up his greatcoat again.

His wife laid her hand on his arm.

Not just now, my dear. Wait till
after lunch. It will look so peculiar to
drag her away from him in the sight of
everybody.'

You are right, old lady,' he said, reseating
himself. ' The business will keep
till after lunch.'

'What part of the country are you
going to, Alice?' demanded Miss Vere,
w r with a view to turning the conversation.

We go straight home to Paradise
Farm in the Hurunni, which is about
sixty miles from Christchurch. Father
will meet us on arrival, and take us upcountry.
Isn't it strange ? He has

never seen Winnie yet, and I do not
suppose he will recognise me. I was
only fourteen when I left New Zealand.
How glad I shall be to see it again.'

You love a country life, Miss Leyton ? '
said Lovell.

Oh, dearly ! My father has a large
sheep-run close to the Weka Pass, and
we live right up in the bush, with not
another house within ten miles of us. I
shall milk the cows, and look after the
garden and the poultry, and teach baby
as much as I know myself. It is just
the sort of life I love. I hate streets
and towns, and a lot of houses all staring
at one another.'

And a lot of officers staring at you,'
said Jack Blythe, looking in at the open
door. ' Come, Alice ; be honest ! You
know you liked the officers at Southsea.'

Ah ! I was young then, and knew
no better,' replied Alice, blushing; 'but
now I am wiser.'

What a wonderful effect the sea air

has had upon you,' remarked Jack, laughing.
' I have heard it is considered
a cure for love, but never before for
vanity.'

'Oh, now, Jack, do go away!' exclaimed
Alice ; ' you are interrupting all our conversation.'


Yes; and coming in just at the wrong
time, and spoiling the effect of your pretty
speeches. It was awfully inconsiderate
of me. I will atone for it now. I
will go.'

And he disappeared.

1 What a bright, handsome face Mr
Blythe has. I think he is one of the
finest young fellows I ever saw. I wish
he was in my company.' remarked Miss
Vere.

4 Oh, Miss Vere! I wish you would
take me into your company, don't you
know ? ' sighed Mr Greenwood. ' I would
do anything for you, 'pon my word I
would, — play parts, or take the tickets,
or sweep out the theatre, — anything, only

to be near you — to see you — and feel
I was of some use, don't you know ?
Couldn't you manage it, eh ? '

'Why, Mr Greenwood, what do you
mean by talking of prostituting your
talents by sweeping a floor ? ' cried the
actress, heartily amused. ' What would
your family say to such a degradation ?
No, no! What you have to do now is
to learn your part for our theatricals,
and when they are over, we'll talk about
the other thing. But we have interrupted
Alice in her description of her New Zealand
home.'

There is not much more to tell,' said

Alice. ' It is lovely, as I remember it,

and I hope I shall think it lovely still.

But — ' with a long-drawn sigh — ' it is the

people, and not the place, that make a home. 5

1 Just my sentiments,' replied Captain
Lovell. ' I am going to Geraldine, but
I have no friends there.'

You will be a long way from us,' said
Alice timidly.

Yes. But I suppose there is some
sort of conveyance between the places

Of course there is ! You mustn't
think that New Zealand is a perfectly
uncivilised country. There are trains
running all through it.'

'Are you going to farm, Captain Lovell ?'
asked Fowler.

That is my intention. A friend of
mine has bought a place out there, and
I am about to join him. I know but
little about ploughshares and wurzels,
but my friend Cathcart is a crack hand
at it all ; and I am sure I shall prefer
a free life to the slavery of the army.
That is to say, if — if — '

If what ? ' demanded Fowler.

If I can settle down there, — make a
home for myself, in fact,' said the captain,
with a shy look at his inamorata.

Persuade some one to settle down with
you, you mean ? ' laughed his companion.

1 Yes ! that is what I mean,' acquiesced
Lovell, apparently relieved to have the

matter settled for him. ' What are your
own plans ? '

4 Oh ! mine are very uncertain. I may
remain three months, or six, but I hope
to return home via the Canal before a
year is over my head.'

Private business, I presume ? '

1 Strictly private

Oh, Mr Fowler ! you are so close ;
I am sure there is a lady in the case,'
laughed Miss Vere.

If she were anything like you, Miss
Vere, I should pray there might be.
But I have no such luck.'

4 Do you know the country at all ? '
asked Lovell.

1 I am sorry to say no ; but I have
friends out there who will soon set me
all right.'

4 I wonder what the shooting is like
said the captain thoughtfully.

4 Why, / can tell you that ! ' exclaimed
Alice. ' The Middle Island abounds with
game — Paradise ducks, grey ducks, swans,

and pheasants ; and if you want bigger
sport, there are wild cattle and boars.'

Is there good hunting there also ? '

Very little. We have no foxes or
hares. I have seen the harriers out,
but I have never known them to
find.'

1 That is very disappointing,' replied
Lovell. ' I should have thought, since
the country contains boars, there would
be plenty of pig-sticking.'

But you won't have any time for
hunting. The farm will take up all
your attention. You will have to plough,
and reap, and harrow, and drive the
cattle home. Everybody works in the
bush, even the women ; in fact, I think
the women work almost harder than the
men.'

And why shouldn't they ? ' said Miss
Vere. ' When women do more work in
England, they will have a better claim
to be acknowledged on an equality with
man.'

Do you not admit, then, that man
is the superior animal, Miss Vere ? '
asked Mr Fowler, with a view to draw
the actress out.

In weight, strength, and stature, Mr
Fowler — yes. But intellectually, I think
his superiority is at least open to
question.'

So do I, Miss Vere,' said Dr Lennard,
who had joined the party. ' I
believe that the female brain only needs
development, and that as civilisation
advances, and Woman boldly asserts her
rights, she will find herself absolutely
equal with Man in all things.'

But is a woman's brain as large asa
man's ? ' demanded Captain Lovell,
who had a head like a bullet.

In proportion to her size there is
very little difference — about one-fiftieth
which, as brain power, can easily be
made up by its finer texture,' replied
the doctor. ' My belief is, that the
wretched education women have hitherto

received has been the sole cause of their
keeping in the background, and that
when they obtain a fair field they will
come to the front. Don't you agree
with me. Miss Vere?'

Certainly I do. See how they have
come to the front in almost every profession
they have been allowed to enter,
and in so short a time too. It will not
be long now before women will support
themselves entirely by their own labour,
and be independent of marriage and
men.'

1 That will be a sad day for us,'
laughed Mr Fowler.

Do you think so ? I don't ! I think
we have sold ourselves for board and
lodging long enough, and shall choose
better when we are free to choose.'

1 We have much to thank women for
even now,' said Dr Lennard. ' The
greatest geniuses the world has ever
seen have repeatedly acknowledged that
they owed all their moral and intellectual

positions to their mothers. And
it is a well-known fact, that there has
never been an extraordinarily clever man
born of a stupid mother, nor a giant of
a little woman. And yet, in either case,
the father may have been a fool or a
dwarf.'

1 How do you account, then, for woman's
inferior position ? ' said Lovell.

1 Because she has been kept down ! '
cried Miss Vere. ' She has never been
allowed to enjoy the sports, or follow
the vocations, to which she has an equal
right with man. She has been debarred
from proper exercise by a set of prudes,
who consider all out-door amusements
unfitted for modest and womanly women,
but which are in reality the very means
most necessary to develop a woman's
brain, as well as her body. How then
can men wonder if — if — '

Let me assist you, Miss Vere,' interrupted
the doctor. ' I think you were
going to say that the corpuscles of your

sex are devoid of the brain nourishing:
oxygen, and, if so, I quite agree with you.'

Yes ; that is what I meant, doctor ;
but I was too ignorant — fault of my
feminine education again, you see — to
find words in which to express myself.'

1 Everything depends on the rearing of
girls,' remarked Dr Lennard. ' Parents
are careful to bring up their sons to
healthful occupations and exercises, but
their daughters are but too often doomed,
by the injustice and short-sighted folly of
the world, to a life of insertion.'

Hardly injustice, doctor,' said Mrs
Vansittart ; 'it is their own choice. I
am sure women have every liberty nowadays.'


Yes, injustice. The doctor is perfectly
right. There is no other word for it,'
exclaimed Alice, suddenly bursting into
eloquence.

So you are going to take up the
gauntlet for your sex ? ' laughed the doctor.
1 You do not look a very ill-used person,

though, Miss Alice, with that rose-leaf
complexion and peachy cheek.'

Doctor, it is very rude to be so personal.
You quite confuse me. What
was I talking about ? ' said the girl.

Injustice to your lovely sex,' replied
Mr Fowler.

Oh, yes. Why have many of our
cleverest women written under an assumed
name, and signed their works by a masculine
one, except that they knew how
difficult it is to convince the world that
anything really good can be produced by
a woman. And then you deny that men
are unjust to us.'

Why, Alice, you astonish me. I had
no idea that you could talk so well said
Captain Lovell, as she finished her peroration.


But if her eloquence had astonished
the young officer, his familiarity with her
surprised his hearers still more. It was
the first time he had called her by her
Christian name in public, and Alice coloured

scarlet as she heard it. A painful pause
ensued, in which Miss Vere came to the
rescue.

Well, it seems to me,' she said, ' that
in discussing women's brains, we have
quite forgotten that we met to discuss
the private theatricals. Miss Ley ton,
have you quite decided to play "Julia"
to Captain Lovell's " Faulkner " ? '

Yes, quite, I think,' replied Alice,
who was still as red as a peony.

1 Then we must fix on the dresses. I
think you told me you had a white dress
that— '

1 There is such a splendid ship in sight,
do you know ? ' exclaimed Harold Greenwood,
suddenly bursting in upon them.
She has four masts, and is going to
Calcutta. Won't you come on deck and
see her, eh ? '

4 Oh, we must run up and see the
ship,' cried everybody, as they deserted
the smoke-room.

SETTLED.

HE large vessel, which turned
out to be the Carrie fergus, of
Glasgow, bound for Calcutta,
did not appear to interest Alice Leyton
and Captain Lovell. They gazed at her
for a few moments in silence, and then
turned away, as if by mutual consent,
and walked to the other side of the deck
together.

Why don't you stay and watch them
pulling up the flags ? ' said Alice, as she
perceived that the captain had followed
her.

VOL. II. O

Because I would far rather be with
you. Alice, what is the matter ? What
have I done to offend you ? '

< Do I look offended ? '

You do not smile as sweetly as usual,
and I am miserable. Is it possible you
are angry with me ? '

1 Yes, I am — a little. Why did you
call me " Alice" before all those people ?
You know you have no right to do so,
and the next thing we shall hear, is that
it is reported all over the ship we are
engaged.'

Then let us forestall their gossip, and
make the report true. Let us be engaged,
Alice.'

How can we, when mother won't hear
of it ? She says everything must remain
in statu quo until she sees my father. I
believe she is half sorry I have broken
with Jack Blythe. She is always extolling
his bravery and courage to the skies,
because he jumped in the sea after baby.
I wish,' continued Alice, with a suspicious

moisture in her blue eyes, 4 I do wish,
Robert, that you had been the one to
save her. Then mother would have
thought nothing too good for you'

1 Oh, my darling ! don't you believe
I would have done so if Blythe had not
forestalled me ? I was looking after
you, you know ; and it would have been
of no use two of us jumping into the
water at the same time — would it, now ? '

1 No, I suppose not,' replied Alice, with
a sigh ; * but baby is all the world to
mother.'

Then she will have the less trouble
in making up her mind to part with you,
Alice ! I have been half afraid to speak
openly to you since that interview with
Mrs Leyton. She seemed so dead set
against my suit. But I think we ought
to understand each other. The matter
really concerns only you and me, and I
want to have something definite to say
to your father when I meet him. Tell
me the truth, then. Do you love me ? '

1 Oh, Robert! I think you know I do
whispered Alice.

Better than you loved Mr Blythe ? '

I don't think now that I ever really
loved him. I liked him very much. He
is a dear, good fellow. I like him still,
but I feel I could never marry him.'

And could you marry me, darling ? '

Alice's blushes spoke for her. She was
not much more than a child in years, but
her womanhood was born at that moment,
and she felt her heart leaping in mighty
throbs to welcome it. But her tongue
refused to utter the thoughts that were
surging in her brain.

1 Can't you speak to me ? ' pleaded
Captain Lovell presently. ' Just say,
Robert, I love you, and I will be your
wife," and my heart will be at rest forever
more.'

Alice turned her big blue eyes suddenly
upon him.

I love you,' she said rapidly, ' and I
will be your wife.'

And then, as if frightened at the sound
of her own boldness, she flushed scarlet
from brow to bosom, and the tears rushed
to her eyes. Lovell thought he had
never seen her look so pretty as when
she stood thus, burning with love and
shame, before him.

1 My darling ! ' he exclaimed, ' how I
wish that I could kiss you ! But a hundred
eyes are on us, and I can only
thank you for your consent by word of
mouth. Thank you a thousand times,
my wife that is to be ! I shall be as
brave as a lion, Alice, with your sweet
promise to urge me on. And now, let
the people say what they choose. Weare
engaged to one another, and no one
can part us, unless your father does. So
let us be as happy as we can till we
reach New Zealand, and not anticipate
an evil that may never come.'

Here are Miss Vere and Mr Fowler.
Talk of something else,' said Alice, in a
fearful whisper.

Tell me how you employ yourself all
day long at Paradise Farm, Miss Ley-ton,'
replied Lovell, taking the cue.

4 Oh, there are no end of things to be
done ! The day is not half long enough
I help mother in the house during the
mornings, and in the afternoons I ride
or drive or garden, according to the
weather.'

Or pay horrid social calls,' suggested
the captain.

1 Not often — that is, in up - country
stations. The distances are too great.
The nearest dwelling-house to ours is
ten miles off. But we drive to the town
sometimes, and to afternoon dances and
teas.'

And in the evenings ? '

1 We read books or do crewel work,
and go to bed at ten.'

Whew ! ' said Lovell, giving a long,
low whistle ; ' what an awful existence ! '

1 Don't try it, then,' returned Alice
archly ; ' for everybody does the same.

We rise at four or five, have dinner atone
(and it usually consists of mutton in
every shape and form), tea at six, and
all lights out at ten. You will soon fall
into the custom, and begin yawning at
nine o'clock.'

1 But what work can such little hands
as yours do ? '

Everything ! There are very few
servants in New Zealand, and the
squatters' wives and daughters do all
the cooking, washing, and cleaning
themselves. Sometimes I saddle father's
horse or my own, and if he is busy, I
chop up wood for the fire, and draw the
water for the use of the house.'

1 I cannot believe it. You are joking
with me ! Such work is not fit for such
a delicate creature as you are,' said
Lovell, looking genuinely distressed.

Indeed, I am not delicate ; and if I
were, I would help my parents all in
my power. I shall always work for
them whilst I am at home.'

8 I hope you will not be at home long,
my darling,' whispered her lover.

If not, I shall work in the house I
go to,' whispered Alice, in return.

Not while I have a hand to do it
for you,' said Lovell. * Alice ! if you
will consent to come and brighten my
poor home with the sunshine of your
presence, you must promise to leave
the hard work to some one else.'

1 I will promise to do exactly as you
tell me, Robert,' she answered ; ' but
I'm afraid we are attracting attention,
and it must be nearly time for luncheon.
Here comes Mr and Miss Vansittart.
Let me go back to mother ! I feel as
if everybody must guess what we have
been talking of, from my face.'

Little goose — ' said Lovell fondly, ashe
handed her down the companion.

Mr Vansittart was talking so seriously
to his daughter, that they had not even
noticed the presence of the lovers.

Gracie, my dear,' he had commenced

by saying, ' I wants to have a little
chat with you about Mr Harland. You
two seem to be taking up with one another,
to my mind, and so I think it
right to warn you before it goes too
far.'

1 To warn me, papa ? ' said Grace,
with open eyes. ' Of what ? '

Why, that before any gentleman proposes
to be your husband, he must be
prepared to satisfy me concerning his
family, and his character, and his means
of making a living. And I am afraid
Mr Harland is not prepared to do so.'

4 Why should you say that, papa ? I
think it is bitterly unfair.'

4 No, my dear! there ain't no fairness
nor unfairness about it. It's just a
matter of business. I'm sorry to see
as Mr Harland is not a favourite aboard
ship, and there's one or two nasty tales
floating about concerning his card-playing
that have quite choked me off him.
And so I consider it's time I looked a

bit after the way he's going on with
you. You see, my dear, I don't know
anything about the young man's antecedents.'


Then I wonder at your bringing him
out to Tabbakooloo with us, papa.'

Well, that was my mistake, Grace.
But then I brought him out as a land-agent,
remember, and not as a son-in-law
! I can dismiss the one, but there's
no dismissing of the other. And so it
behoves us to be careful. Now tell me
candidly how far you've got with him.'

I don't understand you, papa,' said
Miss Grace, who, when offended, often
professed not to be able to comprehend
her parents' meaning.

1 D — n it all, then, I'll put it plainer,'
said Mr Vansittart, getting angry. * How
much sweethearts's gone on between you ?
Has he spoken to you of marriage ? '

1 Sometimes ; naturally ! '

1 Has he asked you downright to marry
him ?'

1 He has intimated that he wished it,'

1 And what did you say ? '

1 Nothing, papa — '

You're not engaged to him, nor any
rubbish of that sort, then ? '

1 Oh, no ! How could I be, without
asking your consent, and mamma's ?
But Godfrey — I mean Mr Harland — has
told me several times that he only waits
till we arrive at Tabbakooloo to make
formal proposals for my hand.'

Formal fiddlestick ! If he was half
a man, he'd have spoken up at once.
I'm very much afraid it ain't all right.
And so, look here, my girl, whatever
Harland may do when he gets ashore,
remember it's my orders as nothing more
goes on between you now. When he
speaks to me, he'll get my answer ; but I
won't have any more sweethearts aboard
this ship ; and if you disobey me, I shall
take means to keep you apart.'

1 But, papa, I can't be cool to Mr Har-land.
Every one knows he is your agent.'

1 I don't want you to be cool to him,
but I won't have any love-making. Your
mother saw him kiss you last night in
the cabin passage. You must put a stop
to that sort of thing at once. Do you
fully understand me ? '

Fully,' replied Miss Vansittart, who
fully understood her own intentions also.

1 I don't believe the fellow's got a sixpence
to jingle on a tombstone,' continued
Mr Vansittart, waxing warmer at his
daughter's reticence ; ' and a pauper don't
marry my only child. It's like his impudence
to dream of it. Not that I
would have made his poverty an objection
(having so much myself), if it hadn't
been for those other things. But a man
as cheats at play, must be bad all round.'

Who dares to say that he cheats at
play?' exclaimed Grace Vansittart, firing
up in defence of her absent lover. ' Ita
lie, father. I am sure of it. Mr Har-land
would be incapable of such a meanness.'




Well, I hope so, my dear, but I must
know a little more about it before I
decide. Besides, that's not all. He had
a violent quarrel with some low fellow in
the second cabin the other night, and
part of their conversation was overheard,
and has got about the ship, and it isn't
nice — not nice at all. So, you see, until
I can be satisfied of the falseness of such
rumours, I can't do less than warn you,
my dear, not to show anything more
than civility to Mr Harland. If I find
on further inquiry that they are true, I
shall give him his return passage-money,
and his dismissal, as soon as ever we
touch land, for I won't have such a man
at Tabbakooloo.'

Grace was weeping silently by this
time beneath her veil. She was a proud,
self-willed girl, and she would let her
father see neither her tears nor her determination
to have her own way. But she foresaw
the trouble and opposition that would
ensue, and felt much injured in consequence.

'You don't answer me continued Mr
Vansittart, perceiving she was sulky, ' and
I daresay you feel a bit disappointed ;
but I mean what I say, and I intend
you shall obey me. And don't forget
I shall be keeping a sharp eye on you,
my girl, so it's no use trying to deceive
me. And now go down to your lunch,
and don't let's hear any more of the
subject.'

Grace dried her tears, and obeyed her
father's behest, but she felt obstinately
rebellious the while. Matters had gone
much further between her and Godfrey
Harland than her parents had any idea
of, but they would never learn the truth
now from her. She was one of those
women — very few and far between — who
have the power to keep their own secrets.
The day came, and not so long after,
when Grace Vansittart was forced to
acknowledge the justice of her father's
commands, but she never gave him the
satisfaction of hearing so. The day

dawned also when the weeks she spent
on board the Pandora were things of the
past, and a new life had opened before
her — a life in which * Charlie Monro'
took a part, and Mrs Vansittart's prayers
for her daughter's future were fulfilled.

But had Charlie been fully acquainted
with all that had transpired during the
voyage to New Zealand, would Grace
Vansittart ever have been transformed
into Mrs Monro ? Who can tell ? If
all our inmost secrets were laid bare,
would any one of us, male or female,
occupy the positions which we hold in
the estimation of the world ?

The most exciting part of transmigration
to another sphere, must surely bethe
fact that in that atrial ' Palace of
Truth ' we are promised the secrets of
all hearts shall be revealed.

THE LETTER.

T may be remembered that a
certain letter written by Mr
Vansittart to Godfrey Harland,
and left by that gentleman in his coat
pocket, was the means by which Iris
discovered his intention to desert her.
Strange to say, Harland had never missed
the letter. He only visited his home on
one occasion after that evening, and then
the excitement of his new prospects, and
the necessity of keeping up appearances
to deceive his wife, had prevented his
discovering his loss. Iris had preserved

the paper carefully, and brought it with
her on board the Pandora. She intended
to produce it in proof of her right to have
followed her husband to New Zealand ;
and, in case of his attempting to excuse
himself, to confront him with the witness
to his treachery. When Maggie told her
that Godfrey was paying open court to
Grace Vansittart, Iris took out her box
of letters, and turned them over, and
read that one amongst others, to see if
she could discover that he had had any
positive intention of committing bigamy
before he started on the voyage,— whether,
in fact, his wooing of Miss Vansittart was
the result of an unfortunate passion, or of
a premeditated crime. And, in putting back
her papers, she dropped Mr Vansittart's
note upon the cabin floor. It was picked
up and read by Will Farrell. As he was
debating what to do with it — having promised
Maggie Greet that he would never
divulge to Iris that he knew her to be
Godfrey Harland's wife — Iris herself came
vol. 11. p

into the cabin, and walked its length with
her eyes upon the floor, as though searching
for something.

1 Have you lost anything, Miss
Douglas ? ' asked Farrell, as he watched
her.

Yes, I have dropped a letter — a very
important letter. Have you seen it,
steward ? ' she said, in her sweet, low
voice.

No, miss, I ain't,' replied the steward.
When did you have it last ? '

Only this morning. I was reading
over some old letters, and this one
amongst them. It is written on thick,
glazed paper, and has a large monogram
in red and gold at the top. I shall be
very vexed if I lose it.'

Well, I'll find it for you if it's aboard,
miss. But perhaps it's blowed over. The
wind has been very fresh through the
cabin, to-day,' replied the steward, jingling
his glasses.

Oh ! I hope not ! ' exclaimed Iris, clasping

her. hands in genuine distress. * It
is of the utmost consequence to me. Pray
look for it at once, steward ; it may have
got into your pantry, amongst the breakfast
things.'

The steward bundled off into his sanctum,
and Will Farrell approached her
with the letter in his hand.

1 Is this what you are looking for, Miss
Douglas ? '

Iris flushed scarlet.

1 Oh, yes, it is indeed ! I am so much
obliged to you ! Where did you find it ? '
Under the table. I picked it up about
an hour ago.'

Iris took the letter, and twisted it about
nervously in her fingers.

Mr Farrell, have you read it ? ' she said
at last timidly.

'Yes, Miss Douglas, I have, and, begging
your pardon, I should like to know
how it came into your possession.'

He knew well enough, but he said it
to force her to a confession of the truth.

I — I don't quite understand you,' she
stammered.

1 mean how is it that you hold a letter
addressed to Godfrey Harland ? '

4 Do you know him ? ' she asked quickly.

1 Know hin ! I should rather think I
did. I know him for the greatest scoundrel
unhung-hush

! — hush ! ' cried Iris fearfully.

I'm not afraid of who may hear me,
Miss Douglas. The whole ship might
listen, for ought I should care about it.
But I am sorry to think so true a lady
as yourself should have any connection
(however distant) with such a blackguard
as Godfrey Harland.'

1 Ah ! you don't know — ' she commenced,
with a look of the keenest pain.

Won't you tell me ? ' he said coaxingly.
' I'm a rough fellow, Miss
Douglas, and not a fit friend, perhaps,
for the like of you. But I can see
you're in trouble, and if your trouble is
connected with that man, you'll want a

friend to help you through with it. He's
a rascal — I can't help saying it, whatever
you may think of him, and if he can cheat
you, he will, as he has done others, over
and over again.'

Oh ! I think I could trust you ! ' exclaimed
Iris involuntarily ; ' for you look
honest and true, Mr Farrell, and you love
Maggie, and Maggie loves me. Yes, I
feel sure you will be the friend of her friend.
But how astonished you will be when I tell
you the truth ! Stoop your head lower,
that no one may hear us. My name is
not Miss Douglas at all. It is Iris Har-land.
I am Godfrey Harland's wife.'

God help you, poor thing ! ' exclaimed
Farrell fervently.

Ah ! what do you know against him
to say that ? ' she replied, shrinking from
him. ' Did you ever hear of him before
you met on board ship ? '

1 I have known him, to my misfortune,
for years, Miss Douglas. He has been
the ruin of my life.'

1 God forgive him ! How ? '

We were clerks in the same office,
though he was in a higher position than
myself, and his real name (as I suppose
you know) is Horace Cain.'

1 Horace Cain ! ' repeated Iris, with
knitted brows. ' I never heard of it. Mr
Farrell, are you sure you are not making
a mistake ? He married me as Godfrey
Harland.'

Then he married you under a false
name. But he had good reason for changing
it, as I will prove to you. How well
I remember the day his father, old Mr
Cain, brought him to Starling's office, and
what a swell we all thought him ! He
had only left college a few weeks then,
owing to their loss of fortune, and he gave
himself all the airs of a millionaire. We
were very much prejudiced against him at
first, because old Starling (who was a friend
of his father's) placed him over all our
heads, although he did not know anything
of the business. However, it was his policy

to make himself agreeable', and learn all he
could. And nice work he made of the
knowledge he gained. He hadn't been
six months in the office, before a forgery-was
committed on old Starling's bank for
eight hundred pounds.

Mr Farrell cried Iris, turning very
white, as she clutched his arm, ' it was
not Godfrey who did it ? '

1 It certainly was, Miss Douglas.'

'Oh, no, no! He is very bad. He is
cruel and false and ungenerous, I know,
but surely he never committed such an
awful crime

Miss Douglas, Harland was the forger
of that cheque, as sure as we sit here. He
has never denied it to me. He cannot.
There were but two of us who could have
done it — he and myself — and / know that
it was not I.

1 But how could he escape ? '

1 He bolted to America, leaving a very
cleverly-concocted letter behind him to
say that he knew that the suspicion would

falsely fall upon himself, and that he was
unable either to bear such a calumny, or
turn Queen's evidence against one whom
he had treated as a friend. And by the
time the letter was received, he was clear
off under an assumed name, having left
part of the receipts for the forged cheque
(which he sent me to cash) in my desk,
where, to my utter amazement, they were
found, rolled up in some old bills. Suspicion,
of course, fell upon me, but Cain's
conduct in running away was so mysterious,
that we were considered to be
partners in crime, and as Mr Starling,
for his old friend's sake, would institute
no proceedings against Horace, he refused
also to prosecute me. But he turned me
out of his office without a character, and
a stain upon my name, and the curse has
followed me ever since. I have tried
again and again, Miss Douglas, to procure
permanent employment. I have even
stooped to menial service, with the same
result. I get on well ; I grow in favour

with ray employers ; I work hard — and
then, just as I am rising to something better,
the curse comes down upon me, the old
lie crops up. I am dubbed as a suspected
forger, and dismissed without ceremony.
It is this that sickened me of trying to
live in England, and determined me to
try my fortune in another land. In New
Zealand the old story may be forgotten,
and, if not, I shall find others as bad as
myself. And now you know, Miss
Douglas, why I hate Godfrey Harland. I
met him before we started, and warned
him not to come near me during the
voyage. He has chosen to disregard
that warning, and we have had a quarrel
over it. If he does it a second time, I
have threatened to expose him to the
whole ship's company, and I will keep
my word. I will yet pay Horace Cain
out for the cruel turn he did me years
ago.'

Oh, Mr Farrell, don't say that ! ' exclaimed
Iris, who had grown as white asa

sheet as she listened to the disgraceful
story. ' Hard as it is for me to say it,
remember he is my husband, and I am
bound to live with him. For God's sake
don't make my position worse than it need
be. I can't tell you how I dread the prospect
now. But as the wife of a forger /
Oh, heavens ! it is too much, even forme
to bear ! '

And she drooped her head upon the
table and buried her face in her hands.

1 Too much' repeated Farrell. ' I should
think it was too much. It is sacrilege to
think of such a thing. Miss Douglas, you
must not go back to him. He is not
worthy of a second thought from you. By
your own confession, he has made you
miserable — else why are you following him
under an assumed name, instead of openly
proclaiming yourself his wife ?'

I was afraid,' faltered Iris. ' He deserted
me, — left me to starve and — '

1 And took to courting Miss Vansittart
instead. Cannot you see the little game

he is playing now, Miss Douglas. He
wants to add bigamy to his other misdemeanours.
He has an idea of marrying
his employer's daughter, and getting a
handsome dowry with her, I suppose. I
know he has given himself out as an unmarried
man, and all the ship imagines
they are an engaged couple.'

1 Maggie has told me the same,' cried
Iris excitedly, ' but I cannot believe it.
How could he be so foolish, when he knows
that I live, and any mail might take out a
letter to reveal the truth. Besides, notwithstanding
all his unkindness to me, I
did think sometimes that he loved me a
little.

1 There speaks your woman's vanity,
Miss Douglas, and not your commonsense.
How can any man love the
woman whom he makes miserable. But
if you doubt his motives respecting Miss
Vansittart, watch them, and judge for
yourself.'

How can I watch them from this

cabin. I only see them sometimes in
the evenings walking together on the
poop.'

4 They have theatricals to-night, you
know, in the little theatre that the sailors
rigged up in the after-part of the vessel.
Go and see them, and you will probably
have a domestic drama enacted for your
private benefit. Both Mr Harland and
Miss Vansittart have refused to act.
They prefer sitting together in the semi-darkness
in front. Take my advice, and
when you come back to this cabin, you
will tell me your mind is made up.'

But if I should be seen ? I have been
so very careful since coming on board, to
keep out of his way.'

But why ? What is your object in
concealing yourself, now that we are out
at sea ? '

I don't quite know,' faltered Iris ; ' but
I am so afraid of him. He is so violent,
you know, when he is disturbed.'

And will he be less so on land ? Ordo

you think you will have more protection
from him there than here ? Miss
Douglas, excuse me for saying I think
you are quite wrong. As you have followed
him (which seems to have been a
great mistake to me), the sooner you discover
yourself the better. Every day
you keep the truth from him you increase
the chance of Miss Vansittart being made
as unhappy as yourself. I don't know
what sort of a girl she is, but since you
could be deceived by his false tongue
into believing him to be good and true,
I suppose she may be the same.'

1 Oh, how I wish I had never followed
him ! ' exclaimed Iris ; ' but what was I todo
? He left us (Maggie and me) without
money or credit or anything, just to
steal or starve as we thought fit. And
I was indignant with him, and I knew it
was his duty to support me, and so I decided
to come too. And now I feel as if
I would rather drown than go through
what lies before me.'

Don't think of yourself. Think of
Miss Vansittart,' urged Farrell. ' It is
bitterly unfair that she should be a victim
as well as you.'

1 Yes, I will think of her, poor girl,'
said Iris, ' and if I am convinced that
Godfrey means harm to her — '

Watch them when they think they are
unobserved, and you will soon be convinced
of it, Miss Douglas. The sailors
could tell you some fine stories of their
sweethearts on deck after dark. The
girl is infatuated with him. And I think
his only object is to get her so completely
in his power that she shall marry
him on landing, whether her parents consent
to it or not.'

It shall never go as far as that,' said
Iris, clenching her teeth.

Then prevent it going any further now,
for the sake of your own dignity, and
that of your sex, Miss Douglas. You
may think you know Mr Harland's
character thoroughly, but I am sure you

are not aware of half of what he is
capable. Let me take you to the performance
this evening, and I will guarantee
you shall not be discovered. You
can pretend you have the faceache, and
wrap your head up in a veil, and I will
place you in a dark corner where you
shall see without being seen.'

Yes ! I will go,' replied Iris determinedly.
' Even if the price were to
be instantaneous discovery, I would go.'

1 And if you find the case to be as I
have described it to you ? '

'If I have self-evident proofs that
my husband is deceiving this girl by
making love to her, I will go to him
at once, and tell him I have discovered
his plans, and will circumvent
them.

1 Bravo ! Miss Douglas. That is spoken
like a brave woman. I was certain you
would eventually decide that to be the
only honest course before you. But why
are you crying ? Surely you do not consider

Godfrey Harland to be worthy of
your tears ? '

1 Oh, Mr Farrell ! you do not understand,'
sobbed Iris. ' You do not know
how hard it is for a woman to come to
the conclusion that she has been wasting:
all her love on an unworthy object. I
am not weeping for the loss of him. I
am weeping for the loss of my self-respect,
— of my faith in my fellow-creatures,
— my faith in my own judgment
and discrimination. I feel so crushed
so humiliated — so ashamed, and as
if I never could put trust in anything
on earth again.'

Well ! I don't know as it's wise todo
it at any time,' replied Farrell ; * but
one swallow doesn't make a summer."
You should take pattern by Maggie.
She seems to have had a rough time
of it, poor child, but she's willing to
throw it all behind her back, and try
again

1 Has Maggie been unhappy ? ' inquired

Iris, drying her eyes. She

never told me so. And yet sometimes I
have fancied there was something which
she kept to herself, when she has been
particularly kind and loving to me. Oh !
she is a dear good girl, Mr Farrell, and I
am sure she will repay your love to her.
I cannot tell you what she has been tome
all through my wretched married life.'

1 Well, the ways of women are queer,'
said Farrell, scratching his head thoughtfully,
■ and I don't pretend to understand
them. But I'm sure of one thing, that
whatever Maggie is, or has been, she
loves you, Miss Douglas, just like her
own life. And she'd give up her life for
yours any day into the bargain. I'm assure
of it as I am that there's a heaven
above us.'

1 And so am I,' responded Iris warmly,
as she made her escape to her own cabin.

END OF VOL. II.
VOL. II. O

3 0112 049087205

By JriEyOillTHoa op

My Sister the Actress

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/driventobaynovel03lean

VOL. III.

d

A NOVEL.

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR OF
love's conflict,' * MY OWN CHILD,'

'the master passion,' 'spiders of society,'

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1887.

\ All Rights reserved.'\

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CO N T E N T S.

CHAP. PAGE

I. A Private Farce, i

II. Grace and Godfrey, 20

III. Iris and Vernon, 39

IV. The House Amidships, . . . .56
V. Face to Face, 72

VI. The Rendezvous, 88

VII. The Murder, 108

VIII. Missing, 125

IX. Mr Fowler, 142

X. Drifting Back, 157

XI. A Change. . . ' 175

XII. Exposure, 192

XIII. A Lee Shore, 209

XIV. Shipwrecked, 224

XV. Farrell's Revenge, 239

Crown Svo, clothe 3^. dd. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.
PEERESS AND PLAYER.
FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.
A BROKEN BLOSSOM.

THE HEIR-PRESUMPTIVE.
THE HEART OF JANE WARNER.
UNDER THE LILIES AND ROSES
MY OWN CHILD.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Clip).

HER SUCCESS. I Juniper.

KATE VALLIANT. | ALLERTON TOWERS.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.

MOLLIE DARLING.
SWEETHEART AND WIFE.

MATED WITH A CLOWN.
ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS Houston. Author of "Recommended to Mercy."

Barbara's warning.

By MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.

THE MATCH OF THE SEASON. I A FATAL PASSION.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.

By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.

ONLY A LOVE STORY. I NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY.

By JEAN Middlemost.
POISONEDARROWS.
By MRS H. LOVETT CAMERON.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. | A DEAD PAST.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID.
By DORA RUSSELL. I By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

OUT OF EDEN. | KEITH'S WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE HARRISON, Author of " So Runs my Dream."

FOR ONE man's PLEASURE.

By EDMUND Leather.
THE actor's wife.

By HARRIETT JAY, '

A MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, Printers, K.DINhUKGH.

CHAPTER I.

A PRIVATE FARCE.

Miss VERE was not only a
clever woman, and a woman
of the world, she was an excessively
warm-hearted and generous woman,
— one who, with a large mind, could
take pleasure in little things, and especially
if they gave pleasure to others.
All this was plainly typified by the
interest she took in the Pandora s theatricals,
and the trouble she put herself to

VOL. III. A

concerning them. She gained nothing
by the act. She had reaped her own
laurels on the public boards, and wanted
no applause from private individuals.
She was busy, moreover, with study for
the New Zealand tour, and had no more
time than was necessary for her own
work. Yet she laid it all aside to coach
her fellow-passengers in their parts ; to
design their dresses ; to suggest the
rough scenery, and even to superintend
some of the preparations. The sailors
had rigged up a temporary stage in the
steerage, where they had been giving
some uncouth performances themselves ;
and when the ladies and gentlemen proposed
to act, Captain Robarts had given
leave for it to be draped with the ship's
flags to form a proscenium, whilst some
of the men were told off to daub back
canvases to serve as scenery for the
different acts. It was difficult to place
The Rivals ' on such a stage with any
effect, but the difficulty seemed to enhance

the excitement attendant on the
amusement ; and what with the ladies'
energy and Miss Vere's suggestions, the
dresses promised to be marvellous, considering
the drawbacks placed in their
way. For a week previous to the performance,
the good-natured actress had
always one or more of the aspirants
for histrionic honours closeted with her
in her private cabin, whilst she drilled
them in tone and gesture until they were
perfect in their parts. And with no one
had she taken more trouble than with
Harold Greenwood. The poor little
man had been so palpably ' sent to Coventry
' by his fellow-passengers, since the
fright he had given them, that his forlorn
condition had excited Miss Vere's compassion,
and she had shown him all the
more kindness in consequence. But she
little knew the damage she was doing.
Ever since their first meeting, Mr Greenwood
had secretly worshipped the fascinating
actress. She was just the sort

of woman to attract a man of his calibre.
Love invariably loves a contrast. She
was big, and he was small. She was
strong and energetic, and he was weak
and incapable. She was full of mirth and
humour, and he was romantically and
sentimentally inclined. His nature unconsciously
bowed before her strength and
ability, and he mistook the feeling for
something different ; for magnetism, if it
be not love itself, is quite as powerful,
and more binding than the master
passion. Had Mr Greenwood's fancy
stopped there, it would have done no
harm to anybody ; but, unfortunately, he
mistook Miss Vere's good-natured attempts
to make him forget the cont7^e-
temps which every one else seemed
determined he should remember, for a.
direct interest in his own puny little
person, and plumed his feathers accordingly.
His conceit and self-satisfaction
became so offensively apparent, after the
actress had invited him to her cabin,.

and coached him there, in some unimportant
part for which she had cast
him, just as a salve for his wounded
vanity, that Jack Blythe, whom he chose
as a confidant, felt inclined to kick him
into the sea. The subject alone would
have been a source of irritation to Blythe,
without the mode in which Harold
Greenwood conveyed it to him. Poor
Jack was not in a humour just then
to receive love confidences from a successful
suitor. He was suffering terribly
from the disappointment he had experienced,
and it took all his time to
cast the devils of jealousy and envy
out of him, and bring his mind forcibly
to bear upon his duty. And the intense
conceit of Harold Greenwood would
have been sufficient to stir the wrath
of a man less irritably disposed than
Vernon Blythe.

Out of the way, there ! ' he called
sharply, on the morning of the theatricals,
as a coil of rope came whizzing

along the deck about the legs of Mr
Greenwood, causing the little man to
jump a couple of feet in the air, to
avoid being thrown down by it.

Dear me ! ' he ejaculated, * you might
have given me warning, Mr Blythe.
You are all so awfully sudden in your
movements on board ship, don't you
know. One never has a moment to
one's self. And it's really most imports
ant that I should not be disturbed this
morning ! I'm studying my part for
this evening, don't you know ? You
haven't forgotten the theatricals, eh ? '

We can't think of theatricals, or any
other rubbish, when there's work to be
done,' replied Jack, somewhat roughly.
If you want to study, you'd better go
below. There'll be more rope coming
along by-and-by.'

No, thank you. I'm quite what Miss
Vere calls " word perfect," don't you
know ? A grand woman. Miss Vere,
isn't she now '^, Dear creature ! what

hours of happiness we have had together
in her cabin, preparing for these theatricals.
You'd envy me, Mr Blythe,
if I told you all that has passed between
us.'

Perhaps I might. But I don't know
what right you have, Mr Greenwood, to
speak of any lady in such ambiguous
terms. The more you have received from
a woman, the less you should say.'

Ah ! but this is no secret, don't you
know ? Everybody will hear it soon. It
will ail be settled this evening.'

Jack looked at the pigmy with unfeigned
surprise.

What the d — 1 ! ' he exclaimed. ' You
don't mean to tell me there's anything
serious in it ? '

Mr Greenwood looked quite offended.

Serious, Mr Blythe. Why don't you
ask me at once if I'm a man of honour
or not ? Do you suppose I'd let any
woman get talked about just for my own
amusement 1 I've been brought up different

from that, don't you know ? and
whatever gentlemen may be accustomed
to do in the merchant service — '

'Here! just stow that about the service,
will you ? ' interrupted Jack quickly.
■* There are as good men in the merchant
service as out of it, and please to remember,
when you speak of it, that I'm
one of them. And, at all events, we
shan't go to you to teach us how to treat
a woman.'

Oh, dear ! Mr Blythe, I meant no
offence. I was only speaking at random,
don't you know 1 But you seemed to
think it strange I should have any intentions
with respect to Miss Vere, eh ?
Well, of course I know I shall have
trouble with my own family about it,
because we've never done anything of
the sort before — married an actress, don't
you know ? But I'm of age,' said Mr
Greenwood, drawing himself up to his full
height, ' and in these affairs I ask leave
of no one.'

Except the lady, I presume,' replied
Jack dryly.

Except the lady, Mr Blythe, as you
say. But the women — God bless them —
are not hard to please.'

I should think not,' said the young
officer, glancing at Harold Greenwood
critically ; ' and this lady, therefore, I am
to presume, has already succumbed ? '

Oh, yes,' replied Mr Greenwood, tittering
; * she has succumbed — decidedly succumbed.
I had not made up my own
mind concerning it until this morning,
but she made up hers a fortnight ago.
Oh, I've had plenty of encouragement,
don't you know ? The only thing that
has kept me back a little, is the fact of
her being an actress ; but I shall make ita
proviso that she gives up the stage.'

I should think she would give up
anything for you remarked Jack ironically.


Well, I generally find them pretty
amenable,' returned Harold Greenwood,

with the most ineffable conceit. * There
is a little girl in England now that is
most doosidly gone on me, don't you
know ? She would have followed me to
New Zealand if I hadn't prevented her, —
hid in the hold or the steerage — 'pon my
soul she would, only to be near me, and
to see me, don't you know ? They're very
faithful creatures, women are, when they
really love. Don't you think so ? '

I really cannot boast of your unlimited
experience,' replied Jack. ' No one has
ever hidden in the hold, or the steerage,
I am afraid, just to catch a glimpse
of me.'

Really. Well, I suppose it depends
very much on a fella himself, don't you
know .^ But the women always said I had
a way with me.'

'And when are you going to exercise
your " way " on Miss Vere '^, '

This evening. Oh, yes, it's quite
settled between us that I shall speak this
evening. She's expecting it, don't you

know ? But we've been so busy the last
fortnight studying our parts, I thought it
best not to unsettle our minds by thinking
of other things. But this evening it'll
be all right. I suppose you'll be coming
down to the theatricals, Mr Blythe,
eh ?'

Oh, yes, I hope to be there.'

Then, when they're over, I shall have
the pleasure of introducing you to the
future Mrs Greenwood. It'll be all settled
by then, don't you know ? Oh, shea
glorious creature. Such eyes — such a
mouth — such splendid hair, and such a
beautiful figure ! I do hope my people
won't make a jolly row about her being
an actress. But if they do, I've made
up my mind to go on the stage too, and
play her lovers. I don't think I should
like any other fella to play her lover.
It would make me so horribly jealous,
and when I'm jealous, I'm as bad as
Othello, don't you know ? '

Dear me ! ' said Jack, ' you must be

very dangerous. I shouldn't like to bethe
woman you caught tripping.'

By Jove ! I'd kill her, don't you know ? '
replied Greenwood ; ' but don't let's talk
of anything so horrid. Emily — that's
Miss Vere, you know — will never give
me any cause for jealousy — I'm sure of
that. She loves me too well. If you'd
seen her this morning when we went
through our scene together, you'd have
been ready to die of envy.'

Well, I congratulate you,' said Jack.
She's a very handsome woman, and a
very clever one, and a mine of gold
into the bargain. If you win her,
you'll be a lucky fellow. But don't
count your chickens before they're
hatched.'

Harold Greenwood was indignant at
the suggestion.

Don't count my chickens before
they're hatched ! ' he repeated. ' But
they are hatched, Mr Blythe, don't you
know '^, '

All the better for you, my boy,' laughed
Jack, as he walked away.

That afternoon at dinner time Mr
Coffin was on duty, and Blythe took his
place at the table. As he did so, he
glanced with some curiosity at the upper
end, where Miss Vere, the Vansittartss,
and the Leytons were all clustered about
the captain. Harold Greenwood was sitting
opposite the actress, devouring her
with his eyes, and listening open-mouthed
to every word she said. As his glance
met that of Vernon Blythe, he nodded to
him in a self-satisfied manner, and threw
a significant look across the table, as much
as to say, ' Now, you will see, don't you
know ?' and Vernon, in consequence, kept
his ears open for all that went on between
them. Miss Vere appeared to be in excellent
spirits, and quite looking forward
to the evening's amusement.

'My little *' Julia" here, is simply
perfect,' she said to Captain Lovell, as
she laid a kindly hand on Alice Leyton's

shoulder, * and when you see her in her
short-waisted frock, I expect you all to
lose your hearts.'

Oh, Miss Vere! how can you talk
so ? ' exclaimed Alice. ' When I hear you
speak, I shall be ashamed to open my
mouth.'

That's nonsense, dear,' replied the
actress. ' If you could play as well as I
do, who have been so many years on the
stage, my time and labour would have
been completely wasted. But you are
an excellent little actress, for an amateur,
and if you had had my training, you would
play quite as well.'

You say that to encourage me,' said
Alice.

And why shouldn't I encourage you ?
I assure you I am very proud of my
'* scratch " company, and feel sure we are
going to have a most enjoyable evening.
Mr Greenwood will distinguish himself
for one, I know.'

I shall do my best to please you, Miss

Vere, in every way, before the evening's
over, don't you know?' replied Harold
Greenwood, with a knowing glance, which
almost amounted to a wink, at Vernon
Blythe.

That's right she said cheerfully.

Captain Robarts, I hope you mean to
honour us by your attendance?'

Certainly, Miss Vere, unless the ship
claims my attention elsewhere. But you'll
have a good audience without me. Everybody
is looking forward to it with the
greatest expectation. The steward told
me there was quite a disturbance amongst
the steerage passengers when they heard
that they were all invited to attend.'

Poor dears!' sighed Miss Vere softly.

I remember once when my husband and
I were — '

But here she was interrupted by Alice
Leyton.

Miss Vere,' she exclaimed, loud enough
for all the table to hear, ' do you know
what you said ? '

What did I say ? ' asked the actress,
smiling.

Your husband ! Are you really
married ? '

At that question, the curiosity of all
the passengers was aroused, and none
more so than that of Vernon Blythe. The
actress glanced up and down the table at
the expectant faces, in amused surprise.

Married ! ' she echoed, laughing merrily.
* I thought all the world knew as
much as that. Why, of course I'm
married. Do I look like an old maid ?
What horrible suspicions have attached
themselves to me ! I've been married for
the last ten years. I have five children,*
she added, in a faltering voice, ' at home.'

Five children ! ' repeated Alice. * Oh,
Miss Vere, do tell me about them. What
are their names, and are they boys or
girls ? '

Not now, dear,' said her friend, as she
dashed her hand across her eyes. ' Come
to my cabin tomorrow, and you shall see

all their photographs. But if I talk of
them now — well, not to put too fine a
point upon it, I shall begin to cry, and
spoil my looks for to-night.'

How can you make up your mind to
leave them ? ' said Alice stupidly.

I am obliged to make up my mind toit.
I leave them for their sakes as well
as for my own. But my heart is very
much divided, you know. It is half in
England, and half in New Zealand. My
husband is my business manager, and preceded
me there by three months. I shall
meet him when we arrive at Canterbury,
and that thought is quite enough to
counterbalance the pain of parting with
my children.'

Poor Harold Greenwood had been fidgeting
so dreadfully on his seat during
this conversation, that he attracted the
actress's attention.

*You mustn't be offended, Mr Greenwood,'
she continued, smiling with her
beautiful eyes still wet with unshed tears,

VOL. III. B

if I tell you that why I took a fancy to
you is because there is something in your
face, and the colour of your hair, that reminds
me of my eldest boy. Dear little
fellow ! he went to school for the first
time when I left England, and I thought
we should both have broken our hearts.
If Mr Perkins were only with me — '

Is Mr Perkins your husband ? ' inquired
Alice.

Miss Vere burst out laughing.

Yes, my dear ! It is really true ; but
for Heaven's sake don't pursue the subject.
/ am Mrs Perkins, But I keep it a
secret of blood and death. Please never
call me anything but Emily Vere, or
I shall not answer to the name. And
now it must be time to go and see after
our dresses. Mr Greenwood ! didn't I
promise to be your lady's-maid to-night ?
If you find any difficulty in arranging
your costume, come to my cabin, and I
will try and imagine you are my little
boy, and play '' nurse " to you — '

No, no, thank you ! ' stammered
Harold Greenwood, as he tried to make
his escape from table. ' I shall be all
right, don't you know ? '

But Jack Blythe was not sufficiently
magnanimous to let the humiliated
wretch pass him, without standing a
jest at his own expense.

I say, old fellow,' he called out, as
Greenwood tried to slink by his chair,
don't you forget your promise to me
of this morning. You'll be sure to introduce
me to the future Mrs Greenwood
as soon as the theatricals are
over, won't you ? For the chickens
are all hatched, you know, and the
business is as good as settled already.'

But the unhappy Mr Greenwood would
not even attempt to say a word in his
own defence. Wrenching his coat-sleeve
from the grasp of Vernon
Blythe, he rushed to his berth, and
was seen no more till he appeared
upon the stage.

GRACE AND GODFREY.

Godfrey Garland and
Grace Vansittart were neither
of them included in the amateur
company that was to perform that
evening on board the Pandora. Parts
had been allotted to both of them at
first, but Miss Vansittart, who had no
idea of acting, found so much difficulty
in learning her lines and taking up
her positions, that she had voted the
whole concern a bore, and thrown up
her engagement in consequence. Upon
which Mr Harland had thought it politic

to follow suit. He knew that Grace
would not like to sit out and watch
him making mimic love to another
woman, so he told her that he preferred
sitting out as well ; and she was only
too delighted at his apparent devotion
to refuse to accept it. It was an old
story between them. The woman was
so deeply in love as to be blind to the
arts by which the man led her to believe
that he shared her feelings. And it
was Godfrey Harland's policy to be
more than usually attentive to Miss
Vansittart at this period. He saw
plainly that something had gone wrong
with the older folks. They were still
polite ; but all the cordiality with which
they had first greeted him had died away.
Mr Vansittart's manner had become
distant and cool, whilst the old lady
avoided him on every possible occasion.
He began seriously to fear that they
were only keeping up appearances until
they arrived at Tabbakooloo, and that

some disagreeable surprise awaited him
there. It therefore behoved him to
make all the running he could with the
daughter before they reached their destination,
so that there might be no
chance of her acquiescing in the decision
of her parents, if that decision
proved to be against him. He was
quite unprincipled enough (as Will
Farrell had suggested) to get the girl
into his power, so that there should be
no turning back for her.

The lite stage on which the comedy
was to be represented, consisted of a
few planks raised in the steerage, with
a row of footlights before them, which,
to do honour to this grand occasion,
had been surmounted above and around
with the Union Jack and other flags,
in the form of a proscenium. The
auditorium, which was filled with chairs,
benches, chests, barrels, and any other
articles capable of being used as seats,
was left in complete darkness, the only

light being an oil lamp hung in the
entry to guide the feet of the audience.
A rope tied across the upper end distinguished
the ' stalls,' reserved for the
saloon passengers, from the ' pit,' which
was given over indiscriminately to the
rest of the ship's company. All had
been cordially invited to attend, and the
place was crammed for some time before
the hour of commencement ; but Will
Farrell had been before everybody else,
and secured seats for Iris and Maggie
and himself on the benches that stood
nearest to the reserved portion of the
arena. Iris had, of course, informed
Maggie of the confidence that had
taken place between herself and Mr
Farrell, and the women were equally
anxious to see what the evening would
reveal to them. No one who was not
expecting to see her would have recognised
Iris Harland. She had pleaded an
attack of toothache as an excuse for
wrapping up her head in a black woollen

shawl, and had so enveloped her features
that they would have scarcely been visible,
even had there been light enough
to distinguish them. A few minutes
before the representation commenced, the
captain appeared, followed by the saloon
passengers, who, with a good deal of
laughing and talking, took their seats,
and Iris shrank back as she saw her
husband conduct Miss Vansittart to the
chairs just in front of her, so that there
were but a couple of feet between them.
He threw a careless glance behind him
as he took his seat ; but seeing only a
couple of dowdy - looking steerage passengers,
as he imagined, did not give
them a second thought throughout the
evening. Grace Vansittart was looking
flushed and handsome, though dressed in
an extravagant fashion for a performance
on board ship, and Godfrey Harland was
most attentive in folding her crimson shawl
about her shoulders, and seeing that she
had something to rest her feet upon.

Do keep it on, my darling,' Iris heard
him say in French, as Grace threw the
wrap rather impatiently from her. 'There
is a horrid draught in this place, and you
know you have a slight cold. For my
sake keep it on.'

I was sure he'd bring her here,' whispered
Farrell to Iris. ' All the old people,
you see, get as close as they can to the
stage, so that they may see and hear the
better. But his object is neither to be
seen nor heard. Can you understand the
lingo they're talking, Miss Douglas ? '

Iris nodded her head.

'Oh! well, then, it's all right. But I
was afraid he was going to trick us. He
is a deep 'un, and no mistake.'

Hush, Will,' said Maggie, * the play's
going to begin.'

At that juncture all eyes turned to the
stage, and divers were the opinions as to
whether Miss Vere's short waisted dress
of sunflower hue, tied with a sash under
her arms, or Miss Leyton's soft white

muslin, became her best. The acting
went smoothly, and the majority of the
audience were intensely interested in the
comedy and its exponents. But for some
there, a more thrilling drama, the incidents
of which were interwoven with
their very lives, was being enacted in the
auditorium.

Will Farrell had no personal interest
in Godfrey Harland's infidelity to his wife,
but he hated the man as he hated hell,
and longed to see him exposed on every
point. Maggie, too, had her reasons for
wishing to be revenged on him; and Iris
felt intuitively that in some unknown
way the happiness or misery of her
whole future life lay in the discovery of
that evening. As she listened to her
husband's conversation with Miss Vansittart,
she was convinced of one thing —
that she loved him no longer. Not a
particle of jealousy or regret assailed her
as she heard him pouring his tale of
love into another woman's ear. All she

felt was an Intense surprise that she
should ever have believed In, or fancied
she cared for, him. He seemed to appear
before her for the first time In his
true colours. Had she seen him long
ago, she thought, as she did then, she
never could have married him.

And while Iris thought thus, another
face rose up before her — the pleading,
earnest eyes of Vernon Blythe gazed into
hers, and she felt the tears of regret
rise to dim her sight. But she brushed
them hurriedly away. She would not
have had Farrell and Maggie think she
was weeping at what she saw before her,
for all the world. Besides, she wanted
to keep her mind clear. In order not to
lose a word of what was passing between
her husband and Miss Vansittart. And
as she listened she knew that all that
had been told her was true, and Godfrey
designed to ruin another life as he had
done hers.

In a few more weeks,' he whispered,

when the curtain, amidst much applause,
had descended on the first act of the
'Rivals,' 'we shall be in New Zealand,
Grace. Shall you be glad or sorry when
our voyage is at an end ? '

He still spoke in French, which he
had acquired fluently whilst knocking
about in the Southern States of America,
and Grace, fresh from her boarding-school,
retained sufficient knowledge of
the language to understand and answer
him.

Why should I be sorry ? ' she replied
to his question. ' We shall be as much
together then as we are now, shall we
not?'

Ah, that is the doubt that worries
me,' said Harland ; ' will your parents
permit a free intercourse between us ?
You know how few opportunities for
meeting occur on land to what they do
on board ship ; and unless I am received
as your accepted suitor — '

But you must be received as my

accepted suitor ! I will have no one
else interrupted Grace determinately.

My dearest, if it depended only on
yoUy I know what my happy fate would
be. But it is this horrid £ s. d., Grace !
I am so poor. Your father is certain to
look for money, in exchange for his
daughter's hand.'

Well, I don't know that, Godfrey !
Papa has often told me he is rich enough
to be able to afford to let me choose for
myself. And I have chosen ! If he
doesn't like it, it can't be helped! But
I have chosen you'

My sweet girl ! You will not be persuaded
to give me up, then, Grace "^ '

Not for worlds ! How could I .'^ '

But if, on arriving at Tabbakooloo,
your father should absolutely refuse to
consent to our engagement, what
then ? '

I shall marry you without his consent !
Godfrey, you will marry me ?' she added,
with a quick look of alarm.

He laid his hand on hers, with a soothing
gesture.

Do you doubt me, my darling ? Have
we not sworn to belong to each other ?
If you are determined to stick to me,
through thick and thin, I want nothing
more — '

She turned her head towards him then,
and whispered in his ear, and Iris could
just see the glistening tear in her eye, as
one of the lights fell across her face.

I understand,' he answered, ' and your
assurance was all I needed to make me
perfectly happy. It is an agreement, then.-^
Whatever any one may say or think, you
are to be my wife as soon as I can make
you so ? '

Whenever you like,' she said, slipping
her hand into his under cover of her
shawl.

They spoke without reserve, because
they quite believed that it was safe to do
so. The rest of the saloon passengers
were well in front of them. As to the

inmates of the second cabin and steerage,
who sat behind, they did not suppose fora
moment that any of them could understand,
even if they overheard, their words.
How little they imagined who sat just behind
them.

Godfrey,' said Grace, after a pause, * I
cannot believe I am really the first girl
to whom you have said such sweet things !
Tell me the truth now. Have you often
been in love before } '

Never ! That is, really in love, Grace.
I have had my flirtations and amourettes —
what man of my age has not ? — but I
never felt what it was to be in earnest
until now.'

Have you never thought of marrying
any other woman ? '

At this point-blank question, Iris could
see, even through the gloom, that Godfrey
winced.

Now, don't call me to book for my
thoughts, you little tyrant ! ' he answered,
with affected gaiety. * The fact remains

that — that — I am going to marry you. Is
not that sufficient ? '

Yes, more than sufficient. It makes
me so happy,' said the girl earnestly, * to
think that I shall belong to you only, and
that you will belong only to me ! The
world will seem like fairyland when we
share it together.'

Still, my darling, the truth remains
that, since they have seen that we love
each other, your parents have not been so
cordial to me as they were. You never
hear your father ask me to take a hand
at whist in the evenings now ; and as for
your mother, she scuttles out of the way
whenever she sees me coming. It makes
things very unpleasant for me, especially
as I am in Mr Vansittart's employment.
Has he ever warned you against me ? '

Never mind,' replied Grace soothingly;
it can make no difference to us if he has.
We are going to marry each other, whatever
they may say ; and when it is once
over, they will not hold out long against

their only child. Why, who have they
but me ? It will all come right, Godfrey,
never fear. And, meanwhile, we love
each other, and nothing on earth can
alter that.'

As Iris listened to the words of this
girl, whom love, however misdirected, was
transforming from a pert boarding-school
miss to a thoughtful woman, the tears
ran down her cheeks with pity and compassion.
It was terrible to her to sit
there, the lawful wife of Godfrey Har-land,
and hear another woman express
her implicit faith and trust in him ; whilst
she knew that, before long, she herself
must inevitably be the instrument to
open that woman's eyes, and expose the
treachery and falsehood of which she had
been made the victim. The idea turned
Iris sick and faint, and she rose from
her seat with the intention of leaving the
theatre.

What is the matter ? ' asked Farrell ;,
are you ill ? '

VOL. III. c

Yes,' she whispered back to him ;
I have heard enough ! Let me go to
my berth.'

They both wanted to accompany her,
but she over-ruled their request, and
begged them not to make a commotion
that might attract attention to their party.
So they let her have her own way,
and as soon as she could do so without
disturbing the audience, she crept away.
She was trembling all over, however,
as she did so ; and when she reached
the entrance of the auditorium, and felt
the fresh air blowing on her face, she leant
against the side for a moment to recover
herself, and pulled the wrap off her face.

Are you not well 1 ' said a voice by
her side.

She looked up and encountered Vernon
Blythe. The sight of him set her tears
flowing in earnest.

Oh, yes ! thank you. Only the place
is too hot for me, and I am going on
deck instead.'

Let me go with you.'

No ! no ! Why should I take you
away from your amusement ? I am perfectly
well able to go by myself.'

Have I made you afraid of me, Iris ?'
he asked gently. ' You need not be.
You must know that if I offended you,
it was done in ignorance of your position,
and I shall never repeat it. Show
me that I am forgiven by letting me
attend you now.'

There is nothing to forgive,' she faltered,
placing her hand upon his for a
moment ; * and I was only sorry that
circumstances had misled you. But why
have you never spoken to me since ?
Am I to lose your friendship as well
as — as — everything 1 '

I have been too unhappy to be able
to trust myself to speak to you,' said
Vernon frankly, as he led her on to
the quarter-deck. * The shock of your
intelligence was greater to me than you
may think. I had been living on my

hope ever since I met you again, and
believed "you to be free, and v^hen you
dashed it from me, it knocked me over
that's all. Don't be angry with me.
A woman can't understand a man's feelings
in such matters. We can't drink
milk after brandy. And so I have kept
out of your sight, that I might dream of
you as little as possible. And I didn't
think that you would miss me.'

Oh, yes, I have,' replied Iris simply.
All my pleasure seemed gone with
you. Perhaps, as you say, I cannot enter
into your feelings ; but I think I would
rather have " milk " than nothing at all'

Let us have some " milk " now,
then,' replied Jack, almost cheerfully, ashe
placed her under the shelter of the
long-boat, and established himself by her
side. ' Let us be friends, since we can
be nothing more. And now, what is the
fresh trouble, for I can see there is something
fresh by your face ? Treat me like
a friend, and tell me everything.'

Yes ! indeed I will,' said Iris, ' for
I feel that it will be a great comfort,
and perhaps a help to me. I will tell
you everything, and you shall advise
me what is best to be done. And in
the first place, Mr Blythe — '

That's a bad beginning,' interrupted
Jack, ' for in the first place, you must
not call me ''Mr Brother '

What am I to call you then ? '

What used you to call me when we
walked and talked together at Dunno ? '

Ah ! that was such a long time ago,
and you were such a boy ! '

'Well, some people say I'm not much
more than a boy now, and, at all events,
it is not so long ago as to be forgotten.
I think you used to call me *' Vernie "
then. Won't you call me by that name
now ? '

If it will please you — ' commenced
Iris hesitatingly.

It will ^\M^ me about as much pleasure
as I am capable of, Iris. If I may

not be your lover, let me fancy myself
your friend.'

There is no fancy about that she
answered warmly ; * and I will call you
whatever you like. Come nearer to me
then, Vernie, and let me tell you all.'

IRIS AND VERNON.

E drew nearer to her, on that
invitation, and took her hand
in his. Iris trembled slightly,
but she did not withdraw it.

The worst thing I have to accuse
myself of, with regard to you, Vernier
is that I deceived you on our first meeting,
by letting you believe I was a widow.
But I was frightened into the deception,
I did not know what else to say. You
asked me why I was masquerading onboard
the Pandora under the name of
Douglas, and it was impossible for me

to tell you then. Now, things have gone
so far, that I feel I must confide in someone,
and I know you will respect my
confidence.'

I will respect as much as I shall
value it. Iris. But tell me all that has
happened to you since we parted. You
can't think how ignorant I am. After
that never-to-be-forgotten day, when I
rushed half mad from your presence —
but there, we won't say another word
about my troubles — but since that time
I have never heard anything of you
except the bare fact of your marriage.
I do not even know your husband's
name, unless it is Douglas. I don't
know where you have been living, or
if you have been happy or miserable.
Tell me your whole story — that is, if it
will not give you pain.'

I mean to tell it you, Vernie. I wish
you to hear it. Until you do, you cannot
give me the counsel of which I
stand so much in need. You know that

when we met, I was already engaged to
be married. My poor old father, who
was very weak and easily taken in, had
made the acquaintance of a good-looking
young Englishman, fresh home from
America, who seemed to have plenty
of money, and to have been everywhere,
and seen everything, — a man with a
pleasant, free manner and a glib tongue,
and no objection to tell an untruth,
though, of course, I didn't know that
at the time. Well, he brought him to
our house, and he fell in love with me,
and — and — '

'And you fell in love with him. Iris.'

I suppose I did.'

Why do you say ** suppose " ? '

Because I have my doubts now as to
whether I ever did love him. However,
I was only eighteen, and I thought I did.
He seemed everything that was delightful tome,
and you looked such a boy by his side.'

Ah ! poor me. Leave me out of the
story altogether.'

No ; I don't want to do so. I am
proud to remember that you cared for me
and feel honoured by your preference, and
still more, Vernle, that it should have
lasted all this time.'

He squeezed her hand, but made no
answer.

Well, we were married not two months
after I had sent you away, and he took me
to Liverpool.'

What was his name. Iris ?'

Wait a minute, and I will tell you. I
was too young at first to understand what
the mode of my husband's life could mean.
I thought it very strange that it altered so
constantly ; that sometimes we lived in
big hotels, and sometimes in squalid
lodgings ; that at one time he would
appear to have his pockets full of money
and at others we had nothing but bread
and cheese to eat, and creditors were
clamouring all day to have their bills
paid. My husband, too, spent all his
evenings and most of his nights away.

and I was very friendless and solitary inconsequence.
One thing I did very soon
understand, and that was, that he was
addicted to intemperance. He was seldom
quite sober, and his violence when intoxicated
kept me in constant dread of him.'

My poor darling,' cried Jack impetuously,
and then correcting himself, * I beg
your pardon, Iris,' he continued ; ' but why
didn't you go back to your father ? '

Oh, Vernie, how could I ? Don't you
remember how poor my father, Captain
Hetherley, was ? He had nothing but his
half-pay to live on, and he was getting old
and needed a few comforts. How could I
have thrown myself on him for support ?
Besides, he died in the first year of my
marriage. His home could not have provided
me with shelter for long.'

Well, dear, go on. What next ?

There were other things for me to bear
beside the shame of debt, and the fear of
my husband's cruelty. I discovered, only
too soon, that his love for me had been

but a passing fancy, and that his fancy
altered like the wind. Had I cared for
him, I might have broken my heart from
jealousy of others.'

Oh, Iris. What man could have the
baseness to treat you in such a manner.
You, who had been so delicately nurtured
and trained, and so much indulged. Why
could have given you a happier and more
respectable lot than this.'

I have often thought so too,' she
whispered.

Have you really ? ' exclaimed Vernon
joyfully. * Is it possible that in the midst
of so much misery you had time to think
of me ? '

Oh, often, often. When I have been
most unhappy and most disappointed, the
remembrance of you has come back to me
most clearly, and I have longed to be able
to tell you that I was sorry I had caused
you so much pain.'

Never mind, my dearest. You are
making it up to me now a thousandfold.

Let me hear the rest of your
story.'

It was not long before my husband
took me away from Liverpool, and then
we lived in all sorts of places, but it was
always the same life of solitude and discomfort
for me, until Maggie came to live
with us, and be my friend. He never
dared to treat me so unkindly after she
came. She seemed to hold some sort of
power over him — in fact, I often thought
he was half afraid of her. Well, this went
on until about a year ago, when we came
to live in London. And there I found out
that my husband made his money entirely
by gambling. He hadn't a penny of his
own, and he was constantly getting into
scrapes, and having to run away and keep
in hiding for weeks together, and Maggie
and I used nearly to starve whilst he was
gone. But he made some rich friends in
London nevertheless, during some of his
lucky moments, and spent half his time
with them. And one day he told me he

should be obliged to run over to France
for a few weeks, as his creditors were
pressing him very hard, and I believed
him, until I picked up a letter he left
behind him by accident, and found that
he had accepted an appointment in New
Zealand instead, and was going out in this
very ship

In the Pandora!' exclaimed Jack.
You don't mean to tell me your husband
is on board this vessel ? '

I do mean to tell you so. I am the
wife of Godfrey Harland.'

Of Mr Harland. Good heavens ! '
said Jack ; 'but. Iris — '

Don't interrupt me, Vernie. I have
nearly reached the end of my story. You
can understand now why Maggie and I
are here, hiding in the second cabin.
Mr Harland intended to leave us in
England to beg — to steal — or to starve.
He knew we had no other means of
subsistence. But I determined to circumvent
him. If he was to draw a good

salary as Mr Vansittart's agent, I did not
see why he should not support me as I
have a right to be supported. So Maggie
and I sold all our little belongings, and
came after him, with the intention of not
revealing our identity until we landed in
New Zealand. But now I hardly know
what to do.'

You are Godfrey Harland's wife ? *
mused Vernon Blythe. ' It seems incredible
to me. And yet how intuitively
that man and I have disliked each other
from the moment we met. But, Iris, do
you know that he is passing himself off
as an unmarried man, and that all the
ship says he is engaged to Miss Vansittart
? '

I know more, Vernie. I sat just behind
them this evening at the theatricals,
and heard their conversation. They spoke
in French, and thought, therefore, they
could do so unreservedly. She considers
herself undoubtedly engaged to him.
They discussed their marriage prospects

together, and agreed that if, on landing.
Mr and Mrs Vansittart refused their consent,
they were to be married at once
without waiting for it. And now I have
told you all this, that you may be able
to advise me. What ought I to do ?
What is my duty to do in this matter?'

To stop it at once, Iris. What has
this poor girl Miss Vansittart been guilty
of that you should let her suffer one
jot more than is necessary ? Were I
you, I should go this evening to
Mr Vansittart, and tell him the whole
story.'

Oh, no,' replied Iris, shrinking from
the idea ; * not till I have spoken to
Godfrey, Vernie, and given him the
opportunity to return to his duty. Would
it not seem like malice, or jealousy, to
go to the Vansittartss first ? They don't
like him, you know, and they look coldly
on his attentions to their daughter — Miss
Vansittart acknowledged as much to-night
and so they would not blame him for

withdrawing from them. And with her,
of course, he must make his own peace.'

And what is to follow the disclosure
of your proximity ? ' demanded Jack,
somewhat sarcastically. ' Tears, kisses,
repentance, forgiveness, blue-fire, and
general rejoicing.'

Iris was silent.

Tell me, Iris, are you going to tumble
into your husband's arms as soon as you
meet him, and take him back again if he
promises to be a good boy and never doit
again .^ '

You don't know me,' was all she
answered.

I know what women are, as a rule,
stupid, soft-hearted creatures, that believe
every word that is said to them, and are
always ready to think themselves in the
wrong.'

Up to a certain point, Vernie, perhaps
we do. But there comes a day for most
of us, when we feel that we can forgive
no longer. And I have reached that day

VOL. III. D

and passed It. Were I of a revengeful
nature, I should think there was no motive
but revenge in what I am going todo
now.'

It would be a solemn duty left undone
were you to ignore it, Iris. Whatever
might happen to that poor girl
hereafter, would lie at your door. Were
I to follow my own wishes, I should say, —
let the brute commit bigamy, and free
yourself from him. Why should you be
linked all your life to a man who is less
than a husband to you ? It is not he who
deserves our pity. But for the woman
who is innocently walking into the trap
he has laid for her, we cannot feel too
much. I think you should inform the
Vansittartss, and deprive Harland of the
appointment they have promised him, at
once. Why should such a scoundrel be
placed in a position of trust and emolument
? '

Iris's hazel eyes dilated with horror.

But, Vernon, you don't know him.

What should / do under such circumstances
— left at his mercy in a strange
land ? Why, he would kill me, in revenge
for his loss. Oh, no ; / dare not ! I shall
not even threaten him with the disclosure
that I am his wife. I don't want to live
with him again. I detest the thought of
it. All I meant to tell him was that I
am here, and as long as he sends me
enough money to live on, I promise to
remain quiet.'

But, Iris, that looks like collusion tome.
Under such circumstances, you will
leave him free to work what villainy he
chooses, so long as you get your remittances.
Is that justify'

The girl bent her head upon her knees
and rocked herself backwards and forwards,
moaning.

Oh, dearest, don't do that ! ' cried
Vernon ; ' you distress me beyond measure.
Is it possible this brute inspires you with
so much fear '^, '

'Fear I' she repeated, with a shudder,

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF IM IW^I'^-"

I am so much afraid of him that I feel,
when the moment comes, I shall be too
cowardly to speak at all ! Oh, Vernie !
let him go on. What does it signify tome
? Miss Vansittart is as well able to
take care of herself as I was ; and if
she suffers — well, we all suffer ! I think
we are born for nothing else. But I
cannot go back to him. I would rather
throw myself overboard at once ! '

Iris,' said Vernon, and his voice shook
audibly as he spoke, * don't be angry
with me for what I am going to say.
I should not have dared to speak my
mind, had not your distress emboldened
me. But — if I am not utterly distasteful
to you, darling — let me save you from
all this misery. Let me take you away
from it ! You shall never say then that
you need love or protection. My heart
has been yours since we first met, and
my arm shall be at your service till
death parts us! Will you come, Iris i^
will you be my wife — in deed if not in

name — and let me try and make up to
you for the wretched failure of your
married life ? *

She looked up into his brave, kind
young face with surprise, but without
any horror.

Oh, how good you are ! ' she exclaimed
gratefully ; ' and how you must love me
to make such a proposal. To offer to
cloud all your life and prospects with the
burden of a disappointed and brokenhearted
woman, — a woman who would
bring shame on your name and your
mother's, and be but a sorry pleasure
to you after all, so that you may patch
up her ruined life, and make her feel
at ease once more. Do you think I
would accept your offer, Vernie ?- — that
I would be so selfish as to do it ? Some
women might forget to be grateful, in
prating to you of the wrong of such an
action. But I can't. I can only see the
love that prompted it, and thank you
from the bottom of my heart. But I

don't mean to avail myself of it all the
same.'

You could never be a burden to me,
Iris,' he answered simply; 'for I have
loved you so long. And as for my
mother — you don't know what a good,
generous, warm-hearted creature she is.
She would brave anything for the sake
of the woman who loved me!

But I have never said I loved you,'
returned Iris, with a faint smile.

Will you say it now ? It would make
me so very happy ! Will you say that
if you were free — you would be my
wife ? '

Oh, yes ! yes ! A thousand times over ! '
she answered, weeping. ' / do love you,
Vernie ; I love you as much as you love
me. But don't talk of it ; it will never,
never be ! Such things don't happen in
this world. I have forged my own chains,
and I must wear them, however hardly
they may press upon me ; but I shall never
forget what you have said to me to-night,



and the remembrance will make me happier
to the last day of my life.'

Then I won't wish my words unsaid.
Iris. But with respect to Harland, what
do you intend to do ? '

I will think it over to-night. I have
resolved to speak to him. The only thing
is, how shall I do it '^ Perhaps I will
write a letter, and you shall give it to him.
I would not like to trust anybody ; or, ashe
has a deck cabin to himself, I may go
and speak to him after he has retired for
the night. It little matters how it is done,
but it will be done before this time tomorrow.'


That is a brave girl,' said Blythe, ' and,
remember, there is no cause for fear. /
am here to protect you, dearest, and not a
hair of your head shall be harmed on landor
at sea, so long as I stand by to prevent it! '

You make me feel so safe,' replied Iris,
with a grateful sigh. * I will go below now,
Vernie, and dream that I have one friend
left to defend me against my enemy.'

THE HOUSE AMIDSHIPS.

^;^^HE next morning the weather
was damp and squally, the air
close and depressing. There
was a faint breeze from the westward, but
the clouds, which at times obscured the
sun and poured down torrents of cold rain,
were making a northerly course.

The day was by no means an enjoyable
one, and the spirits of the passengers —
which were suffering a reaction after the
excitement attendant on the theatricals —
would have fallen considerably with the
state of the atmosphere, had they not been

kept up by the welcome news, that should
the vessel be lucky enough to get a fair
wind, they would actually sight land in
less than a week. In a week's time, perhaps,
they would step ashore, and those
fond meetings, of which they had dreamt
throughout the voyage, would be realised.
Under such thoughts and anticipations,
they were mostly flurried and restless,
given to talking excitedly and laughing at
untoward moments, and appearing on deck
after every squall to look out for the
longed-for gale that should blow them to
their destination, only, however, to be
driven below again by a remorseless storm
that enveloped the Pandora in a drenching
shower.

There was one portion of the vessel
which played an important part upon the
voyage, but has not yet been mentioned.
This was the forward house amidships.
There were two houses built upon the
maindeck, one abaft the mainmast on the
quarter-deck, the other abaft the foremast.

The former was the smoke-room, the latter
was divided into five separate sections,
and to make their respective positions
clear, it is necessary to give a full description
of them.

In the after-part of the house amidships,
on the morning in question, Billy-banks,
the West Indian cook, was busily
employed in peeling potatoes. Seated
on a kid in solemn majesty, with his
rolled-up sleeves displaying two coal-black
arms, he disengaged the spuds
from their jackets, and tossed them into
a bucket of water to rinse, previous to
putting them in the copper. Occasionally
he would turn towards the stove,
and lift the cover of a saucepan, lest the
contents should boil over ; and the sailors
came and went meanwhile, but Billy never
answered their coarse jests except by a
movement of the head.

The after-door, which faced the main-hatch,
was partly hidden by the donkey
winch, and under this convenient shelter,.

Billy, surrounded by his pots and pans
was able to roast and boil at his ease.

Now and then a lazy shell back would
stretch himself out before the galley fire,
and spin him a long yarn, and Billy
would reward him for his trouble with a
savoury ' flap-jacks ' (the sailor's name
for a pancake), or the remains of a dish
that had left the saloon table ; for the
black cook seldom left the galley, and
the steward, whose business it was to
look after him, always found him at his
post. In truth, Billy had nowhere else
to go. He disliked the rough horseplay
of the seamen, and could not stand
chaff' well enough to associate happily
with them ; the carpenter and boatswain
seldom invited him to their berths, and
his own was far from agreeable, even to
a black man's nostrils. It was situated
on the right side of the house, built fore
and aft, and was certified to hold four
men, therefore he had ample room. But
the odour pervading the place was more

than any one could be expected to endure.
In the top bunk Billy slept. His bedding
consisted of an old straw mattress
and pillow, two red blankets, and a stained
and faded monkey jacket, which he used
as a coverlet. Across the room, suspended
on a line, hung sundry dilapidated
and discoloured articles of linen,
supposed to be clean ; and in the corner,
lashed to the deck, was a sea-chest,
adorned with the brightest colours, like
a Runcorn flat.

In the lower bunks, tin pannikins, new
brooms, chopping-boards, and kids were
securely stowed, so that the rolling of
the vessel might not set them clattering
against each other; and in the after
corner four mysterious casks were made
fast to the stanchions. These casks contained
' slush,' which is always recognised
as part of the cook's perquisites at sea.
And Billy, who was either too lazy or
too frightened to stow it, like a rational
being, in the forehead, kept the unsavoury,

nauseous matter In his berth.
Few, perhaps, may, luckily for themselves,
be acquainted with the stuff. It
is the skimming of all the greasy liquids,
the odds and ends which may be left
upon the dinner plates, the scrapings of
the frying-pans, the searchings of the

kids ' — in fact, every conceivable kind
of oily substance which may fall into the
cook's hands, and which is carefully collected
and stowed away, to be sold on
landing at a high price for the manufacture
of different kinds of machinery oil.

When the ' menavellins ' have been kept
for a month, the sickly stench from their
decomposition may be well imagined, and
no living creature but a negro could have
slept in the foetid air which exhaled from
them. It is very certain that coloured
noses can stand much more than white
ones. It only needs the introduction of
an European to Cow Yard, which is the

nigger ' locality of Port of Spain, or to
the back slums of China Chow, Calcutta,

or to Twenty-seventh Street, in
Rangoon, to demonstrate the truth of the
assertion. The cleansing of the mythical
Augean stables would be a simple task
compared to the purification of any one
of the above-mentioned localities. In
such squalid filth and rank odours can
both the East and West Indians live
and thrive.

But enough of Billy Banks. On the
other side there slept, in a berth of the same
dimensions, two more wholesome personages
— Alexander M' Donald, the carpenter,
commonly called ' Chips,' and William
Hamlin, boatswain. Their little domicile
was ship-shape, and displayed an air of
comfort. The upper bunks were used
for sleeping berths, and the lower served
as lockers for different stores.

Iron bolts, nuts, sheaves, and screws
were kept in different compartments, besides
spun yarn, mallets, small blocks,
and marlinspikes.

There were three sea-chests that were

used as seats, and a small table (that
could be shipped for meals, and lowered
when room was required) was hinged to
the bulkhead.

Under the swinging lamp above the
table a neat pipe rack, filled with * clays,'
had been fixed by the carpenter, and his
shipmate had added to their homely comforts
by making a fancy lashing for the
water - beaker, which was resting on
chocks at the further end.

As for their beds, a patchwork quilt,
like Joseph's coat of many colours — a
parting present from his wife — distinguished
Hamlin's resting-place from that
of ' Chips,' which was covered by a traveling
rug, representing a furious orange
and red tiger, in the act of springing on
a defenceless green and yellow woman,
cowering under a blue and purple garment.


The boatswain, like his commanding
officer, was a man of few words. His
voice was gruff, and his hard life had

made him reserved and unpolished, but
he was good hearted, and often passed
over the faults that came under his notice.
The men in his watch were engaged upon
various duties that did not require his
supervision, so, after satisfying himself
that they were steadily at work, and the
mate was nowhere in sight, he stepped
over the weather board of his berth, and
lighting a pipe, sat down to refresh
himself with a few unlicensed puffs.

Shortly afterwards he was joined by
Chips,' who entered ostensibly to fetch,
a new cold chisel, but when he discovered
that his friend was drawing the calumet
of peace, he chopped up a pipeful of
plug, which he produced from under his
mattress, and came to an anchor by his side.

The carpenter (as his name denoted)
hailed from Scotland, and was a loquacious
fellow, often amusing himself whilst at
work by singing snatches of his favourite
Burns, extolling the virtues and beauties
of his native land.

Dirty weather ! ' he remarked, as he
took his seat beside HanHn.

We shall get a spell of this wind in
the wrong quarter, if I'm not mistook,'
said the boatswain, with an ominous
Httmph,' as he filled the berth with
clouds of smoke, sucking at his pipe
as if he had not enjoyed such a treat
for weeks past.

'Ay, ay, laddie; but it's unsteady,'
replied Chips, ' and maybe it will shift
round to the right quarter before midnight.
Them lassies aft are near piping
their eyes because she's made so little
headway, but they'll see their men before
a week's over their heads for all that.'

What's for dinner ? ' demanded the unsentimental
boatswain.

Peasoup and pork,' replied ' Chips.'
I can eat the salt meat this weather ;
it gives me a twist ; but I shall be glad
when we gets alongside the New Zealand
mutton — not the tinned stuff, you ken, but
the real article.'

VOL. III. E

Hand me a pannikin,' said the boatswain,
who detected the approach of the
first officer, and stooping down, he drew
a mug of water, and drank it off. Then,
without a look at his colleague, he put
the pannikin in the lower bunk, and
stepped out upon the deck.

^ Look here, boatswain,' said Mr Coffin,

send a couple of hands up to shift that
royal ; and, carpenter,' he continued to
M 'Donald, ' I want you to see about the
steps of that side ladder ' ; and with an

Ay, ay, sir,' the petty officers prepared
to carry out his orders.

Between the two berths was a large
air-shaft which was used as a ventilator
to the 'tween decks, and separated the
cosy little place just described, and which
was pervaded by a healthy smell of
Stockholm tar, from the inodorous hovel
of Billy Banks.

The fifth division of the house formed
a room which was called the spare galley.
An iron partition alone separated it from

the kitchen, which rendered it so hot
that it would have been impossible for
any one to live, or sleep there ; and as
it was considered a dangerous locker in
which to keep the spare suit of sails, it
was thrown open for the public use. It
was but a small compartment, built
athwart-ships, with a teak-wood door, and
dead-lights at either side.

The jolly - boats were kept, bottoms
upward, on the skids which rested upon
the house, and served as shelter from the
squalls, and a welcome haven for the sailors
on watch on rainy nights.

During the morning in question, a
purple curtain rose and shut out the
faint gleam of the sun, and then burst
suddenly upon the Pandora in a pitiless
storm of rain, mingled with large hailstones.


Iris Harland, who had been walking
up and down the deck, trying in vain to
decide how she should disclose her identity
to her husband, without encountering

danger from the vials of his wrath, was
caught by the shower, and obliged to
run for shelter under the boats until
the violence of the gale should have somewhat
passed over.

Look 'ere, missy, step inside there,'
said one of the sailors, opening the door
of the spare galley ; ' it'll be nice and
warm for ye.'

Thank you,' replied Iris, whose slight
clothing was already wet through ; and
as she took advantage of his offer, the
sailor (whose watch below it was) firmly
closed the weather door, leaving the
one to leeward open.

Ye'll soon be ashore now, missy,'
he said, wishing to open a conversation ;

we're almost there by this time.'

Yes ; I'm very glad,' replied Iris
vaguely, looking dreamily before her ;

we have had a capital voyage, have
we not .'^ '

Nought to growl on,' answered the
man ; * fine weather — a good ship — no

deaths — and a doctor ready to give us a
clean bill of health. I 'spoke now,
missy, as you're going' out to meet your
friends, — your sweetheart, may be — if I
may make so bold. Ah, it won't belong
before you II get a husband, /
know.'

But Iris did not answer him. Her
frame was trembling like an aspen leaf —
her cheeks were blanched — her breath
had almost stopped. For another passenger
had rushed suddenly in to take
refuge from the storm, and stood beside
her, and that other was Godfrey
Harland, her husband. The moment
for discovery had come, and notwithstanding
all the encouragement that
Vernon Blythe had tried to give her,
Iris felt like a criminal tied to the
stake.

'You are not well, missy,' said the
sailor, noticing her perturbation ; ' shall I
fetch you some water ? '

She motioned him away with her

hand, afraid to trust herself to speak,
and Garlands attention was attracted
by her very silence.

Can / be of any assistance ? ' he
asked, coming forward ; and in her desperation
Iris pulled her hood off her
face, and turned to confront him. She
never thought of the sailor's presence,
or that it would be better to delay
speaking to Godfrey until they should
be alone together. She was like a
patient, forced sooner or later to undergo
a cruel operation, who puts it off and
off, until at some critical moment he
rushes blindly at his fences, lest his
courage should again fail him by delay.
As Harland caught sight of her face,
he staggered backwards.

'Good God!' he exclaimed; 'you
here ? What farce is this, and why
have I been kept in the dark all this
while ? '

Yes,' Iris answered slowly, but with
teeth that chattered with apprehension



*/ am here, /, your wife. And by

what right do you claim to have

been told where I was, or for what
purpose ? '

FACE TO FACE.

T this juncture the sailor, seeing
breakers ahead, began to feel
awkward, which he evinced by-passing
his cap from one hand to the
other, and shuffling his feet about.

Well, missy, as ye're better now,' he
said, breaking in upon their conference,

I think I'll make bold to leave ye.
Good-morning.'

No, no!' cried Iris, with quick alarm,

don't go.' And then, ashamed of the
inference of her words, she added, — * Oh,
yes ! of course, you have your work todo.

I am all right, thank you, and I will
stay with — with — this gentleman's

She spoke with so bitter a sarcasm, that
as soon as the sailor had departed, Godfrey
Harland seized her arm.

Good heavens ! ' he exclaimed, ' what
do you mean by speaking like that ? Do
you want the whole ship to guess our
history ? '

Iris shook off his grasp as though he
had been a viper.

Don't dare to touch me,' she said defiantly,
or the whole ship shall hear our
history. * You know which of us would
suffer most in that case. And don't imagine
I am friendless here. Heaven has
sent protectors to me in my need. I
have but to raise my voice, to be defended
against your violence.'

Another lover, I presume. Who is
the happy man .-^ ' asked Harland sarcastically.


Iris's cheeks glowed scarlet.

How mean you are,' she answered.

Your prospective good fortune has not
altered your nature one whit. You still
try to find a cover for your own faults,
by the pretence of laying the same blame
on others. You know that I have never
encouraged the attentions of any man
since I had the misfortune to receive yours.
It would be well if you could say as much
for yourself.'

I do not understand you,' said Harland,
with affected unconcern.

I can easily make my meaning plain
to you,' replied Iris, as she looked him
steadily in the face.

Now that the supreme moment had
actually arrived, her timidity vanished
as if by magic. She appeared to be
inches taller, as she stood before him
with her feet planted on the deck — every
muscle in her body strained, and her lips
firmly pressed upon her teeth. She looked
like some mother about to do battle for
her child, — like a martyr ready to die for
her religion. The delicate, fragile girl had

become majestic under the influence of
her righteous wrath, and as Harland tried
to meet her flashing eyes, he cowered before
their gaze.

And Iris felt as dauntless as she looked.
All the misery of her married life came back
to her in that moment — her husband's violence
and cruelty — his cowardly attacks upon
her honour — the mean way in which he had
intended to desert her — to give her courage.
She had the strength of twenty women as
she stood before him, and had he attempted
to lay a hand upon her, she would have
struck him across the face. The tones of
his sarcastic voice, ringing with the old
insults, had raised her blood to boiling
pitch, and few would have recognised Iris
Harland, sitting in judgment on herrecreant
husband, with the Miss Douglas who had
looked like a drooping lily in the second
cabin, or even with the tearful Iris who
had sat with her hand in Jack Blythe's
the night before, and told him of the suffering
she had passed through.

Godfrey Harland hardly recognised her
himself. He trembled with fear. All his
vaunted courage fled before the woman
whom he had wronged, and left nothing
but a sullen brutality behind it. How
should he answer the questions she would
put to him ? In what possible way excuse
himself .f^ He felt there was nothing to be
done, but to try and make peace with
her. ' Peace at any price,' must be his
motto, at all events for the present, and
the future must take care of itself. And
so all he answered to her assertion was, —

I really don't know why you should
meet me in this extraordinary manner, as
if I had committed some crime in leaving
England. You know that I was forced
to leave it. I told you so plainly. What
I want to know is, why yoii have left it
also?'

I left it to follow your fortunes, as I
have a right to do,' replied Iris. ' You
thought to evade me, — to leave me to
starve in London. You knew that my



pride would not have permitted me to
appeal to any of my friends, but, so long
as I was off your hands, you did not care
what became of me.'

Oh, no, no ; come, children, it was not
so bad as that,' replied Harland, trying to
soothe her. ' I am going out to New
Zealand for your good, as well as my own,
and always intended to send you half of
all that I may be able to earn there.'

'It is a lie,' replied Iris ; ' and don't you
dare to call me by that name, for I will
not stand it. What you intended by going
out to New Zealand was to marry Grace
Vansittart, and ignore me altogether.
Don't take the trouble to deny it, for I
know everything. I sat behind you last
night at the theatricals, and heard every
word you said to each other. And now
Godfrey Harland, who holds the trump
card — you or I ? '

He did not attempt to answer her, but
turned his face towards the open door,
and stood gnawing his moustaches, and

wondering how he should extricate himself
from the morass of perplexity in
which he was sinking.

You did not give one thought to me —
left to struggle with poverty as best I
could. Had I remained behind, I might
have become anything — a lost, abandoned
woman — God knows ! But I have followed
you, as you see, and I am here to
claim you as my husband.'

How did you find out I was travelling
by the Pandora ? ' he asked. ' Who has
been playing the spy upon me ? '

No one but yourself! You are supposed
to be a clever man, but cleverer
men than you have been foiled before now
by a woman. Did you think I believed
all you told me about your flight to
Harfleur, when you bid me good-bye, and
left your Judas kisses on my lips. Why,
I had Mr Vansittart's letter in my pocket
at that very moment, and knew that
you had accepted the offer contained
in it.'

Mr Vansittart's letter,' stammered
Harland.

Yes ; the letter which you left behind
you when you went to keep the appointment
which sealed your fate and mine.
Godfrey, I have followed you across the
Atlantic, not from feelings of affection,
but revenge. I have a right to claim
support and recognition at your hands,
and if you refuse to give them me, you
must take the consequences.'

What will you do ? ' gasped Harland.

I will expose you before the whole
ship's company. I will let Captain Robarts,
and the Vansittartss, and everybody
know what you are, and who you are —
not Mr Godfrey Harland, the gentleman
who is not too proud to work for his
living, in order that he may aspire to the
hand of his employer's daughter ; but
Godfrey Harland, the married man who
deserted his wife — Godfrey Harland, the
gambler and bettor, who had to fly from
his creditors — nay, more than that,' continued

Iris, waxing louder in her excitement,
* Godfrey Harland, who is not
<* Godfrey Harland" any more than they
are, but Horace Cain, the forger,
who — '

Stop, stop, for God's sake ! ' he cried
in a hoarse voice, as he extended a trembling
hand towards her mouth. ' Story
and let me think for a moment what is
best to be done.'

Ah, Godfrey, you are the one to
plead for mercy now ! ' she exclaimed
triumphantly, as she watched him wipe
away the beads of perspiration that had
started to his brow.

The violence of the squall still prevented
the sailors that were below from
leaving their retreat, and the passengers
from coming on deck. Had it been fine
weather, this conspicuous place of meeting,
and the high words that were passing
between Harland and his wife, would
certainly have attracted notice ; but the
howling of the wind, and the raging of

the turbulent sea, were more than sufficient
to drown their conversation.

I suppose that brute Farrell has been
talking to you,' said Godfrey, when he
had somewhat recovered his equanimity ;
and I have to thank him for the information
you are so ready to believe. But
I can tell you, you have been made a
dupe of. The man is a confirmed liar.
I met him before we came on board ship,
and gave him a bit of my mind, and he
is trying to revenge himself on me for it
now. However, that is 77iy concern.
You can safely leave me to deal with
Mr Will Farrell, and his unauthorised
libels. But what am I to do with regard
to yourself. You have chosen to follow
me out of England against my wishes,
and to put in your claim to be considered
my wife. Suppose,' he continued, significantly
lashing his legs with an end
of rope he had picked up from the
deck, whilst he eyed her with his sinister
glance, 'suppose I choose to accept the

VOL. III. F

position, and treat you as a husband
has a right to treat a rebellious wife —
what then ? '

You dare not,' she panted. * If you
attempt to raise your hand against mein
the slightest degree, I will carry out
my threats at once, and appeal to the
passengers for help

And what if I wait to punish you for
your cursed impudence till we get on
shore

I will have you placed in arrest,' she
answered, ' as a suspected forger. Don't
think I have no proofs against you.
Farrell has them all ready, in case of need.
If you begin to bluster and bully in your
old fashion, you will find that I have the
upper hand, and I mean to keep it.
Remember that in another week we shall
be in harbour, and I shall only have to
summon the police to see you carried back
to England in irons.'

That's a nice thing for a wife to say to
her husband,' commenced Harland angrily,

and then changing his tone, he continued,
Come, you would never go as far as that,
I'm sure. Whatever you may think of
me now, you loved me once, and for the
sake of the old times, let us try and talk
reasonably together. Tell me what it
is you want, and if I can agree to your
terms, I will.'

I am your wife,' replied Iris firmly,
and I want my rights — that is, I want a
home kept over my head, and for you to
remember that you are not free to court or
marry another woman.'

But yet you do not care for me yourself,'
he said.

Care for you ! ' she echoed scornfully.
How can I care for a man who has shown
himself to me in so utterly contemptible a
light ? No, Godfrey Harland, I hate and
despise you. But you shall not ignore
what you are to me for all that. I will
not permit you to commit a crime at my
expense.'

Oh, nonsense ! ' he said, in his old nonchalant

manner. ' A crime is no crime
unless it injures somebody. Now what is
the use of you and me keeping together ?
You say you hate me, and although I
would not be so rude as to use so harsh
a term as that to a lady, I certainly must
confess that I am somewhat tired of you.
Now, look here. Iris,' he continued,
drawing closer to her, ' why shouldn't we
play into each other's hands '^. You can't
have any real jealousy of me, and I daresay
(if the truth were told) there is some
nice young fellow in the background whom
you like much better. Promise to leave
me alone, and I'll make it worth your
while to do so. Let me settle you at
Canterbury, and go on quietly with the
Vansittartss to their destination, and carry
out my little plans with regard to Grace,
and I'll engage to remit you a certain sum
quarterly, as long as you leave us in peace.
And then you know, my dear, my misconduct
will set you free — morally, if not
legally — to marry again yourself, and we

shall both be much the better for the
arrangement ; and in a new country, no
one need ever be the wiser. What do you
say ? Is it a bargain ? '

But Iris's hazel eyes, wide open with
horror and indignation, flashed fire on him.

'Oh, Godfrey,' she cried, 'you must bea
devil in the shape of man, to tempt me
to such a crime ! — to bargain with me for
so much a quarter, not only to keep silence
with regard to yourself, but to follow your
example, and sin too. Do you know what
it means ? Do you know that you will bea
bigamist, — a criminal within the pale of
the law, — and liable to transportation for
your offence. Oh, isn't the other terrible
misdeed bad enough, without your wishing
to add to it like this ? '

Don't whine, or preach he said impatiently.
* You know how I hate sermonising
and cant. Will you do it, or
will you not ? That is all I want to hear
from you.'

No, no, no, a thousand times over.

Do you think I am as degraded as yourself
? I will not do it, nor countenance it.
I will go straight to the Vansittartss (as I
ought to have done at the beginning) and
warn them against you, as a bad man and
a deceiver. You shall not ruin another
woman's life as you have done mine.'

I defy you to do it ! ' exclaimed Har-land,
grasping her tightly by the arm ; ' I
will throw you into the water first ! '

Leave go of me at once, or I will call
for help. Ah ! you do not frighten me
with your threats, you coward ! You can
wage war with helpless women, but your
face would tell a different tale if a man
rushed in to my assistance. And I tell
you that I am determined. I have made
up my mind. If you do not abandon at
once and for ever your infamous intentions
with respect to Miss Vansittart, I shall
inform her parents who I am, and why I
am here. But I will give you one more
chance. I cannot believe but that, when
you have time to think more calmly, you

will see the utter folly of the course you
are pursuing. So I will say nothing until
tomorrow. Give me your written word
by then, that you will live as you should
do for the future, and my tongue is silent.
And now you know my mind, and can
make up your own.'

And with that Iris stepped out from
the house amidships, and left Godfrey
Harland by himself.

THE RENDEZVOUS.

E did not stir for some moments
rg^ % after she had disappeared. He
&<S^ was fearful lest the sailors on
deck should suspect there was some connection
between them if they quitted the
place together. And his reflections as he
paced to and fro the berth, were anything
but pleasant ones.

How dared she follow me ?' he soliloquised,
with rage and anger gnawing at
his heart. ' She has blighted my last

chance, frustrated all my plans, and now
defies me to save myself! Farrell, of
course, has blurted out all that infernal
business to her. I suppose that was the
revenge he threatened me with the other
night ; and she will use it as a weapon
against me. But I will put a stop to her
tongue, curse her ! She shall not stand
in my way to fortune.'

He thought he might venture to leave
the spare galley by this time, and making
his way over the wet deck, he walked
straight aft to the saloon, and throwing
himself on one of the lounges, called
the steward to fetch him a .


He had never felt so upset in his life
as he did from this annoying interview.
It had half maddened him! What on
earth could he do or say to stop the
chattering tongue of a jealous and spiteful
woman ? It would be as easy, he
thought, to dam the falls of Niagara!
And it took more than one brandy to

quiet in any degree his shaken and agitated
nerves.

Then he rose and walked, trembling
in every limb, to his own cabin, and,
locking the door, threw himself down
upon the bed and tried to think what
was best to be done. One thing only
seemed clear to him. If he allowed Iris
and Farrell to have their own way, he
stood a very good chance of ending his
days as a felon ! She had said that
Farrell held the proofs of his forgery !
What proofs ? Where had he procured
them ? What did he retain them for,
except to work his ruin ? //^ he could
only get rid of those proofs, he would
be safe. But then there was Iris — his
bane and his curse — always ready to reappear
and spoil his chances with Grace
Vansittart. She was too virtuous to consent
to go halves with him in obtaining
their mutual freedom; but she would not
prove too virtuous, he would bet, to
drag him from the quiet and respectable

life he intended to lead, back to poverty,
and shame, and public disgrace ! What
if he could get rid of them both together!
If he could only induce Iris, on the
pretence of following her wishes in the
matter, to bring him the proofs that
Farrell held against him, by night, and
then —

But no,' he thought, with a visible
shudder, as his hands twitched nervously,
I couldn't — / couldst ! I am in her
devilish clutches, — actually in her power,
and there is no way out of it but one.
I must give up Grace, and all my future
prospects, and return to my old life of
hopeless impecuniosity. Oh, it is too
hard ! Why on earth was I such a fool
as to let her discover my intentions ? I
ought to be hung, for such a piece of
senseless imbecility.'

Here he lay for some time in silence,
thinking deeply. After a while, a cold,
cruel smile crept over his hard features,
as though his perplexity were solved.

Of course, the surgery. Nothing can
be easier; and I'll have those proofs, if
nothing else. I'll send Iris a model letter,
asking her to meet me to-night in the
spare galley, to settle what is best to be
done in the matter ; and if I can persuade
her to bring the proofs with her, Til take
good care she doesn't take them back
again. I'll put one witness against me
out of the way, at all events, until I have
determined what to do with the other.'

After this fashion Godfrey Harland
talked to himself, whilst locked up in
his berth ; and by the time the dinner-bell
rang, he felt too nervous and excited
to trust himself to join the other passengers.


It was a bleak, cold evening. The sky
was blue, and spangled with bright stars,
and every now and then the moon shot
forth white darts of light ; but they were
frequently obscured by heavy squalls
which covered the heavens, whilst they
lasted, with a heavy drapery.

In the rare intervals, the white sails
and masts of the Pandora stood out in
bold relief against the sky, and the crested
swells were lit up with rays of silver. The
ultra-marine blue above, with its thousands
of little lamps, contrasted strangely with
the sage-green waters ; and a wicked-looking
cloud that was rising astern
served as a most becoming background
for the sea and air.

The deck was cast well in shadow
when the figure of a man, who had been
standing about for some time in feverish
suspense, emerged from the shade of the
companion-ladder, and stole towards the
surgery door, which was between the
long saloon passage and the berth of the
second officer. Glancing around more
than once to make sure that no one
was at hand, he pushed back the lock
with his clasp-knife, and with a sudden
wrench turning the handle, disappeared
from sight, and closed the door behind
him.

The saloon passengers, as they finished
their dinner, rose from table and donned
their overcoats and wraps, with a view
to going on deck.

Now, that's a bargain, doctor!' laughed
Alice Leyton ; ' six pairs of gloves if the
Pandora gets in under three days ? '

'Yes, Miss Leyton ; and from the verj/-
best glover in Canterbury.'

I take sixes, remember, and never
wear less than eight buttons,' said Alice.

Don't count your buttons before we
reach the goal,' replied the doctor merrily.
I think (luckily for me) they are still
looming a long way in the distance ; for
if we do not get a strong breeze by tomorrow
at latest, Mr Coffin tells me we
cannot possibly drop anchor till Sunday.
But if you will excuse me, I will run and
get the paregoric lozenges I promised
Miss Vere.'

And Dr Lennard disappeared into the
passage.

Very strange,' he muttered to himself,

as he turned the handle of the surgery
door. * I thought I locked it before
dinner. Hullo! hullo! Who's that?
What are you doing in here ? '

It's all right, doctor,' replied Harland,
confronting him with rather a confused
countenance ; ' don't be alarmed. I was
sitting smoking on the weather-board,
and dropped the end of my cigar inside,
so I came after it, in case it might be
dangerous.'

There's nothing to catch alight here,
though, of course, you should be cautious,'
said the doctor, half suspiciously. * By
the way, did you find the door open ? '

Well, rather! rejoined Harland. ' You
don't suspect me of keeping skeleton
keys, do you ? '

I don't suspect anything, but I certainly
thought that I had locked the door
when I put the key in my pocket. I
must be more careful in future, or someone
will be after my case of medical
port.'

By Jove ! yes,' acquiesced Harland.
If any of these thirsty dogs of shell-backs
were knocking about, they'd make
short work of a dozen of port — wouldn't
they? The brutes drink like fishes.'

They're not the only people aboard
that know how to drink,' answered the
doctor dryly, with a meaning glance at
his companion, who laughed awkwardly,
and turned away to the lee side of the
vessel.

At the same moment. Iris was reading
over a letter which she had received from
her husband, to Maggie and Farrell.

Don't you go,' pleaded the former ;
don't go nigh him, my pretty. He only
wants to try and talk you over ; and you're
so soft-hearted, I'm not sure but what
you'll give in to him.'

Surely you will not keep this appoint-men,
Miss Douglas,' urged Farrell. ' We
have only a few more days to spend onboard
now, and during that time, you
should avoid him as much as possible.

He only wants, as Maggie says, to persuade
you to alter your mind. Write and
tell him that it is made up, and you
have nothing more to say to him on the
subject.'

You both seem to think me terribly
weak,' said Iris, almost irritably. ' Do
you suppose I can't take care of myself .-^
I told Mr Harland my intentions plainly,
and he quite understands there is no alternative.
All he wishes is to see me again,
in order that we may arrange together
how best to carry out our plans. I think
that is only reasonable. Did you listen
attentively to his letter ? Let me read it
to you again : —

My dear Iris, — I have been thinking
deeply over what you said to me this
afternoon, and I see you are right, and
I must have been crazy to dream of doing
anything else. Can you forgive me .^
If you can, it will help me to do my
duty for the future, and I promise you

VOL. III. G

to act on the square. You say that
Farrell holds proofs against me. Were
I convinced of this, it would materially
alter my plans for our well-doing. Are
they accessible ? I should much like to
see them. Try and persuade him to let
you have the custody of them for half-an-hour.
I pledge you my word of honour
not even to touch them. How could I
do anything repugnant to your wishes,
in so public a place as the spare galley ?
If you will meet me there to-night at ten
o'clock, when the passengers are at supper,
I will tell you what arrangements I have
made for you on landing. It is possible
we may be at Canterbury sooner than
you anticipate, and it is best (in order
to save gossip) that we should not leave
the ship together. Do not fail to meet
me to-night. — Yours, G. H.'

*Cant! Humbug!' exclaimed Farrell.
^ There is some deep scheme hidden under
this pretended repentance. You will bea

fool, Miss Douglas, if you comply with
his request.'

You are both against him,' said Iris.
I know he has a hundred faults, but
he may be sincere in wishing to amend
his life. And / am not the one who
should refuse to help him.'

And as she spoke, she twisted up the
note, and held it in the flame of the
swinging lamp.

What are you doing ? ' cried Farrell
quickly, as he attempted to rescue it.

Burning my letter. Have I not a
right to burn it ?' returned Iris, in a tone
of annoyance.

Certainly ; but I do not consider it a
judicious act. It is evidence against him.
Chicanery is written in every line. What
should he want to see those proofs for,
except to destroy them ? '

You all suspect him. Because he has
sinned once, he can do nothing right in
your eyes now,' said Iris impetuously.
And I suppose, Mr Farrell, if I asked

you for those proofs, you would refuse to
trust them to me ? '

I should, indeed ; for you' sake more
than my own. It is of little consequence
to me whether he suffers the penalty of
the law or not ; but it is of the utmost
importance that he should be kept in fear
of it, to protect your interests.'

Then I shall go and see him without
them, and tell him that you have no pity
replied Iris, as she rose and went to her
own cabin.

Will she really go ? ' demanded Farrell
of Maggie.

I'm much afraid she will, unless I stop
her. Ah, Will, she'll be a deal too good
to him. Them few soft words have melted
her like fire does snow. Sometimes I
think I'll tell her all, and let her see
what a double-dyed rascal he is ; but
then I couldn't bear for her to look
coldly on vte. Lord ! how the wind
howls. It's an awful night, ain't it ? A
regular storm. And what's that ? The

mistress crying' ! Ah, I must go to her,
poor dear. This business has upset her
altogether.'

Try all you can to persuade her not
to see that man again, Maggie.'

I'll do my best ; but if she's set on
it, she will. But, there, let me go to
her. I've a notion in my head I'll find
a way out of it yet.'

She rushed to Iris, and found her (as
she had anticipated) in hysterics. The
excitement had overtaxed her strength,
and Harland's apparently repentant note
had finished the work. She sobbed and
cried for a long time without control, and
then was so exhausted she was obliged to
lie down in her berth.

Now ! you're better,' said Maggie
soothingly ; ' and if you'll promise to lie
quiet till I come back, I'll run and get
something for you from the doctor.'

Oh, no, Maggie ! I must get up. It
is time to go and meet Godfrey,' replied
Iris, trying to rise.

I am sure it isn't. It has only just
gone nine. You have a whole hour yet.
Rest a bit, my pretty, and let me get you
some camphor, or you won't be able to
speak to him.'

Iris closed her eyes in acquiescence,
and Maggie ran off in search of Dr
Lennard.

Doctor,' she said persuasively, * my
lady, Miss Douglas, has had the high-strikes,
and I want to get her to sleep
at once. Will you mix her a sleeping-draught,
in some camphor, that she can
take straight off.'

After a few questions, the doctor compounded
the soporific, and Maggie took
it back to the cabin and made Iris
swallow it. In a few minutes her sobs
relaxed, her eyes closed, her hands folded
themselves over her heaving breast, and
she was asleep. Maggie drew the blankets
closely over her, and sat by her side until
she was fairly off.'

That's right,' she thought, chuckling

to herself ; ' that was very neatly done.
She'll sleep sound, poor dear, till it's ten
o'clock tomorrow morning. And now,
shall I tell Will what I am going to do ?
I think not. He'll want to interfere, and
spoil everything. I can manage matters
much better by myself. I will go and
meet Mr Harland, and find out what he
really means to do ; and I can pretend
I've got the papers, until he's told me
all his mind, and then I can discover
I've left 'em below stairs after all. But
I mustn't let him guess as it's me until
I know his plans for the mistress, or he
won't tell 'em. Let me see ! How can
I disguise myself?' looking round the
cabin. ' Ah 1 there's my pretty's cloak,
and the black worsted wrap ; and I can
put a veil over my face, and say I was
afraid of being recognised by the saloon
people. And now I must hoodwink
Will. Lord, what a trouble all these
men are! You can't do nothing with
them without lying all round.'

A moment later she was in the general
cabin.

She's gone off nicely,' she whispered
to Farrell. ' I got a draught for her from
the doctor, mixed up in camphor, and
she took it like a lamb and was asleep
in five minutes. And I guess Mr
Harland will have to wait a lone time
in the spare galley before he bullies her
to-night, poor dear.'

Well, you aix a clever girl,' said
Will admiringly ; ' you'll be the smartest
wife for miles round when you and I
are married, Maggie.'

Well, mind you make me a husband
to match, then,' she answered, laughing.
But I'll go to bed myself now, Will,
for I'm regular tired. I think the wind
makes one sleepy.'

All right ! I'm just off for a game
at cards with Perry. Good-night, my
dear ! '

Maggie whisked away, with the cloak
and shawl thrown over her arm, and at

ten o'clock she issued from the steerage
so completely enveloped in them that
no casual observer could have said if it
were she or her mistress. The night
was pitchy dark. Nothing could be
seen all round the vessel but the boiling
foam, flashing with sparkling diamonds
of spray, that rushed in seething suds
from the vessel's bows. To watch the
Pandora at this moment from her topgallant
forecastle was a glorious sight.
The bank of snowy lather that was dispersed
on either side to make way for
her keel, tossed and rolled over in impotent
fury ; the plunges of the ship's
cutwater, that often dipped her harpoon-shaped
martingale deep into the sea ;
the angry waves that dashed against
her figurehead, and the breakers that
leaped fitfully against her sides, as if
they panted to drag her down to the
unfathomable deep, composed a scene of
majesty and awe. The sailors knew that
they might expect a stiff gale. Mr

Coffin had stowed all her smaller sails,
shortening her down to topsails, and
clad in his long weather coat awaited
the coming storm.

The freshening wind hummed in the
rigging, and made the loose ropes beat
against the backstairs. With a long
stretch the Pandora careened over on
her side, and set off at a swinging pace
on her course.

The sailors on watch, considering they
had done enough work for that evening,
and knowing there would be plenty for
them by-and-by, had turned into the
forecastle to put on their oilskins. Only
the ' wheel ' and the ' look-out ' were on
deck, and the darkness made even them
invisible, as Maggie Greet, disguised
in Iris's long mantle, entered the open
door on the leeward of the spare galley.
Godfrey Harland was already there, and
moved a few steps towards her.

I felt sure you would see the wisdom
of meeting me,' he said ; * we will soon

set this matter right now. Come from
the open door and stand nearer this
way ; there will be the less chance of
what we say to each other being overheard.'


THE MURDER.

AGGIE did as he desired her,
in silence, and the two stood
close together in the seclusion
of the spare galley. The wind roared
and howled outside, and lashed the waves
into a murderous fury against the proud
ship that dared to plough her way through
them, but Harland spoke in low, incisive
tones, and every word he uttered was
audible to his companion.

I have been thinking over what you
said to me this morning,' he commenced,
and I felt it was quite necessary we

should see each other again. The fact
is, you took me so completely aback by
your unexpected appearance and your
vehement accusations, that I really did
not know what to say to you. But you
are utterly mistaken in thinking I have
any real intention to marry Miss Vansittart.
How can I have, when I am
married to you ? The thing is too silly
to be refuted. You say you overheard
me talking a lot of nonsense to her last
night. I acknowledge I did. The girl
has taken an inordinate fancy for me,
and I don't quite see my way out of it ;
and so — well you know what we men
are, — bad hats, the very best of us, when
there is no one by to keep us straight,
but I never meant anything serious by
it, upon my word of honour. Don't you
believe me ? '

Yes,' replied Maggie, in the lowest of
whispers.

You needn't be in the least afraid of
our being overheard. It would take a

speaking - trumpet to make one's self
understood through this gale. However,
what I want to explain to you, Iris, is,
that my worst fault has been in concealing
the fact of your existence from
the Vansittartss. He made it a proviso
that his agent should be an unmarried
man, and as I did not intend to take
you out with me, 1 thought there was
no harm in holding my tongue on the
subject, at all events until I had made
myself indispensable to him. And the
deception has entangled me in a dilemma,
as deceptions generally do. But the idea
of my marrying Miss Vansittart is too
utterly ridiculous. I have let her talk
as she pleased about it, and I have
chaffed " her back in return, but she
knows, as well as I do, that it can never
be. Do you understand ? '

'Yes,' repeated Maggie, in the same tone.

'Well, as that affair is settled, I'll tell
you what I think will be best to do for
both of us. I can't afford to give up

this appointment (it's six hundred a year,
and will be raised by-and-by), and I
should not be able to support you if I
did. So you must let me settle you
quietly at Canterbury in some respectable
boarding - house, where you will have
society, and I will send you remittances
monthly until it is safe for you to join
me again. It won't be long first. Of
course, since you are in the country, it
will be to my advantage to have you
with me, and I shall seize the very first
opportunity to confess the truth to Mr
Vansittart, and ask his pardon for not
having informed him of my marriage
from the first. I don't think he will be
hard upon me, especially as he sees his
daughter has taken a fancy to me, and
is anxious to put a stop to it. For, of
course, I should never have been a
suitable match for her, even if I had
been free. He will require money with
any suitor for her hand. Are you quite
satisfied now ? '

Again Maggie answered only by a
monosyllable, and her reticence aroused
Harland's suspicions.

What the deuce is the matter with
you, that you can't speak ? ' he said, irritably.
* Are you trying some game on
me ? I warn you not, for I won't stand
it. Now, look here. I can't do as I have
told you, unless I feel that I am free from
that brute Farrell. It's of no use my trying
to make a position for myself in a
new world, if he has the power to come
forward whenever it pleases him, and denounce
me as a criminal. You say he
holds certain written proofs against me.
Is this really the case ? Have you spoken
to him about them .^ Have you got them
with you } '

Yes,' she said again.

Let me see them,' replied Harland
quickly ; and as he spoke he struck a
match against the heel of his boot, and
held it on a level with her face.

The sickly blue flame flared up for a

moment, and revealed the features of
Maoforie Greet.

Maggie I by all that's holy ! ' exclaimed
Harland, starting backwards. ' What do
you mean by playing this trick upon me ?
Why was I not told of this before ? '

Told of what before ? '

That you were on board ship, in company
with my wife. That I had been
tracked by a couple of you — confound you
both ! '

Oh, yes ! I daresay you'd like to confound
us both, very much. You've tried
your best to do it already, Mr Harland,
but you ain't clever enough. That's where
the fault lies, you see ! ' cried Maggie unabashed.
' And now, what may you have
to say to Mrs Harland, as you can't say
to me 1 '

Be quiet, you baggage ! ' returned
Godfrey angrily, ' and go back to your
berth. My business lies with your mistress,
and not with you.'

Oh ! well, then, you won't see my mis-vol.

III. H

tress, and so you may do as best you can
without her. She has friends on board
as won't consent to her being handed over,
without protection, to the clutches of a
brute Hke you ; and so if you have any
message for her, you can send it through
me.'

'Go to the d — 1!' cried Harland, turning
on his heel. ' I shall not stay here a
minute longer.'

Not even to get them papers ? '
What do you know about the papers ? '
As much as yourself, I fancy, and
perhaps more. You asked me just now if
I'd got 'em, and I said ''yes;'' but if
they're no use to you, I may as well carry
them back again.'

From whom did you get them ? ' demanded
Harland, retracing his steps.
From that brute Farrell ? '

Don't you call better men than yourself
names,' retorted Maggie sharply. *Farrell's
worth fifty of you, any day. Yes, I
did get them from him. Who else .^ '

Your mistress showed you my letter,
then ? '

Yes, she did, and a pack of lies it was,
into the bargain.'

Take care how you insult me ! ' cried
Harland.

Look here, Godfrey Harland,' said
Maggie, ' don't you try any nonsense on
me, for I'll soon bring you to your marrowbones.
Will Farrell's papers is 77iy
papers. Do you understand now? He
is going to marry me as soon as we
land in New Zealand, and there'll be two
against you then, instead of one. What
do you say to that ? '

He's welcome to my leavings : they're
good enough for him,' returned the man
ironically.

Maggie's hot blood rose to fever heat.

'Oh, you blackguard, — you black-hearted
villain ! ' she exclaimed. * This is the reward
a woman gets for letting herself be
trampled on by men. You know I was
innocent enough when I first came to you.

I was a poor, ignorant, country girl, as
hardly knew right from wrong, and you
left your sweet young wife, who'd never
done you an unkindness, to stoop to
teach me how to sin. Lord forgive me ! '
cried poor Maggie, with a choking sob in
her throat, 'for I've never forgiven myself.
Many and many's the time I'd have runaway
and drowned myself, for I didn't
feel fit to live, except for he7\ But she
wanted me, and I hadn't the heart to leave
her alone with you. / knew how cruel
and wicked you could be, when the first
fancy had died out of you, and that you
weren't fit to have the care of any woman.
Oh, how cruel and false you have been
to her, and made me be too ! Oh, my
poor mistress! If I could die to make
her happy, I would. But nobody can be
happy as has to do with you!

'You're pleased to be complimentary,'
sneered Harland.

I speak the truth, master, and you
know it. You know you've been her ruin;

as well as mine. I'm only a poor girl, and
don't signify perhaps so much. But hers so
delicate and high-bred — such a lady as she
is, from head to foot. You ought to be
hung for what you've done to her. Do
you think / believe all your palaver about
not marrying Miss Vansittart ? Not I.
She might have, poor dear, but / know
you better. It was all put on to deceive
her, and get hold of the papers. You'd
have settled her in Canterbury, yes ! and
then she'd never have heard of you, or
your money, again. Don't I know the liar
you are ? '

Have you got those papers ? ' demanded
Harland fiercely. ' I suppose they're for
sale. What's their price ? '

Oh, yes, they're for sale — never
fear ; but I doubt if you can buy
them. They're going in exchange for
my mistress being acknowledged openly
as your wife, and placed in her proper
position, and treated with kindness for
the future, and then, perhaps. Will and

I may talk about letting you have the
papers.'

D — n Will and you ! ' exclaimed Har-land,
as his eyes gleamed with hate and
fury on her.

Will and I are much more likely todo
that for you, Mr Harland. We have
neither of us much cause to love you. You
have ruined both our lives, — robbed us of
our good names, and left a nasty stain
behind you which nothing will wipe out.
I don't think we owe you much — unless
it is revenge. And we'll have our revenge,
never fear, unless you buy us off. Do your
duty by the mistress, plain and aboveboard,
or we'll take good care you don't
work mischief to any one else. It wouldn't
take many words from us to get you locked
up, and that's what we mean to do, both
on us, as sure as your name's Godfrey
Harland.'

You do — do you ? ' replied Harland,
with clenched hands and teeth.

He had made up his mind how to act

whilst she was speaking. The dose he
had obtained for Iris would do just as
well for Maggie, and he pressed closer
to her with it in his hand. She, foreseeing
meditated violence in his action,
raised her fist and struck him in the face,
then turned and rushed out of the spare
galley on to the darkness of the quarterdeck.
It was still deserted, the passengers
were in the saloon, the seamen in the
forecastle, and the howling of the gale
permitted only itself to be heard. As
Maggie tried to stem her way against the
driving wind, which seemed to push her
backwards with every step, she stumbled
against the steam-winch, and in another
moment Harland had caught and held
her from behind.

A murderous hand was placed upon her
throat, a handkerchief, which exhaled a
sickly, sweet, intoxicating fume, was pressed
tightly over her mouth and nostrils, and
her body was held by his against the main
rail. She could not move ; she could not

scream ; she could not even think. Fora
moment she struggled feebly, and
clutched with her dying grasp at Har-land's
garment. But the next, all things
seemed growing dim — the memory of
her wrongs — the fear for her safety —
even the knowledge of the presence of
Death faded from her as the fumes of the
chloroform mounted to her very brain,
and her breath came in gasps, which grew
shorter and shorter until they ceased altogether.
Then her body was lifted
quickly in strong arms from the deck,
and thrust over the mainsail, and it hit
the bumpkin with a dull thud, as it dropped
silently into the seething deep.

It plunged beneath the surface and rose
again, and the Pandora passed ahead of
it, scattering banks of white foam in her
wake, like a sea shroud for the dying.
For in that moment Majestie Greet's
senses had returned to her. She felt the
icy water flowing over her head, and into
her ears and mouth.

Oh, what was this ? What had happened
to her ?

Is it some awful dream ? Where am
I ? Who put me here ? Oh, Will, Will,
save me ! ' But the wind roared to prevent
all chance of her feeble cry being
overheard, and the merciless waves flowed
over her head again, and sucked her body
down. 'Oh, to die like this! My
poor mistress ! God in heaven ! forgive
me.'

Again her body disappeared, and after
an agonising struggle for life, poor
Maggie rose once more, feebly murmuring,
' I forgive — forgive,' and then sunk
beneath the waves for ever.

Meanwhile, Godfrey Harland leant
against the mainsail, sick and dizzy with
horror at the deed which he had done,
and staring with blank eyes at the boiling
sea, in which the girl he had ruined had
disappeared. The handkerchief he had
pressed against her nose and mouth,

reeking with chloroform, was still held in
his hand. In his confusion, he did not
even know that it was there. He had
never meant to go so far as this. He
had prepared the chloroform to use incase
of his experiencing any trouble in
getting the papers into his possession,
but when he saw Maggie so completely
unconscious, and realised the danger of
being caught in the act of searching her
body, it seemed so much easier to throw
her overboard, and get rid of her dangerous
tongue and the proofs of his forgery
at the same time. And now it was over,
and there was no help for it. He gazed
at the boiling foam as it dashed past the
vessel, in a vacant manner, as though he
half expected Maggie's face to rise from
it and confront him, Maggie who was
already miles away, drifting without sense
or motion in the under-current of the sea.
And as he gazed, strange to say, Godfrey
Harland did not think of her as he had
seen her last, but as she had been when

they first met — a pretty country girl, all
faith in him and eagerness to obey his
will — and his limbs shook under him ashe
remembered it.

Hullo! Harland ! what are you doing
here ? It's a rough night for musing,'
shouted a voice behind him. ' We're
going to the smoke-room ! Come along
and spin us a yarn ! The ladies have
beat a retreat, and there's not much to
be done below.'

Godfrey Harland turned round to confront
Captain Lovel! and the doctor.

'All right,' he said unsteadily. ' I'll go
with you. It's the beastliest night we've
had for a long time.'

As the three men ensconced themselves
in the smoke-room, and took their
seats, Dr Lennard snuffed the air.

Who's got chloroform } ' he asked curiously.
Lovell looked amused, and Harland
started. ' Why, it's you ! ' continued the
doctor. ' It's on your handkerchief.'

Oh, yes,' he stammered ; ' chloroform,

of course. I've been using It for a toothache.
It generally does me good'

Have you a toothache now ? '

No, it's gone ! ' replied Harland, with
an unquiet look round the cabin.

Well ! stow your handkerchief away,
for goodness' sake, for it's too strong to
be agreeable. I hate the smell of chloroform.
It recalls unpleasant operations
to me. You must have a sound heart,
to be able to inhale it at that rate. I
should think you must have had enough
to kill two people on that handkerchief.'

And with a ghastly grin, that was intended
for a smile, Harland thrust it deep
into the pocket of his coat.

MISSING.

HE threatening aspect which the
heavens had assumed, turned
out to be nothing more after
all than a violent squall, which caused
the Pandora to fly along at her topmost
speed for a few hours, and then died away
as quickly as it had sprung up, leaving a
calm behind it. The wet sails beat with
loud flaps against the masts in time to
the roll of the vessel ; the sheets and
tacks were limp and slack ; and the
weather shrouds, which had made their
lanyards and dead-eyes creak and groan,
could be shaken with the hand — whilst

the fine old ship, which had behaved so
gallantly under her widespread canvas,
lay like a log on the ocean, and refused
even to steer. The wheel was jammed
hard down, sheets flattened, and everything
done to help her, but it was of no
avail. All the coaxing of her officers
would not induce her to behave like a
lady, and she drifted along idly, with her
nose heading every point except the one
she was wanted to follow. The Pandora
was a true woman that night — wilful and
headstrong, and refusing all assistance.
She declined to answer her rudder — even
the head-sails had no control over her —
and her mizen had to be hauled up,
since it only made her the more perverse
and cantankerous. When all the sailors'
efforts had failed, and they had given her
up — at all events, for the present — as a
hopeless job, a massive sheet of cloud
appeared in the eastward. It was like
its predecessor in shape and consistency,
but of a brighter shade — a greyish, half-mourning

hue — and as it crept slowly towards
them, like the mighty simoom of
the Desert of Sahara, it shut out the surrounding
scene from view. The moon
and stars that were reflected on the still
waters were soon enveloped in its dingy
mantle, and before daybreak, the Pandora
was hidden by a raw, penetrating mist.

It was a wintry fog, that carried on
its breath the seeds of sickness and mortality
; that made itself felt through the
thickest garments, and attacked the joints
with stiffness and cramp ; that made the
night humid, close, and unhealthy, and
the day dark and cheerless ; that compelled
the stewards to screw down the
port-holes, lest the vapour should fill their
only refuge with its disease - inspiring
breath ; that mildewed the dry provisions,
and rotted the vegetables that
hung in the long-boat, and transformed
the warm grasp of the friend of your
bosom into a cold and clammy touch.
When the passengers essayed to make

their toilets, they had to Hight their
lamps, and discovered that their glasses
were dim, and their clothes damp with
moisture ; nor could the pleasures of the
breakfast table send a glow through their
benumbed bodies, nor restore the geniality
of their tempers.

Captain Robarts, who has not as yet
figured prominently in this history, simply
because he never sought the society of
his passengers, or concerned himself about
their comforts, was that day more bearish
and blunt (if possible) than usual. He
was anxious about their safety. He was
not quite certain as to their exact position
on the chart, and he saw that he would
have to work the vessel out by dead
reckoning, instead of the surer method
of ascertaining his longitude by the
meridian altitude. He felt sure that
he was not many miles from the coast,
but if he had been able to shoot the sun,
his mind would have been more at ease,
and he would not have retreated to his

private cabin, and, after irritably slamming
the door, have solaced himself with
so many ' nips ' from a mysterious flask
which he kept in a cupboard at the
head of his bunk.

A gentleman from the second cabin
wishes to speak to you, sir,' said the
steward, after knocking several times for
admittance.

Captain Robarts opened his cabin door
and beckoned the man to enter, much
to the disappointment of several curious
listeners, who had hoped to hear all
about the wants of the gentleman from
the second cabin. A few minutes afterwards
the chief steward left the saloon,
and returned, accompanied by Will Farrell,
who was ushered in to the presence
of the captain.

Morning, sir,' said Captain Robarts.
I understand you have a communication
to make to me. I am ready to hear it.'

Will Farrell stood before him, white
and trembling, hardly knowing how to

VOL. III. I

begin. At last he stammered out that
it was ' very serious.'

Well, well, sir ! I can't afford to waste
my time over you. Let me know it, if you
please,' replied the captain impatiently.

One of the steerage passengers — a
woman — is missing, sir! said Farrell, in a
trembling voice.

Indeed ; and how did you find it out 1 '

She — she — was my friend, sir — we
were to have married each other, and she
was quite safe last night at nine o'clock,
because I spoke to her, and bid her 'goodnight."
But this morning she's missing.
No one's seen her, and the steward says
she didn't sleep in her bunk last night.'

And why did not the steward, whose
duty it is, inform me of this himself ? '

This question took poor Will Farrell
completely aback. He had come in his
grief and trouble to consult the chief person
in the ship, but the terrible news he
conveyed did not seem to move the hard,
unfeeling heart of the man before him one

whit. The steerage steward was an uncouth
being, working his passage out to
New Zealand, and Farrell had begged
leave of him to go and inform the skipper
that Maggie Greet was missing. But he
had not expected so cold a reception.
He had thought the captain would immediately
employ every available means to discover
the whereabouts of his passenger, —
that the ship would be thoroughly searched
from hold to galley, and that if the mystery
were not solved by it, a meeting
would be at once convened to inquire into
the cause of Maggie's disappearance.

When Captain Robarts saw that Farrell
preserved silence, he continued, —

What is the woman's name } '

Greet, sir, Maggie Greet,' was the
answer, given in a choking voice.

Very good ! That'll do ! The matter
shall be investigated,' and rising from his
seat, the old sea-dog opened the door, and
showed his visitor the way out.

It was not long after that Mr Sparkes

was sent for, and ordered to report, as
quickly as possible, on the particulars of
the case, and enter a full description of the
woman, with that of her friends, and when
and where she was last seen, with all etceteras
in his day-book for the benefit of the
skipper, who would have to jot it down in
his official log. That Maggie Greet had
been only a steerage passenger, rendered
her disappearance of far less consequence
than if she had belonged to the saloon ;
still Captain Robarts thought it worth
while to consult Mr Fowler on the subject,
and that worthy was consequently summoned
to a private interview in his cabin.

What is it all about ? ' cried the passengers
en masse, as Sparkes delivered
the skipper's message.

Only a steerage female passenger
missing,' replied the young officer airily.

Only,' repeated Mr Fowler ; ' only the
chance of death for somebody.'

But does nobody know where she has
gone.-^' asked Alice Leyton stupidly.

No ! or we shouldn't be looking for
her. Stumbled overboard, perhaps, in the
squall. It was a roughish night. Mr
Fowler, the captain would like to speak to
you about it at once.'

All right ; I will go to him,' and he went.

The captain had soon repeated all he had
been able to gather of the case.

You'd better leave it to me,' said
Fowler; 'it's either an accident or foul
play, and in either case I'll keep my eyes
open, and see what I can make of it.'

There's no suspicion whatever of foul
play. The young man Farrell, who was
to marry the girl, says she was safe at
nine last night, and left him to go to her
berth, but has not been seen since.'

'And how does he account for himself
since that time ? '

Why, you don't suspect hint, surely,'
said the captain ; ' he is simply overcome
with grief.'

Yes ; I have seen them overcome
with grief before. Never mind, captain.

I have my suspicions of more than one
person aboard this vessel, and perhaps
this Httle accident may be the wind-up of
it all. I'll make things clear, if possible,
before we touch port.'

How will you set to work ?'

By putting two and two together.
This young woman was rather strange in
her ways, you know, captain.'

Was she ? I didn't know her, even by
sight'

There were two of them, and they
were always with this man Farrell, and
always wrapped up in shawls, so that
their faces couldn't be seen. They never
came out till the evening, either, and
then they'd slink away towards the forecastle.
All they seemed to wish was to
avoid their fellow-creatures.'

Perhaps it was some family trouble.'

Perhaps it was, and it'll prove a case
o{ felo de se. Though she was as sturdy
a damsel (this one that's missing) as ever
I saw, and not at all like a romantic

suicide. But one never knows what
they'll do, if there's a man in the case.
I remember an affair something like this
one taking place in the Wangarrie, bound
for Auckland. There was a lady of title
on board, who had been confined to her
berth for some days. Well, the stewardess
had not left her above five minutes
one afternoon when she was gone. She
crawled out of one of the square stern
virindows in her robe de nuit, and dropped
into the briny.'

But this woman could not have gone
out of the ports.'

No, I suppose they're too small in
the 'tween decks. I'll go down there in
the dog-watch, and take a look round.
But she may have jumped overboard during
the squall, and no one have been the
wiser; or she may have h^^n pushed ov^v.'

You can't get the idea that it was intentional
out of your head, Mr Fowler.'

No. sir ; and shan't, either, until I
prove it to have been otherwise. For,

as I said before, I haven't been sleeping
on the voyage, and I have my suspicions.
But I'll clear out now, captain ; I see
you are busy with your chart,' and with
a curt nod, Mr Fowler went about his
business.

Before noon every soul on board the
Pandora had heard and discussed the
terrible news, but all were equally at a
loss to account for it. Some agreed with
Mr Fowler that poor Maggie must have
been a little insane. Others suspected
(though they dared not say so) the unfortunate
Farrell, who (with Iris Harland)
was overcome with grief for Maggie's
loss, and believed his tears were only
shed to avert suspicion from himself.
Godfrey Harland was forced to mix with
his fellow passengers, and hear all their
comments on the subject, for he dreaded
doing anything unusual so as to attract
the general notice. He was very active,
therefore, in arguing the point, and suggesting
possible solutions of the mystery,

though he stuck faithfully himself to one
opinion, that if the unhappy girl had had
a lover, he was the person who should
know most about it.

In every part of the vessel the unfortunate
accident was commented on. In
the forecastle, the galley, and the house
amidships ; in the second cabin, the
smoke-room, and on the poop deck it
formed the sole topic of conversation.

The wretched Farrell, with eyes bleared
and swollen from weeping, was bowed
down under a sense of his loss. It was
in vain that Iris implored him to take
courage, to bear his trouble like a man,
to remember how brave poor dear Maggie
was, and how she would have been the
first to condemn his utter prostration of
mind and body. There was a deeper
grief than the loss of his promised wife
underlying his condition. Both his suspicions,
and those of Iris, pointed to
Godfrey Harland, though they feared to
say so, even to each other. Maggie had

purposely sent Iris to sleep, and Farrell remembered
afterwards that she had carried
her mistress's missing cloak and shawl upon
her arm. What had she taken them for,
unless she intended to go on deck, and
why should she go on deck but to meet
Harland, instead of his wife ? The case
seemed clear to both of them, and yet
they were so helpless to take their revenge.
They did not even know where
she had gone to, or if Harland had kept
the appointment he made with his wife.
Farrell would neither eat nor drink. His
dinner and tea were carried away untouched,
while he sat in his berth with
his face buried in his hands, trying to find
some solution to the awful mystery.

As the night watches were set, he was
roused from the stupor into which he had
fallen, by the advent of Mr Fowler, who,
having tapped at his door, entered without
further ceremony. ~

Come, come, Farrell ! ' he commenced
kindly, as he laid his hand upon the young

man's shoulder, * you mustn't give way
like this. Let me send for some liquor
for you. Here, steward ! bring Mr Farrell
a brandy-and-soda,' and when it came he
forced Will to drink it.

It is very kind of you, Mr Fowler, to
take the trouble to come and visit me,' Will
said, as he tried to stop his gasping sobs.
Few have done it, except Miss Douglas.
I daresay you are surprised at my being
so overcome by this loss ; but it was so
sudden — so unexpected — we were so full
of hope and anticipation that — '

Yes, yes, my boy ! I quite understand,'
replied Fowler. ' It was very dreadful —
very dreadful, indeed. But have you any
idea how it happened ? '

Not the slightest — at least, no certainty.
The last time I saw her I was
sitting down here, playing cards with my
friend Perry, and she told me the wind
had rade her sleepy, and she should goto
bed. I wished her good-night, and that
was the last of it.'

She was a steerage passenger, I understand.
How came she to be in the second
cabin ? '

Well, sir, there's a lady here, Miss
Douglas, who was a friend of hers.
Maggie was — well, I don't know why I
should mind saying it — but my poor girl
was in her service in England, and followed
her across the sea, and used to
come in here and look after her sometimes.
Miss Douglas was ill last night,
and Maggie had given her a sleeping
draught and put her to bed.'

Pardon the digression, Mr Farrell, but
what made Miss Douglas ill ?'

Will Farrell's eyes flashed. He would
have blurted out the whole truth concerning
Godfrey Harland to all the ship at
that moment. Only one motive restrained
him — the thought of Iris: But he clenched
his fist as he answered, —

A scoundrel had been talking to her
and upsetting the poor thing. She isn't
strong.'

And this scoundrel — excuse me — is also
an enemy of yours, Mr Farrell ?'

I didn't say so, Mr Fowler.'

No, but I guessed it from the clenching
of your hand as you mentioned him. And
now let me tell you that I strongly suspect
there is foul play somewhere, and I want
you to assist me in clearing it up.'

I suspect it too, sir — more, I believe it,
only I can't give a reason why. But if I
tell you my suspicions, how can you clear
the matter up "^ '

Because my name of Fowler is assumed
for professional purposes only. My real
title is Mark Rendle, of Scotland Yard,
and if things are not all square here, and
you will help me, I will bring the murderer
to justice.'

'I'm your man!' cried Farrell, as he
stretched out his hand.

MR FOWLER.

SUPPOSE you are a detective
? ' continued Farrell, after
a pause.

You are right. I am a private detective,
but no one knows the secret but
Captain Robarts and yourself, and I should
not have confided it to you, except I feel
that, for your own sake, you will keep it
sacred. And now look here, my boy. I
am a man old enough to be your father,
and I have had much experience in these
cases, with which I have been mixed up
all my life. If we are to work together,
you must tell me the truth. You must

hide nothing from me ; and you must give
me your word of honour not to disclose a
single thing that I may say to you

I swear to you that I will not. But
first tell me, Mr Fowler, have you come
out to track any one aboard this vessel ? '

No. I am travelling in the interests
of Messrs Stern & Stales, whose New
Zealand firm has suffered lately from extensive
robberies, instigated, it is believed,
by the employed. The company sent me
over in the Pandora to avoid suspicion.
If I crossed in a steamer, certain business
people, who are always going backwards
and forwards through the Canal to Australia
and New Zealand, might recognise
me, and the news of my arrival would bespread
through the island, and warn the
thieves to be on their guard. Now let me
hear all you have to tell me.'

Will Farrell then related in detail all
that he knew of Horace Cain alias Godfrey
Harland. He gave the whole history of
the forged cheque, and the clever way in

which the suspicion had been cast upon
himself. He told how he had made the
acquaintance of Maggie Greet on board
ship, and learned through her that her
mistress, Miss Douglas, was in reality
Harland's wife, and how Godfrey's open
courtship of Miss Vansittart had induced
Iris to reveal her identity to him, and to
threaten to expose him. And he concluded
with the incident of Harland's
letter to his wife, demanding another interview
at ten o'clock that night in the
spare galley, and entreating her to bring
the proofs that Farrell held against him,
for him to see.

Yes, yes, yes,' said Fowler impatiently ;
that is a dirty story enough, but what has
it to do with Maggie Greet ? I want to
hear about her, and not Mr and Mrs
Harland.'

There was one thing which Farrell had
concealed, and that was the fact of Maggie's
seduction by her master. He felt as if
death itself could not drag it from him, —

as if it would be an insult to the dead
woman he had loved even to allude to it.
But he had a detective to deal with.

She was in their service when in England
— I have mentioned that,' replied
Farrell confusedly ; ' and she was very-much
attached to Miss Douglas. It was
all Maggie's doing that she didn't go to
that interview with her husband. She
meant to do so, but Maggie was afraid of
mischief (she told me so), so she procured
a draught from Dr Lennard, and sent
Miss Douglas straight off to sleep, under
pretence of soothing her hysterical condition.'


'Very good. What did Miss Greet do
then ? '

She came up to my side in the second
cabin, and said, after telling me about Miss
Douglas, 'i'll go to bed now, Will, for I'm
regular tired. I think the wind makes one
sleepy." '

And did she go to bed ? '

How can I tell, sir ? I never saw her

VOL. III. K

again. But the steerage steward says she
didn't;

Now, just think, Mr Farrell. Did you
remark anything strange about her manner
when she bade you good-night ? '

Not at the time, or I should have
spoken of it. But after she was missing,
Miss Douglas told me that her big cloak
that she always wore, and woollen wrap,
were also gone from her cabin, and then
I seemed to remember, like a flash of
lightning, that Maggie had a bundle of
cloaks or something over her arm when
she spoke to me.'

And you think she took them on
purpose ? '

Yes. I think now she took them that
she might look like her mistress, and that
she went on deck to take her place, and
keep that appointment with Godfrey
Harland — curse him!' said Farrell, between
his teeth.

This becomes interesting,' remarked
the detective coolly. ' But now, Mr

Farrell, the question arises, What reason
Miss Greet should have had to wish
to prevent her mistress meeting Mr
Harland ? '

She believed harm would come of it.
He had treated his wife cruelly before.'

She had not a good opinion of her
master, then ? She did not like him ? '

Farrell answered curtly in the negative.

Do you know if Miss Greet had any
cause to mistrust him ? '

She knew he was a brute, and I had
told her about the forgery'

But personally, I mean ? Was there
any feeling like jealousy or revenge at
work in the matter ? '

Not jealousy, certainly,' answered Will.
She was going to marry me — she was
fond of me.'

But formerly — before you met the
girl — had there ever been any love-passages
between her and this Godfrey
Harland?'

Farrell opened his eyes in amazement.

Are you a wizard ? ' he asked.

No, my boy, only a detective! But
that means a close observer of human
nature, and an aptitude for hitting on
the right cause for every effect.'

Will was silent.

Come, now ! I appreciate your reticence,
but this is no time for false
modesty. Doubtless Miss Greet told
you all her secrets. Had she any reason
to wish to be revenged on Harland, or
he for getting rid of her t If you won't
tell me the whole truth, I can do nothing
for you.'

All right, sir ! I will trust you, for it
can't do her any harm now, and it may bethe
means of avenging this cruel loss.
She had good cause to hate him, poor
thing, and he, perhaps, to be afraid of
her ! He had seduced her years before,
when she first went to live in his wife's
service, and Maggie despised him for it,
as well she might, and all the more because
she had grown to be so fond of

Miss Douglas. That's the truth, Mr
Fowler, and I hope you'll keep it sacred.'

You may depend upon me, Farrell,
and it's a valuable clue. We have
arrived at this conclusion, therefore : At
the time that Mr Harland was waiting
to see his wife in the spare galley, she
was asleep in her berth, and Maggie
Greet, with her mistress's cloak and
wraps over her arm, walked out of the
cabin, and was never seen again. She
was a woman also who mistrusted her
master, and had an old grudge against
him, and whose desire for revenge, too,
might prove very awkward to himself.
That is true, is it not ? '

Tt is so, Mr Fowler; and every moment
the case seems to become clearer tome.'


Now, Mr Farrell, do you really hold
the proofs you have mentioned against Mr
Harland .? '

Yes ; I have certain letters written, and
copies of statements made, at the time of

the forgery, which would go very hard'
against him were I to produce them.'

And did you lend them to Miss Greet?'
Oh, dear, no ! She never asked me

for them.'

You are sure you have them still .f^ '

Quite sure ! I was looking at them
this afternoon.'

'Then she could not have taken them,
as desired, for him to see 1

No ; but I think she may have pretended
to have them, sir, just to gain time
to say what she wished to say to him, and
then, when he found he had been deceived,
the brute may have revenged himself on
her by — ah, it is too horrible to think of ! '
cried Farrell, breaking off in another
burst of grief

Or she may have fallen overboard by
accident, don't forget that, Farrell. It
was a terrible night, and the sailors say
they couldn't have heard any cries through
such a squall. It doesn't lessen the loss
to think so, but it is as well not to accuse

anybody of a crime, even in our thoughts,
until we are sure of it.'

That villain is capable of anything
said Farrell doggedly.

'And now about this Miss Douglas,
as you call her ? Is there any one onboard
who knows her to be the wife of
Harland beside yourself? '

I think not, and I have no proofs.
She and Maggie Greet both told me so.
That is all I know.'

That is unfortunate. At present, it
seems to me that all we can do is to
watch and wait. Even if Mrs Harland
comes forward to tell what she knows,
we have no evidence that this Miss Greet
ever went up on deck at all. The case
seems pretty clear to you and me, but
we have to make it clear to others. So
I can do nothing more at present, and
you must not mention a word of our
conversation to any one on board, not
even to Miss Douglas. You must try
and be patient. I know you are burning

to charge Mr Harland with the deed —
you feel so positive he is the guilty party
that you almost wonder I do not clap
on the " darbies " at once. But that is
not our way of working. Supposing he
were able to prove that he was all the
time in the company of friends, we should
at once lose the case, which, if properly
worked, is bound to be cleared up one
way or the other. Do you go with
me .? '

Yes, yes. I suppose it signifies little
either way. Nothing will bring my poor
girl to life again.'

To this sentiment Mr Fowler had naturally
no refutation, and so he withdrew
noiselessly, and left Will Farrell to himself.


Nothing occurred during the following
day of any interest. Iris Harland kept
entirely to the second cabin. She hardly
dared to think of how poor Maggie may
have come by her death, and she dreaded,
with a sickly loathing, the idea of meeting

her husband again. She even shrunk
from seeing Vernon Blythe. She knew
that he would question her so closely,
and sympathise with her so deeply, that
she was afraid of what she might say ordo
before him ; and in answer to more
than one kind note full of affectionate
anxiety, she only begged him to leave
her alone until she had somewhat recovered
from the shock of losing her
poor friend.

So the day passed on, gloomy and uneventful.
The passengers conversed in
undertones on the marvellous disappearance
of Maggie Greet, and the captain
peered anxiously into the fog, which still
forbade him the use of his sextant, and
made him morose and irritable.

The Pandora remained motionless upon
the water. The mist was so dense that
it was impossible to see farther than seven
yards from her side. It was a very perilous
position, for at any moment she might
have been cut down by a steamer. The

patent Aurora forlorn was constantly
sounded, and every few seconds a long,
deep-toned roar, like the lowing of a
monster bull, echoed over the deep, and
denoted the whereabouts of the helpless
mariners and their living freight.

The sea resembled a sheet of boiling
metal, throwing off vast clouds of steam,
which, gathering in huge volumes in the
air, hung suspended until some mighty
wind should arise to drive them away.
The mist clung about the rigging, and
fell thence in large drops like rain. The
decks were sodden and slippery. The
brass-work of the bridge railings, the
binnacles, and the gratings, which usually
shone like gold, had turned to a sickly
greenish hue, and red and orange rust
oozed from the bulwarks and combings
of the masts and stanchions, as if the
vessel had been punctured with a hundred
lancets, and was slowly bleeding to
death.

The wretched cooped-up fowls, standing

upon one leg, with their heads buried
beneath their wings, uttered now and
then a croupy remonstrance ; the ducks
huddled close together to try and keep
out the damp chill, which even their
natural oil could not withstand ; and the
three surviving sheep filled up the intervals
between the lowing of the fog-blast,
with a series of monotonous bleats.

In the forecastle, the seamen * yarned '
together by the dim light of a miserable,
smelling, paraffin - oil lamp, which filled
the place with exudations of black smoke,
which, combined with the strong flavour
of cavendish, and the dank feeling of the
mist, was anything but agreeable.

Now and again the forlorn of the
Pandora would be answered faintly by
a distant echo, which grew louder and
louder, till all on board wondered what
course the stranger could be making, till
suddenly a tall, dark spectre would shoot
rapidly past them in the gloom (like the
celebrated Phantom Ship), making their

hearts beat with excitement, and vanish
again as quickly in the fog, leaving only
the disturbed water as a sign that they
had been passed by an ocean-liner.

And so the day closed, and morning
broke on the same blank prospect. The
officers grumbled, the passengers fretted,
and the shell backs growled and swore like
so many surly bears. Captain Robarts
was still more uneasy than on the previous
day. He had noticed that the
barometer was falling, and he expected
nothing short of a strong gust of wind
to clear the horizon. He spoke to no
one except his officers, and with them
his consultations were short, hurried, and
uncommunicative. Every one on board
was in the dumps. It seemed as if the
disappearance of Maggie Greet had cast
the shadow of death over the vessel and
all concerned in her.

DRIFTING BACK.

UT of every one on board the
Pandora Godfrey Harlan d was
in reality the most nervous and
uncomfortable. He longed to be able to
shut himself up in his own berth, and
refuse sustenance, but he could not afford
to do it. He felt it was indispensable
for him to appear at meals, and pretend
to have a good appetite, and to talk and
laugh loudly, as he had been wont to do,
but he was obliged to pay for it afterwards
by drowning his thoughts and dulling
his conscience with copious draughts

of brandy. And notwithstanding all his
efforts to appear jolly and at his ease, he
could see that his fellow-passengers were
not quite the same to him as they had
been before. Although Will Farrell and
Mr Fowler had kept their own counsel,
hints would leak out — a word was dropped
here and there, or a look given — and Mr
Harland's companions began to glance
shyly at him. His jests were not responded
to ; his offers of assistance were
rejected ; and conversation was hushed
as he drew near. Even Grace Vansittart
seemed to avoid him, and drop her
big brown eyes confusedly when they
met his. Harland perceived the general
feeling, though no one was brave enough
to express it openly, and it drove him to
drink. For two nights he drank to intoxication
; and after some hours of torpid
sleep he ascended the poop deck, wherewith
bleared eyes and flushed and feverish
face, he leaned upon the taffrail. The
nervous twitching of the fingers that

clawed the buttons of his coat, his startled
glances and trembling tongue, showed
what havoc the drink had made with
him. But the state of the weather was
in his favour. Had not the thoughts of
the ship's company been occupied with
the fog and its possible danger, his conduct
would have been far more noticeable
than it was ; but all minds were too much
wrapped up in their own welfare to have
time to concern themselves about the
doings of others.

As Godfrey Harland left the saloon,
little Winnie Leyton escaped from her
mother's side, and, disobeying orders,
clambered step by step up the ladder,
and landed herself on the poop deck.
Dodging the officer on watch, who happened
to be Vernon Blythe (who, she
knew well, would soon re-consign her to
her mother's care), the mischievous little
imp concealed her tiny person behind the
mizenmast,"waiting until the young sailor
had turned his back, and then pattered

aft along the wet deck to Harland's side.
He hated children, and this one beyond
others, because both her mother and
sister had always displayed a marked
aversion to him. So, to her innocent
questions and remarks, he made no
reply ; and, tired of his silence, Winnie
ran off to find a more congenial companion,
and commenced to play * 
! ' with the quarter-master on the lee
side of the wheel - house, much to the
amusement of that jolly tar. But children
soon weary of any employment ; so,
after standing on the bench and shaking
her arch little head, with its golden curls
at him through the window for the space
of five minutes, she kissed the helmsman
through the pane of glass, and jumped
on the deck again.

Tum here, tum here ! ' she cried presently,
tugging at Harland's coat-tail ;
tum and see dis tunny ting.'

Go along, you little beast ! Go down
to your mother, and don't bother me ! '

he said angrily, as he shook off the
dimpled hand.

Winnie made a wry face, and puckered
up her rosebud mouth for a cry. She
was not used to be called by such ugly
names, and she did not understand them.
But she summoned up courage to remark,
before she did so — determined, like the
majority of her sex, to have the last
word, —

Not bordering ! Dere is a tunny
ting — in de water. Dere / '

It's only a fish. Run away ! I'm
busy ! '

I think it sark. Do tum and see
persisted the child.

Where is it then ? ' inquired Harland.
I suppose you'll give me no peace till
I have looked at it.'

Winnie pulled him along gleefully, delighted
at having gained her own way.

Dere ! dere ! ' she exclaimed, pointing
with her little finger to some object
in the water.

VOL. III. L

But one look was enough for Godfrey
Harland. With his eyes starting from
their sockets with horror, he covered his
face with his hands.

My God ! my God ! ' he exclaimed,
in a voice of agony, as he rushed away
and left the child by herself.

Winnie was terribly frightened. She
couldn't think what she had said, or
done, to make the ' cross man ' so angry
with her ; and bursting into a loud howl,
she attracted the notice of ' Brother Jack '
(as she still called him), who ran forward,
and took her in his arms.

Why, what's the matter, baby ? Have
you hurt yourself ? ' he inquired tenderly,
as he kissed the wet face.

At the same moment he was joined by
Alice, who had been sent by Mrs Leyton
to bring the truant back.

How naughty of you, baby, to runaway
directly mother left the cabin,' she
began reprovingly, but stopped on seeing
her little sister's tears. * Why, who

has made you cry, darling ? Not
Jack?'

*As if "Jack" would replied Vernon,
with mock reproach. * It's you who make
Jack cry, Miss Alice.'

Much you've cried for me,' she answered,
in the same tone. * Why, you've
looked twice as young and handsome since
I set you free. But what has happened
to Winnie .-^ '

Man make faces at me,' sobbed the
child.

Man ! What man ? ' demanded Vernon.


Dere,' said Winnie, pointing to the
wheel-house.

But when Jack searched in that direction,
he found no one. Harland, trembling
with terror, had already hidden
himself below.

I expect it was Mr Harland,' said
Jack. ' He was the only person on
deck a few minutes ago. What did you
do to make him angry, Winnie ? '

Sowed him a fis. I specks it's dere
now.'

'Well, come along, and show it to
Alice and me,' he said, walking aft with
the little child clinging to his hands
look at Winnie's " fis," and see
if we can catch it, and cook it for
mammy's dinner.'

Oh, Jack, how sweet you are ! ' cried
Alice enthusiastically.

She was of a romantic disposition, and
occasionally given to these little outbursts
of sudden regret for the lover whom she
had voluntarily relinquished in favour of
Captain Lovell. Jack looked at her with
a world of merriment in his soft grey
eyes.

Don't be a fool, Alice,' he said,
laughing.

Oh ! but you are,' persisted the girl,
with a suspicious mist obscuring her
sight ; ' you are so kind to everybody.
It seems to me as if you only lived to
make other people happy.'

You're very much mistaken then, for
I can make myself deucedly disagreeable
when I feel inclined. But let's look out
for Winnie's " fis." By Jove ! Alice,
that's no fish ! Wait till I get the
glasses.'

What is it, Jack ? ' asked Alice impatiently,
as he took a long survey of
the object in question. 'Can't you make
it out 1 '

It looks like a black log from here ;
but these glasses are not very clear.
But stay ! there is something white on
it. Good heavens! it is a body! It
must be the woman who jumped overboard
the other night'

Oh, Jack ! how can it be ? '

I can swear it is the body of a woman,
and with a black dress on. Here, Alice,
you had better take Winnie below. This
is no short for either of you. And I must
go at once and report it to the captain.'

Vernon Blythe was correct. Strange
as it may seem, it was the body of poor

Maggie Greet, which had risen to the
surface on the third day.

The Pandora had gone 'far ahead In
the squall ; but since then she had been
slowly but surely drifting back again, and
was now on the very spot where she had
been three nights before, and the murdered
woman floated on the waters within a hundred
yards of her stern.*

A boat was lowered at once, and
paddled to the quarter, and the corpse
was reverently lifted into it, and carried
to the surgery.

There was tremendous excitement
throughout the vessel whilst the doctor's
and captain's examination of the body —
at which they invited Fowler and Farrell
to be present — was going on ; but It resulted
In no discovery that could afford
a clue to the manner of her death. Her
long dark hair had fallen about her face,
having been washed down by the action
of the waves, and her face and figure

A fact.

were much swollen, and beginning to
show signs of discoloration. But there
were no marks of violence to be seen,,
nor any evidence of a struggle having
taken place, nor the slightest proof that
she had been in any way even acquainted
with Godfrey Harland. She still wore
Iris's long cloak, tied round her throat,
but the woollen wrap had fallen from her
head. The poor dead girl formed a sad
and solemn spectacle, and Will Farrell's
grief at the sight of her was profound.
After a rigid and careful examination,.
Mr Fowler led the poor fellow away
to his own berth, fearful lest in his pain
he should say or do something to cast
suspicion on the man they both had in
their mind's eye.

In the dog watch, the body, sewed ina
canvas shroud, and heavily weighted
at the feet, was laid on a grating covered
with the Union Jack, and the bell was
tolled to announce that the funeral was
about to take place.

The passengers, with serious faces,
clustered about the captain and his officers,
who stood close to the grating, and the.
seamen, dressed in their Sunday clothes,
clean shorn, and holding their caps in
their hands, filled up the background.
A burial at sea is one of the most solemn
and impressive services imaginable.

The skipper, officiating in the place of
2l priest, with prayer-book in hand — the
silent corpse that lies under the flag, ready
to be committed to the deep — the infinite
surroundings of water and space — the
unfathomable grave — the words which
are pronounced as the grating is withdrawn,
* We therefore commit this body
to the deep, to be turned into corruption,
looking for the resurrection of the body,
when the sea shall give up her dead ' —
the hollow splash — and the sobs that
often break upon the succeeding silence,
form a scene that cannot be wiped
from the memory in a lifetime. There
were many things to render it more

solemn than usual on this occasion. The
mystery surrounding the sad fate of the
young woman who had been their fellow-passenger
affected most of the spectators
strangely ; and Will Farrell, although he
had promised Iris to control himself, and
his hated enemy, Godfrey Harland, stood
with dry eyes within a few yards of him,
broke down so completely, as the body
disappeared from view, that his sobs
seemed to penetrate every part of the
vessel. Iris, though scarcely less affected,
made no scene. She trembled like an
aspen leaf when she saw her husband
take his place amongst the mourners,
and grew so deadly white that Vernon
Blythe (who never took his eyes off her)
thought she was o^olncr to faint. But she
made a strong effort to recover herself,
and stood silent throughout the ceremony.
When It was over, Indeed, and the passengers
were dispersing, she walked to
the gangway and took a long look at the
water, whilst her tears dropped into it,

and she wished her poor faithful Maggie
farewell until the light of another world
should break upon them. And then she
turned, and laid her hand upon Will
Farrell's arm.

Come, Mr Farrell,' she said gently,
and leave the rest to God I '

As she spoke the words, she raised her
eyes, and encountered those of Godfrey
Harland, and in that glance the wretched
murderer read that his crime was known
to her.

When the burial was over, and the sailors
had resumed their duties, the bell rang
for dinner, but few sat down to it. The
women were overcome by the scene they
had witnessed, and even the men were
not inclined to be jolly or conversational
after so solemn a ceremony.

Farrell,' said Mr Fowler, as he entered
the former's berth, and fastened
the door securely behind him, * I am
afraid the examination of to-day will lead
to no results. There was absolutely nothing

to eulde us as to the manner of
her death. If it did not occur by
accident, we shall have to use other
means by which to arrive at the truth.'

I feel store it did not occur by accident
returned Farrell. * Have you been able
to speak to Harland yet ? '

I have not. He has been drinking
very hard the last few days, and kept to
his cabin, which is in itself a suspicious
circumstance. But I have ascertained
from the second officer, young Blythe
that there was something very strange
about his conduct when the body was
discovered to-day. He did or said something
that nearly frightened Mrs Leyton's
youngster into fits. But if he is guilty
of the murder, he must be a very hardened
villain, for I watched him narrowly
during the burial service, and I could not
detect the least signs of emotion. One
thing only have I ascertained for certain,
and that is, that he did not attend dinner
on the evening of Miss Greet's disappearance,

neither did anybody see him afterwards,
until Dr Lennard and Captain
Lovell went on deck about eleven o'clock
for a smoke, and found him leaning over
the mainsail, and apparently gazing at
the water. Of this there is no doubt.
They are both ready to swear to it.
Also, that he had so much chloroform
on his handkerchief that the doctor turned
quite sick, and begged him to put it away.
Harland said he used the chloroform for
toothache, and so he may have done. But
the doctor has an ugly little story to tell
about finding Mr Harland in his surgery
on the afternoon of the same day, without
his being able to give a good account of
himself, and also of one of his bottles of
chloroform being missing since.'

But what can be clearer ? ' exclaimed
Farrell.

My dear fellow ! it may be clear that
Mr Harland took the doctor's chloroform
without his authority, but there is no proof
he did not use it (as he affirmed) for toothache.

We can do nothing in this matter
without hard, undeniable proofs.'

We shall never do anything ! ' cried
Farrell despairingly. ' The brute will go
scot-free. It is always so in the world.'

Not always, sir; in fact, my experience
is that very few criminals escape in the
long run ; and this business won't be forgotten
against Mr Harland — you may take
your oath of that ! '

I should think I might,' returned
Farrell. '/ shan't forget it, Mr Fowler
and if the law doesn't punish him for it,
/ will. I shall live for nothing henceforward,
but to see that man die as he
killed her. He robbed me of the first
half of my life, and just as I hoped I
might live to forget all I had gone through
on his account, and find some comfort in
the love of a true-hearted woman, he
robs me of her too, and in the cruellest
and most dastardly manner ! But he shall
answer for it ! I swear before God, he
shall live to suffer as she suffered, — to die

hopeless, as she died ! If the hangman
refuses the job, I'll twist the rope round
his dirty neck myself!'

Hush ! hush ! you must not speak like
that,' said Mr Fowler; 'you are excited,
and don't know what you are saying.
Go to bed now, my good fellow, and try to
sleep. You will be worn out if you keep
this sort of thing up much longer ! '

Yes ; I'll take your advice, and get
into my berth. I may as well sleep now ;
she's sleeping under the water, and I can
never do her any more good in this world.
And I shall want all my strength, too,
Mr Fowler ; I shall want it for what' s
coming ! '

He scrambled into his berth as he spoke,
and the kind-hearted detective having
administered a sleeping-draught to him,
under the guise of a stiff glass of whisky
toddy, left him to forget his troubles as
best he might.

A CHANGE.

Bring that night a gentle
breeze rippled the bosom of
the ocean, and the unhealthy
mist, like a death-shroud hung over the
face of the living, was slowly lifted, and
passed away. By morning, when long
white shafts of light were appearing in
the eastward, there was a clear horizon,
and, better still, a fair wind. Then the
clouds assumed fantastic shapes, and
drifted towards the west, and a rosy hue
tinted the white sky, which turned to a
deep scarlet, and finally resolved itself to

a rich orange, until a majestic ball of fire
shot up into the heavens, and lit the day
with golden beams.

The Pandora was making her eight
knots an hour with flowing sheets. All
her sails were spread to the wind, and the
sun soon dried and warmed her decks.
Several other vessels were in sight — small
coasters — that were making northerly
courses, and occasionally a black pillar of
smoke from the funnel of a steamer could
be distinguished right ahead. The passengers,
recovered from their despondency,
had assembled with smiling faces on the
poop deck.

Mr and Mrs Vansittart were present,
delighted at the idea of so soon reaching
terra firma, and resuming their life in the
bush, and not less so at the prospect of
eettinor rid of their troublesome companion.
For Mr Vansittart fully coincided
now with his wife's opinion concerning
Godfrey Harland, and had quite
made up his mind to dismiss him as soon

as ever they reached New Zealand. He
would not be ungenerous, or unkind.
That was not in his nature. He would
recoup him liberally for his trouble and
loss of time, but he would not take him
up to Tabbakooloo. His behaviour with
Grace, and her evident infatuation for him,
would have been sufficient reason to prevent
it, without the very serious suspicions
that had lately attached themselves to his
name. So that matter was settled, eminently
to the satisfaction of Mrs Vansittart,
although her husband was not
equally delighted at the prospect of the
task that lay before him.

Mrs Leyton, keeping one eye upon her
baby and the other upon Alice and
Captain Lovell, was smiling serenely at
the prospect of meeting her husband, and
having some one to look after her again,
and Miss Vere was in the same state of
joyful anticipation.

The actress had made good use of her
time.

VOL. III. M

The long monotonous voyage had afforded
her ample leisure for studying her new
roles, and she was looking forward with
the keenest pleasure to making her debut
and her name in a new country, and with
a new people.

Her parts suited her to perfection, her
wardrobe was safe in the hold, her husband
was waiting to receive her with open
arms in Canterbury. What on earth
could any woman want more. She looked
radiant with health and happiness, as she
sat in her deck chair, talking with Harold
Greenwood, who generally played shadow
to her substance. This young gentleman
had not been so stricken by his disappointment
as some people might imagine,
neither had the unexpected revelation
that his divinity was married had any
effect in making him alter his pre-conceived
determination to follow her through
the New World. She could still be worshipped,
even if she were Mrs Perkins!
In fact, Mr Greenwood had not quite made

up his mind whether he might not yet
cut Mr Perkins out. And Miss Vere's
manner to him may have favoured the
idea. She delighted in her Httle ' master,'
and never lost an opportunity of letting
him make a fool of himself. He was her
fetcher and carrier, and general ' walking-stick,'
and she so often avowed that she
did not know what she should have done
on the voyage without him, that he quite
believed himself to be indispensable to
her comfort.

Oh, / travel with '' the company," '
he would reply to any one who asked him
what were his plans on reaching New
Zealand. ' You see Miss Vere couldn't
very well do without me. I'm her *' factotum,"
as she is pleased to call it. In
fact,' he would continue, lowering his
voice, ' I ran a very good chance once
of becoming a near connection of Mr
Perkins'. No, that's not it exactly,' he
would say, correcting himself, with a
puzzled look upon his flabby face ; ' but

I ought to have been Mr Perkins, or
I should have been, if there had been no
Mr Perkins at all. You understand, I'm
sure. It's the way of the world, but it's
the sort of thing one can't talk about.'

So half the passengers thought Mr
Greenwood was a very wicked and immoral
young man, and the other half
thought — well, they thought, and justly,
that he was an ass, with something spelt
with a big D before it. But he was none
the less amusing on that account to Miss
Vere, who declared that he was the sole
thing that had kept her in health during
the voyage.

Alice Leyton, leaning on the arm of
Captain Lovell, whose engagement to
her was known to the whole ship's company,
walked blithely up and down the
deck, bandying jests with her old lover
whenever she came across him ; and Mr
Fowler strutted in company with Dr Lennard.
Their colloquy, indeed, appeared
to be of more importance than that of the

others, which was the reason, perhaps,
that they conversed with lowered voices,
and stopped every now and then and
leaned over the side of the vessel, whilst
they peered with solemn looks into each
other's faces.

Godfrey Harland, who was seated upon
the skylight benches, apparently shunned
by everybody, did not seem to like the
way in which Mr Fowler and the doctor
were talking to each other, for he watched
their movements and grimaces attentively,
though he was very careful not be caught
doing so.

Captain Robarts, who was also on deck,
seemed to have shaken off ' the black
dog ' that had clung to him so much of
late, and actually greeted the ladies with
the nearest approach he could manufacture
to a smile. The wind and the
weather had had a marvellous effect upon
him. Three or four times during the
morning he had rushed into the pilot-house
and examined his precious sextant.

and brightened up its silver arc with his
silk bandana. He was In exuberant
spirits yi?r him, — thankful beyond measure
that the voyage had terminated with
so few mishaps, and that his barque was
within a day's sail of the land. He forgot
his petty annoyances, and chatted to
his first officer in quite a lively manner.
He regarded his vessel with a complacent,
self-satisfied air, as if she owed
everything she was, or had done, to him
alone. He sometimes indulged in a low
chuckle to himself ; and had he not considered
that he might have fallen thereby
in the estimation of his passengers and
crew, he might even have committed the
impropriety of bursting out into song.
But from this indiscretion his utter want
of voice or musical ability mercifully preserved
him.

But the crowning bliss was yet to come.
Mr Coffin, obeying the instructions of his
superior officer, officially proclaimed to
the ladies and gentlemen on deck, that

the following day would bring them to
the end of their voyage, and in two days'
time (providing there was no quarantine)
they would all be on shore.

This news was received with the greatest
excitement and applause. Miss Vere
set the example of clapping her hands,
which was taken up by all present, and
the second-class passengers, who had
been listening to the first officer's harangue
from the quarter-deck, burst forth, on its
conclusion, into a loud cheer.

Godfrey Harland joined in it. The intelligence
was, perhaps, more welcome to
him than to any one there. In a day
more he would be free — free from these
long faces and suspicious looks — free also,
he hoped, from his wife, and the scrutiny
of Farrell. As he thought of Iris, he
glanced down at the quarter-deck, and
saw her standing there by the side of
Perry, with her serious eyes strained in
the direction in which they had told her
the land lay. The idea flashed across

Harland's mind that it would be as well,
perhaps, to speak to her as soon as he
could do so without attracting notice.
He had had no communication with her
since that night. Would she not think
it strange if he did not ask the reason of
her not complying with his request ? He
waited until most of the saloon passengers
had disappeared, joyfully bent on packing
their boxes, and writing letters with the
news of their arrival, to be despatched
to the old country which they had left
thousands of miles astern, as soon as they
touched land. And then, with a quick
look around, to see if he was observed,
Godfrey Harland descended the companion,
and made his way to the side of
his wife. Will Farrell was below at the
time, and Perry had walked away before
Harland appeared. There was no one
near enough to overhear their conversation.


Iris,' he commenced (but do what he
would, he could not help his voice shaking),

' did you receive my letter the other
night ? '

I did,' she answered, without looking
at him.

Why did you not meet me then, as I
asked you to do, in the spare galley ? '

You know the reason well. Poor
Maggie came to meet you, instead of
me.'

Maggie I ' exclaimed Godfrey, with a
well-feigned start of surprise, ' Maggie !
Was it in coming after me that the poor
girl met her death ? This is terrible
news! It was a great shock to me when
I heard who was missing. Why did you
not tell me she was on board ? '

I did not see the necessity.'

Of course I could have no idea she
would cross the sea with you : it was so
unlikely. What could have been her
motive in doing so ? '

I do not suppose it is any concern of
yours.'

You are very cold and hard to me.

One would think I had been doing something
wrong. What is the matter ? I
came down with the kindest feelings, to
make some arrangement with you about
landing tomorrow. We cannot go together,
but I must not lose sight of you.
I cannot quite decide what is best to be
done.'

Spare yourself the trouble, Godfrey ;
I do not intend to go with you.'

Who do you go with, then ? '

That is ny business. But I will never
live with yoti' again, rest assured of that.'

This determination, so different from
what Iris had expressed before, when she
had threatened to compel him to acknowledge
and support her, filled Harland with
terror. There was evidently some deep
feeling at work, to have made her alter
her mind so soon, and speak so boldly to
him. Was it possible she new how
Maggie Greet had come by her death, and
was resolved to expose him ? What else
could imbue her with this sudden independence

and hardihood ? As he thought
of it, his knees knocked together with
fright. But he tried to brave it out.

I can't understand your tactics, Iris.
Last time we met, you told me that if I
would give you my written word to live
soberly for the future, everything should
be right between us. Well, I am ready to
give you my promise to that effect. I
wrote you that letter with the idea of
making up our quarrel, and I have hardly
spoken to Miss Vansittart since. Indeed
she is quite angry with me for my want
of courtesy. And now you appear to
have changed your mind. What is the
reason ? '

I don't see that there is any need to
give it you, and I am quite sure you would
not like to hear it if I did. But I am
quite resolved not to owe anything to you
for the future. I will neither live with
you, nor take any maintenance from you.
I would rather starve, a great deal. And
now you know my determination, please

not to speak to me again, or you may
drive me to do something for which we
may both be sorry.'

Godfrey Harland understood her now.
He saw plainly that she suspected, though
it was impossible that she should know.
Still — if he aggravated her into giving
vent to her suspicions — it might be very
awkward for him. Conciliation all round
was the only card left for him to play.

You have got some fancied grudge
against me, Iris, I suppose, though I can't
for the life of me i machine what.'

If / imagine it, it is sufficient for my
purpose.'

True. But I am sorry. I had dreamt
we might turn over a new leaf in the new
country, and become a model married
couple.'

No. That will never be — now,' she
said significantly.

You understand plainly that my little
flirtation with Miss Vansittart is completely
over, don't you ? '

eyes.'

And that my income is to commence
at six hundred a year.'

'Yes.'

And I am willing to remit you half of
it, until I can disclose our marriage to
Mr Vansittart ? '

Yes.'

And yet you refuse to live with me, —
you give me up altogether, at the very
moment when I have the opportunity to
keep you in a comfortable home.'

I do. I refuse to have anything whatever
to do with you, from this hour to the
last day of my life.'

Have you confided your intention to
any one else ? '

To no one.'

He drew closer to her, and whispered
nervously, —

'Iris — if — if — you have taken any
absurd notions into your head, which have
not the slightest foundation — you — you
won't ruin me, will you ? You won't go

and make them public property, so as to
cast an unmerited stigma upon me, and
spoil all my future prospects ? '

Then she turned her pale face towards
him, and he read the truth in her eyes.

'You have no cause to fear me,' she
answered contemptuously. ' You will
never be betrayed by me. But — it must
depend on the condition that you never
claim me as your wife, nor try to marry
another woman. If you attempt to interfere
with me, or to force me to live with
you again, I shall adopt what means I canto
prevent you. Understand me plainly,
Godfrey Harland. You and I are parted
for ever. I would not even stoop to take
your hand, that is stained with — '

'Hush, hush! for God's sake!' he entreated
; ' it is a mistake ; it is not true.
I had nothing whatever to do with it'

Say no more,' she interposed, with a
quick look of horror. * Every word you
utter is a fresh condemnation. If you
want me to be silent — if you want me to

keep my promise and my senses, you will
leave me to myself, and never attempt to
see me again.'

She turned from him, and by the convulsive
twitching of her face he saw how
difficult she found it to control herself
He made one more effort to speak, but
Iris waved him from her, and feeling very
uncomfortable, conscience - stricken, and
alarmed, Godfrey Harland retreated to his
own cabin, to consider what steps it would
be wisest to take in the matter.

EXPOSURE.

T four bells in the early watch
at the break of the ensuing
day, Captain Robarts was to
be seen walking in company with his
chief officer. The wind had continued
to blow steadily during the night, freshening
a little at eight bells, and the Pandora
had, at that time, but one hundred
miles to traverse. Should the elements
continue to favour them, the skipper
expected to be anchored in the Bay
before midnight. But the appearance of
the sun, which just peeped from a curtain

of bright red clouds, bordered with
dull orange, formed the subject of a grave
discussion between the two officers.

I don't like the looks of it, sir,' said
Mr Coffin, who had summoned his commander
to join him in an inspection of
the offending luminary ; ' and my opinion
is, that we shall get it before night
falls.'

We ought to be at anchor by the
second dog watch,' observed the captain ;
have you noticed the barometer ? '

Yes ; and it's falling, sir,' replied the
mate gravely. ' Look at the lumpy sea,
too. The wind is not shifting about.
There is no reason why those waves
should toss about in that fashion.'

I don't mind the water so much said
Captain Robarts ; * but those blood-red
streaks about that washed-out sun look
dirty. What's she making ? '

Eight and a-quarter when I hove the
log at eight bells, sir answered Mr
Coffin.

VOL. III. N

Let me see, then. We ought to sight
the land by two. I shall go below now,
and get my coffee. Don't alter her
course, but call me if there is any change.
And, by-the-way, Mr Coffin, tell Mr
Blythe that if he has time to do it this
morning, I want the booms put into the
foremast.'

And with another glance towards the
east, Captain Robarts retreated to his
berth.

Before the decks were washed, several
of the male passengers had ascended
the poop. It was the usual custom
with them aboard to be called at five
bells, and when six bells struck, and
the decks had been well scrubbed and
squeezed ' down, to make their appearance
above.

On the morning in question, however,
the shell backs had not yet shipped their
pumps and hose when Captain Lovell,
Harold Greenwood, Mr Vansittart, and
others climbed up the ladder, and beset

the mate with questions. But when the
nozzle commenced to play a stream of
water over their trousers, these gentlemen,
whose shore rig-out (unlike the
sea-boots of the ship's company) could
not withstand the briny, took refuge in
the little pilot-house, and, lighting their
cheroots, waited till they might find a dry
resting-place outside.

What did Mr Coffin say ? ' asked
Captain Lovell.

I couldn't succeed in getting anything
out of him,' laughed Mr Vansittart. * He
only muttered something about sighting
land this afternoon.'

These sailors always like to be so confoundedly
mysterious,' remarked another.
Why the deuce can't the fellow satisfy
our curiosity, instead of talking in riddles }
He must know perfectly well when the
ship is due.'

Wait till Blythe comes along. He'll
tell us.'

Yes ; he's a very different build from

these uncouth bears. Vernon Blythe is
a gentleman,' said Lovell ; ' but Captain
Robarts doesn't know how to answer a
civil question, and Mr Coffin thinks it
funny to slap you in the face (metaphorically
speaking) for asking it.'

Any room inside there for a little
one ? ' inquired Mr Fowler, looking in at
the doorway. ' These fellows seem to
enjoy throwing the water over one.'

Yes ; come in. Good-morning. How
are you ? ' said Lovell.

Jolly, thanks. Had a capital night's
rest. What's the betting on the passage
now ? '

'Well, I'm afraid the odds will be
longer, since the sun and barometer have
conspired to damp our hopes,'

What ; are we going to have a blow ? '
demanded Fowler.

So the mate thinks. The skipper has
been on deck too, which is unusual for
him, I think. He does not, as a rule,
leave his blankets so early.'

I noticed something queer about the
sun when I was on the quarter-deck,'
said Mr Fowler. * I am not much of a
judge of such matters, but it looked uncanny
to me. By Jove ! do you hear
those gulls ? They are uttering the most
discordant screams. I expect there is
something in that too.'

The voice of the first officer here broke
in upon their conjectures.

Clew up the mizen royal,' he shouted
suddenly.

Hullo! it has begun already!' exclaimed
Captain Lovell ; ' let us go out on deck.
They can't haul on the ropes and drench
our trousers through at the same time.'

The sun had risen clear of the horizon
now, and was lighting up the seething
ocean, with its watery rays. The red
clouds still hung about, but their colour
did not appear to be so vivid. In the
westward, on the starboard bow, a dusty-looking
vapour obscured everything from
view. As the wind increased, the

Pandora with flowing sheets, quickened
her speed. The log then told nine and
a half.

On all sides, the sea, instead of rolling
in long swells, rose in the air in chops,
often breaking suddenly and dispersing in
rivers of white foam. The water gurgled
through the crevices in the ports, and
flowed back through the scuppers. After
much flapping, the royal were secured
and made fast to the yards, and then,
the mizentop-gallant sail was stowed,
which made spits bounce aboard over the
after mainsail.

Several vessels were passed.

A lively little coaster, under reefed topsails
and storm staysail, and a big smoke-jack,
breasting the sea, steaming in the
very teeth of the wind, dipping her bows
frequently, and ladling up large seas upon
her top-gallant forecastle, that made the
look-out ' hastily lay aft, and take up his
responsible position on the bridge.

But the Pandora had the best of it.

She was before the wind, and all her
square canvas was drawing to advantage.
Little was eaten at the breakfast table that
day. Excitement chased away hunger,
and the ladies emerged from their berths,
warmly wrapped in hats and cloaks, and
after swallowing a few hasty morsels, went
on deck to aid in keeping a good look-out.
A hundred times the circulars and spy-glasses
were levelled towards the land, and
on each occasion the eager questioners received
an answer in the negative.

Two people alone on board ship appeared
indifferent to their whereabouts,
and refused to sympathise with the animal
spirits and glad anticipations of the
passengers. These were the captain of
the vessel, and his chief officer, who regarded
the signs of the weather as far
more important and interesting than the
proximity of land. At noon, the main-topgallant
sail was taken off her, and she
then rolled heavily. Large seas thumped
over by the main chains, making the

gangway exceedingly difficult to traverse
without receiving a shower bath.

The increased violence of the wind did
not hasten the speed of the Pandora, and
it was not till four o'clock in the afternoon,
when the passengers had become weary
of looking out for it, that a dark line in the
horizon, looming through the surrounding
mist, intimated that they were at last insight
of land.

That's it, sure enough, sir,' remarked
Mr Coffin. ' Those ugly crags mark the
entrance to the bay. But I don't think
we shall get anchorage to-night.'

Nonsense ! we are not thirty miles
off,' replied the captain.

But the wind is increasing, sir,'
argued the mate, ' and we shan't get a
pilot. So how about anchorage ? '

Plenty of good anchorage there, Mr
Coffin. I shall run in this evening and
bring up under the cliffs. We shall be
under the hills by ten o'clock.

'Yes, sir; but I've known it to blow

stiffer when it comes down between
those hills than when outside.'

To this remark Captain Robarts gave
no answer but a grunt.

Are the anchors over the bows '^, ' he
asked presently.

Yes, sir ; we got them over in yesterday's
dog watch.'

See your cable ranged on deck clear
for running, and tell the carpenter to
look to his windlass,' and turning aft,
the captain went to alter her course.

Land, ho ! ' shouted the man on the
look-out, which made the passengers
jump from their seats, and rush to the
side.

Ay, ay,' replied Captain Robarts
indifferently.

Let her go off a point,' he continued,
speaking to the helmsman, and having
satisfied himself that the vessel was on
her right road, he turned away to avoid
any questions that might be put to
him.

As soon as that longed-for cry had
been sung out, everybody was naturally
eager to discern the promised land.

But I can't see anything /' exclaimed
Alice Leyton. * I wish Jack was here ;
I am sure there must be something
wrong with these glasses.'

I expect it requires a practised eye,'
said Captain Lovell. * By Jove ! though,
I can make out a headland over there.
Can't you see a grey peak ? '

I think I can,' replied Alice, but her
tone was too doubtful to be relied on.

But in the course of another hour,
when two bells had been sounded in the
dog watch, the tall rugged form was distinctly
visible, with its rough beetling
crags majestically facing the ocean, but
the foot was not apparent. There was a
thick pearly mist on the face of the
water, that hid the breakers that dashed
with such fury against the rocks from
view, and allowed only the summit of
the land to be seen.

Will Farrell paced the quarter-deck,
burning with thoughts of revenge. He
longed to confront his enemy Harland,
and prove him to be the murderer of
the woman he had loved, and yet he
dared not disobey the orders of the
detective.

Yet what if he should escape ? ' he
thought to himself, as his hands nervously
grasped the lappets of his coat. ' Here weare
within sight of land, and the villain
is cunning enough for anything. Once
let him get on shore, and neither Mark
Rendle nor I will ever see him againe
will hide like a fox. Surely the
passengers ought to share our knowledge
and suspicions, that there may bethe
less chance of his getting off scotfree.
He has done it once. Why
should he not do it again ? Yet, if I
should ruin all my chances of revenge !
What shall I do.^'

Almost as he thought thus, Godfrey
Harland appeared before him. He had

been considerably upset by Iris's reception
of him the day before. Her look and
manner and speech had so palpably conveyed
to him the truth that she suspected
him of having had a share in the death of
Maggie Greet. And if she suspected it,
perhaps Farrell did so too. And yet of
what avail were their suspicions, when
they could not possibly have any proofs,
and would not dare to speak without them ?
Even the doctor's careful examination of
the body had resulted (as Harland had
taken good care to ascertain) in his being
unable to detect any signs of violence.
And now she was hidden from sight forevermore
— buried in the unfathomable
depths of the sea, and no one had the
right to call her accidental death by any
other name. At the same time, he had
decided it would be advisable to conciliate
Farrell, if possible, before going on shore,
so as to prevent his tongue wagging more
than was agreeable when he got there.
And to that intent Harland now approached

his enemy, with a pleasant smile
and an outstretched palm. He could not
have chosen a more unfavourable moment
for making his overtures of peace.

'How are you, old man?' he commenced
airily, as he proffered his hand.
Here we are, you see, at the end of our
journey, and tomorrow we shall part, perhaps
for ever.'

What do you mean by speaking tome
? ' demanded Farrell, orlarinp- at him.

Mean ! Why, that I want to part
friends with you. Come along, and have
a drink.'

Have a drink ! ' replied Farrell, dashing
the offered hand to the ground. ' Do you
imagine that / would drink with you ? '

And why not ? ' said Harland, determined
to brave it out. ' What harm have
/ done you ? Surely you are not going
to harbour that old grudge against me forever.
Come, man, try to forget and forgive.
If ever it is in my power, I'll make
it up to you — upon my soul I will ; but

just at present I expect I'm as poor as
yourself.*

Make it up to me! ' cried Farrell fiercely.
Can you give me back the character you
took away, or restore the woman who was
to have been my wife ? '

At that allusion Harland grew ashy
pale ; for Farrell spoke so loud that the
whole ship might have heard him.

Hold your tongue, you young fool ! ' he
exclaimed. ' You don't know what you're
talking about. I had no more to do with
the girl's death than you had yourself.
What's the use of talking such nonsense,
just because we had a bit of a tiff over our
play 1 Make it up like a sensible man,
and have a drink over it.'

Stand off!' thundered Farrell; 'don't
dare to approach me, or it will be the
worse for you.'

What do you mean ? Are you drunk,
or mad ? '

Whichever you please ; but if you don't
go at once it will be the worse for you.'

Harland would have gone as desired,
had not Bob Perry appeared at that
moment upon the scene.

Hullo, Farrell ! ' he cried, ' what's up ? '

This scoundrel dares to ask me to
drink with him,' replied Will hotly.

And, pray, what harm is there in that } '
asked Harland nonchalantly.

His manner irritated Farrell beyond
endurance.

Do you presume to ask me ? ' he cried.
Do you wish me to carry out my threat,
and expose you to the whole ship ? '

'You dare not!' hissed Harland in his
ear ; ' you have not a single proof to bring
forward to support your lies ; whilst /
should ask you before them all how much
you know of the disappearance of your
leman over the ship's side the other
night'

'Liar!' exclaimed Will Farrell, flying
at his throat, and in another minute the
two men were rolling on the deck together,
locked in a furious embrace. Perry called

for help, and every one on deck was soon
witnessing the struggle. Again and again
did the combatants spring up and fly
afresh at each other, but at last the screams
of the women and the expostulations of
the men seemed to rouse them to some
sense of their disgraceful position, and,
bruised and bleeding, they allowed themselves
to be separated. Harland was
much the more severely punished of the
two, and seemed almost fainting, as he was
supported between Dr Lennard and Captain
Lovell ; but Farrell, pinioned in the
strong arms of Vernon Blythe, was quite
ready to go on with the fight, and it demanded
all the strength of the young
officer to prevent his flying at his enemy
again.

A LEE SHORE.

This is disgraceful, gentlemen ! '
exclaimed Dr Lennard ; ' and
I am surprised at your so
forgetting yourselves. If you do not
cease fighting at once, you will compel
me to call in the authority of the captain.'

Let me go,' panted Farrell, as he
struggled in the detaining grasp of Jack
Blythe ; ' let me finish the brute whilst I
can ! He is a forger and a murderer. He
is not fit to live.'

He lies' murmured Harland, faint with
loss of blood. ' He is mad ; don't listen
to him.'

VOL. in. o

But every one was listening. The saloon
passengers hung over the fiferail, the
stewards appeared in the cabin passage,
the shell backs gathered in a group at the
main rigging, and the rest were clustered
upon every side.

'It Is the truth!' gasped Farrell. He
has defied and insulted me, and I will
expose him.'

Don't let him speak,' said Harland,
shaking with fear.

'Yes, yes! let us hear him,' interposed
the second-class passengers.

Ay, ay, let the lad have fair play ! '
exclaimed a veteran shellback.

I will tell you about the murder,' continued
Farrell, choking with excitement
and fury.

The murder ! ' echoed a dozen voices.
But at that moment Mr Fowler pushed
his way through the crowd, and caught
hold of Will Farrell.

'Stop, man, for Heaven's sake!' he
cried.

No, no ; you shall not stop me,' replied
Farrell, wrenching himself out of his
grasp. * My blood is up, and everybody
shall know the truth of it.'

I warn you — ' continued the detective.

The time is past for warning,' said the
unhappy Farrell ; * all I want is my revenge.'


Let us hear him. It's only fair that
he should be allowed to speak ! ' exclaimed
the crowd.

That man, who calls himself Godfrey
Harland, is Horace Cain, the forger of
Starling's cheque, who escaped to America,
and came back under an assumed name.'

Harland's white lips moved to refute the
assertion, but no sound came from them.

'He is the husband of the lady who
calls herself Miss Douglas, and whom he
deserted and left (as he thought) in
England ; and the girl — the poor girl,'
continued Farrell, in a choking voice, * as
came by her death the other night, and as
was to have been my wife, went up at that

very hour to meet him, and show him the
proofs I hold against him for forgery.
What do you say to that ? '

Where are your proofs ? ' gasped Har-land,
to whom terror seemed to have
restored his speech. * I don't know Miss
Douglas, or the other woman. I never
spoke to either of them. You must mistake
me for some other man.'

No, he don't,' interposed a sailor, ' for
you met Miss Douglas when she was in
the spare galley along with me, sir, and
you knew her, and called her by her
name as soon as you clapped eyes on
her!'

Can you swear to that } ' asked the
detective.

/ can swear to it,' replied Iris, suddenly
appearing in their midst, * for I am his
wife. Iris Harland.'

At this announcement, Grace Vansittart
gave a slight scream, and fell into the
arms of her mother.

It is for her sake, not my own, that

I have said this,' continued Iris; 'and of
all the rest, / know nothing'

She swayed forward here, as though
she were about to fall, and Vernon
Blythe flew to her side and threw his
arm around her.

Courage,' he said, in a low voice, and
as he spoke she seemed to revive, like
a flower when the skies are opened.

But who can speak to Mr Harland's
having met Miss Greet on the evening
she fell overboard ? ' demanded a voice
from the crowd.

*/ know that when she was found she
wore Miss Douglas's cloak, which she
had taken from her cabin after she was
asleep,' said a steward.

And I — ' interposed Dr Lennard, * that
on that evening, as I left the dinner-table,
I found Mr Harland in my surgery,
who told me he had dropped the end of
a cigar there. The same night, at about
eleven o'clock, Captain Lovell and I found
him alone by the mainsail, and asked

him to accompany us to the smoke-room,,
which was immediately pervaded by a
strong smell of chloroform, proceeding
from his pocket-handkerchief. The next
morning I discovered one of my bottles
of chloroform was missing.

I — I — told you — I had the toothache,'
said Harland, with chattering teeth.

So you are the hero of the Starling
forgery case, Mr Harland. You made
a plucky bolt of it, and though I have
been on the lookout for you several
times since, I little thought to find you
so many miles from home. Without a
warrant, my power is at present useless,
but I must detain you from going on
shore, on the charges of forgery and —
suspected murder ! '

Can I — can I — go to my cabin .'^ '
gasped Harland, who felt that every eye
that of Miss Vansittart included — was
on him.

Certainly ; it is better you should do
so,' replied Mr Fowler ; ' and I will see

you are not disturbed nor molested in anyway.'


The unhappy man shambled off, eager
only to hide himself from the scrutiny
of his companions, and the company on
the quarter-deck broke up.

So you are a detective ? ' said Captain
Lovell to Mr Fowler.

Yes, sir. It is useless to keep up
the deception any longer. As soon as
I arrive at Lyttleton, I shall return by
the first mail to London. You little
suspected you had an official on board,
but as matters have turned out, it is as
well that I was here.'

'And why are you going to New
Zealand ? '

That I must not tell you, but you
may be sure it is not for pleasure.
Allow me to hand you my card.'

'Mark Rendle!' exclaimed Captain
Lovell; 'the hero of the International
forgeries ! I am proud to know you,'
extending his hand. ' Had you only

thrown off your disguise, how you might
have amused us during the voyage.'

Possibly ; but I had my duty to think
of, and had I permitted pleasure to interfere
with it, this little game, for one,
would have been spoiled. But as it is
blowing hard, I will go below and get
my overcoat. The one I feel for most
in this business is poor Miss Vansittart.
There is no doubt this rascal has been
passing himself off on her as a single
man. How will she bear the shock?'

Better than you think, I imagine,'
replied Captain Lovell. ' She is not a
young woman of very deep feelings, and
her vanity will be more hurt than anything
else. Will you join me in a glass
of whisky ? '

And Mr Mark Rendle having assented,
the two men strolled together to the
bar.

It was then past seven o'clock, and
the shades of night had hidden the land.
The fog also made it very thick ahead,

so that the entrance to the bay could not
be distinguished.

The wind howled and wailed with
piercing accents through the rigging, the
sea was very high, and boiling torrents
of foam hissed around the Pandora. The
mainsail and crossjack were both safely
rolled up, and the vessel began to labour
heavily in the turbulent sea.

Long, grey clouds sailed across the sky,
making the moon appear as though she
were travelling at an enormous speed.

For two hours more the good ship
stood on, and then the wind was blowing
a strong gale. Captain Robarts was
getting very uneasy. He was not certain
if he was steering straight for the mouth
of the bay, and it was too late for him
to turn back.

The truth is, he was close to a very
dangerous lee shore. Mr Coffin and Mr
Blythe stood together by the rigging trying
to peer through the mist, whilst Mr
Sparkes, with two seamen, was on the

look-out. Half an-hour afterwards, a
voice sung out ' Land ho ! on the port
beam, sir!' The Pandora had entered
the bay.

Lower away the topsail halliards,' ordered
the captain. * Stand by your port
anchor, Mr Coffin.'

Land right ahead ! ' shouted the voice
from the forecastle.

What's that ? ' yelled the skipper.
Hard a-port with your helm, man ! — over
with it!'

There was a sudden movement made
by a few of the passengers toward the
wheel, the vessel answered her helm
and paid off; but Captain Robarts had
miscalculated his position. A moment
afterwards there was an ugly, grating
noise, that seemed to scrape the ship's
keel fore and aft, — a sudden lurch, — a
tremendous crash, and the Pandora,
with her fore and maintop-gallant masts
and jiboom carried away — a pitiful, miserable
wreck — heeled over, with the sharp-pointed,

cruel rocks deeply imbedded in
her side.

Before any one on board was fully
aware of their perilous situation, a monstrous
sea washed over her deck, carrying
the first officer, Mr Coffin, and several
sailors away before it, and half-filling the
cabin, followed by others that leapt over
at the fore and main chains. In a moment
all was confusion. Vernon Blythe
was witness to the disappearance of the
mate, and immediately took command in
his stead.

Man the starboard lifeboat ! ' he ordered,
in a firm, loud voice.

All realised the meaning of those terrible
words. The women shrieked and clung to
each other, whilst their faces blanched with
mortal fear. With clenched teeth, and
eyes staring into vacancy, they tried to
pray, but only succeeded in wringing
their hands in despair. The furious seas
that were clearing the ship's main deck —
the wild confusion on board — the warring

of the elements as they thrashed and
battled against the precipitous cliffs —
resounding in the chasms with the noise
of thunder, and retreating only to charge
again ; the hoarse cries of the sea birds,
and the thought of their close proximity
to Death, appalled them beyond description.

The men stood bewildered, clutching at
the rails, and watching the agonised frenzy
of the weaker sex without offerings them
any comfort or assistance. They were
unnerved themselves, and showed their
terror by their scared and expressionless
faces, trembling limbs, and speechless
tongues.

Vernon Blythe was busily employed on
the skids, cheering on the sailors, and
superintending the lowering of the lifeboat.
His face was very white and
strained, but his hands were steady ; and
of all there, young or old, he was the most
courageous and self-possessed. He had
no leisure to think of the sad fate of his
chief officer, poor Abel Coffin, who, with

five sturdy shell backs, had been swept
from his side into the boiling deep. He
dared not even think of Iris Harland,
though every effort he made seemed to
be done for her, and her alone. He was
conscious of only one thing, — that, in that
fearful hour, he stood alone, responsible
for the actions of the sailors, and the
safety of their living freight. He stood
there, calm and collected, taking no heed
of the confusion by which he was surrounded.
His lip quivered a little, and
a drop of blood, which he had drawn
with his closed teeth, trickled slowly onto
his chin. But his orders were given
in a clear, authoritative voice — slowly and
deliberately, and without the least sign
of fear. The seamen noticed his cool
courage, and it urged them on to redouble
their efforts, and fight against the
raging storm. Vernon Blythe, young ashe
was, to assume such a command,
taught them a lesson that night which
those who survived it never forgot. He

showed them the value of self-control ina
time of danger, and what a pitiable
creature the man without it can prove
himself to be.

That man, strange to say, was the very-one
who should have been to the front in
everything — the commander of the vessel,
Captain Robarts. There he stood, next
to Jack Blythe, with a face of ashen
paleness, a trembling frame, chattering
teeth, that rattled like castanets against
each other, wild, haggard looks, and a
total inability to supply his young officer's
place. When the man was most wanted
to show an example of courage and trust
in God — when he should have taken the
sole command of his ship's company, and
lived or died with them — his despicable
cowardice completely annexed him, and
he might have been the smallest cabin-boy
on board, for the picture of abject
terror he displayed.

When the tempest arose, and the wrath
of Heaven seemed poured out upon them,



and that beautiful axiom of George Herbert's
— * He that will learn to pray, let him
go to sea ' — appeared most applicable, then
Captain Robarts forgot his Creator, his
position, and his duty.

SHIPWRECKED.

N the midst of this terrible confusion,
the starboard lifeboat
of the Pandora was taken
from her chocks, and swung into the
davit tackles. Six sailors jumped quickly
into her, and took their places on the
thwarts, and the third officer, Mr Sparkes,
grasped the tiller in the stern sheets.
Then the women, with tear-stained faces
and dishevelled hair, were handed down,
some moaning piteously with fright, others
murmuring prayers to Heaven for help.

and clinging to their companions in their
distress. The first to enter the boat was
Grace Vansittart, waiHng louder than the
rest, and covering her face with her hands
to shut out the terrifying scene around
her. Her usually blooming face was
white as marble, and her large brown
eyes seemed to be starting from their
sockets. But her grief was all for herself.
No thought, in that awful hour,
of the wretched man to whom she had
been vowing protestations of fidelity
throughout the voyage occupied her
mind. She was too much alarmed on
her own account to remember anybody
else. Father, mother, and lover had
alike sunk into insignificance beside the
danger that threatened herself. There
was no doubt but that, should Miss Vansittart
survive the wreck, she would soon
enough be comforted for the loss of
Godfrey Harland. Mr and Mrs Vansittart
were the next to follow.

The old man had wished to remain

VOL. III. p

behind, but his wife had clung to him
with so tenacious a grasp, that Vernon
Blythe pushed them both in together.

John ! John ! ' the poor woman had
exclaimed ; * we have lived together for
thirty years ! Don't let us die apart ! '

And after all, as Vernon in the pride
of his young manhood thought, what
was an old man but a woman !

Mrs Leyton followed with Alice, but
not before they had both turned round
and given him a farewell kiss.

God bless you, dear boy,' sobbed the
mother, ' for all you have done for me
and mine.'

Oh ! Jack, Jack ! ' cried Alice, ' I
have never left off loving you ! How
I wish — '

All right, dear Mrs Leyton. All
right, Alice,' he replied cheerily. ' Keep
up your spirits ! We shall meet again
before long,' and so passed them into
the boat.

Oh, Jack ! come with me ! ' screamed

Alice, as she found herself rocking on
the deep, but the wind prevented her
voice from reaching his ear, as he
busied himself with handing the baby
into the arms of the shellbacks.

Poor little Winnie was as sorely frightened
as the rest, and loud in her lamentations.
Then came Miss Vere, pale
as a piece of Parian, but calm and collected
; and when her full complement
was made up, the lugger rigged craft
was pushed off, and headed for the
harbour.

The remaining hands then cut away
the lashings of the forward jolly-boat,
while others shipped the stanchions and
rigged tackles. The male passengers
had partly recovered from their scare by
this time, and followed the food example
of Vernon Blythe and the seamen,
in trying to launch the second
boat. It was a very dangerous task.
The seas had smashed up the smoke-room
as if it had been so much match-wood,

ripped up the main fiferail, and
torn away the after end of the house
amidships. The after companion-ladder
had also been swept away, and the
cabin could not be entered from the
quarter-deck.

The port boats were stove in, and
innumerable planks, sea-chests, buckets,
and blocks, were washing about the
deck, making an incessant clatter that
was audible even above the howling of
the gale.

Captain Robarts stood upon the poop,
his agonised and distorted face the very
picture of despair. One cannot judge of
a sailor's qualities until he is seen under
circumstances of difficulty or danger.
Then his noblest or his weakest points
alike stand out in bold relief A sailor
may traverse the ocean for years, and
never fall in with a mishap. It is easy
sailing to steer a craft in fine weather,
with plenty of sea room. But a heavy
blow in the Channel, with land on either

side, and a forest of shipping to keep
clear of, —-or a stiff breeze and a lee
shore, with an untrustworthy vessel —
these are the dangers which the mariner
has to look out for, and which will prove
him a man to be either esteemed or
despised.

Standing by Captain Robarts' side,
with an excited look in her eye, but no
fear upon her face, was Iris Harland —
the only woman left upon the sinking
ship. She had watched all the others
depart, she had even made a feint of
following them, but, after all, had kept
intentionally in the background, and let
the lifeboat go without her. But few-knew
that she remained behind. Vernon
Blythe fully believed she was on her
way to land. His first thought and inquiry
had been for her, and one of the
sailors had told him she was lowered
into the boat. And so he had returned
to his duty, with his mind at ease as far
as Iris was concerned. Yet she stood by

the skipper's side, watching his gallant
efforts to save the remainder of the passengers
and crew — proud to think that
(after a fashion) he belonged to her, and
resolved to stay by his side to the very
last, and die with him, if it was ordained
that he should die.

These two standing together — the old
experienced man, and the young untried
woman — were the exponents of a rule
which has but few exceptions, — that love
is strong as death. She, who was regarded
as the weaker vessel, made strong
by reason of her love, stood calm and
courageous in the midst of danger and
the sight of dissolution ; whilst he, who
had but himself and his own credit
to consider, caved in like a coward
under a responsibility too heavy for
him.

The jolly-boat was launched, and a
dozen passengers essayed to enter herat
once, pushing each other down in
their effort to be first, thinking only of

their own safety, and not caring a rush
for that of their neighbours.

One man, however, looked round before
he jumped into the boat, and catching
sight of Iris Harland on the poop,,
elbowed his way towards her with an exclamation
of horror. It was Will Farrell.

'Miss Douglas!' he cried excitedly,
why are you still here ? Come ! come !
before it is too late.'

But Iris did not stir.

Save yourself, Mr Farrell,' she replied
; * I shall remain behind until — until
the last.'

What ! to court death ? Don't you
know that before long the vessel must
be broken up, — that every moment maybe
your last ? Miss Douglas, for my
sake — for Maggie's sake — come with me.'

Do you think I have so much to live
for that I should fear death ? ' she answered,
smiling. * Pray, Mr Farrell, don't
waste time over me. I do not intend to-leave
until the last boat goes.'

But there may not be another. Every
minute renders it more difficult to launch
a boat.'

Then I shall die here,' said Iris, with
her soft eyes following every movement
of Vernon's form.

You have lost your senses. Do you
realise what you are saying '^. Mr Blythe,'
shouted Farrell lustily, ' make Miss Douglas
come in the boat with us.'

In a moment he was by her side, trembling
for her safety, when he had never
trembled for his own.

Oh, Iris, how is this ? I thought you
were in the lifeboat. How came you to
be left behind ? '

I stayed of my own free will, Vernie,'
she said sweetly; * I stayed to h^ with you.
Don't deny me this poor privilege. We
cannot live together, but if we are to die,
oh ! let me die by your side.'

'My darling!' he exclaimed; 'I will
guard your life with my own ! '

soh, Mr Blythe,' said Farrell, 'don't

let her throw that life away. Persuade
her — command her, to leave the vessel.
You know it cannot live much longer in
this sea.'

I know that our lives are in the hands
of God,' returned the young sailor simply,
and that there is as good a chance for
the next boat as for this. If Mrs Har-land
prefers to remain with me, I shall
not prevent her from doing so.'

Then God help you both. I must go,
or they will start without me ; ' and without
another word Will Farrell ran off to
take his place in the jolly-boat. As it
pushed off, he found himself sitting next
to Godfrey Harland. The men glared atone
another like savage beasts, but fear
for themselves had swallowed up for the
time being even their desire for revenge.
Only one boat now remained that could
be called seaworthy, and that was the
cutter — for the captain's gig could not
have lived in such a storm — and all hands
rushed towards the mainmast, and climbed

up by the crossjack braces, and along
the mizen stay, towards the frail craft.

By the aid of the bridge, Vernon Blythe
clambered again upon the poop, where
Iris was now standing alone, the captain
having staggered to the other side of the
vessel, so paralysed by the scene before
him as to be unable apparently either to
act or think.

Iris,' exclaimed Vernon, as he took
her in his arms for one mad moment,
Iris, my own darling! you have risked
your life to stay with me.'

But words failed him. His heart beat
high with joy, although the murderous
waves were leaping around them, as
though they longed to lick them both
down together to a cruel death. The
warm tears filled his yearning eyes, and
a strange choking sensation assailed his
powers of speech. After an effort at
self-control, he resumed, hastily and
authoritatively, —

Come, dearest ! this is the last boat

and you must be the first to enter her.
Hold your shawl closely over you, and I
will see you lowered into it.'

But, Vernie, soit will come, too ? ' she
asked anxiously.

I will come too. I will follow you.
I promise it,' he said.

Then he clasped her closely to him, and
pressed a passionate kiss upon her quivering
lips, before he turned to superintend
the lowering of the cutter. With hatchets
and sheath-knives the lashings were soon
hacked through, and with the maintop-mast
staysail halliards, they swung her
from her beds, and rove the patent
lowering gear.

When Iris and the few men left on
the fast-sinking Pandora were safely
aboard, Vernon Blythe went to find the
captain, and entreat him to accompany
them. Nothing more could be done for
the ill-fated vessel, and it was folly to
throw away life without reason. But on
reaching the hatch, he was startled by

hearing the report of a pistol, followed
by a heavy fall, and running to the foot
of the mizenmast, he discovered the body
of his unfortunate commander, shot through
the heart. The wretched man, not daring
to meet his employers, with the brand of
shame and failure on his brow, knowing
well that all the blame for the loss of the
Pandora would be laid upon his shoulders,
that his certificate would be suspended,
and he would stand before the authorities
a guilty man, had put an end to his
existence. The fact is, Captain Robarts
whole soul had been wrapped up in his
profession. His ship had been his wife,
his children, and his home, and without
her he felt he had nothing left to live
for. This unexpected fatal calamity,
which had dashed his brightest hopes
to the ground, in the very hour of their
fulfilment, had unsettled his mind, and
transformed him at once into an embittered,
broken-down man, who saw no
refuge before him except in death.

Vernon Blythe knelt down by the side
of his expiring commander, and, raising
his head upon his arm, caught his last
faint orders.

Here — here — in her'

What did he mean ? Did he wish to
be buried with his ship ?

In the Pandora, sir ? ' he asked. * Am
I to leave you here ? '

The dying man's eyes opened with a
last gleam of intelligence, and then closed
for ever.

There was no time to lose.

Dragging the now lifeless form to the
pilot-house, Vernon Blythe laid it on the
spare bunk, and murmuring the prayer,
God have mercy on him,' covered
the corpse with the house flag of
the vessel, which he took from the
locker, and hastily closing the door,
left the dead sailor in his desired resting-place.


As he jumped into the cutter, the men,
weary and dispirited as they had become,

Driven to Bay,

received their gallant young officer with
a cheer. But Vernon only thought of
one thing — that Iris was safe, and, for the
time being, they were together.

farrell's revenge.

^^^igNCE clear of the sinking vessel,
and the spars that floated about
her stern, the cutter went prosperously
on her way, but the jolly boat
had not been so fortunate. Overladen by
the rush of excited passengers who crowded
into her, she had but small chance in such
a gale, and when she was some little distance
from the Paitdo^^a, a huge wave took
her suddenly on the wrong quarter, and
she capsized with all her living freight into
the sea. In the dark, with the boisterous
water knocking the breath out of their
bodies, what chance had the unhappy passengers

of saving themselves. Indeed, the
immersion was so sudden and unexpected,
and they had been so thoroughly unnerved
before it occurred, that the majority of
them were sucked under, almost before
they knew that they were drowning.

But when the Pandora ran upon the
scarp of rocks at the north-east side of
the bay, her fore-topgallant mast had gone
over the side. The sea had soon carried
it away from the vessel, and when the
luckless jolly-boat capsized, it proved a
harbour of refuge for three men. After
a brief struggle, one of them, a sailor, byname
Jack Andy, managed to grasp a
rope, and pull himself towards the spar,
which he hugged with a grip of iron till
he had recovered his breath, then perceiving
a shipmate in distress, who was
attempting to reach it also, he tossed him
a line, and dragged Will Farrell from a
watery grave.

Slowly the mast drifted towards the land,
sometimes immersing the men under the

huge rollers, then bringing them up again,
only to prepare for another breathless
dive.

God help the rest of 'em,' observed
Jack Andy, in one of these short intervals,
for if ever we get to shore, they won't,
that's certain. They're all in kingdom
come by this time.'

They're just as well there as here,'
replied Farrell, with teeth chattering from
the cold. ' Hullo ! here's one of them,
though.'

The moon had just beamed upon the
water, and by her white light, he could
discern the features of a man who, though
greatly exhausted, was clinging to the heel
end of the spar.

It was Godfrey Harland.

As Farrell recognised him, the anxiety
for his own preservation seemed entirely
to disappear, and a cruel, vindictive spirit
pervaded his countenance. With the utmost
difficulty, he sidled along the mast
until he faced his enemy.

VOL. III. Q

Now, Horace Cain!' he exclaimed
loudly, ' we meet face to face, and my
time has come at last.'

What would you do to me ? ' cried
Harland, in a voice of terror.

Do to you ? Kill you ! as you killed
my love. Make you taste the same death
you meted out to her. We have no
weapons but our fast - failing strength,
but we stand on fair ground.'

Like all bullies, Harland was a coward,
and his last remnant of courage forsook
him now.

Oh, God ! ' he howled, ' spare me —
spare me ! You are mad ! '

I am mad,' replied Farrell, ' mad for
my revenge. You have wrested from me
all I cared for in this world, and laughed
at the pain you caused me. You have
taken away my good name, — trampled on
my reputation, — killed the only woman for
whom I cared. Yes, Godfrey Harland, I
could not probe it perhaps in open court,
but I know you to be the murderer of

Maggie Greet, and if the hangman is to
be cheated of his due, the sea shall do his
work for him. You have wounded my
heart till the last drop of human blood has
oozed from it, and changed me from
a man into a devil. Life is worth
nothing to me now, and I have sworn
not to die until I have avenged her
death.'

As he spoke, Farrell crept nearer and
nearer to his victim, and Harland could see
his long, lean fingers curling themselves
in readiness to clutch his throat as he
approached.

Oh, mercy ! mercy ! ' whined the cowering
wretch. ' Farrell, I repent. I will
make amends. Have mercy on me, for
Heaven's sake ! '

What mercy did you show to her '^, '
yelled Farrell. ' Doubtless my poor girl
cried to you in her terror, as you cry tome,
and how did you reply ? You cast
her into the arms of the murderous sea,
as may God give me strength to cast you

now. No, no ! the fight is a fair one, and
let the best man win.'

And throwing out his arm to grasp his
enemy, Farrell let go of the spar, and the
two men fell into the water together.

Jack Andy looked on from the other
end of the floating mast in sheer amazement
at the scene that passed before him.
The wind was too strong to permit him
to hear what they said to one another ;
but as the timber to which he clung was
carried each moment farther into the bay,
the water became calmer, and he was enabled
to keep his head clear of the rolling
billows, and to watch everything that
took place between his companions.

Why, how's this mates ! ' he exclaimed,
as he saw them relinquish their grasp of
the spar ; ' hold on, whatever you do !
for we've the chance of life afore us now
for the first time.'

But they were deaf to every voice but
that of their own evil passions. Directly
Jack Andy perceived their murderous

intentions, he edged towards them, with
the idea of calling them to reason, or
saving them by main force. But he was
too late. Godfrey Harland was the
stronger of the two, although he had been
taken somewhat unawares, and as soon
as he realised that Farrell was about to
strangle him, he prepared with all his
force to throw off his assailant.

But the younger man had fixed his
nails so firmly in his throat that he prevented
his using his arms with any effect,
and they both disappeared beneath a heavy
roller. When they rose up to the surface,
they were beyond Jack Andy's reach.
Harland's face had turned purple, and
the whites of his eyes were staring upwards
at the moon.

Die / ' hissed Farrell, in his own death
struggle, ' die, as she died, and be cursed
-fo7^ ever ! '

Down they went again beneath the
remorseless sea, who opened her arms
so willingly to receive them, locked together

In a fierce embrace of hate and
revenge ; and when Jack Andy looked
back for the last time, he saw the two
men, gripped together in death, sink
down to the bottom of the deep.

The lifeboat and the cutter both got
safe to land, and Mr Blythe and Mr
Sparkes, as the only two surviving officers
of the ill-fated Pandora, were bound
to return to England by the first steamer,
to report the particulars of the wreck to
their employers, and to stand their own
trial for the loss of the vessel — a trial
which resulted in so much credit to them
both, for their promptitude, coolness, and
courage, that they were immediately reappointed
as first and second officers of
the Hebe, one of the finest ships in the
possession of Messrs Stern & Stales.

And when Vernon Blythe was forced
to leave England again, which (luckily
for himself) did not take place for some
months afterwards, he had to say goodbye

to his wife as well as his mother.
For after that time of trial and distress,
he had felt that it was equally impossible
to leave Iris friendless and alone in New
Zealand, or to bring her home with him,
unless she were his wife. And so they
had been privately married within a few
days of landing, and the girl had felt as if
she had exchanged earth for heaven ever
since.

Do you know, Vernie, ' she said, as
she stood by the side of her handsome
young husband in the window of the
Southsea cottage, on the very day he
brought home the news of his appointment
to the Hebe — ' do you know that I
sometimes think I must have died in the
wreck of the Pandora, and this is quite
another woman who stands beside you
now.'

I am very glad it is not another
woman, Iris,' he answered, as he stooped
to kiss her.

But the world is all so changed for me.

I feel as if I had passed beyond every
trouble, and landed in a haven of peace.
Even my sorrow at parting with you,
darling,' said Iris, with her bright eyes
filled with tears, ' is tempered by knowing
that your dear mother loves me, and that
it is a comfort both to you and her that I
should be her daughter whilst you are
away. But, oh, you will come back tome,
Vernie ! ' she added, in a sudden
burst of grief, ' you will come back tome
! '

I will come back to you,' he said,
sweetly and solemnly, as he folded her
in his arms. ' We are each other's, dearest,
for life or death. Whether it be in
this world or the next must be decided
by a wiser love than ours, but so long as
my soul exists, I will come back to you'

THE END.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

3 0112 049087197
