By Ji<E/\iJTrio(\ op

My Sister the Actress

w.

SUJ3SCR

n

AND AT
NOVELS ARE Issued

smith & soil's
JON LIBRARY

RAND, LONDON "

■!ffilVED rROM^BSCR,BERS ,N SETS ONLY

FOR Subscribers

For SIX " :: \\l" i^ ^

For TWELVE ;. " - .- 1 15 \\ Vl l

" 3 5 5

'SKS^^U'-^-

OF Thou

N IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS


L475c

V.I

VOL. I.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/crownofshamenove01lean

A NO VE L,

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR OF

love's conflict,' *my sister the actress,'

ETC. ETC.

I/V THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C

1888.

\ All rights reserved?

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CONTENTS.

^

LO

CHAPTER I [

^ CHAPTER II 29

CHAPTER III 56

CHAPTER IV 83

CHAPTER V no

CHAPTER VI. . 139

CHAPTER VII. . 166

CHAPTER VIII. . . . 204

Nov ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of
ARMY SOCIETY ; or, Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange
Winter. Author of ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also picture
boards, 2S,

A ho now ready, in cloth gilt, 35. dd. each.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By John

Strange Winter. Also picture boards, 2s.
IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart.

THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. By Edward Renard.

STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing

O't.'
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Renard,
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron.
A DEVOUT LOVER. By the same Author.

TWILIGHT TALES. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Illustrated.
SHE CAME BETWEEN. By Mrs Alexander Eraser.
THE CRUSADE OF ' THE EXCELSIOR.' By Bret Harte.
A REAL GOOD THING. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
CURB AND SNAFFLE. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
DREAM FACES. By the Hon. Mrs Fetherstonhaugh.
A SIEGE BABY. By John Strange Winter.
MONA'S CHOICE. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing O't.'

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

CHAPTER I,

//Sll^pT was the close of the hot
season in San Diego, and the
thunderous clouds that hung
over the island rendered the atmosphere
still more oppressive. Liz, the Doctor's
daughter, stood at the open door of their
leaf-thatched bungalow, gazing out into
the starless night, and wondering when
the rain would come, to relieve the intense

VOL. I. A

heat and disseminate the sickness that was
so rapidly thinning the population. The
stillness was so unbroken that one might
almost be said to feel it. Not a breath
of air stirred the light feathery branches
of the bamboo, not even the chirp of a
solitary insect could be distinguished from
their covert in the long grass, nor a note
from the songsters that crowded the surrounding
woods. The trailing creepers
that hung like a gorgeous eastern canopy
of crimson and purple and orange from
the roof of the verandah, brushed their
blossoms against her face, as she thrust
it into the night, but they brought no
sense of refreshment with them. Liz
felt stifled for want of air, as she
withdrew from the verandah, and reentered
the bungalow, with a deep-drawn
sigh. But the sigh was for others.
She was not a woman to make otherwise

than lightly of her own pain or
inconvenience. To witness suffering or
distress, and be unable to relieve it,
that was the great drawback of life
to Elizabeth Fellows. She was not a
girl, and the existence she led had
tended to make her older than her
age. She was five - and - twenty, and
ever since she was a little child she
had been motherless, and brought upto
depend upon herself, and to minister
to others rather than be ministered to.
Her father, Dr Fellows, was generally
considered to be a reserved, morose, and
rather disagreeable man : but Liz knew
otherwise. She was his only child, and
ever since she could remember they
two had lived together, and alone, and
he had been both mother and father
to her. He was not lively and talkative,
even to Liz — but she had always felt that

he was unhappy, though something in his
manner had forbidden her inquiring the
cause of his reticence and melancholy. But
he had never said an unkind word to her.
Gravely and affectionately he had brought
his daughter up to help him in his work,
and Liz, who possessed an active, clever
brain and a large amount of courage, had
taken an immense interest in the science
of medicine and surgery, and knew almost
as much about it as himself. Dr Fellows
left all the simple cases in his daughter's
hands, and for a long time past she had
been almost worshipped amongst the negro
population of San Diego, as a species of
white angel who came to their women
and their children with healing in her
hands. And both the Doctor and his
daughter had had plenty of work todo
during the last few months. Fever
was reigning paramount in San Diego.

Both Europeans and natives had been
falling around them Hke rotten sheep ;
and with the epidemic had come a murrain
on the rice-fields and sugar-cane plantations,
so that the people had to contend
with starvation as well as disease ; and
awful rumours of mutiny and insurrection
had commenced to make the residents
and planters feel alarmed. Inside the
Doctor's cottage were grouped some score
of negresses, most of them with infants
in their arms. Their work was over for
the day, and this was the hour when
they came to Liz to have their bottles
refilled with medicines, and to show her
what progress their wailing little ones
had made.

As she stepped back amongst them, her
face assumed an expression of pity and
sympathy for their distress, that did indeed
make her look like an angel of goodness.

She was not a beautiful woman —
far from it — but it is not, as a rule, the
most beautiful faces that are the most
comforting to look upon in a time of difficulty
or danger.

Liz had a tall, well-developed figure,
which her plain print dress showed off
to perfection. Her skin was clear, and
soft, and white, and her abundant fair
hair was tucked smoothly away behind
her ears, and twisted into a knot at
the back of her head. Her grey eyes
beamed with a tender, kindly light, that
had no power to conceal her feelings,
and her firm, well-shaped mouth showed
firmness and decision. In fact, she was
a typical English woman, with rather a
majestic bearing about her, as if she
knew her power and rejoiced in it. But,
above all, she was a woman to love
and trust in, — one who would never tell

a lie nor betray a friend, and yet who,
once convinced that her own trust had
been betrayed, would stamp the image
of the offender from her heart, if she
died under the process. As the negresses
caught sight of her again, they were
startled to see the tears upon her
cheeks, hardly believing they were shed
for them.

Missy feeling ill .^ ' ' Missy like a
little wine ? ' ' I go calling Massa to see
Missy ? '

No ! No ! What are you talking
about ? I am as well as possible ! ' cried
Liz, hastily brushing her tears away. ' I
was only thinking.'

Ah, Missy,' said one poor mother, regarding
an attenuated morsel of humanity
which lay just breathing and no more
across her lap, ' I thinking' my little
Sambo never run about again ! '

Don't lose heart, Christie,' replied Liz,
in her grave, sweet voice, as she knelt
down and laid her hand on the baby's
forehead. ' He is very weak, poor little
fellow, but so long as he can eat, there is
hope for him. I will change his medicine,
and perhaps we shall have the rain by
tomorrow. A few cool nights would
set him up again.'

Ah ! Missy very good to say so, but
we shall have plenty more weeks hot
weather yet. Poor little Sambo underground
before the rain sets in.'

And my poor girl can't stand no ways ! '
cried another ; ' and Rosa's boy die this
afternoon.'

Oh, what can I do — what can I do
for you all ? ' exclaimed Liz, with her
hands to her head.

At this moment, the group in the Doctor's
bungalow was augmented by a fresh

arrival. This was Rosa, the yellow girl,
who rushed in like a whirlwind, with her
dead child in her arms. Liz had taken an
interest in this girl, but it was one which
Rosa strongly resented. Her child was
born out of wedlock, and the gentle remonstrances
on her conduct which the
Doctor's daughter had urged upon her, had
been taken by the uneducated creature as
an insult rather than a kindness. Her
poor little dead Carlo had been tended
as carefully as any of Liz's other
patients, but the bereaved mother chose
to think it otherwise, as she burst in
upon them.

He is dead!' she cried frantically, as
she almost flung the body upon the table.
And now, perhaps you will be satisfied,
Miss Lizzy. Now you will be glad to
think there is one bastard child less on my
massa's plantation, and that I have nothing

nothing left to remind me of my lover

who has sailed away to America

Oh, Rosa ! how can you so misjudge
me ? ' said Liz, as she put one arm round
the weeping girl. But Rosa flung it off.

It is true ! ' she exclaimed fiercely ;
you said he had better never have been
born, and now you have taken no trouble
to keep him in this world. I suppose you
thought it would be a right punishment
for my sin. But I hate you— and the
punishment shall come back on your own
head ! I hope I shall live to see the
day when you shall weep as I weep,
and have nothing left you but the burden
of the shame.'

Rosa, you are not yourself! You do
not know what you are saying,' replied
Lizzy calmly. * It is God Who has taken
your baby to Himself, and neither I nor
any one could have kept him here. Try

and think of it like that, Rosa. Think
of little Carlo, happy and well for ever
in the gardens of heaven, and you
will not speak so wildly and bitterly

again.

I shall ! I shall ! ' cried the girl, in the
same tone, as she seized the body again
and strained it in her arms ; ' and I shall
never feel satisfied, Missy Liz, till you
suffer as I have done.'

And with that she rushed out again into
the darkness.

Liz leant against the table, and trembled.
These were the things that had the power
to upset her. To toil for these people
early and late ; to be at their beck and
call whenever they chose to summons
her ; to lie awake at night thinking of
the best means to relieve their trouble,
and then to meet with ingratitude and
reproaches. It did indeed seem hard!

But it did not make her voice less
sweet whilst addressing the others. The
room in which they were assembled
was long and narrow — the only sitting-room
in the bungalow — and furnished
with severe simplicity. The matted floor,
the cane chairs, and plain unvarnished
table, all told of a life of labour rather
than of luxury, and except for Liz
Fellows' desk and workbox, and a few
books which lay scattered about, it contained
few traces of occupation. Yet
it was the very absence of such things
that proved the inmates of the cottage
were too busy to think of much beyond
their profession. A large cupboard, with
a window in it, at the end of the apartment,
served as a surgery, and there Liz
soon turned to mix the febrifuges and
tonics required by her patients. As she
did so, she was greeted by a newcomer.

Hullo! Miss Fellows, as busy as
usual, I suppose, and no time even to
bid a poor mariner welcome.'

Liz turned at the sound of the cheery
voice, with her welcome ready in her
eyes.

'Oh, Captain N orris! Are you back
again already '^. When did you arrive .^ '

The stranger's face fell.

'back again already! And I've been
absent from San Diego for at least six
months, and thinking they felt like six
years ! When did I arrive ? Why, this
evening ! The 'trevelyan" dropped anchor
exactly at six o'clock, and directly I could
get away, I came up to see you.'

It is very good of you, and my father
will be delighted to see you. I expect
him in every minute. Sit down. Captain
Norris, whilst I mix the medicines for
these poor women, who are anxious to

get to their homes again, and then I will

hear all your news.'

She looked so cool and collected as,
having dismissed her patients, she drew
a chair to the table and sat down beside
him, that Captain Norris did not know
where to begin. He was a fine handsome
young man, with dark eyes and
hair ; the skipper of a merchant vessel,
and every inch a sailor ; and he was very
much in love with Lizzie Fellows. He
carried several neatly tied up parcels in
his hands, but he was too nervous to
allude to them at once.

I am sorry to find you have fever
in the island,' he said, by way of a commencement.


Oh, it is terrible — a regular plague ! '
replied Lizzie ; ' and though my father
has worked early and late amongst the
negroes, we have lost patients by the

dozen. It is sickening to hear of the
numbers of deaths, and to witness
the trouble ; — enough to break one's
heart.'

But you keep well ? ' he inquired
anxiously.

Oh, yes ! Nothing ever ails me !
I have too much to do, and no time to
be ill. But I am very sad, and somewhat
disheartened

Mr Courtney must have experienced
a great loss.'

'Yes! His plantation is sadly thinned,
but the deaths have been chiefly amongst
the children. Mr Courtney is very good
to them, and spares no expense to provide
them with comforts. It is no one's
fault. It is the will of God, and we
must wait patiently till He removes the
scourge. But there is great distress, and
even starvation, amongst the native population

In other parts of the island, and
some degree of insubordination.'

'And how is Mr Courtney's beautiful
daughter ? '

Maraquita ! She is not ill, but she
has been very languid lately, which we
attribute to the heat. But I have not
seen so much of her during the last few
months. I suppose she is too gay to
have any time to spare for us.'

And Henri de Courcelles ! Is he still
the overseer at Beauregard ? ' demanded
Captain Norris, after a short pause.

Liz coloured.

Yes ! Why should he not be so ? Mr
Courtney has every trust and confidence
in him.'

So much the worse, I think, for Mr
Courtney.'

She fired up directly.

Captain Norris, you have no right to

make such an insinuation ! What do you
know against Monsieur de Courcelles ?
It is unworthy of you to try and set his
friends against him, behind his back.'

I am sorry if you think so, Miss
Fellows ; I hoped that you might not be
so intimate with De Courcelles as you
used to be. But let us talk of something
else. How is your father ? '

Much the same as usual. Captain
Norris. Father is never very lively, as
you know. Sometimes I fancy this
climate must disagree with him, he is so
silent and depressed ; but he has always
been the same, and he strenuously denies
any feeling of illness.'

'It is a dull life that you lead here with
him, Liz.'

'Don't say that! A useful life can never
be dull, and I have many pleasures beside.'

But you would like to see a little more

VOL. I. B

of the world, would you not ? You would
like to visit your native country, England,
and make the acquaintance of your relations
? '

Liz looked at him wistfully.

I don't think I should, at least under
present circumstances. I am afraid the
pain of leaving San Diego, and all those
whom I have known from childhood,
would out-balance the pleasure of seeing
fresh people and places. I have known
no other home than San Diego, Captain
Norris, and I don't think I could bear to
leave the — the plantation.'

He did not answer her, but commenced,
somewhat nervously, to undo the packages
he held. As their contents came to view,
Liz saw spread before her on the table
a handsome morocco desk, a photographic
album, and a complete set of silver ornaments.


Oh, how beautiful ! ' she could not help
exclaiming.

They are for you said her companion
brusquely ; ' I brought them from England
expressly for you.'

For 7iie ! ' repeated Liz wonderingly.
Oh, Captain N orris, how very good it
is of you ! Whatever made you think of
me ? '

He seized the hand which was feelings
the soft texture of the desk.

I do not know, I cannot tell you, but
It is the truth, Liz, that wherever I am, I
always think of you. All the time that
I have been away, your face and the
sound of your voice has haunted me, and
prevented my being charmed by any other
woman. I love you as I have never
loved before — as I never shall love again,
because I shall never meet another woman
so worthy of my love and my esteem.'

Oh, Captain N orris, pray don't talk
to me like that ! You are mistaken ; I am
not the good woman you take me for.'

I must talk, and you must hear me to
the end, Liz ! I wanted to say all this
to you last time I was in San Diego, buta
grave doubt prevented me. But now
I have come back to find you free, and
I cannot hold my tongue any longer. I
am not a boy, to be uncertain of my
feelings. I am a man and my own
master, and making a sufficient income to
keep you in comfort. Be my wife, Liz ;
I won't ask you to marry in a hurry, but
promise you will be my wife some day,
and I will summon up all the patience I
possess, and live on the hope of the
future.'

I cannot,' she said, in a low voice.

You cannot / ' he echoed ; ' and why ? '

I don't think you should ask me. I

don't think you have the right to ask me.

But It Is Impossible. I shall never be

your wife.'

Does any one stand between us ? *

Liz was silent. She would not tell the

truth, and she could not tell a lie. Captain

Norris turned on her almost fiercely in his

keen disappointment.

There does,' he exclaimed. ' I know it,
without your speaking, and I know who it
is into the bargain, — the same man who
drove me from San Diego last time
without speaking, — Henri de Courcelles.'

You have no rl^ht to make the assertion,
without authority,' retorted Liz
Fellows ; ' but since you have done so, I
will not stoop to deny it. You are right ;
I am engaged to be married to Monsieur
de Courcelles, but the fact is not generally
known, and so I trust you will respect
my confidence.'

Hugh Norris dropped his head upon his
hands.

Engaged,' he murmured, ' really and
truly engaged ! M)^ God ! why did I not
have the courage to speak before ? '

His despair roused her compassion. She
drew nearer, and laid her hand upon his
shoulder.

Indeed, it would have been of no use,
dear friend,' she said gently ; ' Henri and
I have made up our minds upon this
matter for some time past, and should have
been married long ago, had his position
been a little better assured.'

Oh, of course, I stand no chance
against him!' replied Captain Norris bitterly.
Monsieur de Courcelles, with his handsome
face, and dandy dress, galloping
about the plantation on his switch-tailed
mustang, must needs carry everything
before him. But he is not true to you,

A Crown of Shame. 23

Liz, all the same — and sooner or later
you will find it out. If he is engaged to
be married to you, he is a scoundrel, for he
spends half his time at the great house making
love to the planter's pretty daughter

'How dare you say so?' cried Liz,
springing from her chair, and standing
before him with her face all aflame. ' What
right have you to take away my lover's
character before me } '

She had been too bashful to call him by
that name before, but now that she heard
him (as she thought) so cruelly maligned,
she felt he needed the confession of her
love for a protection against his slanderers.

Don't be angry with me, Liz ! don't
be offended, but I feel I must tell you the
truth, even at the risk of never speaking
to you again. De Courcelles is not worthy
of you. Every one sees it but yourself.
His attentions to Maraquita Courtney

are the common talk of the town, and
I heard bets passing pretty freely this
evening as to whether the planter would
ever countenance his impudent pretensions
to her hand.'

It is not true,' repeated Liz, though
her face had turned very pale ; ' but if it
were, I know no reason why Mr Courtney
should object to Henri as a son-in-law.'

You are wilfully blind to the fact then
that he has black blood in his veins.'

Liz flushed crimson. How impossible
it seems, under the most favourable circumstances,
completely to overcome the
natural prejudice against the mixture of
blood ; but she was true to her colours.

I know more about him than you can
tell me, Captain Norris! I know that his
father was French and his mother a Spanish
Creole. But it makes no difference to me.
If he were all black, he is the man / love,

and I will not stand by quietly and hear
him defamed.*

Who defamed him, Miss Fellows ? I
merely stated the general opinion as to
De Courcelles' chances of winning Miss
Courtney, though whether he succeeds or
not Is a matter of the most perfect indifference
to me. But with regard to yourself,
it is a different matter. I may be strong
enough to bear my own disappointment,
but I will not see you throw your happiness
away without making an effort to
save you. Oh, Liz, my darling,' cried
Hugh Norris, forgetting himself in his
anxiety for her, ' throw this man over,
for Heaven's sake, or you will rue it your
whole life long ! '

Your advice has somewhat lost its
effect from what preceded it,' replied Liz
coldly, ' and I must request you to spare
it me in the future, Captain Norris. I

also am old enough to know my own
mind, and my friends from my enemies.
I am very sorry that you came here tonight
— still more so that you should have
presumed to speak as you have done. I
should have liked to keep you as a friend,
but you have made that impossible.
Please to relieve me of your presence, and
let me quit the room until you are gone.'

Oh, I will go — sharp enough ! ' said
Captain N orris, as he rose from his chair
and walked towards the door. ' You shall
not ask me to leave you twice, Liz.'

Stay ! ' cried the girl impetuously.
'You have forgotten your presents. Take
them with you.'

Won't you even keep the poor things
I have carried so far for you .^ ' he asked
her humbly.

Keep them ! ' she echoed scornfully.
Keep a reminder always before me of

the man who maligned my dearest friend
tome? What do you take me for ? No! If
you have any wish left that I should forget
this evening, and the pain you have caused
me, take your presents away with you

You set me a humbling task,' said
Hugh N orris, as he collected his despised
gifts and repacked them in their papers.
But I will obey you. I would rather
throw them into the swamp, than leave
them here to annoy you. Only remember,
Liz, that / love you, and that when the day
comes (as it will come) when your other
lover forsakes you, I will prove what I say.'

He went then without another word,
though as he turned his eyes towards her
for a farewell look, Liz saw a misty light
beaming in them, which did not make her
feel as triumphant as she thought she
should have done to have gained the
victory over him.

She was still standing by the table
where he had left her, feeling hot and
cold by turns, as she pondered over the
rumour he had repeated, when a hasty
footstep passed over the threshold, and
Henri de Courcelles stood before her.

Before she turned her head to
greet him, Liz knew who had
entered the bungalow. The
marvellous instinct of love made her feel
his presence, before she perceived it, and
this instinct, common to all human nature,
was deeply engrafted in that of Liz Fellows.
She had a heart that not only wound
itself round that of those she loved but
entered into it, and made its home there,
and she loved Henri de Courcelles withall
the strength and passion of which she

was capable. Their attachment had commenced
more than a year before, when she
and her father had brought De Courcelles
through a dangerous illness, and Liz had
nursed him into convalescence with the
tenderest care, and the young man had
rewarded her devotion with a confession
of love, which she believed to be as genuine
as her own. Before he rose from his
bed of sickness Henri de Courcelles had
pledged himself to marry Liz Fellows, and
at the time perhaps had honestly wished
to do so. But there were obstacles in the
way of an immediate union, and the engagement
had never been publicly announced.
Henri de Courcelles was a man
whose personal appearance would have
proved sufficient justification in most
women's eyes for Liz's excessive love for
him. From his French father he had
inherited a strength of limb and muscle,

and a symmetry of proportion, which is not
common amongst tropical nations, whilst
his beautiful Creole mother had given him
her Spanish eyes and colouring, with a
little trace — though too slight to be offensive
of her African blood. Taken altogether,
Henri de Courcelles was a very handsome
and athletic young fellow, and with an
easy grace about his bearing and mode
of expressing himself that made him very
fascinating. That his visits to her father's
bungalow had been shorter and less frequent
of late had never struck Liz as remarkable
until Captain Norris had drawn
her attention to the probable reason.

She was not of a jealous temperament,
and where we love and fear to lose, we will
hatch up any excuse to lull our doubts to
rest, sooner than wrong the creature on
whom all our hopes are fixed. Besides,
Liz was too busy a woman to spend

her days sighing over an absent lover.
When she was not mixing and dispensing
medicines, or visiting her patients, or reading
the medical works recommended by
her father, she had her household affairs
to look after, or needlework to do, and
oftener longed for more time than for less.
And De Courcelles was a busy man also.
She would hardly have liked him if he
had not been so. He was overseer on the
coffee plantation of the rich planter Mr
Courtney, on whose estate Dr Fellows
lived, and had the complete control and
surveillance of the negro population. It
made Liz's heart grieve sometimes to
hear the coolies complain of his harshness
and severity. She did not believe in her
heart that Henri could be unjust to anyone
and thought the negroes only wished
to escape the punishments they had incurred
— still she could not help wishing,

with a sigh, that he had the power to
control them without punishment. But
of course he could not be in the wrong —
not entirely, that is to say. As she recognised
his footstep on the present occasion,
and all the painful doubt she was
experiencing fled like magic before the
pleasure of his presence, any one with a
knowledge of physiognomy could have
read how the woman loved him. Her
pale face flushed with expectation — her
quiet eyes glowed with fire — her whole
frame trembled in acknowledgment of the
man's supremacy over her. But as he
advanced to the centre of the room and
she could discern his features, Liz started
with concern.

Henri! what is the matter? Are you

ill?'

111 ! No,' he answered pettishly, as he
flung himself into a chair. ' You are so

VOL. I. C

mixed up with your pills and potions, Liz,
that you can never imagine any other
cause for a man's moods than illness. I'm
right enough. What should ail me .^ '

Ah ! this dreadful fever, Henri. Forgive
me if I am nervous for the safety of
you and all whom I love. It strikes down
its victims like a plague, and its terrible
rapidity frightens me. It makes one feel
so helpless. Sometimes it takes but a few
hours to carry off its victims. I have been
at three deathbeds to-day. It is enough
to make a woman tremble at the least
symptom of illness in her own people.
And the epidemic seems to be on the
increase. Nothing that my father does
seems to stop it.'

Well, try and find some livelier topic
of conversation, Liz, for mercy's sake. It's
enough to give any fellow the blues to hear
you talk. I wish to goodness you followed

some other calling, or rather none at all ;
but since it is unavoidable, spare me the
nauseous details. I have enough worries
of my own without discussing your professional
difficulties.'

Her sympathy was roused at once.

What worries, dear ? Tell me of them.
Can I do nothing to help you out of them?'

He coloured slightly under his dark skin
as he stretched himself and said, —

Nothing — nothing. They are matters
of a purely private nature. But you know
how I detest the coloured people, Liz. It
is sufficiently annoying to me to be employed
amongst the brutes all day long,
without having to listen to a story of their
grievances when my work is over. I come
here for rest, not to talk about losers.'

Yes, I know, Henri, and It makes me
happy to hear you say that you expect to
find rest with me. But if you saw them

suffer as I do, you could not fail to feel for
them. Have you been very busy lately ? '

Pretty well. Why do you ask ? '

Because it is a week since you have
been at the cottage.'

You must be mistaken. I have called
here several times when you were out.
There's no finding you at home nowadays,
Liz.'

I have been very much occupied, I
know,' she answered quietly, ' but not so
much so as to make me forget that you
have not been here, Henri.'

The remembrance of what Captain Norris
had repeated to her recurred to her mind,
and on the spur of the moment she determined
to learn the truth.

You have been a great deal at the
White House, have you not?' she continued.


He flushed again, and turned uneasily

In his chair, so as to avoid the straightforward
glance of her eyes.

Why do you ask me that question ? I
am at the White House every morning
with my employer. It is part of my business
to go there.'

I don't mean at Mr Courtney's office,
Henri. I meant that you are a great deal
with Mrs Courtney and Maraquita — at
least I have been told so.'

I am much obliged to whoever was kind
enough to interest himself in my private
affairs. Am I indebted to your old flame
Captain N orris for spreading untruths about
me ? I met him skulking round the bungalow
as I came along this evening.'

Captain N orris does not skulk', replied
Liz quickly. * He has no need to do so.
Neither is he a " flame " of mine, and you
ought to know me better than to say so,
Henri.'

'Well, it looks like it, when you take
up the cudgels so warmly in his defence.
However, we'll let that drop. What has
he been telling you against me ? '

Nothing — or at least nothing of his own
accord. He only repeated the common
rumour — that you are a great deal in the
society of Maraquita, and that — that people
are talking about it.'

She stood for a few moments after that,
expecting to hear an indignant denial from
his lips, but De Courcelles was silent.

Henri,' she continued softly, turning a
very pale face towards him, 'it is not t7^2ce?'

'What is not true?' he inquired brusquely.

That — that you are tired of me, and
making love to Maraquita Courtney.'

Of course it isn't true ; it's a d — d lie,
and the next time I meet that N orris, I'll
break every bone in his body for saying so.'

She was all penitence for having suspected

his fidelity In a moment. She
flung herself on her knees beside his
chair, and threw one arm around his
shoulders.

Oh, Henri ! forgive me for having repeated
such a slander, but It hurt me so, I
couldn't keep It to myself. But It was not
Captain Norris's fault. He only told me
what he had heard In the town. He did
not think, perhaps, that It was of so much
consequence to me. And I know that you
are very Intimate at the White House ;
more so even than I am.'

Well, Mrs Courtney Is very civil to me,
and I can hardly refuse her hospitality, on
the plea that I am engaged to be married,
can I ? '

'No! No! of course not. But still —
though I am sure that you are true to descried
the woman, fighting against her own
horrible suspicions (for why should you

have asked me to marry you, unless you
loved me ?) still, Maraquita is very lovely,
and she likes you, Henri, I am certain
of that. No ! don't interrupt me ! Let
me say all I have to say to the end, and
then perhaps I shall forget it. You see,
dear, I — I am not beautiful (how I
wish, for yo2ir Sake, that I were), and there
is nothing in me worthy of your affection,
except my love ! And I have seen something
of men in my lifetime, and I can
understand something of their temptations.
Quita has been a flirt from a little child.
Who should know it better than myself,
who have been like a sister to her from
her birth ? I was only five years old
when my father brought me to live at
Beauregard, and Quita was not born
for two years after that. I remember so
well the first visit I paid to the White
House to see the wonderful new baby, and

how proud I was when old Jessica let me
hold her in my arms — '

Stop ! ' exclaimed De Courcelles authoritatively.
' What has all this to do with
me ? I have no interest in these details
about Miss Courtney's birth

I only mentioned it to show you how
well I must know Maraquita's character.
We have grown up together, Henri, and
I can almost read her thoughts. She likes
you more than a friend, and when I heard
the rumours about you, I felt as if I could
have no chance against her.'

Henri de Courcelles had risen from his
seat during her last words, almost shaking
off her caressing hand in his impatience,
and stood beside her, white and angry.

I will hear no more of this nonsense,'
he cried ; * I have told you already it is
a lie, and you insult me by repeating it.
Miss Courtney and I are nothing to each

other, and It will ruin me with my employer
if this absurd report gains ground. I shall
get kicked out of Beauregard for nothing
at all, and then all chance of our marriage
will be at an end, and I shall probably
have to leave San Diego.'

It will not gain ground through my
means, and I am only too glad to know
that It Is not true,' replied Liz, rising to
her feet also.

She would have liked him to have put
his arms round her and assured her with a
kiss it was all an error, but she was too
proud to show the blank disappointment
that crept over her. Henri had denied
the scandal, and she was bound to believe
him, but still she was not satisfied, though
she could hardly have given a reason
for it.

Of course — of course — I knew It was
not true,' she repeated, in a quivering voice,

as she tried to persuade herself that all was
right between them. ' For once you promised
me — do you remember it, Henri ? —
that if any one ever came between us, you
would let me know, so that at animate I
should retain your confidence, even if I
lost your love.'

You harp so much on the question of
losing my love,' he replied angrily, ' that
you make me think you have no further
use for it.'

Liz looked bewildered.

Oh ! what have I said to make you
speak like that ? ' she exclaimed. ' When
have I let you think that I was weary of
you — we who have agreed to pass our
lives together ? Oh, Henri ! is it my
fault ? Has this misunderstanding sprung
from my apparent coldness } If so — forgive
me ! For indeed — indeed — ' continued
Liz earnestly — all her reticence

vanishing before the fear of offending her
lover, ' I am not cold. I have so much
important work to do, and serious things
to think of, that I am afraid sometimes tolet
my thoughts dwell too much on our
affection, lest I should not keep my mind
clear. But that is not indifference. It Is
too much love,' she said, in a faltering
voice.

I have never doubted your love,' replied
De Courcelles, softened by the sound
of her tearful voice, ' and I don't want you
to doubt mine, and especially not to listen
to tales that have no foundation, and are
calculated to Injure my reputation. Mara-quite
Courtney Is nothing to me, and never
has been, and never will be. You may
take my word for that ! '

Will you swear it ? ' cried Liz eagerly.
He hesitated a moment, and then he

said, —

Yes, I swear it by the God Who made
us both ! '

The woman dropped down into her chair
again, and burst into a flood of hysterical
tears.

Oh ! I feU it ! I knew it ! ' she exclaimed.
* I have been so happy in the
possession of your love. I was sure that
Heaven could not be so cruel as to take it
away from me.'

The young man crossed over to her, and
laid his hand upon her bent head.

'No! no!' he said soothingly. 'No
one shall take it away. You are not like
yourself to-night, Liz. Where is all your
courage gone to ? You, who can stand
by quietly and see an operation performed,
or a patient die, who are the coolest and
most collected woman I have ever met
with. Why ! I don't know you in this
new character.'

I have no courage where you are concerned,'
she answered passionately, as she
looked up and met the glance of his dark
eyes. ' You are my life, Henri, and everything
that is best in me, would die without
you

He winced a little as she spoke, but he
professed to laugh at her vehemence.

It will not be my fault if you are ever
put to the test, Liz. How often have I
told you that my life belongs to you, since,
without your skill and care, I should have
lost it. Come, kiss me, and forget what
has passed between us. It is all the fault
of that meddling fellow Norris. I wish he
had been farther before he made mischief
between us.'

No one has the power to make mischief
between us,' said Liz, smiling through her
tears. * I am quite happy again now, and
am only sorry my foolish jealousy should

have betrayed me into making such a
scene. And, to prove it, let us talk of
Ouita, Henri. I was wanting to see you,
just to ask after her.'

Can't we find some pleasant topic of
conversation, Liz ? Besides, you know
more of Miss Courtney than I could tell
sou.'

No ! That is just where it is. I have
hardly seen anything of her since the fever
broke out. Father is not quite certain
whether it is contagious or not, and whilst
there is a doubt, he thinks it better I
should keep away from the White House.
But old Jessica says that Quita is not
looking at all well, and she is afraid there
is something serious the matter with her.'

De Courcelles fired up again directly.

Curse the old fool ! What business
is it of hers how she looks ! It's this
infernal tittle - tattle from house to

house, that makes all the mischief in the

world.'

Oh, Henri ! You forget Jessica was

Quita's nurse. Why, she loves her like

her own child, and she says she has been

very depressed lately, and is often crying.

What should make her cry, Henri 1 Has

she any trouble ? '

Don't ask me ! How should I know ? '
he answered roughly. ' Miss Courtney is
not likely to confide her troubles to her
father's overseer. But I see no difference
in her.'

Perhaps it is only Jessica's anxiety,'
said Liz thoughtfully. ' But I am always
dreaming of this fever, and Maraquita is
too delicate to battle against it. I wish
Mr Courtney would send her out of the
island until it is dispersed.'

You don't think of going yourself,
though.'

/ / Oh, dear no ! I should be a
coward to run away from these poor
people when I can be of use to them.
But Maraquita is different. She has nothing
to do but to think of the trouble
and brood over it, and she is easily-alarmed.
She would be much better
away.'

I suppose if her parents thought so
they would send her. They have sufficient
money to do anything. But we
have discussed the subject enough, Liz,
and I am weary of it. Where is your
father } '

Here he is,' replied Liz, in a brisk and
cheerful tone, as Dr Fellows entered the
bungalow.

Whatever her own doubts and imaginings,
she was always cheerful before her
father, for he seemed to carry a weight
through life that would break him down,

VOL. I. D

unless sustained by his daughter's strength

of mind.

Dr Fellows was a man of about fifty
years of age, but he looked older. His
figure was bent and attenuated, his hair
nearly white, his features lined with care
and yellow from ill-health. No one to
see them together could have believed
him to be the father of the healthy and
finely-formed young woman who advanced
to meet him. The frank, ingenuous expression
on his daughter's face contrasted
pleasantly with his reserved and somewhat
morose physiognomy. He hardly smiled
as she took his broad-brimmed Panama
hat and stick from him, and kissed him
on the forehead. The doctor was dressed
in a complete suit of white nankeen, and
his face was scarcely less white than his
clothes.

You look very tired, father ! ' exclaimed

Liz. ' Have you been far from the plantation
to-night, and are there any fresh
cases ? '

I walked to the other side of Shanty
Hill, to see a child of Cathy Jones, but
I was too late. The fever had set in with
convulsions, and it was dead before I
arrived. And poor old Ben is gone too,
Liz ; Mr Nathan's faithful old servant.
I would have given all I am worth to
save him, but I failed to do so. I think
my right hand must have lost its cunning,'
said the Doctor, in a tone of deep
depression.

'No, no! father! It is nothing of the
sort. You are overtired with your constant
work, or you would not think of such
nonsense. Let me mix you a white wine
sherbet, you seem quite exhausted. And
here is Henri, so talk of something else,
and divert your thoughts.'

umm

How are you, Monsieur de Courcelles ?
We have not seen much of you lately,'
said Dr Fellows languidly.

The indifference with which he spoke,
showed that he did not care much for his
intended son-in-law. Indeed, excepting
that he believed his daughter to possess
a much clearer and more practical head
than his own, he never would have sanctioned
the engagement. But Lizzie loved
him, so the Doctor argued — and believed
in him, and therefore it must be all right.
Lizzie was too sensible to make a mistake
about it. The Doctor forgot, or was
ignorant of the fact, that the cleverest
women often make the greatest fools of
themselves where their hearts are concerned,
and their vivid imaginations make
them believe those they love to be all
they could wish them. The handsome,
nonchalant young Frenchman did not

appear much better pleased to meet Dr
Fellows than he did to see him, but he
considered it worth his while to refute
his assertion.

That has been your fault more than
mine he replied airily. ' I was just telling
your daughter that I have made several
attempts to find you at home, without
success. My time is not my own, you
know, any more than yours.'

Oh, if Liz is satisfied, I am sure /
am ! ' retorted Dr Fellows.

It is all right, father, Henri and I perfectly
understand each other,' interposed
his daughter cheerfully. ' But had you not
better go and lie down, father ? I don't
like that heavy look in your eyes ; and you
may be called up again at any hour of the
night. Do take some rest whilst you can.'

You are right, my dear,' replied the
Doctor, staggering to his feet ; * I really

want rest. But you will go to bed, too,
Lizzie. You will not sit up too late with
Monsieur de Courcelles ? '

There is no fear of that, for I am going
at once,' said the young man, as he rose
to his feet. ' Good-night, Doctor ; goodnight,
Liz. I shall look in upon you
again tomorrow.'

He nodded to each of them as he passed
out into the night air, and Liz looked after
his handsome lithe figure, as it disappeared
behind the clump of mango trees, with a
sigh of love and regret. But there was
nothing but affectionate solicitude patent
in her manner as she proffered her arm
to support her father to his room.

Father, you are trembling like a leaf.
I think I shall give you a little quinine.
By the way, have you heard any news
from the White House to-day ? Are they
all well?'

I trust so. I have heard nothing to the
contrary ; and I saw Mr Courtney as usual
this morning. What makes you ask me,
my dear '^. '

Because Jessica said that Maraquita
looked ill.'

It can be nothing serious, or I should
have heard of it. Probably the effects of
this intense heat, and the unhealthy state
of the atmosphere. But they are well
provided with disinfectants at the White
House, and Mr Courtney will not permit
his wife or daughter to enter the plantation.
They always drive on the other
side of the island.'

That accounts for my not having seen
either of them for so long,' said Lizzie, as
she left her father to lie down, dressed
as he was, and try to gain a much-needed
repose.

S she re-entered the sitting-room,
she passed atonceto the entrance
which led on to the verandah.
All the windows were wide open, and the
shaded lamp upon the table, round which
myriads of insects were hovering, conveyed
no heat to the apartment, yet it seemed to
stifle her for want of air. Her head and
her heart seemed both on fire, and she could
recall nothing of the events of the evening,
except that Henri had denied he was untrue
to her, and yet had left without giving her
any proof of his fidelity. The world seemed

to be crumbling beneath her feet as she
stepped out of the open door, and Hated up
her face to the star-spangled sky. How
calm and peaceful and steadfast it appeared !
What a contrast to her own turbulent spirit,
and how she longed to be at peace also —
anywhere, anyhow, only at peace !

Liz was passing through the cruellest
phase of a disappointment in love — when
merciless doubt obtrudes its fang into the
heart, and poisons the whole being. How
we despise and hate ourselves for doubting,
and yet how painfully we go into the
minutiae of our loathsome suspicion, and
dissect every reason that forbids our casting
it from us !

Liz felt as if she dared not think about
it. As she recalled De Courcelles' words
and manner that evening, she saw that he
had not said or done a single thing calculated
to set her mind at rest. Except the

solemn oath which he had sworn, and
somehow, though she loved him, Liz derived
no comfort from remembering that
oath, and even wished he had not taken it.
That he might not have deserted her for the
sake of Maraquita Courtney was true — ashe
had attested it, she was bound to believe
it was true — but he was changed to herself.
All the oaths sworn under heaven
could not disabuse her mind of that idea ;
and if he were false, what did it signify to
her who occupied the place which she had
lost ? The brave woman who could set a
broken limb, or lance an abscess without
wincing, shook like an aspen leaf at the
prospect of losing her handsome lover. Her
love was so knit to him, that she believed
she could never disentangle it, but would
have to live on, with her live warm heart
beating against his dead cold one, until
death came to release them. That is the

worst of finding out the unworthiness of
those whom we have believed in, — we
cannot all at once tear our hearts away,
and we despise ourselves for being so
weak as to let them bleed to death by
inches, instead of freeing them with one
wrench.

Liz was ready to despise herself as she
walked a little way from the bungalow.
It stood in the centre of the coffee plantation,
but a considerable space round it had
been set with ornamental shrubs and trees.
The glossy - leaved creamy - white magnolias,
with their golden centres, shed
their powerful perfume on the night air,
and a clump of orange trees in full blossom
mingled their scent with the magnolia.
The night-blowing cistus and the trumpet
flowers wound themselves up the supports
of the verandah ; the insects, with many
a birr-r and whiz-z, disported themselves

in the lemon grass, and from the covert of
the plantation came low-toned murmurs
from the sleepy love-birds, or the shrill cry
of a green parrot startled from its bower of
bud and blossom. Liz lifted her heated
face to heaven, as though she would draw
inspiration from its majestic calm.

Far off, from the cluster of negroes' huts,
which bordered the property, she could
distinguish the crooning wails of the
mourners, preparing their dead for burial
at sunrise, and her heart bled for the poor
black mothers who had been compelled to
part with the babies at their breast. Death
and sorrow seemed to surround her, and
her spirits sunk down to their lowest ebb.
The stillness was intense. It was a night
when one seemed lifted up from this lower
earth, and capable of holding communion
with the Unseen.

But absorbed as Liz Fellows was in her

own trouble, she was startled after a while
by the sound of a low faint moan that
came from the surrounding thicket. Her
first idea was that it proceeded from
Rosa mourning over her dead child —
poor wild Rosa, who was so heedless as
to be almost half-witted, and who had
fallen a ready prey to some loafing young
sailor who had spent a few days near
the plantation. Liz had felt deeply interested
in this girl. She had been
shocked and horrified to find she had
so little sense of decency or respect for
her womanhood as to succumb to the
first temptation offered her, but she had
not slighted nor reproached the girl inconsequence.
Such things were common
enough amongst the coolies. It was not
Liz's vocation to preach but to console.
She had indeed, whilst watching over
Rosa and her baby, tried to convince

her of the wrong she had committed,
both to her child and herself, but the
yellow girl had paid no attention to her
words, until the fever had carried off
little Carlo. Then they had come back
upon her mind with double force, and
she had resented them by insulting her
benefactress. But Liz bore no malice.
She was only anxious to console, as far
as possible, the poor bereaved young
mother, and when she heard the low
moans, which she fancied came from
Rosa, she plunged into the thicket whence
they proceeded. She had gone but a few
steps when she came upon a female
figure leaning against the trunk of a
mango tree, as though she had no strength
to proceed further. But the first glance,
even though given in the dusky light,
showed Lizzie that this was no coolie
girl — yellow, or otherwise. The slight

form was enveloped in a black mantle,
which covered it from head to foot, but
the hood had fallen back, and in the
white face turned up to the moonbeams,
Liz recognised, to her dismay, the features
of Maraquita Courtney.

Quita ! ' she exclaimed, rushing forward,
' my dear Quita, are you ill ? '

But Maraquita shrunk from the kindly
hand which was laid upon her, as if it had
been the sting of a serpent.

Don't touch me,' she murmured ; ' I
could not bear it. I don't want you. I
want — your — your — father.'

My father is at home, dear. He will
see you at once if you wish it. But
why didn't you send for him, Maraquita,
if you felt ill '^. Why did you take the
trouble to come down here to see
him?'

But all the answer Maraquita made

was to utter another heartrending moan
as she swayed backwards and forwards
with pain.

Oh, my dearest girl, you are really
ill ! You must come to the bungalow
at once, and let father prescribe for you.
Lean on me, Maraquita, and let me
support you. Only a few steps farther,
and we shall be there.'

The girl she spoke to appeared to
have no alternative but to accede to her
request. She leaned heavily on Liz's
arm, and with many a moan dragged her
feet across the threshold of the Doctor's
house, where she sank exhausted into a
chair.

She was a beautiful creature, who had
just attained her eighteenth year. Her
fair-haired English father had imparted
to her a skin of dazzling whiteness, with
a complexion like the heart of a maiden-blush

rose, and her Spanish mother had
given her eyes dark as the sloe and
soft as velvet, v^ith languishing lids and
curled lashes, and hair of rippling raven.
Maraquita's form vas slight and supple ;
her hands and feet small and childlike.
She was in all points a great contrast
to the Doctor's daughter, who regarded
her as the loveliest girl she had ever
seen. As little children they had been
the most intimate companions and playmates,
Lizzie acting as an elder sister
and protector to the little Maraquita,
who toddled all over the plantation
under her care. When older, too, they
had studied together, or rather Liz had
tried to impart the knowledge she derived
from her father to Quita ; but the
latter had never advanced beyond the
rudiments of learning. Her indolent,
half-educated mother, who lounged about

VOL. I. E

in a dressing-gown all day, and had no
thoughts beyond her Sunday attire and
her evening drive, considered schooling
quite unnecessary for her beautiful little
daughter, and much preferred to see her
running about the White House in a lace
frock and blue ribbons, with her rosy,
dimpled feet bare, to letting her be
cooped up in the bungalow studying
grammar and geography.

So Maraquita had grown up to womanhood
about as ignorant as it is possible
for a young lady to be — about also as
vain and foolish as it is possible for a
woman to be. Yet Liz loved her — spite
of it all — for the sake of those early
memories. She had never relinquished
her intimacy with Quita, and when they
met, they were as familiar as of old,
but they did not meet so often as before.
The last two years, during which Miss

Courtney had been introduced to the
society of San Diego, had much separated
them. The pleasant evenings which they
had been used to spend together, wandering
through the coffee plantation, were
gone for ever. Quita was always engaged
now, either to a dinner, or a ball, or to
go to the theatre with her friends, and
Liz had ceased to expect to see her.
And since the fever had broken out
amongst the coolies, they had never met,
and she was content, for Quita's sake, that
it should be so. And now to find her
wandering about the plantation at night
and evidently so ill, filled Liz's breast
with alarm. There was but one solution
of the riddle. Quita had contracted
the fever in its worst form, and had come
to them in her delirium. Liz had no
time to do more than think the thought
before she deposited Quita in a chair and

rushed to wake her father, and summon

him to her relief.

Father,' she exclaimed hurriedly, as
she roused Dr Fellows from his sleep,
I am so sorry to disturb you, but it is
absolutely necessary. Quita is ill — very
ill, and you must come to her at once.
I met her wandering about the grounds,
evidently in great pain, and she says she
wants to see you. I am afraid she is
delirious. Oh, father, do come to herat
once ! '

Maraquita here ? ' said the Doctor,
as he rose from his bed and prepared
to quit the room. * And without her
parents? Impossible.'

Oh, father, I am sure she is not in
her right senses, though she is too ill
to speak much. What will Mr and Mrs
Courtney say ? '

'We must send word to them at once,'

exclaimed the Doctor, as he preceded his
daughter to the sitting-room. But as
soon as he had felt Maraquita's pulse,
and listened to her moans, the expression
of his face changed from concern to the
deepest dismay. ' This is much worse
than I anticipated,' he whispered to his
daughter. ' We must carry her into
my room at once.'

Dr Fellows,' cried the sick girl,
as she clutched at his coat sleeve,
save me, for God's sake — save me !
I came to you because you are so
good and kind, but — but — I think I am
dying.'

'No! No! my dear! it will be all
right by - and - by,' replied the Doctor
soothingly ; ' but you must be good now,
and do as I tell you, and you will soon
be well. Liz and I are going to move you
into my bedroom.'

And shall I be alone with you ? ' she
asked, with scared eyes.

'Yes! — quite alone! Now, Lizzie, take
her feet, and I will carry her head and
shoulders, and we'll have her on the bed
in no time.'

Is it the fever .^ ' inquired Liz, with a
white face, for she knew that Maraquita's
constitution was very fragile.

'Yes! yes! Now, go and leave us,
and tell this to no one.'

But, father, let me undress her first.'

I wish you to go at once and
leave us alone,' repeated the Doctor
firmly.

Liz obeyed her father's orders at once.
She was too well used to work under
him as an assistant, to dream of disputing
them. But she was very much astonished
to hear him send her away from her
adopted sister's side.

Shall I run up to the White House
and tell Mr and Mrs Courtney that Quita
is with us, father ? They will be terribly
alarmed if they find out she has
gone.'

Go nowhere, and speak to no one,' replied
Dr Fellows authoritatively. ' They
are ny orders, remember. Remain in the
sitting-room, and let no one enter the
house. When I require you, I will call
you.'

Liz walked out of the bed-chamber at
once, and left her father with his patient.
She could not understand him this evening,
and his action alarmed as much as it
puzzled her. Maraquita must indeed be
ill, to make him look and speak with such
complete dismay ; he who was generally
so cool and self-collected, and who appeared
to look on death, whenever it occurred,
as a kindly note of release from a

very troublesome world. She drew out
her work (for whatever her mental perplexities,
Liz was never idle) and sat
down to sew and practise patience. She
could not help hearing the low moans
that forced their way through the wooden
partitions of the building, and her father's
soothing tones, but she could gain no
knowledge of what was passing there.
At last, after the space of an hour,
although it had seemed much longer, Dr
Fellows entered the room in which she
sat, and went to his cupboard in search
of some medicine. His daughter looked
up anxiously as he appeared.

Only tell me if she is better,' she
urged.

She is not better yet,* replied her
father; ' but there is every hope she
soon will be.'

Thank Heaven for it ! But I cannot

help thinking of her poor parents.
Perhaps they have discovered her absence,
and are searching the island
for her. It is cruel to keep them in
suspense.'

I think if you look at the matter from
a sensible point of view, Liz, you will see
that when they miss Maraquita, my bungalow
is the first place they will visit. But
I do not think they will miss her, at least
not yet. Meanwhile I want to speak to
you. Can you give me your serious attention
? '

Unless Quita should want you,' replied
Liz, looking anxiously towards the bedchamber.


She will not do so for some little time,
for I have given her a soothing draught,
and she is asleep ; and I can hear the least
sound from where I stand But it is
necessary you should listen to me.*

I am all attention, father.'

You have spent the best part of your
life in San Diego, Liz ; has it ever struck
you as strange that I, an Englishman, and
a certificated doctor, should have chosen to
make my home in this island, and live,
as it were, on the bounty of Edward
Courtney?'

I don't know that I have thought it
strange, father, for you might have had
a thousand reasons for settling in this
beautiful island, but I have felt fora
long time past that you have some
secret trouble, to make you shun
the curiosity or the publicity of the
world.'

You are right, Liz, and you are old
enough now to share that sorrow — or
rather that shame'

Oh ! no, no, father, don't say that ! '
cried Lizzie, as her work dropped into

her lap. * Whatever it may be, it is not
shame'

My dear, I cannot conceal the fact
any longer, for without it you will never
understand what I am about to tell you.
The very name we bear, Liz, is not our
own. I was compelled to adopt the
name of Fellows, in order to escape — '

What ? In Heaven's name, what ? '
she exclaimed, clutching at his sleeve.

Transportation I replied Dr Fellows,
in a low, strained voice.

She was about to scream out, to protest
her horror of the disgrace attached
to them, — her indignation that he should
have brought it on their heads, — buta
glance at her father's pale, pained
face restrained her. In a moment
she realised the awful effort it must
have been for him to confess his
guilt before his daughter, and womanly

compassion took the place of her first
resentment.

My poor father,' she said, in a low
voice, as she took his hands in hers.
My poor father ! Surely it was not
deserved. There mist have been some
mistake.'

No, Lizzie, there was no mistake.
Since I have told you so far, you must
hear all ! I am a forger.'

She hid her face in her hands then,
for she did not care to look at him, lest
he should read the contempt she felt her
features must express.

This is the secret of the friendship
between me and Mr Courtney. I owe
him more than my life. We were boys
at school together, Liz, and chums at
college, and always the best of friends.
But he was rich — the only son of a
wealthy planter — and I was very poor,

and had nothing to depend on but my wits.
He led me into extravagances which I
was too ready to follow, but whilst he
had the means to defray his debts, I had
no power to do the same by mine. At
last, in an evil moment, to prevent a bill
coming upon my old father which would
have broken up his humble home and
sent him to the workhouse, I forged my
friend Edward Courtney's name, as a
temporary relief Before I could makeup
the money, the paper fell into his
hands, and he might have ruined me ; instead
of which, Liz, he forgave me freely ;
but the rumour had got abroad, and I
was a ruined man. I was married, and
set up in a small practice. I lost it all,
and it preyed so on your poor mother's
mind that when you were born, she
faded out of life, and left me alone with
my disgrace. I took you away from

the place, and tried to establish a practice
in various parts of England without
success — the whispered scandal followed
me everywhere — until Mr Courtney came
into his father's property, and settled out
in San Diego ; then he wrote and begged
me for the sake of our old friendship, tolet
the past be forgotten between us, and
to come out here and hold an appointment
on Beauregard as medical overseer
to the plantation. As soon as I could
bring down my pride to accept a benefit
from the man I had so deeply wronged,
I brought you over here, and we have
been dependants on Edward Courtney's
bounty ever since. Lizzie, what do we
owe the man who has placed us under
such an obligation ? '

Our lives, should he require them,' she
answered, in a low voice.

She was deeply humiliated by what she

had heard. She had never dreamt that
the evident trouble under which her father
laboured could be the brand of shame.
Her proud independent spirit writhed
under the knowledge that she had been
reared on the bread of charity, — that the
very name she passed by was not her
own, and that the best spirit which she
and her father could claim from their
benefactor, was one of tolerance only.
She could have cried out to Dr Fellows
then and there, to take her away from
the surroundings which had become hateful
to her, because they must evermore
be associated with the bitter story of his
guilt. But she only hung her head, and
spoke in a whisper. Her father had been
sufficiently degraded by having to tell her
such a story, and he had been very good
to her, and it was not his daughter's part
to add to his suffering. But she threw

the full depth of its meaning into the
answer she returned him, and he caught
at it eagerly.

You are right, Liz. Our lives, and all
we have, should be at his disposal, in
return for all his goodness to us. You
cannot feel that more deeply than I do.
And now I want to hear you take a solemn
oath to that effect.'

'An oath cried Lizzie, startled at the
idea.

Yes ! an oath before Almighty God.
Nothing short of it will satisfy me, and
set my mind at rest.'

Ah, father 1 ' she exclaimed, remembering
another oath which she had heard
that evening, *will not my promise do
as well ? You know that I would not
dare to break it. It would be as sacred
to me as any oath.'

No, Lizzie — no ! I am not asking this

for myself, but for another — for my
friend Edward Courtney, to whom we
owe so much, and nothing short of
an oath will do. Say, " I swear before
Almighty God, and by all my hopes
of salvation, that I will never repeat
what I may see, or hear, or suspect
this night"'

Oh, father ! you frighten me ! What
terrible thing is going to happen ? '

Are you a child, to be scared by a few
words .f^ If you will not swear it, Lizzie, I
will send you out of the bungalow this
minute, to the house of our next neighbours,
and you shall not return until I
fetch you. But I want your assistance,
and if you will do as I require you, you
can stay and help me.'

For Quita's sake then, father, '' I
swear before Almighty God, and by all
my hopes of salvation, that I will never

VOL. I. F

repeat what I may see, or hear, or suspect
this night." '

'That is my brave, good daughter,'
said the Doctor, as he laid his hand
for a moment on her head, before he
gathered up the medicines he had
selected, and left the room.

IZ stood where he had left her,
awestruck and bewildered. All
her private trouble of that
evening — the sickening doubts she had
conceived of her lover's fidelity, and her
fears for Maraquita's safety — faded before
the humbling truths she had just heard.
This then, was the solution of the riddle
which had so long puzzled her — the meaning
of her father's secret anxiety and depression.
He was a criminal, whose crime
was known to the law, and who had only

escaped justice by yielding up his birthright
and hiding on the plantation of his
benefactor, Mr Courtney. It was a very
bitter truth to swallow.

Liz wondered how much Mrs Courtney
and Maraquita knew of their disgrace,
and what revulsion of feeling it mio^ht
not cause in the breast of Henri de
Courcelles. The thought of her lover
caused a sharp pang to Lizzie. What
terrible thing was about to happen in
the future for her with regard to him ?
Her father's revelation had raised a new
barrier between them — one which honour
compelled her to feel could never be
surmounted until she was permitted to
reveal it ; and what consequences might
not follow such a confession. As Liz
pondered on the difficulties in her path,
she shivered to hear the keening of the
night breeze as it sighed through the

branches of the coffee trees, and the
far-off wailing which could occasionally
be heard from the negroes' huts. They
seemed like a requiem over the ashes
of her love and blighted hope.

The tears were standing on her cheeks
when she was roused from her reverie by
the opening of the door, and her father
stood before her again.

Do you want me ? ' she said
quickly.

Dr Fellows answered her in a tone of
portentous gravity, —

Yes, Liz, though not in the way you
imagine. Set your mind at rest concerning
Maraquita. There is nothing to
be alarmed at about her. But you must
execute a commission at once for me.
You must carry this basket to Mammy
Lila on the Shanty Hill.'

Liz glanced at the large basket which

her father carried in his hand, with astonishment.


'I am to go to the Shanty Hill tonight,
father ? Do you know that it is
five miles away, and it is just two o'clock ?
Cannot it wait until the morning ? '

If it could have waited till the
morning I should not have told you to
take it now,' replied the Doctor sternly.
Have you already forgotten your own
acknowledgment that we owe (if necessary)
our very lives to Edward Courtney.'


But what has this to do with Mr
Courtney ? '

Ask no questions, but do as I bid you.
If any one else could do the work as well
as yourself, I should not trouble you, Liz.
But I can trust no one but you. Carry
the basket to Mammy Lila's hut, and
leave it there. Tell her it comes from

me, and my message to her is " Silence
and secrecy." '

I will go,' said Lizzie shortly, as she
took the basket from her father's hand.

Go by the path that skirts the outer
plantation, and cross the ravine by dorian's
glen ; it is the shorter way,' continued
Dr Fellows ; and then suddenly
twisting his daughter round so as to look
into her face, he asked her, — ' Have you
any fear ? It is dangerous traversing these
roads by night, and alone. There maybe
snakes across the path, or panthers
lurking in the thickets. Are you sure
you are not afraid ? '

The contemptuous curl of Liz's lip
showed him the futility of the question.

Afraid r she echoed. 'When have
you ever known me afraid yet ? Besides,
if this is to be done for Mr Courtney
my life is at his service.'

'More than your life, Lizzie — your sacred
honour. Remember your oath, never to
reveal what you may hear, see, or suspect
this night.'

I have not forgotten it,' said his
daughter briefly, as she threw a mantle
over her shoulders, and left the cottage
with her burden.

It was with strange feelings that she
set out to accomplish her errand. The
tropical night could hardly be called dark,
for the deep blue firmament was set with
myriads of stars, but the dusky glens
and leafy coverts were full of shadows,
sufficient to mask the unexpected spring
of wild cat or panther, or to conceal the
poisonous asp wriggling through the grass
on which she trod.

Yet she went bravely on, her only
means of defence a stout stick with
which she stirred the leaves in her

path, In order to unearth a hidden
enemy.

The covered basket she bore was rather
heavy, and she had no knowledge what
it contained. Most women would have
asked the question before they started —
many would have untied and opened it
as soon as they were out of sight. Liz
did neither. A horrible suspicion had
entered her mind, which she was fighting
against with all her might, and it
left no room for idle curiosity. On the
contrary, she dreaded lest some accident
should reveal the contents of the basket
to her. She did not wish to ascertain
them. She felt intuitively that the knowledge
would be the cause of fresh unhappiness.
So she walked rapidly and without
a pause to Shanty Hill, though the five
miles seemed very long without the landmarks
familiar to her by daylight, and

her feet were very weary before she got
there.

Mammy Lila was an old negress who
had acquired some repute as a herbalist,
and was much sought after by the Coolie
population to doctor their children. She
was the sage-femme of Beauregard, and had
helped Liz on many an occasion to usher
the poor little dusky mites of humanity
into a world which waited to welcome
them with stripes and hard work. Mammy
Lila was a seer into the bargain, and
expectant brides and mothers were wont
to go to her to read what fortune lay in
the future for them. She was an old
woman now, and rather infirm, but Dr
Fellows had faith in her good sense and
discretion, as he evinced on this occasion.
The immediate approach to her hut was
up a steep bit of hill, covered with loose
stones, and as Lizzie, weary with mental

and physical fatigue, toiled up it, she
stumbled against an obstacle in her path,
and shook the basket in her hand, from
which issued in another second the feeble
wailing cry of a new-born infant. Liz
almost dropped the basket in her surprise.
She had feared it, but she had resolved
not to believe it, and now her worst
suspicions were confirmed. She stood
still for a moment, trembling at the
discovery she had made, and then recommenced
almost to rtm up the rocky
hill, as though she would run from the
horror that assailed her. Panting with
the exertions she had made, and almost
speechless with dismay, she entered the
negress's hut, white, scared, and hardly
able to express herself Mammy Lila
was in bed, and had to be roused by
repeated attacks upon her door, and
when she answered the summons she

was scarcely awake enough to understand
what was said to her.

Missy Liz!' she exclaimed in her surprise;
'who bad now? Not little Cora,
sure ! Dat chile not due for three week
yet'

No , no, Mammy ! I have not come
for that,' said Lizzie, in a faint voice.
The Doctor sent me. He said I was
to give you this' placing the basket on
the floor, * and to say his message to you
is " Silence and secrecy'' '

Ah ! good Doctor know he can trust
Mammy Lila,' replied the old negress,
as she began to untie the basket
lid. * And what is this, Missy Liz — a
baby?'

I don't know — I don't want to know —
don't ask me ! ' cried Liz Fellows, as she
turned quickly away. * Only remember
father's message, '^ Silence and secrecy !' '

and with that she ran quickly down the
uneven rocky path again.

The loose stones rolled away from
under her feet, and hurt them in her
rapid descent, but she cared nothing at
that moment for pain or inconvenience.
All her desire was to get out of sight
and out of hearing, and forget if possible
the horrid task that had been imposed
upon her. Maraquita — whom she had
known from babyhood, and believed to
be so innocent and pure, to have subjected
herself to this penalty of shame.
It seemed too awful and incredible a
thought to be dwelt upon. Liz remembered,
as she ran hurriedly homewards,
how she had blamed poor heedless
Rosa for the same fault, — how sternly
she had reproved the ignorant yellow
girl, who knew no better than to follow
the instincts of her fallen nature, for her

depravity, and told her she ought to
have had more principle, and a better
sense of right and wrong, than to yield
to such a temptation. But Maraquita,
so much beloved, so tenderly watched,
so closely guarded, how could she have
so deceived her friends and lowered herself;
and who could have been so base
as to lead her astray ? This discovery,
terribly as it affected Liz, cleared her
lover's character at once in her eyes ;
and even in the midst of her pain, she
could not help breathing a sigh of thankfulness
to think that Henri de Courcelles
was innocent of the charge imputed to
him. He could never have been flirting
with the planter's daughter whilst she
had conceived a serious affection for
some one else. Liz recalled the fervour
of his oath with secret satisfaction ; it
was no wonder indeed that he felt

justified in taking it, and she felt ashamed
of the jealous spirit that had forced it
from him.

But her thoughts soon reverted to her
adopted sister, and she burned with resentment
against her unknown betrayer. Her
vow to Dr Fellows — which she felt to be
as sacred as though uttered before God's
throne ; the revelation which had been
made to her that evening of their own disgrace
; pity for her friend's misfortune, and
love for Henri de Courcelles, were all
warring in her breast, and making her
mind a chaos, as, wearied and panting,
she stumbled over the threshold of her
father's bungalow. She expected to find
him alone with Quita, — to be able to tell
him of her hopes and fears, — but, to her
consternation, the room was full, and as
she paused in the open doorway, her white
and anxious face made her look like a

guilty person. Mr and Mrs Courtney,
with the old black nurse Jessica, were
all there, and Dr Fellows was talking
earnestly to them. As he caught sight
of his daughter, he turned to meet her.

Pott know air, he whispered sternly,
as he looked into her sad eyes, and squeezed
her hand as in a vice. * Remember your
oath!

Why, is that Lizzie ? ' exclaimed Mrs
Courtney from the sofa, where she lay
extended. ' I thought she was nursing
our poor Quita. Whatever has she been
doing out of doors at this time of night ? '

She has been to fetch me some necessary
drugs,' replied the Doctor quickly.

Mrs Courtney had been a beautiful
creature in her youth, but though not
forty years of age, she had already lost all
pretensions to good looks. She was corpulent
and ungainly. Her large sleepy

black eyes were sunk in a round face, with
a yellow complexion, and triple chins. Her
waving black hair was twisted untidily at
the back of her head, and her abundant
figure, unrestrained by belt or corset, was
enveloped in a loose dressing-gown. But
she rolled off the sofa nimbly enough when
she heard the voice of Liz Fellows.

Oh, Liz ! ' she exclaimed, grasping her
hand, * this is terrible news the Doctor has
to give us ; our darling Quita down with
the fever. Fancy the dear child rambling
to your house in her delirium ! What a
mercy she had sufficient sense left to guide
her. She might have walked into the
river. You may fancy what we felt when
we heard that she was gone. Jessica found
it out first when she went into her room
with some iced sherbet, for Quita has been
very restless at night lately. I suppose it
was this horrid fever coming on, but she

VOL. I. G

has been quite out of sorts for some weeks
past. But oh ! Lizzie, how can she have
caught it ? '

This long harangue had given Lizzie
an opportunity to recover her equanimity,
and she was able to reply quite
calmly, —

It is quite impossible to say, dear Mrs
Courtney ; but father does not think seriously
of the case, and so you must not be
too anxious about her

But he will not let us even look at the
dear child. Dr Fellows, I really think you
are too particular. Surely her parents have
the right to see her.'

Certainly, my dear madam, if you insist
upon it; but I think Mr Courtney will
uphold my decision. I have not been
able to determine if this fever which is
decimating your plantation is contagious
or not. 1 rather fancy it is epidemic, but

it is impossible to say, because it is of
no known character. It is surely more
prudent, however, to keep on the right
side. If Maraquita were in the slightest
danger — if she were even seriously ill,
I should be the first to entreat you to see
her, but as it is, your presence would only
do her harm. She is weak and exhausted,
and everything depends on her gaining
strength from sleep. Would you be so
selfish as to excite and throw her back
again, by disturbing her, or run the risk of
contracting the disease yourself.'

Certainly not', interrupted Mr Courtney
decisively. ' You are right. Fellows, as
always are — '

(' Don't say that,' interpolated the
Doctor, in a pained voice.)

and I forbid my wife going near

the room where Maraquita lies. I can
trust her to you, Fellows — implicitly, and

with the most perfect confidence. I know
you will do your very best for my dear child,
and treat her as if she were your own.'

'Indeed — indeed I will, Courtney! If
a sense of all I owe to you — '

Hush! I will not hear you mention it.
If such were ever the case, you have
repaid it a thousand fold. And here I
give you the best proof I could, of my
friendship and affection. I leave with you
my dearest possession — my only child.
Fellows, my dear old chum, I know there
is no need for me to recommend her to
your care. You can remember how long
it was before she came to us, how gladly
I received the gift, and how precious it
has been to me ever since. My very
life is bound up in my little Quita. You
will guard it — '

With my own,' interrupted the Doctor
solemnly. * I would lay down my life tomorrow,

Courtney, to save that of any one
who is dear to you.'

I believe it, my dear fellow, and, thank
God, there is no necessity for such a
sacrifice. You can assure us that
Maraquita is in no danger.'

On my word of honour, she is in no
danger whatever, and in a few days she
will be quite well again. All she needs
is rest and quiet, and if you will trust
her to Liz and me, we will see that she
gets it.'

We do trust her with you ; and Liz, we
know, will make the most devoted nurse,'
said Mr Courtney, smiling ; but as he
caught sight of Lizzie's face, the smile
faded. * Holloa ! what is this '^. Are you
going to have the fever too ? You are as
white as a sheet.'

It is the heat,' murmured Liz, in a low
voice, as she turned away ; ' and I have

had a great deal of nursing lately Into
the bargain, Mr Courtney. Father and I
have the heartache all day long, to seethe
ravages made by the fever amongst
the coolies.'

Yes, it is sad enough,' said the planter,
even for those who have not to count
the loss as I have, by pounds, shillings,
and pence. Do what we will to improve
the condition of these people, their natural
love of dirt and over feeding makes them
fall an easy prey to any disease. We are
quite sensible of what you and your father
have done for us, Lizzie. It is through
your means alone, that we have not lost
many more. You must not be disheartened
on that account.'

'The distress seems universal,' continued
Liz ; ' the same floods that rotted
the vegetation, and caused this malarious
fever, have destroyed the rice fields, and

spread a famine amongst the negro population.
The cases of starvation that reach
us every day are heartrending, because
it is so impossible to relieve them all.
Have there been any more riots in the
town, Mr Courtney ? '

No, Liz. I have heard of none since
the military were called out to quell them.
But we must keep you up no longer. It
is already morning. Come, my dear Nata,
let us leave Dr Fellows and his daughter
to get some rest for themselves.'

But Mrs Courtney was still unwilling
to assent entirely to the Doctor's wishes.
She had no suspicion of the truth, but
she felt intuitively that something had
been kept back from them, and she was
curious to find out what it was.

Let Jessica stay, at all events,' she
said; *she has been Quita's nurse since
she was a baby, and has attended her

through all her illnesses. She will break
her heart if you do not let her stay ; and
she can watch Maraquita when Lizzie is
absent or engaged.'

That sounds reasonable,' acquiesced
Mr Courtney ; ' and perhaps Jessica had
better remain at the bungalow.'

But Dr Fellows was firm in resisting
the proposal.

Jessica can remain here if you desire
it,' he answered, ' but she does not enter
Quita's room. I am not even sure that
Lizzie will do so. You have confided
your daughter to my care, Mr Courtney,
and you will not find me unworthy of
the trust. I shall be both nurse and
doctor to Maraquita, until I can bring
her to the White House again.'

You are a good fellow,' said Mr
Courtney, wringing the Doctor's hand,
*and I do not limit the confidence I

place in you. Jessica shall return with
us, and we will leave Quita entirely in
your care.'

You shall have no cause to regret it
replied Dr Fellows, as he accompanied
them to the door of the bungalow. * You
can send down as often as you like for
news of her, and I shall be found at
my post, ready to report on her progress.
But I honestly anticipate restoring
her to you in a very short time.'

As he returned from seeing them off,
and met his daughter's eye, his face
changed, and his expression became very
grave.

That is well over,' he ejaculated, with
a sigh, ' and the rest remains, Lizzie,
with you and me.'

Which means, father, that she is safe
as far as we are concerned. Am I to
go into her room?'

No ; I should prefer you should not.
There is no necessity for your presence
there, and I wish to leave you as unfettered
as I possibly can. You have no notion
how this calamity happened, Liz ? '

Not the slightest. I know so few of
her friends. I have not even heard that
she had an attachment for any one.'

Well, it is a terrible business, but we
must stand her friends, and see her through
with it. She has told me nothing, poor
child ; but she has thrown herself upon my
mercy, and entreated me to save her from
the wrath and reproaches of her parents,
and for their sakes I have promised to do
so. She implores that even you shall not
be told of her misfortune, and I have been
obliged to humour her. We must keep up
the deception of the fever, and as soon as
she is sufficiently recovered to return home,
the danger will be over.'

But — Mammy Lila ! ' gasped Liz.

Mammy Lila will do as I tell her, my
dear, and at all risks this child's reputation
must be saved. Everything else is an
after consideration,' replied the Doctor, ashe
stumbled slightly, and saved himself
by catching at the back of a chair.

Father, are you ill ? ' cried Lizzie
quickly, as she sprang to his assistance.

No, I think not ; but I will take a
cordial, if you will mix it for me. I Trust
not be ill until this business is settled,
and Maraquita is safe under her parents'
roof again.'

But your hands are very cold, and you
are trembling all over. Surely you are
unfit for further work, and should go to
bed and rest. Father, trust her to me.
Don't overtax your strength, for her sake.
You know that I am a careful and trustworthy
nurse.'

If I die in the effort, I will watch over
her myself, and without assistance ! ' cried
the Doctor excitedly, as he drank the
draught she tendered him, and tottered
back to the sleeping chamber.

Lizzie looked after him with the deepest
anxiety.

I am sure he is ill,' she said to herself,
and if I am not very much mistaken, he
has the symptoms of the fever strongly
upon him. Oh, my poor father ! is it
possible that when you need the attention
and skill you have bestowed on others,
you will sacrifice yourself for the sake of
this frail girl ? Yes, I feel you will, even
should it result in your own death. And
I would have it so, though Heaven only
knows what I should do without you —
sooner than see you shrink from paying
off one tithe of the heavy debt you owe
to Maraquita's father. But the bearing

of this heavy burden laid upon us ! Did
Mr Courtney but know the weight of it,
he would surely acknowledge his forbearance
has not been in vain.'

^^"^^HE overseer of Beauregard occupied
another bungalow on
the plantation, a perfect bower
of beauty, which, whilst lying close to
the White House, was entirely concealed
from observation by the glorious
foliage that environed it. Its wooden
walls were clothed in creepers, and surrounded
by tall cocoa palms, and feathery
bamboos and orange trees, with their
double wealth of fruit and flower. The
heavy perfumes by which the atmosphere
was laden would have proved too much

for any one but a man acclimatised to
the West Indies, but they suited the
sensuous, pleasure-loving nature of Henri
de Courcelles perfectly. As he sat, or
rather reclined, on a long bamboo lounge
in his verandah, with a cigar between
his lips, and his handsome eyes half
closed, he looked the picture of lazy
content. He was dressed in full white
trousers, and a linen shirt, thrown open
at the throat, round which a crimson
silk neckerchief was carelessly knotted.
His dark curling hair was thrown off
his brow, and his olive complexion was
flushed with the mid-day heat. His
work was over for the time being, and
he was free to rest and enjoy himself
until the sun went down. He had
been on horseback by six o'clock that
morning, riding round the coffee and
sugar plantations, keeping the coolies

up to their work, and receiving the
complaints of, or distributing his orders
amongst, the men who worked under
him. The labourers on Beauregard had
long come to the conclusion that it was
lost time to prefer any request out of
the ordinary routine to Henri de Courcelles.
Charming as he was when in
the society of his equals, he was a stern
and implacable overseer, being quick to
find fault, and slow to extend forgiveness,
and having no sympathy whatever
with the people he ruled over. He
looked upon the negroes as so many
brute beasts out of which it was his
duty to get as much work as possible,
and he had often turned away with disgust
on encountering Lizzie Fellows
with a dusky baby on her lap, or with
her arm beneath the head of a dying
negress. He did not give vent to his

opinions in public. It would scarcely
have been safe, surrounded as he was
by the creatures he despised, and often
at their mercy ; but they knew them,
all the same, and were ripe to seize the
first opportunity for revenge. Liz — with
her calm practical brain, and reflective
mind, should have seen for herself that
a man who could swear at an unoffending
coolie, or thrust a little child roughly
from his path, or strike his horse between
the ears with his hunting crop,
for no reason except to gratify a passing
temper, would never make a kind husband
or father. But the ancients never did
a wiser thing than to pourtray love
as blind. It blinds the cleverest of us
to mental as well as physical defects,
until some fatal day, the rose-coloured
glasses drop from our eyes, and we seethe
man, or woman, love has idealised,

VOL. I. H

in their true colours. Liz saw some of
De Courcelles' faults, It is true, and grieved
over them, but there was always some
extenuating circumstance for them in
her love-blinded eyes ; and if there had
not been, it was only sufficient for her
lover to turn his glorious Spanish orbs
reproachfully on her, to bring her, metaphorically,
to his feet. Well, after all, perhaps,
if love were not foolish, and weak,
and blind, it would not be love at all,
but only prudence ; and the majority of
us would fare badly enough if some one did
not see us through rose-coloured glasses.
It would be terrible to stand before the
world as we really are, in all the hideous
nakedness of our evil tempers, and inclinations,
and devices, and have no
sweet, generous, pitying, and all-believing
love somewhere to throw a cloak
above our mortal nature, and believe

that the making of a saint lurks behind
it.

Henri de Courcelles was thinking
somewhat self-reproachfully of Liz that
morning. The interview he had had
with her the night before haunted him
Hke a bitter taste when the draught is
swallowed. He knew he had lied to
her, and though the lie didn't trouble
him, her complete belief in his sincerity
did. If we tell an untruth, and it is
fiercely combatted and denied by the
opposing party, we are apt to tell a
dozen more to uphold the first, until we
almost swear ourselves into believing it.
But if the falsehood is at once received
as truth, and believed in with the most
innocent faith, it makes us, if we have
any feeling left whatever, doubly ashamed
of Courcelles. Henri de Courcelles had
quite ceased to love Liz Fellows — indeed,

it is doubtful if he had ever loved her at
all — but he had admired and esteemed her,
and these very feelings had killed those
of a warmer nature. She vas too good
for him — too far above him. She
humbled him every time she opened
her mouth. Maraquita Courtney was a
woman much more to his taste — sweet,
ripe, youthful Maraquita, with her outspoken
love and unbridled passion, — her
red lips and wreathing white arms, and
utter disregard of truth or principle.
But Monsieur de Courcelles had not
been easy about Maraquita lately. He
was perplexed and anxious. He did not
quite foresee how matters would turnout,
nor what prospect lay in the future
for them. He was somewhat ashamed
of the duplicity of which he had been
guilty to Liz Fellows, but he consoled
himself with the idea that it had been

forced upon him by his relations with
Maraquita, and that it behoved him, asa
man of honour, to divert suspicion
from her, even at the risk of deceiving
another woman.

As he was dreaming and ruminating
on these things, he was surprised to see
Mr Courtney approaching the bungalow.
It was not the planter's custom to visit
his overseer, and their business hours,
which were usually passed in the office
at the White House, were over for the
day. De Courcelles sprang to his feet
as his employer appeared, and proffered
his seat for his acceptance. Mr Courtney
sank into it without a word. He
did not seem uneasy, but he was certainly
unprepared to open the conversation.
De Courcelles was the first to
speak.

I suppose you have come to speak

to me about Varney's grant, sir. I
should have given you the papers to
sign this morning, but as you were
not in the office, I brought them away
with me again. Will you see them
now ?*

No, no ! They can wait till tomorrow,'
replied Mr Courtney impatiently.
Varney knows they are all right, and
the land is his. I was unable to attend
to business this morning, for I had a disturbed
night, and slept late in consequence.'

I am sorry to hear that, sir. What
disturbed you ? '

The news has evidently not yet reached
you. Our poor Maraquita has been
dangerously ill.'

De Courcelles started, and changed
colour. His olive complexion turned to a
sickly yellow, and his brilliant eyes became
dull and lustreless. The planter

was not blind to the emotion he expressed.


Miss Courtney — ill ? ' stammered the
overseer.

Yes, very ill, and with this terrible
fever. How she contracted it we are
unable to discover, but she left her bed,
and wandered in her delirium into the
plantation, and fortunately towards the
Doctor's bungalow, where she now lies.
You may imagine what her mother and I
felt when we heard she was missing. I
thought Mrs Courtney would have gone
distracted. However, the first thing I
thought of was to ask for Dr Fellows'
assistance, and luckily we found her there,
but very, very ill.'

She is better, I hope ? ' gasped De
Courcelles.

She is better, and, I thank God, out of
danger,' replied Mr Courtney, looking

him steadfastly in the face, ' and in a few
days we hope to have her at the White
House again. Lizzie Fellows, who has
been like a sister to her, is nursing her
with the greatest care. She is a most
estimable young woman, clever, courageous,
and thoroughly honest — good all round,
in fact, and will prove a treasure to any
man who is fortunate enough to win her.
By the way, De Courcelles, I have heard
a rumour that you are engaged to be
married to Miss Fellows. Is it true } '
The overseer stammered still more.

Yes — no — that is to say, sir, there
has been some idea of such a thing between
us, but nothing is definitely settled.'

Mr Courtney regarded the young man
sternly.

Some idea ! Do you mean to tell me
that you would presume to trifle with the
girl, and hold out a prospect you have

no Intention of fulfilling ? Do you forget
that she is the daughter of one of my
oldest friends, and second only in my
affections to my own child ? Dr Fellows
is not the man to permit any one to play
fast and loose with his daughter, and I
should be as ready as himself to take up
the cudgels In her behalf.'

Indeed, sir, there is no necessity for
such warmth on your part. You are
judging me without a hearing. Lizzie
and I perfectly understand each other.
We are the best of friends, but at present I
cannot see any prospect of our being more.'

You mean to say that your salary is
not sufficient to keep a wife upon ? '

I have never looked on it in that light,
Mr Courtney. Miss Fellows is devoted
to her father and her profession, and we
have hardly spoken of the time when
she will be called upon to leave them.'

Then you ought to have done so,
Monsieur de Courcelles. A man has no
right to make love to a girl unless he can
talk of marriage to her. Now I have
more than an ordinary interest in Liz
Fellows, and if it is for her happiness to
marry you, I am ready to further your
plans. You need not wish to bring your
wife to a prettier home than the one you
now occupy ; but I will engage to furnish
it afresh, and double your present salary on
the day you marry her. Will that bring
matters between you to a crisis ? '

Henri de Courcelles shifted his feet, and
looked uncertain.

I am not sure, sir ; you see, you are
precipitating them. Miss Fellows would
be as astonished as I am, if she could
overhear our present conversation. We
have never spoken of marriage as a necessary
contingency to our friendship.'

Then you don't love the girl, and you
don't intend to marry her ? '

I don't say that, Mr Courtney. It is
impossible to say what we may decide
upon in the future ; but for the present,
I positively deny that we have any fixed
plans whatever.'

Mr Courtney looked dissatisfied for a
moment, then, with the air of a man who
has made up his mind to do a disagreeable
thing, he proceeded, —

Well ! no one can settle these matters
satisfactorily, but the parties concerned,
and so I have no more to say about it.
But there is another subject uppermost
in my mind, which I feel I must mention
to you. It is a delicate one, which I
would much rather avoid, but I cannot
shirk my duty. I have been unable to
help observing, De Courcelles, that you
admire my daughter Maraquita. I can

hardly suppose you entertain any hopes

from that quarter, but if you do, you

must dismiss them at once, and for ever,

for I have quite different views for Miss

Courtney

The handsome young overseer had
flushed dark crimson during his employer's
speech, but he did not immediately
reply to it.

I hope I may be mistaken,' continued
Mr Courtney, 'and I hope I have not
offended you by mentioning it, but I
have meant to do so for some time
past. Maraquita is a lovely girl. I
cannot help seeing that, though I am
her father, and doubtless you appreciate
her beauty, in common with many other
men ; but it can never go any further.'

I have never presumed to think it
could,' replied De Courcelles, with dry
lips, and a husky voice.

It is not you to whom I have an
objection,' said the planter, * it is to
any man who cannot give Maraquita
wealth and position. She is my only
child, and I have great ambition for
her ; and I have already received a
flattering proposal for her hand, from
one of the highest men in the island.
Had it not been for this unfortunate
illness, I should have submitted his
letter to my daughter by this time.
But I have little doubt how she will
receive it. Meanwhile, I think it but
kind and just to let you know of my
intentions, and to warn you, should there
be any need of caution, to be careful.'

I thank you, Mr Courtney, for your
consideration,' replied De Courcelles, in
the same hard dry voice, * but there is
no need of it. I hope I know my duty
and my position too well, to aspire to

Miss Courtney's hand. No one can
help admiring her, nor being grateful
for any kindness she may extend to
them, but there it ends. You have
nothing to fear for me, nor I for myself.'


I am glad to hear you say so,' replied
Mr Courtney, as he rose to go ; ' in a
few days I expect that you will hear
great news from the White House, and
see preparations for a grand wedding,
and then you will better understand my
fears lest all should not prosper with
my dear child, as I hope it may do.
Meanwhile, do not forget what I said
respecting Miss Fellows and yourself.
If I can forward your happiness, you
may count on my sympathy and assistance.'


And with these kindly offers of help
upon his lips, Mr Courtney walked away,

leaving Henri De Courcelles bewildered
by what he had heard. Maraquita ill,
and in the Doctors bungalow, with her
secret, perhaps, made patent to the world !
And yet her father evidently knew nothing,
and some one must have stood
her friend, and shielded her from discovery.
But Maraquita about to make
a high marriage, and be lost to him forever.
That was a still more wonderful
revelation, and one which he found
it impossible to believe. Maraquita,
who had so often sat, during their
moonlight trysts, with her arms twined
about his neck, and assured him that
no man but himself should ever call
her his wife. Henri de Courcelles would
never have presumed, without a large
amount of encouragement, to lift his eyes
to his employer's daughter. He knew
that his birth and his position would

both preclude him as a suitor, in Mr
Courtney's mind, and that it would be
considered the height of presumption on
his part to make proposals of marriage
for her. But he had trusted to
Maraquita's influence with her parents,
eventually to gain their cause ; he had
trusted also to certain love passages
which had taken place between them,
to bind her effectually to himself. And
now the announcement of these intended
nuptials did not make him so unhappy
on his own account as they alarmed
him for their mutual safety. What might
not Maraquita say or do, in her dismay
at the prospect of being separated from
him ?

Henri de Courcelles secretly acknowledged
his fickleness with regard to Liz
Fellows, who had loved him well and
constantly all along, and yet he could

not believe that any one else could be
unfaithful to him. The devil invents so
many excuses for us wherewith to cover
our own frailty, but they all disappear
when we are called upon to judge our
neighbour's sin. As soon as Mr Courtney
had left him, Henri de Courcelles, feeling
very uncomfortable under the close examination
to which he had been subjected,
resumed his cigar, and his lounging
attitude, and lay for a long time pondering
over the morning's interview. How much
did the planter suspect, or know ? Had
his assumed warning been only a blind
to entrap his overseer into an open
confession, or surprise him into betraying
himself 1 De Courcelles blessed his lucky
stars that his self-control had not forsaken
him, and that if Mr Courtney
were on the lookout for a probable
lover for his daughter, he had wrung
VOL. I, r

no hint of the truth from him. But
was the story of the fever true ? That
was a point on which he felt he must
satisfy himself, and reaching down a
wide Panama hat, he proceeded at once
into the plantation. He looked handsome
enough, as he strolled leisurely
beneath the trees, towards the negro
quarters, the fine plaited straw hat,
which shaded his features, tipped jauntily
to one side, and a red rose in the buttonhole
of his white drill jacket. But his
face looked perplexed and anxious, and
he gnawed his moustache as he went.
The negroes' huts were situated half a
mile away from his bungalow, but they
were close to that of Dr Fellows, and De
Courcelles knew that in one place or
the other he should find Lizzie, and hear
the truth from her. But as he passed
her cottage, he caught sight of her

sitting at the window, sewing. Her
face was pale, and her eyes red. She
looked as if she had been both sitting
up and weeping, though her print dress
was fresh and dainty, and her glossy
hair carefully arranged. A fear shot
through the heart of Henri de Courcelles,
as he drew near her, but the
bright smile with which she welcomed
his presence, drove it away.

Why, Henri, what brings you here
so early ? ' she asked, from the open
casement.

Didn't I say last night that you
would see me again to-day ? ' he answered,
as he took her band.

Yes, but it is hardly wise of you
to walk about in the sun, unless there
is a necessity for it.'

You are right, Lizzie ; but I am a
messenger from Mrs Courtney ; she sent

me down for the last bulletin of her

daughter.'

Lizzie looked surprised.

How very strange ! I sent up word
by one of the servants half an hour
ago ! '

He felt then he had not lied quite
so cleverly as usual, but he got out of
it by saying, —

The brute has probably taken a
circuit of five miles, in order to attend
to his own business. You know what
these niggers are, Liz. However, give
me the last news of Miss Courtney, and
I will see it is delivered.'

Liz's face grew very grave.

She is better, Henri. I have not
seen her this morning, but my father
tells me so, and that in a few days
she will be quite well I have just
been making her some fish soup.'

Was she very bad with the fever ? '
he asked.

'Very bad indeed. It is lucky I
met her wandering about the plantation,
or I don't know what might have
happened. But there is no need for
anxiety now. All danger is at an end.'

Were you with her in her delirium .'^
Did she — did she — rave much ? I only
ask for curiosity. I have heard that
some of the negroes tried to destroy
themselves during the fever ; and her
parents are very anxious still.'

Are they ? * said Liz carelessly. ' I
thought my father had set their minds
entirely at rest. As I said before, there
is no occasion for it. Quita is quite
sensible now, and only needs to regain
her strength.'

Henri de Courcelles looked much relieved.
He drew a long breath, and

straightened himself against the supports
of the verandah. Liz regarded
him for a moment, and then said, in a
low voice, —

I want to tell you something, Henri.
I have been thinking over what I
mentioned to you yesterday, and I feel
I did you an injustice. I can't tell you
how the conviction has been forced
upon me — but it is there. Will you
forgive me for my causeless jealousy 1
I have no excuse to offer for myself,
excepting that I love you, and I fear
to lose you.'

He only answered, —

I told you plainly you were wrong ! '

I acknowledge it now, but then, I
thought only of what I had heard. But
I see how foolish I was. A long night
of reflection has shown it to me. The
illnesses and troubles of our friends

are enough to make us think, Henri.
We might be struck down tomorrow,
and how doubly sad it would be to go
whilst any misunderstanding existed between
us and those whom we love.'

She spoke so plaintively that his
feelings were touched on her behalf.

There is something more the matter
with you, I am afraid, Liz, than mere
regret for such a trifle. Something
worse than that must have happened
to annoy you.'

No, no ! ' she cried, in a voice of
terror ; ' nothing has happened, I assure
you, Henri ; but life is uncertain, and
I may be sorry some day to think I
ever misjudged you. Things are not
always what they seem, you know, and
unexpected barriers rise sometimes to
foil the brightest hopes. Let us resolve
to be patient with each other, so that

we may have nothing to reproach ourselves
with if — if — anything should occur
to part us.'

The tears were standing in her patient
eyes as she raised them to his, and
the sight affected him. The man was
not wholly bad — none of us are — but
his senses drowned his better feelings.
He knew — even at that moment, when
his whole mind was fixed on Maraquita,
and full of fears for her safety — that
this woman was the more estimable of
the two, that she loved him the best,
and was the most worthy of love in
return. But his heart had gone straying,
and he could not recall it at will.
He could only pat Liz's hand, and
profess to laugh at her fears, all the
while he knew how well founded they
were.

Why, what should occur to part

us ? ' he answered lightly ; * unless, indeed,
you elect to throw me over. But I
thought we had settled that point satisfactorily
last night, Liz ? *

Oh, I was not thinking of that ! '
she exclaimed hurriedly. * It was quite
another idea, and one of which there
is no need to speak of to you now,
for which, indeed, the necessity may
never arise. But we shall always befriends,
Henri — shall we not '^ true and
steadfast friends, whatever may occur .'* '

I don't understand you. You are
speaking in enigmas to me he said
petulantly, as he dropped the hand he
had taken in his own.

They were indeed playing at cross-purposes
— she, thinking only of the
story her father had told her, and he
of Maraquita and her possible revelations.


Liz sighed, and redirected her attention
to her work. The same dissatisfied
feeling which she had experienced the
night before crept over her again, and
turned her sick and cold, and it was
not dispersed when Henri de Courcelles,
after an awkward silence, lifted his broad-brimmed
hat from his brow, and walked
gloomily away.

WEEK had passed away since
Maraquita Courtney had entered
the Doctor's bungalow,
and the moment that Liz dreaded had
arrived — they were to meet again.
Never once had she entered Quita's
chamber during the period of her illness.
Dr Fellows had chosen the oldest, most
stupid, and most deaf negress on the
plantation to attend to his patient's wants,
and sternly forbidden his daughter to
enter her presence. But to-day she was

pronounced convalescent, or sufficiently
so to return to the White House,
and her parents, who were naturally
anxious to have her home again, had
arranged to fetch her away that afternoon.
Dr Fellows had said to his
daughter a moment before, on passing
through the sitting-room,—

Maraquita is up and dressed, and
will be with you in a short time. She
is still weak and nervous. Mind you
say nothing to upset her ; ' and Liz had
promised, feeling almost as nervous at
the idea of the coming interview as
Quita herself could have done.

She had not to wait long. In a
few minutes the bedroom door opened,
and Maraquita, leaning on the arm
of the old negress, walked slowly into
the apartment. She was robed in a
white muslin gown. Her dark hair was

hanging loose upon her shoulders, and
her face was as white as her attire.
There was an ethereal look about the
girl that naturally excited pity, and the
scared expression on her features went
straight to Liz's kindly heart. In a
moment she had sprung to her assistance.


You are still very weak, Quita. Are
you sure you feel equal to leaving your
room ? *

Oh, yes, yes,' replied the girl, in a
petulant tone, as if she did not like the
subject of her illness alluded to. ' There
is nothing the matter with me now,
Lizzie. I could have returned home
two days ago, if your father would have
let me. I really think he is too particular.'


How can he be too particular where
yoti are concerned,' said Lizzie gravely,

as she placed the trembling Quita on
the sofa. * Mr Courtney confided you
to his care, and trusted him to look
after you as if you were his own child,
and father has felt the charge to be a
sacred one.'

He is very good replied Maraquita,
in a low voice ; * but I have not been
so very ill, Lizzie, after all, and I am
all right again now. I hope nobody
will make a fuss about it.'

Liz was silent, for she did not know
what to reply. They had reached a
point where confidence came to a full
stop between them, and she could hardly
have spoken without perverting the
truth. So she tried to change the
subject.

How soon do you expect Mr and
Mrs Courtney to fetch you, Quita.'*'

I don't know. I think the Doctor

has walked up to the house to tell them
I am ready. Mamma will be surprised
to find you didn't nurse me, Liz. Why
didn't you do so ? ' inquired Quita nervously,
as if she wanted to find out how
much or how little of her secret had
been confided to her foster-sister's discretion.


But she had not fathomed the depths
of Lizzie's character. She had sworn
not to reveal what she knew, and she
would have been torn to pieces on the
rack without confessing it. It was useless
of Quita, or any other person, attempting
to force it from her.

'Why didn't I nurse you, Quita ? Not
because I was unwilling ; you may be
sure of that. Simply my father said he
did not wish me to do so, and that was
enough for me. I have been trained
to understand that the first duty of a

medical assistant is implicit obedience.
I have full faith in my father's discretion,
and know that he would not
lay one restriction on me that was unnecessary.
I can tell you no more than
that. Only believe that it was not my
own wish, and that if I might have nursed
you I gladly would.'

It was best not, or you might have
caught the fever. You know that I
have had a touch of the fever '^. ' continued
Quita interrogatively, but with
downcast eyes.

Liz could not answer eyes!

I heard my father tell Mr and Mrs
Courtney so she said, after a pause.

Her reticence alarmed Maraquita. She
didn't like Liss calm, collected manner
and short replies.

Well, I suppose your father doesn't
tell lies,' she answered brusquely.

I have always believed him,' said Liz
sadly. ' But, Quita, you have talked
enough. Your face is quite flushed.
Keep quiet, like a good girl, or you
may not be able to return home with
your parents, and that will be a great
disappointment to them.'

She took up her work again, and
commenced sewing, whilst Quita lay still,
but with a palpitating heart, as she
wondered what Liz could have meant
by evading her question. Could she
have read her friend's thoughts at that
moment, her curiosity would have been
satisfied, though not in the way she desired.
Liz was marvelling, with a feeling
of contempt, as she stitched industriously
at her calico, how any woman could
bring a child into the world, lawfully or
unlawfully, and think only of her safety
afterwards, without one thought for her

VOL. I. K

own flesh and blood ; the flesh and
blood, too, of some one who ottght to
be so much dearer to her than herself.
She sat there, nervously anticipating
every moment to feel Quita's little
hand slip into hers, and to hear her
quivering voice ask for news of her
child.

Liz would have loved her a thousand
times more for the weakness. She would
have forgiven her all her frailty and
wickedness in one moment, and taken
her into her arms with a loving assurance
that her infant should be as carefully
guarded as the secret of its birth. But
no such appeal came from the young
mother. On the contrary, she seemed
anxious and worried about herself alone,
and the only excuse which Liz had been
able to conjure up for her sinfulness,
grew weaker and weaker with the passing

moments. But perhaps, thought Lizzie,
with her ever ready chanty, perhaps
Quita had learned all she wished to
know from Dr Fellows, and her own
hasty judgment of her was a grievous
wrong. But both the girls felt there
was a barrier raised between their intercourse
that had never been there before,
and it was a relief to them to hear the
sing-song chant of the palanquin bearers
as they came through the grove to fetch
Maraquita away.

In another minute Dr Fellows appeared
upon the threshold, accompanied by Mr
and Mrs Courtney, and Quita was in
her parents' arms. In their delight at
receiving her again, they almost forgot
to ask for any particulars concerning her
illness.

Oh, my dear child ! ' exclaimed her
mother impressively, ' I hope you have

thanked Dr Fellows as you should do
for all his attention to you. I don't
believe anybody could have brought
you round so quickly as he has. Your
father and I were dining with the
Governor, Sir Russell Johnstonee, last
evening, and he said that Dr Martin
of the Fort had told him no cases of
fever had been declared convalescent
under three weeks. And here you are.
you see, almost well again in a third of
the time.'

'Not so fast, my dear madam,' interposed
the Doctor. ' As you are naturally
anxious to have her under your own
care, I can pronounce Miss Courtney
to be sufficiently recovered to be moved
to the White House, but I shall visit
her every day, and it will be some
weeks before she is completely off
the sick list. But she must eat as

much as she can, and do as lite as
she need, and she will soon be strong
again.

But if you think it would be more
prudent for her to remain here a little
longer under your care, my dear Fellows,
we are quite willing to leave her,' said
Mr Courtney.

No, no ! ' cried Quita, clinging to
her mother's neck, and sobbing. ' Take
me home, mamma ! I am longing to get
away, and to be with you.'

That does not sound very grateful
in you, my dear,' said her father, ' considering
all that you owe to Dr Fellows,
and lizzie.'

Don't mention it ! ' cried the Doctor
quickly. ' She is weak, and nervous,
and hardly knows what she is saying,
and the worst thing in the world for
her is this agitation. She will be

much better under her mother's care.
Take her home at once, Mr Courtney,
and let this exciting scene be
ended.'

He threw a mantle over Maraquita's
shoulders as he spoke, and placed her
in the palanquin, which was in the
verandah. The bearers raised their
burden to their shoulders and set off
at a walking pace, the rest of the
party keeping by their side.

They had all been so occupied with
the removal of Maraquita, that they
had hardly noticed Lizzie, who stood
at the open window watching their departure.
So this was the end of it !
The last week had passed like an unholy
dream to her, — a dream of which
she had had no time to read the import
until now. Should she ever unravel it ?
Would the tangled meshes which it

seemed to have woven round her, fall
off again to leave her free ? She did
not see the way to burst her bonds,
but she resolved that she must know
the worst concerning herself and Henri
de Courcelles at once. She felt that
it would be impossible for her to live
on, and do her duty as it should be
done, whilst any moment might bring
an exposure to sever her from her
lover. She was still pondering on her
troubles when Dr Fellows slowly reentered
the bungalow.

How did she bear the journey ? '
asked Liz, as she caught sight of her
father. * She seemed to me too weak
to attempt it.'

So she would have been under ordinary
circumstances, but of two evils
we must choose the least. The poor
child's life here was one of torture,

from the fear of detection. She will
feel safer at the White House, and
her recovery will be more rapid inconsequence.'


And meanwhile, she doesn't care
one jot if her infant lives or dies,' said
Liz contemptuously.

Dr Fellows regarded her with mild
surprise.

You are very hard on her, my
daughter. Cannot you make some allowance
for the terrible position in which
she is placed '^. '

I cannot understand it,' she answered.


No, and you never will — thank God
for it. Your sense of right and wrong
is too clear to permit you to be led
astray. But this poor child is very
different in character from yourself She
is weak, and foolish, and unprincipled,

and the scoundrel who has taken advantage
of her simplicity, should be
strung up at the Fort. It seems a
shame that, in order to protect her
good name, he should be allowed to
go unpunished. But perhaps you cannot
understand that also.'

Father, you mistake me ! ' cried
Lizzie. ' I can love, or I believe I
can, as fondly as any woman, and I
can well imagine the force of the temptation
which circumstances might bring
with it. God forbid that I should
judge any error that springs from too
much love, or consider myself beyond
its reach. But I cannot understand the
selfishness that makes a woman shrink
from the consequences of her sin, as
if it had no claim upon her. Where
is the father of this child'* If I were
Quita, I would rather go out into the

world with my baby in my arms,

and beg from door to door by

his side, than run away as she

has done, and leave it to the care of

strangers.'

'Hush, hush!' exclaimed the Doctor
quickly, looking round them with a face
of fear. * Even the walls have ears.
Remember your oath, Lizzie, and never
mention this subject, coupled with her
name, again.'

Let me ask you at least, father, if
you have seen Mammy Lila.'

More than once, Lizzie, and all will
be right there, until I have time to decide
what is best to be done in the future.
But it will be a terrible puzzle, and I
must think it over gravely. I am ill
and weary at present, and would rather
leave things as they are for a month
or two.'

I, too, feel ill and weary,' rejoined
Lizzie sadly. ' I have not liked to
worry you with my own troubles whilst
you were attending on Quita, but now
that she is gone, father, I must ask you
one question. What am I to do with
regard to what you told me on the
night that she came here, and you extracted
that oath of secrecy from me ? '

Do ! What would you do ? ' demanded
Dr Fellows, with a white face.

I don't know. The knowledge seems
to have laid a burden on me too heavy
to be borne. Had I only myself to
consider, my task would be, comparatively
speaking, easy. I could take
care that I suffered alone. But there is
Monsieur De Courcelles ; I must consider
him.'

What has De Courcelles to do with
it?'

Father, how can I contemplate a
marriage with him without first telling
him the truth ? Am I to leave it to
chance whether he finds out or no that
that you did what you told me ? I
could not do it. Such a life would kill
me. I will marry no man unless he
knows the whole story.'

Would you betray my confidence ? '
exclaimed Dr Fellows bitterly. * Have
my long years of secret sorrow
and humiliation not been sufficient
punishment for me, but that my
child will hold me up to public
degradation 1 '

No, no, father ; do not say that !
Not a word that you uttered shall ever
pass my lips without your free consent.
I will do anything rather than repeat
them. I will even give up — Henri de
Courcelles.'

And would that break your heart, my
dear ? '

'Never mind if it breaks my heart!'
she cried, with a sudden storm of weeping
; ' if it must be, it must be, and there
is no alternative. I love him too well
to deceive him, and I love you too well
to betray you. It is no one's fault —
it is only my misfortune ; but I must
end it at once and for ever, or it will
get the better of me. To-morrow I will
tell Henri de Courcelles that our engagement
is at an end.'

Do nothing in a hurry,' replied her
father wearily. * Be patient for a few
days, Lizzie, and we may think of someway
out of this dilemma. You owe it
to Monsieur de Courcelles as well as to
yourself — '

At this moment a young negress, with
a yellow handkerchief bound about her

woolly head, and the tears running down
her black cheeks, hastily entered the
bungalow.

Massa Fellows,' she cried, ' I bring
berry bad news. Poor Mammy Lila
gone to heaven ! Mammy took sick
with fever last night, and no one to
send for Doctor but me, and I got de
chile to tend. So Mammy say, " Gib
me pepper pot, and I all right tomorrow
; " but morning time Mammy go
home. And Aunty Cora come and stay
by her, and she tell me take dis chile
back to Dr Fellows, 'cause Mammy Lila
dead, and dis nigger must go home to
her fader and modern.'

'Why, it's Judy, Mammy Lila's grandchild,
and she has brought the infant
back again ! ' exclaimed Liz, as she saw
the bundle in the girl's arms.

Mammy Lila gone ! Here's a misfortune

to upset all our plans,' said the
Doctor.

Father, what are we to do ? '

We can do nothing but keep the
child here — at all events for a few hours,
Liz. I know of no one else to take
charge of it, or, at least, no one whom
I could trust. To-morrow I will trover
to the Fort and consult Dr Martin
; but for the present it must remain
with you, and I will take this girl back
to Shanty Hill, to see that she speaks
to no one in the plantation. Here,
Judy, give the baby to Miss Liz, and
you shall go back to Shanty Hill
with me. Are you sure that Mammy
Lila is gone ? '

Sure, massa ! Why, she cold as a
stone, and Uncle Josh making her coffin
already. The last words she ses was,
Take chile back to Doctor, and say

Mammy can't do no more ; " and den
she lay her head down and shut her
eyes, and I run for Aunty Cora, and
she say Mammy dead as a door nail.'

'All right, Judy. I'm very sorry to
hear it, but I'll go back with you all
the same.'

He reached down his hat and stick ashe
spoke, and turned to his daughter
before he left the room.

I'll be back in an hour or two, Liz.
Take the child into the inner room,
and don't leave the house till I return.
I didn't know the fever had reached
Shanty Hill. I must see some sanitary
precautions carried out there.'

The young negress placed the infant
in Lizzie's outstretched arms.

You'll be glad to get it back again,
I guess,' she said slyly, as she deposited
it there.

I'm not so sure of that,' replied Liz,
taking no further notice of the remark,
as she carried her burden tenderly
away.

She placed it on the bed, and carefully
unfolded the wrappings round it.
She had a natural curiosity to see the
little creature born of one so near and
dear to her, even though it had no title
but to a heritage of shame. And when
she saw it, the maternal instinct so
strong in the breasts of all good and
pure women rose like a fountain in her
heart, and overflowed for the poor
motherless and fatherless baby thrown
so unexpectedly upon her care.

Maraqulta's little daughter was a tiny,
fraoflle-looklno^ things, with large dark
eyes and a waxen complexion, and a
wistful, solemn expression, as If she were
asking the cold world not to spurn her

VOL. I. L

for her parents' fault. The first view
of her touched Lizzie deeply. She
hardly knew herself why she cried like
a child at the sight of those tiny hands
and feet, those grave, wondering eyes,
and the head of soft, dark hair that
nestled against her bosom. But the
best feelings of her nature rose to the
surface, and her first idea was that she
could never part with the child again,
but would tend and rear it for Mara-quite's
sake. But when she confided
her wishes to Dr Fellows, he shook his
head in dissent.

It would never do, Lizzie. It would
be too great a risk,' he said. * The
child's presence here would excite general
curiosity. The talk would reach Mara-quite's
ears, and its proximity would
unsettle her — perhaps cause her to betray
herself. There is only one safe course

to pursue in these unhappy cases, and
that is, complete separation. Take care
of the poor Httle creature to-night forme,
and tomorrow I will ride over to
the Fort, and see if Dr Martin knows
of any trustworthy woman to take charge
of it. The regiment is to be relieved
next month. If I can get the child
shipped off to England, I shall consider
it the most fortunate circumstance that
could befall it, unless indeed it would
die first, which would be still better.'

Oh, father ! ' cried Liz reproachfully,
as she laid her lips against the baby's
velvet cheek.

It sounds hard, my dear, but it can
inherit nothing but a life of shame and
loneliness, and it would be very merciful
of God to take it. You don't know
what it is to live under the crushing
sense of shame. Besides, it is a weakly

infant, and under any circumstances is
not likely to make old bones

I believe that I could rear it, with
care and attention,' repeated Liz, wistfully.


It is impossible,' repeated the Doctor
briefly, as he left the room.

But in a few minutes he returned,
and walked up to where his daughter
was still crooning over the baby.

Lizzie, I have been thinking over
your wish to tell Henri de Courcelles
my story. But it must not be, my dear
not at least during my lifetime. You
will be angry with me for saying so,
but I don't quite trust De Courcelles.
We have never got on well together.
There is something about him I don't
understand. If I should die, Lizzie,
and sometimes I think it won't be long,
first, you can do as you think fit, but

whilst I live, I hold you to your promise
of secrecy.'

And I will keep it,' replied Lizzie,
as if it had been made to God.'

R and Mrs Courtney could not
sufficiently express their satisfaction
at receiving their daughter
back again. Maraquita was their only
child. She had never had a brother nor a
sister. All their hopes were centred in
her, and in their love they naturally
exaggerated her beauty, and were blind
to her faults. Her father positively
idolised her, and her mother's affection,
though rather languid and effusive,
was none the less real. Had Mrs

Courtney exercised a proper surveillance
over her daughter, Quita could never
have suffered the misfortune she had
just undergone ; but it was not in her
indolent Spanish nature to look after
anything. She had had a suspicion of
Maraquita's condition, but it was only
a suspicion, although the old black
nurse Jessica had known it for months
past. But Jessica had suckled Maraquita
from the moment of her birth, and
attended on her every hour of the day
and night since, and would have died
sooner than have brought one word of
blame on the head of her young mistress.
She had not even let the girl know that
she had guessed her terrible secret, and
so Maraquita returned to her father's
house with as proud a bearing as if
she had done nothing to forfeit the
esteem of her fellow-creatures, and quite

ready to accept all the homage paid to
her. She was carried straight from her
palanquin to a room redolent of flowers,
and laid upon a couch, whilst the household
servants ran hither and thitherto
bring her refreshment, or to do her
service.

Old Jessica was weeping for joy
at the foot of her couch to think
she had got her young mistress safely
back again, and Mr and Mrs Courtney
were almost as effusive in their gratitude
for their good fortune. Meanwhile
Maraquita lay there, lovely and
languid, pleased to see how much
pleasure she gave them by her recovery,
and without a blush of shame
to remember how that recovery had
been attained. Hers was a frivolous,
unthinking nature — easily scared by the
approach of danger, but ready to forget

everything that was not immediately before
her. She was a very common type
of our fallen humanity, intensely selfish,
and only disturbed by the misfortunes
that threatened herself. And now,
she believed that she was safe. Her
secret was known only to the Doctor,
and he had promised her, for her
father's sake, that it should never rise
up against her. So she reclined there,
smiling, with one white hand clasped
in that of her father's, and a bunch of
orange blossoms — emblems of woman's
purity — with which Jessica had presented
her, laid against her cheek.

How lovely our Ouita is looking ! '
exclaimed Mrs Courtney, who was rocking
herself in a cane chair opposite,
whilst a negress fanned her with a
large palm leaf * I really think her
illness has improved her. She was

rather sallow before it. What would
Sir Russell Johnstonee say if he could
see her now.'

Sir Russell Johnstonee,' repeated Quita,
whilst Mr Courtney glanced at his wife
with a look of warning.

Yes, dear, the new Governor ! Your
father and I have seen a good deal of
him lately, and he always inquires most
particularly after you.'

Nita, my desire,' interposed Mr Courtney,
'you must not forget that our
child is still far from strong, and that
Fellows cautioned us against any excitement.'


I don't believe that pleasurable excitement
can hurt any one, Mr Courtney,
but if you think it desirable, I will
drop the subject'

No, no, mother, pray go on. What
was it you were going to say ? I want

to hear all your news. It seems as if
I had been shut up so long. Tell me
everything you can think of about Sir
Russell, and — and — our other friends.
It will do me good to listen.'

Sir Russell will have a great deal
to say to you himself by-and-by I expect,
Maraquita,' continued her mother,
and he will want us to take you upto
see Government House. It is such
a beautiful place. You have not seen
half of it at the balls. And the furniture
is something superb. It will bea
happy woman who is fortunate enough
to be chosen to reign over it.'

Is Sir Russell going to marry, then,
mamma ? '

He wishes to do so, Quita.'

And is the lady in San Diego ? '

He has told your father so, my
dear.'

^ Quita,' exclaimed Mr Courtney, as
the girl turned her lustrous eyes upon
him, * cannot you guess the truth ?
Sir Russell Johnstonee is almost as
eager for your recovery as we are. He
has proposed to me for your hand, and
he is impatient to have your answer.'

Sir Russell Johnstonee, the Governor
of San Diego, wants to marry me ! '
said Maraquita, in a dazed voice.

Yes, my dear. It is a great honour,
but I will not have you biassed,' returned
her father. ' You shall do exactly
as you like about it.'

'Sir Russell.'^' repeated Quita, in the
same dreamy tone. ' But he is so
old, and so ugly.'

'Old!' cried Mrs Courtney. 'Why,
child, you are raving! He is not a
day over forty, and a very good-looking
man, although somewhat bald. But

that has nothing to do with the matter.
It is the position you must look at,
and the honour of the thing. Fancy
being Lady Russell, and at the head
of all the ladies of San Diego, and
then going, by - and - by, to live in
England, and see all the sights of
London, and the Queen, perhaps, and
the Royal Family. Why, that chance
alone would be worth all the rest, in
my estimation ! '

Nita ! I won't have our daughter
persuaded to do anything against her
inclinations.'

Dear me, Mr Courtney, I am not
trying to persuade her ! I am only
showing her the proper way in which
to consider Sir Russell's proposal. Why,
he's the highest match in the island,
and Quita will never get such another
chance if she lives to be a hundred ! '

That's true enough replied her husband,
* but she shouldn't marry the
Prince of Wales himself, if she hadn't
a fancy for him, whilst I have the
money to keep her.'

But stop, father,' interrupted Quita,
there is no harm in talking it over
with mother, and I like to talk of
it. It's a great compliment, isn't it ?
I wonder whatever made Sir Russell
think of me ? '

Oh, my dear girl, don't talk such
nonsense ! ' exclaimed Mrs Courtney.
You must know how pretty you are,
even if nobody's told you so, and that
there's not another woman in San
Diego can compare with you. Sir Russell
has got a pair of eyes in his head
like other men, and he sees you will
make the handsomest Governor's lady
in the West Indies. And so you

will, though it's your mother says
it.'

Maraquita was evidently much impressed
by the news which had been
told her. She lay quiescent on her
sofa, but her large eyes were gazing
Into space, and a faint rose flush had
mounted to her face.

Do you think he is sure to take
me to England ? ' she inquired, after a
pause.

Why, naturally, my love, when his
three years' term is over here. And
he tells me he has a lovely place in
the country there, and he's a Member
of Parliament into the bargain, and
knows all the grandest people in London.
Why, you would live like a queen,
and be the luckiest woman in the
world.'

And we should have to part

with her,' said Mr Courtney, with a

sigh.

Well, I suppose that would come
some day, in any case,' replied his
wife, ' and there'll be plenty of time
to think of it. Sir Russell has only
been in office six months, and by the
time his term is ended, I don't see
why we shouldn't visit England too,
Mr Courtney. You've promised to take
me there, times out of mind.'

Yes, yes ! likelier things have
happened,' said her husband, brightening
up.

And I should have a splendid wedding,
shouldn't I ? ' mused Maraquita.

You should have the grandest wedding
that's ever been seen in San Diego,'
replied her mother, ' and everybody in
the island, black and white, to see it.
It would be a universal holiday, and

we would send for your wedding dress
to Paris, Quita. Monsieur de Courcelles
was telling me the other day that — '

But Mrs Courtney was summarily
stopped in her recital by a burst of
hysterical tears from Maraquita.

Oh, no ! I can't do it ; I don't like
him enough,' she sobbed. * He is old
and ugly. I wont marry him. Don't
say any more about it.'

Of course both her parents were full
of concern for her agitation.

I told you how it would be ! ' exclaimed
the father. ' She is far too weak to hear
so exciting a topic. You should have
held your tongue till she is stronger, and
able to decide the matter herself. Don't
cry, my dearest child. Try and compose
yourself, or I shall be obliged to summon
Dr Fellows.'

You should have more sense,' said

VOL. I. M

her mother decidedly. ' No one wishes
you to do anything that is objectionable *
to you, Quita. There is nothing to cry
for at having a grand proposal made
you. However, let us drop the subject
for to-day, and perhaps you had better
lie down in your own room and have
a siesta. Jessica has prepared it for
you.'

The two women supported the girl
between them to her sleeping-chamber,
when Mrs Courtney despatched the black
nurse for some iced lemonade.

Quita,' she whispered, as she lifted
her daughter on to the bed, * you haven't
deceived me ? There is a mystery about
this illness of yours which may ruin your
whole life. Take my advice, my dear,
and marry Sir Russell Johnstonee. It
will be your salvation.'

But, mother,' whispered Maraquitaback

again, with her face hidden in her mother's
sleeve, ' there — there is some one else'

Do you suppose I don't know that,
and that I needn't go far to find him,
either, Quita ? But no woman ever
married yet, my dear, without there being
" some one else'' But he will be no
good to you, and you must forget him
as soon as you can. You've made a fool
of yourself, and your only remedy lies
in marriage ; but you can't marry him.
Your father would never hear of such
a thing. He looks high for you, and he
has a right to do so. He would as soon
consent to your marrying Black Dandies
— as — '

Hush, mother ! ' cried Maraquita.
Don't speak his name : I cannot bear
it.'

He has behaved like a villain to you,
my dear, and you ought to despise him

for it. It is only for your sake that I
have not had him turned off the plantation.
But if I hold my tongue, you
must promise to think well over the
advantages of Sir Russell's proposal.'

I will— I will—'

It is a perfect godsend, and you would
be a fool to reject it. I can't understand
your being so upset over a piece of good
fortune,' said Mrs Courtney, as she bent
over her. ' I hope — I hope, Maraquita,
that you won't let this folly interfere
with it.'

She said so meaningly, for she had
not failed to observe the manner in
which the young overseer and Mara-quite
had looked at each other on the
occasions of Henri de Courcelles' visits
to the White House. Her daughter
flushed slightly, and turned her head
away.

'Of course not,' she answered pettishly.

But if I did, what of it, mamma ? My
father says I am not to be biassed in
my inclinations, and that means I may
choose for myself.'

So long as you choose an eligible
person, Maraquita ; but you quite mistake
your father if you imagine he will
consent to your marriage with any one
beneath yourself. He is very particular
on that score. You are our only child,
and will inherit all his fortune, and you
have a right to make a good match.
Now, pray, my dear, don't be foolish.
All girls have their little fancies, you
know, but they learn to get over them,
and you must do the same, won't
you ? '

I don't know what you are talking
about, mamma,' replied Quita uneasily.

All I have to think about now, I suppose,

is whether I shall marry Sir Russell
Johnstonee or not.'

My dear girl, you make me miserable
by even suggesting a doubt on the
subject. I am sure of one thing, — if
you dont marry him, you will never
cease to reproach yourself, and be
ready to die of envy at seeing
Mademoiselle Julie Latreille or one of
the other San Diego belles in your
place.'

Julie Latreille ! ' cried Maraquita.
Why, she can't hold a candle to me !
Every one said so at the last regimental
ball.'

Of course she can't, dear, and she
wouldn't know how to conduct herself
as the Governor's lady either. But when
a man is disappointed in one direction,
he is apt to try and console himself in
another. And Sir Russell is very much

in love with you, Maraquita ; I never
saw a man more so.'

Well, he won't expect me to be in
love with him, I hope.'

What a silly thing to say, my dear 1
If you will only consent to marry him,
I'll guarantee that Sir Russell will be
satisfied with anything you may choose
to give him. Of course, you will be
very grateful to him, and kind and
affectionate and all that,' continued Mrs
Courtney as an afterthought ; ' but it
is quite unnecessary that any young
lady should profess to be in love with
her husband. You can leave all that to
the men.'

Maraquita sighed, and said nothing.
She possessed a very warm temperament,
like most people born of a mixture of
bloods, and the prospect of being tied
to a man for whom she did not care,

was most displeasing to her. Her
thoughts reverted to another lover, whom
a marriage with the Governor would
force her to give up, and the tears
gathered in her eyes and rolled slowly
down her cheeks.

Come, my dear,' exclaimed her
mother hastily, as she watched the
signs of her emotion, ' we will drop
this subject for to-day, and you must
try and go to sleep. In a short time
you will see all the advantages of Sir
Russell's proposal, and be very grateful
for them. But at present you are weak,
and must not think too much. I will
leave you alone now, and Jessica shall
fan you to sleep.'

But it was very little sleep that
visited Maraquita's eyes that day, and
it was in vain that old Jessica closed
the green jalousies over her windows,

and brought her cooing drinks, and
fanned her incessantly to keep off the
flies. Quita's large dark eyes were
fixed upon space, whilst she revolved
the question in her mind whether she
could possibly marry Sir Russell John-stone,
and always came back to the
conclusion that it was impossible. When
night arrived, her mother was so distressed
to find the symptoms of fever
strong upon her, that she wanted
to send at once for Dr Fellows,
but Quita entreated her not to do
so.

Mamma, dear, let me have my own
way, and I shall be all right in the
morning. Let me sleep quite alone.
Jessica fidgets me. She jumps up
twenty times in the night to see if I
am asleep or want anything, and when
she sleeps herself she snores. She is

a good old creature, but I'd rather be
left to myself.'

But, Quita, my dear, supposing you
should be ill in the night, and no one
near you!' exclaimed Mrs Courtney.

Why, I shouldn't be able to sleep
myself for thinking of it. Let me sleep
in the next room to yours, my darling.
The curtain can be drawn over the
open door, and you will be as much
alone as if it were shut. And I should
be within call if you required me.'

No, no,' replied the girl fretfully.

That would be worse than having
Jessica in my room, for I should
never be certain when you were coming.
I want to be alone, mother — really
and truly alone — and when the darkness
falls, I shall sleep soundly.'

Very well, my dear,' said Mrs
Courtney. 'If it is your whim, you

shall be indulged in it, but I shall
not dare tell your father that I have
consented, or he will insist on sitting up
with you himself.'

She kissed her daughter then, and
professed to leave her for the night,
but she whispered to old Jessica that
after she had prepared everything that
was necessary, she was to lie down
on the mat outside the door of Mara-quite's
chamber, and listen to every
sound that issued from it.

The old negress obeyed with alacrity.
She possessed the faculty, common to
coloured people, of staying awake for
hours if necessary, and even of sleeping
with one eye open. The inner
door of her young mistress's apartment
opened on a corridor, paved with
marble, but there were two other doors
to it which led out to the garden.

Jessica sat down on a white bear-skin
mat in the corridor, and Hastened for a
possible summons. The night drew on
apace. The lamps were extinguished
throughout the White House, and the
master and mistress had retired to rest.
The coloured servants were sleeping on
mats in the verandahs, and everything
was hushed in silence, when midnight
struck from the large clock over the
stables. The old negress's eyes were
just about to close in slumber, when
she was startled into consciousness
again by the fall of a light footstep
on the matted bedroom floor. Mara-quite
had left her bed. Jessica sat up
straight and listened. The light step
became more palpable. Quita had put
on her shoes and stockings, and was
passing through the door that led to
the plantation. Quick and stealthy asa

panther, and almost as noiselessly,
old Jessica crept round another way,
just in time to see a dark-robed form
walking down the path towards the
overseer's bungalow.

I thinking so,' mused the old woman ;
I sire dat man at de bottom of it I
Curse him ! He's stolen away my poor
missy's heart, and brought her into all
dis trouble, and now she's out of it,
she can't rest without him. Ah, if the
massa only knew, he'd kill him. And
ril kill him if he don't let my missy
alone. I'll make him drink obeah water
and he shall die. My poor little missy
to go through all dis trouble for a
man who don't care for her no more
than he do for Jerusha. If I only tell
Jerusha ! Dat would finish him once
and for ever.'

Meanwhile, Maraquita (for it was

indeed she) was making what haste she
could towards her lover's home. She
felt very weak as she tried to walk,
and her limbs trembled under her, but
she would not give in, for her reputation
was at stake, and what will a
woman not do to save her good name ?
Henri de Courcelles' study or room of
business was at the back of the bungalow,
and he was in the habit of sitting
up there late into the night, reading.
Well did the poor girl know her way
to that room at the back of the house
well did she know her lover's habits
and customs — too well, unfortunately, for
her own peace of mind. Henri de
Courcelles was surprised and delighted
but not startled — when her slight
form passed through the open door,
and stood before him. He knew that
she would come to him as soon as she

was able, but he had hardly expected
she would have been able to do soso
soon. He leapt from his chair and
clasped her in his arms.

Quita, my darling,' he exclaimed,
^ you have returned to me at last ! '

The girl did not speak, but she
clung to his embrace as if she would
never leave it.

You are trembling, my dearest !
You were imprudent, perhaps, to risk
visiting me so soon. Sit down, and let
me lie at your feet and hear all you
have to tell me.'

He placed her in the chair from
which he had risen, as he spoke, and
threw himself on . his knees beside
her.

Do you know what I have suffered
during your illness ? ' he exclaimed. ' I
thought the suspense would have driven

me mad. And then the awful fear
lest you should betray yourself. But
tell me, Quita, Is all danger over ? Is
our secret safe ? '

'Yes!' she answered wearily. 'It Is
over.'

Thank Heaven for that! And no
one Is the wiser.'

No one except Dr Fellows, of course,
I couldn't deceive him. But even
Liz does not know. No one knows
except him — and you and me.'

'And the child, dearest. Where Is
it?'

The girl gave a sudden gesture of
repugnance.

Don't speak of It : I cannot bear
the thought. I am trying so hard to
forget everything. And yet, Henri, I
must speak, for this once only. Dr
Fellows has sent It away to some one

up the hills, but I shall never be happy
till it is out of San Diego. Cannot
you manage it for me ? Can't you
send it away to America or England,
so that I may never hear it spoken of
again ? '

Perhaps you would like me to drop
it in the sea,' he answered gloomily.
It cannot be pleasant for a man to
hear a woman express nothing but
horror of the child she has borne to
him.

I don't know what I want,' rejoined
Quita sadly, ' only I am so frightened
of what may happen. If my father
should ever come to hear of it, I think
he would kill me.'

'No one shall molest you!' exclaimed
De Courcelles sternly. ' You are my
wife, Quita, and the man who injures
you must answer for it to me.'

VOL. I. N

Ah, don't talk nonsense ! ' she said,
shrinking a little from him. * You know,
Henri, that I am not your wife.'

But why should you not be so,
Maraquita ? Why not take the bull by
the horns, and let me confess everything
to your fathers'

What are you thinking of?' she cried,
in a voice of terror. * You would only
bring down his wrath upon my head. He
will never consent to my marrying you.'

Then marry me without his consent,
Quita. Surely that should not be distasteful
to you, after all that has passed
between us. Come, dearest, you love
me, do you not ? You have so often
assured me so. Why not cross with
me to Santa Lucia, and we will break
the news of our marriage to your parents
from there. Say " Yes' Maraquita, for
the sake of our child,' he whispered.

^ \t \s impossible / ^ she said back again.
You are asking me to give up my
father and mother for you. It would
break their hearts. They would never
speak to me again.'

But why not ? They are wealthy,
and you are their only child. They
can enrich any one on whom your
happiness may be placed. They would
be angry at first, naturally, but they
would soon come round, for they could
not live without you, Maraquita. A
few weeks would see us all together
again.'

You are mistaken, Henri. My father
loves me dearly, but his prejudices are
very strong. Only to-night, my mother
was telling me that he would never
countenance my marriage to any one
whom he did not consider an equal
match to myself.'

Heavens ! Maraquita ! Can Mrs Courtney
suspect anything ? '

God knows ! She has not actually
mentioned the subject to me, but her
words fell very much like a warning.
Perhaps they were so. Perhaps she
intended to caution me on my future
conduct. She has at animate shown
me very decidedly that my father expects
me to accede to the views he has
formed for me.'

De Courcelles turned pale.

What views ? ' he stammered. * Mr
Courtney gave me some hints the other
day that you were likely to make a
grand marriage, but I felt — I knew, that
it could not be true.'

But it is true, Henri. Sir Russell
Johnstonee, the Governor of the island,
has proposed for me, and my father insists
on my accepting him.'

'And you will?' cried De Courcelles,
in a voice of anguish.

What am I to do ? ' asked Mara-quite
wildly. ' Can I go to my parents
and tell them I have disgraced
myself ? How would that benefit

us ? I have already told you they
would never consent to my marrying
you. And this marriage will, at
all events, shelter me from any risk
in the future. No one will be able
to harm me when I am the Governor's
wife.'

'You will do it!' exclaimed Henri
de Courcelles fiercely ; ' I feel that you
will do it ! '

At that moment he saw the girl in
her true colours — selfish, avaricious and
worldly - minded, yet, with the insane
blindness of passion, he would have
wrested her from the hands of his

rival, even though his victory bound
him to a life-long curse. His Nemesis
had already overtaken him. He had
seized his prey, but he could not hold
it. He had made Maraquita (as he
fondly believed) his own. In doing so,
he had outraged every law of morality
and friendship. He had even thrown
over Liz Fellows, whom he knew loved
him so purely and truly, and yet his
sins had been sinned in vain. Quita
no more belonged to him than the
plantation of Beauregard did. She was
straining at her fetters even now, and
before long she would burst them altogether,
to become the wife of the
Governor of San Diego. As the truth
struck home to him, De Courcelles'
pain turned to anger.

You cannot ! You dare not ! ' he continued.
* You are in my power, Mara-quite,

and I defy you to throw me
over

Then her bravado changed to craven
fear. She could lie and deceive, and
be selfish and ungrateful, this beautiful
piece of feminine humanity, but she was
a terrible coward, and her lover s Spanish
eyes were gleaming on her like two
daggers.

Ah, don't be angry with me, Henri ! '
she exclaimed pitifully. ' You know how
much I love you. Haven't I given
you good proof of my affection "^ Do
you think it possible that I could
marry any one else of my own freewill?'


Then you will never marry any one
else, Maraquita, for you shall not be
coerced into it whilst I live. But I
don't feel sure of you yet. Will you
promise me, if the Governors suit is

pressed more closely upon you, to save
yourself by flying with me ? '

I will ! — on one condition, Henri.'

What is it ? '

That you will shelter me from the
shame you have brought upon me. /
dare not do anything in the matter,
but you are cleverer than I am, and
may manage it without detection. Only
get it — you know what I mean —
sent away from San Diego, or devise
some plan by which it can never be
brought in judgment against me, and
I — I — will do anything you ask
me.'

You give me your solemn word to
that effect .^ '

My solemn word, Henri,' she answered,
with downcast eyes.

Then it shall be done — if I have
to steal it away with my own hands.

But after we are married, surely then,
Maraquita — ' he said wistfully.

Oh, don't talk of that now ! ' cried
the girl hurriedly. ' It will be time
enough to discuss what we shall do,
when the time arrives. But I must
go now, Henri, or Jessica may miss
me. Perhaps you will come up and
see me tomorrow.'

I will come up, without fail, whether
they let me see you or not. One kiss,
my darling. Remember that I look
upon you as my wife, and no one
shall wrest you from me.'

No one — no one ! ' she answered
feverishly, as she returned his passionate
kisses, and almost wished she had the
courage to be true to him. Yet as
she crept back to her home through
the shadowy, moonlit paths — for she
would not let De Courcelles accompany

her, for fear of being intercepted — she
knew she had been lying, and had
no more intention of marrying him than
before. She had used his entreaties
as a means to her own end, and if
that were accomplished, she would have
no hesitation in breaking the promise
she had given him. She could always
fall back — so she thought — on the duty
which she owed her parents, and if
the great misfortune of being found
out befell her, and the wrath of her
father and mother proved too hard to
bear, why, Henri de Courcelles was
ready and eager to marry her.

Maraquita did not argue with her
own conscience in so many words, but
such were the thoughts that flitted
through her brain as she traversed the
slight distance between the overseer's
bungalow and the White House, and

noiselessly re - entered her chamber.
Jessica, who had watched her go and
return, never closed her faithful eyes
in slumber until she was assured that
her young mistress was safely in her
bed again, and, for the first time since
she had sought it, fast asleep.

E AN WHILE Lizzie Fellows,
unconscious of her lovers infidelity,
sat up the livelong
night, cradling his deserted infant in her
arms. Whilst the members of the White
House were wrapped in slumber, and even
Maraquita and Henri de Courcelles had
gained a temporary relief from their
perplexities, and everything was hushed
and silent in the Doctor's bungalow,
Liz rocked the wailing infant to and fro,
or slowly paced up and down the room

singing a soft lullaby to try and soothe
it. But the puny little creature refused
to be comforted. It wanted the warmth
and shelter of its mother's bosom, and
bleated as pitifully for it as an orphaned
lamb standing beside the dead body of
the ewe on a bleak hillside. Liz, who
had had a great deal of experience with
children, tried all her arts to quiet it
in vain. The baby was determined she
should have no rest that night.

Poor wee mite,' she whispered, as
she laid her cheek against its face, and a
natural instinct made it turn its soft lips
towards it to find the breast. * How
can she leave you to the care of
strangers ? How can she sleep in
comfort, not knowing if you cry, or are
at peace ? If you were mince I would
die sooner than give up my mother's
right to feed and cherish you, yes, even

if the world stoned me for it. How I
wish I might bring you up for my
own little girl — my little tiny Mara-quite
! '

How startled we should be sometimes
if the wishes we carelessly utter were
to be immediately fulfilled ! Liz little
thought as she crooned over the unconscious
baby, that the hour was rapidly
approaching when her puzzle would be
not how to keep it, but how to get rid
of it. Yet so it was.

All that night she walked the room
with its little downy head nestled close
to her bosom, and its tiny fingers locked
round her own. A dozen times she
warmed the milk, of which it could only
take a few drops, to keep the flickering
life in its frail body, and covered it
warmly with flannel, to increase the
circulation of its blood, although the

hot night air permeated the apartment.
It was so feeble, that sometimes she
almost thought its heart had stopped
beating, and uncovered it with a sudden
terror. But the infant slept on, although
each breath it drew seemed like a wail,
until the shadows dispersed, and the
glorious West Indian sun rose like a

o

king, and flooded the island with his
glory. There seemed to be no dawn
to the watcher, or rather it was so
momentary, that the night changed as
if by magic into day, and the windows
of heaven were thrown open suddenly
to let the sunlight stream upon the
land. It was the waking signal for all
life. The big magnolia flowers opened
their creamy blossoms as they felt its
rays ; the trumpet creepers unfolded
their leaves ; the mimosa spread herself
out as though she would bask in the

returning light. A hundred scents filled
the morning air, and from the grove of
trees came many a chirp — first singly
and then in twos and threes, as the
birds encouraged their mates to rouse
themselves, and come forth to pick up
the insects before they hid in the long
grasses from the noonday heat. From
the negro quarters was borne a sort
of humming sound, as of a disturbed
bee-hive, as the Aunt Sallies and
Chloe and Uncle Toms turned out
of their beds, and made their toilets
in the open air. The morning had
broken. It was five o'clock, and in
another half-hour the overseer would be
amongst them, and accept no excuses
if the whole gang were not drawn up
in readiness to march down to the
cotton fields or the coffee plantation.
Liz sat in her room with the baby

on her knee, listening for the sound
of his mustang's feet. How often had
she been roused from her sleep as
they passed her window, and breathed
a prayer for her lover's safety before
she laid her head on her pillow again
or watched for him after a night's
vigil, and given him a bright smile
and a wave of her hand as a morning
welcome. But to-day she shrank from
seeing him. A cloud had risen between
them, with the knowledge of her
father's secret, which made her afraid
to meet the eyes of the man from
whom she would be, perhaps, but too
soon parted for ever. Besides, were a
look from her to bring him to the open
window, the sacred trust she held in her
arms might be betrayed. Liz blushed
as she wondered what explanation

she could possibly give Henri de
VOL. I. o

Courcelles of the child's presence there,
and how curious he would become to
learn its parentage, and moved further
from the window as the thought struck
her.

She need not have been afraid. She
heard his palfrey canter by, and caught
a glimpse of his handsome figure as he
rode past the bungalow ; but his head
was filled with thoughts of Maraquita,
and how he could accomplish the task
she had set him, and he never even
turned his head in her direction. Liz
sighed as she observed the defalcation.
It was foolish, no doubt, and unworthy
of a sensible woman, for her first wish
had been to avoid him. But who is
sensible in love ?

The little child was sleeping soundly
at last, and Liz laid it on the pillows
of her bed, and commenced her morning

toilet. The thought of her father
had suddenly struck her. If he was
to ride to the Fort that morning and
consult Dr Martin about a foster-nurse
for the baby, it was time he was roused
and went upon his way. The cool
hours are soon over in that climate,
and when the sun has fairly risen, it
is unsafe for any European to ride
about, and her father had not looked
well of late.

The excitement of Maraquita's illness,
and the necessity for concealment, had
told on Dr Fellows, and made his
face more drawn and haggard than it
had been before. And though he had
brought much trouble on her, and
might prove the cause of her losing
what she most cared for, still Lizzie
loved him dearly, and pitied more than
she blamed him. To live for years

under a load of shame and the fear
of detection, what greater curse could
any human creature be called upon to
suffer ? Liz's own burthen sunk into
insignificance beside it.

Her mind reverted to her early days,
when she used to wonder why her
father's hair was grey, whilst that of
Maraquita's was brown, or why Mr
Courtney played hide - and - seek with
them in the plantation, whilst Dr Fellows
shook his head and told her such
games were only meant for little boys
and girls. Liz understood it now, and
felt almost glad to think she could
show her sympathy with all he had
gone through, even though she had to
sacrifice her own future in order to
pass it by his side.

Meanwhile Henri de Courcelles had
completed his journey, and reined in

his steed at the negroes' quarters.
The hands were all ready to receive
him — the men chiefly dressed in white
or striped linen jackets, with dark
blue trousers, and the women in print
petticoats, and gaily coloured orange
or crimson handkerchiefs knotted about
their woolly hair. They were a fine-looking
set of coolies, all free menas
they were termed by courtesy, butin
reality as much slaves as any before
the passing of the Abolition Act. They
were not all of African blood. Many
had come from the East Indies — had
been shipped across in hundreds at a
time from Calcutta to San Diego,
under a promise of higher pay, and
less work, than they could obtain in
their own country, and had been
landed penniless and powerless, to find
themselves compelled to take any wages

that were offered them, and do any-work
they were ordered, because they
had no means of returning to India.
These cooHes were not so muscular
and capable of hard labour as the
Africans, but they were handsomer, both
in face and figure. Some of the women
had almost perfect features, and were
lithe and supple as young roes ; but
they all bore, more or less, an expression
of melancholy. They were not
so well able to cast off care, and
make the best of the present, as
their companions in slavery, but they
were more crafty and more desirous
of revenge. Amongst them — standing
very much to the front, in fact, as
if she wished to attract attention — was
a young girl of perhaps fifteen — the
age of a child in our country, but of
a grown woman in hers. She was

tall for her nationality, and had a
beautifully rounded figure, with tiny
hands and feet, and a face fit for a
sultan's harem. She was evidently a
coquette, and thought much of her
personal appearance, for a bunch of
white flowers was twined in her long
plaits of hair, and a crimson handkerchief
was tied across her bosom. In
her arms she held an infant of a few
months old, a lusty crowing boy, who
showed evident signs of having a mixture
of white blood in his composition,
and of whom his mother seemed inordinately
proud. She was standing
so close to Henri de Courcelles' horse,
that as he dismounted he brushed up
against her, and so roughly as almost
to knock her infant out of her arms.

Ah, sahib ! take care of the little
baby ! ' she cried warningly.

Who's that ? Jerusha ! Then keep
your cub out of my way, will you ?
Now then, my men, are you all ready ?
March ! '

The coolie girl frowned ominously as
the overseer addressed her, but she
made no answer. Only as the rest
of the labourers moved off in single
file to the fields, she remained to the
last, sulking, as if she had no intention
to move.

Now then, Jerusha ! ' exclaimed Henri
de Courcelles impatiently, as he told off
the last negro, and saw her standing
there. ' Make haste, will you ? ' and
he cracked the whip he held as he
spoke. He seldom used the whip. It
was only his insignia of office, and
served as a signal for starting, but it
sounded differently in Jerusha's ears that
morning.

You dare beat us ? ' she demanded
menacingly.

I am not going to beat you, but
I dare do anything, so don't be a
foot he replied, half laughing.

'I'm sick,' persisted Jerusha. 'The
child kept me up all night. I'm not
fit to work. Sahib must let me go back
to my hut.'

I will let you do no such thing,'
replied De Courcelles. * You're only
shamming. You're as " fit " as any
woman on the plantation, and you
must work like the rest. Now, move
on, and look sharp about it.'

But Jerusha was obstinate, and had
got the bit between her teeth. She
considered herself a privileged person,
and at one time had been able to do
pretty much as she liked with the
overseer. But that time was past. He

was tired of her, and disposed to
treat her, in consequence, a Httle more
harshly than the rest. Jerusha had
reckoned without her host when she
thought she could give herself airs.
When De Courcelles ordered her to
rr»ove on, she shrugged her shoulders
and stood still.

Now, are you going ? ' he asked
her sharply.

I telling sahib I'm too sick.*

And I tell you you're a liar. If
you won't move of your own accord, I
will make you.* He raised his whip
as he spoke, and Jerusha observed the
movement.

You don't dare strike me ! ' she said
defiantly ; but before the words were
well out of her mouth, he had done
it, and the long lash curled round her
shoulders and stung the baby's cheek,

and made the youngster squall. Jerk
big black eyes flashed fire on
him.

You coward,' she cried, * to strike
your own child ! Some day I pay you
out for this. Some day my whip strike
you

He laughed carelessly at the girl's
threat as she joined the gang of
labourers, and he flung himself across
his palfrey's back, and rode after them.
But after a while, when the sun's
rays began to beat rather fiercely on
his Panama hat, and he found his
servant had neglected to fill the straw-covered
flask that hung at his saddlebow,
he called the yellow girl Rosa
and gave the flask to her, and
directed her to carry it to the Doctor's
bungalow.

Ask Miss Lizzie to fill it with

fresh sherbet or milk for me, Rosa,
and tell her I am coming in to breakfast
with her by-and-by.'

The residents in hot climates invariably
partake of two breakfasts ; one a
light meal taken at break of day, and
the other a more substantial one, which
they can discuss at leisure when the
morning's business is concluded. Rosa,
who was a lazy wench, who preferred
running messages, or doing odd jobs,
to regular work at any time, ran with
alacrity to the Doctor's bungalow, and
began to sneak around it. A negro
employed on business can very seldom
go straight to the matter in hand.
He generally slinks about first, peering
into windows, and listening at doors,
and on this wise it came about that
Rosa's cunning face was very soon to
be seen at the open window of Liz

Fellows' room. The apartment was
empty, Liz having just left it to goto
that of her father, but from a
bundle of flannel on the bed proceeded
a wailing cry, which roused all
Rosa's curiosity. The black people
are proverbially curious, but this was
a case in which the offence might
surely be termed a venial one. And
with poor Rosa too, who had so lately
been bereft of her own child.

As soon as she recognised the cry,
she leapt into the room through the
window, and rushed up to the bed.
Yes ! it was actually a baby, and a
white baby too, and in Miss Liz's
bed ! What inference but one could
be drawn in any ignorant mind from
such a circumstance ? Miss Liz, who
had been so angry with her for the
same thing ; who had said her poor

little Carlo had better never have been
born ; who had talked so much to her
of virtue, and purity, and the sanctity of
marriage. Miss Liz had a baby in
her bed, that she had never told anybody
about ! Here was a glorious opportunity
for revenge. Rosa's eyes rolled
about and showed their yellow whites
as she thought of it. Miss Liz hadn't
pitied her, or so she chose to believe.
Why should she pity Miss Liz ? And
why shouldn't Massa Courcelles, and
all the niggers, and the people at the
White House, know what she had
done '^. The engagement between Liz
and Henri de Courcelles had been kept
so secret that no one could say it was
a positive fact, but most of the plantation
hands knew he had courted the
Doctor's daughter, and believed that
it would end in marriage. Rosa showed

all her white teeth as she chuckled
over the idea that now perhaps the
overseer would have nothing more todo
with Miss Lizzie, and she would
be pointed at and scorned, as Rosa
had been, when first she appeared
out of doors with little Carlo in her
arms. As the yellow girl thought
thus, she slipped off the bed, where,
she had mounted to better examine the
baby, and left the room as noiselessly
as she had entered it. A cunning
idea had flashed across her brain, —
that if Miss Lizzie caught her there,
she would hide the infant, and no
one would be ever the wiser. So she
must get back to the field without
seeing her, and invent some excuse
for her return, on the way. She was
quite ready with it by the time she
reached the side of De Courcelles,

and she lied so glibly that at first
he did not suspect her of an untruth.


Miss Liz have got no sherbet,
Massa ! She very sick all night, and
drink all de sherbet. But Miss Liz
want to see you berry particular and
berry directly, please, Massa. She
got something berry important to
say ; and she tell me, — " Rosa, go
and fetch Massa Courcelles here directly,
and come back with him all de
way." '

That's a curious message, Rosa.
What does Miss Liz want you for?'
asked De Courcelles, as he turned his
steps towards the bungalow, with the
yellow girl by his side.

How can / tell Massa Courcelles ?
Perhaps Miss Liz want me to mind
de baby a bit. Perhaps she want to ask

my 'pinion. Miss Liz know how well
I look after my poor little Carlo 'fore
de fever come and taken him to
heaven

The words naturally attracted the overseer's
attention.

The baby ! ' he exclaimed, taken off
his guard. * What do you mean ? '

Rosa's cunning eyes looked full into
his own.

You not know ? ' she said inquisitively.
' Miss Liz not tell you she got
a little baby at the bungalow — and in
her own bed too ? Ah, Miss Liz berry
sly — but it's truth, Massa. I have seen
it with my own eyes. A little white
baby, too, only dressed like a little nigger
in a cotton shirt.'

Rosa, you must be dreaming. You
are lying to me,' said Henri de
Courcelles, suddenly alive to the dan-vol.

I. p

ger of the girl's discovery. How
can Miss Liz have a baby at the
bungalow ? '

*Ah, Missy Liz knows that best
herself,' replied the yellow girl, with
an oracular nod ; ' but it's God's truth,
all de same, Massa, and dere's not
much difference 'tween white gal and
taller gal, after all. Miss Liz berry
angry with me because little Carlo
come a bit too soon, but dere's a baby
come to her now, and I shall have my
revenge.'

Don't talk nonsense ! ' exclaimed
De Courcelles ; 'and don't presume to
speak to me in that way of Miss
Liz.*

But though he affected to be angry,
he saw a light glimmering through the
clouds of perplexity that overshadowed
him, all the same. What if this child

for he could not doubt which child
Rosa meant — should be taken by the
plantation hands for Lizzie's ? How
fortunately the circumstance would divert
public suspicion from his poor Mara-quite
! It never occurred to him what
a piece of dastardly cruelty it would be
to shift the blame from one woman
to the other, so selfish does the
madness of passion render us. But
he could not understand how the infant
came to be at the bungalow, and
he was painfully curious on the subject.


Massa Courcelles not believe me .^ '
continued Rosa, as they drew in sight
of Lizzie's window ; * then Massa just
come here and look for himself

The yellow girl was standing before
the open casement, and beckoning to
him as she spoke, and something

stronger than mere curiosity urged him
to obey her summons. He drew near
on tiptoe, and peeped in. The infant
was still lying on the bed, its tiny
face uncovered to the air.

De Courcelles was not a man much
subject to the softer emotions, but ashe
looked at it, he trembled. In another
moment he had started backwards,
for the bedroom door opened,
and Lizzie herself appeared upon the
threshold, and, taking up the baby,
carried it into the outer room.

Now do you believe I telling lies ? '
exclaimed Rosa triumphantly, as she
looked up into the overseer's pale face ;
and before he could prevent her, she
had run round the house, and in at the
front door.

Fearful of what discovery might
follow her intrusion, De Courcelles

hurried after her, and arrived just intime
to see the mock curtsey which
she dropped to the Doctor's daughter.
Lizzie herself, taken at a disadvantage,
and utterly unprepared at that early
hour of the morning for visitors,
was standing by the table, white
as a sheet, holding the baby in her
arms, and apparently unable to say a
word.

'Good morning, Miss Lizzie!' cried
Rosa, with another deep reverence.
Massa Courcelles and I jest come
round to see you and de new
baby, and to ask how you both do
to-day.'

What do you mean ? ' said Lizzie,
though she knew well enough, as she
stood before them white and trembling.


Ah, Miss Lizzie, you berry sly.

You know berry well what I mean. I
want to see dat nice baby of yours.
Is he like my little Carlo ? Ah ! I
know he's white, like his modern, but
I will love him all de same, if you will
let me.'

Henri,' said Lizzie, with an assumption
of great calmness, in order to cover
the shaking of her voice, ' will you
stand by silent and hear this girl insult
me?'

Certainly not,' he replied. * Go back
to the field, Rosa, and continue your
work. You said Miss Lizzie asked you
to return with me, or you should not
have come.'

She deceived you,' said Lizzie. ' I
have not seen her nor spoken to her
this morning.'

I know dat berry well,' cried Rosa
impudently ; * but I come to see dat

baby of yours, and I bring Massa
Courcelles to see it too. And now I
will go back to my work with a light
heart, for I wish you joy, Miss Lizzie,
and I hope de Lord won't send for
dat baby of yours same He did for my
poor little Carlo,' and with another
curtsey, the yellow girl turned on her
heel, and ran out of the bungalow, leaving
Henri de Courcelles and Lizzie together.


She was the first to speak.

Had you any knowledge of Rosa's
intentions when she brought you here ? '
she asked quietly.

Not the slightest, upon my honour,'
he replied. ' I sent her to you with
my empty flask, to beg a little sherbet,
and she returned with a message that
you desired to see me at once, and
that she was to accompany mee back

again. On the way, she told me a
story that I found it almost impossible
to believe.'

And what was the story ? '

That — that — you have a white
infant at the bungalow. Is it
true?'

You can see for yourself that it is
true ! What then ? '

Whose child is it ? Where does
it come from ? ' he asked, in a nervous
voice, for he fully believed that, being
alone, she would confide the secret of
Maraquita's shame to him.

But she was silent. •

Why will you not tell me ? ' the
continued, more boldly ; ' it is impossible
but that you must know. You
cannot be sheltering a child of
whose origin you are not aware.'

Why should it be impossible } ' she

answered ; * might I not have found
it, or adopted it ? '

^ Nonsense ! ' he rejoined impatiently ;
where did you find it then ? '

Again she was silent.

Lizzie ! I resent this want of confidence
between us. Considering how
we stand to one another, I have a
right to ask you whose child that is.
Do you know what Rosa thinks and
says about it ?'

It is nothing to me returned Lizzie
proudly, ' what Rosa may think or say.'

But it may be a great deal tome.
-It is not very pleasant for me
to hear your name handled and defamed
by the black brutes I look
after, — to know they speak of you
lightly, and say — '

What do they dare to say 1 '
she exclaimed, as she turned and

faced him, with the infant on her

breast.

That that infant is your own ! '
There was the silence of a minute

between them, and then she said, ina
low voice, —

And what do you say ? '

'That I require to be satisfied who
it belongs to, and that you must tell
me.*

/ cannot ! '

There was such an amount of quiet
despair in her voice as she pronounced
the words, that De Courcelles felt at
once that Maraquita's secret was safe,
and that she would not disclose it
even to him. And with the conviction,
came a glad, unworthy satisfaction that
her guilt and his would be concealed,
even at the expense of their most
faithful friend.

Yoii cannot ? ' he repeated, in a voice
of feigned astonishment. ' But I say
you must, or everything shall be over
between us ! '

Henri ! ' she exclaimed earnestly,
think — think what you are doing.
You cannot possibly suspect me ! Why,
I — I — love yotc I ' she ended falteringly,
as if that confession must clear herat
once, and for ever.

It's all very fine talking he answered
roughly, ' but facts are ugly things ; and
if there is any honourable explanation
of them, I have a right to demand
it. You have a newly-born infant in
your arms, and all the plantation is
talking of it. If you are not its
mother, who is ? '

Lizzie turned away from him proudly.
Go and find out for yourself,' she
said. ' If you can suspect me even for

one moment, sou are unworthy of my
affection. I will not lower myself to
contradict your base suspicion. Think
what you will, and act as you think
best. I can tell you no more than I
have done already.'

Then I am to believe Rosa s
story ? '

You can believe what you choose.
This child was given in trust to me
by my father, and I am not at
liberty to speak to you, or any one,
concerning it. It is by an unhappy
accident that it has even been
seen. I cannot remedy that, but I
can prevent the mischief going further.
If you cannot accept my word that
it bears no relationship to myself,
I can do no more than deny it.
On any other subject, my lips are
sealed.'

Admiration for her sisterly devotion
and fidelity had almost made him forget
the part he had to play ; but the
thought of Maraquita came to his
assistance, and nerved him to complete
his cruel task.

Well, I v^ill not court your confidence
further, Lizzie,' he said, rising,
but you must consider our engagement
at an end. It would be impossible
to be happy in married life
with a secret like this between us.
You may have told me the truth, but
I am not convinced of it ; and where
there is distrust, there can be no
love. Let us part now, and forever.'



For the first time, the extent of the
sacrifice she was making seemed to
strike Lizzie's mind.

No ! no ! ' she screamed, rushing

after him ; ' I cannot part with you
thus ! Oh, Henri ! think a moment !
Think how I have loved you ! Can
you imagine it possible that I should
have been so false to you — so false
to myself ? I swear to you on my
knees, and before God, that this child
is not mine. Will not that content
you ? '

No ! nothing will content me now
not even if you attempted to cast
the blame on some one else. You
have spoken too late, Lizzie. Nothing
but conscious guilt would have
kept your lips closed until this moment.'


You shall not believe it of me ! '
she exclaimed vehemently. ' I will not
throw my good name away so recklessly.
My father is sleeping still. He
has been ill and weary lately, and I

thought it kind to let him rest ; but
he would never forgive me for letting
him sleep on whilst his daughter's fair
fame was being called in question.
Stay but one moment, Henri, and my
father shall tell you that I speak the
truth.'

She flew past him to the Doctor's
sleeping apartment as she spoke, and
Henri de Courcelles, anxious to know
the best or worst at once, stood where
she had left him, gazing after her retreating
form.

But in another moment a piercing
cry of agony sent him to her side.
He found her standing by the bed,
staring at her father's still, cold
features.

He is gone ! ' she exclaimed wildly.
See here, Henri, he is dead — dead,
and can never now release me from

my oath ! O God ! have pity on
me ! '

And with that she fell to weeping
over the prostrate form.

dead!' echoed De Courcelles, momentarily
awed into the reverence we
all feel at the approach of the White
King. * But now, at least, you are free
to tell me the truth, Lizzie.'

Never ! ' she cried. * My lips are
sealed as his own for evermore. If
I could keep my vow to the living,
how much more do you suppose will
I hold it sacred to the dead ? Act as
you think right, Henri, but I will never
tell you the name of the mother of this
child.'

Then all is over between us,' he
returned, as he slunk away, heartily
ashamed of himself, and yet with a
load lifted from his breast as he remembered

that he had unconsciously,
but surely, obeyed Maraquita's behest,
and might boldly claim the reward she
had promised for it.

END OF VOL. I.

VOL. I.

COLSTON AND Company, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

'J%

OF Shame

By JriE/\i)THo(\ Of

My Sister the Actress

W H. SMITH & SON'S

SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.

FOR Subscribers OBTAmi»a wm Mors f"«OM A COl"'™,S"''- « M<, 1».

£0 12 •• 11"

For THREE Volumes „ ** " '.' i 8

For FOUR ,- »» •' " "* i 15

For SIX , »<

For TWELVE „ „

m

¥J^^-^2

m

OF THE

U N I Verity

Of ILLINOIS



L4r5c
V.2

VOL. II.

A NOVEL.

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR OF

'love's conflict,' 'my sister the actress,

ETC., ETC.

In THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

\^All rights Te served"]

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

Content TS.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/crownofshamenove02lean

Now ready, in One Vol. , the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY; or Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange
Winter. Author of ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also picture boards, zs.

A ho now ready, in cloth gilt, 35. td. each.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By John Strange

Winter. Also picture boards, 2s.
IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart.

THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author.

BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing O't.'
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron.
A DEVOUT LOVER. By the same Author.

TWILIGHT TALES. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Illustrated.
SHE CAME BETWEEN. By Mrs Alexander Eraser.
THE CRUSADE OF ' THE EXCELSIOR.' By Bret Harte.
A REAL GOOD THING. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
CURB AND SNAFFLE. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
DREAM FACES. By the Hon. Mrs Fetherstonhaugh.
A SIEGE BABY. By John Strange Winter.
MONA'S CHOICE. By Mrs Alexander. Author of ' The Wooing O't.'

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Soutliaiiiptoii Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

CHAPTER I

|E left Liz weeping over the
1^3^ dead body of her father.
^^^^^ How paltry all other troubles
seemed to be, as she did so. She
had no power, at that moment, to
realise any fact but one, — that he had
left her, and without a warning. He,
who had been her sole protector and
companion, beside whom she had walked

VOL. II. A

every moment of her life, sharing his
knowledge, and his duties, and his cares,
had gone forth into the dreamland without
her, and for the future she must
struggle through life as best she might,
alone. Liz was not ignorant of the
cause of her father's death, but she
had been quite unprepared for it. She
had known for some time past that
he had a weak heart, but men lived
with such, sometimes to their threescore
years and ten. He had passed
a tranquil and unexciting life. The
passions which had raged stormily perhaps
in his youth had forsaken him
in his latter days, and he had appeared
likely to live on to a good old age.
But the events of the last week had
greatly upset him. Liz had no doubt,
as she looked at his pale, calm features,
that his sudden death lay, in a great

measure, at Maraquita's door, and the
fact did not make her feel more
tenderly towards her adopted sister.
But the infant was wailing in her arms,
and she felt that something must be
done at once. This was no time for
weeping, or inaction. She turned on
her heel, with set features, and teeth
closely clenched together, and passed
into the outer room to summon her
negress attendant Chloe to her aid.
Chloe was conspicuous only by her
absence, but on the threshold of the
outer door she found the yellow girl,
Rosa, slowly rocking herself to and
fro.

What are you doing here ? ' demanded
Lizzie sternly. * Have you not
brought me into enough trouble already } *

The girl turned round and caught
the folds of her dress, and buried her

face in them, crying. The coloured
people are very emotional, and a sudden
remorse had stabbed the depths of
poor Rosa's heart.

Oh, Miss Lizzie she sobbed, ' I've
so sorry the poor Doctor dead! Massa
Courcelles tell me so as he went out.
The dear good Doctor, who was so
berry kind to me in my sickness, and
so good to my little Carlo, and now
he gone too, and me nebber see him
any more, and my heart is broke, Miss
Liz, my heart is broke ! '

This tribute to her dead father's
virtues affected Liz more than anything
else could have done.

If you are so sorry for his loss,
Rosa,' she answered gently, ' what do
you suppose / must feel. I seem to
have lost everything to-day — everything
she added, in a vague and weary tone.

Oh, Missy Liz, I'se so sorry ! ' repeated
Rosa. ' But what can I do to
help you, and to take some of dis
trouble off you ? Let me do something,
Missy Liz, to show I'se real
sorry.'

You can go up to the White House,
Rosa, and tell Mr Courtney of — of — this,
and say I should like to see him as soon
as he can come to me. I can't find Chloe
anywhere.'

Ah ! dat Chloe no good. She too
stupid ! ' cried Rosa, with all a negress's
jealousy. ' And may I come back, too.
Missy Liz, with Massa Courtney, and
help you nurse the baby, same as you
helped me with little Carlo ? '

The allusion to the child brought
the trouble it had caused her too vividly
to Lizzie's mind. She dropped into a
chair, and burst into tears.

Oh, Rosa ! Rosa ! you have spoiled
my life for me. How could you be so
cruel ? '

The yellow girl crawled on her knees
to the side of the Doctor's daughter.

Missy Liz, what I done so bad?
Isn't dat baby your own baby, then ? '

Of course it isn't ! How could you
think such a thing of me ? It is a
little nurse - child which was left in
charge of my dear father, and I was
minding it for him. But you made
Monsieur de Courcelles believe that it
belongs to me, and you have parted
us for ever. He was to have been my
husband, Rosa, but he never will be so
now ; never — never ! '

Rosa's eyes opened with surprise.

Missy Liz, you must tell him I'se a
liar. I know noting of de baby, only I
see it on your bed, and I'se so sorry

I speak to Massa Courcelles about it. It
was de debbil spoke, Missy Liz, and not
me. Something seem to come in my
head and say dat chile Hke my little
Carlo, and you no better den me. But I
see now Tse all wrong, and you too good
to do such a dreadful thing. You tell
Massa Courcelles I'se a liar, and it'll be
all right again, Missy Liz.'

No, Rosa, it will never be right again
in the way you mean. I did tell Monsieur
de Courcelles what you say, but he
refused to believe me. No one will believe
me now, I am afraid,' said Liz
mournfully, ' and I must bear the brunt
of my own rash promise.'

Oh ! Missy Liz, must you keep dat
baby dat isn't yours, and take de trouble
of it all your life ? '

I think so, Rosa. I have nowhere to
send it ; and you would not have me turn

it out on the cold world alone ? No, my
dear dead father left it to me as a sacred
charge cried Lizzie, weeping, ' and I
will guard it, whatever it may cost me.
It will be something to do for his sake

Oh, Miss Lizzie ! ' exclaimed Rosa,
awed by a display of heroism she could
not understand, ' you berry good woman !
I nebber know till dis day how good a
woman you are. Let me stay with you,
Miss Lizzie. Send dat Chloe back to
huts, and let me be your servant, 'stead
of her. Chloe don't know muffin of
children. She not had a little boy, like
me. Let me nurse dat baby for you,
and I will be faithful, trust me. Missy Liz,
and nebber let de debbil speak through
my mouth again.'

I believe you, Rosa,' replied Lizzie.
I believe you are sorry for the mischief
you have done, and that you

would undo it if you could. You were
a good mother to little Carlo, and you
would be a kind nurse to this poor
little one. If it can be managed, it
shall be arranged so, but we can do
nothing without the leave of Mr
Courtney. Go now and tell him of
the grief I am in, and we will talk
of these things another day.'

But I will come back and hold de
baby for you, Missy Liz ! ' exclaimed
the yellow girl, as she set off towards
the White House.

Liz walked back into the death
chamber, and mechanically performed the
necessary offices to prepare her father's
body for the grave. She did not weep
again as she did so. The blow of her
two great losses, coming so quickly one
upon the other, had stunned her, and
dried up the sources of her tears, She

would have time to think and weep, she
thought, by-and-by. When Mr Courtney
arrived post-haste in answer to her summons,
his grief appeared to be scarcely
less than her own. He had been sincerely
and deeply attached to this erring
friend of his youthful days, and had
never anticipated losing him so soon.
He shed tears freely over the silent
corpse, and kept on assuring Lizzie that
her future should be one of his first
cares.

Don t let that trouble you, my dear,'
he reiterated. ' I looked upon your dear
father as my brother, and you shall
never miss his protection whilst I can
extend it to you. From this moment,
Lizzie, I shall regard you as my
daughter, and as soon as the sad ceremonies
which we must go through, are
concluded, I shall carry you off to the

White House, and consider you second
only in my affection to Maraquita.'

Dear Mr Courtney, you are too good
to me,' gasped Lizzie, ' but — but — please
don't speak of my future to me to-day.'

No, no, of course not. It was
thoughtless of me,' said the planter ; ' but
I did it with the view to set your mind
at ease. To-day we must give up entirely
to thoughts of my dear and valued
friend.'

He imagined that the girl's mind was
too distracted to dwell on anything but
her great loss ; but Lizzie had remembered
that before the morrow, the
scandal that was being spread abroad
concerning her would reach his ears,
and render her unfit in his eyes to bethe
companion of his daughter.

When he had told her what arrangements
he had made for the funeral,

which (according to the custom in hot
climates) was to take place that evening,
Mr Courtney, with a farewell grasp
of his dead friend's hand, turned to leave
the bungalow, when his eye fell upon
the yellow girl, Rosa, squatting on the
floor with the baby in her arms.

What infant is that ? ' he demanded
indifferently, for it was so wrapped up
in flannel that he could not see its
face.

Liz had anticipated the question, and
dreaded it ; but she felt evasion would
be useless, and had not attempted to
send the child out of his sight.

'It is a little girl which was confided
to my dear father's care,' she answered,
in a low voice. * And he was going to
consult Dr Martin at the Fort about a
nurse to take the charge of it, when he
was called away.'

Mr Courtney's eyes opened somewhat
at her explanation.

Is It a white child then ? ' he asked.

Yes, it is a white child,' replied Lizzie,
with a deep sigh, as she stood trembling
at what might follow. But Mr Courtney
said no more on the subject. Perhaps
his mind was too full of his lost friend
to think of minor things, anyway he left
the bungalow without another word or
look, and Lizzie breathed more freely
when he had gone. She spent the remainder
of the day beside the remains
of the father whom she had loved so
well, and when the sun had sunk in the
west, and the cool sea breezes commenced
to blow over San Diego, she
followed his coffin to the little European
burial ground, which was situated on the
top of a hill, and in full view of the
glorious ocean. She saw that there

were many friends, both white and
coloured, gathered round the open grave
but she was In no fit condition to recognise
who they were. Only, as the last
words of the solemn service were concluded,
and she heard the sods of earth
rattle on the coffin lid, and felt as If she
must throw herself In with them, and
be burled with all she loved best In
this world, she found some one supporting
her falling steps on either side,
and looking up saw she was standing
between Mr Courtney and Captain
N orris.

Come, my dear child,' whispered the
former. 'It Is all over now. Let us
see you safely to your home.'

They led her between them back to
the empty bungalow, and the three
friends sat down together In the ,
whilst Rosa squatted In the

verandah with Maraquita's baby in her
arms. Liz, making an effort to battle
with her emotion, busied herself with
setting some light refreshment before
her guests. Mr Courtney drank a
glass of iced sherbet in silence, and
then cleared his throat as though to
force himself to speak.

Lizzie, my dear, I have a good
deal to say to you, and I wish to
say it now. I might leave it till tomorrow,
but I think it will do you
good to fix your mind at once upon
business, and to settle what you are todo
in the future.'

Lizzie turned a little paler than she
had been. She had understood her
future to be settled that morning. But
she guessed why it required further explanation
now.

Captain Norris, than whom I think

your dear father had no wanner friend,
has been talking to me on the subject
this afternoon, and has consented to
become the guardian and trustee of your
Interests.'

I am of age,' interrupted Lizzie, with
open eyes ; ' I require no guardian.'

Stop, my dear, and let me finish what
I have to say. You may not require a
personal guardian, but your monetary interests
may need looking after. I am not
likely to forget you at my death, Lizzie.'

Indeed, Mr Courtney, you are too
good to me,' said Liz, — * as you were to
my poor father,' she added, in a lower
voice.

Your father was my dearest friend : I
can never forget that,' replied the planter ;
and I am only following the dictates of
my affection for him in making a suitable
provision for his daughter. I have been

thinking the matter over deeply, Lizzie,
and I have decided that I cannot spare
you from amongst my coolies. Why
should you not carry on the work from
which your father has been so suddenly
called away ? I know you are competent
to do so, from what he himself has told
me, and in any difficult cases you can
always call in the assistance of the Doctor
from the Fort. What I propose is that
you should continue to live in this
bungalow (the furniture and effects of
which I shall make over to you as your
own property), and to work amongst the
coloured people ; and I will gladly pay
you the same remuneration as heretofore.
Don't you think it will be the best plan,
Lizzie, and that you will be happier if
you bravely try to forget your grief, in
carrying on a life of activity and usefulness
? '

VOL. II. B

I am store it will be best,' she answered,
in a low tone.

Her pride, which had made her divine
at once the cause of her benefactor's change
of mind, would have also prompted her
to refuse his offers of assistance, but she
was helpless in the matter. She had no
friends to go to, no resources to fall back
upon. What could she have done, left
alone in San Diego, but live on chanty,
which she would rather have died than
accept ? Mr Courtney's proposal was at
least not a humiliating one. He offered
her money in return for her labour, and
she was resolved to earn it, and thanked
Heaven she was capable of doing so.
That he should not even have alluded
to his promise of the morning wounded
but did not surprise her. He had heard
the wretched slander, which was doubtless
already going the round of the

plantation, concerning her. Henri de
Courcelles had, perhaps, repeated it, and
Mr Courtney already regretted that he
had held out hopes he could not fulfil.
Well, he should not read her disappointment
in her eyes. She would put a
brave face on the matter, and battle (as
best she could) for herself; for the oath
she had taken to her dead father was
doubly sacred, now that all hope of release
from it was over.

We will do all in our power to make
your life comfortable,' continued Mr Courtney
; ' and you may always depend on me,
Lizzie, as your friend.'

He did not Include his wife's and
daughter's friendship with his own, and
Lizzie noticed the omission, and shrunk
under it.

Mr Courtney,' she said, In a firm
voice, though her eyes were full of tears,

I thank you for your offers of assistance,
and I accept them gratefully. I did not
know till a few days back, the whole
extent to which my poor father was indebted
to you, but I shall never forget it,
and if I can ever repay it in the slightest
degree, I will.'

Hush, my dear! It was nothing.
Don't speak of it now.'

It was his life, Mr Courtney, and I
should not be his daughter were I unmindful
of it. I should have liked to
relieve you of the burden, now he is gone,
but I don't know what I could do, without
friends, and in a foreign country. So
I will remain on (as you are good enough
to propose), and work among your plantation
hands, and do all I possibly can to
return your kindness to us both.'

Lizzie, my dear, I don't wish you to
think of it as if it were a favour. The

obligation Is quite as much on my side.
And you mustn't speak of yourself as
friendless, either, my dear. You have
friends on all sides, I am sure of that.
You know what / feel towards you ; and
here is Captain Norris, grieving only
second to myself for your loss ; and everyone
in San Diego loves and respects
you. You may take my word for that,
Lizzie.'

Mr Courtney had risen, as if to take his
departure, whilst he spoke, and now stood
in the doorway, with his straw hat in his
hand, and beckoned her towards him.

By the way,' he added, in a lower
tone, ' what do you intend to do about
that child, Lizzie. ? ' jerking his head towards
Rosa and the baby.

What should I do about it ? ' she returned.
' I know no place to send It to.
It was In the charge of Mammy Illa, but

she died of the fever. I suppose I must

keep it here.'

Where are its parents ? ' demanded the
planter inquisitively.

It has none, Mr Courtney, or none
who will own it.'

Dear me ! That is very strange, and
very awkward. Who confided it to your
father's care ? '

I am not at liberty to tell you, sir.'

Do you know then ? '

She paused for a moment, and then
answered, in a husky tone, —
Yes.'
And you will not tell me, Lizzie ? '

I am bound under a solemn oath, Mr
Courtney, not to reveal anything about
that child, and I must beg of you not to
question me.'

It looks bad for you, my dear, and maybe
the cause of a great deal of future

unhappiness. There are not so many
Europeans on the island that such an
event can occur without comment ; and if
you persist in holding your tongue on the
subject, people will talk about it, and to
your disadvantage

Then they must talk, Mr Courtney,'
replied Lizzie boldly, though she had
turned very pale. * I cannot break my
promise to my father, for any consideration,
not even to save my reputation.'

Lizzie,' whispered the planter presently,
* promise me at least to send the
child away. Let me send it away for you.
You don't know what people are saying
about you. Even De Courcelles has heard
the rumour, and came to me for an explanation
of it. I will ask you no questions,
my dear, but let me help you In the
matter by sending the Infant to one of the
sister islands. I cannot bear to think that

any one should dare to say a word against

you, for your father's sake.'

You are very kind, Mr Courtney, but I
have made up my mind on this subject,
and the child will remain with me. Sending
her away now to the care of a hireling,
will not remove the stain her presence
here has cast upon my character ; and I
have reasons for wishing to bring her up
myself. If you object to it, I will relieve
you of the burden of both of us ; but that
infant is my father's last charge to me, and
I will keep it.'

If you would only trust me with the
secret of its birth, I could fight your battle
with you,' said Mr Courtney sadly.

I will trust no one, sir. I have lost all
that I cared for in this world, through it's
means, and I will at least have the satisfaction
of knowing that I have remained
true to myself.'

Very well, my dear ; good-night ; and
remember I am still your friend,' replied
the planter, as he walked slowly away.

Lizzie looked after him for a moment,
and then returning to the apartment, and
regardless of the presence of Hugh Norris,
she flung herself into a chair, and burst
into a flood of tears.

Still my friend /' she repeated. 'Yes,
but a friend without any trust or confidence
left in me. Ah ! what is the use of his
assurances ? I can read his heart too
well ! I have not a friend left in the
world.'

S she said the words. Captain
N orris sprang towards her.
Not a friend left in the
world, Liz ! Oh ! how can you say
such a cruel thing whilst I am here ? '

She could not answer him immediately
for weeping, but she stretched
forth her hand and laid it on his arm.

Forgive me, Captain N orris. I know
that you are my friend, but grief makes
us all selfish. Yet that they should think
such a thing of me, — that even Mr

Courtney, who has known me from a
little child, should suspect me of so unworthy
an action, it is bitterly, bitterly
hard;

You are speaking in riddles to me,
Lizzie ! Of w/iat do they suspect you ?
Surely of nothing of which you need be
ashamed ? If so, they must answer to
nie for it. Your dead father honoured
me with his friendship, and no one shall
insult his daughter whilst I am able to
prevent it.'

I should have known that I might
count upon your championship, Captain
Norris ; but it is useless. I have entangled
myself in a net from which I
see no prospect of freedom. You must
leave me to bear the consequences by
myself.'

I shall do no such thing ! ' replied the
Captain warmly. ' What is the worth of

friendship if it cannot stand by you in
the time of need ? Confide in me, Lizzie.
Tell me your trouble, and let us devise
a way out of it together.'

We cannot do that,' replied Lizzie
mournfully ; ' but you shall hear it, all the
same. If I did not tell you, San Diego
would soon do so. All the hands are
talking of it by this time. Even that
yellow girl in the verandah is ready to
believe me to have fallen to a level
with herself.'

You alarm me ! * exclaimed Hugh
N orris. ' What is it they dare to say
of you ? '

That that child is mine ! '

What child ? I did not know there
was a child here.'

You are the last to hear of it then,'
replied Lizzie bitterly. ' The smallest
lad on the plantation has discussed it

before now. I mean the infant which
Rosa has in her arms. It is not mine !
I hope you will believe me when I say
so. But I have no means of proving
the truth of what I say.'

You surprise me beyond measure,'
said Captain N orris. ' In what does the
difficulty lie, and why cannot you appeal
to the real parents to help you out of it?'

Captain Norris, you must not question
me too closely, lest I should betray a secret
I have sworn to keep. Be satisfied with
what I tell you. It was only yesterday
my father gave me that child to nurse
for him. He asked me to keep it through
the night, and in the morning he would
get a proper person to take charge of
it. You have heard the sequel. By
the morning, God had called him away,
and I am left with this burden on my
hands for ever ! '

But, lizzie, forgive me if I do not
follow you. What reason is there for
your keeping the child ? What interest
had your father in it ? Why should you
not send it to the people he intended to
entrust it to ? '

Perhaps I might have done so if this
suspicion had not fallen upon me ; but
nozu, what would be the use of it? Absent
or present, the child will be regarded as
mine. I shall have to bear the stigma ;
I may as well have the satisfaction of
knowing I have fulfilled my dead father's
wishes.'

Do you know who are the parents of
the child ? '

Lizzie was silent.

I see that you do. Surely they will
never permit you innocently to bear this
awful shame ? '

Captain N orris, when my father first

showed me that child, he extracted a
solemn oath from me never to reveal
anything I knew or might guess concerning
it. It is useless your questioning
me. My tongue is tied, and whatever
my silence may cost me, I am bound to
endure.'

But surely your lover, De Courcelles,
does not believe this slanderous lie about
you, Lizzie ? He will stand up in your
defence, whatever the world may say, and
fight it with you ? '

Oh, don't talk of him ! Don't mention
his name ! ' cried Lizzie, with a sudden
burst of grief. ' He does believe it,
Captain N orris, and he has cast me off.
We are parted for ever. Our engagement
is at an end.'

The cur ! ' exclaimed Norrls contemptuously.


You shall not call him so ! What else

could he do ? ' rejoined Lizzie hastily.
What would you do, if the woman you
had engaged yourself to marry, proved
to be a wanton ? You would say she
was not fit to be your wife, and you
would be right. Until this stigma is
lifted off me, I am not fit to become the
wife of any honest man.'

But it does not rest upon you, in my
estimation,' replied her companion. ' I do
not believe it ; no one should ever make
me do so except yourself. I would take
your word against that of a thousand
witnesses, Lizzie.'

Thank you, thank you ! ' she exclaimed,
reddening with pleasure at the sound of
his honest voice. ' You are indeed a
friend in the time of need. But Monsieur
de Courcelles thinks otherwise. He
has told me to my face that unless I will
divulge the names of the parents of this

child, everything between us must be at
an end. And so it is at an end. I cannot
break my word to the dead. Besides
there are other reasons why I should
be true to my trust.'

You will at least tell me one thing,
Lizzie. You know to whom this child
belongs, do you not .^ I ask it in your
own interests.'

M do.'

Then go to them, my dear, and tell
them the dilemma in which the promise
you have given on their account has
placed you. Ask them to release you
from it. Surely no one could be so
inhuman as to desire their shame (for
I presume shame is at the bottom of
this mystery) to spoil the life of an
innocent woman ? Oh ! if I only knew
their names myself, I would proclaim
them far and wide, until I forced

VOL. II. C

them to release you from this cruel

bondage

It is impossible, Captain Norris!'
Impossible for you to go to them ? '
Impossible that my going could do
any good in the matter. I cannot rid
myself of the blame, without shifting it
on the shoulders of another, and that
my oath forbids me to do. Pray leave
me, Captain Norris. Leave me to bear
it as best I may — alone ! You heard
what Mr Courtney has kindly proposed,
that I shall live on here, and continue
my dear father's work. I mean to do
so, and if God spares the child, it shall
live with me. The coloured people will
not despise us. They have too many
of such cases amongst themselves, and
for the rest, I am strong enough to suffer
without sinking under it.'

But not alone, dear Lizzie ! ' exclaimed

Hugh Norrls, taking her hand. * If your
engagement to Monsieur de Courcelles
is indeed broken off, let me speak again.
You would not listen to me last week
on his account; listen to me now on your
own. Come to me, and let me fight the
battle of life for all three of us — you
and me and the child. If it were really
your child, \J\z7a^, I should say the same.
When I told you I loved you, I did not
mean that I loved some ideal creature
raised from my own imagination, but soit
yourself, with all your faults (if you
have faults) and follies (which cannot be
greater than my own), and am willing
to condone everything, for the privilege
of loving you. Let me try to make you
forget this sorrow. In England, amidst
new scenes and new friends, you may
learn to feel differently, even towards
me, and look back on San Diego as a

bad dream, that has passed away forever.'


Lizzie pressed his hand gratefully.

How good you are to me,' she answered,
' and how true ! I am sure you
will make the best and most loving of

o

husbands, and some woman will be very
happy with you. But that woman will
not be me ! I would not wrong you, my
dear friend, by accepting your generous
proposal. Why should I cast this
shadow over your honourable life, or
profess to offer you a heart not worthy
your acceptance ? I love Henri de Courcelles
! Ah ! don't shrink from me. I
know he is unworthy and unjust, nor
can I believe he has ever really cared
for me ; but he managed to win my
love, and I cannot take it back from
him so suddenly. By-and-by, perhaps,
when this wound is somewhat healed,

and time has enabled me to see more
clearly, I shall be strong enough to
shake off the fascination that enthralls
me ; but just now, I can only weep
over Its decay, as I weep over the grave
of my lost father. And so you see
how utterly unworthy I am of the noble
offer you have made me.'

'Not In my eyes persisted Hugh
Norrls. ' I can never think of you but
as the dearest and most self-sacrificing
of women, and I shall keep the place
in my heart open for you to my life's
end. But I will worry you no further
now. Only say If I can do anything for
you, Lizzie, before I go.'

Nothing,' she sighed. ' Unless It be
to come to see me again, and comfort
me as you have done to-day.'

His face brightened with pleasure at her
proposal, and he acceded to It joyfully.

I will come up tomorrow if it will
not be too soon he answered. ' I have
not landed my coolies yet, and the
Trevelyan may be in port for some
weeks yet

How is that ? ' demanded Lizzie.

On account of this fever, and also of
the town riots. My consignee is afraid
of both moral and physical infection.
There was an attack planned on Government
House last night, and only just
discovered in time. The rebels had laid
a train of gunpowder right under the
state rooms. There would have been
a fearful sacrifice of life had they succeeded.'


How terrible ! Were they caught ? '

Unfortunately they were not, for they
got off to the Alligator Swamp as soon
as the alarm was given. And no one
dares follow them there : the danger is

too great. They are watching outside
it, however, and as soon as they come
out, they will be killed or arrested.'

Poor creatures,' said Liz, with a
shudder, 'they will not be able to hold
out long. Twelve hours in the Alligator
Swamp is said to be certain death. It's
poisonous atmosphere kills all those who
escape the alligators. It is too fearful to
think of.'

Yes, I fancy the poor devils will be
forced to surrender, and they will get
no quarter from the Governor, Sir
Russell Johnstonee. He is in a great
state of alarm about himself, and resolved
to stamp the insurrection out at
any cost.'

One cannot blame him. It is a casein
which the few must suffer for the
many. Is the Governor a nice man,
Captain Norris ? '

So - so. A very ordinary - looking
Englishman, — more fit to till his own
acres, I should imagine, than to govern
a colony. He has certainly done little
as yet to quell the ill-feeling in San
Diego, which seems to be increasing
every day. But I shall not be able to
keep my coolies on board much longer.
There are six hundred of them, and I
shall not be sorry when their backs are
turned. I have had enough of their
company on the way from Calcutta.'

But they will make a bad exchange,
I expect, from the hold of the Trevelyan
to the cotton and sugar plantations. I
have heard poor father say you spoil
your coolies, Captain Norris, and make
them quite dissatisfied with their reception
in the West Indies.'

Oh, that's a libel ! ' cried the young
man, smiling. ' I may have tried to make

their life aboard ship as Httle irksome
as possible, but it has gone no further.
But I am afraid they are mostly shipped
under false pretences, and led to expect
less work and more pay than they
are ever likely to get In these islands.
Their existence, at the best, is hardly
worth living.'

You are right there, and no one
who has dwelt amongst them, as I have,
could fail to sympathise with their
troubles. They have much to bear,
and little to compensate them for it.
And with all their faults, they are a
patient people, although very impulsive.
That poor girl in the verandah did mea
bad turn this morning, but she is
ready to break her heart about it now.'

'Ah, Missy Liz, I'se so sorry!' cried
Rosa, who had overheard the words
that concerned herself.

But you can't undo the mischief, you
see, Rosa, so try and make up for It by
being a faithful servant to your mistress
now,' said Hugh N orris, as he passed
over the threshold on his way home.

The yellow girl did not take correction
from a stranger very well. She
shrugged her shoulders, and pulled a
face after the retreating form of Captain
N orris, as she entered the bungalow with
her infant charge.

What business of that Massa Norrls
to speak me ? ' she Inquired, pouting.
'If he want to scold some one, he'd
better go and find dat coolie girl Judy,
what took the baby first. She's a berry
bad girl — rude and impudent — with a
tongue as long as an alligator's.'

Do you mean Mammy Illa's granddaughter
? ' Inquired Lizzie. ' When did
you see her, Rosa ? '

Oh ! she's big enough to be seen,
Missy Liz, and she's just as cunning
as they're made. Judy has left Shanty
Hill now, and come to live alongside of
her own people, and dis morning Massa
Courcelles has given her work on the
plantation. And dat gal's tongue — how
it do run ! '

About ite, I suppose ? ' said Liz
bitterly.

Yes, Missy Liz — that's just it — about
you. Judy tells every one how you went
up to Shanty Hill in the middle of the
night wit dis poor little baby in your
arms, and how you was so ill and weak
you nearly tumbled down on de floor ;
and Mammy Lila took de baby, and you
tell her, " Silence and secrecy,' which
means, '' Don't tell muffin to nobody on
your life." '

And every one believes it was my

own baby I took to Mammy Lila, Rosa,

the same as you did ? '

What can they believe, Missy Liz ?
I didn't know what to believe myself.
Dere's not too many quite white babies
knocking about de island, you know, and
dis little one has no coloured blood in
it. Dat's plain to be seen. And dat
Judy is so impudent. She'd say anything.
She says she steered you so
when she brought the baby back again
when Mammy Lila died, dat you nearly
fainted, and it was de shock and de
trouble that has killed de poor Doctor
right away.*

Well, well, Rosa, don't speak of it
any more at present. It turns my heartsick
to hear it. Take the infant into
my room, and put it to bed. Judy's
talk, however untrue, can do me no
further harm ; and you mustn't forget,

whilst judging her, that you thought and
said pretty much the same yourself.'

Ah, yes, Missy Liz ; but den I'se
berry sorry, and I'll be a good gal to
you now,' replied Rosa, with the nigger's
ready excuse for anything they may have
done wrong.

And I believe you, so let the matter
rest,' said Lizzie, as the yellow girl disappeared
with the baby, and she sat
down at the table, resting her head upon
her hand.

What a difference twenty-four hours
had made in her life ! Twenty-four hours
ago she had possessed a father who loved
her, a lover who respected her, friends
who believed in her, a good name and
a spotless reputation. Now, she seemed
to have lost everything at one fell blow.
Her father was gone, her lover lost, her
friends stood afar off. She was publicly

spoken of as an unmarried mother, and
Maraquita's sin was laid at her door.
And she had no means of repudiating
the scandal. Nothing but her bare word
stood between her reputation and the
world. Who would believe her ? What
woman would not deny such a crushing
shame ?

Her solemn oath to her father, the
fathomless obligation under which they
stood to Mr Courtney, the awful consequences
to their benefactor which must
follow a revelation of the truth, stared
Lizzie in the face, like giant obstacles
that forbid her even attempting to surmount
them. What would she and her
dead father have been but for the generosity
extended to them through life by
the planter's hand ?

He, a felon and a convict, and she,
the daughter of a disgraced and dishonoured

man, pointed at by the finger
of scorn, shunned by the community of
the virtuous and honest, a pariah and an
outcast amongst men. No wonder her
father had exacted her silence and obedience
at the price of her salvation.

But would Maraquita be so untrue to
all the Instincts of honour and justice as
to permit her adopted sister to continue to
bear the shame which rightly belonged to
herself? Liz remembered Hugh Norris's
advice to her to seek out the parents of
the child, and beg them to clear her good
name in the eyes of the world. The
counsel was good. She only knew of
Quita as the mother of the infant ; but
she could, at all events, secure an interview
with her, and implore her to confess
the truth to Mr and Mrs Courtney, and
relieve her from so intolerable a burthen.
Surely, thought Lizzie, if Quita knew what

she was suffering — and likely to suffer —
she could not have the heart to refuse
her! Little Quita, whom she had held
In her arms as a baby herself — who had
learned to walk clinging to her hand —
who had shared her girlish pleasures and
sorrows with her, and told her all her
secrets (except this last terrible one) —
surely Qtdta would never blast her whole
future in order to shield herself from the
consequences of her sin !

Perhaps she did not know about Henri
de Courcelles ! Liz had loved this man
too deeply to talk upon the subject ;
and as the engagement had never been
publicly ratified, Quita might not be
aware of the cruel separation her guilt
had caused between them. If she knew
that — if she were told that some one
whom Liz loved as fondly as ever she
could have loved the father of her child

must be given up for ever, unless she
spoke out — surely she v^ould muster up
courage to remove the heavy load she
had laid upon her childhood's friend.

As Lizzie arrived at this conclusion,
she lifted up her head and breathed more
freely. A light was breaking through her
darkness. Perhaps, after all, she had condemned
her adopted sister too hastily, and
should have waited to see her before she
passed judgment. The time had been too
short, and events had been too hurried, to
enable Maraquita to do her justice. Perhaps
she was even ignorant of the blame
cast upon her; and with this last charitable
thought of her adopted sister, and a resolution
to see her on the first opportunity,
Lizzie sought her bed, and tried to compose
herself to sleep.

VOL. II.

ARAQUITA was lying in her
silken hammock, swinging under
the orange trees, and thinking
over the events of the last few days.
They had been important ones for her.
The unexpected death of the Doctor had
frightened her beyond measure, and more
than ever did she feel that Henri de
Courcelles owed it to her to make every
exertion in his power to remove the
proof of her shame from San Diego.
Until that was done, she should have

no rest. But she was very undecided
about Sir Russell Johnstonee. She didn't
wish to marry him — all her heart (such
as it was) was set on Henri de Courcelles
— but yet she wanted to be the
wife of the Governor of San Diego, and
certain hints from her mother had shown
her it would be the best, and perhaps
the only way, to get out of the scrape
she was in. And if she refused Sir
Russell Johnstonee, it would be all the
same ; her parents would never consent
to her marrying Monsieur de Courcelles.
Maraquita tossed to and fro as she
thought over these things, and made the
hammock swing as far as its cords
would admit, till the orange blossoms
and their glossy leaves swept across her
face, and old Jessica, who was watching
from below as usual, called out to her
young mistress to take care. Quita was

trying to argue the matter out with herself
(as silly people will) so as to make
the pieces of the puzzle fit each other
and please everybody all round, being
too blind or too selfish, meanwhile, to
see that the only person she was really-bent
on pleasing was herself She believed
that in a very few days she would
be called upon to decide the matter, for
her mother had received a letter from
the Governor to ask if her daughter had
returned to the White House, but she
was hardly prepared, as she lay there
that morning, to see Sir Russell's
barouche, with its pair of English
horses, and its outriders, dash up the
drive, and stop before the portals of
her home. She flushed so rosy at the
sight, that Jessica observed her emotion.
Dat only de Governor, missy, come
to see Massa Courtney. De Governor's

a fine gennelman, Isn't he, missy ? Got
beautiful coat and trousers and waistcoat
on, and fine whiskers, and nice red face.
Dat Government House a beautiful place,
too, and dat carriage lovely. I'd like to
see my missy in a carriage like dat, wit
fine English horses, and coachman, and
all.'

What nonsense you are talking, Jessica,'
said Quita querulously, as she
turned her head away. ' Papa's carriage
is quite good enough for me, and I
don't want any other.'

Ah, but some day my missy marry
fine gennelman, and have everything dat's
nice and beautiful. Not one of des
island fellers — overseers and such like,*
continued the negress contemptuously,
with half de blood black in their veins,
but a real English gennelman, with
plenty money, and all white blood.'

Maraquita reddened, and yawned, and
turned pettishly away. She knew well
enough to whom old Jessica was alluding,
and she resented the hint as an
impertinence.

Meanwhile Sir Russell Johnstonee had
rushed into the presence of Mr and Mrs
Courtney.

Fancy, my dear sir,' he was exclaiming,
* that yesterday the police actually
discovered a train of gunpowder laid
right under the banqueting - room of
Government House ! Had it not been
for their vigilance, at the next dinner-party
I gave, we might all have been
blown up — I, you, your wife, even your
lovely daughter. It is too horrible a
catastrophe to contemplate ! '

Horrible indeed ! ' echoed his host.
• But are you sure that all is now safe ?
Has a thorough search been made ? '

They tell me so, and that I need have
no further alarm. But It has shaken my
nerves, I can tell you that. And the
delinquents are not caught either, though
the native police are on the alert'

How is that ?'

They have escaped to the Alligator
Swamp ; though why they can't pursue
them there, beats me altogether.'

'Ah, my dear Sir Russell,' cried Mr
Courtney, ' you don't know what the
Alligator Swamp Is like, or you would
not be surprised. Even a negro will not
venture to enter It, unless he Is in fear
of his life. It is a regular morass of
green slime. It is impossible to tell at
each step you take whether you will sink
to the bottom of It or not ; and It Is infested
with alligators or carmen of the
largest and most ferocious breed. No
living creatures but the carmen could

breathe such an atmosphere ; for the
green swamp raises poisonous fungi, the
vapours alone of which are almost certain
death. These wretches who have
plotted against your life cannot possibly
escape punishment. If they do not fall
into the hands of the police, they will
certainly die, the victims of the pestilential
atmosphere of the Alligator
Swamp.'

I am glad to hear it,' replied the
Governor, who was a short, stout man
of ordinary appearance, and with rather
a round and rosy face, * for I don't consider
my appointment worth the risk of
being blown up. The island seems tome
to be in a regular state of rebellion,
and I don't like it. If any more plots
against my safety are discovered, I shall
resign, and return to England. Her
Majesty would be the last person to wish

me to remain if there is the slightest fear
of danger.'

'Oh, there must not be — there shall not
be ! ' exclaimed Mrs Courtney pathetically,
as the pictures of a retreating Governor
and a lost son-in-law floated before her
mental vision. ' These wretches must be
brought to judgment, and executed. I
would have them all hanged, if I were
you. Sir Russell. The idea of their
attempting such an outrage ! Hanging
Avould be too good for them.'

I am not sure if I can hang them ;
but, if so, you may be sure I will,' rejoined
the Governor. ' Why, it makes a
man quite nervous of going to his bed.
It's absurd — ridiculous — an insult to the
British Government ! '

It must be stamped out at any cost,'
said Mr Courtney ; ' and until it is — until
things are more settled — if you would like

to vacate Government House for a little
while, and would accept the hospitality
of Beauregard, Sir Russell, why, all I
can say is, that everything I possess
(humble as it may be) is at your service.'

But wouldn't they say I had runaway
? ' replied the Governor. ' I should
like it above all things, but the papers
have been rather spiteful about me of
late, and I am afraid they would declare
I had shown the white feather.'

But you must think of your own
safety — that is the first consideration,
surely ! ' exclaimed Mrs Courtney. ' And
you must think of others too, Sir Russell,
of those who care for you. My poor
Maraquita will be in a fever of anxiety
as soon as she hears this news.'

She had begun to be afraid that
his own peril had somewhat displaced
Maraquita from the Governor's thoughts,

ad the Idea that he might even be
frightened out of San Diego without
fulfilling his promise, filled her with
alarm. She determined that if possible
the engagement should be ratified at once,
and then, if anything further happened
to frighten Sir Russell back to England,
he would be compelled to take his wife
with him. Her ruse had the desired
effect, and the mention of her daughter
turned the Governor's thoughts in another
direction.

Ah, the beautiful Miss Courtney.
Pray don't think that I have forgotten
her, in the exercise of my functions.
To quell this native rebellion is the
first duty I owe to my Queen and
country, but my heart has been at the
White House, my dear madam, all
the time. How is your sweet daughter?
Have you told her of my proposal ?

Is It possible I may have the great
pleasure of seeing her ? '

Mrs Courtney was not quite sure
what to answer. She glanced at her
husband, but he was standing with his
back to her, and would make no sign,
so she was thrown upon her own resources.
Yet she was a woman, and
when it is a matter of finesse when
do a woman's resources fail ?

She is better, dear Sir Russell —
much better, almost well, in fact, but
still weak, and unequal to any exertion.
I did try to approach the subject
of your most flattering proposal to
her on her return home, but her agitation
became so great, I was forced to
relinquish it. You must not condemn
her weakness. The prospect is a very
dazzling one to a simple and innocent
girl like our Maraqulta.'

Do you mean to tell me, then, that
she is favourably disposed towards me ? '
inquired the Governor excitedly.

It is true that he was a Governor,
and would perhaps have been somewhat
surprised at any woman in San Diego
refusing his suit. But at the same time
he was fifty years of age, stout, bald,
and past the age of romance, and it
was enough to make any such man
excited, to hear that a pure and lovely
girl of eighteen was ready and eager
to fly into his arms. He was quite
aware of the value of the position he
had to offer to the planter's daughter,
but he was conceited enough to be
gulled into the belief that she could
actually fall in love with him, more than
with the advantages which a marriage
with him would entail. His rosy face
became rubicund with expectant pleasure,

and he already saw himself with
the most beautiful woman in San Diego
folded in his embrace.

'Favourably disposed!' echoed Mrs
Courtney. ' My dear Sir Russell, that
is not the word ! Maraquita is overpowered
by the preference you have
shown towards her, only too shy to offer
you her timid girlish love in return.
She is so afraid she can give you nothing
worth the having in exchange for
your noble proposal to make her your
wife.'

If she will give me herself, it is all
I ask,' returned the Governor. * And
now, tell me, may I see her, and plead
my cause in person ? '

Oh, Sir Russell, one moment ! ' cried
Mrs Courtney, hurriedly. * Let Mr
Courtney offer you some refreshment,
whilst I prepare our sweet girl for your

visit. You do not know how shy and
sensitive she is. The very mention of
marriage makes her blush. Let me goto
my child, and when she is calm
enough to receive you, I will return and
tell you so.'

As you please, my dear madam, but
don't try my patience too far. Mr
Courtney and I will have a cigar together,
and talk over our plans for the
future, whilst you are gone.' And with
a courtly bow to his hostess, Sir Russell
let her leave the room.

Mrs Courtney hastened at once to
Maraquita's side. Hastened is not
exactly the word for the ungraceful
waddle which she used when she wished
to expedite her footsteps, but she walked
as fast as her unwieldy form would
permit her, to the shady spot where
Quita's hammock swung under the

orange trees, and having dismissed
Jessica to the house, she entered at once
upon her subject.

Quita, my darling, Sir Russell John-stone
has come for your answer to his
proposal

She was clever in her own way, this
half-educated, half-bred Spanish woman.
She knew that if she gave Quita time
to reflect, she would probably think of
a way out of the dilemma in which she
found herself, or consult her lover, and
be persuaded perhaps to elope with him,
and ruin her prospects for ever. She
had read enough of her daughter's mind
on the first day she returned home, to
see that all her inclinations were opposed
to marrying Sir Russell John-stone,
and if she were persuaded to
consent to it, it must be through finesse,
or an appeal to her ambition. What

Mrs Courtney wanted now, was to hurry
Maraquita into accepting the Governor's
proposal, and make her so far commit
herself that she could not back out of
it afterwards. And she had good materials
to work upon, for Maraquita was
a youthful copy of her mother, as vain,
and selfish, and indolent, and heartless,
and as fond of luxuries and the good
things of this life. But she was considerably
startled at hearing she had to
make up her mind so soon, and her
large dark eyes — so like those of a deer
opened wide with consternation and
alarm.

Oh, mother ! Surely I need not give
him an answer to-day. It is so very soon.
I have had no time to think about it.'

No time to think about it ! ' echoed Mrs
Courtney ; ' why, the case is plain enough.
What thinking does it require ? Sir

VOL. II. E

Russell offers to make you Lady John-stone,
and the mistress of Government
House. He has an income of many
thousands a year, and your father will
settle a handsome dowry on you if you
marry him. You will be the richest
woman, and the woman of highest rankin
San Diego, and every soul in the island
will exclaim at your good fortune. What
more, in the name of Heaven, do you
want, Maraquita ?'

I am so afraid I shan't love him'*
sighed the girl, with a last remnant of
womanly feeling.

'Very well,' exclaimed Mrs Courtney,
turning her back upon her daughter, and
professing to be about to leave her, * I
will go and tell Sir Russell, and at once !
He is waiting your answer, and I can't
keep a Governor on tenterhooks for hours.
If you refuse him, he says he is going

back to England by the next steamer,
and shall never return here, as he is sick
of San Diego, and will only stay on condition
you become his wife. But as you
won't try to love him, it is of no use.'

Stay, mother, stay ! ' cried Quita
hurriedly ; ' don't go just yet. Wait one
moment, and speak to me. Is it really
true that Sir Russell will leave San Diego
if I don't marry him ? '

Didn't I say so, Maraquita. He declares
that nothing shall make him stay ; and if
he returns, it will be with a Lady Johnstonee
to preside over Government House for
him. He will marry an English girl, and
you will have the mortification of seeing
some woman, with half your beauty, enjoying
all the advantages you have been
fool enough to refuse. Quita, I have no
patience with you.'

But, mamma — mamma, I haven't refused

him. I don't mean to refuse him !
If (as you say) I must make up my
mind at once, I have made it up ! I
accept Sir Russell's proposal, and you
can go and tell him so.'

Oh, my darling girl ! ' exclaimed Mrs
Courtney effusively, ' I was sure you would
see this grand prospect in its proper light
at last. How proud and delighted your
father will be to hear your decision. But
you must give Sir Russell his answer in
person, my love. You must let me bring
him here, and tell him yourself that you
will be his wife.'

But I am not fit to see any one. I am
so untidy ! ' cried Quita, jumping out of her
hammock, and standing before her mother.

She was clothed in a long loose robe, of
saffron colour, with hanging sleeves, that
showed her white arms, and a belt that
spanned her slender waist. Her dusky

hair lay in a rippling mass upon her
shoulders, and her fair face was flushed
with excitement, and perhaps regret. She
had never looked more lovely in her life,
and Mrs Courtney regarded her with
pardonable pride and admiration.

You are charming, my dear ! I will
not have you wait to make a single alteration
in your dress ; and Sir Russell is so
impatient, that he will readily pardon the
negligence of your morning attire, He
knows you have been ill, and are disinclined
for much exertion. Sit down in
this chair, Quita, and I will bring him to
you in another minute. Oh, my dear
child,' concluded Mrs Courtney, with a
close embrace, ' how thankful I am that allis
about to end so happily for you ! You
have half killed me by your thoughtlessness
and imprudence.'

There were genuine tears in her mother's

eyes as she pronounced the words, and
Quita felt for the first time, perhaps, what
a terrible risk she had run.

Never mind, mamma ! ' she whispered,
it is over now, and he — he has promised me
that I shall never hear anything more about
it. Let us try and forget it ever occurred.'

Yes, my dearest girl, that is just what
you must do. Blot out the past, like a
hideous dream. It has been a terrible
experience for you, and so long as you
remained unmarried, I should always have
trembled for your safety. But now — as
the wife of the Governor, my dear child's
future is assured, and we will never mention
the hateful subject again — not even to
each other.'

No ! and, mamma, you told me the
other day that (excepting for certain reasons)
you would have had some changes
made on the plantation. Couldn't you

manage to have those changes made now.
Not too suddenly, you know, so as to
excite suspicion, but as if they were
brought about in the natural course of
events. Can't you persuade papa,' said
Maraquita, hiding her face in her mother's
bosom, * to engage a — a — new overseer ?
It would be better for all of us.'

'You are quite right, my darling
whispered Mrs Courtney back again, ' and
I am glad you have so much sense.
Trust me, dear, that you shall not be
annoyed in this matter. As soon as your
marriage is settled, I will take you upon
the hill range for change of air, and
before you return we will have done
what you suggest. I have a dozen good
reasons to give your father for engaging
some one else in that person's place.'

Don't be harsh with him,' faltered
Maraquita ; ' remember that — that — '

But this was a dangerous topic, on
which Mrs Courtney did not choose to
dilate.

I can remember nothing now, my
dear, except that Sir Russell is waiting
for your answer, and that I must go and
fetch him to you. Now, be a woman,
Maraquita ! Think of all you owe to
yourself, and the brilliant future that lies
before you ! I really believe I should go
out of my mind with grief if anything
happened to prevent it.'

Mrs Courtney walked back to the
house as quickly as she was able, and
Maraquita lay In the bamboo chair,
with her eyes closed, and the unshed tears
trembling like dewdrops on her long dark
lashes. She had not to wait long! In
another minute her mother had returned,
in company with the Governor, and Quita
had to disperse the vision of her handsome

Spanish lover, with his graceful form
and romantic bearing, and open her eyes
upon a stout and pursy little Englishman,
with a bald head and uninteresting features,
and legs too short for his body.

But there was no mistaking the expression
of his beaming face, and the girl saw
at a glance that the matter had been concluded
for her, and she was already In
his eyes the future Lady Johnstonee.

My dear Miss Courtney — may I not
say my dear Maraqulta ? ' he commenced,
I cannot tell you how flattered I feel
by your kind acceptance of my offer, nor
how much I hope it will be the forerunner
of our life-long happiness.'

He raised the hand she extended,
to his lips as he spoke, and she felt
compelled to reply, in a faltering
voice, —

I hope It will — '

I won't hear of any doubts about it
exclaimed Mrs Courtney triumphantly. ' I
feel sure, Sir Russell, that my sweet child's
happiness is safe In your hands ; and as for
yours — why, if the affection and duty of
a simple and innocent girl can secure it,
it will be as safe as her own. You must
not forget, my dear sir, that you have
chosen to honour a very young girl —
almost a child — with your preference,
and will, I know, make allowance for
any faults that may arise from ignorance
of the world and of society.'

^ I know that I have chosen the loveliest
and sweetest girl in San Diego ! '
cried the Governor enthusiastically, 'and
that it will be the aim of my life to surround
her with every luxury and pleasure
that I can afford ; and as for her faults,
I shall never see any to make allowance
for

Oh, Sir Russell replied Mrs Courtney,
In the same strain, ' you must not
spoil my child ! I know myself that her
chief fault is that which will mend everyday
; still she is very young — there is no
denying that — and will often need a little
kindly counsel as to how she should act
in her high position.'

She will only need to be herself, and
to act on her own impulses, to make the
most charming hostess that ever presided
at the Government House. But we have
not yet spoken of when the marriage
is to take place, Mrs Courtney, — and I
hope you will persuade Maraquita not
to keep me waiting too long.'

You are very impatient,' she replied,
smiling, ' but you must not forget that
my dear child has been ill, and is still
very weak and fragile. Still, if you make
a point of it, I am sure neither Mr Courtney

nor myself will stand In the way of a

speedy wedding.'

But what will Miss Maraquita say ? '
demanded the Governor, bending over
her.

My mother can decide for me,' she
murmured faintly. ' I have never disobeyed
you yet, mamma, have I ? '

'Never! my dear, never! You have
been the best and most dutiful of
daughters, and deferred to your parents'
wishes in all things — '

But here the remembrance of certain
late events put a sudden stop to Mrs
Courtney's eloquence, and she watched
the crimson blood that rose to Quita's
cheek, in alarm. The girl was still weak :
it was dangerous to provoke an emotion
which she might find it impossible to
quell.

But I think we have discussed this

exciting topic sufficiently for to-day,' she
continued. * Maraquita is easily upset,
and I should be sorry to see her thrown
back again. Will you settle the knotty
question of the wedding day with me,
Sir Russell, after you have finished talking
to my daughter ? I don't fancy you
will find there are many difficulties in
the way — but we must think first
of Maraquita's strength, and how we
can restore it for the important occasion.'


Certainly ! that is the chief consideration,'
replied Sir Russell ; ' what do you
propose to do about it ? '

I was thinking of taking her up to
the hill range for a week, to escape these
enervating land breezes. I think a little
change would do her more good than
anything else.'

The very thing ! ' exclaimed Sir Russell,

and you can have the use of the Government
Bungalow, and all that is in it.
When will you start? To-morrow? If
so, I will send word at once to have
everything in readiness for your reception.
Don't trouble yourself about taking your
carriage and horses, mine will be there,
and at your entire disposal. And I trust
that after the rest of a day or two, Mara-quite
will permit me to join your party,
and accompany her on her excursions in
search of health. I have an Arab pony
that carries a lady to perfection, and, with
your leave, I will send it up for her use.
What does my france say ? Does my
proposal meet with her approval ? '

'She would be a very ungrateful girl,
and very hard to please, if it did not,'
said her mother, answering for her; and
then perceiving that Quita's self-command
was almost at an end, and that she was

on the point of breaking down, she added
playfully, —

And now I am going to be hardhearted
and carry you off, Sir Russell, for
my poor child is overcome with all this
excitement, and unable to bear any more
at present. Please be good, and return
with me to the White House ; and if you
will call upon us again this evening, I
have no doubt she will be calmer, and
better able to thank you for all your kind
offers on her behalf.'

The Governor rose at once (for he was
a gentleman, although he was ugly and
ill-formed), and took his leave. As he
did so, he stooped down and kissed
Maraqulta on the cheek. It was not an
out-of-the-way thing for a newly-accepted
lover to do, but the salute, quietly as it
was given, seemed to sting her. She
did not resent it whilst her mother and

Sir Russell Johnstonee were in sight, but
as soon as the doors of the White House
had closed upon them, she hid her face
in her hands, and burst into a flood of
tears.

HE was still weeping quietly,
when the branches of the
orange tree which formed a
leafy bower around her, were parted, and
a voice exclaimed, with passionate intensity,
—

Maraquita ! '

The girl sprang to her feet without
any effort to conceal her tears. Henri
de Courcelles stood beside her.

'Oh, go!' she implored, 'go at once.
You don't know the risk you are running.

VOL. II. F

My mother suspects us, and she may be
back in another moment. For my sake,
Henri, go.'

Not unless you will tell me the cause
of your grief. Is it because this burden
is too heavy for you ? If so, come with
me, and let us share it, and fight the
world together.'

I cannot talk with you about it now,
Henri,' replied Maraquita, with a look
of alarm ; * it is impossible. You Trust
leave me. I see Jessica coming from
the house.'

Then where will you meet me, for
I shall not rest until you have satisfied
my curiosity ; besides, I have important
news for you about — it.'

This intelligence made Quita change
her mind. She was intensely anxious
to have the assurance of her own complete
safety, and she could be cunning

enough where her inclinations were concerned.


Have you done — what I asked you ? '
she gasped.

I have made everything right, but
I cannot explain the matter to you in a
moment, nor where there is any fear of
our being overheard.'

Wait for me in the oleander thicket,
then cried Maraquita. * I will be therein
five minutes.'

Henri de Courcelles nodded acquiescence,
and disappeared as old Jessica came
up to her young mistress.

Missus Courtney send me to ask if my
missy like to have something to eat and
drink now ; and will missy come back to
de house, or will she have it brought out
here under de trees ? ' asked the negress.

Neither, Jessica. Tell mamma I am
not hungry or thirsty, only very sleeping

I want to be left alone for an hour

or two. I can call you when I wake.'

If missy sleepy, better come and
sleep in house,' urged Jessica. ' So
many flies and 'sweeter about here.'

I wish you would let me do as I
like, Jessica,' said Quita, ' and keep your
suggestions to yourself.'

I'se very sorry, missy. I won't say
any more, only stop here and keep off
de flies and tings from your face.'

You're enough to drive a saint mad ! '
cried Maraquita, stamping her foot.
Didn't I tell you I wanted to be left
alone ? What is it to you if I like flies
and mosquitoes buzzing about me ? Go
back to the house, and don't come near
me again till I give you leave.'

The old nurse obeyed without a murmur
; but she did murmur, for all that.
The coloured people are very secretive,

and can assume an appearance of complete
Innocence, all the time they are
cognisant of their employer's most important
secrets.

Ah ! my poor little missy,' muttered
Jessica to herself, as she shambled on
her bare flat feet towards the house, * you
think ole black nurse blind, but she see
too well. She know all about de baby
at Doctor's bungalow, and who's de fader
and modern of it, as well as you. And
she will see her little missy revenged,
before many moons is over her head, into
de bargain. Cuss dat overseer ! '

Meanwhile Maraquita, having watched
Jessica into the house, through the
branches of the orange tree, stole out
the opposite side, and, keeping well out
of view of the windows, took her way
towards the oleander thicket, which lay
between her home and De Courcelles'

bungalow. It was a wild patch of
flowering shrubs, densely planted together,
and forming a sufficient ambush
to conceal any number of persons from
the public gaze. There was a wooden
bench in one part of it, where Maraquita
and De Courcelles had often held their
moonlight trysts together ; and there she
found him eager to tell his news, and
claim his reward.

Quita sunk down upon the bench, and
trembled. She was not only weak from
her recent illness, but she dreaded the
scene which might follow the impending
revelation.

You are far from well yet, my Quita,'
said Henri de Courcelles, as he folded his
arms about her trembling form ; * but I
have something to tell you which will
set your mind at rest.'

Tell it to me quickly, then,' rejoined

Maraqulta. ' Have you sent It out of the
Island ? Are you sacre I shall never hear
of It again ? '

No, I cannot quite promise you that,'
replied De Courcelles, with an Intuitive
disgust (even In the midst of his passion)
for her undisguised selfishness. ' It has
never been In my hands, so it was Impossible
I could form any plans for It.
But circumstances have fallen out so
fortunately, that I don't see any chance
of suspicion falling upon j/ou.'

*What do you mean? I don't understand
you,' said Quita pettishly. * If It
is to remain In San Diego, the secret
may come out any day, and my only
safety will be in leaving the island.'

Wait a moment, dearest, and listen tome.
It seems that the day before the
Doctor's death, he brought the child
home to his bungalow, where It now is — '

'With Lizzie? In the bungalow?'
cried Quita, turning ashy pale. *0h, my
God ! then all is over, and I am lost ! '

Hush ! hush ! Maraquita. Nothing of
the sort. Liz refuses to say a word upon
the subject. / have questioned her narrowly
; so has your father ; and all she
will answer is that before his death Dr
Fellows extracted a solemn oath from her
never to disclose anything concerning the
child, and that her lips are sealed.'

Oh, but it will come out ; it is sure
to come out some day ! ' exclaimed Quita,
weeping, as she wrung her hands in
abject fear. * You have ruined me, Henri !
You have destroyed all my future prospects
! I shall be branded for ever asa
dishonest woman ! '

But it is impossible ! All the plantation
— I may say all San Diego — already
believes the child to be Lizzie's own.'

Maraqulta stared at him in astonishment.


They believe that ! But what does
Lizzie say ? '

'She can say nothing! Her lips are
sealed by her oath ! '

Some day the shame may prove too
hard to bear, and they will be forced
open.'

It will be too late then to assert her
innocence. The world of San Diego is
quite convinced by this time that she is
the mother of the infant, and her attempts
to cast the blame on you will only appear
to be an impudent subterfuge. She has
no proof — or witness — to bring forward
in confirmation of the truth.'

Poor Lizzie,' said Quita, in a low voice,
visions of past kindnesses on the part of
her adopted sister, and of a faithful lifelong
affection, floated before her mind, and

made her tremble. Something — was it
the last effort made by her Good Angel
in her behalf — seemed to rise within her
heart, and prompt her to cry out that it
must not be, that she could not be guilty
of this dreadful wrong, and let her just
burthen lie on the shoulders of an innocent
woman. But then she remembered
the shame and the disgrace that would
ensue to her, and how her parents would
despise and reproach her, and Sir Russell
Johnstonee would refuse to make her his
wife, and moral cowardice made her shiver
and remain silent.

Ay ! poor Lizzie,' echoed De Courcelles.
* I am really sorry for the girl ;
but what can be done ? It is a choice
between two evils. Either she must be
sacrificed, or my peerless Maraquita. Do
you suppose I could hesitate between
them ? There is one thing to be said,

however. Lizzie is not in your position.
She will not feel the disgrace so keenly
as you would. And, before long, Mara-quite,
we may be able to relieve her of
her burthen.'

Maraquita did not like the last allusion.

I don't see how she answered lamely.

Have you forgotten, then, what you
promised, when you asked me to assist
you to escape the inevitable blame of the
consequences of our mutual love, — that, if
your parents refused to sanction our marriage,
you would elope with me to Santa
Lucia, and not return until we were man
and wife in the eyes of the law, as weare
now in the eyes of Heaven ? '

But you have not done as I asked
you,' she replied evasively. * I don't see
that you have done anything. It is still
here, closer at hand even than I thought
it was, and (whatever you may say) liable

at any moment to be brought home to
my door. And there is another danger,
Henri. Mamma has discovered our secret
how, I am unable to say, but she has
told me so pretty plainly, and also that
she will keep it only on one condition — '

'And that is — '

That I accept the proposals of Sir
Russell Johnstonee.'

You shall riot ! ' cried her lover indignantly.
' I will not stand by quietly
and see the woman I consider my wife
handed over to that bald-headed old
Governor. I will go straight up to
Mr Courtney sooner, and confess the
truth, and ask his pardon for what I
have done. Surely he would never
wish you to marry another man, if he
knew what has taken place between us.
And if he persists in dragging you to
the altar, I will tear you from your

bridegroom's arms, and stab you to the
heart, before he shall claim what is
mine.'

Quita's star-like eyes dilated with
terror. She knew something of what
the Spanish and Creole blood is capable
of doing when roused, and foresaw
bloodshed — perhaps murder — if Henri de
Courcelles did not have his own way.
And yet, to give up the brilliant prospect
before her, in order to become an
overseer's wife, and one whose maiden
reputation would be lightly spoken of,
seemed to be impossible. Why had
she ever entangled her feet in a net
which threatened to drag her down to
a life of obloquy and shame .^ To what
friend could she turn in her great need ?
Suddenly the idea flashed across her
mind that she would confess everything
to her mother. Mrs Courtney already

knew (or had guessed) the truth, and
counselled her daughter on the best
mode of escaping its results. She was
very anxious to see Maraquita Lady
Johnstonee. If making a clean breast
of her secret brought a certain amount
of recrimination on her head, it would at
the same time secure her an ally with
whom to fight this terrible battle for a
name and a position in life. For the
first time hope and comfort seemed to
enter her breast. If her mother were
on her side, she felt she could defy
Henri de Courcelles, and Liz Fellows,
and the world. All their assertions
would be taken as impudent lies, and
only secure their own immediate banishment
from Beauregard. But, meanwhile,
her lover must be quieted and conciliated,
and Maraquita knew how todo
it full well. She had scarcely conceived

the notion how to act in the
future, before her white arms were
wreathed about his neck.

Henri,' she cried, with her lips to his,
don't speak to me like that ! Don't think
of such a thing, for Heaven's sake ! Do
you imagine that / would ever consent
to be placed in such a position, or
that any amount of tyranny would make
me marry a man against my will ? Let
the worst come to the worst, dear ; let
mamma tell my father of our intrigue ;
it will only result in your having to
leave San Diego. Whether / shall be
able to go too, remains to be proved.
I am under age, you know, and if papa
chooses to lock me up, or send me to
England, I suppose he can. But even
that will be better than being forced to
marry a man I don't love ; and you
know that I shall always remember

you, dearest, and think of the time
that is past, as the happiest portion of
my life.'

Henri de Courcelles looked sullen and
suspicious. The clasping arms were very
sweet, and the ripe lips very tempting,
but there was a false ring in Quita's
speech, which made itself apparent to his
senses, although his judgment could not
detect it. There was no fault to be
found with her words, yet they inspired
him with distrust, and he felt certain
that she was betraying whilst she kissed
him.

I don't know what to think of you,
Maraquita,' he said presently. ' I suppose
you love me, in your way, but you
seem very ready to fall in with your
parents' plans to get rid of me.'

But what could I do, Henri, if my
father was determined to separate us ?

Am I not completely in his power ?
Our only chance appears to me to
lie in secrecy, and yet you speak as
if you would disclose the affair tO all
San Diego.'

And if I hold my tongue and remain
quiet, what then ? You will marry Sir
Russell Johnstonee before my very eyes,
and I shall have to grin and bear it.'

We are the most unfortunate people
in the world,' sighed Maraquita, with
mock sentimentality.

You mean that / am the most unfortunate
man in the world, ever to have
set my heart on a girl who doesn't care
two straws for me. I can see through
you now, Maraquita. You were willing
enough to commit the sin, but you are
too great a coward to face the consequences
of it. You have deceived and
disobeyed your parents over and over

VOL. II. G

U7

again, when it suited your pleasure to do
so, but when it comes to a question of
marrying the man you profess to love,
you take refuge behind the transparent
screen of filial duty and affection. I was
good enough for your lover, it appears,
but I am not good enough to be your
husband. You have higher views in
prospect for yourself, and I may go anywhere,
— be kicked out of my appointment,
and cast homeless on San Diego
what does it signify to you, so long
as you become Lady Johnstonee, and
have plenty to eat and drink, and a
spotless reputation. But it shall not be !
You have made yourself mine, and I
refuse to give you up. If you attempt
to become the wife of any other man,
whether in deference to your parents'
wishes, or your own, I will blast your
name from north to south, till the commonest

fellow on the island would refuse
to give you his. Every black in San
Diego shall know what you are, a light
love, a false woman, and a heartless mother.'

You shall not — you dare not ! ' gasped
Maraquita, now thoroughly frightened.

You shall see what I can dare / ' he
exclaimed wildly. ' For I will take your
life and my own, sooner than give you
up to another.'

And with that Henri de Courcelles
walked away, and left her sitting
there by herself. As soon as she was
convinced he was not coming back
again, Quita rose, and with trembling
steps walked slowly back to the White
House. He had succeeded in completely
alarming her. She had never
seen him like this before, and he was
terrible in his anger. His black eyes
had gleamed on her like polished steel,

and his hand had involuntarily sought
his side, as though ready to grasp an invisible
stiletto. Quita felt certain he
would be capable of any violence, if not
restrained, and fear lent her boldness.
She would secure one friend at least in
her extremity, and whatever it cost her
she would confide her trouble to her
mother. She found Mrs Courtney
alone in her own room, lying on a sofa,
with bare feet, and the last novel that
had reached San Diego in her hand.
But as she saw Maraquita enter the
chamber, she raised herself to a sitting
position.

My dearest child ! what is the
matter 1 You are looking quite ill again.'

Oh, mamma, mamma,' cried Quita,
sinking at her mother's feet, ' I am so
unhappy ! '

And then, in a broken voice, and with

her face still hidden, she told the story
of her disgrace, and the danger which
appeared to threaten her.

Mrs Courtney listened in silence. She
had suspected the cause of her daughter's
illness, and the author of her ruin, but
she was hardly prepared to hear there
was a living witness to her shame domiciled
so close to Beauregard. Her naturally
sallow complexion turned almost livid
with horror, and her unwieldy frame
shook with agitation. And when the
girl had finished her miserable recital,
all her mother could utter was, —

Oh, Maraquita, Maraquita, I couldn't
have believed it of you ! '

Mother, don't speak to me like that !
I know I have been very wicked, but
I have no friend but you, and \{ you desert
me, I shall be lost. Oh, mother, save
me this once, and I will do everything

you ask me in the future. You want
me to became Lady Johnstonee, don't
you ? But you must think of some
means of stopping Henri's tongue, or I
never shall be. I did not think he would
be so spiteful and revengeful ! He says
he will stab me at the very altar.'

That is all talk, my dear ! he will dono
such elinor! He shall be sent out
of Beauregard before a week is over his
head ; and if he dares to assail your character,
your father shall have him punished
for it. But listen to me, Quita. There
is only one way to fight this scandal, and
that is to deny everything. Now, let
me understand you plainly. Are you sure
that no one but Dr Fellows and his
daughter knew the secret of this birth ?'

Quite sure, mamma ! The Doctor told
me so over and over again ; and I don't
think Lizzie knows whose baby it is — and

if she does, she has taken an oath never
to reveal it — and Lizzie will keep her
oath ! ' said Maraquita, with complete
faith in the fidelity of her friend.

There was no other person in the
house at the time ? '

No one, mamma.'

Then your course is plain. Whoever
dares to mention this story to you, or at
whatever time it may crop up against you,
deny it entirely. Say you have never
heard of such a thing before, and you
are entirely ignorant how it could have
originated. / — as your mother — will
corroborate your statement, and we will
uphold our assertion before the world.
Lizzie Fellows is really the only witness
that can come against you, and she will
not break her promise, I am sure of that.

As for that villain De Courcelles, your
father shall give him a summary dismissal,

and anything he may say in his rage will
be taken for revenge. He can prove
nothing. He has only his bare word to
give for it, and who would believe him
against your own parents ? Meanwhile,
dearest, the sooner your marriage takes
place the better, and then you will feel
safe. But whatever you do, Maraquita,
never acknowledge your shame again,
even to De Courcelles. You never know
who may overhear it. Try to believe it
has never been, and then you will act as
though it had never been. As for marrying
your father's overseer, it is out of the
question, and like his presumption to
dream of it. As if he hadn't done you
harm enough already, without wishing to
hamper you for life ! Its like the unreasonable
selfishness of men. But you
may make your mind easy, my dear,
your mother will save you.'

Oh, mamma, how I wish I could

go away somewhere, and never see nor

hear anything of him again ! ' sobbed

Maraquita.

So you shall, Quita, if you will only
have a little patience. But cease crying
now, my child, or you will make yourself
ill. Lie down on my couch, and try to
go to sleep. I won't let you leave the
house again until Monsieur de Courcelles
has quitted the plantation.'

And with a kiss of forgiveness, Mrs
Courtney left her frail daughter to repose.

HE next morning Liz was walking
up the avenue of orange
trees that led to the White
House, with her eyes fixed upon the
ground, and her brow wrinkled with perplexity.
After many hours of painful
deliberation, she had come to the conclusion
to take the advice of Captain
Norris, and beg Maraquita to relieve her
of the intolerable burden of shame she
bore for her sake ; but how to accuse her
adopted sister of her sin, troubled her

beyond measure. She felt so deeply for
her youth and betrayed innocence. Such
a well of divine compassion for the injured
girl was mingled with her own
horror of the deed, that she scarcely knew
whether she should feel most inclined to
commiserate with, or to blame her. Liz
pictured Quita to herself writhing on
the ground for very shame at the discovery
of her weakness, bright-eyed, dusky-haired
Maraquita, who had always seemed
so much to be envied and admired, prostrate
in her humiliation, and her generous
heart bled in anticipation of her sister's
pain. She conned over and over again
the words in which she would break the
truth to her, trying to make them as
tender and little accusing as she could.
She would endeavour (she thought) to
first gain Quita's confidence, and then to
make her understand that, if she would

only do what was just, in confessing the
truth to her parents, Liz would be her
friend, and the friend of her little daughter,
to their lives' end. But what she was
about to ask of Quita was a very serious
thing, and she doubted if the girl's strength
of mind would carry her through it.

She did not ring for admittance when
she reached the White House. She had
been accustomed to enter and leave it as
she chose, and experienced no difficulty
in finding her way at once to the chamber
where Maraquita spent most of her morning
hours.

This was an apartment adjoining her
bedroom, and furnished more with a view
to the repose which is so essential in the
torrid climate of the West Indies, than
to the pursuit of any active work. Its
French windows, opening on the garden,
were shaded by green jalousies,

through which the luxuriant creepers
thrust their tendrils and their leaves; the
marble floor was strewn with plaited
mats of various coloured straws; the furniture
consisted of a couple of bamboo
lounges and a marble table, on which
stood a silver tray bearing fruit and
cooling drinks. The only ornaments it
contained were a large mirror and a
couple of handsome vases filled with
roses. Everything about the room was
conducive to coolness and repose ; and
Maraquita, attired in white muslin, with
a palm leaf in her hand, and stretched
full length on one of the couches, with
her eyes half closed, was a personification
of the goddess of Sleep or Indolence, or
perhaps both.

She started, and coloured slightly as
Liz slipped into the room through the
verandah. Her last conversation with

Henri de Courcelles was in her mind.
She had been thinking of it as Liz entered,
and a secret intuition made her
feel that her adopted sister would allude
to the subject. A craven fear took possession
of her, and made her heart beat
to suffocation ; but only for a moment.
The next she had remembered her
mother's caution and promised championship,
and had resolved to carry out her
advice (if necessary) to the very letter.
As she sank back upon her couch, Lizzie
advanced towards her with affectionate
solicitude.

Have I startled you, Quita ? I hope
not. It seems so long since we met ;
and so much has happened since then,
that I felt I must come up and see you
to-day. How are you, dear ? Quite
strong again ? '

As she sat down by the girl's side,

and laid her hand tenderly upon her
arm, Quita turned pettishly away.

That is rather a silly question for a
lady doctor to ask me, Lizzie. How
can I be quite strong again after such
a nasty attack of fever ? I am as weak
as I can well be, and mamma is going
to take me up to the hill range tomorrow
or next day for change of
air.'

I am glad of that, dear. It will bethe
best thing for you, for you must have
suffered much, my poor Quita, I am sure,
both in mind and body.'

Quita did not like this thrust, but she
parried it bravely.

Well, I did suffer with the fever, as
you know, and the only wonder is that
it didn't kill me, as it has done so many
of the coolies. It was your poor father
who saved my life. And then that Fie

should go himself! I have felt that
terribly, Liz. I was very fond of him.
He vas like a second father to me, and
his sudden death has cut us all up, as
well as you.'

There were tears in Maraquita's voice
as she spoke, which brought the kindred
drops welling up to Lizzie's eyes, and
for a few moments the girls wept together
as for a common loss.

Oh, Quita,' said Liz, as soon as she
could speak calmly again, * I know that
you and your father and mother have felt
for me in my trouble, for, kind as you
have been to us, you can never realise
the depth of it. My father was my world.
He stood between me and every anxiety,
and now that he is gone, I feel as if
I stood alone, the centre of a storm
of suspicion, and accusation, and reproach.'


Maraquita paled under this allusion,
but she felt obliged to say, —

What do you mean ? '

'Can you ask me, Quita?' exclaimed
Liz suddenly. ' Is it possible that the
rumours that are afloat concerning me
have failed to reach your ears ? Mr
Courtney told me that he had heard
them. Surely he repeated them to you.'

No, papa has told me nothing, and I
don't know what rumours you allude to,'
replied Quita ; but had the room not been
darkened to shut out the morning heat,
Lizzie must have seen the crimson blood
that rushed to her face with fear of what
was coming.

Then I must tell you,' said lizzie,
drawing nearer to the couch, while she
looked cautiously about the room to be
sure that no one was within hearing.
• Indeed I came up here this morning

VOL. II. II

expressly to tell you, for the burden of
secrecy and shame is more than I can
bear.'

Whilst Lizzie beat about the bush, as
though afraid to mention the forbidden
topic, Quita had felt timid and constrained,
but now that she seemed prepared
to speak out, the defiance that is
born of fear entered the younger girl's
breast, and emboldened her to say or do
anything in the defence of her honour.

What secrecy? What shame ? What
have you been doing, Lizzie ? ' she exclaimed,
with well-feigned surprise. ' You
talk in riddles to me to-day.'

Ah, you have heard nothing, Quita.
I can see that. You do not know the
terrible duty that has been laid upon me.
But turn your face this way, dear, and
let me whisper to you. Don't mind what
I may say, Quita. Remember that I am

your sister, who has known you from
a baby, and that I sympathise with and
feel for you in any trouble or sorrow you
may have to endure. You remember the
night you came to our bungalow ? '

I remember the night I was told
I went there, Liz ; but I was half delirious
with the fever, and can vouch for
nothing myself

I can well understand that you
were half crazy with fear and pain,
dearest, but it was not the fever that
made you so.'

The Doctor said It was the fever,'
argued Maraqulta, with wide-open, innocent
eyes. * He told papa and mamma
so.'

I know he did, for your sake, and
that they believed It. He extracted a
solemn oath from me at the same time,
never to reveal what I might see or

hear that night. And I never have revealed
it, Quita, and I never will. It
shall lie hidden in my heart until my
death. Only you must help me to bear
it, or I shall die.'

h'lzzie was sobbing now, though very
quietly, behind the shelter of her hands,
whilst Maraquita lay on the couch
silent but pondering what she would say.

Speak to me,' cried Lizzie presently.
Say something, for God's sake, and
put me out of my pain.'

What am I to say ? ' replied Mara-quite.
* You frighten me when you
talk like that. Has anything terrible
happened since your poor father's death,
and how can / help you out of it ? '

I will tell you what has happened,'
said Lizzie presently. ' Mammy Lila
is dead, and the child is with me, and
every one is talking about it, and saying

it is mine. What am I to do, Quita —
what ain I to do ? I cannot speak,
because my lips are closed by the oath
my father made me take ; and if I cotdd
speak, do you think I would betray
my dearest friend ? And can I send
it from me — the poor, helpless, tender
little creature who has no one to look
after it and love it but myself?'

But whose child is it ? ' inquired
Maraquita, with her dark eyes fixed
full on those of her adopted sister.

Lizzie regarded her for a moment
in silent consternation. Was it possible
that Quita was in ignorance of her
child's birth, and had her late father
managed so skilfully as to keep her
unaware of what had happened ? Such
things had been. But the next minute
Liz had rejected the idea with scorn.
At any rate Maraquita must have

known what lay before her when she
found her way to the Doctor's bungalow,
and if she affected ignorance now,
it was only because she was unaware
that Lizzie knew the whole truth.

'Oh, Maraqulta,' she exclaimed, 'don't
be afraid of confessing it to me, for
I know everything ! My father was
obliged to confide in me. He could
not have managed without my assistance.
But my oath seals my lips to
all the world but you. But is it right
to keep such a secret from your father
and mother, especially when doing so
involves the ruin of any other woman ?
You don't know what the charge of
that little infant has brought upon me '^
Even Mr Courtney suspects my honesty.
And as for Monsieur de Courcelles — '

What has Monsieur de Courcelles todo
with it ? ' cried Quita hastily.

Lizzie coloured. She had never spoken
of her relations with Henri de Courcelles
to Quita before, but this was no time to let
feeling get the better of justice.

He has everything to do with ^nej she
answered, in a low tone. ' Quita, I have
never told you before, that I am engaged
to be married to Monsieur de Courcelles.'

You — engaged to be married — to
Henri ? Oh, it is not true ! You are
deceiving me ! ' exclaimed Quita, as she
sprang to a sitting position, and turned a
face of ashy pallor to her companion.

But Lizzie suspected no more than she
saw. She only thought that Quita was
astonished that she should have been kept
in the dark with regard to so important
a subject, and hastened to defend her own
conduct.

Indeed, it is true! I daresay you are
surprised that I should not have told you,

Quita (for I have told you almost everything),
but I have felt so deeply about it,
that I could not speak ; and our engagement
has never been made public, though
it has lasted over a year.'

You — engaged to Henri de Courcelles I '
repeated Quita incredulously.

Yes ! Although he has broken it off, of
his own accord, and left me, I cannot feel
that I am free from him. For I love him,
Quita. I love him with my whole heart
and soul. I did not think it was in me to
love any creature as I love him. And
since we have parted, I have been unable
to sleep, or eat, or drink, for longing after
him, — longing, above all things, to clear my
character in his eyes, even though I never
saw him afterwards. Oh, Quita, I must,
I must do this ! To live on letting him
think me false and frail, will kill me !
If you will not help me out of this

awful dilemma, my death will be on your
head;

But the news she had just heard had
hardened Maraquita's heart. All the love
she was capable of feeling had been given
to De Courcelles, and if he and Lizzie had
combined to deceive her, why they might
suffer for it. That was all she thought of,
as she clenched her teeth upon her upper
lip, to prevent her betraying her emotion.

Maraquita ! won't you save my love tome
? ' wailed Lizzie. ' All I ask is to
clear my name in the eyes of Henri
de Courcelles, and then the rest of the
world may think and say what they
choose.'

I don't in the least understand what
you are driving at,' replied Maraquita.
What can / do to make up your quarrel ?
Monsieur de Courcelles and you are both
old enough to look after yourselves. If

he won't believe you, he is not likely to
believe me'

But I cannot speak — my lips are sealed,'
cried Lizzie wildly ; ' and he will not accept
my word, instead of an explanation. Don't
you understand me, Quita ? Henri has
heard this scandalous report about the
child, and believes it to be mine. He
demands the name of the mother, and no
one but you can satisfy him. Oh, Quita,
release me from this awful vow, that
threatens to ruin my character and blast
my whole life ! Think, dear — is it fair
that I should lose everything I love and
value most, because of your fault ? Be
brave and generous enough to share the
blame with me, and I promise you before
God that it shall never go any further.'

Maraquita sat straight up on her couch,
and stared at her adopted sister.

What do you want me to do ? Speak

plainly, for I do not comprehend your
meaning.'

I want you to tell your parents what
you have done. They will pity, and love,
and forgive you, Quita, as I do. They
will feel it was your youth and ignorance
that were at fault, and not your heart ;
and you will feel happier, my poor sister,
when your mother has shared your secret,
and forgiven it. I want you to tell Mr
and Mrs Courtney that the child in my
bungalow is yours.'

'What!' cried Quita shrilly. * You
want me to tell a lie in order to screen
yourself ? '

A lie ! ' repeated Lizzie. ' You know
it is not a lie ; you know when you came
to us that night that you were delivered
of a daughter, and that my poor father
took charge of it for you. Oh, Quita,
if you could see her, — her little waxen

hands and feet, her wistful dark eyes, so
like your own, and her tiny mouth, which
just begins to smile, your mother's heart
would yearn to claim her for your own ! *

For one moment Quita trembled at
the picture Liz had conjured up, but
the next, fear of ruining her own prospects
crushed the softer feeling in her
heart.

I deny it ! ' she exclaimed loudly. * I
deny every word you have uttered. You
are either mad, or you mistake me for
some other woman. How dare you insinuate
that I have ever had a child?'

You deny it ! ' echoed L.\zziq, rising
to her feet. * You can actually look mein
the face, and deny it, Quita ? '

Most emphatically I do, and resent
the insult you have laid upon me. I
know nothing about the child which is
in your bungalow. It may be yours, or

any other woman's, but it certainly is not
mine; and if my parents heard you had
accused me of such a dishonour, they
would turn you from their doors ! '

What is all this about ? ' exclaimed
Mrs Courtney, as she entered the room.
Lizzie, you ought to know better than
to let Maraquita excite herself with talking,
when she has scarcely recovered
from her late illness. She will have a
relapse, if we do not take care.'

She had heard from Jessica that the
Doctor's daughter had entered the house,
and, fearful of what she might have come
to say, had hastened to the rescue of
her daughter. Lizzie stood before her,
silent and confused, but Quita appealed
to her mothers protection at once.'

Mamma, just hear what Lizzie has
told me. She says there is a baby at her
bungalow which was left In the charge of

her father, and she accuses me of being
the mother of It, and wants me to tell a
lie to you and papa, In order to screen
herself from suspicion.'

'Lizzie accuses pott of being a mother!'
exclaimed Mrs Courtney, with well-acted
surprise. * Oh, it is impossible ! Quita,
you are dreaming ! '

Tell mamma if I am dreaming, Lizzie !
Repeat to her what you said just now.'

I shall do no such thing, Quita ! I
said what I did to you in confidence, and
I refuse to repeat it to any one.'

Because you know how mamma would
resent such a foul calumny. Oh, mamma,'
continued Quita to her mother, * what
have I ever done to be accused of such
a dreadful thing ? What would Sir
Russell say if he heard of it ? '

I cannot believe my ears,' said Mrs
Courtney. * Do I hear aright, Vazta^,

that you have dashed to link my daughter's
name with such a shameful story? What
induced you to do it ? Speak ! I must
have an answer.'

I cannot speak, Mrs Courtney ; I have
nothing to say.*

Because you know yourself to be
guilty. Don't imagine that we have not
heard the scandal that is abroad concerning
you. But I little thought you would
have the audacity to try and throw the
blame upon my poor Maraquita, she who
has been like a sister to you.'

I have never denied the benefits which
I and my poor father have received from
your family, Mrs Courtney, nor been ungrateful
for them.'

And what do you call your conduct
of this morning, then ? You have deceived
us all, Lizzie, — Mr Courtney, myself,
and your poor father. We though:

you a pure and good girl, or you never
would have been allowed to associate with
my daughter.'

I am pure,' interposed Lizzie, with
the indignant tears standing on her hot
cheeks. ' I have done nothing to make
you regret the favours you have shown
me.'

Oh, don't speak to me like that, Lizzie,
when you know that you are the mother
of a child which you dare not own.'

I am not ! I am not ! ' cried the girl,
half choked with her emotion and sense
of impotency to resent the charge made
against her.

And I say you are', continued Mrs
Courtney, 'and all San Diego says it
with me. And, not content with degrading
yourself, you would try to degrade
my daughter also. Shame upon you !
Is this your gratitude ? You who, but

for our bounty would have been pointed
at all your days as the daughter of a
felon, who have now lowered yourself
beyond the ordinary level of your sex.'

Oh, Mrs Courtney, say what you like
to me, but spare the memory of my dead
father ! ' cried Lizzie, through her sobs.

If I have not spared it, you have only
yourself, and your own conduct, to blame.
I have been very good to you hitherto,
Lizzie, but I can be so no longer. You
have raised a barrier between us with
your own hand. For the sake of his
old friendship for your father, Mr Courtney
wishes you to remain on the plantation,
but you are no fit companion for
Maraquita, and from this day you must
consider the doors of the White House
are closed against you.'

You will not find me attempt to
alter your decision, Mrs Courtney. I

VOL. II. I

came up here this morning to ask
Maraquita to do me a simple act of
justice, but she has refused it, and I
can no longer look upon her as my sister
and my friend, nor shall I have any
wish to seek her society.'

'Insolent!' exclaimed Mrs Courtney.
Why, under no circumstances would
you be permitted to do so. Maraquita
is engaged to be married to the Governor
of the island, Sir Russell Johnstonee.
In a few weeks she will be reigning at
Government House, and will receive
no lady there who cannot vouch for
the possession of an unspotted reputation.
So now perhaps you will seethe
harm you have done yourself by
your impudent attempt to forge off your
own error upon her.'

It would have made no difference to
my behaviour, madam, if Maraquita

had already been the Governor's wife.
The blameless burden laid upon me
still remains, and she will not lift it by
the raising of her little finger. I suppose
it is my fate to suffer and be
silent. But I think the time will come
when Quita will be sorry she had not
more pity for me to-day.'

Mamma, mamma,' cried Quita hysterically,
' tell her to go ! I can bear
no more of her reproaches. It is wicked
of her to speak like that. You know
that I have done nothing ; but if such
a story were to come to Sir Russell's
ears, it might ruin me for ever.'

It shall not come to his ears ! ' exclaimed
Mrs Courtney angrily ; ' and if
you attempt to repeat it, Elizabeth
Fellows, I will have your name, and
your dead father's name, branded from
one end of San Diego to the other

until not a soul in the island shall speak
to you. See if I do not.'

You will never have the opportunity
to carry out your cruel threat, madam.
I have told your daughter, and I tell
you, that my vow of secrecy to my beloved
father is sacred, and nothing shall
make me break it. From this hour, I
shall never mention the subject to any
living creature again.'

And with those words Liz turned on
her heel and walked out of the White
House. As she disappeared, Maraquita
threw herself into her mother's arms ina
burst of tears.

Oh, I am lost — I am lost ! ' she cried,
trembling with fear. ' We have made
her angry, and she may go and tell the
story everywhere, from revenge. How I
wish I had never seen De Courcelles.
It was wicked of him to take advantage

of me like that. And all the time he
was engaged to be married to Lizzie.
Oh, mother, I hate him — / hate him !
I wish that he was dead ! '

It is the proof of an ephemeral and
fancied passion that directly misfortune
or peril comes upon it, it turns to reproaching
and dislike. There is little
need to say that Maraquita's love for
Henri de Courcelles was founded on a
basis of self-esteem. Had it been otherwise,
their mutual error would have made
her cling all the closer to him as her one
haven of safety.

'If he is engaged to her, my dear,'
replied Mrs Courtney, with a view to
consolation, ' so much the better. They
are a very suitable pair, and their marriage
would rid you of a troublesome
suitor. I have heard something of it
before, but subsequent events made me

think I was mistaken. But I don't like
Monsieur de Courcelles. I consider him
a dangerous enemy, and should be glad
to know that he had settled down In life.'

But you promised me that papa should
send him away from Beauregard said
Quita fearfully.

And so he shall, my love, as soon
as ever we are on the hill range. You
may rest assured of that. Only we have
no power to send him out of San Diego,
and he may prove troublesome to us
yet. However, I have my own story to
tell papa, and it is one that will provide
against any emergency. But the first
thing to be done, Quita, Is to get you
away ; and the next, to make you Lady
Johnstonee. Then we shall be perfectly
safe.'

You will take care that no one else
comes in to see me to-day,' said Quita

languidly, ' for I feel quite worn out by
the annoyance I have undergone ? '

Certainly, my dearest girl. Jessica
shall see that you are not disturbed. And
now try and sleep, Quita, and don't be
afraid that there will be any repetition of
so disagreeable a scene. I think I have
let Miss Lizzie have a piece of my mind,
and that she will see I mean what I said.
Depend upon it, my dear, that no ill-natured
stories or repetitions can ever
harm you in the future. The girl is too
honest to break her word ; and if she
suffers a little from keeping it, she deserves
as much, for her mean attempt to coerce
you. Now, you must promise me to think
no more about the matter.'

Maraquita gave the required promise,
because she wanted to be left alone ; but as
she lay in the silent and shaded room, the
description that her adopted sister had

given her of little waxen hands and fingers,
of two dark wistful eyes, and a baby mouth
beginning to smile, recurred again and
again to her, until something very like
the longing of motherhood stirred in her
bosom, and made her sob herself to sleep.

gIZ FELLOWS went home that
day sadder than she had been

before. Her lover's defalcation
had been a natural sequence to the misfortune
that had overtaken her, compared
to this. He had judged her harshly, and
without proof, but he at least believed (or
she thought he did) that she had been
untrue to him, and his anger and contempt
were those of a dishonoured man. But
Maraquita's conduct admitted of no such
palliation. She knew better than any one
else, that Liz was innocent of the charge

laid against her, and yet she could coolly
deny the fact, and appeal to her mother to
join her in turning her adopted sister from
their doors. She could shield herself behind
the humiliation of her friend, — deny
her maternity, and delegate her sacred
duties — her most holy feelings — to another
woman.

Feelings ! Duties ! ' Liz stamped her
foot impatiently, as the terms occurred to
her mind. Maraquita had no feelings, and
recognised no duty. She was lower than
the feeble little animals, who would die
sooner than desert their young. She had
brought a helpless infant — presumably the
infant of her lover — into the world, and
would not even acknowledge it was hers.
Who was the father of this child, thought
Liz, that he could stand by quietly and
see the desertion of his offspring ? Had
he no natural instincts, any more than the

partner of his sin ? Would they both
leave their infant to the tender mercies
of the world, whilst they went their own
ways — one, to be married to the Governor
of San Diego — the other, Heaven best
knew where ? Well, she had staked her
last chance, and lost it. Henri de Courcelles
would never now receive the proof
of her innocence. He was lost to her forever,
and she must bear the burden of
shame laid upon her guiltless head as
best she might. As she re-entered the
bungalow, a wail from Quita's hapless
infant smote her with compassion.

My poor little orphan ! ' she exclaimed,
as she took it in her arms. ' You are
an outcast as well as myself. You have
no parents worthy of the name, and I
shall never know the joy of being a
mother. We must comfort each other
under this great calamity as best we may.

They say you are my little daughter, and
since they say so, I almost wish you
were. But I will love you like a daughter,
and teach you to love me like a mother,
and so you shall comfort my bruised
heart, and I will try and make your life
happy.'

Up to that moment Rosa had fed
and washed the baby, and slept with it
in her arms, but now Lizzie took all
these sweet maternal duties into her own
hands. She nursed it all that day, and
when night came she laid it in her own
bed. When it was fairly asleep, and
Rosa had run over to the negroes'
quarters to chat with her friends, Liz
sat down to her sewing in the sitting-room,
calmer and less perplexed than
she had been for days past.

Up to that time she had cherished
hope, but now all hope was over. She

knew the worst. It was bitterly hard
to know It, but at all events suspense
was at an end, and there was no new
trouble to learn. As she sat by the
shaded lamplight, wondering if Mr Courtney
knew the name of her father's
family, and If the knowledge could be
of any use to herself, she heard a light
footstep creeping softly along the verandah,
a footstep which she recognised
at once, and which she had been wont
to jump up and welcome. But now
Liz sat still, with burning cheeks bent
over her needlework. If Maraquita
wished to come to any terms with her,
she must be the one to propose them.
Liz had prayed her last prayer to the companion
of her childhood. Presently a very
low and fearful voice called her by her name.
Lizzie, Lizzie ! Are you quite alone ? '
But Lizzie refused to answer, and

Maraquita was compelled to advance into
the room. She looked very white and
scared, and the folds of her long mantle
fell round a fragile figure.

Lizzie ! Why will you not speak tome
? Papa and mamma have gone to
the theatre with Sir Russell Johnstonee ;
but I excused myself on the plea of
a headache, so that I might come and
see you.'

And what do you want with me ? '
demanded Lizzie coldly.

Cannot you guess 1 I am so unhappy
at what took place this morning.
I shall not rest until things are right
again between us.'

I do not understand you, Quita ! 1
conclude you spoke the truth this morning,
or what you believed to be the
truth, and I have nothing more to say
upon the subject.'

Oh, Lizzie, have pity on me ! You
know it was not the truth ; but what can
I do ? Everything that makes Hfe valuable
to me seems slipping through my
fingers. I could not make up my mind
to confess to my own ruin.'

And so you would ruin me instead —
I, who have been like a sister to you ?
You would save your own character at
the expense of mine ? '

But not for always, Lizzie. Only let
me get this marriage over, and I shall
be better able to see my way before me.
And I shall be rich, too, and able to reward
you for your kindness. The child
shall never be any burden to you, Lizzie.
You may depend upon me for that.'

And do you suppose I would take
your money ? ' cried the other contemptuously.
' Do you ask me to sell my
honour ? You accuse me publicly of being

the unmarried mother of this child,
and then offer to pay me for the disgrace.
You are only heaping insult upon insult,
Quita. You had better leave me before
you make me forget myself

Oh, no, Lizzie, I cannot leave you,'
exclaimed the unhappy girl, drawing nearer
to her, * until you have heard all I have
to say ! You have always been my best
friend, Lizzie. As a little child I used to
run to you in every trouble, and trust you
to get me out of every scrape. You will
not do less for me now, Lizzie, will you ? '

You ask too much, Maraquita. You
forget that in helping you out of this
danger, I involve myself, in the way
which good women dread above everything.
I have done it, but it is at the
expense of our friendship. I can never
be friends with you again.'

But you must — you must ! ' cried Quita,

falling on her knees, and hiding her face
in Lizzie's lap, ' for your father's sake,
Lizzie, if not for mine.'

I have done it for my father's sake,'
replied Lizzie, as she moved away from
Maraquita's clasp. * Do you suppose I
have not been thinking of him all to-day,
and of the promise I made him ? Nothing
else would have kept me silent ;
but it is over now, and we need say no
more upon the subject. I beg of you,
Quita, to leave me, and go home again,
for your presence here is very painful tome.'


Oh, Lizzie, don't be so hard ! I am
not the unfeeling creature you take me
for. It is only fear of my parents that
makes me shrink from confessing the
truth. They would kill me, Lizzie, if
they knew it. They would not let me
live to disgrace them.'

VOL. II. K

• Nonsense ! ' exclaimed Lizzie. * They
would do nothing of the sort. They
would reproach you as they have me, and
you richly deserve it. But tell the truth
whilst you are about it, Maraquita. Say
that you have no feeling either for your
child or its father (whoever he may be),
and I may believe what you say.'

But you are wrong interposed Quita
eagerly. ' I love him dearly, and I should
have loved // also, if I had not been afraid.
And I can prove it to you, Lizzie, for I
have come here to-night to see the baby,
and I shall come as often as I can without
exciting suspicion. Where is she ? Let
me see her at once.'

What baby ? ' demanded Liz, with
affected ignorance.

Oh, Liz ! how can you ask ? Why,
my own baby, of course ! The one you
have in charge.'

I thought you denied this morning that
you were a mother, Quita?'

I was obliged to do so. What could
I say, with mamma or papa liable to
come in at any moment ? You might
as well have asked me to cut my own
throat. But here, alone with you, I can
say anything ! I confess it is mine,
Lizzie, and that I knew all about it from
the beginning. I told your dear father
everything; and he promised that he and
you should stand my friends, and prevent
my secret from being published to the
world.'

I have heard all this before,' said
Lizzie, still engaged upon her sewing.

And now you will let me see her,
won't you ? You will let me hold her in
my arms for a little while ? I must not
stay long, for fear that meddlesome old
Jessica should come after me. You

will take me to my baby at once,

Lizzie ? '

No,' replied the Doctor's daughter
firmly.

What do you mean ? Isn't she here ? '

Yes ; but you will not see her.'

How dare you keep me from her ?
She is mine, not yours.'

You did not say so this morning.'

Ah, but then I was mad ! '

*Are you prepared, then, to take your
child back to the White House with you }
Will you confess the lie of which you
have been guilty to your parents, and
exonerate me in their eyes of the charge
you have brought against me ? '

Maraquita shrank backward.

Oh, Liz ! that is too much. I should
destroy all my prospects at a blow by
such an admission. Besides, it has nothing
to do with the matter. All I want

is to see the child. Surely you will not
refuse so trifling a request ? '

I do refuse it'

But you have no right to do so.'

By your own account, Maraquita, I
have every right. You declared before
your mother that this child was mine.
Therefore I will keep it as such, and I
refuse to let you see her.'

And I am determined not to leave
the bungalow till I have done so ! ' cried
Quita, rushing towards the bedroom door.

But Lizzie had reached it before she
did, and stood with her back against the
panels.

You shall not enter here,' she said, ina
tone of authority.

Then Quita took to beseeching. She
fell on her knees again, and held Lizzie
tightly clasped about her feet.

Oh, my dear sister, let me see my

baby, If only for a minute ! I have been
thinking of her ever since this morning,
Lizzie, — of the dark eyes you spoke of, —
the tiny waxen hands and feet, and the
rosebud mouth ; and I feel as if I should
die if I do not have her in my arms,
and kiss her, and tell her that I am her
mother.'

Will you tell the world so, Maraquita ? '
*You know that I cannot

Then you will not see your child
until you do,' replied Lizzie, as she locked
the bedroom door, and put the key into
her pocket. * You have openly disgraced
me by palming on me the consequences
of your own sin. You have denied your
motherhood, and given up your most
sacred rights and duties. Well, for your
sake, and to conceal your shame, I accept
them ; and the first act which I exercise
is to keep the child to myself

You actually refuse ? ' cried Quita,
starting to her feet, crimson with indignation.


Emphatically. There is only one way
you can secure the privilege, and that is
by an open confession of the truth.'

Then I shall never do it ! And you
may carry the burden to your life's end ! '
exclaimed Maraquita furiously. 'And another
with it, for you do not know all.
You have never asked me the name of
the father of this child ! You came crying
to me this morning about Henri de
Courcelles, and how much you loved him,
and how anxious he was to discover the
parentage of my baby. He has lied to
you ! He has made use of this dilemma
to get rid of you ; for he knows whose
baby this is as well as I do. He knows
the mother and the father of it — for thei
father is himself!'

She watched the hight fade out of
Lizzie's eyes as the cruel truth smote
upon her heart, and she grasped at the
back of a chair to save herself from falling.
But when the first shock was over,
she refused to believe the story.

'Henri! ' she exclaimed, in a faint voice.
But it is impossible ! Henri is — is —
mine ! '

He pretended to be ! * cried Quita
maliciously, * because it was a good blind
for them up at the White House, I
suppose, but he has been mine and
mine only for the last twelve months,
and he is nearly mad at the idea of
losing me now.'

And why must he lose you ? ' said
Lizzie quickly, forgetting her own pain
in her lover's wrongs. ' If what you say
is true, why do you not marry him, and
take care of your lite child between you .^ '

Maraquita shrugged her shoulders.

Because my people will not hear of
such a marriage for me, and think I
should lower myself by becoming the
wife of an overseer.'

'Not so much as you have lowered
yourself already, Quita.'

Perhaps not, but nobody knows that !
And then I am already engaged, so it
is of no use talking about anything else.'

Poor Henri,' sighed Lizzie.

I can't see why he is to be pitied !
He knew from the beginning that it
must all end some day. But I little
dreamt it would end like this. / am
the one who has suffered all the risk
and the blame, and yet no one seems
to pity me'

Lizzie was silent. Her heart was
burning within her, and yet pride prevented
her speech. It was cruelly humiliating

to find that all the time she had
been engaged to be married to De Courcelles,
he had been carrying on with
another girl, and had even had the audacity
to make his own fault the putative
cause for breaking off his engagement
to her. She could not decide at the
moment whether she loved or hated him
the most, his conduct appeared in so
mean and despicable a light.

You are right, Maraquita,' she continued,
after a pause. * He is not worthy
of your pity or mine. He has cruelly
deceived us both — and you perhaps the
most, since even, if he loved you best,
he has served you worst ! Even now —
in the first pitiless agony of hearing your
news — I can thank God I do not stand
in your position. And if you should ever
think better of your decision regarding
him, remember I shall not stand in your

light, for from this day Henri de Courcelles
will be less than nothing to me.'

But the child ! — you will not desert the
child ? ' exclaimed Quita, with something
like maternal anxiety In her voice.

Liz shuddered.

It will be a double burthen to me now,'
she answered ; ' but I have already resolved
to do as my father would have
wished me, and I will not shirk my self-imposed
duty. I will do my utmost for
the child.'

Oh, Lizzie, you are very good ! You
make me feel so ashamed of myself,' said
Quita, attempting to kiss her adopted
sister.

But Lizzie sprung aside from her.

Don't touch me ! ' she cried. ' Don't
stay near me any longer, or I shall be
unable to conceal the loathing I feel for
your conduct ! False lover — false mother

false friend! Oh, Maraquita, Mara-quite!
it would have been better if God
had called you to Himself when you were
as innocent as your unfortunate baby!
You and he, between you, have destroyed
all my faith in human nature.'

And Liz, throwing herself into a chair,
and laying down her head upon the table,
sobbed so bitterly and unrestrainedly,
that Quita, terrified at the sound, which
might attract spectators to spread abroad
the news of her being in the bungalow,
fled out into the darkness again, and made
her way back to the White House.

R COURTNEY was quite as
proud as his wife of the
grand marriage his daughter
was about to make. He was inordinately
fond of Maraquita, and would have
considered her a fit match for a prince
of the blood royal. At the same time,
he was only a planter, and it was a great
thing to know that his child was going
to marry the highest man in the island.
He had plenty of money to bestow on
her — Sir Russell Johnstonee had opened
his eyes when his future father - in - law

had mentioned the dowry he would receive
with his bride — and when Mara-quite
had obtained rank and position,
his best wishes for her would be gratified.
He was sitting in the room which
he called his office, and had just dismissed
Monsieur de Courcelles, when
his wife entered the apartment. Mr
Courtney had had occasion to find fault
with the overseer that morning. He
had not attended to several important
matters during the week, and seemed
sluggish and indifferent to his master's
orders. Mr Courtney suspected that he
had been drinking also, and accused him
of the fact, and De Courcelles' answers
had been too sullen to please him. He
was brooding over the change in the
young man's behaviour, when Mrs
Courtney came panting into the room.
It was not often she honoured her husband

with her presence during business
hours, and he saw at once that she had
some communication of importance to
make to him.

Well, my dear, what is it ? Quita not
worse this morning, I hope ? *

• Oh, no, Mr Courtney ! The dear
child grows stronger every hour, under
the knowledge of her delightful prospects,
and I am most anxious that nothing
should occur to mar her recovery,
for dear Sir Russell is naturally anxious
to have the wedding as soon as possible.'


Of course ; but that is for you and
Quita to decide. You know that I shall
spare no money to expedite matters. The
sooner the dear girl is Lady Johnstonee,
the better

So / say, Mr Courtney,' replied his
wife, looking anxiously round. ' But are

you likely to be undisturbed for a few
minutes ? Have you dismissed Monsieur
de Courcelles for the day ? '

'Yes, and not in the best of humours.
He is getting lazy, Nita, and I am not
sure that he is keeping as sober as he
should be. He gave me something very
like insolence this morning. Do you
know if anything is wrong with him '^
Is his engagement with Lizzie Fellows
still going on ? '

Oh, Mr Courtney, this is the very
subject on which I wished to see you.
De Courcelles has been behaving very
badly, in my estimation. You will hardly
believe, even when I tell you so, that he
has had the presumption to lift his eyes
to our Maraquita, and to swear he will
be revenged if she marries any other
man.'

'Impossible!' cried Mr Courtney, starting.

He had had his own suspicions respecting
the young overseer's admiration
for his daughter and heiress, and, on a
former occasion, he had told him so, but
he had never had any idea that it had
come to an open avowal between them.
Do you mean to tell me,' he continued,
that De Courcelles has had the audacity
to address Maraquita on this subject, and
to make her cognisant of his affection ? '

Oh, Mr Courtney, where can your
eyes be ? How blind you men are !
Why, he has been at the poor child's
feet for twelve months past ; and Quita
has kept him gently off, fearing to deprive
you of a valuable servant ; but now
it has gone too far, and I feel it is time
I spoke.'

I thought he admired her, and told
him there was no hope for him, some
little time back ; but he assured me I

VOL. II. L

was mistaken. I offered, at the same
time, to forward his marriage with Lizzie
Fellows, but he declared that there was
no engagement between them

Then he has been deceiving you all
round, and is not worthy of your trust
and confidence. He was engaged to
Lizzie. She told Quita so yesterday, only
he broke it off on account of this disgraceful
affair at the bungalow. But all the
while he has been persecuting our poor girl
with his addresses, until she is positively
afraid of him, or what he may do

But what can he do ? Surely he has
not dared to threaten her ? '

He has said he will kill her at the
very altar, sooner than she shall marry Sir
Russell, or any other man, and has thrown
the poor child into such a state of distress
and perturbation, that I feel certain,
unless her mind can be set at complete

rest concerning him, it will greatly retard
her recovery.'

'But it must be set at rest. This is
quite unbearable ! ' exclaimed the planter,
striding up and down the room ; ' De
Courcelles must leave Beauregard at
once. I shall give him his dismissal this
afternoon.'

Not this afternoon, Mr Courtney.
Wait until we are safe on the hill range,
and then send him straight away. Mara-quite
will have no peace until she hears
that he is gone.'

Fancy the presumption of his aspiring
to the hand of our daughter ! ' continued
Mr Courtney indignantly. ' A man without
a sixpence beyond his weekly stipend,
and no chance of increasing that. It is
the most barefaced impudence I ever
heard of. He shall get the sack before
he is a day older.'

But you will do it on some other pretence
I hope, Mr Courtney. You will not
bring in Quita's name. I should be sorry
for it to get known that he dared to fall in
love with her. People are so ill-natured ;
they might say she had given the fellow
some encouragement.'

They will not dare to say anything
against Lady Russell,' said the father
triumphantly. ' When do you start for
the hill range, my dear ; and when is
the wedding to be ? '

We go tomorrow morning. I have
ordered our palanquins for four o'clock,
and Joseph has arranged the coolie service
as far as the Government bungalow.
Quita wanted to ride up with Sir Russell,
but I am afraid of taxing her strength as
yet. As for the wedding, they have fixed
it between themselves for the fourteenth
of next month. Quita's things cannot all

be ready, but Sir Russell is willing to take
her as she is, until the trousseau is complete.
I never saw a man more in love in
my life. He is quite infatuated with
her.'

And well he may be, for there is nota
prettier nor sweeter girl on all the
islands. Well, my dear, De Courcelles
must go, there is no doubt of that, unless,
indeed, he will marry Lizzie Fellows.
That would put a stop to all unpleasantness
at once.'

'Marry Lizzie Fellows!' echoed Mrs
Courtney ; * what, after he has been in love
with our Quita ! Well, I should be very
much surprised if he could do that.'

'But he was engaged to her (as you
say), or nearly so. Poor Fellows told meas
much himself And it would be but
reasonable for De Courcelles to settle
down. He can't have Maraquita, that's

quite certain, and he might do worse than
fulfil his word to poor Lizzie.*

What, after she has disgraced herself?'

My dear, are you certain she has disgraced
herself ? She assured me most
solemnly that child was not her own, and
had nothing to do with her, and I have
never known Lizzie tell a lie. It is as
Incomprehensible to me as it is to you,
and I cannot understand my old friend
Fellows leaving the poor girl in such a
painful position. Still, you must not forget
that I have been just as true to him
as Lizzie evidently is to some other person
; and we should be the last people to
disbelieve her word, because she is unable
to give us any further explanation of It.'

Mrs Courtney had greatly fidgeted and
changed colour under her husband's kindly
pleading.

Oh, Mr Courtney, I really have no

patience with you ! Do you honestly think
any woman would incur such a public disgrace,
without making an effort to clear
her character ? I questioned Lizzie closely
myself only yesterday, and she refused to
open her lips, even to me, who have
known her from a baby. It is quite
incredible, and there is only one solution of
the mystery — that she pretends to possess
this stern sense of honour, in order to hide
her want of it.'

Is it possible that De Courcelles can
be the father of this child ? ' said Mr
Courtney musingly, hitting the right nail
on the head without knowing it.

I daresay he is ! I shouldn't be surprised
at anything I might hear of
Monsieur de Courcelles.'

Well, my dear, I suppose he must go,'
returned her husband, with a sigh ; ' and I
will speak to him as soon as ever you

have left the White House. I cannot
have Maraquita annoyed ; and Indeed If he
has behaved shabbily to poor Lizzie, it Is
not right he should continue to live In her
sight. So you may consider that matter
seeded.'

Upon which assurance Mrs Courtney
returned to her own room, to promise her
daughter that she should never again be
subjected to her cast-off lover's appeals or
reproaches ; and the following morning
De Courcelles watched their palanquins
leaving Beauregard, from the shelter of
the oleander thicket. A few hours after,
he walked as usual into the presence of
his employer. When the day's business
had been disposed of, the overseer rose to
go, but Mr Courtney detained him.

Take a chair for a few minutes, De
Courcelles, I have something of Importance
to say to you. You may remember

a brief conversation that took
place between us a few weeks back, on
the occasion of Miss Courtney's illness.
I warned you that it would be wise to
keep your admiration of her within bounds,
and you assured me that you had done so.
My wife tells me a different story. She
says that Maraquita is both distressed and
annoyed by your evident predilection for
her, and I cannot have my daughter annoyed.
Therefore I think it is best that
we should part.'

Mr Courtney was an honest man by
nature, unused to finesse or intrigue of any
kind, and he had quite forgotten his wife's
caution with respect to introducing Quita's
name as a reason for the overseer's dismissal.
He had gone straight at his
fences, and the leap was over. Henri
de Courcelles flushed dark crimson as the
subject was thus openly mentioned to him.

I am quite unaware how I can have
annoyed Miss Courtney,' he replied. ' I
have not even seen her since her recovery.'

'Is that the case?' demanded the planter.
Then perhaps it was before. But anyway,
as she is so shortly to be married to
the Governor of San Diego, you must seethe
propriety of discontinuing any false
hopes you may have entertained concerning
her.'

Miss Courtney's engagement is, then,
a settled thing ? ' said De Courcelles
bitterly.

Certainly, and the wedding-day is fixed
for the fourteenth of next month. My
daughter will soon rank as the highest
lady in the island, and any kindness which,
as a young and thoughtless girl, she may
have shown you (or any other friend) in
the past, must not form any pretension
for claiming to be on familiar terms with

the Governor's wife, or Sir Russell John-stone
might resent it as an insult.'

I understand you perfectly, sir, and
Lady Johnstonee need fear no recognition
of any claims I may have had upon Miss
Courtney, from me.'

Claims ! I do not understand the
term, De Courcelles. What claims could
you possibly have upon my daughter ?
You are forgetting yourself. Miss Courtney
can never have been anything to you
but a gracious young mistress and friend.'
That is how it may be, sir. Miss
Courtney knows her own secrets best,
and doubtless she has chosen wisely in
electing to become the wife of the Governor.
Rank and position cover a multitude
of sins.'

Mr Courtney did not like the style of
address adopted by his overseer, but he
scarcely knew how to resent it. He was

half afraid to tell him to speak out. What
if Maraqulta had really been light of conduct,
and employed her leisure time in
flirting with his overseer ? It would bea
very embarrassing discovery, but not
an unnatural one, when De Courcelles'
extreme beauty and grace of form were
taken into consideration. So he thought
it prudent to change the topic.

Well, well,' he said testily, ' we are
not here to discuss Miss Courtney's conduct,
but your own. You have not been
quite the same as usual lately, De Courcelles.
I have observed an unsteadiness,
and a disposition to sloth in you, which
has grieved me. Come now, let us
talk this matter over like two men of the
world. We will suppose you have had
a slight predilection for my daughter.
I am not surprised at it, and I do not
blame you ; but you must have known

it could never be anything more. Well,
in a few weeks she will be married, and
pass out of your life. What is the use
of spoiling the rest of it for her sake ?
Why not settle down and make a home
for yourself? If you were married,
all this little unpleasantness would be
smoothed away.'

That is easy to say, Mr Courtney,
but not so easy to do.'

I don't agree with you. There is a
nice girl close to your elbow, of whom
I spoke to you at the same time I
mentioned my daughter. I mean Lizzie
Fellows. Ah, you start ! You have
heard this rumour about her, I suppose,
in common with others, and fancy it is
true. But I am sure it is not, De Courcelles.
I have known Lizzie from a child,
and I would stake my life upon her
honesty.*

You allude to the infant of which she
was left in charge, sir ? '

I am glad to hear you mention it
like that. It proves you believe her
story. You told me there was no engagement
between you, but Mrs Courtney
informs me there was, and you broke it
off on account of this child. But women
jump at conclusions so : perhaps she is
mistaken.'

De Courcelles was quite capable of
defending himself.

Miss Fellows and I were riot regularly
engaged at the time you spoke to me,
sir, nor have we been since. Only when
Lizzie refused to give me any explanation
concerning her nurse-child, I said
in my haste that want of confidence was
the death of friendship, and that we had
better not meet again.'

And you regret so hasty a decision ? '

Why do you ask me, sir ? '

Because if you and Lizzie like each
other, I should be pleased to see you
married. I am fond of the girl, and
consider her a sacred charge ; and marriage
would silence these cruel slanders
against her, sooner than anything else.
If you can make up your minds on the
subject, De Courcelles, I will do for you
what I promised before — raise your salary,
furnish the Oleander Bungalow afresh,
and settle it on you and your wife, and
all these little disagreeable will be forgotten
before three months are over our
heads.'

And if not, sir ? ' inquired the overseer
hastily.

If no, De Courcelles, we must part.
I am sorry to say it, but I shall consider
your refusal (or Lizzie's) as a proof that
the less you are about the White House

in the future the better. Not the
slightest taint — not even the bare suspicion
of one — must rest on the fair
name of the future Lady Johnstonee.'

I understand you, Mr Courtney, and
I will consider your proposal. How soon
do you expect to get my answer ? '

Not until you are quite prepared to
give it me. You have plenty of time before
you. My wife and daughter will be
away on the hills for a month, and I have
no wish to part with an old friend in such
a hurry. Think of it well, De Courcelles.
I will look over any of the little derelictions
of duty to which I have alluded, in consideration
of the disappointment which you
must have suffered ; but my decision is final
with regard to Miss Fellows. You must
either marry her, or leave my service.'

De Courcelles left the planter's presence
ofrindino^ his teeth with ra<j:e. He had

burned, while listening to his talk about
his daughter's marriage and future prospects,
to tell him to his face that Mara-quite
was, to all intents and purposes, his
wife, and the mother of the child at the
bungalow. But he dared not ! He was
afraid not only of the planter but of the
negro population, if such a story got wind
in the plantation. Revenge is sometimes
very swift and sure in the West Indies,
especially when the natives are in a state
of insubordination. Besides, he would
gain nothing by such an admission. It
would not give him back Maraquita —
faithless, perjured Maraquita, who, having
slipped from his grasp into the arms of
the Governor of San Diego, had instigated
her parents, by a tissue of falsehoods, to
dismiss him summarily from Beauregard.
And it would have robbed him of the hope
of revenge — a hope sweeter to a Spanish

VOL. II. M

Creole even than love. As Henri de
Courcelles thought of it, his hand tightened
over the stiletto he always carried in his
belt. Banishment from Beauregard would
mean to sit down for the remainder of his
life under this bitter wrong, without the
satisfaction of feeling he had avenged it
At all hazards he must remain near this
false love of his. She should never feel
secure from him. He would appear before
her in her most triumphant moments, and
make her tremble with the fear that he
was about to accuse her openly of her
secret crime. Maraquita Courtney should
never know another peaceful moment,
whilst he lived to terrify her. But the
opportunity depended on his marrying
Lizzie Fellows. Well, if it must be soit
must be so. Henri de Courcelles, strolling
down the path between the rows of
coffee trees, and caressing his handsome

moustaches as he went, seemed to have no
doubt that he had but to ask to obtain.
The conceit of men, where women are
concerned, knows no bounds. Every
woman, according to their creed, is only
too ready to fly into their arms. The
good old days when knights were not considered
worthy to ask for a lady's hand
until they had achieved some doughty
deed to make her proud of them, are gone
for ever. Yet, if a girl is particular, or
indifferent, or hard to please, she is voted
to be either a prude or a jilt. The rougher
sex require a few hard raps occasionally, to
keep them in order, and the woman who
puts them in their place, confers a benefit
on the whole of her kind. As Monsieur
de Courcelles strolled along, his footsteps
carried him in the direction of Lizzie's
bungalow, and thinking no time like the
present, he halted on the threshold, and

called her by her name. The recollection
of how he had last left her presence made
him hesitate to walk boldly into it, but he
was quite confident that he had but to ask
her forgiveness to obtain it. Lizzie was
just about to visit her sick negroes. She
was dressed in a white gown, covered with
an apron and a high bib of brown holland,
and on her head she wore a broad-brimmed
hat, tied with a black ribbon. She looked
pale and weary, but the look of perplexity
was gone from her face, and her general
expression was calm. She was filling her
basket with such medicines as were necessary,
when she heard her name called in
the old familiar tones of De Courcelles.
As the sound struck on her ear, she turned
even whiter than before, but resentment
prevented her losing her presence of mind.
What do you want with me } ' she demanded
sharply.

Only a few words of explanation and
apology. May I come in, Lizzie ? I
have been longing to do so ever since we
parted.'

You can enter if you wish it, monsieur,
but I cannot imagine what you can possibly
have to say to me. I have looked
upon our last meeting as a final one.'

But may you not change your opinion
of it, and of me ? ' replied the overseer, ashe
entered the room, and advanced to her
side. * I know I sinned against you grossly,
almost beyond forgiveness, but you must
make allowance for the whirlwind of passion
I was in, — for the awful doubt that
had assailed me.'

I cannot admit that as any excuse for
your conduct, monsieur. You had my
word that I was innocent, and you were
supposed to be my friend. There is no
friendship without trust and confidence.'

Do not say " supposed' Lizzie. I
was your friend, as I am now, and ever
will be, if you will forgive my hasty words,
and reinstate me in my old position

That can never be,' she rejoined
hastily. *You were supposed to be much
more than my friend, but you deceived
me all along.'

How can you speak so ? How did I
deceive you, Lizzie ? '

I would rather not discuss the subject,
monsieur,' said Lizzie, taking up her
basket. * This is my time for visiting
my patients, and they will be expecting
me. I must wish you good-morning.'

No, no ; I cannot let you go until we
have arrived at some explanation ! ' exclaimed
de Courcelles, detaining her by
the folds of her dress. 'You accuse me
of deceiving you, and yet I thought my
fault lay in being too outspoken. I know

I shouldn't have said what I did. I
regret it deeply, from the bottom of
my heart, and I humbly ask your pardon
for the implied affront. Is not that
sufficient ? '

It is more than sufficient,' replied
Lizzie coolly, as she disengaged her gown
from his grasp, * and more than I wished
you to say. However, I accept your
apology, and we will say no more about
it. Now, will you please to let me go?'

No, you must stay ! Put off your
visits till this afternoon, and hear me
out. I have not told you half my story.
Have you quite forgotten that we are
engaged to be married, Lizzie ? '

I have not forgotten it, but I have
ceased to believe in it. You ruptured
our engagement of your own free will.'

But that was in my anger, and a few
angry words, Lizzie, are powerless to

undo the tie which had existed for a
twelvemonth. I did not mean what I
said. I have regretted it ever since, and
I am here this morning to ask you to
forgive it, and let our engagement stand
as it did before.'

He was drawing closer to her, confident
In his powers of fascination, but she
pushed him from her.

Monsieur de Courcelles, I am surprised
at you ! I am surprised now to
think that I should ever have believed
in you, or thought the engagement you
entered into with me anything but a
blind for your more serious intentions in
another quarter.'

He started backward with astonishment,
little dreaming that she knew the
whole of Maraqulta s sad history.

I don't understand you,' he gasped.
I have never been engaged to any

woman but yourself. I don't desire to
marry any other woman. I came here
,to-day with the express purpose of asking
you to condone the past, and marry
me as soon as may be convenient to you.'

A few weeks before, how her heart
would have beat at such a proposal, how
her cheek would have flamed assent, and
her humid eyes have sought his with
grateful love. But now she sprang
aside as if he had insulted her, and
flashed defiance on him to repeat the
offence.

How dare you?' she panted. 'How
dare you speak to me of marriage — you,
who have treated me with scorn and
contumely ? '

But I have acknowledged my error,
Lizzie. Surely you are not a woman
to resent a fault for ever. You used to
love me, I am sure of that's

Don't be too sure,' she interposed
hastily. * I loved something I know, —
some creature conjured up by my imagination,
but not the man of flesh and
blood I see before me. For I did not
know you then, and no one can love an
unknown person.'

Lizzie, you are very hard upon me !
I am not perfect, any more than other
men, but I don't know what I can have
done to merit such bitter taunts from
you. At all events, try and know me
now as the man who loves you, and entreats
you to marry him. Lizzie, be my
wife ! Mr Courtney is aware of our attachment,
and has made a very generous
offer of assistance, if we marry each
other. If your affection for me was ever
true, you will not refuse me now.'

My affection for you was true,' replied
Lizzie, looking him full in the face ;

and all the more does that make me
say I will never marry you now. Never
Not if there was not another man in the
world.'

But why ? Surely you will give me a
reason for your refusal, Lizzie.'

My reason is soon given, monsieur.
Maraquita — my earliest friend and my
adopted sister — was here last night. She
came to ask permission to see the child,
of whom both of you have accused me
of being the mother, and I refused her.
I told her since I had to bear the blame,
I would also maintain the authority over
it. And then — in a moment of passion,
I suppose — somewhat like that moment
which influenced you basely to get out
of your engagement to me by means of
a lie — she told me the name of the child's
father. Now, do you wonder that I say
that henceforth there never can be any

communion between you and me, except
of the most ordinary kind. The man who
could take advantage of his own sin to
ruin the character of an innocent woman,
will never make a good husband to anyone,
and I have done with you for ever ! '

Henri de Courcelles turned his face
away to the open window, the dark blood
mantling for very shame into his cheeks.

I have nothing to say for myself,' he
muttered presently. * I am only a man,
and men are very open to temptations
such as these. But if I have sinned, I
have also suffered. I was led on by a
heartless woman, who has deserted her
child, and thrown me over for the first
suitor who presents himself with money
and position in his hands. I would
have married her willingly, but she
refused to marry me. She is an
infernal jilt, with as false a heart and

tongue as ever woman had; and she has
been my ruin. She is nothing to me
now, and she never will be. If you took
compassion on me, Lizzie, and healed mysore
heart with your pure affection, you
should never have reason to complain of
even my thoughts straying that way. I
hate the very name of her.'

That is no palliation of your fault, in
my eyes, monsieur. I should feel for you
more if you told me her desertion had
made you miserable. But why do you
not appeal to Mr Courtney to stop this
unnatural marriage ? Did he know the
truth, he would surely never allow his
daughter so to prostitute herself.'

What good should I effect by that,
Lizzie ? Mr Courtney would only banish
me at once from Beauregard. Do you
suppose he would give up the prospect
of Maraquita becoming the Governor's

wife, for the sake of an overseer ? Besides,
he already suspects that I admire
her, and has told me as much, with the
rejoinder that the only condition on which
I can retain my situation is to fulfil my
engagement with you, and settle down at
the Oleander Bungalow as a married man.
In that case, he has promised to refurnish
the house, and raise my salary. So, you
see, we should be very comfortable; and,
if you wished it, you could retain your
medical appointment over the plantation.'
And so / am to be made the scapegoat
to bear your sins into the wilderness,
and to patch up your injured character at
Beauregard! You have mistaken me altogether.
I am capable, I think, of making
great sacrifices for a man who loves me,
but not for one who rightly belongs to
another woman. You will not retain your
position at Beauregard through ny means.'

Then I am ruined,' returned the overseer
fiercely, ' and I owe my downfall to
you two women ! You have destroyed
my life between you. I shall be turned
off the plantation, without a prospect of
employment. And if I become desperate,
it will be laid at your door.'

At Maraquita's, if you please, monsieur,
but not at mine. I would have clung to
you through good and evil report, had
you been true to me. But I cannot forget
the cruel infamy you put upon me,
knowing it to be false. It is a crime pasta
woman's forgiveness, — a calumny that
will cling to me through life, even though
you married me in church tomorrow.
Yet I would rather go down to the grave
enduring it, than become your wife

'It is finished then ! ' exclaimed De
Courcelles, seizing his hat and rushing
from the apartment, * and I will trouble

you no more on the subject, now or ever
and the next moment he was striding
hurriedly towards his home.

Lizzie trembled as he left her, but she
did not weep. Her stock of tears was
exhausted. And had they not been, a
cry from the infant in the next room
would have dried them at their fount.
She summoned Rosa, who was basking
asleep in the verandah, to its assistance,
and with a deep, deep sigh for her dead
past, lifted her basket, and took her way
to the coolie quarters.

ERUSHA, the East Indian
coolie, sat at the door of her
hut, nursing her baby on her
knee, and with a very sullen expression
on her countenance. Indeed, all the hands
on Beauregard had borne more or less
of a rebellious look of late. They had
no particular grudge against Mr Courtney,
who was a kind, if rather an indolent
master, delegating all his duties to his
overseer ; but they detested Henri de
Courcelles, and the accounts of his cruelty,
and selfishness, and dishonesty, formed the

VOL. II.

N

staple portion of their conversation. His
very beauty, and evident self-consciousness
of it, the vast superiority which he
assumed over them, and the rigour with
which he carried out the rules of the
plantation, all combined to set the coolies
against him, and they thirsted to find out
something which might degrade him from
his office. The reports from the Fort, too,
the constant attempts at rising which had
to be quelled, had incited them on to
imitation, and altogether the plantation
workers were seething under a sense of
wrong, and ripe for rebellion. Poor little
Jerusha, with her handsome half-caste
baby in her arms, might have furnished
them with a pretext for denouncing the
overseer, had not her case been too
common a one amongst them. But to
the girl it meant the devastation of her
life. She had not courted her destiny.

She had been landed in San Diego, a
poor trembling Indian coolie amongst a
herd of fellow-sufferers, who had been persuaded
to leave Calcutta under a promise
of good wages, and plenty of food, and very
little work, and after a voyage of four
months (during which they had been
herded between decks like so many
swine), had been marched ashore at San
Diego, too weak and frightened and disappointed
to have any hope left in them,
unless it were that they might die. They
had been all standing together for hire,
when De Courcelles had sauntered by
and picked out the likely ones for Mr
Courtney's plantation. Jerusha well remembered
how he came like a prince
amongst them, and how handsome he had
looked in his white linen suit and broad-brimmed
hat, with the blue silk handkerchief
knotted at his throat, and the

crimson rose blooming in his button-hole,
and when he had stopped beside her
and spoken to her in his low soft tone,
she had thought him more glorious still.
She had not sought him out, this poor
little Indian girl, but he had pertinaciously
come after her. He had asked for her
the very day after she had entered the
plantation, and put so many questions
as to whether her hut was comfortable,
and her food sufficient, that Jerusha was
quite bewildered. And then he had
given her new clothes, smart dresses —
such as the natives love to deck themselves
in — and gold earrings for her ears ;
and the usual consequence followed. She
fell to the tempter's seductive arts. It
was a sort of heaven to the poor untaught
coolie to be selected from all the
other girls to be the favourite of the
handsome young overseer. She never

troubled her head to think how long
his preference would last. She knew that
he would never marry her — she would
have laughed at so ludicrous an idea —
and yet she fancied somehow that her
happiness would never end, and was
terribly disappointed and bitterly incensed
when the day came that De Courcelles
ordered her back to her quarters with the
other coolies, and refused to make any
difference between them. She had reproached
him with his conduct on the
occasion which has been related, but, if
anything, it had had the effect of making
him more severe with her, and Jerusha
realised at last that all was over between
them, and that she had been only a tool
and a plaything to minister to his short-lived
pleasure. She was pondering resentfully
on his neglect as she sat on
the ground, with both her hands clasped

round her knees to make a cradle for
her little Henri, as she would persist in
calling the child, greatly to the annoyance
of the overseer. Henri was a
beautiful infant, large and round and
buoyant, with much more of the father
than the mother in his appearance. He
was gaily dressed in a short calico shirt
of red and white striped cotton, with
bangles on his fat brown arms, and a
string of blue beads round his neck,
and as Jerusha rocked him to and fro,
and heard him crow with delight at
the exercise, the gloom on her face
would suddenly disappear, and she would
seize the boy in her arms and kiss
him vehemently. As she was thus
amusing herself, a shadow fell between
her and the setting sun, and old Jessica
from the White House stood before
her. Jessica had been much put outby

her young mistress leaving her
behind when she started for the hill
range. It was the first time such a
thing had occurred, and the old nurse
felt it accordingly. Had she not waited
on Missy Quita, hand and foot, ever
since she was a baby ? and if she had
been sharp enough to discover her
secret, had she not kept it as faithfully
as Missy would have done herself? And
why should Missy Quita leave her
behind just as she had obtained her
wish and was on the road to make
the great marriage that Jessica had
always foretold for her ? The faithful
old negress felt aggrieved ; and when
sunset came, and Mr Courtney had
gone out for his evening drive, and
the White House seemed deserted, her
heart turned to her old friends in the
negro quarters, and she walked down to

have a chat with them, and unburden
herself of her troubles.

Eh, Jerusha, gal ! ' she exclaimed, as
she caught sight of the young East
Indian, 'and how's de baby? He berry
fine boy, Jerusha. He make big strong
coolie, time-by.*

Coolie,' repeated Jerusha scornfully.
My little Henri never make coolie boy.
I tell you dat. Aunty Jess. Henri's a
lord's son, and he'll be gennelman, bime-
by.'

You go ways, Jerusha ; you talking
nonsense ! Lords is only for great ladies
like my Missy Quita.'

Missy Quita going to marry a lord?'
said Jerusha inquisitively, as Jessica
took a seat beside her.

'Wall, he's not quite a lord yet, but
I 'spect he will be time-by. But he's a
great rich gennelman, and the Governor

of San Diego, and that's next to being
a king — ^jes' so ! But I wish my missy-take
me up to hills with her. I never
been les behind before. I can't tell why
my missy think to go without me.'

Prays she want de lord all to herself—'


I not interfering' wit her little games !
All her life I let her do ses' as she like ;
and she don't mind ole Jessica ! Ah, I
know more dan one secret ob my missy's
you bet, Jerusha ! '

I essay ! All gals hab dere secrets,
and dere lovers too. Dis lord not Missy
Quita's first lover, / know.'

Why, o' course not — handsome young
lady like dat. But de good looks not
allays de good heart. Missy not grateful,
'pears to me,' grumbled Jessica. * She
not want me any longer now she got
Sir Russell to wait on her.'

De good looks not allays de good
heart,' echoed Jerusha ; ' you may well
say dat, Aunty Jess. De good looks
sometimes cover de debbil's heart — like
Massa Courcelles' ! '

Sakes ! what you know 'bout him,
Jerusha ? '

I don't know no good of him,
Aunty

*Tes' like all de rest ob de world. I
nebber could bear dat overseer ; he berry
bad fellow; and dis morning he 'suited me
dreadfully. Tes' hear, Jerusha. I coming'
from White House, quiet as could be, wit
nothing' to do, now my missy gone, when
I meet dat Courcelles walking' along and
swearing' to himself. He came straight upto
me and he say, " Out ob my way, you
d — d old hag ! If it hadn't been for your
peeping' and listening', I believe I should
have had my own way. Wait till I get

you down to de cotton fields agen, and
I'll serve you out for dis.'

Laws, Aunty Jess, and what pott
say ?'

/ say " You ses' stop dat, you badman.
I knows all about you; and you'll
nebber get me down to cotton fields
agen, for if you tries it, I'll blow de
roof ob de Oleander Bungalow off your
head, and tell de ole master everything"'


An' what Is der to tell ? ' cried
Jerusha, with sudden interest.

Sakes, gal, more than you guess !
But I don't see why I shouldn't tell
you, now my missy safe, and going' to
marry de Governor. 'Sides, my missy
not behave berry grateful to me. 'Tis
de way wit de white folk. Why, Jerusha,
dat overseer Missy Quita's lover for
over a year, and she go out night after

night to meet him in de bungalow, as
I'm a Vin' woman — '

She — go — meet — Massa Courcelles ? *
gasped Jerusha.

Sure ! And more, dat baby down
at Doctor's bungalow no more Miss
Lizzie's child than it is yours. Dat
baby 'long to Missy Quita and Massa
Courcelles. / knows ! but I never tell
till my missy so ungrateful as to leave
me behind, and dat man swear and
call me *' d — d hag ! " But you neb-ber
tell nobody else, Jerusha ! You
keep dat secret like your life, till
de wedding's over — and then, what
matter 1 '

Dat baby is his ? Oh, de false man ! '
cried the coolie, with flashing eyes, as
she sprang to her feet, and held little
Henri at arm's length. ' And dis chile
ob mine, dis white-skinned boy, who

you think he 'long to, Aunty Jessica ?
Why, to that villain too ! Dat's his
fader ! Your fine Massa Courcelles,
what ruin your missy and me same
time ! '

What you say, Jerusha ? Your baby's
fader de overseer ? '

Sure ! Didn't he favour me over all
de other coolie girls on de plantation ?
Didn't he give me my earrings and
bangles and my Sunday shawl, and
tell me I de prettiest girl he ember see ?
And I fool enough to believe him,
Aunty ; I thinking' he hub me allays,
and be good to me, for little Henri's
sake. But when he found I should
hab a baby, he sent me back to de
fields, and I work dere till I nearly
drop. And he beat me — yes, Aunty ! '
shrieked Jerusha in her rage, as she
turned her flaming eyes up to the

skies ; ' he whipped me and my poor
baby, and laughed when I dared him
to strike us ! And I vowed to ahab
my revenge on him, and I will hab it
yet. Massa Courcelles shall live to
wish he nebber deceived a poor coolie
girl, or struck her baby ! That's so ! '

And ril help you, Jerusha, for I hate
dat man, and I swore once to give him
obeah water for deceiving my poor
missy. And now he serve you de
same — dat's twice bad ; and I know
shudder heart what he's broken, though
she as good and pure as de white May
lilies in de garden — and dat's Miss
Lizzie.'

'Nebber Miss Lizzie!' cried Jerusha
incredulously. ' Miss Lizzie do wicked
ting '^. Why, she's de best woman I
ember see ! '

No, no, Jerusha ! I not mean dat.

Only dis villain make hub to de poor
gal, and promise to marry her, and now
she breaking' her heart because he so
false. Rosa tell me everything. She
pretend to be asleep in verandah dis
morning, and hear all they say. Miss
Lizzie 'clare she nebber, nebber marry
him now.'

She miserable woman if she do,' said
Jerusha. ' But hush, Aunty Jess, here
come Miss Lizzie. Don't say muffin
'bout little Henri 'fore her. She too
good and sweet ! She not like us ! I
never dare tell her who was his fader.'

As the coolie spoke, Lizzie came up to
them, pale but smiling. She carried her
basket as usual on her arm, and as soon
as she saw little Henri, she drew a small
sponge-cake from a selection of such
dainties which she carried for the sick,
and held it out to heir

What a beauty he grows, Jerusha !
He will soon be out of arms now, and
toddling after you everywhere.'

Yes, Missy Liz, he very fine boy,'
replied the young mother, in a subdued
tone.

'Is anything the matter?' said Lizzie,
quickly glancing from Jerusha to the old
nurse. * No bad news of Miss Maraquita,
I hope, Jessica ?'

Oh, no, Missy Liz. Missy quite well
enough, I guess. 'Tis them she leave
behind what feel bad.'

You miss her, I daresay, and the White
House seems dull without her. Well,
you will soon be gay enough when the
wedding takes place.'

I repose so. Missy Liz. Is dat baby
at your bungalow all right, missy ? ' continued
Jessica inquisitively.

Lizzie flushed to the roots of her hair.

She had encountered some impertinence
on this subject before, and she feared
a repetition of it.

It is quite well, Jessica, although it
is very weakly, and I am not at all sure
of rearing it.'

'' A good ting if it die,' said the nurse ;
and if all such babies died. Missy Liz —
we've no room for them here.'

You shouldn't say that, Jessica,' returned
Lizzie mildly ; ' for it may be
God's will that it should live.'

Better say good ting if its fader died ! '
exclaimed Jerusha. 'That's the sort we've
no room for. Ah, Missy Liz, no use
you opening your eyes like dat. We
know plenty on dis plantation, we do ! —
and we know de good from de bad too,
and may de Lord help us to root 'em out.'

Have you any special enemy here then,
Jerusha.'^' demanded Lizzie.

VOL. II. o

Yes, I have,' replied the coolie, with
dogged determination. * Massa Courcelles
is my special enemy, and I hate him !*

Monsieur de Courcelles, Jerusha ? Has
he been unkind to you, or done you any

w

long :

'He has done me dis wrong!' cried
Jerusha, holding out her baby. * He has
given me dis chile, and blows on the top
of it!'

She would have said more, but Lizzie
put her hand to her head, and, with a
low cry, passed swiftly from them. The
women gazed after her in astonishment.
They could not understand a nature without
any feeling of revenge in it, — with
only the deepest pain for the sins of one
it loved, and a horror of hearing them
mentioned by others. They thought
that Lizzie had misunderstood them, or
had not heard aright.

Days funny!' exclaimed Jerusha.
Tears I didn't put things right, or she
would have smacked little Henri on the
head, or killed him dead, as I'd like to
kill dat baby at de bungalow.'

Missy Liz not one of our sort,' said
Jessica. ' She allays berry quiet and
gentle, but I guess she feel same as
rest.'

Does she know about dat baby at de
bungalow ? '

I 'spect she knows everything, and dat
des low niggers say it is her chile : same
as Massa Courcelles did ! Poor Miss
Lizzie, she's too good for us. She
daughter run a knife into him and the
chile too.'

That's so,' cried Jerusha ; * and dat's
what / will do for her ! I full of revenge,
Jessica. I like to get up some night and
fire de Oleander Bungalow, and burn dat

man in his bed ! I like to stick him wit
knife, same as pig — an' to make him
drink poison water till he die.'

Better give him de obeah water —
dat safe and silent,' replied the nurse ;
but you must do it secret, Jerusha. You
mustn't tell anybody but me.'

I telling no one ; but I watch and
wait, and I hab my revenge. I swear it
on my little Henri's head ! ' said Jerusha
solemnly.

E AN WHILE Maraquita, up on
the hill range, was fast recovering
her equanimity. With
Lizzie and the Doctor's bungalow out of
sight ; with her mother's assurance that
De Courcelles should be banished from
Beauregard before they returned to it ;
with remunerated health, and the prospect
of a marriage beyond her most ambitious
dreams, life seemed to stretch out like
one long vista of pleasure before her.
Hers was a shallow, frivolous nature, incapable
of looking beyond the present, or

of dwelling long upon the past. She was
a terrible coward though, and had she remained
on the plantation, and been subjected
to the entreaties and reproaches of
her lover, might have thrown up everything
to link her fate with his, and regretted
it bitterly for ever afterwards.
The marriage she was about to make with
Sir Russell Johnstonee was in reality far
better suited to her. So long as he was
attentive to her, and loaded her with
presents, she didn't mind his being middle-aged
and ugly, for she had very little
sentiment in her nature, and no idea of
love as it should be betwixt man and
woman. Her notion of a lover was of
some one who must be always paying her
compliments, or giving her pretty things,
or devising schemes for her enjoyment,
and in these particulars Sir Russell was
perfect. He displayed all the infatuation

and imbecility which usually attacks an
elderly man who finds himself in sudden
and unexpected possession of a beautiful
girl ; and Maraquita could never inhale too
much of the incense of flattery. She
bridled, and simpered, and blushed under
his adoring glances, as if she had never
been subjected to such an ordeal before ;
whilst Mrs Courtney would entreat ' dear
Sir Russell to spare her little girl such
a battery of admiration, or he would
frighten her back into her shell.' Quita
was beginning to give herself also all the
airs and graces of a Governor's wife, and
to hold her head above even her own
mother. The Government Bungalow was
charmingly commodious, and filled with
official servants, whom the little lady
ordered about as if they already belonged
to her ; and in fact she had already reconciled
herself so effectually to her new

position, that she had almost forgotten that
which was just past, and which she was
ready to try and believe had never existed.
She rode with the Governor, and walked
with him, and smiled at his compliments,
and even suffered him to embrace her,
without the least display of repugnance
or dislike. Not that the recollection of
Henri de Courcelles had entirely ceased
to trouble her. She thought of him often,
but with no warmer feeling than fear.
She would start, every now and then, in
the midst of her occupation, to remember
the threat he had made her, and to shiver
under the apprehension that he might
fulfil it. She would run at such times to
her mother, and implore her to find out if
De Courcelles had really left their service,
and if he had quitted San Diego, or
was lingering round Beauregard. She
declared that she never could summon

courage to be married until she knew that
there was no fear of her former lover way-king

her on her way to church, as he had
sworn to do, and perhaps injuring or
frightening her into a betrayal of the secret
between them. Mrs Courtney became so
anxious at last that her daughter's mind
should be set at rest, that she asked her
husband to join them on the hills for a few
days, thinking it would be safer to confer
with him on the subject by word of mouth,
than through a letter. Mr Courtney came
up as soon as his business would permit
him, and the first moment his wife had
him to herself, she broached the distasteful
subject.

What have you done about De Courcelles,
Mr Courtney } Have you given
him warning to leave us V

I have, my dear, for I feel very dissatisfied
concerning him. I sent for him

as soon as you had left home, as I told
you I should, and informed him that reports
had reached me concerning himself
and Maraquita that I could not pass over
without comment.'

Oh, Mr Courtney! I begged yow not to
use our dear girl's name.'

*Well, I couldn't tell him a lie, Nita,
and I really could invent no better excuse
for sending him away. So I thought
honesty would be, as usual, the best
policy

But what did he say to it ? ' demanded
Mrs Courtney breathlessly. ' Did he
deny the fact, or — or — tell any falsehoods
about it .? '

Not that I am aware of. He neither
admitted nor denied the truth of my
statement, but I could see from his
manner that it had hit home. So I told
him he could stay on the plantation on

one condition only, and that was that
he fulfilled his engagement with Lizzie
Fellows

I wish you hadn't,' replied his wife,
with a look of vexation. ' I don't want
him to stay, under any circumstances.
Things can never be the same again
between us after the avowal of his
impudent pretensions, and I can't see
how the matter would be improved by
his marrying Lizzie Fellows. In fact,
Mr Courtney, I think you should also
try and provide for Lizzie elsewhere,
for Quita can hardly notice her when
she is Lady Johnstonee, after what she
has done.'

Nita, I don't believe she has done
anything she need be ashamed of. I
have full faith in Lizzie, as I have told
you before, and I will not insult herby
a suspicion of wrong. However,

with regard to her marrying Henri de
Courcelles, you may set your mind at
rest, for she has refused him.'

Lizzie has refused to marry De Courcelles
? ' exclaimed Mrs Courtney, with
amazement.

Have I not said so ? De Courcelles
seemed quite ready to accede
to my proposal, and I gave him a week
to settle it in. Before a couple of days
were over our heads, however, he came
to tell me that it was of no use, and Miss
Fellows had refused to have anything
to do with him. I told him I couldn't
go back from my word, and that (under
the circumstances) I refused to retain
him on the plantation as an unmarried
man, so I would pay him a quarter's
salary, and he must clear out in a week.
But before I did so, I walked down
to Lizzie's bungalow, and had a very

plain conversation with her on the
subject.'

Mrs Courtney's complexion faded to a
dull yellow.

About the nurse-child ? Does she still
deny that it is hers ? '

Emphatically, and with such undeniable
sincerity, that I quite believe her. I
would stake my life that she has nothing
to do with that child except to take care
of it. She is a most injured woman, in
my opinion, and I urged her, for her own
sake as well as ours, to do as her father
(were he living) would command her, and
reveal the name of the mother of the
infant.'

Oh, Mr Courtney, how very wrong of
you to try and make Lizzie break her
oath ! Why, it would be perjury I ' cried
Mrs Courtney, virtuously indignant, and
trembling with anxiety, ' and I would

rather think she had fallen, than commit
such a crime. Surely she was not so
weak as to be persuaded to do such a
thing ? '

No ; she is adamant, and her lips are
closed like a vice. She refuses to say
anything upon the subject, excepting to
reiterate her former assertion that the
child is not hers. And she told me the
reason she had rejected Monsieur de
Courcelles' proposal is because he has
said the same thing of her as other people.'

'Well, of course. What can she expect
? ' said his wife, looking infinitely
relieved. 'It is very hard on the poor
girl, but she is bound to keep her oath ;
and people will talk. I have heard the
coolies speaking of it in the most confident
manner, as if they had not the
slightest doubt that she is the baby's
mother.'

I'd like to hear a coolie talking of her
affairs in my presence!' returned Mr
Courtney, clenching his fist. * He
wouldn't talk again in a hurry. If I
can't do anything else for the daughter
of my poor dead friend, I will protect
her. But there was something Lizzie
said that somewhat puzzled me, Nita.
In speaking of De Courcelles, she used
these terms, — '* He, who of all others
should have died before he accused me
of a crime of which he knew I was guiltless."
She emphasised the word ^' knew''
so deeply that it attracted my attention,
and I asked her how De Courcelles should
know of her innocence above other people.
But I could get nothing further out of
her. She blushed to her eyes, poor girl,
and was silent ; but I was sure she felt
she had gone too far. What can De
Courcelles know for certain, Nita? Is it

possible he can have anything to do
with this mysterious Httle stranger at the
bungalow ? '

Dear me, Mr Courtney, how can /
answer the question ? ' exclaimed his wife
pettishly. ' I don't see anything peculiar
in Lizzie's words. She meant, doubtless,
that being her betrothed husband, he
should have had more faith in her virtue ;
and so he should. But men judge women
by themselves, and so we seldom come off
scot-free. But are you going to get another
overseer ? That is the most important
thing to me. I can't think of
that De Courcelles' presumption with any
patience.'

Yes, yes, my dear ! it is all settled, and
he leaves us next week. I have already
engaged his successor — Mr Campbell, who
used to manage the Glendinning estates
before old Mr Houston died. He bears

an excellent character, and, I trust,
may prove all we require. He is noted
for his kindness to his coolies ; and I
am afraid De Courcelles has not raised
the character of Beauregard in that
respect.'

Oh, he is a wretch all round ! ' cried
Mrs Courtney ; ' and I shall not breathe
freely till he is gone. I hope he will leave
the island altogether.'

That I cannot tell you, for I have
nothing to do with his movements after
he quits the plantation. I think he is
sure to do so, however, as he is not a
favourite in San Diego, and would find
it difficult to get another situation here.
But let us talk of something more pleasant,
Nita. How is our Maraquita getting
on with the Governor ? Is it all plain
sailing ? '

'Plain sailing ? ' echoed Mrs Courtney.

VOL. II. p

What a term to apply to it. Why, they
positively adore each other, my dear, and
are never happy when apart. Sir Russell
is only too charming. He follows Quita
about everywhere, and waits on her like
a slave. He has given her the most
exquisite diamond pendant, and an Arab
horse that cost him two hundred pounds.
I am longing to see our darling installed
as the mistress of Government House.
Sir Russell means to go over to Trinidad
for the honeymoon. The Government
steamer will take them on board directly
after the wedding-breakfast; and they will
be absent for a month. The day after they
return to Government House, the marriage
will be celebrated by a splendid ball. He
is going to issue invitations to everybody
in the island — high and low. Isn't it
noble of Sir Russell .'^ But he says he
would ask the whole world, if he could,

to witness his triumph in the possession of
so lovely a bride.'

I don't Wonder at his enthusiasm,' exclaimed
the father, ' for he has got the
loveliest girl in the British possessions !
But what about her fal-lals, my dear ?
Can they be got ready in time ? '

Only just enough to go on with, Mr
Courtney; but Sir Russell is as impatient
as a boy of twenty, and refuses to wait a
day over the month. I have sent my
orders to England, as you desired me ;
but, of course, they can't be here in time.
The wedding-dress I can luckily supply.
Perhaps you have forgotten the exquisite
dress of Honiton lace you gave me when
the dear child was born. I am having it
made up over white satin ; and she could
wear nothing. Sir Russell says, more elegant
or appropriate. As the happy event
is taking place in the hot season, Mara-quite

can wear nothing but white muslin
and lace, which I shall have no trouble in
procuring for her ; and by the time the
rainy season sets in, her dresses will have
arrived from England. Really, Mr Courtney,
it seems as if the fates smiled upon
her, for nothing could be more fortunate
than everything has turned out.'

The planter acquiesced in his wife's
opinion, and the few days he spent on the
hills confirmed it as his own. No two
people could appear to be happier than
Quita and her fiancd. She suffered herself
to be loved, and caressed, and petted
to any extent ; and Sir Russell was always
ready to gratify her. Her proud father
thought she looked lovelier than ever,
under the consciousness of her coming
honours, and went back to Beauregard
fully satisfied that she was the most fortunate
o^irl in the world. But as the

time passed on, and the moment drew
near when the mother and daughter
must also quit the hills, Quita's agitation
became very apparent.

Mamma she would say, in a horrified
whisper, clinging fast to her mother's
hand, ' are you quite, quite sure he has
left Beauregard ? '

Quite sure, my dearest. Your father
sent him away a fortnight ago, and
Mr Campbell, the new overseer, is
living at the Oleander Bungalow in his
stead.'

But might he not be hiding somewhere
near? At Shanty Hill, or in the
Miners' Gulch ? There are public-houses
in both those places.'

Quita, my child, you must get over
this foolish fear. In the first place, your
father is quite convinced that De Courcelles
has left San Diego, as there is no

vacant situation in the island for which
he could apply ; and in the second, even
if he were in the neighbourhood he would
not dare to speak to you, far less to try
and injure you.'

Ah, mamma, you don't know Henri !
You should have seen his eyes when he
said he would stab me at the altar. He
is terrible when he is in a rage. And I
feel convinced he will keep his word. He
will hang about Beauregard till my ,
and then he will hide in the
church and shoot me, and I shall die
in my wedding - dress, bespattered with
blood ! ' replied Quita, relapsing into tears
at the awful picture she had conjured up
in her imagination.

Quita, you will make yourself ill if
you go on like this!' said Mrs Courtney,
with grave solicitude. ' You are really
too silly to be reasoned with. Do

you forget you are going to be the
Governor's wife ? You are not going
to marry a nobody, but a man high
in position and power, and no one
will dare to assail you either by word
or deed. The church in which you
are married will be lined with the
military ; and if you are nervous,
Sir Russell will have a special guard
of honour to protect you. But don't
let him guess at any of your nervous
fears, for Heaven's sake, or he may
get curious to learn the cause of them.
Rely on me, Quita, that all will be
well.'

But there is another thing, mamma,'
said the girl, after a pause. ' I am horribly
afraid that old Jessica knows too
much. One night when — when — I had
been at the bungalow, I found her awake
and watching for my return. And two

or three times she has muttered hints
that I could not misunderstand.'

Oh, Quita, Quita, what trouble you
have got yourself into. It seems as if
we should never surmount the difficulties
in our path. I shall know no peace until
you are Lady Johnstonee.'

Nor I either, mamma ! But can't we
send Jessica away too ? I don't intend
to take her to Government House, and
you will have no use for her when I am
gone.'

My dear, I am afraid it would be
dangerous to dismiss her. She would
guess the reason, and these negroes are
very revengeful. They will serve you
to the death, so long as you make them
your friends ; but once turn round on
them, and their malice knows no bounds.
Jessica has been with you since your
birth, and to send her adrift just as you

are going to be married, would be to set
her tongue going like a mill-wheel. No,
Quita, you must pursue a more politic
course ! I think we made a mistake in
not bringing Jessica up to the hills with
us. Had I known what you tell me
now, I would not have consented to
her being left behind ; but you must
take her some presents when we return,
and do all in your power to conciliate
her. Don't encourage any familiarity,
nor appear to understand any hints she
may give you, but keep her in a good
temper, my dear child, until after the
fourteenth, whatever you do.'

Acting on her mother's advice, Mara-quite
took a gaily - coloured shawl and
a necklace of gilt beads to Jessica when
she returned to the White House, and
made the old nurse's heart repent that
she had been led into repeating any

scandal about i her missy. But the departure
of the overseer was too important
an event to be passed over in
silence, and Maraquita was doomed to
hear a repetition of what was thought
concerning it in the coolie quarters.

Missy seen de new overseer ? ' Jessica
commenced, the first moment they
were left alone. ' He berry fine man,
broader den Massa Courcelles, and
plenty more colour in face ; nice hair
too — same colour as de carrots — and a
soft voice, kinder like a woman's.'

No, Jessica, I haven't seen him yet ;
but papa has asked him to dine with us
this evening.'

Ah, Missy won't like him same as
Massa Courcelles, for sure, — but Massa
Campbell good man for all dat, and
Massa Courcelles berry bad man — all de
niggers dance when he go 'way, and

Jerusha she throw mud after him, and
frighten his horse so he stand right upon
his two legs.'

Was he hurt ? ' cried Quita suddenly.

However frivolous a woman may be,
she cannot quite lose all interest, at a
moment's notice, in the man she has
loved.

Oh, no, missy ! Massa Courcelles
same like part of horse. He nebber
thrown ; only, he swear and curse plenty
at Jerusha.'

'Who is Jerusha?' asked Quita, betrayed
by curiosity into forgetting her
studied reticence ; ' and why should she
throw dirt at Monsieur de Courcelles ? '

Ah, missy not knowing. Jerusha only
a poor coolie, but all de niggers would
throw dirt at Massa Courcelles if they
dared. But he been berry bad man to
poor Jerusha — same as he been to

my missy added Jessica, in a lower
tone.

Maraquita turned deathly white.

How has he hurt Jerusha ? ' she asked,
in spite of herself.

He's left her with a baby, Missy
Quita — a nice baby, too, most as white
as himself, with his eyes and hair ; but
Jerusha feel bad about it, 'cause he's
treated her berry cruel, and whipt them
both with de cowhide.'

Maraquita turned her head aside, and
burst into tears. She would have given
worlds that the old nurse should not
have witnessed her emotion, but she
could not restrain it. How true it is
that the love of most women is founded
on vanity, and that even If they do not
want a man themselves, they cannot
bear that any one else should have him.
Besides, this degrading liaison with a

coolie girl had taken place at the very
time that Henri de Courcelles had been
swearing eternal love to herself. Quita
did indeed feel at that moment that she
had parted with a woman's best possession
for nothing. She had never been
so terribly humiliated before. Jessica
was not slow to take advantage of her
young mistress's weakness.

Don't cry, missy,' she said ; ' dat man
not worth one tear from my missy's bright
eyes. He false and cruel, and got bad
heart. Missy forget all about dis trouble
when she marry de Governor. And
Missy Liz will keep de secret, nebber
fear, and old Jessica too. Nobody tell
muffin, de Governor nebber know, and
den everything go right.'

But this allusion roused the instinctive
fear in Maraquita's bosom. She forgot
her mother's caution, and the folly of

resenting the old nurse's hints. She forgot
everything, except the awful fear of
exposure, and in her alarm she played
her worst card, and turned round upon
Jessica like a fury.

What do you mean by speaking tome
like that ? ' she panted. ' How dare
you pretend to think that I cried because
I was in trouble for any one but the poor
coolie girl ? I know I am a fool to feel
such things. Any one is a fool who
wastes a tear on you coloured people,
for you are all false, and mischief-making,
and scandalous ; but it is too bad that
you should speak as though I were crying
for myself What trouble could I be
in ? I have everything I want, and ina
few days I shall marry the Governor,
and none of you will dare to say a word
against me ; and if you do, Sir Russell
will have you whipped, and put in prison,

and you may He and die there, for aught
I care.'

It was a foolish and childish rage in
which she indulged, but Quita was not
much raised above the coloured people
she professed to scorn, either in intellect
or education. Yet it was sufficient to
excite the desire for revenge in the
object of her wrath.

Missy have me whipped and put in
prison ? ' she shrieked ; ' me — who ahab
nursed her in my bosom, ever since
she was a tiny baby ? Oh, no, Missy
Quita, you nebber mean dat ! I will
tell Massa Courtney, and de Governor,
everything before dat. I tell dem all
I know. I clare de character of poor
Missy Liz, down at de Doctor's bungalow,
and I tell whose child dat is what she
nurse day and night.'

Oh, Jessica ! ' cried Maraquita, frightened

beyond expression, as she threw
herself on her knees before the
old negress, ' don't say that. I was
beside myself. I didn't stop to weigh
my words. I know you are good and
faithful, and will be true to me. and
keep my terrible secret, for you wouldn't
ruin your poor little missy who loves
you; would you, Jessica?'

But the old negress was not to be so
easily conciliated. She looked very surly,
even whilst Maraquita's white arms were
wreathed about her withered neck.

Missy Quita, you berry ungrateful gal,'
she murmured presently. ' How many
nights I sit up and watch and wait, while
you flirting wit dat overseer, fear your
modern or some one come and find you
out ? Den when you taken bad, ole Jess
know your trouble all de time, and nebber
speak one word. But now you going

to be grand rich lady, you want to
kick old Jessica out, and forget all
she done for you. But I won't be
kicked out, Missy Quita. You must
take me to Government House, and
give me good wages, or I won't keep
your secret any longer ; and it isn't
no good saying I'm ungrateful, missy,
'cause you were ungrateful first, and you
knows it

Maraquita saw the terrible mistake she
had made, when it was too late. Why
had she not remembered her mother's
advice to conciliate the old negress
until the marriage was an accomplished
fact ? Then Mrs Courtney would have
devised some plan to keep her quiet.
But now there was but one course open
to her, — to promise to give Jessica everything
she demanded, however unreasonable.


VOL. II. Q

Why, of course, Nurse,' she answered,
with assumed playfulness. ' Did you think
I was going to leave my old darker
behind ? What should I do without
you ? You shall come to Government
House as soon as I am settled there,
and dress me in the mornings, as you
have always been used to do ; and
perhaps some day you may nurse my
little children as you nursed me. Will
that content you, Jessica?' she added,
with trembling lips that ill-concealed her
anxiety.

And missy will raise my wages ? '
demanded the negress ; ' Governor's lady
give better wages than planter's daughter,
and I hab worked for eighteen
long years in your service, Missy
Quita.'

Yes, yes ! You shall have any wages
you like, Jessica. I shall tell Sir Russell

what a good servant you have been
to me, and he will be proud to reward
you. But perhaps you would rather
have a pension,' said Quita wistfully,
*or a lump sum of money, that will
enable you to go back to your own
country, and live there.'

No, missy ; I rather live and die with
you. You seem like my own child tome,
and San Diego like my country. I
no want go way ; and if missy good tome,
I keep her secrets always, and no
one shall hear ole Jess tell de truth
about her.'

Maraquita felt this was only a compromise,
but she had no alternative but
to accept it. There was a hard, stony
look in old Jessica's eyes that alarmed
her, and made her doubt her promises
of fidelity. She was not slow to perceive,
either, the mercenary motive of

her demand for higher wages, but she
could not afford to comment on it. She
had put herself in the power of another
woman — the most terrible bondage the
sex is ever subjected to — and she saw
no way to loosen her chains, except by
perfect acquiescence. But she loathed
the old negress, even while she forced
herself to caress her. The affection of
her whole life seemed to have faded
beneath the ordeal to which it had been
subjected. Jessica was no longer the
kind and faithful nurse who had tended
her from her infancy, and to whom she
had run in every dilemma, but a hard
and grasping creditor, who had possession
of that which might ruin her
life, and demanded her very blood in
ransom. However, there seemed no way
but one out of the scrape, and so Mara-quite
promised to do all and everything

that the negress might require, and tried
to soothe her ruffled feelings with soft
words and caresses.

But she did not feel sure that she
had succeeded, even though Jessica paid
her some honied compliments in return,
and lay down in her bed that
night longing more than ever that
the wedding - day had come and
gone.

All went smoothly, however. No one
saw or heard anything further of Henri de
Courcelles, nor was Quita even annoyed
by the mention of his name. He seemed
to have totally disappeared from Beauregard,
and Mr Courtney fully believed
that he had left the island. The old
nurse made no further disagreeable
allusions to the past, and appeared to
be as devoted to her young mistress as
she had ever been, so that Maraquita

regained her lightness of heart, and
turned her attention entirely to the
brilliant prospects before her. The fourteenth
was close at hand, and the preparations
for the Governor's wedding,
which was to take place in the Fort
church, were on a scale of magnificence
never before attempted in San Diego.
The church was to be embowered in
flowers ; the military were to line the
road leading to it; half the gentry in the
island were to be engaged in singing a
choral service ; and a splendid barouche,
drawn by four horses, and preceded by
a guard of honour, was to convey the
newly - married couple back to Beauregard.


Here, naturally, all were in a flutter.
Mrs Courtney, never a good housekeeper,
was nearly out of her mind over the
wedding-breakfast and the completion of

Maraquita's dress, and was thankful to
delegate the issuing of the invitations to
her husband and her daughter. Mr
Courtney made out the Hst of names,
whilst Maraquita wrote the invitations ina
very irregular hand on gold - edged
paper. Half - way down the list she
came upon the name of Miss Fellows.


Lizzie ? ' she exclaimed, with rather
rashly expressed astonishment

Of course ! why not ? ' returned her
father quickly.

Well, because, although we don't
believe the reports about her, papa,
other people do, and some of the ladies
of San Diego might object to meet
her.'

Mr Courtney consigned the ladies of
San Diego to a warmer region, but
held to his determination.

There shall be no festivity held in
my house to which Lizzie Fellows is
not invited,' he answered sternly ; ' and
the fact that she is still welcomed here,
will be the best denial of these infamous
calumnies against her. I should
be ashamed of you, my daughter, if you
consented to her name being omitted
from our guests. The poor girl has
suffered enough from the death of her
father, and the rascality of that scoundrel
De Courcelles, to say nothing of these
cruel rumours, without our turning our
backs upon her.'

The mention of De Courcelles' name
was enough to stop Maraquita's tongue,
and she wrote the invitation without
further comment. Only, as both she
and her mother anticipated, Lizzie's
reply was in the negative. She made
her recent loss the excuse for not joining

in any gaiety ; but Maraquita and
Mrs Courtney knew that after the insults
they had hurled at her, she would
never place her foot voluntarily again
within the walls of the White House.

END OF VOL. II.

VOL. II.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

OF Shame

By p(E/U)THo(^ Of

My Sister THE Actress

^0-s^S'" " :: :: :: :: 1^::::,-

Fop twelve : " 1 16 3 8 o

lAsiMrni*

OF THE

U N IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS


L475c



i^i>-v

'^ ^¥^

A CROWN OF SHAME,

VOL. III. a

A NO V E L,

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT,

AUTHOR OF

love's conflict,' 'my sister the actress,'

ETC. etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1888.

wall rights reservedness

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CONTENTS.

Page

CHAPTER I I

CHAPTER n 19

CHAPTER HI 57

CHAPTER IV 94

CHAPTER V 129

CHAPTER VI 165

CHAPTER VII 201

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/crownofshamenove03lean

Nov ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of
ARMY SOCIETY ; or, Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange

Winter. Author of 'Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also picture
boards, 2S.

A ho now ready, in cloth gilt, 35. 6^. each.
GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By John

Strange Winter. Also picture boards, 2s.
IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart.

THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of ' The Wooing

O't.'
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron.
A DEVOUT LOVER. By the same Author.

TWILIGHT TALES. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Illustrated.
SHE CAME BETWEEN. By Mrs Alexander Eraser.
THE CRUSADE OF * THE EXCELSIOR.' By Bret Harte.
A REAL GOOD THING. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
CURB AND SNAFFLE. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
DREAM FACES. By the Hon. Mrs Fetherstonhaugh.
A SIEGE BABY, By John Strange Winter.
MONA'S CHOICE. By Mrs Alexander. Author of ' The Wooing O't.'

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

CHAPTER I.

lOSA, the yellow girl, was sauntering
up and down the avenue
of tulip trees which formed
an approach of a quarter of a mile to
the plantation of Beauregard, in a very
discontented and sullen humour. She
was holding Maraquita's baby in her
arms, and she was dressed in her very
best. Her cotton gown was of the

VOL. III. A

deepest rose colour ; on her feet she
wore white stockings and prunella shoes
with sandals ; her long black curls — in
which she prided herself there was no
trace of negro crispness — were surmounted
by a handkerchief of bright
orange silk, which Miss Lizzie had given
her as a reward for her kindness to
her little charge. But what was the
good of it all ? thought Rosa ; what was
the use of wearing her gilt earrings
and her string of coral beads, when
there was no one to see them — not even
a coolie boy left on the plantation ? For
this was a general holiday. Not a hand
was to work, either in the coffee or sugar
fields, for it was Miss Maraquita's ,
and all the coloured people
were off to the Fort Church to witness
the ceremony. All, that is to say,
except poor Rosa. But Miss Lizzie

had refused to give her leave. She
had promised the yellow girl that she
would take charge of the baby in the
afternoon, and let her join the big
dinner that was to be given to all the
hands at sunset, and the dance that
would follow it, but she would not consent
to let her go to the church. Lizzie
had her own reasons for the denial —
Rosa might have been sure that she
would never have been unjust or unkind
to any one — but she did not choose to
tell them to her servant.

She thought it would scarcely be delicate
to let Rosa, who had the care of
the poor outcast baby, and was like
a second mother to it, form one of the
gaping crowd to see Maraquita married
to the Governor. It was something
too terrible to Lizzie to think that her
adopted sister could do this thing, and

she decided that herself and all who had
any part to bear in her sinful secret were
much better out of the way. So she
had condemned Rosa to remain in the
plantation with the infant, who was growing
quite a big child, and the yellow
girl was proportionately discontented.

There was a certain young Creole
called Juan who had been paying her
great attention lately, and whom she
entertained serious thoughts of marrying.
The silk handkerchief, the earrings,
and the coral beads had all been donned
for Juan's benefit, and now he was off
to the Fort with some other girl maybe
with Chloe, or Celeste, or Marie —
and she had to walk up and down this
stupid avenue with the baby in her
arms. Rosa could have shaken the
baby for keeping her from the much-coveted
spectacle.

As she was thinking over her disappointment,
Judy — Mammy Lila's granddaughter
— walked from behind a tall
bush, and confronted her.

Hill, Rosa ! ' she cried. ' Is dat
Missy Liz's baby ? My ! how dat grown ;
she's pretty heavy now, I guess.'

Judy was an ugly, cunning-looking
young negress, of perhaps fifteen — tall and
lanky and large-boned, with a propensity
for lying and thieving and everything that
was wrote.

Heavy ? ' echoed Rosa ; ' you may say
dat. She breaks my arm pretty well
carrying her all day long. But ain't you
going to the wedding, Judy ? It's most
time to be off. Don't I wish Fse going
too.'

Why ain't you going, Rosa, gal ?
Uncle More say dat will be de finest
sight ember seen in San Diego. And you

got your Sunday gown on too ! Why you
not go ?'

'Cause Missy Liz say no ; and I nebber
go back to her if I disobey ! But you're
going, Judy, sure ? '

No, Rosa! I'se got bad head dis morning,'
replied Judy, with a cunning look,
and her lean hand to her woolly hair, * and
I'se can't stand long walk. I'se better
stay here till de dinner-bell sound.'

Dere now ! ' cried Rosa, with vexation.
'Ain't dat a muddle? Why, I'd gib my
best earrings to be able to go. I shall
nebber forgive myself dat I not see Miss
Quita's wedding.'

You can see de carriages comines down
de drive ; and Miss Quita in her white
dress — all lace,' said Judy.

Dat ain't de ting ! But what you low
niggers know about grand folk's ways .'^
I want to be one of de church company.

and hear de wedding ceremony,' replied
Rosa, mouthing the long word.

So you can, den, Rosa. Tes' gib de
chile to me, and I'll hold it till you come
back. Don't take no time to marry, you
know ; jest a few words, and it's allover
; and I won't leave dis place while
you're gone.'

Is dat a fac', Judy ? ' exclaimed the
yellow girl, with a brightening face.
Will you hold the baby whiles I gone ?
Den I'll keep my word, and you shall
hab de earrings, for you're the berry
pusson as I wanted to meet — dat's so ; '
and placing the infant in Judy's arms,
she disengaged the gilt trinkets from her
ears, and laid them in her hand. 'Judy,
you're a real good gal, and you won't stir
from dis avenue till I come back ; and if
you sees Miss Lizzie a-coming, you'll bolt
in bushes like rattlesnake ? Is dat so .'* '

Dat is so, Rosa. I'll keep her safe,
nebber fear. I likes nursing de babies,
and my head ain't good for muffin else
dis morning.'

I'll hurry back quick as I can directly
dat's over ! ' cried Rosa, as she darted
down the tulip tree avenue, in order to
reach the Fort before the carriages from
Beauregard.

As soon as she was out of sight, Judy
gave one look around to make sure she
was unobserved, and then dived with
the child into the thick bushes that
skirted the drive on either side. She
had not gone far before she was met
by Henri de Courcelles. He was dressed
much as usual, but he was looking very
pale and dissipated, and there was a
dark look about his eyes that seemed
as though he had been drinking hard,
or going without his natural rest. Ashe

encountered Judy, he accosted her
roughly.

So you've got the child ? '

Oh, yes, Massa Courcelles, and wit
berry little trouble. Rosa ses' mad to
go to wedding. She jump wit joy when
I tell her I'd hold de baby, and gib me
her best earrings into de bargain ; but I
promise I be back here when she return
from church, so massa won't be long
after her, eh ? '

You shall be back as soon as ever
it is possible : I promise you so much ;
but you must come with me to San
Diego. You don't suppose I'm going
to carry ^/la^ ? '

Massa please,' replied the coolie,
shrugging her shoulders ; ' all same tome.
I can tell Rosa anything, — dat I'se
too bad to walk, and took de baby to
my hut, eh ? '

I've no doubt you are equal to inventing
any number of lies to suit your
purpose ; but now you must follow me.'

De Courcelles led the way as he spoke by
many a devious path through the thicket,
until they reached the outer boundary
of the plantation, where he hustled Judy
and the child into a close carriage which
he had in waiting, and ordered the driver
to take them to the Fort.

Meanwhile, Maraquita, dressed in her
bridal robes of lace and orange blossoms,
and with a costly veil covering her to the
ground, stepped into the carriage which
was to convey her to church. The
vehicle had been re-painted for the
auspicious occasion, and re-lined with a
delicate silver grey brocade. The horses
were caparisoned in silver harness, with
large cockades of white ribbon at their
ears, and the coloured coachman and

footman in brand new liveries wore
large bouquets of white flowers in their
button-holes. Four or five other vehicles
followed that in which sat the bride between
her adoring parents, and contained
relations of the family, and intimate
friends who were staying in the house.
It was a trying ordeal for Mr and
Mrs Courtney, who were about to part
with the one blossom of their marriage-tree
; but though the father was nervous
and agitated, and the mother could not
prevent the tears rising to her eyes,
the brilliant position their daughter had.
attained for herself was the greatest
consideration in their minds, and outbalanced
any pain they may have felt
at the impending separation. Quita
herself felt overwhelmed at the knowledge
of her good fortune. She had so
dreaded lest something might occur to

mar her prospects, that she was almost
hysterical at the Idea that they were
about to be consummated. She turned
from one parent to the other in a
glow of expectation and triumph, which
flushed her usually pale cheeks, and lent
a fire to her eye, that made her truly
beautiful. As the carriage approached
the Fort, in which the English Church
was situated, they found the road lined
with eager faces, both white and coloured,
and a shout of welcome and congratulation
went up as soon as they appeared.
Sir Russell Johnstonee was in the church
porch waiting to receive his bride, and
it would have been difficult to find a
more lovely creature than stepped from
the carriage and stood before him,
trembling (as it appeared) with modesty
and maiden shame. The church was
crowded, every pew was filled with

friends and acquaintances carrying nosegays,
the aisles were lined with carries
grinning from ear to ear, the pillars
and rails were wreathed with flowers and
ferns. Never was there a prettier wedding,
nor a more auspicious one. As
Maraquita was led to the altar by her
father and mother, the organist commenced
to play, and the choir, who
had been practising for the last month,
sang a marriage hymn. Quita felt, for
the time being, as if she were about towed
the man of her choice, and had
no regrets to spare for a mistaken past.
The flowers, the melody, the congratulatory
looks by which she was surrounded,
appealed to her senses, until she was
ready to believe that she was worthy
of them. Henri de Courcelles had
no place whatever in her thoughts that
morning. Out of sight, was truly out

of mind with her shallow soul, and
she remembered nothing but that she
was about to become Lady Johnstonee,
and all the unmarried girls in San
Diego were envying her good luck.
She went through the service as calmly
as possible. Mrs Courtney sobbed
like a school-girl, her husband blew his
nose and changed his feet every minute,
and Sir Russell was visibly agitated.
Only the beautiful young bride made
her responses in an unfaltering voice,
and held up her face as soon as the
ceremony was over, to receive her
bridegroom's kiss, as quietly as if she
had been married for ten years. It was
over then, and there was nothing more
to do but to sign her name in the
register, and go forth to take her place
in a world which seemed strewn with
roses, and in which no inconvenient

memories should rise up to trouble
her. The organ pealed forth the
wedding march. Sir Russell extended
his arm for her acceptance, and Mara-multa
realised that at last she really
was his wife, and no one could deprive
her of the position he had bestowed
upon her. She beamed with
smiles of satisfaction as she walked
down the aisle on her husband's arm,
returning the bows on either side,
and treading on the roses, and lilies,
and myrtle strewn by the children in
her path. Sir Russell's carriage, with
its four horses and outriders, and its
stately guard of honour, was waiting
to receive her, and take her back to
her fathers house for breakfast, and
her heart swelled with pride as she
caught sight of it, beyond the crowd
that clustered round the church door

and steps, and threatened to impede
her way. But she had hardly placed
her foot on the red carpet that had
been laid down for her accommodation,
when her eye fell on a group that
riveted her to the spot, and almost
made her breath stop, — a group that
seemed to rise up as it were from the
very earth itself, like a Nemesis, to rob
her of her joy. Maraquita stared at
it as if she were turning to stone, while
her face grew deadly pale, and her
limbs tottered under her. Her first
impulse had been to scream, but the
strong instinct of self-preservation inherent
in every nature prevented her,
and the effort to restrain herself resulted
in her falling suddenly from Sir
Russell's support, and sinking to the
ground in a dead faint. A dozen
people were round her in a moment.

Some declared it must be the heat —
others, the excitement and fatigue —
only one person amongst them all, and
that was her mother, Mrs Courtney,
discovered the real cause of her
daughter's emotion. She had come
upon the scene in time to see the
dark handsome face of Henri de Courcelles
glaring like that of an avenging
angel above the crowd, whilst in his
arms he held up high on view his
infant. She had cowered herself beneath
the sight — no wonder it had
affected her poor Maraquita. In a
commanding voice she had desired the
church peons to disperse the crowd,
and when the bride was sufficiently recovered
to be taken to her carriage,
no one was left to molest her. One
anxious despairing look passed between
her mother and herself, but a hurried

VOL. III. B

whisper from Mrs Courtney somewhat
reassured her, and by the time they
reached Beauregard, Maraquita was to
all appearances herself again. But only
to the view of strangers, for long after
she had left San Diego, and the Government
steamer was conveying Sir Russell
and Lady Johnstonee to a sister island
to spend their honeymoon, she sat
with her large dark eyes staring out
into the star-bespangled night, in which
she saw nothing but the picture of a
man's face, full of hate and frenzy and
revenge, — of a man who held a little
infant in his arms. And as she thought
of it. Lady Johnstonee felt the tears
roll down her face (as they should not
have rolled down the face of a newly-wedded
woman), in memory of a past
which she hated and loved, and longed-for
and dreaded, all at the same time.

UGH NORRIS had not been
;^ slow to avail himself of Lizzie's

^ . . • . 1 TT

permission to visit her. He
had knocked about a good deal in the
world, and he had seen all sorts and
conditions of women, but he had never
met any one to interest him, and hold
his sympathies, like the Doctor's daughter.
It was not only that she was firm and
sweet in temper, and strong in mind, and
clever and energetic — there was a more
binding tie between them than that.
They thought together ; and if men and

women would realise that kindred tastes
and ideas form the only lasting bond
between friends, there would be fewer
unhappy marriages than there are.
There is a great deal of talk heard on
occasions about the happiness of surrendering
one's opinions in deference to
those of the person one loves, but that
notion is only believed in by the men
who wish to be master, and ride roughshod
over their household gods. To
surrender is to give up one's mental
and moral liberty, and there may be
duty in bondage, but there can be
no pleasure. Marriage should be the
cementing of a friendship between the
sexes, and it is the only safe light by
which to regard it. There should be
plenty of giving in it, but no giving up !
And Captain N orris felt that if lizzie
Fellows could learn to regard him ashe

did her, there would be very few jars
in their domestic manage. He had been
detained in San Diesfo much looser than
he had anticipated. Just as he got his
cargo on board, and was ready to start,
a serious damage had been discovered
in the Trevelyan, and he had been compelled
to send her into dock for repairs.
Although the delay meant a considerable
loss of money to him, Captain Norris
did not regret it. He did not feel easy,
in common with many of the residents,
with regard to the safety of the island ;
and to leave Lizzie in possible danger,
surrounded by a horde of mutinous
coolies, and without the possibility of
obtaining news of her for months together,
would have been a sore trial to
him. He would have taken her with
him gladly as his wife, or as an ordinary
passenger, but he knew her character

too well to propose it. Had she been
affianced to him, and danger threatened
her benefactor and his family, she would
have died with them, sooner than desert
them in the time of uncertainty. And
uncertainty seemed to prevail in San
Diego. Grave muttering were heard
on every side of averted rebellions and
suppressed mutinies, and the planters
knew that it needed but the necessary
boldness on the part of one set of
hands to rise, to set the whole necrro
population aflame with the lust for rapine
and murder. Sir Russell Johnstonee was
not a favourite amongst them, for he
disliked the coloured people, and had
passed some very harsh sentences on
the prisoners brought up to him for
judgment, and his name was seldom
mentioned without an execration attached
to it. The hands on Beauregard had

not shown discontent beyond the ordinary
grumbling and small impertinences
common amongst the coolies ; but Hugh
Norris knew the character of the people
well, and he distrusted them. He remembered
how in former mutinies, both
in the East and West Indies, the actual
fight for the supremacy had been preceded
for a long time by half-suppressed
murmurs and complaints, like the muttering
of the elements before a tempest,
and that, when the storm broke, it
came like a clap of thunder, suddenly
and unexpectedly, and overwhelmed its
victims before they were hardly aware
of the danger they incurred. So he
was glad than otherwise to be detained
in San Diego, though what he heard
and saw there did not tend to reassure
him. He was present at Maraquita's
wedding, being a friend both of Sir

Russell Johnstonee and the Courtneys ;
but he declined the invitation to the
breakfast, both because he disliked such
festivities, and that Lizzie Fellows, he
knew, would not be there. But on the
evening of the same day he strolled
into her bungalow, and seated himself
without ceremony like an old
friend.

So, Lizzie,' he commenced, ' you were
not present at the grand wedding this
morning ? '

No. I asked them to excuse me,
Captain N orris. My dear father's recent
death renders it very unfit that I should
mix in any gaiety.'

But your adopted sister's marriage,
Lizzie! Surely that was an occasion on
which you might have relaxed your strict
seclusion ? '

He had marked the coolness which had

separated Lizzie of late from Mrs Courtney
and her daughter, and he had his
own suspicions on the subject ; but he
had not presumed to put them into
words.

They didn't think so. They were
quite satisfied to let me follow my own
wishes replied the girl quietly.

And how is your nurse-child ? Thriving?'


Lizzie's eyes sparkled.

Beautifully, thank you. She is growing
such a dear little creature, and knows
me as well as possible.'

Have you had her baptised ? '

How strange you should ask me that
question,' remarked Lizzie thoughtfully,
looking up from her work. * It is the
very thing I was about to consult you
on ! How often we seem to have the
same ideas at the same moment ! I think

you must be a wizard, and read my
thoughts ! '

It is because we are so much in
sympathy with each other, \J\z7a^. But
what about the mysterious baby ? Have
you decided on the name you will call
her?'

No ; I have never troubled my head
about it. Any name will do.'

Oh, poor little lady ! let us give
her a pretty one whilst we are about it.
Why not call her after yourself ? '

Lizzie shrank from the idea.

Oh, no ! She has nothing to do
with me. Please suggest something
else.'

Poor mite ! she seems to have nothings
to do with anyone. She is a little blot
upon the universe. But she is God's
own child. Suppose we call her after
His mother.'

'Mary! Yes, I like that idea. What
is your mother's name, Captain N orris ? '

The same. I was thinking partly of
her when I spoke.*

Then I shall like the name doubly
for her sake. I am sure she must be a
good woman, to have borne such a son
as you are.'

I am afraid that is not much recommendation
for her, Lizzie,' returned Hugh
Norris, laughing. * But she is a good
woman — the best woman I have ever
known — for all that. And how she would
love you ! How I wish you knew her :
you would get on so well together.'

/ How can you tell that ? '

Because you have the same tastes.
My mother is quite a doctor in her way;
and all the country people believe in her
immensely. Only she is a herbalist, and
does not approve of strong drugs. Since

my father died, and her sons have gone
out into the world, she has Heed alone
in a cottage in the sweetest spot of Kent
you have ever seen ; and she is beloved
of the whole country-side. But I wish
there was some one to live with her, now
she is getting old. She has never had a
daughter, my dear old mother! How she
would love and cherish one ! '

How many brothers have you ? ' asked
Lizzie, trying to run away from the
dangerous subject.

Two, George and Frederick. George
is in the Indian Army, and has been out
in Bengal for the last five years ; and
Fred is in business in London. He goes
down to see mother every now and then ;
but they are only flying visits, and she
must feel very lonely at times.'

'Yes, very! How often do you see
her?'

Every few months, as a rule ; but my
time in England is necessarily short.
If I had a wife — ' said Captain N orris,
and there stopped.

'Well,' remarked Lizzie encouragingly,
' what then ? '

I was going to say that (with her
permission, of course) I shouldn't be
entirely selfish : I should leave her behind
me some voyages, that she might keep
my mother company. It wouldn't be for
long, perhaps, for I hope to get work
on shore some day — I shouldn't like to
spend all my life roving about like this,
without any settled home.'

But it must be glorious to sail about
all over the world, and see so many
new countries ! ' cried Lizzie, with kindling
eyes.'

It is, whilst a man is young and independent,
and has no ties to pull at

his heart-strings. You would enjoy it,
Lizzie, I am sure. Your free and energetic
spirit would be quite in accord
with the unfettered elements, and you
would glory in seeing them circumvented
(for mastered they can never be) by the
ingenuity or prevision of men.'

Yes, I should like it, I am sure. It
is the sort of life that would carry one
out of oneself, and make one almost forget
how much falsehood and wickedness
and ingratitude hold their place amongst
men. To be out on the open sea from
morning to night, and to know for
certain that no one who has injured or
disappointed you can follow you there,
and that you are alone with God and
your own thoughts — it must be a kind
of little heaven in itself, if — if — '

If what, Lizzie ? ' demanded Hugh
N orris eagerly.

If one went with the person one
loved,' she replied, with a slight increase
of colour.

Let us talk of the baby — of little
Mary,' he said impatiently. ' When
shall we have her christened ? '

Any day, if you will be her godfather,
and share the responsibility of her with
me.'

'Willingly. As she is to bear my
mother's name, I consider it incumbent
on me to do so. But, Lizzie, have you
taken my advice about this child } Have
you appealed to her parents to lift the
burden they have laid upon you, by
at least a partial confession of their
error ? '

I have,' she answered, in a low voice.

And they refused } '

I only saw the mother, and she
denied all knowledge of her child. The

the — other parent I could not speak

to.'

You know the names of both of
them then.'

She bowed her head In silence.

Lizzie, I think I have guessed your
secret, or at least part of it. The father
of this infant is Henri de Courcelles.'

What should make you say that,
Captain N orris ? ' she exclaimed, in a tone
of alarm.

The hesitation in your voice when you
alluded to him ; but I have had my suspicions
of it before now. And shall I tell
you the name of the mother who has left
you to bear the burden of her shameful
secret ? '

No, no, Captain N orris,' cried Lizzie,
springing from her chair ; ' you must not
say it ! I will not hear it ! You are mistaken
! It is not true ! Oh, my dear

friend,' she continued, laying her hand
upon his arm, ' think — think what you are
doing. The honour of a whole family is
involved in your discovery. Be silent.
Keep the secret sacred, as I do, for God's
sake.'

And what about the honour of the
woman I love ? ' he asked tenderly, as he
looked into her face ; ' am I not to think
ofthat.^'

If you love her,' replied Lizzie, blushing,
you must know that her honour is safe.
But for the other — so young — so weak — '

So unprincipled — so false, you mean ! '
said Hugh Norris indignantly. 'Well, it
will come home to her some day, see if it
does not.'

But never through my means,' said
Lizzie.

No, not through you, my angel, but
God will take care of His own. You will

VOL. III. c

not always live under this cloud. You

would leave It behind you tomorrow, if

you would but consent to be my honoured

wife

Not while it hangs over me,' she
whispered.

And afterwards — '

Ah, Captain Norris, do not ask me !
You are my best and truest friend, and
the man who would make me happier than
any one else in the world. I quite believe
that. I say it after calm deliberation, and
a careful investigation of your character.
But I am not in a position to marry anyone,
and I never may be. Leave it to the
future. If I am ever free, and you are
still of the same mind, I will answer the
question you ask me to-day.*

And I will live on that promise, Lizzie,'
replied Hugh Norris, 'for I feel the time
of your release is not far off. If you

persist in sacrificing yourself for the sake
of your oath, your friends are not bound to
see you do it, without making an effort in
your behalf. But I have something to say
to you before I go. Will you be very
careful of yourself, for my sake ? '

In what way?' she asked, with open
eyes. ' The fever is nearly passed ; and if
it had not done so, I am fever-proof.'

There is a worse pestilence abroad than
the fever, Lizzie, — a lust for murder, and
rapine, and insubordination. The negroes
are ripe for rebellion, and if there should
be an insurrection, there may be fire and
bloodshed.'

Oh, they will never hurt me ! ' replied
Lizzie, with a confident smile.

My dear, when the thirst for blood
gets possession of a mob, infuriated by a
sense of wrong, they do not stay to distinguish
friends from foes. I feel uneasy

that you should stay in this bungalow
alone, Lizzie, with no better protection
than Rosa. It is not safe. Do you bar
your doors and windows at night ? '

bar my doors and windows ? ' repeated
Lizzie, with a smile. ' Why, Captain
Norris, they stand open night and day ;
and I don't believe there is a fastening
to any one of them. The coolies would
indeed think I had crone out of mv mind,
if they saw me bolting myself in from fear
of them.'

But I don't like it,' said Hugh Norris,
with a sigh. ' I have witnessed several
mutinies, Lizzie ; and if there should bea
grudge borne against you by one person
only, it may be sufficient to incense
the entire mob. Suppose they were to
fire your bungalow, and destroy all your
property ? '

Captain Norris, do you really think it

is so likely to occur ? ' demanded Lizzie,
struck by the portentous gravity of her
friend.

I do indeed, or I should not caution
you.'

Then they may injure the White
House, or do some harm to Mr and
Mrs Courtney ! ' she exclaimed in alarm.
Should you not warn skein ? They
are of far more importance than myself.'


*I won't allow that; but Mr Courtney,
at least, is aware of the danger. The
planters have held a meeting on the subject,
with a view to inquiring into the
coolies' fancied wrongs, but not, I understand,
with any satisfactory results. In
fact, they can't make out what it is they
do want, and I don't think the carries
know themselves. Only the demons of
distrust and discontent are stalking abroad,

and it behoves every white man to be

extra careful.'

Suppose they were to hurt Mara-quite,'
suggested Lizzie, with a shudder.
She is not a favourite amongst them,
poor child, I know.'

And will be none the more for having
married the Governor ; for the coloured
population have taken a strong dislike to
Sir Russell Johnstonee, as the discovered
plots against Government House plainly
show. However, she will have every
protection that the military forces can
give her, and you have none. It is of
you that I am thinking, hlzzle. I wish

I could persuade you to leave this bungalow,
and go and stay in the Fort till the
danger is over.'

Oh, dear no ! That is quite impossible.
What, run away from my patients,
and leave them to die, for fear lest some

of the men amongst whom I have grownup
might turn against me ? Captain
Norris, you cannot think what you are
asking me. Indeed, I have no fear —
not the slightest. These cooHes love me
I know they do — and would die forme
sooner than harm a hair of my
head.'

Perhaps so, Lizzie ; though I have not
much faith in any coloured people. But
you have the coolies of other plantations
to guard against. They do not confine
their attacks to their employers' property.
If the hands on Miners' Gulch or Sans
Souci, or any other estate, were to rise,
they might make a raid on Beauregard.
Now, do you understand the danger you
may be in ? '

Yes,' replied Lizzie thoughtfully ; ' I
had not considered that. I will ask Mr
Courtney if old Peter or William Hall

may sleep at the bungalow for the future,
though I do not think they will be much
protection. But I am not afraid, — indeed
I am not'

You are the most courageous woman
I have ever met,' replied Captain Norris.
I don't believe you are afraid of anything.'


Except of injuring those who have
been good to me,' she said, somewhat
timidly. * Captain Norris, there is something
on my mind that I feel bound to
mention to you. My name is not Fellows,
and I don't know what my real
name is.'

Are you not the Doctor's daughter,
then ? ' he demanded, in surprise.

Oh, yes, and though it may astonish
you hereafter to remember I said so, I
would not give up the knowledge that I
am his daughter for all the world. Poor

father ! He was so unhappy, so unfortunate,
so erring. His soul was purified
like that of an angel by the suffering he
passed through.'

Pardon me, Lizzie, but did I hear
aright when you said your father was
erring ? '

Yes, Captain N orris, erring beyond
the generality of men. I should not have
mentioned it to you, except for the kind
sentiments you have expressed towards
me this evening, and which make me
feel that, before they go further, you have
a right to know all. The week before
he died, my father made a communication
to me which I had never heard before,
and which he forbade me to repeat
during his lifetime. His death has, of
course, released me from that duty, and
I am sure that he would have wished
you, of all men, to be acquainted with

the truth. But I am afraid that it will
shock you terribly, Captain N orris, to
hear that my poor father was a criminal
in hiding from the law, and, except for
the goodness of Mr Courtney, he would
have suffered the penalty of transportation.
This was the secret of the great
friendship between them, and why my
father changed his name, to prevent his
retreat from being discovered.'

And yet Mr Courtney remained his
friend to his life's end. How good a
man your father must have been, Lizzie
(but for this youthful error), that his
conduct had no power to separate him
from the person who knew and loved
him best.'

Ah, that is how / look at it ! ' cried
Lizzie, seizing his hand, and bursting
into tears ; * but I hardly expected to
hear so generous a judgment from your

lips. If suffering, and repentance, and a
desire to make amendment, can atone
for a man's sin, I believe my poor father
fully expiated his. He was an exile from
all his relations, and lived under an assumed
name, with no one but myself fora
companion, and his profession for occupation.
I am not aware if I sprung
from the gutter, or came of a decent
family. All I know is that I am called
Elizabeth Fellows, and that, although
guiltless myself, I am not a fit wife for
any honest or honourable man.'

You shall not speak to me like that,'
exclaimed Hugh Norris indignantly, ' for
it is not true ! You are fit, in your own
sweet self, to mate with the best man
that ever lived ; and I consider you as
far above me as the stars are above the
earth. But I think you should ascertain
your real name, and who your relations

are. Your father is gone, Lizzie. The
discovery can never hurt him now, and
there is no saying how much benefit
it may prove to you. Cannot Mr Courtney
give you the necessary information
? '

I believe he can, but I have shrunk
from asking him. This terrible scandal
about me — '

Don't let that prevent you. Be your
own brave self, and meet the calumny
as it deserves. Take my advice, Lizzie,
and demand an explanation from Mr
Courtney as soon as possible. Life is
uncertain, you know, and he might die
before you have ascertained the truth
about yourself. Then you might never
hear it.'

He will be surprised to find me
asking questions about which I have
shown no curiosity for so many years.

He will wonder what can have put it
into my head.'

Hugh N orris drew nearer to her, and
seized her hand.

Say you are engaged to be married
to me, and that you consider I have
a right to know everything concerning
yourself.'

^ But that would not be true.'

Make it true, then. It lies with you
to do so.'

No, Captain Norris,' she replied
gently, withdrawing her hand from his.
I cannot — at least just yet. Give mea
little time to recover myself. Remember
that but a few weeks back I considered
myself betrothed to Monsieur de
Courcelles.'

*And you love him still,' he answered
roughly, in his disappointment.

No, no, I do not ! I despise him for

his falsehood and treachery, and for his
despicable conduct in trying to evade the
consequences of his own fault, at the expense
of the character of the woman he
once professed to love. If there were
not another man in all the world, I would
never place myself again under the yoke of
Henri de Courcelles. But to engage myself
so soon to you — it would be hardly decent

Have your own way then,' replied
Hugh Norris, as he rose from his seat, and
took his cap in his hand. ' I have asked
you for the third time, and failed. I shall
begin to disbelieve in my good luck. It
evidently doesn't lie in an uneven number.'

There are such slight intervals between
your asking,' said Lizzie, laughing.
But she ceased to laugh when she
found herself alone.

The honest, disinterested love of Hugh
Norris was beginning to work its way

into her heart, and heal the wounds
made by the other's defalcation. She
would have liked to call him back and
tell him that she would follow the dictates
of her feelings, and give him his answer
at once, without any regard to the dictum
of the world ; but womanly pride prevented
her doing so. She was terribly
afraid, also, of being deceived a second
time. The scalded dog fears cold water,
and though her sense told her that Hugh
N orris's character and disposition were
utterly different from those of Henri de
Courcelles, she dreaded making another
mistake, and finding out, when too late,
that they were unsuited to each other.
His summary departure had the effect,
however, of causing her a sleepless night,
and as soon as the sun was up the following
morning, she found her way to
Mr Courtney's office.

Well, Lizzie,' said the planter kindly,
and so you wouldn't join our festivities
yesterday. It was a grand sight, though,
and you would have enjoyed it ; and I
missed you several times during the
breakfast, I can tell you.'

You have always been too kind tome,
Mr Courtney ; but you know my
reasons for not being with you. No one
wishes Quita health and happiness more
than I do, and every sort of prosperity ;
but I was better at home. Besides, I
don't think I could have come, under
any circumstances,' continued Lizzie, smiling,
' for do you know we had two new
arrivals on the plantation yesterday ?
Chloe, the mulatto, and Aunt Jane, William
Hall's wife, both had daughters
during the forenoon, and both are determined
to call them " Maraquita," in
honour of the wedding. I did laugh so

to see the two black woolly-headed little
Marquises ; but the proud mothers saw
nothing incongruous in the idea.'

Naturally,' replied Mr Courtney, joining
in the smile. 'And what is the
plantation health report to-day ? '

Very good ! I have only two cases
of fever left, and they are both convalescent.
The negro boy, Dickey,
broke his arm whilst climbing trees to
see the fireworks last night — but ita
simple fracture ; and I have a few
children down with infantile cholera, but
nothing dangerous.'

That's well. And can I do anything
for you, Lizzie ? Any orders wanted for
medicines, or other necessaries ? '

'No, sir ; I have everything I require.
But I came up this morning chiefly
to ask you a favour, Mr Courtney. I
want you to tell me everything you

VOL. III. D

may know concerning my father and his
family

The planter pushed his chair back, and
regarded her with surprise.

About your father's family?' he echoed.
But why should you imagine that I know
more than yourself ? '

Oh, you need attempt no concealment
with me, sir. I appreciate the generosity
of your motive, but my father himself has
rendered it unnecessary. A few days
before he was taken from us, he related
to me the history of his life, and the
reason why he lived a pensioner on your
goodness at Beauregard, instead of taking
his place in the world and society,
like other men. Also that he passed
under an assumed name, from fear
of the law ; but he did not tell me
what my real name is, and I wish to
know.'

But to what purpose, Lizzie ? What
good will it do ? '

I have not even thought of that,
sir ; but if it brought evil in its train, I
should still ask for the information. For
since my father told me that Fellows is
not my own name, I seem to have lost
my individuality, and to be some one else.
When I hear it spoken, I don't feel as if
I had the right to answer ; and in fact,
Mr Courtney, I beg of you to satisfy my
curiosity in this particular.'

Well, Lizzie, you are a woman, and
if you have made up your mind on this
subject, you shall be gratified ; but I
would ask you to think again first. I
don't believe the information will make
you happier. What is the use of belonging
to a family who will not own you ?
Your poor father's relations all turned
against him, and will do the same by his

daughter. It was that they might never
have the power to insult him again, that
he took the name of Fellows.'

So he told me, sir ; and also of
the crime he committed against you, and
of the generosity with which you forgave
it. I feel (and I told him so)
that after that, my life and all I hold
dearest in the world should be at your
disposal ; and I will sink my personality
in the future, as I have done in the
past, if you wish me to do so.'

'No, no ! my dear girl, I don't consider
I have any right to dictate to
you on the subject ; and since you
desire to know your name, I will tell
it you. You are Elizabeth Ruthin, the
grand-daughter of General Sir William
and Lady Ruthin of Aberdare in Scotland.
Your dear father's name was
Herbert Ruthin. He was the second

son, the eldest, I believe, Is in the
army. He has already told you (you
say) of the sad event which brought
us together. He was my dearest friend
in youth, and to the day of his death ;
but he was extravagant and thoughtless,
and hardly thought of the gravity of
the act he was committing.'

That is your kind way of putting
it,' said Lizzie. ' My father did not
exonerate himself after that fashion, sir.
He saw his fault in its true light. But
my mother's name — what was that ? '

Alice Stevens. She was the daughter
of a clergyman, and a very sweet
woman, I believe ; but she died so
early, that I saw but little of her.
Have you any more questions to ask
me, Lizzie ? '

Only, have you any papers to prove
what you tell me, Mr Courtney ? '

What a practical young woman you
are. Yes, I have. I loved your dear
father with almost a romantic attachment,
and I have kept all the letters
that passed between us as young men,
that is, when he was practically living
at home on Sir William Ruthin's estate
of Aberdare, but going backward and
forward to pursue his studies at Edinburgh.
His frequent mention of his
home life, and every one connected with
it, is sufficient proof of his identity.'

And may I have those letters, sir ? '

Certainly, if you wish it ; and, now
I come to think of it, they should be
in your possession, in case of anything
happening unexpectedly to me.'

Mr Courtney rose as he spoke, and
unlocking an iron safe, placed a packet
of letters, endorsed ' Correspondence with
my friend H. Ruthin,' in her hand.

And now, Lizzie, what will you do
with them ? ' he added. ' Shall you go
post-haste to England by the next
steamer, and lay claim to your fathers
property ? '

Oh, sir, don't laugh at me ! Remember
that a felon's daughter has no
rights.'

Lizzie, you shall not use that term
of your late father in my presence ! '

'It is what he called himself, sir, —
what, doubtless, his people call him to
this day, if ever they mention his name.
Are my grand - parents living, Mr
Courtney ? '

I believe so, my dear, and a very
nice couple they were, though I have
heard this trouble was an awful blow
to their pride. Scotch pride too. There's
nothing like it. But Lady Ruthin loved
her son Herbert dearly in the olden

days. I wonder if she ever mourns
for him now ? '

Can time wear out a mother's love ? '
said Lizzie. * And my poor father was
so loveable and affectionate. I cannot
believe sometimes that he was capable
of so base a sin as ingratitude.'

Don't believe it, my dear ! It is allover
and past now. Think only of
him as one of God's regenerated children.
And if he erred in that respect, his
mantle has not fallen on his daughter,
for you have repaid any kindnesses
we may have shown you, twofold.'

I have tried to do so,' replied Lizzie,
in a faltering voice, as, with the packet
of letters in her hand, she passed quickly
from the office on her way home.

FEW days later, Hugh
Norris rushed unexpectedly
into Lizzie's presence.
I have come to wish you good-bye ! '
he exclaimed, in a voice of distress.
I have received orders this morning
which compel me to sail at once ;
and as the Trevelyan! s repairs are
complete, I have no possible excuse for
disobedience.'

Lizzie changed colour slightly as she
heard the news, but she answered
quietly, —

And I am sure that, under any circumstances,
you would make none. Have
you not often told me that a sailor's
first duty is towards his ship ? '

Ah, yes ; that is all very well in
theory,' he said, with a rueful look,
but you cannot know what I feel at
leaving you alone, Lizzie, at this anxious

time.'

I shall be safe enough, my dear
friend, so have no fears for me. When
do you sail?'

With the tide this evening, and
hardly know how I shall get through
all my work by that time. I didn't
expect to get off for another week.'

Then I mustn't detain you, Captain
N orris ; though it was good of you to
think of me at the last.'

Of whom else should I think 1 I
shall not be away long this time, Lizzie.

I only go to England and back. A
couple of months may see me here
again. What can I do for you there ? '

Nothing, thanks. I have no commissions
for you.'

Have you spoken to Mr Courtney
yet on the subject of your family ? '

Lizzie started.

Oh, yes ; and that reminds me that
I have some letters I want to show
you. Wait a moment Captain Norris,
whilst I fetch them — '

Missy Liz ! Missy Liz ! ' piped
a shrill little voice at the open
door.

What is it, Pete ? ' she asked of a
negro boy, whose dusky face was anxiously
peering in upon them.

Oh, Missy Liz, please come quick
to Mammy Chloe's baby! That's kinder
sick ; taken dreadful, with its eyes turned

up so, and its body quite stiff like a
piece of wood ! '

Convulsions ! ' exclaimed Lizzie, as she
threw the packet of letters she had just
taken from her desk across the table,
and put her hat upon her head. * Captain
N orris, I rust go. Read those whilst
I am gone.'

But I cannot stay till you come
back, Lizzie. Each moment is precious
to me. Give me five minutes more.'

I dare not. This is a new - born
infant, and a matter of life and death.
God bless you, and good-bye ! '

He had only time to wring her hand,
when she darted from the house. He
watched her figure running swiftly towards
the negroes' quarters, and then
returned to the shaded apartment, with
a deep sigh. What interest had he
then in the packet of letters she had

left him to peruse ? hizz'iQ was gone.
He should not see her again, perhaps
for months, and the world seemed to
be a blank without her. In the hope
of her speedy return, he sat down fora
few minutes more, and mechanically
drew the letters towards him. But as
his eye fell upon the written words his
countenance changed, and his expression
became one of the deepest interest.
He hastily scanned through the letters,
making sundry notes as he did so, and
then, with a long low whistle, he tied
the envelopes together again, and, laying
them upon Lizzie's desk, walked
to the window to watch for some token
of her return. None came. The Indian
sun was blazing in all its splendour
on the tropical leaves and flowers, the
pathway to the coolies' huts was one
long line of white dust glittering like

golden sand ; but not a sound could
be heard but the far - off hum of the
workers in the cotton fields, not a living
creature to be seen but Rosa in the
shaded verandah, with Maraquita's child
slumbering on her knees, and an aged
negro, long past work, who was warming
his stiffened limbs in the sunshine.
Hugh Norris watched impatiently for a
few minutes from the open door, and
then, with a rapid glance at his watch,
and a deep sigh, he unwillingly prepared
to leave the bungalow.

Be a good girl to your mistress, Rosa,'
he said, as he passed the yellow girl ; * take
great care of her and the baby, and I'll
bring you a beautiful string of beads when
I come back from England.'

'Tank you, sar,' replied Rosa. * I'll be
berry good all time you away ; and I'd like
a nice shawl too, sar.'

Well, you're not bashful, Rosa,' replied
Hugh Norris, laughing ; * but you shall
have the shawl too, if you'll keep your
promise. And if there should be any
trouble on the plantation — you know what
I mean — take Missy Lizzie up to the White
House at once, and don't mind what she
says about staying here.'

I understand, sar ; but nebber you fear.
De niggers on dis plantation too good for
dat. They hub Massa and Missus Courtney
; and as for Missy Liz, they die for her
dat's ses' so.'

Captain Norris gave a sigh of relief.

I hope so, Rosa, and it makes me
happier to hear you say it ; but still I am
not easy. But take this and buy yourself
a new gown ; and remember, when you
wear it, that you have promised me to be
faithful.'

He thrust a five-dollar note into her

hand as he spoke, and with one yearning
look in the direction of the negro quarters,
walked rapidly away towards the town.
Rosa rolled her eyes with delight at the
feel of the five-dollar note.

He gone 'coon too,' she thought, with a
sapient air ; ' car's another what Missy Liz
have done for. And she's so quiet all de
time. Dat's what beats me. 'Pears as if
she didn't care if they was *' gone " or not.
Wall, if dey all gib me five-dollar notes,
I wish there was a thousand of them.'

Meanwhile, Lizzie was kneeling down
beside Mammy Chloe's straw mattress,
putting the poor little black baby into hot
baths, and watching by it as tenderly as if
it had been a princess of the blood royal,
until the attack of convulsions had ceased,
and it was sleeping peacefully on its
mother's breast again.

Dar now, dat's ses' wonderful ! ' exclaimed

the crowd of dusky mortals, who
had anxiously watched her proceedings,
dat baby ses' dying', 'pears as though
death was in its face, and its body cold
and stiff already, and Missy Liz comes
'long and touches it, and it's as well as
ever in half an hour. Missy Liz, you
too clever ! You like de Lord, Who
touches with little finger, and everybody
well again. You ses' white angel. Missy
Liz — no mistake about dat.'

My dear friends, you make too much
of my poor services for you. You could
all do nearly as much for yourselves, if
you would only let me teach you. Mammy
Chloe made her baby sick. She says she
gave it some sweet potato yesterday.'

Only tiny leetel bit, Missy Liz, out ob
my own mouth ! ' cried the mother.

However little it was, Chloe, it was too
much for a baby of three days old. How

VOL. III. E

often must I tell you to give your little
infants nothing but the breast ? Your baby
is safe again now, but if you feed her with
potatoes, and rice, and bread, she will have
another fit, and next time I may be able
to do nothing for her.'

Hereupon rose a chorus of dissentient
voices.

Oh, Missy Liz, how you saying dat ?
You can cure everything. Missy Liz.
You mended Dicky's arm, and cured old
Jake's rheumatiz, and fringed de life
back to Claire, when she fell into de
water, and was dead.'

No, no ! ' disclaimed Lizzie, laughing,
she wasn't dead, Betsy. I can't go as
far as to bring the dead to life again.'

Believe you could, Missy Liz, if you
tried, for you're ses' wonderful all round ;
and de niggers nebber had a better friend
dat's so.'

Ay, Massa Courcelles say dat last
night, Auntie Bell. He say Massa Courtney
and de other planters dam bad trash,
and better out ob de way ; but nobody
must hurt Missy Liz, because she's de
niggers' friend, and hub 'em ses' like
herself.'

Monsieur de Courcelles I ' echoed
hlzz'iQ, thinking the negress had made
some mistake. ' How could he have
said that last night ? He is not in San
Diego.'

Massa Courcelles not in San Diego ? '
repeated the shrill voice of Betsy. ' Oh,
Missy Liz, who tell you dat ar lie ?
Massa Courcelles nebber leave de plantation
yet. He's living up at old Josh's
shanty, t'other side of de avenue, and he
comes along of evenings, and talks to us
all of our troubles.'

Lizzie's brow flushed darkly. What

could be the meaning of Henri de Courcelles
hiding himself on Beauregard ? For
what reason was he hanging about the
plantation, and mixing familiarly with the
people whom he professed to abhor ?

And what troubles have you that you
can confide to a gentleman's ears, Betsy ? '
she demanded reprovingly. * Monsieur
de Courcelles was not so kind to you
whilst he was your overseer, that you
should expect to find a friend in him
now. There is some deeper meaning, I
am afraid, in his pretended interest in
you, than that of making your life more
comfortable.'

You may well say that, Miss Lizzie!'
cried Jerusha, who was standing in the
crowd, with her baby In her arms. ' Dat
man nebber sorry for nobody but himself.
What he care if our work is hard,
or our backs ache wit de sun, or our

huts is dark, or de food common ? Did
he care when my back was bowed wit
pain, and my head wit shame, and I
couldn't hardly stand upon my legs ?
Didn't he strike me and my poor beetle
boy, and say, " D — n you ! Go hell ! I
make you work like a dog " ? '

Hush, hush, Jerusha ! ' exclaimed
Lizzie, as she rose and placed her hand
kindly on the shoulder of the excited
coolie. ' I know you have had your
troubles, my poor girl. I know Monsieur
de Courcelles has wronged you terribly,
but you must try to be patient, and forgive,
as — as — we ail have to do sometimes.'


But Jerusha shook the compassionate
touch off her.

No, Missy Liz,' she said loudly, * I
cant forgive. If he had given me one
kind word, I'se have worked for him to

my last day, and been glad only to see
him well and happy ; but he's bad all
through, to de very core. He wrong
more dan me. Ah, I know plenty tings
people not thinking ! and now he come
and 'cite des niggers to revenge themselves,
and send all de planters out of
de island, and keep de fields for dere
own use. Dat his way of "paying out"
somebody. Missy Liz. But / know him
and his dark ways, and if des people
rise 'gainst de planters, Massa Courcelles
shall be de first to go, if I kill him with
my own hand.

Rise ! ' cried Lizzie indignantly.
Surely, after all the kindness they
have experienced from Mr and Mrs
Courtney, there is no one on this plantation
so wicked as to dream of rising.
What should they do it for ? What
more can they desire than they already

possess ? There are no hands on the
island more looked after and cared for
than those on Beauregard.'

I dunno dat,' chimed in a discontented
voice. * San Souci niggers gets
a tot of rum every night, and a quarter
of a pound more meat than we do.'

Who said that ? ' exclaimed Lizzie
quickly, turning round. ' Ah, it was
you, Aunt Sally ! That's a nice grateful
thing to say, when you were down
with fever three weeks this year,
and received your wages all the same,
though you couldn't do a stroke of
work. That's the best return you can
make, is it ? And you know why the
San Souci hands get extra rations well
enough, — because the plantation is so
near the swamp, and so unhealthy inconsequence,
that they are half their
time down with fever and ague. You

ought to be ashamed of yourself, to
set such a bad example to the others.'

I only repeating what Massa Courcelles
say,' replied Aunt Sally sulkily.

Then Monsieur de Courcelles should
be ashamed of himself. I have no
hesitation in saying it,' continued Lizzie
warmly. ' I have been brought up
amongst you all since I was a little
child, and I am a witness to the kind
and indulgent treatment you have received
from your employers. Mr Courtney
has never spared money or trouble
to make his hands comfortable and
happy, and if you have ever had any
cause of complaint, it has been against
this very man who is inciting you now
to feel rebellious and ungrateful ! '

De overseer only act on de Massa's
orders,' grumbled Aunt Sally again.

It is not true ! ' cried Lizzie indignantly.

' Mr Courtney never ordered
Monsieur de Courcelles to do anything
that was cruel or unjust. He left a
great deal of power in his hands, because
he believed him to be a goodman,
and worthy of his trust ; but he
found out his mistake, and that is why
he has been sent away

Missy Liz speaks God's truth,' exclaimed
Jerusha, 'and you niggers know
she do ! What hasn't dat man done tous
? Didn't he starve old Jakes for
three days 'cause he not clean horse
proper ? and didn't he strike Aunt Hannah
'cross de face with his whip, and make
de 'spells come out ? Didn't he take
me up to his bungalow, and tell me I
lib dere all my life, and den kick me
out like a dog 'cause I got a poor leetel
baby ? Haven't you niggers said, times
out of mind, you'd like to kill him for

all he done, and that it was only 'cause
Missy Liz like him dat he wasn't dead
long ago ? If you says " No " now, den
you're all liars, and a lot of trash dat
is afraid to stick to your own words.'

'Jerusha is right,' said Lizzie. 'You
were all afraid of Monsieur de Courcelles,
and spoke against him, whilst he was your
overseer ; but now that he has no authority
over you, you allow his specious tongue to
lead your minds astray. My dear friends,
be warned in time. Monsieur de Courcelles
has no right to be on this plantation
at all, and he only comes here for a bad
purpose. You mustn't listen to him. I
am sorry to say it before you, but he is
not a good man. I loved him once very
dearly,' continued Lizzie, with a great
effort, and her cheeks dyed crimson, ' and
believed him to be all that was upright
and honourable, but I found out I was

wrong, as you will find out you are wrong,
when it may be too late. Do you know
that I have but to go to Mr Courtney,
and inform him of the mutinous ideas yon
are openly expressing, to have you put
into prison ? And the new Governor is
very strict, as you may have heard, and
makes an example of all rebels. He is
determined to crush the feeling of mutiny
out of San Diego, whatever it may cost.'

Perhaps Gubnor get crushed himself,'
suggested Betsy sullenly.

Don't talk nonsense ! ' cried Lizzie
sharply. ' What could a handful of coloured
people do against the military forces ?
You would all be shot down and killed,
before you knew where you were.'

She spoke boldly and decisively, but her
heart was sinking all the while. If the
negro population of the island rose en
inasse^ the slaughter might be terrible

before peace could be restored amongst
them. She thought of her benefactors
the Courtneys, of poor heedless Maraquita
and the kind-hearted Governor, — a little
too of herself, and shuddered. And Henri
de Courcelles also. Would he not be
overwhelmed b}^ the storm he was taking
such pains to raise ? At all risks, she said
to herself, she would see him, and warn
him of the danger he ran in turning
against his late employers.

'Which of you has been listening to
Monsieur de Courcelles' inflammatory
talk ? ' she asked presently, as she looked
round upon the women.

All of us,' answered Aunt Sally. ' He
come down to our huts of evenings, and
sit dere, and tell us how Massa Courtney
treat him fuss den nigger, and how we're
free coloured people, and should stan' no
nonsense.'

He is worse than I thought him,' said
Lizzie. ' He must stop it at once, or I
shall inform Mr Courtney, and have him
turned off the premises

Kill him, Missy Liz, kill him I' hissed
Jerusha, between her clenched teeth ; ' dat
is de only way to crush de rattlesnake.'

Don't speak like that, Jerusha. It is
wicked, and you do not mean it.'

But the Indian earl did mean it all the

same.

Where did you say that Monsieur de
Courcelles was staying, Betsy ? ' inquired
Lizzie, a few moments after.

At Uncle Josh's shanty, t'other side of
avenue. He mayn't be dere now, Missy
Liz, but he sleeps dere ob nights.'

If de door would fasten, I'd set fire
to dat rotten shanty, before anode moon,'
remarked Jerusha.

Well, I must leave you now,' said the

Doctor's daughter, with a deep sigh ; * but
remember what I say. The next time I
hear any talk Hke this of to-day, I shall
go straight to Mr Courtney, and ask him
to dismiss the whole lot of you. Then
you will starve without any work to do,
and will be sorry you left your comfortable
huts, and kind employers, at the instigation
of a villain.'

Massa Courtney starve too when he
got no coolies to pick cotton and rice for
him,' muttered some one in the crowd.

Lizzie saw plainly that the disaffection
had spread too effectually to be quenched
by her single arguments, and so she left
them, and, wrapped in thought, walked
leisurely away from the coolie quarters.
Her first step, she felt, must be to see
Henri de Courcelles, and with that intention
she directed her feet towards
Uncle Josh's shanty, which stood somewhat

apart from the rest. The sun was
now high in the heavens, and no European
was abroad who could rest at home.
Lizzie's broad - brimmed hat and white
umbrella sheltered her sufficiently in the
shady plantation, but she would not have
ventured out, except at the call of duty,
at so late an hour in the morning, and so
she firmly calculated on finding Monsieur
de Courcelles within the hut. She was
not disappointed. Old Uncle Josh, who
was an aged negro almost past work, and
only kept to do light jobs about the
garden and stables, came to the door
with much caution to answer Lizzie's
knock for admittance, and was about to
declare that he knew nothing of Monsieur
de Courcelles, when a voice from within
called out to him to admit the lady, and
not make a d — d fool of himself. So
Lizzie passed in, and found herself face to

face with the man she had believed to be
hundreds of miles away.

Monsieur she commenced hurriedly,
I should not be here, except th I
have something of the utmost importance
to say to you. You must send
this man away, so that he may not hear us.'

Go up to the plantation, Uncle Josh,
or anywhere you like, and don't come
back for an hour,' said De Courcelles, ina
voice of authority ; and the old negro
nodded in acquiescence, and shambled off.

Are you sure he is safe ? ' demanded
Lizzie, as the man disappeared.

Safe as death ! I have him under
my thumb,' was the confident reply.
And now, what can you have to say
to me, Lizzie ? After our last parting,
I hardly expected you would seek me out
of your own accord.'

Neither should I have done so, except

that the welfare of those I love
more than myself is at stake. Monsieur,
why are you still on the plantation of
Beauregard ? '

I think that is my business sooner
than yours.'

Indeed it is my business, — the business
of every one who regards the Courtneys
as benefactors. Your presence here can
be for no good purpose. It spells ruin
and devastation for them. By your false
arguments you are inciting these ignorant
coloured people to rebel; you are
making them discontented — not to say
bloodthirsty; and the upshot of your
evil counsel will be a mutiny, that will
involve their own downfall with those of
their employers, and, perhaps, lead to
murder and rapine.'

*And what do I care if it does.? It
will be no more than they deserve.'

VOL. III.

Oh, Henri, you cannot think what
you are saying ! Surely you would never
be so wicked ! What have the Courtneyss
done to make you so revengeful ?
They were always the kindest of patrons
to you, until this unhappy business occurred
with Maraquita. And even to
the last they were both just and generous
How can you find it in your heart
to injure them ? '

They are Maraquita's parents he answered
gloomily.

And would you avenge her falsehood
her broken faith — upon them ? Monsieur,
that is not like yourself! It is
unworthy of any one calling himself a
man.'

What right had they to turn me off
Beauregard, then ? It was only done to
shield her, because they suspect the
truth, and are afraid I might prove

a dangerous rival. She marries the
Governor of San Diego, and is lapped
in luxury and comfort, whilst / (who
am morally her husband) am sent adrift,
like a rudderless boat, to toss anywhere
on the sea of life. But I'll be even
with her yet, and her bald-headed old
ape of a partner too.'

Henri, you must not speak like that,'
said Lizzie firmly. ' I feel for your disappointment
— indeed I do ; it must bea
bitterly hard one ; but to try and revenge
yourself in this manner is a
cowardly and wicked thing. The feeling
of disaffection is rife enough in the
island, without your adding to it. I beg
I pray of you to leave the plantation,
and not return. You have no right
here, and if you remain, I shall consider
it my duty to inform Mr Courtney; and
you know how painful it would be forme

to say anything to him against you.
Henri, for the sake of old times, do as
I ask you.'

You are a good woman, Lizzie — I
have always maintained that — and, If you
wish it, I will go. But, mind you, my
departure will not stop the rising mutiny,
any more than my remaining here
hatched it into life. The native population
is ripe for rebellion, and it is only
now a question of weeks — perhaps days
before they burst into open revolt. I
am glad I have seen you, to warn you
against it. The coolies will not harm
you, I am sure — they love and reverence
you too much — but they may frighten
you, and I should wish to prevent even
that. But as for the rest — well ! I shall
not be satisfied till I see the White
House and Government House in ashes,
and their owners weltering in their blood ! *

The expression of his face was so
murderous as he spoke, that Lizzie
fairly screamed, —

Oh, Henri, Henri, surely you are
not in earnest ! You would never countenance
nor encourage so horrible an
idea ! You would save those who have
been good to you — whom you once believed
you loved — at the risk of your
own life ! Tell me it is the truth, for
I will never leave you till you acknowledge
it.'

Henri de Courcelles seized her two
hands in a grip of iron, and drew her
towards him, until their faces nearly
touched each other.

Lizzie Fellows,' he exclaimed roughly,
to hide his emotion, ' if I could have
gone on loving you, if that heartless
jade had not come between us with
her mock innocence and her fatal beauty

and blinded my eyes to your superior
virtues, I should have been a happier
and better man to-day. But nov. I
know it is too late. You have ceased
to love me, and I shall never again
be able to lay any claim to your
hand.'

But I have not ceased to care
if you are a good man or a bad
one, Henri,' she answered, through
her tears ; ' and I entreat you now,
by your memory of the past, todo
what I ask you, and leave Beauregard.'


I will, because you ask me ; but, as
I have already told you, it will not
make the difference you imagine. I
could no more stay the progress of
this mutiny now, than I could single-handed
quench the fire of a burning
city. It has gone too far for that.

Besides, I have no desire to do so.
My heart thirsts for revenge, and I
shall only quit Beauregard to join
another set of rebels, and perhaps a
more dangerous one.'

Henri, cannot I persuade you to
give up that madness also ? '

No, Lizzie, the time is past. Mara-quite's
falsehood has made me reckless,
and I only live now to one
end, — to see her punished as she
deserves.'

Leave her to Heaven, Henri. Do
you think her infidelity will not be
its own punishment ? How many
nights will she lie awake, poor child,
wanting your love, wanting mine, which
used, at one time, to make all her
happiness ? How often will her heart
yearn — for Quita has a heart, Henri,
though it is choked up with vanity and

love of self — for the days she spent
with us, — for the poor little innocent
she has left behind her ? Ah, neither
you nor I can measure the pain which
remorse will bring her ! '

Don't you believe it. You judge
her by yourself, and your sex is the
only likeness between you. She is all
bad, Lizzie, false from head to foot,
and the sooner the world is rid of her,
the better.'

And are you the one who should
be her judge .'^' replied Lizzie mournfully
; * can you bring clean hands into
court, Henri, with which to condemn
her ? No, I am not alluding to myself.
It was not your fault, perhaps, if you
found upon a closer acquaintance that
you could not love me as you once
imagined ; but what of Jerusha — the
poor little coolie girl with whom you

were carrying on a pretension of affection
at the same time that you were
deceiving Maraquita ? How can you
find it in your heart to contemplate
revenge on her for an error of which
you were guilty yourself?'

You women don't understand these
things, Lizzie. No one but a little fool
like Jerusha would have believed for a
moment that I was in earnest, or that
such an irregular business could possibly
last more than a few months.'

Yet Jerusha vows to have her revenge
on you, as warmly as you do to
have yours on Maraquita.'

At this piece of intelligence, Henri
de Courcelles changed colour.

If that is the case, your advice has
not come too soon. These coolies are
the very devil to stick to an idea if they
once get it in their head, and I shall

wake up some night, perhaps, to find
Miss Jerusha's fingers at my throat, if
I don't clear out. Curse the little jade !
She's been more trouble to me than she's
worth.'

And may be the occasion of more
yet,' replied Lizzie, who saw the way,
by taking advantage of his fear, to make
him hold to his purpose. ' She is dead
set against you, Henri — I am witness to
that — and constantly speaking of her
wrongs to the rest. She swears she will
have your life some way or other ; and for
that reason only, I think it would be
much wiser of you to leave the plantation.
She is quite capable indeed of betraying
you to Mr Courtney ; and such
a proceeding might lead to your arrest,
on a suspicion of felonious purposes.
Now, do you see the danger you
are in ? '

Indeed I do, and I shall not sleep
another night on Beauregard : you may
take my word for that. Indeed, when
I come to think of it, I cannot imagine
how I can have been such a fool as to
run the risk for so long. There are
plenty of places in San Diego where I
can be safer, and bide my time for my
revenge.'

Do more, whilst you are about it,
Henri. Leave San Diego altogether,
and your idea of revenge behind you.
It will never make you any happier,
and it may cast a haunting regret overall
your future. And you are still young.
There is perhaps a happy life looming
for you in the distance, if you will
try and forget the failure of your
youth.'

No, Lizzie ; you speak to deaf ears.
I will fulfil your wish, and leave this

place. Be satisfied with that, and when
I am gone, forget all about me. I was
never worthy to kiss even the hem of
your garment, and my darkest shame
will ever be that I permitted you to
waste a single thought upon me. Goodbye,
my dear. Don't stay here any
longer, for your presence, and the memories
it brings with it, unman and make
a coward of me. By this time tomorrow
I shall have left Beauregard
for ever.'

Thank Heaven for that,' replied Lizzie,
as she obeyed his request, and left the
hut.

Her mind was not wholly at ease concerning
him, because she saw that he
was doggedly bent upon having his own
way ; but she had, at all events, succeeded
in scaring him off the property of her
benefactors, and trusted that when his evil

influence was removed from them, the
hands of Beauregard would return to
their former condition of obedience and
contentment.

Lizzie had guessed correctly
when she said that Mara-quite's
infidelity would prove
its own punishment. The honeymoon
at Santa Lucia was not a very satisfactory
one, at least for the bride. So
long as the day endured, and Quita's
frivolous soul could be gorged on flattery,
and the servile congratulations paid herby
her husband's guests, she was contented
with her lot, and disposed to
believe it would turn out all she had
prognosticated for herself. To feel she

was the woman of most importance in
the island, and that she had horses and
carriages, and servants at her command,
and that a military guard accompanied
her wherever she went, and everybody
turned to gaze after her, and said to
one another, ' There goes the Governor's
bride,' was quite sufficient to inflate
her foolish Httle heart with pride, and
make her forget, for the time being,
the penalty attached to it all. But
one cannot pass one's entire life in
public, and when the hours of domestic
happiness arrived, they were very trying.
Then, if she had had a handsome
young husband suited to herself in age
and disposition waiting on her every
look and smile while he whispered words
of love in her ear, how delighted would
Maraquita have been to fly to the
sacred recesses of her own apartments.

and shut the world and its hollow compliments
outside. But now such moments
became torture. Sir Russell had been
sufficiently trying as a lover, but asa
husband he became simply unendurable.
His middle-aged ecstasies over
his new possession, his fussy attentions,
his twaddling conversation about things
and people of which she had never
heard, soon bored his young wife to
extinction. And he was not slow to
find out that he did not interest her.
He noted the vacant look, the wandering
attention, the deep sighs that occasionally
interrupted their intercourse, and
commenced to feel the first twinges of
jealousy, and to wonder if there had
been any other admirer in the background
whom Lady Johnstonee had not
entirely forgotten.

If he could only have read her

thoughts as she sat by his side when
they were alone together, or lay for
hours during the silent watches of the
night gazing open-eyed at the dark
blue heaven with its myriad clusters
of stars, how unpleasantly satisfied he
would have been. It was at those
times that the newly-made Lady John-stone's
thoughts returned to the past
which she had so pertinaciously thrust
from her, and that she longed (with
the contradiction of human nature) to
be able to take back again to her
heart the fate which she had held in
her hand, without the moral courage to
grasp it. It was then that the glorious
dark eyes of Henri de Courcelles
seemed to gaze into her own like twin
stars, just as they used to look at those
heavenly moments when they sat together

on the bench in the Oleander Thicket,
VOL. III. G

and her lover's arms were folded closely
round her, as though to shield her from
all harm.

Henri de Courcelles had innumerable
faults, but he had loved this girl withall
his heart, and, now that it was too
late, Maraquita seemed to realise it for
the first time. There was another regret,
too, that intruded itself into her
married life, a regret that seemed to
grow with the days, and assume such
inconceivable proportions that she was
tempted to cry out that she could bear
it no longer, but must at all risks rush
back to San Diego and see her child.
Sometimes the unhappy young mother
would dream that the infant was dying,
and wake up with the tears upon her
cheek ; sometimes that it really belonged
to Lizzie, and she had lost the right to
call it hers ; and sometimes that she

held it to her heart, and was proud and
fond of it hake other mothers, until she
discovered it was a poisonous asp, stinging
the bosom on which it lay. Such
thoughts and dreams were not good for
the young bride to indulge in, and she
grew paler and thinner every day. Sir
Russell called in a doctor, who declared
Lady Johnstonee's condition to be due
to weakness, consequent on her late
attack of fever, and advised her immediate
return to San Diego, as possessing
a higher and more bracing air
than Santa Lucia. Sir Russell sought
his wife's rooms, all fuss and anxiety
on account of her low spirits, and communicated
the medical man's opinion to
her. They had been married now for
three weeks, and the Governor had
already come to the conclusion that a
domestic life was not all roses. He

found his beautiful Maraquita rather
petulant at times, and disposed to have
her own way. She was not very affectionate
either, and flouted his attempts
at love-making in a manner sufficient
to cure the most ardent lover. He
was disappointed certainly ; he had
imagined women were more open to
their husbands' advances ; but, after all,
he knew very little about the sex, and
was quite ready, as yet, to lay the
failure at his own door. He was not
fit, he told himself, to be the companion
of such an innocent, guileless
creature ; she felt the difference between
his society and that she had
left behind her. The position was new
and strange to her. She would be her
own sweet self again when they returned
to San Diego and she was
restored to her parents' arms. The

alacrity with which Maraquita assented
to his proposal to go home, confirmed
his sentiments upon the subject. It
would have been somewhat of a shock
to him could he have read her thoughts
on the occasion ; but how few of us
could afford to read the mind of our
dearest friend, without fear. Maraquita's
face glowed, and her heart beat faster,
as she pictured herself settled at Government
House. She would have a chance
then of seeing Lizzie again — perhaps of
seeing Henri de Courcelles. Whilst it
lay in his power to deprive her of her
promised dignity, she had dreaded his
presence, and hoped he was far away
from San Diego ; but now that her
position as Lady Johnstonee was secure,
and no one could dethrone her, she
began to crave for the excitement of
seeing her lover again. Weak and

vacillating as she had been as Mara-quite
Courtney, she was even worse
as Lady Johnstonee, for now her weakness
threatened to become a crime.
Her depression of spirits and her
feverish anxiety were so patent, that
the first time Mrs Courtney was alone
with her daughter, she taxed her with
the change.

Whatever is the matter with you,
my dear child ? ' she exclaimed ; ' you
don't seem half so happy as I expected
to see you. Here you are, the
Governor's wife, and the lady of highest
rank in San Diego, and yet you seem
quite melancholy. You don't mean to
tell me that you are disappointed, or
that your marriage has not proved all
you expected it to be ? '

'Oh, no, mamma! I suppose it's all
right ! I've got the position and the

money, and no one can have been such
a fool as to think I married a bald-headed
stupid old man like Sir Russell
for anything else.'

Mrs Courtney lifted her hands and
eyebrows in surprise.

'My dear! my dear! remember he's
the Governor ! '

How can I forget it ? Isn't it dinned
into my ears from sunrise to sunset !
Of course he's the Governor ! I am
sure he need be, for he's very little
else ! But I'm afraid that fact is not
sufficient for one's happiness.'

My darling, what more can you
possibly want .'^ A splendid house, and
number of servants, equipages, and
horses, jewels, dresses, ornaments, and
the whole island at your feet! Why, I
think you are the luckiest girl I ever
heard of.'

But her eloquence was interrupted
by Maraqulta flinging herself headlong
on a couch, and sobbing out, —

'I'm not! I'm not! I'm as unhappy
as I can be ! I wish I had never
consented to give up my poor Henri !
I dream of him every night ! '

But at that confession, her mother's
attempt at consolation changed to
righteous scorn.

Then you must be the wickedest
girl alive, Maraquita ! Dreaming of any
man but your husband, and not married
a month yet ! You ought to be ashamed
to mention such a thing, even to your
mother ! And that wretched low-born
overseer too — a half-caste Spaniard,
with neither birth nor money. I am
utterly surprised at you ! '

Mamma, you shan't abuse him ! He
may be everything you say, but he's

gloriously handsome ; and he loved me,
and I ought to have married him ! Why
didn't you manage it some way ? You
knew all about us, and you could have persuaded
papa to settle something on him,
and let us live with you at Beauregard,
and then it would have been all right,
and I should have been much happier
there with him and my poor little baby — '
Maraquita ! are you mad?' cried
her mother, clapping her hand before
her daughter's mouth ; ' or do you want
every official in Government House to
hear your shameful secret ? Good
heavens, it is enough to make me
regret I ever interfered to save you
from your own folly! If you confess
the truth now, you will make matters
a thousand times worse than if you
had made the low marriage you seem
to hanker after. It would be a nice

scandal for the island, to hear that the
Governor had repudiated you on account
of your former light conduct! Then
you would lose everything — reputation,
position, and wealth, and gain nothing
in exchange.'

I could go to Henri,' said Maraquita
doggedly, for she possessed one of those
persistent natures that can work themselves
up into a belief, and she was
working herself up to believe that she
was still passionately in love with De
Courcelles, and ready to sacrifice everything
for him.

That you certainly could not,' returned
Mrs Courtney, determined to cut
her folly in the bud, ' for he is not in
San Diego.'

Where is he then ? ' exclaimed Quita,
raising herself from the sofa cushion.

He has gone to America,' replied

her mother, ignoring her regard for truth
so long as she drove this nonsense out
of Maraquita's mind.

To America ! ' repeated the girl. ' Oh,
why did he go there ? What is he going
to do ? '

That is his business, not ours ; but
I believe his family live in the States.
However, he will never return to San
Diego, and so you see how little you will
gain, and how much you may lose, by
indulging in this sentimental folly. Indeed,
I cannot understand you, Quita !
Your one desire last month was to hear
that this most objectionable young man
had left the island, and now you are
moaning after him as if he had been
your dearest friend instead of your worst
enemy.*

He loved me ! ' sobbed Maraquita.

I don't think he did love you,' rejoined

Mrs Courtney. ' No man who loved you
would have treated you in so dishonourable
a manner. However, he has been
ready enough to run away from you,
and now the best thing you can do is
to forget all about him. Indeed, you must
compel yourself to do so, my dear. You
owe it not only to your husband, but
to your father and mother. And just
think what a wicked thing you are doing
too — crying after another man when you
are Sir Russell's wife. You horrify and
grieve me beyond measure ! '

Yes, Mrs Courtney was perfectly
right !

It was both weak and wicked of Lady
Johnstonee to let old memories obtrude
themselves upon her wedded life, but
she had been far weaker and wickeder
when she gave them up against her inclination.
An eligible marriage is no cure

for an ill-placed love, and the laws
neither of God nor man have any power
to quench passion in the human heart.
They may help the victim to keep it
under, but it is the one feeling that
refuses to be silent until it has died a
natural death. Whilst poor faulty Mara-quite
believed that Henri de Courcelles
was lying in ambush somewhere ready
to appear before her at any moment,
holding the pledge of their love in his
arms, as he did upon her wedding day,
she had had a great fear mingled with
her insane desire to see him again ; but
now that her mother assured her he had
left San Diego for ever, and she should
never be able to ask his forgiveness, her
dread of him vanished, to give place to
a morbid regret. She wept so much and
ate so little during the first days of her
installation at Government House, that

Mrs Courtney (who had been invited by
Sir Russell to stay with her daughter)
became quite seriously alarmed for the
consequences of her grief, and tried all
she could to rouse her by a description
of the splendid preparations which were
being made for the ball to be given in
honour of their return.

My dear girl, I never saw anything
like it ! Sir Russell is certainly the
most generous of men, and the whole
island is talking of him. He has given
a carte blanche order for all the white
flowers procurable, and the ball-room
will be decorated with nothing else. It
will look like a huge bridal bouquet.'

Or a funeral shroud,' suggested Quita,
with a disagreeable laugh.

My darling ! what a strange thing
to say. We won't have it too white, if
you have such unpleasant comparisons to

make. I will suggest to Sir Russell to
have the wreaths tied with blue ribbons ;
or pink roses interspersed with the white
ones, would look very pretty.'

I'm sure I shouldn't take the trouble,
if I were you, mamma ! Let him have
his own way. What does it signify what
it looks like?'

I think it signifies a great deal,' returned
Mrs Courtney warmly ; ' and when
I come to consider the matter, white
will not set off the dresses as a little
colour would do. For most of the ladies
will be in white ; and you will wear
your wedding-dress, of course, Mara-quite.'


I suppose so, mamma.'

'You will have to open the ball with'
Colonel Symonds, being the next gentleman
in rank to the Governor on the
island, and Sir Russell must lead out

Mrs Symonds. It will be a magnificent
sight, with all the officers in full uniform,
and the military bands in the orchestra.
The supper-tables are to be laid for
three hundred, though I don't know
where they are all to come from ; but
Sir Russell is so generous. It will bethe
proudest day of my life — next to
your wedding-day, Maraquita.'

I shall be very glad if you enjoy it,
mamma.'

Come, come, my dear girl, I won't
have you speak of it in that uninterested
tone, as if you were an old woman of
eighty, past all thoughts of dancing and
admiration. Why, there's not a girl in
the island that dances better than you
do, Quita; and think how every eye will
be fixed upon you, and how the women
will envy your dress and your beautiful
jewels, and wish they had your luck.

Why, there's not a girl in San Diego
but would give her eyes to stand in
your shoes.'

I daresay ! but they pinch sometimes
said Quita, with a yawn.

My daring, all wives' shoes pinch
sometimes,' replied her mother. ' Marriage
is not a bed of roses, any more than
any other condition. But it is necessary
to a woman's well-doing, and you have
drawn a splendid prize in the matrimonial
lottery. And now what time will your
ladyship please to drive this afternoon ? '

Quita smiled. She liked to be called
your ladyship.' If there was one thing-above
another that reconciled her to the
step she had taken, it was to hear herself
addressed by that much - coveted title.
What children most women are, after all, and
how easily caught with glittering baubles.
Jewels and a title make up the sum total

VOL. III. H

of domestic happiness for the majority of
the sex. Maraquita believed herself to be
wretched for the loss of Henri de Courcelles,
but had she been put to the test,
she would not have given up her newly-acquired
dignity, nor one of her sets of
ornaments, to bring him to her feet again.
She would sit for hours with her jewel
cases in her lap, fingering the bracelets,
and rings, and necklaces that Sir Russell
had given her, and holding up the bloodred
rubies, and the grass-green emeralds,
and the deep blue sapphires, and the pure
white diamonds to the light, laughing to
see them catch the sun's rays, and shoot
out a thousand little stars of fire to meet
them. And as the day for the grand ball
drew near, she seemed to recover her
cheerfulness. Mrs Courtney was delighted
to see the interest she suddenly evinced
about her dress, and the ornaments she

was to wear with it, and the manner in
which she should arrange her hair ; and
when the evening arrived, she was as
flushed with excitement, and as eager
for the festivities to be a success, as anyone
could have wished to see her. It was
a proud moment for Mr and Mrs Courtney
when they stood by the side of the dais
which had been erected for the convenience
of the newly-married pair to receive their
numerous guests. Sir Russell, in his
Governor's uniform, looked imposing if
not handsome ; and Maraquita, arrayed in
her wedding garments, stood by his side
like a dainty fairy. All San Diego — that
is, all the respectable portion of it — passed
before them in single file, to offer their congratulations
before the ball commenced, and
there was but one opinion of the appearance
of the bride — that she was the handsomest
woman on the island. Mr and Mrs Courtney

swelled with pride as they overheard the
various comments on her appearance, and
felt rewarded at last for all the trouble
and anxiety their wayward daughter had
given them. The ballroom at Government
House was a long apartment, with
five or six windows on either side, all open
on account of the heat. The spaces between
these windows were hidden with
trophies of flags, and flowers, so that it
looked like a vast bower of leaves and
blossoms, open at intervals to the outer
air. Six large chandeliers pendant from
the ceiling, and laden with wax candles,
made the ballroom a blaze of light, and
rendered it a conspicuous object from the
outside. That the poorer part of the
population should not consider themselves
entirely shut out from the wedding
festivities, Sir Russell had ordered a
handsome display of fireworks to be sent

up from the Fort at ten o'clock, and
hundreds of coloured people were waiting
around, in anticipation of the display.
The supper, which had taken many days
to prepare, was laid in another room on
the same floor, on a series of tables, which
were glittering with knives, and forks, and
glass, and silver ; and everything promised
to go as merrily as the proverbial marriage
bell. As soon as they had received their
guests. Sir Russell and Lady Johnstonee
opened the ball with the two people of
highest rank present, and dancing became
general.

Maraquita, who was passionately fond of
the exercise, did not miss a single turn.
Her card was naturally soon filled up,
for every man present tried to secure
a waltz with the bride, and she flew allover
the room like a beautiful Bacchante,
flushed and smiling, whilst her parents

looked on with admiring complacency, and
one at least thanked Heaven secretly that
the threatened danger was at an end, and
her child had begun at last to properly
appreciate the benefits of her high position.
The evening had waxed towards
midnight, and though the dancers gave
no signs of fatigue. Sir Russell had just
made his way towards Mr and Mrs Courtney
to consult them whether it would not
be wise to give the signal for supper,
when a loud cry of alarm and sounds of
confusion were heard to proceed from the
apartment where it was laid. Sir Russell
turned pale. He had heard something of
the sort before, and guessed its import ;
but he had no time to communicate his
fears to his friends, when a crowd of
natives rushed into the room, armed
with pistols and knives, and every open
window was simultaneously blocked with

dusky faces, ready to bar all egress, or
to leap inside at a moment's notice.
The band stopped playing at once — the
dancers screamed with alarm — all the men
felt their hearts stop, and many of the
women fainted without warning. But
Sir Russell was English bred, and rose
to the occasion at once. He looked almost
majestic as he met the oncoming
horde of mutineers with an uplifted
hand, as though he challenged them to
advance one step further, and demanded
in a voice of thunder what they required
in his private apartments.

Yottr life I ' shrieked one of the mob,
and de lives ob all des d — d white
trash. And we'll hab them too ! On
wit you, carries ! Cut 'em down like de
dogs what dey are.'

I'll shoot the first man who tries to
pass me ! ' shouted Sir Russell, as he

drew a revolver from his pocket ; and
then turning to his father-in-law, he
exclaimed quickly, — ' Mrs Courtney —
Maraquita, get them away, for God's
sake ! '

Maraquita had already flown to her
parents for protection, and was clinging
to her mother In an agony of tears.

Mamma ! mamma ! what will they do
to us ? Oh, we shall all be killed ! Why
did I ever leave Beauregard ! '

Hush hush ! my darling ! It will be
all right. There must be some mistake,'
replied her mother, although she was
shaking so violently that she could hardly
stand.

But If it was a mistake, it was a very
terrible one, for the next moment the
sound of several shots, and a piercing
scream, proved that the rebels had already
commenced their murderous work.

This way, Nita,' said Mr Courtney
hurriedly, pushing his wife and daughter
before him. * Keep close to the wall,
and escape by the door into the library.
It is your best chance

But before they had gone many paces,
elbowing their way frantically through
the crowd that pressed on them from
every side, the dark faces that had
guarded the open windows perceived
their means of exit, and with a cry of
fiendish delight, leapt into the room to
prevent it.

We are lost ! ' cried Mrs Courtney.
Oh, Mr Courtney, in Heaven's name,
what are we to do ? '

Stand before Quita. Conceal her at
all risks, and I will help you,' replied
the father, as he ranged himself by the
side of his trembling wife, and in front
of his daughter ; and then he whispered,

Have no fear, Nita ; they can have no
object in wounding tts. Their malice is
against Sir Russell and our poor child.
Spread your skirts over her, for Heaven's
sake.'

Meanwhile the slaughter became general.
The rebels rushed hither and
thither in search of Maraquita, wounding
or killing every girl they thought to
be the bride, with, in most instances,
the men who resented the murder, until
the ballroom reeked with blood, and
the screams of the unhappy victims were
appalling. But the alarm had been given
at once, and in a few minutes the opposition
shots of the military forces were
heard, and scores of the rebels bit the
dust, whilst many more were taken
prisoners. Amongst the latter was a
young and handsome Spanish half-caste,
whose dark eyes were on fire with the

lust for revenge, but who made no effort
to free himself from his captors.

The clanger is past ! Thank God
that you are both safe ! ' exclaimed Mr
Courtney, as he turned to embrace his
wife and daughter.

Sir Russell had been wounded in the
wrist by a slash from one of his own
dinner knives ; but the Fort physician
had bound it up, and, now that the first
alarm was over, he was able to go in
search of his bride.

Maraquita, my dearest ! ' he exclaimed
fervently, as he saw the pale little figure
which Mr Courtney was supporting,
this is a terrible affair, but, thank God,
the brutes have not injured you, nor
your parents ! You must come away
from here at once, my love. Take her,
Mr Courtney, I beg of you, to her own
apartments. This is no sight for her.'

Quita closed her eyes, and shuddered
as her glance fell on the prostrate corpses,
both black and white, that lay on the
ballroom floor, and heard the moans of
those to whom the surgeon was already
attending ; and she was quite willing to
go away with her parents, and try and
forget the terrible business in sleep.

Yes, yes,' she murmured, clinging to
her father ; * take me away at once, papa
I cannot bear it.'

But when she had advanced a few
paces into the room, her eyes opened
again from sheer horror, and fell on a
sight which paralysed her. There, standing
before her, though held back by the
pinioning arms of his captors, was Henri
de Courcelles, whom she believed to be
in America, with such hatred and fury
in his glance as she had never seen
before.

Henri ! ' she shrieked involuntarily,
before she could prevent herself.


So you have escaped! — curse you?'
he answered, glaring at her like a fiend.
Then what am I doing here .^ I must
be free, to live to avenge myself on you.'
And without another word, and a sudden
effort that took the men who held him
completely by surprise, Henri de Courcelles
wrenched himself away, and 
the open window, leapt into the darkness
and was gone.

He must have killed himself!' exclaimed
one of the soldiers, looking out
upon the night. ' There is a fall hereof
about twenty feet.'

Order the guard round to take him
prisoner ! ' shouted Sir Russell. * The
wall beneath the window is sixteen
feet high. They will take him like a

rat in a trap. And if not, tell them
to shoot him like a dog.'

No, no ! ' cried Maraquita wildly.
They mttst not — they shall not — he —
he—'

But there she fainted, and fell in a
heap at her husband's feet.

'He is the ringleader of the whole
mutiny, — the greatest rascal of them all !
What can she know of him ? ' demanded
Sir Russell, with a frown.

Nothing ; she never saw him before,'
replied Mrs Courtney boldly, though
she was shaking with fear lest Mara-quite
should betray herself.

But she called him " Henri." I
heard her,' said the Governor.

He was a servant on Beauregard
once, Sir Russell. I forgot that when
I said Maraquita had never seen him.
But really this terrible business has

shaken me so that I don't know what
I'm saying. But my poor darling must
be carried to her room. She is not
fit to walk. I hope this shocking affair
may not unsettle her reason.'

It seems as if it had done so already,
when one hears her pleading for the
life of a murderer,' said Sir Russell, ashe
assisted Mrs Courtney to carry the
unconscious girl to her own apartments.
And now, Mrs Courtney, I will leave
my wife in your charge. This is a very
serious matter, and may necessitate my
sitting up all night. The rebellion is
quelled for the moment, but I must
not rest until measures have been taken
to prevent its recurrence. My guests
murdered before my very eyes ! It is
incredible that such a thing should
happen in Her Majesty's dominions.
And we must crush the mutiny, if we

string them all up to the Fort gates.
And this ringleader, this old servant
(as you say) of yours, shall be the
first to suffer. I will give him lynch
law as soon as ever the dawn rises.
I will teach him what the penalty is
of addressing the Governor's wife as he
has dared to do.'

And with this threat upon his lips,
Sir Russell stalked gloomily away.

S soon as the Governor had
disappeared, Mrs Courtney
tried hard to get her husband
out of the room ; but he was
obstinately bent on remaining until his
daughter had recovered her consciousness,
and so, when Maraquita opened
her eyes, both her father and mother
were bending over her.

Where am I ? ' she exclaimed, as
the world broke indistinctly upon her
again.

In your own room, my darling. Lie

VOL. III. I

down, Quita. Don't attempt to rise.
You are quite safe. No one can hurt
you here.'

Safe ! ' repeated the girl, in a bewildered
tone. ' Ah, I remember now !
The ball-room — the blood — those dreadful
cries ! Oh, mamma, mamma,' she
continued, clinging to her mother, * I
shall never forget it ! And Julie Latreille
too. I saw her murdered at my side.
It is too, too horrible!'

No, no, my dearest. You are mistaken.
Julie is not dead. She was
wounded, and they have taken her to
the hospital. But don't think of it anymore
to-night. Let me undress you,
that you may try and get some sleep.'

'Not think of it!' said Maraquita,
with staring bloodshot eyes, as she sat
up on the couch in her white lace dress,
all crumpled and spattered with blood,

*not think of it. Why, I shall never
cease to think of it. And there was
something else too. What was it ? Ah,
Henri ! and he cursed me ! '

Mr Courtney, I must request you to
leave us ! ' exclaimed his wife hurriedly.
You see the excitable condition she is
in, and I can do nothing with her whilst
you are hanging over her like this. The
less people she has with her the better !
You must positively go, and leave her
to Jessica and me.'

Well, my dear, if you think it necessary,
of course I will go ; but you will lose
no time, I hope, in getting the poor child
into bed.'

Do you suppose I don't know what
is best for her, Mr Courtney? I am
only waiting till you are gone, to undress
her.'

And you will send me word how she

goes on — I shall not retire till I hear
she has recovered her composure, and
is in a fair way to sleep.'

I will send Jessica to you in half an
hour. By that time, I hope we shall
both have somewhat overcome this terrible
shock. I shall stay with her all night, and
you had better go and tell Sir Russell so.'

And Mrs Courtney, who had been carrying
on this colloquy just inside the bedroom
door, opened it, and gently pushing
her husband into the passage, closed
and locked it, with a sigh of relief.

Thank Heaven ! ' she said to old
Jessica, ' we are safe ! I trembled for
what she might say next.'

'Allays dat cussed overseer,' observed
the old negress, who stood by Quita's
head.

The girl herself was still sitting up on
the couch when her mother returned to

her, staring into vacancy, and repeating
the word ' Henry in a low voice.

Maraquita ! ' said Mrs Courtney
firmly, as she shook the girl to rouse
her to a sense of her position, * who are
you talking to ? There is no one here !
You are quite alone with Jessica and me.
You are perfectly safe. All the danger
is over, and Goverment House is guarded
by the soldiery on every side. Come to
bed now, like a good child, and try to
sleep.'

'But he — where is he?' asked Mara-quite
wildly. ' Did they fire on him ?
Is he hurt?'

Sir Russell, my darling ? Well, nothing
to signify ! The brutes slashed at him
with their knives, and caught him on the
wrist, but the doctor says it will be all
right again in a few days, and he will
come and see you by-and-by, dear.'

Not him ! I don't want him ! ' returned
Maraqulta fretfully, 'but Henri —
where is my Henri ? He jumped out of
the window, and Sir Russell ordered them
to kill him. Oh, tell me, in Heaven's
name, is he dead?'

Mrs Courtney did not know what to
answer, but Jessica was ready with the
information.

No, Missy Quita, he not dead.
Governor's Sambo tell me all de news
just now. De guard go after him, and
take him prisoner, and shut him up in
Fort cell, where he can't come out.
And so my missy quite safe, and can goto
sleep comfortable.'

There, my darling, you hear what old
Jessica says,' interposed Mrs Courtney
soothingly. * They have got him in
prison. It was like his insolence to speak
to you as he did ; but you have given him

so much encouragement, that the creature
is beside himself. But he has overleapt
the mark this time, and will never trouble
you again.'

Will they — kill him ? ' said Quita,
with a shiver.

I hope so, I'm sure. It would bethe
best thing for all of us, and drive
this romantic nonsense out of your head,
Maraquita. Why, what is this, my dear ?
You are surely not weeping for the fate
of this murderer, who has instigated his
fellows to kill half your friends, and
would have killed you, and your husband,
and your parents, if he had had
the opportunity ? I shall begin to think
you have very little love for your father
or myself, if you can prefer his life to
ours.'

Oh, no, mamma, it isn't that ! I
am very thankful to think you are all

safe. Only — only — Henri, who used to
love me so — to die ! Oh, it must not
be! It is too shocking!'

'If a man sets all the laws of his
country at naught, he must pay the
penalty of his wrong-doing,' said Mrs
Courtney sententiously.

Yes ; but there is some excuse
for him, mamma. Think of his grief
for my loss, his jealousy, his revenge.
It was / who drove him to it. I
should have been true to him at
all hazards, and then this terrible
business would never have happened.
Oh, mamma, he must not die, or
his spirit will haunt me all my
days,' said Quita, trembling, with
closed eyes.

Maraquita, you are exaggerating the
blame that is due to you in this matter.
In the first place, we don't know that

the mutiny was organised on your account
at all. The negroes are disaffected,
I am sorry to say, all over San Diego.
And if it were, it is an outrage which
should call forth nothing but resentment
on your part. You have been foolishly
weak in former times with regard to
this man ; but he must have been
insane if he ever believed you would
marry him. You followed your parents'
wishes in accepting Sir Russell John-stone,
and have nothing to reproach
yourself with in regard to it. Now,
leave the rest of the matter to him, and
don't worry your head about it. You
may depend upon it, the Governor will
do what is just and right, and such a
dreadful affair will never be allowed to
happen again.'

But Henri — what will they do to
Henri ? ' moaned Maraquita.

Oh, this is unbearable ! You are
past all reason ! ' cried Mrs Courtney
impatiently. ' Here, Jessica, help me
off with her ladyship's things, and let
us put her into bed.'

She pulled off the various garments
of cambric and lace, almost roughly, in
her indignation at her daughter's weakness
; and having seen Maraquita laid
in bed, she left her in her old nurse's
care, whilst she went to ask the doctor
for a sleeping draught.

Jessica had been installed at Government
House as she had desired, and
her wages had been raised to nearly
double their former sum. Lady Russell
had felt uncomfortable at first to remember
that there was some one beside
her who knew all about her maiden
life, but in her present extremity she
turned to her old servant with a feeling

of security that she need hide nothing
from her. As her mother left the room,
she moved on her pillow with a heavy
sigh, and laid her little white hand in
Jessica's dark palm. The negro nature,
if vindictive and revengeful under injustice,
is also very affectionate and easily
conciliated. This caressing action on
Maraquita's part touched her old nurse's
heart. It was some time since her
little missy had shown any token of
love for her, and it won her over on
the instant to her side.

'Jessica,' sighed Quita, ' I'm very unhappy.'


I know you is, poor missy,' responded
the negress. ' You're feeling' berry bad
to-night. And, sakes ! it's no wonder.
But it'll be all right time-by, missy.'

I loved him, Jessica, very much,' continued
her young mistress. ' You knew

all about us, and how I used to slip out
when everybody was asleep, and go to
meet him in the Oleander thicket'

*Ah, yes, missy, Jessica knew. Many's
the night I've sot up, and watched and
waited for you to come back ; but it was
generally daylight before you came. Ah!
you used to love de overseer in dose days,
Missy Quita, pretty strong.'

'And I love him still, Nurse! I can't
help it ! ' cried Quita feverishly, as she sat
up in bed, with her dark hair floating about
her, and stared at the negress with dilated
eyes. ' I have loved him all along ; and
if they kill him, they will kill me too.'

No, no, missy ; Governor not killing
Massa Courcelles. Only keep him in
prison little while, and den let him go
free. Lie down, missy, and go sleep.
All right time-by.'

But I want to see him ! ' exclaimed

Ouita excitedly. * I want to hear everything
they are going to do to him ; and
I want to ask his forgiveness for having
married Sir Russell. I must see him,
Jessica. I shall go mad if I don't.'

Den missy shall see him,' replied the
servant soothingly.

Will you manage it for me, Jessica ? '
asked the girl eagerly; 'and without saying
a word to mamma. Will you find
out where Monsieur de Courcelles has
been taken, and if I can possibly get
permission to visit him, and if there will
be a trial, and when ? Find out everything,
Jessica, and let me know tomorrow
morning, and you shall have
the pair of gold bangles papa gave me
last birthday. Stay ! you shall have
them now,' continued Quita, as she
sprang from her bed and took the ornaments
off her dressing-table. ' Put them

on your wrists, Jessica, and remember
you are to find out everything ! '

Missy berry good to ole Jessica,' said
the negress, as she clasped the glittering
circlets on her dusky arms, and feasted
her eyes on them; 'and I'll know
de whole truth by to - morrow morning.
Only missy must lie down again
now, and keep all dis berry dark,
or de ole missus nebber let me tell
muffin.'

The entrance of Mrs Courtney at this
juncture with the opiate draught put a
stop to further confidence, and Maraquita,
having obediently swallowed it, soon lost
sight of her troubles in sleep. Mrs
Courtney dismissed Jessica for the night,
and lay down by her daughter's side ;
but it was long before she followed her
example. She trembled not only for the
fright she had gone through, but for the

influence she feared it might have upon
Maraquita's future.

'Poor child!' she thought, as she contemplated
the lovely face, now tranquil in
slumber on the pillow beside her, * she is
passing through a terrible ordeal. I only-trust
it may not cause a rupture between
Sir Russell and herself. I am certain he
suspects something. I did not half like the
look with which he received my explanation
of the matter. It was the most unfortunate
thing in the world that that fellow
should have been planted right in Mara-quite's
way as she left the room. Two
minutes sooner or later, and she would not
have seen him. Now, I hardly dare to
think how it may end. If he is condemned
to death, she certainly must not hear of
it : I must invent some reason to Sir
Russell for taking her away. Her emotional
nature would break down altogether

under such a strain. What an

awful thing it is that she should ever

have fallen into his clutches ! ' And Mrs

Courtney sighed over it until she fell

asleep.

As soon as the morning broke, Mara-quite
having passed a good night, and
everything being tranquil at Government
House, she accompanied her husband to
Beauregard for the day, for all the planters
vere entertaining grave fears for the continued
submission of their coolie hands,
and it was not thought advisable to leave
the estates for long at a time without a
ruling eye. Her departure vas the signal
for a long conference between Lady
Russell and old Jessica. The negress
had ascertained that it was possible for
the friends of the prisoners to obtain
access to them through a written order
from the Governor, but that the privilege

would only be extended in the case of
relations.

That renders it impossible ! ' exclaimed
Quita despairingly, for she was nota
woman with the wit to overcome
difficulties.

How so, missy ? ' demanded Jessica.
Why impossible ? / can get order
quick enough.'

You, Jessica ? But Sir Russell knows
you. Besides, he would never believe you
were related to Monsieur de Courcelles.'

Oh, missy, I not going work dat
way at all. Course he not gib it to me ;
but if missy gib me five-dollar note, dat
half-caste woman Rosita will go swaer
she's de overseer's aunt, or his modern,
and want speak to him with her daughter
dat's you, missy. Den you put veil
over your face, and big cloak, and go
with Rosita and see de overseer.'

VOL. III. K

But Rosita may tell,' said Mara-quite,
shrinking from the idea.

Jessica shrugged her shoulders contemptuously.


Rosita not tell — what good her
telling ? but if missy 'afraid, gib her
ten dollars 'stead of five! den I swear
she not tell.'

And what else did you hear, Jessica
? '

Sambo say de Governor would ahab
hung all de mutineers dis morning,
same like dogs, only de Colonel ob de
forces tell him dat berry bad plan, and
make big fight, and he better have
proper martials. So dat am fixed for
tomorrow, and den dey will be hung
at sunset fire — dat what Sambo says.'

And — and — what more, Jessica .'^ '

Dat's pretty well all, missy, only
de corpses hab been cleared away,

and will be buried dis evening. And
Missy Latreille berry bad in hospital,
and both de Missy Burns dead, and
dere fader hab sworn if Governor
don't hang de rebels, he will'

Oh, it is terrible ! ' sighed Mara-quite.
* I shall never have the courage
to visit the cells. I am so afraid of
being found out.'

Den missy better not go.'

But, Jessica, he will die without
my seeing him, and I shall never
forgive myself. I don't know what todo.'


She vacillated, like the weak creature
she was, between two opinions, until
it was almost too late for Jessica
to arrange the matter for her ; but
finally, under the dread of her mother's
speedy return from Beauregard, she
made up her mind to visit De Courcelles,

and Jessica was despatched
with a ten dollar note to make the
necessary preparations.

When the afternoon sun was somewhat
on the wane, and Sir Russell
Johnstonee, having passed a sleepless
night, and believing his wife to be
safe in her own apartments, had thrown
himself down on a couch to obtain
some rest, Maraquita, effectually disguised
with veil and cloak, stole down
the back staircase of Government
House, in company with the negress,
and sought the abode of the half-caste
woman Rosita, who had been
fully instructed in the part she had
to play. Leaving Jessica behind them,
the two women immediately set out
for the Fort, where they were received
by the officer commanding the prison
guard. He threw one glance on the

Governor's signature, and gave them
immediate admittance.

Friends to see the prisoner No. 14,
by the Governor's permission,' he shouted
to the warder, who, unlocking a heavy
iron-clamped door, ushered the visitors
into a stone passage, from which there
seemed to be no possibility of egress.
Maraquita's feeble courage was fast
failing her, and had it not been for
the cool nerve and determination of
Rosita, she would have probably betrayed
herself. But the half-caste woman
was quite equal to the emergency.

Ah, sir, tell me ! ' she exclaimed,
as soon as they were alone with the
warder, ' will they really kill my poor
nephew ? Is there no chance of a
reprieve ? '

Don't think so, ma'am,' was the official's
answer ; ' but no one can tell for certain

till after the court - martial tomorrow.
Your nephew, you say ? '

Yes ! and this poor girl, my daughter,
was to have been married to him before
long. It's a terrible trial for her ! I don't
know how she'll stand the interview.'

She'd better not see him. 'Won't dono
good,' said the warder roughly ; * though
she's had a lucky escape from such a
rascal.'

But I've come on her account alone.
She can't rest till she's seen her cousin.
Now, Clara, my dear, you'd better go in
by yourself first, and then when the time's
up, the warder will let you know.'

All this had been pre-arranged between
them, but Rosita played her part much
better than Maraquita had the power todo.
Her large eyes glanced up almost
appealingly when No. 14 was reached,
and the gaoler's keys rattled in the door,

and had not her companion pushed her
into the cell, she would have turned round
and run away. But it was done, and her
retreat was cut off. She stood in the same
room as Henri de Courcelles.

Friends for No. 14,' sung out the
warder, as he opened the door ; ' only
fifteen minutes allowed, so make the most
of them.'

Henri de Courcelles looked up in
amazement as the order sounded on his
ear. He knew of no friends to visit him
in his trouble. He was sitting in a small
whitewashed room, which contained a
pallet, a table, and a couple of wooden
chairs. His day's rations were before him,
but he had not touched them. He was
still in his usual attire, for it had not
been thought worth while to put him into
prison clothes, and notwithstanding an
unshorn face and unkempt hair, he was

looking as handsome — perhaps handsomer,
than ever, for disorder suited his gipsy
style of beauty. As he caught sight of
Maraquita's shrouded and veiled figure, he
started a little, but he never supposed fora
moment it could be she, until she lifted
her veil, and gazed at him with scared and
mournful eyes.

Henri,' she exclaimed, in a piteous
voice, ' I have come to see you ! '

In her vanity, she had believed she had
only to stand before him, and look
miserable, to bring him to her feet again.
She had forgotten the deadly insult she had
put upon the man by marrying Sir Russell
Johnstonee ; the lies with which she had
attempted to deceive him to the very end ;
the treachery by which she and her mother
had procured his dismissal from Beauregard.
She trusted, like many another
jf her sex, too much to the power of

her beauty to sway the minds of men.
But mere loveliness cannot supply the
place of truth and fidelity, and she had
become nothing in the eyes of her former
lover but a whited sepulchre, and was
the last person upon earth he desired
to see. He sprang to his feet as her
voice fell on his ear, and looked at her
with ineffable scorn.

You have come to see me and why } '

Oh, Henri, how can you ask .'^ Do
you think I am made of stone, that I
have entirely forgotten '^. When I saw
you amongst those terrible mutineers last
night, it nearly killed me.'

It's a pity it didn't quite kill you,'
he replied, ' for women such as you
are not fit to live ! Do you know why
I was there, — why I headed their numbers,
and incited them on to rebellion
and slaughter ? — in order that I might

kill you, — in order that you should not

live to deceive other men, and drive

them to desperation, as you have driven

me.'

Oh, Henri, Henri,' she exclaimed,
panting with fear, * you are raving 1
You would not injure me I Think,
Henri, think of the hours I have lain
with my head on your breast and my
lips to yours ; think how you have
loved me, — of the tie between us, and
I am sure that you would die sooner
than hurt a hair of my head.'

Think of it I ' he repeated, with a
bitter laugh ; * haven't I thought of it
until it has turned my brain, and made
me lust for your blood ? To think
of all your professions of love, and how
they have ended, is to hate and despise
you. The tie between us I It
had better die, and rot where it lies.

than grow up with one tithe of its
mother's falsehood. No, Maraquita, the
time for my belief in you is past. If
you came here to hear compliments, you
have wasted your time, for I have nothing
but loathing and hatred to give you.'

Oh, Henri ! ' she said, shivering,
with her face hidden in her hands,
don't speak to me like that ! I will
go away, and never attempt to cross
your path again, only promise me that
neither you nor your friends shall hurt
me. It was not my fault, indeed it
wasn't. I married at the command of
my parents, and I have been so miserable
since, Henri. I have dreamt of
you almost every night, and longed
to see you again. Oh, don't look at
me like that ! Kiss me, and say you
forgive me, or I shall never know another
happy moment'

Kiss you ! Forgive you / ' he repeated
witheringly. 'Never! Neither
in this Hfe, nor the Hfe to come.
You escaped me last night, Maraquita,
but you shall not escape me for ever.
I have sworn to have your life, in
return for all that was precious to mein
mine, and I will have it yet. I
only bide my time.'

Then her fancied passion died out
beneath his threats and blazing eyes,
and she turned and taunted him with
his inability to carry out his intentions.

You will have my life ? What are
you thinking of, to talk in so absurd
a manner ? Do you forget where you
are ? Are you aware that you will be
brought up for trial tomorrow morning,
and that if I give the Governor
one hint of this conversation, sunset
will see your execution. How will you

be able to carry out your threats
against me then ? '

And so this is the woman who will
never know another happy moment without
my forgiveness ! ' he returned sarcastically,
— ' who can calmly contemplate
my possible execution as the means of
her own deliverance, and hint that she
may expedite it! I thank you, madam,
for showing me your true nature so
openly, else I might have been weak
enough, in these last moments, to believe
you had really preserved some little feeling
for the man who should have been
your husband. But I have a word to
say to you in return. I shall not die
tomorrow — I shall live until I have the
weapon in my hand wherewith to strike
you down. And then I shall not care
how soon I go too. But in hell, Mara-quite
— even in hell — I shall be beside

you, to haunt you with the treachery
which sent us both there.'

Oh, have pity ! — have pity on me ! *
she cried, upon her knees.

I have no pity,' he answered, in a low
voice ; * and I shall have none. You
have left me only one feeling with regard
to you, — determination to carry out
my revenge. When I think of it, I feel
as if I had the strength of ten thousand
devils in me, and could tear these walls
asunder with my bare hands, and set
myself free, only to be revenged on
you.'

Time's up,' called the warder from
outside the door.

Henri, will you not speak one word
to me ? — give me one look before I go ? '
wailed Marquisate

advanced upon her with the eyes
of a demoniac.

Speak to you ? Look at you ? ' he
exclaimed. 'What have I to say to you
that I have not already said ? Leave
this cell, as you value a few more days'
existence, or I shall tear you to pieces
where you stand.'

And at the sight of his uplifted hands
and glowering eyes, Maraquita gave a
low cry, and hastened through the open
doorway.

Not a very pleasant interview, I
guess,' observed the warder, as Quita
walked down the stone passage again,
sobbing as if her heart would break,
and clinging to Rosita's arm. ' I
told you you'd better not see him.
He's more mad than sane, and I was
half afraid he might do you some
harm.'

Is there,' demanded Maraquita, as
soon as she could command her voice

sufficiently to speak, * is there any chance
of his being able to escape from prison ? '

The gaoler laughed.

'Escape ? Well, no. I wouldn't set
my heart on that, if I was you, miss.
'Twould take a better man than he —
though he's a powerful fellow, too — to
break through these walls, when he's
once inside them. He'll never leave
them again, unless it's by the Governor's
orders — you may take your oath of
that.'

At Rosita's house, Jessica received her
weeping young mistress again, and conducted
her safely back to her own apartments
; but it was long before Maraquita
could make up her mind whether she
should speak to Sir Russell on the subject
of De Courcelles or not. Some
suspicion might attach to her doing so,
though she trusted to her native cunning

to make a good story of it. But
if she said nothing, and the court took
a lenient view of the part he had maintained
in the mutiny, Henri de Courcelles
might be set at large again, and
accomplish his wicked designs upon her
life. The love of living, so strong in
every human breast, finally outweighed
all other considerations, and Maraquita,
after a night of painful deliberation, asked
Jessica to summon Sir Russell to her
side.

The Governor, unused to such amenities
on the part of his bride, came with
alacrity, and full of tender solicitude for
the apprehension and terror she had
passed through.

'You must try and dismiss it all from
your mind now, my darling, for the
danger is really past. We try the
mutineers to-day, and I have very little

VOL. III. L

doubt of the sentence which will be
passed upon them.'

There is one — the man who spoke
to me the other night,' said Maraquita,
trembling; 'what will they do to him?'

The Governor frowned.

You mean the ringleader ? I cannot
tell ; but if / had to decide, I should
say that hanging was too good for him.
Why do you ask, my dear? Surely you
are not interested in his fate.'

Oh, no, no ! I am afraid of him,'
replied his wife. * He was papas overseer
once, and he — he — presumed to fall
in love with me ; and because — because
I married you instead, he has sworn to
kill me ; and he will, Sir Russell, I
am sure he will, if they let him go
free 1 '

He shall not go free!' exclaimed her
husband indignantly. * Such outrages

from the half-caste population against
European settlers are not to be tolerated.
I am glad you have told me this, Quita ;
it will go greatly against him, if the
court should be disposed to show him
any favour.'

Oh, do send him away — get rid of
him at all risks. He frightens me. I
shall die of fear,' she whispered, clinging
to Sir Russell's arm.

He shall never frighten you again,
my darling. I will take care of that,'
replied the Governor decidedly, as he
pressed her to him. But as he was
embracing her, Jessica entered the
bedroom, with an official paper.

Orderly from Fort bring for Governor,'
she ejaculated.

Sir Russell glanced over its contents.

Good heavens ! ' he cried, * he has
escaped us ! *

Who — who ? ' demanded Marquisate

very man you were speaking
of — Henri de Courcelles. He has
broken, by some miraculous means, out
of his prison cell, and is missing. I
must order out the mounted police at
once to follow him. Don't be afraid,
Maraquita. It is impossible that he
can escape the vigilance of the law, in
such a little place as San Diego.'

He will — he will !' exclaimed the unhappy
girl, as her husband rushed out
of the room. ' He will live, as he said,
to murder me.' And with that she fell
back unconscious on her pillows.

HE account of the attempted
massacre at Government House
reached Lizzie through Mr
Courtney ; but he did not tell her that
Henri de Courcelles had been arrested
as one of the mutineers. He knew that
she had regarded his late overseer with
affection, and he wanted to spare her the
pain of the suspense of learning his fate.
It would be time enough, he thought,
for her to mourn when her friend had
been tried and condemned. But his kind
consideration was wasted, for the news
came to her by means of the yellow girl,

Rosa, who burst Into her presence on
the day of De Courcelles' escape from
the Fort prison, brim full of the intelligence.


Oh, Missy Liz ! car's grand news
come from Government House. De Fort
prison doors is bust open, and dey's all
gone — ebbery one of dem mutineers, and
Massa Courcelles, he gone wit them.'

Monsieur de Courcelles I ' exclaimed
Lizzie, hardly believing her ears. ' What
are you talking of, Rosa ? '

'Tes' God's truth, Missy Liz. Massa
Courcelles de ringleader ob all de mutiny
dat's what William Hall, dat hab ses'
come from de Fort, say ; and dey take
him prisoner ob Tuesday night, and put
him in cell, and dis morning he was to
be tried by 'martial ; but he's clean gone,
and de mounted police am scouring San
Diego for him.'

De Courcelles amongst the rebels ! '
repeated Lizzie. ' This, then, is what
he meant by his revenge. Oh, that it
had been in my power to save him from
falling so low ! '

But dat ain't all, Missy Liz ; dere's
more to come. William Hall say de
police catch sight of Massa Courcelles
over de gully, close by Shanty Hill,
and he 'scape them again, and run
straight for de Alligator Swamp.'

'He did not enter it?' cried Lizzie,
turning pale.

Oh, didn't he, though ? De police
gallop after him, and he run same like
deer, and jump ,de fences, and go squash
right in de swamp, where de bosses
couldn't follow him, 'cause of de morass.
And William say when Massa
Courcelles get on edge of swamp, he
turn and wave his hand, and hollo, and

dive In bushes. And den de police see
no more of him ; but dey is waiting
dere now, horses and all, till he come
out again. But Massa Courcelles nebber
come out again, Missy Liz. Dat what
all de niggers say ; alligator and swamp
take him pretty quick, and got him now,
maybe, de bad fellow ! '

Lizzie did not answer her chattering
handmaid, except by asking, —

What time is it, Rosa ? '

Tes' gone tree, Missy Liz.'

And when did this happen ? I mean
when did the police lose sight of Monsieur
de Courcelles in the Alligator
Swamp ? '

Eleven o'clock, missy.'

Four hours' said Lizzie to herself.
God help him ! What can I do ? '

She began turning over the contents
of a medicine-chest as she thought thus,

and pouring the liquid from one bottle
into the other, in an apparently mechanical
manner.

Rosa ! ' she said suddenly, turning to
her open-eyed attendant, ' I am going
out presently, and I may be detained
longer than I anticipate. Take great
care of baby whilst I am away, and
put her to sleep in your own room
to-night. Do you understand me ? '

Yes, yes, Missy Liz.'

She watched her mistress array herself
in her walking things, and take
down a broad sombrero hat, and a long
cloak, which had belonged to her father,
from the cupboard where they hung,
and place brandy and a bottle of quinine,
and strong smelling-salts and camphor
in the basket she hung upon her arm.
These proceedings only excited Rosa's
curiosity ; but when Lizzie went on to

load a revolver and place it in her
belt, and take a huge staff in her hand,
the yellow girl could contain herself no
longer, but cried out, —

Oh, Missy Liz, Missy Liz ! what
you going to do with all dem things ? '

Dare I trust you ? ' said Lizzie,
turning her grave, pale face towards her.
Will you be faithful and keep my
secret if I tell you what I am going
to do ? '

Missy Liz, / will !' replied Rosa
solemnly. ' I knows I'se berry bad gal
to you once. I said dreadful things what
I didn't mean ; but I'se only ignorant
yellow gal, Mis Liz, and I didn't think
how bad I was. But Massa Norris, he
make me promise when he go 'way
that I'd be good faithful servant to you,
and take great care of you, and he'd
bring me lubly dress from England

next time he come ; and I would do it,
Missy Liz, without de dress, and only
because I love you for all you done
for me.'

I believe you, and I will confide in
you, for I must have a friend to help
me. Rosa, I am going to the Alligator
Swamp to try and find Monsieur de
Courcelles.'

De Alligator Swa77zp /' Oh, Missy
Liz ! you nebber going there ? You
can't walk dere for de swamp, nor de
thorn bushes ; and de green slime ahab
a smell what chokes you. Missy,' continued
Rosa earnestly, ' even a nigger
can't stay dere. You will lose your
way directly — dere's no path to guide
you ; and de alligators is awful. Dey kill
you directly dey see you. Oh, Missy
Liz, for God's sake, don't try to go ! '

Listen to me, dear Rosa. / must

go! It is of no use to try and stop
me. Monsieur de Courcelles has been
very wicked, no doubt — I don't defend
his conduct — but once I loved him Rosa,
and a woman can never quite forget
the man she has loved.'

No, dat's true, missy. Juan want
me to marry him, but I keep thinking
too much ob that rascal sailor boy what
was de fader of my poor leetel Carlo —
Dat's truth,' answered Rosa, shaking
her black curls.

Well then, perhaps you can understand
a little what I feel now, Rosa.
Monsieur de Courcelles is in fearful
danger. I know his spirit. He will
never come out of the swamp to be taken
prisoner again. He will faint from the
fumes of the fearful miasma first, and
sink for ever in the morass, or he
will cast himself before the first cayman

In his path. I may not find him, or
I may be too late to give him any
assistance, but I must try. I have the
proper medicines here to counteract the
effect of the swamp, for him and myself;
and if I find him, I think with this
disguise I may get him safely out again
without attracting the notice of the
police. I shall not go by Shanty
Hill, Rosa. I shall make my way
round by the Miners' Gulch. There is
an entrance there at the back of the
Sans Souci plantation.'

And if you find him. Missy Liz — what
den ? ' inquired the yellow girl.

Ah, Rosa ! that is where I shall want
your assistance and your fidelity,' replied
her mistress. * If I find him, I must bring
him here, and hide him from the police
until I can get him safely away from
the island.'

Dat berry dangerous work, Missy
Liz.'

I know it, but how can I do otherwise
? Could I let the man whom I once
believed would be my husband, perish in
the Alligator Swamp, without an attempt
to rescue him ; or deliver him up to die
a murderers death upon the gallows,
as long as I can keep him from it ? '
Oh, Rosa, Rosa!' cried Lizzie, weeping,
' it is the same with all of us, white
and black alike. Love — although a love
that is dead and over — sanctifies everything,
and claims a certain duty even
for its ashes.'

The yellow girl did not understand
her mistress's words, but her tears appealed
to her heart, and she cried with
her.

Yes, Missy Liz, I understand. Dat's
ses' same like me and de sailor fellow.

But you must take great care of yourself,
Missy Liz. You must be berry 'titular
where you step, and how you go, and
keep a sharp look-out for de alligators.
Dey berry cowardly. Missy Liz. Dey
frightened of noise, and dey can't run
no ways ; so if you don't tread right
on dem, you're all right.'

Yes, yes, Rosa ! I know that, and
I will take every possible caution,' replied
Lizzie. And then she kissed the
baby, and kissed Rosa, and walked
bravely off, as though she had been
going on her daily rounds.

The Alligator Swamp was situated ina
deep gorge or valley between two high
hills, and was simply a stagnant bog,
thickly clothed with poisonous vegetation —
indeed no healthy trees or bushes could
have existed in such an atmosphere. The
fatal upas tree spread its thick branches

over the morass, sheltering deadly fungi
of orange, and red, and white. Thorny
bushes were matted and interlaced about
it, so that had there been a solid
foundation to the Alligator's Swamp,
it would have been impossible to
force one's way through, or find a path
whereon to tread. The only resting-place
for one's feet consisted of the
logs and trunks of decayed trees, which
had dropped, rolling into the slime, and
choked it up. But they were treacherous
paths, as may be well imagined, and it
was difficult, in the semi-darkness, to
distinguish them from the carmen — the
largest and fiercest breed of alligators —
from which the swamp derived its name.
These creatures lay on the top of the
slimy deposit, just like rugged brown
logs in appearance, until a sound or a
touch caused the apparently inert mass

to move, and a ferocious head, with
two diamond bright eyes, and an enormous
mouth, with cruel fangs, rose up
suddenly and snapt its jaws over its
unsuspecting prey. For there was no
real daylight in the Alligator Swamp.
The branches of the trees were so
thickly interlaced overhead that the sun
had no chance to penetrate them and
cleanse the Augean Stable with his
health-giving rays ; and so the decaying
vegetation and the slime had festered on
together for years past, and the carmen
had bred and flourished there, until
the boldest negro of them all considered
it certain death to breathe
the air which they inhaled. If the
foolhardy creature who attempted to
traverse the swamp were not immersed
in the stinking mud, or seized by the
hungry alligators, he was bound after a

VOL. III. M

little while to sink down, giddy and
intoxicated from inhaling the various
poisons around him, and so fall a prey
to either one or the other. Lizzie
Fellows was perfectly conscious of the
terrible risk she ran, — more so, perhaps,
than most women would have been, for
her father had fully explained the dangers
of the swamp to her, and warned her
off its precincts. She knew that the
reason runaway negroes and escaped
prisoners took refuge in the Alligator
Swamp was not because they sought
safety in it, but because they preferred
death by its horrors to giving themselves
up to the law. They knew they
went to their grave when they entered
it, but they knew also that the police
would refuse to follow them there, and
that they would be left to die alone
and unmolested. She had a long walk

to take before she reached it. She was
anxious to meet no one who should
inquire her errand, or try to prevent
it, and so she took a circuitous route to
Sans Souci, and crept round the back
of the plantation until she came to a
clump of dense underwood, through
which she knew a path led to the fatal
spot. She tied a handkerchief steeped
in some disinfectant across her mouth
and nostrils as she entered it, and
then, with a short prayer to God for
protection and success, went bravely on.
She carried a knife in her hand, with
which she sliced the bark of the trees
as she walked along, for she was afraid
of losing her way altogether, and perhaps
never finding the sunlight again ; but for
the first few minutes the Alligator Swamp
seemed to be a harmless place enough.
The grass beneath her feet was bright

and green, from the humidity of the
atmosphere and the shade of the trees,
but the first indication of danger was
given by her foot suddenly sinking in
wet soil up to her ankle. She drew
it back quickly, and commenced to walk
more slowly, and tapping the ground
before her with the stout stick she held
in her hand, before she ventured to tread
on it. Her heart beat fast at times
as a rustle in the bushes betrayed the
presence of a rattlesnake — about the only
living thing that shared the swamp with
the alligators — or a splash in the surrounding
vegetation proved she was
approaching the haunts of the carmen.
Still she went on, picking her way over
the morass, or skirting it by means of
the rotten trunks that lay across it, and
swayed and rolled as she mounted them,
as if they would give way beneath her

weight, and let her fall into the slimy
pool they floated on. Soon she began to
feel the effects of the mephitic vapours
with which the place abounded, and had
recourse to her smelling-salts, to prevent
her becoming giddy. All this time Lizzie
had kept up a continual note from a
whistle she had hung about her neck,
and at intervals she had called upon
Henri de Courcelles by name. As she
advanced to the centre of the swamp
the daylight seemed to be entirely excluded,
and she lighted a lantern which
was tied at her girdle. With her staff
in one hand and her revolver in the
other she now began to pick her way
step by step, her heart sinking with
fear and disappointment as she went.
For not a sound came in answer to her
whistle or her call. The profoundest
silence reigned in the Alligator Swamp.

The stench of the decaying vegetation
was more and more apparent, and the
only hight by which she walked was
the feeble glimmer thrown In advance
from the little lantern at her waist. It
was a situation to appal the bravest
spirit. Once she stepped forward almost
confidently, and placed her foot
on a broad bridge, formed, as she
believed, of the corrugated trunk of a
fallen tree, but as she touched It It
sank beneath the slime, and rose again
Immediately with two fierce twinkling
eyes and an open jaw full of pointed
teeth, to confront her.

Lizzie flew backward with a scream of
terror, and, clinging with one arm to
the branch of a tree, discharged her
revolver full In the reptile's face. The
bullet was probably battered against Its
impervious hide, but thf^ shot had the

desired effect of friofhteninof the alligator
back into its home of some. It had
another, and more unforeseen effect. It
reached the senses of an almost unconscious
man, who had sudden into a
sitting position beside some bushes, buta
few yards off, and rouse him from his
sleep of death. The sound of the shot
conveyed but one idea to his mind, however,
— that his pursuers had penetrated his
asylum, and were close at hand to capture
him ; and with the intention to defy them
to the last, he staggered to his feet, and
set his back against a tree. The tall
figure clothed in white became apparent
in the surrounding twilight, and when
Lizzie raised her eyes from the spot
where the cayman had disappeared from
view, it was to fix them on the form
of Henri de Courcelles. She uttered
a cry of pleasure at the discovery,

which sounded to him like a note of
victory.

Stand off! ' he exclaimed loudly ; ' shoot
me like a man if you will, but don't
attempt to touch me with your accursed
fingers, or I will dive into the swamp
and escape you.'

He was about to put his suicidal threat
into execution, when Lizzie stepped quickly
across the yielding earth which separated
them, and stood by his side.

Henri ! ' she ejaculated, as she clutched
at his clothes with her hand and held him
back.

He turned and stared at her.

Lizzie ! ' was all he could say.

Yes, it is I,' she answered simply.

At that his senses appeared to return
to him. His astonishment at seeing
her was so great, that he pulled
himself together, as a drunken man

will sometimes do, under special circumstances.


Lizzie — here ! ' he repeated. ' But what
made you come to such a place '^. Do
you know that you are courting certain
death, and that every moment may be
your last ? Go back at once ! Don't stay
here another instant! You were mad
to think of such a thing.'

I am going back, and at once,' she
answered quickly, ' but you must come
with me.'

I cannot. The police are waiting forme
outside, and I will die here sooner
than deliver myself into their hands.'

She disengaged the wallet of medicines
which she had carried on her back, and,
pouring out a mixture of brandy and
quinine, held it to his lips.

Drink this, Henri, and listen to me.
I have come here expressly to find you

and save you, and you must trust yourself
to me. The police shall not take
you. They are waiting by Shanty
Hill, and I know a secret outlet by
Miners' Gulch. But we must leave this
pestiferous atmosphere at once, or it maybe
fatal to both of us.'

He clung to her like a child to its
mother.

You can save me ! ' he exclaimed. * Oh,
my good angel ! why did I ever desert
you?'

Hush ! Don't speak of that now.
Think of nothing excepting the best
means to get out of this dreadful place.
Drink some more brandy, and inhale
this ammonia. That is right. Pull yourself
together, and follow me closely. I
will go first, and lead the way.'

She pulled him forward as she spoke,
and mechanically he followed her. Step

by step they went, very slowly and
cautiously at first, and then faster, as the
dusky twilight spread itself out, and the
gleams of sunshine penetrated at intervals
the dense foliage, and turned its neutral
tints into living green. On they went,
she in front with her staff and revolver,
and he, behind, only half comprehending
what had occurred to him, until they
reached the thicket which abutted on
the Sans Souci plantation, where he sank
down upon the grass, with a low moan
of exhaustion. Lizzie was busy with
her wallet directly. She had anticipated
that as soon as the excitement was over
he would succumb to the strain he had
passed through — for the Spanish Creoles
have not strong constitutions, and had
provided the necessary remedies against
it. It was some little time before Henri
de Courcelles fairly understood what had

happened to him, and then his gratitude
knew no bounds.

Am I really safe, and with you ? '
he murmured. ' What have I done to
deserve such goodness at your hands ? '

You are clear of that terrible swamp,
Henri ; but you are not by any means
safe yet ; and if you would be, you must
follow out my instructions to the letter.
See here! I have an old cloak and
sombrero which belonged to my poor
father. I left them under this tree when
I entered the swamp. We will wait here
quietly until it is a little darker, and then
you must put them on, and come home
to the bungalow with me, and I will conceal
you there until you can find some
means of leaving San Diego.'

But how will that be possible, Lizzie ?
The bills must be out by this time, putting
a price upon my head, and every

nigger in the island will be turned into
an amateur detective, in the hope of being
able to claim the reward.'

Oh, don't let us think of that now ! '
replied Lizzie wearily. ' The chief thing
at present is to restore your vitality. It
is a blessing you are still alive, Henri.
Eat and drink what I have brought for
you, and thank God you can do it in
safety. Nothing will harm you here.'

And you actually came in search of
me, alone and unprotected ? ' he said,
looking at her with the deepest admiration.
' You braved the dangers of this
awful place, — ran the risk of a terrible
death, and all for me —-for me, who have
treated you so badly ! Oh, hlzzle, continued
Henri de Courcelles, seizing her
hand, ' if the devotion of the life you
have rescued can atone to you, it will.'

But she drew her hand away hastily —

almost with repugnance — from his clasp.
Was it not that of a would-be murderer ?
Henri she replied quietly, though
her voice shook, ' you must never speak
to me again like that I have done what
you say, and I thank Heaven, who has
crowned my efforts with success ; but it
was done for the sake of the Past, not
of the Present; and nothing in the Future,
except the knowledge that your life has
been saved for better things, can ever
repay me. I have been shocked beyond
measure at what I have heard concerning
you. You have steeped your hands,
or would have done so, in the blood of
innocent victims, for the sake of carrying
out an unworthy revenge on the
daughter of your benefactors. It was a
crime which would make any honest
person shrink from you, which would
make most people consider that a death

on the gallows, or in the Alligator
Swamp, was your just deserts. But I
cannot forget, Henri. Ever since I have
known your relations with my adopted
sister, I have ceased to desire your affection
; but I cannot forget that I once
valued it, and to think of your being
sent out of the world without the opportunity
to repent, was very terrible tome.
That is why I have run this risk
to save you, and why I am thankful I
have succeeded. But don't speak of love
to me again, or you may make me sorry
instead of glad.'

There was a calm, reasonable determination
in her voice as she spoke, that
brought conviction home to Henri de
Courcelles' mind. He saw it plainly now.
He had not only lost her love, — he had
forfeited her respect and her esteem ;
and as the truth smote home to

him, the unwonted tears rose to his

eyes.

Why didn't you leave me in the
swamp ? ' he murmured. * I had better
have remained there, to become the prey
of the alligators, than Hve under your
contempt. Let me go back,' he continued,
starting to his feet, ' for your
words have taken all my courage out of
me, and I would rather die a thousand
deaths by my own hand than fall into
those of my enemies, and swing like a
malefactor from the Fort gates.'

'You shall do neither!' exclaimed Lizzie,
as she caught his arm, and drew him
down to her side again. ' Come, Henri,
be reasonable. Remember I am your
friend, and have thought out the whole
plan of your escape. Put on this cloak
and sombrero. See how completely they
disguise you, and cover you from head

to foot. The only thing we have to
dread now is lest some acquaintance
should meet and question me ; but that
is very unlikely, as this is the general
dinner hour for all Europeans, and I
will take you home by an unfrequented
path.'

But when I reach your bungalow,
Lizzie, what will Rosa say ? '

I have been obliged to take Rosa
into my confidence, Henri, but she will
not betray you. As for the rest, leave
it to me, and I believe that, with
Heaven's aid, I can bring you out of
this strait.'

'You are too good to me,' he said
brokenly ; ' and I place myself altogether
in your hands. Lead on, Lizzie, as you
think best, and I will follow.'

No, Henri ; we will walk side by
side. It will be much better, in case of

VOL. III. N

an encounter with any one who knows
us, that I should show a perfect fearlessness
in the matter. Take my staff
in your hand, and sling the wallet across
your shoulder. Then we shall look as
if we had been searching the country
for herbs for medicinal purposes ; and I
will gather a bundle of leaves, in order
to carry out the delusion. That is right.
Now come with me, and let us step out
manfully together.'

They traversed the couple of miles
that lay between them and Beauregard,
without encountering anything more formidable
than a few negroes sauntering
along the road as they returned from
work. But as they approached the
plantation, the danger of discovery became
more imminent, and Lizzie conducted
her companion to her bungalow
by a circuitous route.

It was reached at last, however, and
as De Courcelles sank into one of the
familiar chairs in the sitting-room, he
fel Hke a man who has been delivered
from the very jaws of death to be suddenly
transported into paradise.

But you must not rest here, Henri,'
whispered Lizzie, as she quickly closed
all the jalousies. * Mr Courtney or one
of the hands might enter at any moment.
There would be continual risk of
discovery.'

Where, then ? ' he demanded, in the
same tone.

In my dear father's bedroom. It has
never been opened since his death, and
you are not likely to be disturbed there.
You know what these silly, superstitious
natives are. They would not enter a
chamber where a death has occurred, to
save their lives. They would be fearful

of encountering my dear father's
wraith. You see now my object in
dressing you up in his cloak and hat.
If any of our negroes had seen you, he
would probably have run shrieking to
his hut, to spread the report that the
Doctor's ghost was walking about
Beauregard. You must remember to
keep up the idea, should any unforeseen
risk occur. But here, for a few days at
least, I believe you will be safe,' continued
Lizzie, as she unlocked the door
of her late father's apartment, ' until I
can get you away from the island. You
will have to be my prisoner,' she added
playfully ; ' and I shall lock you in, and
bring you your meals at the stated
times. But keep the jalousies bolted
inside night and day, and try to do
with as little light as possible, to avoid
attracting attention. You will find all

my dear father's wardrobe in the cupboard
here. Use it as you think best,
and try and be contented under the
restraint, and thankful (as I am) that
Heaven has spared your Hfe to you.'

He turned round as he crossed the
threshold, and sank on his knees before
her.

You have forbidden me to speak of
love,' he ejaculated, ' but I must say something
to express my gratitude. You have
indeed heaped coals of fire on my head !
You have done what no other living
creature, male or female, would have done ;
you have risked your life and safety forme,
who have treated you worse than anyone
else. Let me say Heaven bless you
for it, Lizzie. I feel if there is a hell
beyond the one we suffer here, that mine
will be to remember always the terrible
mistake I made in allowing a woman's

personal beauty to blind me to the virtues
of the friend whom I now feel I
have loved and honoured above all the
world.'

He took her hand and kissed it as he
spoke, and Lizzie was not ashamed to let
her tears fall freely on them both.

I am glad now, Henri,' she uttered
falteringly, ' and I shall be glad in the
days to come to think over the words you
have just said, and to remember that you
knew me for your true friend. There are
different kinds of love from the one we
once thought we felt for each other —
and perhaps better ones — and something
of the sort I shall never cease to feel for
you. And if you think you owe me
gratitude, Henri — if you would repay me
let it be by abandoning all ideas of revenge
and murder for the future. Don't let me
have the terrible self-reproach that I have

wasted my affection on one so utterly unworthy
of it.'

I have taken a different oath, Lizzie,
but I will rescind it, for your sake, and
here on my knees I swear to you that
if I am spared to escape the gallows, I
will abandon all ideas of revenge in the
future. After all, Maraquita is but a
false woman, not worthy of a man's
revenge. There are dozens such : the
world is peopled with them.'

She is the woman you loved, Henri,'
replied Lizzie gravely, ' and therefore she
is the woman you should always be most
lenient to. But she has passed out of
your world, and the kindest thing you
can do for her and yourself is to forget
her. But you must not talk of such
exciting topics to-night. It may be sometime
before you shake off the effects of
the poisonous vapours you have inhaled.

Go to rest now, and sleep without fear.
I will guarantee that no one shall disturb
your slumbers.'

De Courcelles took her advice, and
flung himself, exhausted through excitement
and fatigue, upon the late Doctor's
bed, whilst she, with a divine light, almost
akin to maternal solicitude, upon her
countenance, took a seat in the outer room,
and prepared to watch all night against
a possible surprise for the man she held
prisoner.

UT from that moment Lizzie
had not a moment's peace.
She dreaded everything and
everybody. Each casual visitor she believed
to be a spy, and the appearance
of a friend made her think that the
hour of discovery had come. Rosa made
her a thousand promises of fidelity, but
the yellow girl, though devoted to her
mistress's interests, was, after all, very
much like other women, and found it a
hard task to hold her tongue. The
whole time she was employed in exercising
the baby in the plantation,

was a season of torture to Lizzie, who
pictured her confiding the whole story
to her most intimate friend, under a
promise of inviolable secrecy. Meanwhile
Henri de Courcelles, though confined
to one room during the day time,
and only venturing out after dark by
means of the window, and with a disguise
on, was passing a fairly pleasant
time. The two women fed him royally,
and waited on him like servants, and
he held several conferences with Lizzie
as to the possibility of his getting down
to the Fort by night, and embarking
as a seaman on board one of the
Spanish crafts that lay in the bay of
San Diego. They would have carried
this plan, of which they had arranged
all the minutes together, into effect at
once, had it not been deemed advisable
that De Courcelles should lie perdtt

until It might be supposed by the
authorities that their prisoner had perished
beyond all doubt in the Alligator
Swamp. As soon as the guard of
mounted police who watched for him
outside the swamp was withdrawn, Lizzie
and De Courcelles decided that his first
attempt at an escape from the Island
should be made. He had been concealed
In the bungalow for two days
when Mr Courtney walked In one
morning and took a seat beside Lizzie.
The planter looked worn and anxious,
and as he removed his hat, and passed
his handkerchief across his brow, he
seemed to have grown older of late,
notwithstanding the brilliant marriage
that his daughter had made. The
words with which he opened the conversation,
had reference to Maraqulta.
Sir Russell and Lady Johnstonee have

come to stay with us at the White House,
Lizzie

Indeed, sir,' she replied. ' I suppose
Quita is nervous of staying at
Government House, after what happened
there last week. And I don't wonder
at it, poor girl ! I should be glad to
hear that the Governor had decided
to take her to England.'

So should we, my dear, and they
will go before long — there is no doubt
of that — only, it would hardly do for
the Governor to run away whilst the
island is in this state of ferment. But
he judged rightly in thinking that our
dear Maraquita would feel safer and
happier with her parents, and in her
old home. For she has received a
terrible shock, Lizzie, and it is telling
on her visibly. She seems ten years
older to me.'

Poor Ouita, she cannot fail to feel
it,' replied Lizzie, looking at the matter
in a totally different light from that
in which Mr Courtney regarded it.

Yes, and I wish I could think that
there was no further reason for her
fears. Lizzie, I have come here this
morning for one purpose only, — to persuade
you to return with me to the
White House.'

Lizzie started, and coloured.

Oh, Mr Courtney, I cannot. I
don't know why you want me there,
but unless it is in my capacity as
medical adviser, I must refuse. You
forget that Mrs Courtney ordered me
never to show my face there again.'

I can allow no feminine quarrels to
interfere with your safety, Lizzie ; and
it is to secure that that I beg of you
to take up your residence at my

house until these mutinous ideas have
been knocked out of the coolies
heads. I do not feel that you are
safe, — that we are, any of us, safe.
I begin to distrust even my own
hands, for whom I have done all in
my power.'

Mr Courtney, I appreciate your
kindness, but there are too many
reasons why I cannot accept it.'

Name them, my dear.'

I have named one already, sir.
Another is my infant charge. Do
you suppose I would desert here's'

Bring her with you. There is room
in the White House for us all.'

No, Mr Courtney,' she answered
proudly, ' it is impossible, I will not
take the child under the roof of the
very woman who has falsely accused
me of being its mother.'

But I am sure, Lizzie, that neither my
wife nor Maraquita really believe that story.'
And I am sure of it too, sir ; but
that only places their cruelty to mein
a more heinous light. Forgive me
for saying it, Mr Courtney, before you,
who have always been so good to me
and my poor father, but I will never
again place myself voluntarily in the
society of either Mrs Courtney or
Maraquita, until they have publicly acknowledged
that they have done mea
foul wrong.'

They have been very hard on you,'
sighed the planter ; ' but their conduct
cannot blind me to my duty. I cannot
consent to your remaining here,
Lizzie. The negroes may rise at any
moment, and this bungalow is in the
very midst of their quarters. I have
received secret information concerning

them, that has seriously alarmed me.
The general disaffection has spread
much further than I dreamt of, and
even the hands on Beauregard are believed
to be ripe for rebellion. Were
they to take it into their heads to rise,
what would you do ? '

Lizzie laughed at the idea.

In that case, sir — did I believe it
possible (which I can hardly do) that
your coolies could so utterly forget all
they owe to you — I should be much
safer here than in the White House.
Why should they harbour any resentment
against me ? They loved my dear
father, and I believe they love me for
his sake, and / have nothing to do
with their fancied causes for complaint.
If they do rise, which God forbid, it
will be the White House against which
they will make a raid.'

Ah, my dear child, long as you
have lived amongst them, you do not
know the negro nature as I do. Once
roused, he becomes a devil, and has no
power of distinguishing between friends
and foes. This bungalow will be the
first piece of my property which they
will have the opportunity of destroying,
and I feel sure they will not spare
it, nor perhaps even you. lizzie, I
beg, I implore of you to accept my
offer of protection, and transport yourself,
and all you value, to the White
House.'

But Lizzie was firm. She quailed a
little before the possible picture Mr
Courtney had conjured up, — before the
remembrance too of certain words of
Captain N orris, in which he had expressed
his own fears for her safety ;
but they had no power to alter her

VOL. III. o

determination. There was her poor
prisoner in the next room to them.
Guilty as he had proved himself to be,
she had promised him her protection,
and she would stand by him to the
last, even if they were doomed to perish
together. So she only shook her head,
and smiled, and continued stitching at
her work.

Your obstinacy is incredible to me,'
said Mr Courtney, half angrily, * and you
put me in a very unpleasant position.
I promised your father (as far as I
could) to supply his place to you. I
look on you as second only to my
own child, yet you refuse to accept
from me a father's protection, or to yield
me the obedience of a daughter.'

I am sorry to appear ungrateful to
you, Mr Courtney, but I have my own
reasons for remaining in my own home,

and your arguments have no power to
shake them. Pray don't be under any
further apprehension for me — I have
none for myself ; and if your workers are
disposed to mutiny, it is all the more
reason that I should remain amongst
them, and try to bring them to a better
frame of mind.'

Ah, I have heard of your attempts
in that direction already, Lizzie, and
that the coolies call you the angel of
Beauregard ! You are a good girl, my
dear, and may God reward you for all
you have done. I am only sorry that
fortuitous circumstances should have
laid this burden of secrecy upon you.
But cheer up ; the day will come, perhaps,
when it will be removed as unexpectedly
as it appeared. And no one
shall rejoice more when that day comes
than I shall, Lizzie.'

She sighed, but she answered nothing.
She knew that if the day he spoke of
ever dawned, it would be to bow her
benefactors head with shame.

And so all my entreaties are in vain .^ *
said Mr Courtney, as he rose to go.

Yes, sir ; I shall remain here ; and
honestly, I do not believe you have any
cause for fear.'

Yet she pondered over what he had
told her all that day, not from any dread
of her own safety, but endeavouring to
think of some plan for getting Henri
de Courcelles away before there was
any possibility of his detection. For
she felt that if the coolies on Beauregard
did rise, and proceed to incendiarism or
slaughter, Henri de Courcelles, who had
been their tyrannical master in the days
gone by, and their inciter to rebellion in
the present, would be the first victim of

their lawless passions. Her mind was
still running on the same subject when
the evening shadows closed, and Hugh
N orris unexpectedly walked into the
room.

Her first feeling at seeing him was
one of such unmitigated pleasure, that
she could not help betraying it.

Oh, Hugh — I mean, Captain Norris,'
she exclaimed, * are you really back
again ? I am so glad — I didn't think —
I was afraid that — ' and here she stopped,
blushing for her incoherency.

Are you really glad ? ' he said, taking
her hand, and warmly pressing it, whilst
his open countenance revealed his emotion.
* Have you felt my absence, Lizzie ?
Have our two months of separation
stretched themselves out to their full
term ? '

Indeed they have,' she answered ingenuously.

' I have been counting the
days till you should return. For we
have passed through a terrible time since
you left us. But perhaps you have
already heard of it.'

Indeed I have heard of it, Lizzie,'
he said gravely, * and I thank God that
it was no worse. What should I have
done had you been involved in this
horrible catastrophe ? But I am here,
and you are safe, and I will not leave
San Diego again until I take you with
me. Was I not right in my forebodings
? '

Partially so ; but you see that no one
has harmed me yet. What a quick
passage you have made this time, Captain
Norris.'

Very quick ; but you may imagine
that I wasted no more time in England
than I could help, Lizzie. I was not

out of sight of San Diego before I was
longing to get back again, and, thanks
to favourable winds, and an obliging
supercargo, I have made the double
passage in as short a time as is possible.
But I found time to accomplish
my heart's desire, all the same.'

What was that ? ' she demanded
curiously.

Do you remember the packet of
letters you threw me to read when we
last said good-bye, and you had to run
off to attend to some woolly infant or
other ? '

Yes, yes, I remember. It was
Mammy Chloe's baby,' she answered,
laughing.

The first letter I opened surprised
me more than anything has ever done
in my life before. It was from your
late father to Mr Courtney, and he

signed himself " Herbert Ruthin," and
wrote in familiar terms of his father
and mother, Sir William and Lady
Ruthin, and of their place in Scotland
Aberdare

'Well, well! of course; it was his own
home,' interrupted Lizzie impatiently.
Why should it have so greatly surprised
you ? '

Because, Lizzie, my mother (whose
maiden name was Mary Herbert) is a
second or third cousin of Lady Ruminant
when her ladyship came to Maidstone,
which is close to mother's home, a few
years ago, she called on us, and took
dinner at the cottage.'

Oh, Hugh, how very, very strange!'
cried Lizzie, forgetting etiquette in her
breathless surprise.

Yes, it is only another proof of how
small the world is, and how we are all

but one large family. I remembered Lady
Ruthin's visit to my mother distinctly,
and also that I had heard she had had
orreat trouble about her second son
Herbert, but I fancied he was dead.
When I learnt the truth from those letters,
I determined to see Sir William and
Lady Ruthin on my return to England,
and I did so.'

'You did!' echoed Lizzie; 'and, oh!
what did they say ? '

I was only at Aberdare two hours,
dearest,' replied Captain N orris, growing
bolder as he gained his advantage, ' but
it was long enough to serve my purpose.
I told them everything, Lizzie, — what a
good life your dear father had lived here,
expiating his youthful error by a course
of self-abnegation, and how like a martyr
he had died, stricken down by the exhaustion
consequent on his labours for

others. And I soon found that if their
pride and mortification have prevented
their speaking of their lost son for so
many years past, it has not been because
the love of him has faded from their hearts.
They concluded he was dead long ago,
but as I spoke of him, they were both
melted into tears, and reproached themselves
bitterly for not having employed
stronger measures to ascertain his fate.'

My poor darling father ! ' exclaimed
Lizzie, weeping ; ' how I wish he could
have had the comfort of knowing that
his parents felt for him.'

Doubtless he knows it now, dear.
But my story is not done yet, Lizzie.
When I had told Sir William and Lady
Ruthin all I knew about your father,
I spoke of you, and their excitement
became painful to witness. They are
longing to see you, my dear, and makeup

to you for all you have suffered on
account of your poor father's exile. I
am the bearer of a letter from them
begging you at once to return to England
and place yourself under their protection.
I shall see you in your proper position
at last, Lizzie, and reaping the reward
you so richly deserve. I cannot tell
you how proud and happy I feel to
have been made the instrument of this
change in your destinies.'

Lizzie looked up at him gratefully.

It was so good of you to think of
it,' she murmured ; ' but I can hardly
believe it yet. My dear father's parents !
They will seem like part of himself tome,
and especially if they cherish his
memory. And I shall owe it all to
you. What can I do for you in return,
Hugh?'

Only one thing, dear. Let me take

you back to England, and present you

to your grandparents as my wife.'

Did you — did you — say anything to
them about it ? ' she asked timidly.

Well, I gave them a hint on the
subject,' he answered, laughing; 'as far,
that is to say, as / am concerned — I
could not answer for you, you know,
because you have not yet answered for
yourself.'

And how did they take it ? '

They were good enough to say
that they would make no objection
whatever to me as your husband, provided
I gave up the sea and kept you
on dry land. And Sir William promised,
moreover, in that case, to help
me to obtain suitable employment. And
so you see, my dear, the conclusion
of the matter rests with you. What
is your answer ?'

She saw the deep hie honest eyes
gazing fondly into her own, and had
just placed her hand in his preparatory
to saying ' Yes,' when a loud unmistakable
cough sounded from the inner
room.

'What is that?' exclaimed Hugh
N orris, starting to his feet, his senses
always acutely alive to possible danger.
There is some one in your father's
bedroom. Stand aside, Lizzie, and let
me see who it is.'

He seized his stick — his only weapon
as he spoke, and was about to try the
locked door. But she interposed herself
between him and it.

You cannot enter that room, Captain
N orris. It is fastened.'

Then some one — a mutineer, perhaps
must have got in by the window* I
am certain my ears did not deceive

me. The sound we heard proceeded
from that room, and I must satisfy
myself on the subject.'

He was about to pass her, when she
put out her hand to prevent him, and
he observed how very pale and strained
her face (but a few moments ago so smiling)
had suddenly become.

Captain N orris, I hold this room
sacred to myself, and neither you, nor
any man, shall cross the threshold.'

He looked full at her then in his
amazement, and the truth seemed to
flash suddenly upon him.

You have been deceiving me ! ' he exclaimed
; * you have some one concealed
there whom you are ashamed to tell
me of! Who is it?' he continued, ina
low voice, which threatened danger, —
'that blackguard De Courcelles, who
would have slaughtered every European

In the Fort, if he had had his way, and
whom I hear has been in hiding ever
since ? '

Lizzie was silent. Twice her mouth
opened to utter a He in the defence of her
former lover, and twice it died unuttered
on her lips. Hugh N orris knew her too
well to misinterpret her want of courage.
He threw her one look of deep reproach,
and, turning away, sat down by the table,
and buried his face in his hands. Lizzie
could not withstand the action. She crept
after him, and laid her hand timidly upon
his shoulder.

Hugh,' she whispered, * Hugh — '

But he jerked the kindly touch away,
almost roughly.

Don't come near me.' he muttered,
Don't speak to me. You are false, and
you have destroyed all my faith In womankind.'


No, no, Hugh ! you shall not say
that of me. Listen, and I will tell you
everything. I should have told it you in
any case, for I sorely need your counsel
and advice, only we have had no time
as yet to speak of anyone but ourselves.
But you are good, and noble, and true,
and if you do not approve of my action,
you will at least not betray it. I will not
deceive you, and I think, when you know
all, you will acknowledge you would have
done the same. Henri De Courcelles is
in that room, a fugitive hiding from the
law ! No, don't look at me like that !
I call Heaven to witness he is not there
as my lover, but that I would have extended
the same succour to any fellow-creature
who threw himself upon my
mercy. Hugh ! I heard that he had
escaped from the Fort prison, and eluded
the pursuit of the police by taking refuge

in the Alligator Swamp. Could I have
left him there to perish by a miserable
death, without making one effort to save
him ? '

Captain N orris looked up at her in
amazement.

But what could you do ? ' he inquired.
Not a man in San Diego would venture
to penetrate the horrors of the swamp,
unless he wished to die.'

Yet a woman did,' she whispered.

lizzie, you do not mean to tell me
that you went yourself ? — that you risked
the awful dangers of the miasma and the
alligators, for the sake of this man, and
that you live to tell the tale ? '

The danger was not so great for meas
for another, Hugh, because I knew the
proper representatives to carry with me.
Anyway, I went, and I was successful. I
found this unhappy and misguided man

VOL. III. P

nearly unconscious from the effects of the
poisonous air he was inhaling, and I
brought him safely out of it, and have
hid him here for the last two days, until
I could devise some plan to get him away
from San Diego. Will you help me,
Hugh ? I know it is a great thing to
ask at your hands ; and I have not another
friend whom I would trust with
the secret ; but I shall not rest till I know
he is secure from suffering a malefactor's
death upon the gallows.'

He deserves it, Lizzie, if any one
ever did.'

I know it ! but if we all received our
deserts in this world, how badly we
should fare ! Hugh, you will believe me
when I tell you that such love as I
once entertained for Henri de Courcelles
is all past, and for ever. I see his character
in its true light at last, — as vindictive

and revengeful and untrue ! But
that does not alter the case that once
I thought him good enough to be my
husband, and mine is a heart that cannot
entirely forget ! '

What do you want me to do for
him, hlzziQ ? '

To get him down to the docks in
disguise, and ship him on board one of
the vessels there that are bound for
Spain or America. It would be cruel to
send him anywhere else. And if that
should be impossible to do all at once,
couldn't you let him stay on the Trevelyan
till you are able to send him
away ? ' continued Lizzie wistfully.

You ask me to do a very wrong and
dangerous thing, my dear, — to harbour
a rebel against the British Government,
and cheat the gallows of its just due.'

No, Hugh — to succour a wretched

fellow-creature, who was half driven to
madness by a woman's treachery, before
he dreamt of committing such a crime.
I cannot tell you all his story, but if
you knew it, you would pity him, as
I do

Nothing of the sort. I despise the
fool for having thrown away such a
heart as he had found in yours ! Why,
Lizzie ! you are a heroine, and the
noblest woman I ever met ! Well, and
suppose I become a traitor to my Queen
and country at your command, and help
this rascally lover of yours to escape
the ends of justice, what reward am I
to expect for the risk I shall run ? '

What reward do you want ? ' she
answered, smiling at him through her
tears. * You shall name it, Hugh, for I
see you are going to do this great and
generous thing for my sake, and hold

out a helping hand to your unfortunate
rival.'

Promise to become my wife, Lizzie !
Nothing short of that will quite satisfy
me of the purity of your benevolence for
De Courcelles — because I know your
nobility of character too well to think
you would ever bestow your hand on
one man whilst there was a remnant of
love left in your heart for another.'

You only do me justice there, Hugh ;
for if I am not true I am nothing.
Yes, I will be your wife, whenever you
choose to ask me, and (God helping mea
good and faithful one.'

And a loving one into the bargain ? '
he returned interrogatively. ' I will not
accept your hand without your heart,
Lizzie.'

Can any wife be good and faithful
if she is not loving, Hugh ? But

do not be afraid! / love you. Is that
enough ? *

Then come to my arms ! ' he exclaimed,
as he rose and held them out
to her. She was hesitating just a little,
not entirely from coyness, but because
it is so sweet to dally with our happiness
— when a low murmuring sound,
like the first menacing tones of thunder,
or the moaning of a sleuthhound when
it finds the trail, which evidently proceeded
from the negroes' quarters, made
them start asunder, and change colour.

What was that ? ' demanded Lizzie,
under her breath, as Hugh N orris
threw his arm round her for protection.

It is the groaning of a crowd,' he
answered. 'It is the first note of
mutiny. Lizzie, there is something
wrong ! For God's sake, let me take
you away from this.'

But she struggled to free herself.

If they are rising, Hugh, let me go to
them ! No one understands them as I
do ! Let me speak, and they will obey
me ! I can do with them as I like.'

But before he had time to put into
words his entreaty that she would resign
herself to his protection, a piercing
shriek seemed to rend the evening air,
and the next minute Rosa, the yellow
girl, rushed into the room, with Mara-quite's
infant in her arms.

Oh, Missy Liz,' she cried, ' what
have they done to my baby ? Dis
crowd of niggers is all crying' out for
dere rights, and down with de planters,
and I coming along, and dey pulled de
poor baby from my arms, and hit it onde
head with a stone. Oh, Missy Liz, I
couldn't help it ! I screamed to dem to
leave my poor baby alone ! But dey

call out 'tis Missy Quita's chile and
Massa Courcelles', and den dey strike
it again. And the baby's berry sick,
Missy Liz — berry sick, indeed,' continued
Rosa, weeping, and rocking the bundle
in her arms.

Give it to me,' said Lizzie calmly,
though her face was deathly white,
but not so white as that of Maraquita's
infant, which lay calm and peaceful in
the sleep of death, with a discoloured
bruise upon its little forehead, where
the cruel stone had struck it.

She is dead ! ' said Lizzie solemnly,
as she placed the body on the table.
She did not shed a tear as she did
so, but Hugh Norris, looking up at
her, marked the deep lines which suppressed
emotion had drawn upon her
forehead, and thought he had never
seen her look so stern before.

My poor little Mary,' she said, in a
low voice, as she gazed upon the infant's
dead form. ' This is the first-fruits
of the Beauregard rebellion, Hugh!
They have risen at last, and they will
not stop here ! What will become of
them all at the White House?'

We must give the alarm at once,'
said Captain Norris. * They may not
be prepared for this outbreak. But
Lizzie, I will not go and leave you
here ! If you wish your friends to
be put on their guard, you must come
with me.'

'It is too late,' she answered: 'they
are already upon us ! We should
only walk into their midst. Listen to
that— '

She held up her finger, and Captain
Norris could distinctly hear the yelling
of a mob of coolies advancing on the

plantation, and see the flaming torches
which they carried in their hands,
whilst in another moment two or three
random shots proved that they were
carrying firearms, and prepared to use
them.'

The devils ! ' cried N orris. ' Is it
possible they can have the heart to
injure you after all you have done
for them ? '

No, no, massa ! ' exclaimed the yellow
girl ; * coolies never hurting Missy Liz ;
they love her too much for dat. Only
dey want revenge on Massa Courtney
and de Governor and Missy Quita.
Missy Liz, dey will fire de White
House for sure, and kill de Governor !
Hark! they hab passed oder side of
plantation. Dey go by Oleander Bungalow
to de big house, and nebber
come near Missy Liz at all.'

They have come near enough,
in kilHng my poor baby ! ' exclaimed
Lizzie, weeping, as she kissed the dead
child. * If they love me, why couldn't
they have spared her ? '

'Cause she belong to dat De Courcelles,
and grow up bad like him and
Missy Quita. Dat what dem trashy
niggers say,' replied Rosa, joining her
sobs to those of her mistress.

'Is it possible this child belongs to
Lady Johnstonee ? ' demanded N orris.

'Oh, hush, Hugh ! don't mention it,
even here ! ' said Lizzie. ' I have kept
the secret for her sake — not his ! '

Oh, my brave girl, your love has
indeed earned the martyr's crown ! ' he
answered, looking at her with the
deepest admiration and respect. ' But
hark, Lizzie ! Surely the mob have
turned this way.'

At that moment a kind of sudden
rush through the darkness outside was
followed by the entrance of Mr and
Mrs Courtney, with Maraquita and Sir
Russell Johnstonee ! The women were
in their evening dresses — half fainting
with fear, and their protectors were almost
as agitated as themselves.

Lizzie,' cried Mr Courtney, ' give us
shelter, for God's sake ! Hide us in your
rooms, and this murderous crew will not
dare to follow us there. They are fond
of you, Lizzie, and they will believe
what you say. Make them hear reason,
in Heaven's name ! or we shall all be
slaughtered before your eyes ! '

Quick ! quick ! in here ! ' she exclaimed,
as she thrust the whole party
into her own bedroom, and closed the
door. ' Go with them, Hugh,' she said,
when they had concealed themselves,

and let me brlnof these mutineers to
reason.'

*And leave you to fall a prey to their
baffled wrath, or become a billet for the
first bullet that strays this way, Lizzie
he answered tenderly. * No, my dear.
You have said you love me ; and If we
have to die, we will die together.'

Before she could answer him, a crew
of dusky faces were surrounding the
bungalow, blocking up the verandah,
pressing into the doors, and filling up
the framework of the windows.

What's de Gubnor and de planter ?
Is dem in hiding here ? ' they shouted.

Gib dem up. Missy Liz, or we must
enter de bungalow, and we doesn't want
to do dat. Gib dem up, missy, and
don't you be steered — no nigger hurting
one hair ob your head.'

I'm not afraid of you for myself, my

friends,' she exclaimed, standing out
boldly to the front, and facing the
crowd of rebels, ' for you have always
been good and kind to me ; but if you
love me, you will go away to your own
quarters, and leave my house alone ! '

Directly we finds de Gubnor and de
planter, Missy Liz. But we're sworn
to ruin dem, and we must do it — dat's
so!'

And de Gubnor's wife ! ' shrieked a
female voice, that might be heard allover
the bungalow. ' Dat gal what pretends
to be so good, and dat is de
modern of dat baby you keep. Missy
Liz. She and Massa Courcelles know
all about dat chile ; and I wish dey
could swing together ! '

Hush, Jerusha, hush ! Go away, and
keep your evil tongue to yourself!' cried
Lizzie.

Dat's true, and you know it, Missy
Liz. And de Governor shall know it,
too, and Massa Courtney, and all de
world, dat she am no better than de
poor coolie gals what go all wrong.'

*Jerusha, I implore you, for God's
sake ! ' commenced Lizzie again.

But before she could finish her entreaty,
Maraquita had pushed open the
bedroom door, and stood beside her,
pale and trembling, but not courageous,
except with the courage born of
despair.

'It is true ! ' she gasped, rather than
said, 'and I am ready to confess it.
No, Lizzie, don't try to prevent my
speaking. Everybody may hear me
now. I can suffer in secret no longer.
Father, I am not what you thought
me ! I am a sinful girl, and I have let
the burden of my shameful secret rest

on Lizzie's shoulders. These people
only say what is true. They hate me
for what I have done, and want to revenge
themselves on us all, for my sake.
Perhaps, now that I have confessed my
sin, they will pity and forgive me.'

She sunk exhausted with fear and
shame on Lizzie's shoulder as she finished
her recital. Sir Russell Johnstonee
and her parents were standing by, horror-struck
by what they had heard, and
forgetful of their own safety in the
agony of witnessing her humiliation.
But Lizzie was the only person who
addressed her.

Hush, Quita, you have said enough ;
and surely all will think you have
suffered sufficiently, and need no further
punishment'

But the continual groaning and muttering
of the crowd outside did not seem

as though their anger was appeased,
and Quita shuddered as she heard It.

Give me my child ! ' she exclaimed
wildly. ' Everything is slipping from
me. My father and mother stand by
in silence, my husband will drive me
from his house. Give me something
that I can call my own ! Lizzie, I
want my child ! '

There is your child, Quita,' replied
her adopted sister sadly, as she led
her to the table. * God has already
called It through their hands to Himself.
They would not leave you even that
poor consolation, my unhappy Quita.'

^ Dead f ^ cried the unfortunate Lady
Russell, as she gazed upon her infant's
breathless form, ' dead ! Oh, Henri,
Henri, why was I ever untrue to you,
and to myself ? My punishment Is
harder than I can bear.'

VOL. III. Q

As she sunk upon her knees, and
her pitiful cry of ' Henri ' sounded
on the air, De Courcelles, unable
to restrain his feelings longer, burst
open his prison door and rushed in
upon them.

Yes,' he exclaimed triumphantly,
as he glared round upon the parents
and husband of Maraquita, * she speaks
the truth at last. I had sworn to
have her life, in exchange for that
of which she has robbed me ; but
she has avenged herself. Take me
prisoner again, as soon as you like.
I shall die contented, to know what
her future life must be.'

Dey nebber take you ! ' cried a
shrill voice at the open casement,
which was immediately followed by
a shot, which brought Henri de Courcelles
to the ground.

yertisha ! ' he muttered between
his teeth as he fell, with the dark
blood and froth bubbling from his lips.

Lizzie was at his side in a moment
tearing away his shirt, and striving
to stem the current of his life.
But it was in vain. The overseer
had met his fate at last, and was
rapidly bleeding to death.

Henri,' she cried, in a voice of
distress, * I can do nothing for you !
You are going to God ! May He
bless and forgive you.'

As — you — have — done,' he gasped
out, as his lifeless head fell from
her arm.

Sir Russell Johnstonee had stood by,
stern and miserable, watching the pitiable
sight, and listening to the confession
which dashed all the brightness
from his married life, but Maraquita and

her parents had hidden themselves away,
unable to bear such a strain upon their
nervous systems. Hugh Norrls seeing
that all was over, came forward to take
Lizzie in his arms ; but she turned from
him, and walked bravely Into the midst
of the mutineers. Their flaring torches
fell full on her ashen face, and lighted
up the large tears standing In her eyes ;
but she stood before them without one
sign of fear, and her voice was loud and
determined.

Are you satisfied now ? ' she demanded
boldly, ' or are not two lives
sufficient to gorge your lust for blood ?
Do you know what you have done ?
You say you love me, and would not
harm a hair of my head, yet you have
killed the man you knew was dear tome
! You have made me risk my life
in vain. Two days ago I walked Into

the Alligator Swamp alone, to find
Henri de Courcelles, and save him from
the gallows, and I brought him here,
only to fall a victim to your barbarity.
Was that love for me ? And the poor
baby too — the little innocent child that
I was bringing up as my own, and that
had never done you any harm, you
must needs take that from me too.
Now, what more do you want ? Is
it my own life ? You may as well
kill me as well as the rest. Perhaps
I am not more worthy to live, in your
estimation, than they were.'

At this harangue, the ringleaders of
the mutiny drew back abashed. They
had not calculated that in taking their
revenge on Henri de Courcelles they
would injure their ' Missy Liz.'

Missy Liz, no talking like dat,' said
an aged negro, speaking for the rest.

Missy know we hub her, and call her de
Good Angel ob Beauregard.'

Then if you love me, coolies, prove it
by what you do. Give up this hateful
mutiny against those who only desire
your good, and let the Governor, and Mr
and Mrs Courtney, return to the White
House in peace. If you don't, I warn
you my life will be the sacrifice, for you
shall trample over my body before you
enter the bungalow in search of them.'

She placed her two hands on the
lintels of the doorposts as she spoke,
to bar their way, and the negroes saw
she was in earnest.

Go back to your quarters, my friends,'
she continued, in a softer voice. ' In my
name, and the name of all whom I love,
I beg of you to return quietly to your
homes, and relinquish your murderous
design.'

For totter sake den, Missy Liz, for
your sake,' replied the coolies, as, started,
and somewhat ashamed of themselves,
for they had no real cause of complaint,
and had only been incited on by the
example of others, the crowd broke up
into groups, and commenced to walk back
slowly to their homes. And then Lizzie
turned round, and threw herself weeping
into Hush N orris's arms.

THE END.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

3 0112 049087221
