^

i\

.•^*«f?

»i*.M i

BY

HELEN Matters,

AUTHOR OF 'COMIN' THRO' THE RYE,' ETC,

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

$3ttblishcrs in QDrbimtrg t0 ^)cr #bijc3tji3 the (^vtccn.

1884.

[All Bights Reserved.]

BOOK I.

VOL. I.

in 2010 within funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/eyresacquittalse01mathe

O)

CHAPTER I.

But think na ye my heart was sir,
When I laid the moot on his yellow hair ;
think na ye my heart was wae
When I turned about, away to gae V

HE remote village of Lovel was
one afternoon electrified by news
of the death of its Squire, and
the intimation that his body might be expected
to arrive before night, under the care
of his friend. Lord Lovel.

In less than an hour, Mr. Eyre's grave
was being dug beside that of the woman
whose lover and husband he had been, and
of whose murder he was secretly believed

1—2

to be guilty ; though if he had killed her, it
had been for love — because, though he could
endure to see her die, he could not brook
the sight of himself degraded in her eyes,
or, as others said, know himself supplanted
in her love by his friend.

He had never been accused of the crime,
nor even for some time suspected of it, and
this was partly due to the fact that at his
instigation a woman named Hester Clarke
(formerly his mistress) had been tried for
the murder, and, by circumstantial evidence,
so nearly convicted, that her acquittal was
indignantly declared by the Judge to be a
gross miscarriage of justice.

But some extraordinary disclosures made
by Mr. Eyre in the course of the trial had,
in the eyes of many of those present,
reversed the position of accuser and accused :
while the ruthless lifting by his own hand

of the curtain that had screened his inner
life appalled the gazers, who in one scathing
flash of light saw him stripped naked of his
worldly robes, and as the man that God and
his own heart had long known him.

He stood before them a man who for
years had been at the mercy of a secret
sin, himself the fatal moving power out of
which had sprung three successive tragedies
of unspeakable pathos and horror, upon
which he gazed impassive and unsubdued
less repentant of his misdeeds than
callously bold in vaunting them — tearing
in shreds the honourable life he had worn
in those years when he had

^ Built God a churchy and laughed His Word to scorn,'

and by his inhumanity rather than his sins
cutting himself off from oil sympathy with
his kind.

As betrayer and deserter of the woman
Clarke in her youth, and remorseless bringer
to justice of her only friend and servant for
the murder of his unacknowledged child,
though of such murder she was practically
innocent, and privately exerting his great
influence to hang her ; as the man who first
robbed his best friend of his sweetheart,
then filched his good name and wore it
before the world ; as the assassin who attempted
Hester Clarke's life because he
lived in hourly dread lest she should tell
Mrs. Eyre the truth ; as the accuser of that
unhappy woman of his wife's murder, and
as a magistrate committing her to gaol while
yet his child's corpse lay warm upon her
knee — thus, bit by bit, his character during
the trial painted itself to the terrified
beholders' gaze, till all felt themselves in
the presence of a man whose hand would

not shrink from any deed to which his iron
will impelled him.

From that day the secret conviction grew
and strengthened that Mr. Eyre had himself
been the murderer of the wife he had so
passionately loved, the most popular reason
assigned being a violent jealousy of his
friend Lord Lovel, culminating in a fit of
madness in which he slew her.

But those who were best acquainted with
Mr. Eyre's haughty and inflexible character
said that he never needed to know jealousy,
and felt none ; but that, the complications
of his position with regard to Hester Clarke
becoming unbearable, rather than see his
wife endure those miseries that the knowledge
of his sin must cost her, he had cut
the knot of his difficulties and her life with
a single blow, and so secured ignorance to
her for ever.

Others denied the murder to have
been one of either jealousy or pride, declaring
it to be one of simple greed, committed
for the sake of the magnificent
diamonds Mrs. Eyre had worn that night,
and which were found missing when she
was discovered stabbed to the heart, but
breathing yet, in her chair.

Strong suspicion had at the time attached
itself to the gardener, who was seized on a
ladder, placed against her window, within
a few moments of the deed, and whose
infatuation for Mr. Eyre's French nurse was
said to be powerful enough to precipitate
him into crime for her sake.

Give me diamonds like Madame's, and I
will marry you,' she had said to him not half
an hour before the murder ; and the diamonds
had disappeared, and the gardener been
caught almost red-handed, yet Mr. Eyre

had refused for one moment to believe in
the man's guilt, all his energies being bent
to the conviction of the woman Clarke ;
and before setting out on that lengthened
journey, which extended to three years, he
had the man and maid married in his presence,
and left them established in sole
charge of the Eed Hall, with certain funds
to be disposed of according to his directions.
And, however keenly watched by the village,
the oddly-matched pair had given rise to no
suspicion, and gradually people ceased to
believe in their guilt.

Of Mr. Eyre nothing was known. He
and Lord Lovel had set out for abroad
within a few days of each other, and were
conjectured to be together ; but as both preserved
an unbroken silence, sending home
neither word nor sign of their existence,
the first positive news of them that reached

the village was contained in the telegram
that announced the speedy arrival of living
and dead.

But those who gathered round to see the
digging of Mr. Eyre's grave whispered that
the real secret of Mrs. Eyre's death would
never be known now, since the key to it
was for ever locked within the cold heart of
the man whom she alone had so passionately
loved, while all other men and women feared
him.

'Nae living man I'll love again,
Since that my lovely knight is slain ;
Wi' ae lock o' his yellow hair,
I'll chain my heart for evermair.'

seems like yesterday I were digging
her grave said the sexton,
jerking his head towards the
narrow green mound where Madcap Eyre
lay with her child on her breast, ' and I'd
sooner ha' dug his the first. . I misdoubt
me if the daisies and crocuses '11 ever spring
as free above his, as they do out o' her
pretty head — God bless her !'

If he'd bin a poor man he'd lie at the

cross-roads with a stake through his heart,'
said Nancy of the Mill, who stood with
arms akimbo. ' Lord ! to think that she
died as happy, like a baby in its mother's
arms — 'tis said she felt so safe-like, she
didn't even kiss him before she went . . .
And he'll never get near enough for her to
kiss him now — God Almighty 'ud never
stand it.'

I never thowt he'd a died till he'd swung
somebody or 'other for her,' said the blacksmith
; ' to see his grave a-digging seems
like a story broke off short-like in its middle
t'other world gets the end o't, and neither
they nor us is a bit the wiser.'

Love begins all things, and death ends
'em,' said the grave digger sententiously ;
half the sin in the world's born of the taste
o' a cherry lip, and a gentle ye'll sink
many a soul as has kept the commandments

from his youth up — 'twas a most powerful
true love as turned th' Squire from a honest
man to a black-hearted sinner

'He give his soul for her,' said a sad-faced
woman who stood by, * and he couldn't
do more for her if 'twas ever so — he knew
that if ever she comet to know about Hester
Clarke and the drownded child, 'twould kill
her . . . 'Tis said that just afore she died
she said 'twas the happiest moment of her
life, and never snowed she'd been murdered
she went so quick after she'd come out
of the chloroform.'

There's a man for you !' cried Nancy,
lifting up her hands ; ' if so be as he did
stab her through jealousy, to bide beside
her all through that night, holding the
handkerchief to her mouth, and not letting
her come to herself one blessed minnie, and
the doctor saying, ses he, " If she dies, 'tis

murder ;" and the Squire looks up and ses,
*' What then V Lord, what a man !'

It minds me of Tellers said a village
pedagogue, whose rusty coat-tails swept his
heels ; ' he killed Ms wife for jealousy ; but
there was no knife or chloroform there only
pillows.'

The master had no call to be jealous,'
said Sally Gene, who had just joined the
group ; ' she never loved but him, and he
snowed it.'

Then what ailed her to go running away
from him with the young lord ?' said the
old man acidly ; ' didn't the whole county
ring with it, and wasn't the Squire a changed
man from that day V

A mother bird don't run away when she
flies straight home to see her little uns has
taken no harm while she's away,' cried Sally
indignantly ; ' she jest took an inherent

morning ride, and the young lord overtook
her, and we all come out to our doors to
see 'em go by, he leading the ass so careful,
and lookin' so sorrowful, as if he know'd
the ride was beyond her strength, and she
so pale and sweet, a-wishing of us all good-morrow
. . . there never was two intercepted
young souls, or two as loved each
other so purely.'

And what a pair they made,' said the
graved bigger, resting on his spade ; ' so
lightsome, spirit, and beautiful ! She'd
walk beside master, but dance along side of
t'other — seems like as if they two ought to
be lying' here side by side . he left his
heart wi' her the day we laid the moot above
her.'

She were well loved,' said the sexton's
wife softly ; ' and for her sake the two men
loved one another. 'Twas grand to see 'em

standing; shoulder to shoulder at th' 'sizes —
'twas the only speck o' virtue in master's
character when he up an' said 'twas he, an'
not the young lord, as had brought Hester
Clarke to shame — seeming' as if he didn't
wally the world's opinion a groat, so long as
lie never heard the whisper o't.'

He was ever of a murders sort of
mind,' said the pedagogue, shaking his head,
'as was clearly shown when he shot at
Hester, and killed a rook. 'Twas greatly in
my mind, when he set out so quick after
Lord Lovel, that revenge was at the
bottom ; for, though a man may kill his
wife for love, he mostly kills her lover for
hate.'

Very bookish talk !' said the sexton
disparagingly ; ' some more leavings of
Othello, I repose ; but them as sits down
to write books is mostly pore creatures, and

nat 'rally the folks they set strutting' on the
page is like themselves . . . they ain't true
to human nature ; an' if you ticket a man
wi' a deadly sin, an' expect him to act
according', ten to one but he'll bust out with
a bit o' virtue as'll make you feel as if you'd
never snowed its right colour before . . .
an' if the master slew her as he lov'd best
of all upon earth, 'tis ten to one 'twas for
some reason as never entered into your
Othello's or any of them dummies' heads.'

Dummies !' ejaculated the pedagogue,
furious at this insult to the creatures of his
own discovery — ergo his own ; but a push
from one of the crowd, nearly precipitating
him into the open grave, compelled him to
take an awkward leap backwards, in the
course of which his head met a tombstone,
that made him think of Othello with disgust
for a week.

VOL. I. 2

The cause of the catastrophe was Job,
who came to the very edge, and looked
down with bitter hatred at the yawning
chasm.

Dig it deep,' he said ; ' he's been the
curse of the place this many a year, and
there's no knowing where his sins may
sprout up again ; but please God we've
done with bastards and murders now. A
bad man !' cried Job, striking his foot against
the crumbling earth ; ' he spoilt my little
Master Frank's life, and made him carry on
his shoulders a sin that wasn't his'n ; and
he spoke up the truth too late, for she never
snowed it . . . there's nought but hemlock'll
grow here, though them two sweet souls
laid alongside might save him . . . but,
thank God, he's dead, and my little Master
Franks above ground !'

His old voice ceased in a triumphant

quaver as he turned from the grave to the
dwindling group of villagers, for the short
November afternoon was closing in, and a
chilly mist rising in spectral shapes about
the nearer tombstones, and gathering more
closely about the little group, formed a wall
that shut out all objects beyond.

Ay r said the sexton, looking down ;
but I'd rather to-day was to-morrer, and
we'd got him here. Th' Squire were never
wasted in anything yet, an' it seems
s'prisin' that he should be throned in his
first wrestle, so to speak, wi' death. . . I
mostly gets a blink o' the dead face in its
coffin whiles I'm digging' its grave, but
somehow I can't see the master's.'

You shall within the hour,' said Job
briskly ; ' and now I must be hastening'
back, or the body '11 be there afore me ; and
my little Master Frankly be expecting '

What was it that froze the words on his
lips ? Whose was this tall shaj^e that
loomed gigantic through the mist, and from
which, after one shuddering glance, all fell
away, clutching at each other like drowning
creatures in a sinking ship ? Job, standing
erect, the vigour of youth rekindled in his
veins, withered and grew old, as, with a
lightning conviction of the truth, he
stammered, ' My master — where is my
master ?'

Mr. Eyre looked down at the half veiled
chasm at his feet

His grave is already dug,' he said, ' and
you have received my message. He lies at
the house yonder.'

His grave ?' repeated Job slowly and
stupidly ; ' his grave . . . but he's alive —
the message was from him . . . 'twas your
body he was bringing . . . his dinner's preparing,

and his chair's set. . . . My little
Frank,' he sobbed, 'my dear, dear little
Master Frank ' — then seized Mr. Eyre's arm
and shook him like a reed ; ' did you kill
him as you killed your wife ?' he shrieked.

He was killed in battle on October 25/
said Mr. Eyre, and his voice, hollow and
worn, might have been a ghost's. ' He had
been an hour dead when I found him. I
laid him in his coffin, and brought him
straight home. The message must have
blundered on its way.'

But Job did not hear . by the side of
that empty grave his faithful old heart
broke, and, palsied and tottering, he had
crept away home to where, for the last
time, his little Master Frank was waiting to
receive him.

Sure as he yielded up his breath

I bare his corpse away,
Wi' tears that trickled for his death

I washed his complied clay ;
And liker in a grave sae deep

I laid the dear-luv'd boy ;
And now for ever I maun weep

My winsome Gilders.'

ND so you dug my grave with a
will, my friend,' said Mr. Eyre,
looking keenly at the grave-digger,
' and IVe disappointed you ; but it
shan't be love's labour lost. Lord Lovel
loved my wife, and she him, and there's
room for me on the other side. She should
sleep sound between two such friends.

And they shall have no monument, and no
stained glass yonder, but only the flowers
they both loved, with the sun shining
through them ; and there'll be no briar to
grow out of either breast, but only a rose ;
and when my work's done, I'll lay my years
down beside them — just twice theirs — all
told. And so you thought I killed my
wife ?' he added, turning abruptly to the
terrified villagers, who began to smart
under a more wholesome fear of him in the
flesh than in the spirit.

Nay, sir,' said the sexton's wife, curtseying
; ' 'tis not for poor folks like we to judge
our master ; th' old man did but prate out
what he's caught up from his betters.'

Good God I' cried Mr. Eyre, like a man
violently awakened from a dream, ' is it
possible V then stooped and plucked a daisy
from her grave. * Poor, poor Madcap !' he

said, so low that none might hear him ;

and is that all my love hath brought thee X

Then, shrouding himself in his black
cloak, the mist swallowed him up from the
frightened gazers' eyes, and he was gone.

'Tis well that Frank lies yonder, not I,'
he said aloud, as he crossed the churchyard,

since that's the popular idea. I'll live to
disprove it, if only for her sake — as if the
sweet soul could have loved her murderer !
And though I've thought of most things, I
never thought of that, though clearly some
fool did — most likely Busby — and set the
country farmyard in a cackle, because its
chief goose had laid another egg. But she
can't hear them, and she's happy ; and
Frank's found her by now ; and he loves
her too well to tell her the secret he wouldn't
tell me. What was it ?' he cried aloud, and
standing still in the darkness. 'Three

years I've lost in hunting for it, and meanwhile
the woman's escaped me. But I'll
find her yet.'

As he climbed the familiar hill to his
home, he thought of how often those two
bright young creatures, now sound in death
below, had trod it beside him ; and once he
drew back, as though physically unable to
face the empty house, across whose threshold
his Madcap would never dance to meet him
any more. He entered the courtyard, and
mechanically turned to that wing of the
house in which her chamber lay ; and
from the force of habit, looked up as if
he would have distinguished her window
through the darkness. But what was this ?
A clear light burned within, and as he
paused below, his foot struck against a
ladder placed against the wall. ' Good God !'
he thought ; ' has it stood here ever since

that night ?' And then he remembered that
this was the very day and month of the
year upon which she had been murdered.

He had thought it unnatural that Hester
should climb the ladder unless with sinister
intent; yet he found his foot on the first
rung before he was aware; and as he rose,
step by step, put himself in her place, and
in the lighted room above seemed to see
Madcap, asleep and unconscious of her
doom.

As his head and shoulders rose above
the sill, filling the window from lintel to
lintel, he saw that it was unsheltered and
ajar, while through the clouded pane before
him he once more beheld the diamonds that
he had last seen on his wife's neck when he
left her in the drawing-room below with
Lord Lovel.

I'd rather have the right to wear these

openly, than own the finest farm in Canada,'
said a woman whose petticoat of linsey-woolsey,
drab stays, and coarse white bodice,
contrasted as curiously with the jewels she
wore as did her personal beauty with the
sordid plainness of the man who stood at
some little distance from her, his features expressing
a stupid admiration that struggled
with an almost abject terror.

You're just doited to deck yersel' wi'
'em,' he said sullenly. ' Happen but they'll
hang the two on us yet.'

There's only we two in the house,' she
said ; ' the child's asleep, and every door
locked, and master's body's at the Towers
by now. There's none likely to come nigh
us to-night. Sit down, you fool,' she added,
as she turned herself this way and that
before the mirror, ' unless you fear to soil

the chairs. Did ever you see fireflies give
out such a shine as yon ?'

Sit me down — here ?' he said, looking
not at his soiled fustian, but at the middle
of the room, his eyes fixed as if he saw
there some fearsome sight ; ' seems like as I
see her now as I seed her that night sitting'
in her white gown, and the red blood
gurgling' out ' — as though involuntarily, his
earth-stained hand lifted itself, and pointed
to where his eyes dwelt. ' I were mad tolet
myself' be dragged here this night ; and
that poor soul, innocent of all save peeping,
and a most hanged for our sin — I'd ha' confessed
all, afore 1 saw her swinging. An'
all for nought but to see you wi' a halter of
diamonds round your teazle '

'Tis handsomer than many a lady's,'
said the woman ; adding half aloud, ' Why

should I go with the poor fool at all ? In

Paris I might wear 'em, and '

I see no murder there,' Mr. Eyre had
once exclaimed, gazing at his gardener's
features ; but as Josephine's half-dropped
words reached the man's ears and he strode
forward, his master knew that his study-had
been superficial, and that beneath yon
boorish exterior might lurk unsuspected
possibilities of crime.

So you'd like to give me the go-by,'
said Digges with a bitter curse, as he
crushed the woman's white arm in his
coarse hand; *jest you try it,' and he
breathed hard and thick. ' If so be as I've
sold my soul for you, I'll git my pennyworth
; an' where I go, you'll fuller. I alius
knew you was a bad lot, but your first fancy
man's be the last ; for I'll kill the pair o' yean'
you'll git a taste o' that hell as your

coveting' the dimoncls pitched me into. I've
half the mind to tear 'em off yer body this
night, an' 'fess to the truth '

The woman laughed as she put her free
arm about his neck and kissed him ; her
beauty held him in bondage yet. In the
lower ranks of life it is seldom that a man
ill-uses his handsome mate so long as she
is true to him ; when she is faithless he
usually kills her, and Josephine had not
tempted her clown so far yet.

^ Didn't I promise to love you if you
could give me diamonds like Madame's?'
she said, sickening at the contrast of their
two faces in the glass ; * and I've worn them
once. To-night we'll unpick them from
their settings, and hide them for the last
time.'

We maun bide afore we makes a move,'
said Digges, who had relapsed into his usual

stolid self ; ' happen the neebours 11 keep
their eyes open yet awhile.'

They've given over suspecting long ago,'
said Josephine, who had during her three
years' marriage lost every trace of the
French idiom in speaking, and acquired the
English. ' Folks that dress themselves in
woollen must be virtuous ; and poverty's a
grand cloak under which to hide one's sins.'

She was flaunting backwards and forwards
before the mirror now, and beyond her lay
the pure, simple background of Madcap's
chamber, arranged just as she had left it
when she had ignorantly started on her last
long journey, without farewell kiss or word
to the husband and children she so passionately
loved.

There stood her white bed, and beside it
the table that held her Bible, Prayer-book,
and portrait of her husband alone, and her

two boys . together ; near them lay the
broken toy that Dody had dropped when he
had paid her his last visit, and wept at
leaving her, not knowing how soon he
would share with her that sleep which
knows no waking;. . . . Yonder, too, was

O 7 1

the cabinet, of which one unlocked drawer
held a secret that defied Mr. Eyre, while by
its side the easy chair stood, in which Madcap
had been ' twined of her sweet life '
unknowing. . .

On the borders of the half-light Digges
hovered, fearful to remain, as to depart,
alone, his round eyes resting on anything
rather than his wife. All at once the blackness
of the window attracted Josephine's
attention ; it would make a longer looking-glass
than the one in which she gazed, and
she approached it, seeing but night beyond,
for Mr. Eyre covered his face with his

mantle as she advanced, so that she saw the
jewels flashing like sun-rays upon an inky
pool.

But as she looked, some horrible lightning
impression of gazing at dark against dark
seized her ; involuntarily she pressed
nearer, and as the heavy mantle slipped,
and Mr. Eyre's eyes met hers through the
glass, his features menacing and stern, pale
and haggard as a man new risen from the
tomb, icy terror congealed the very blood
in her veins, and slew in her the power
to cry out — to stir. Ignorant and superstitious,
she never doubted that this washer
dead master in his bedclothes, come to
confront her with the witnesses to her crime
upon her body . . . and reason tottered,
but was not overthrown, till, dashing the
casement wide, he stretched his arm and
seized her . . . then her wits fled, and even
VOL. I. 3

as Mr. Eyre knew it, and saw the chamber-door
open, and Digges gone, he knew that
once more the secret of Madcap's death had
escaped him.

Alas ! who did medicine thee to that sheet sleep f

R. Eyes cursed himself for a
melodramatic fool as he let the
woman go, and hastened to regain
earth, knowing that there were but
two exits from the Red Hall, by one or
other of which Digges was certain to effect
his escape.

But the pitch-darkness aided the fugitive,
and Mr. Eyre felt so certain of his having
got off that he wasted no time in searching
the house, but descended to the village,
where he had the curious misfortune to l)c

3—2

mistaken at every other step for his own
ghost.

The story of his appearance in the churchyard
was not yet fully circulated through the
place, and many believed his body to be then
reposing at theTowers,so that some hindrance
to the search for Digges was unavoidable.

Save your cackles,' he said at last, sternly,
and search for this man throughout every
yard of the village — a hundred pounds to
him who seizes and brings him to me alive ;
but let no one enter the Eed Hall,' he added,
as he mounted the horse that he had himself
hastily saddled, and set out at full gallop for
Marmiton.

Within five minutes the whole population
of the village was abroad, some with lanterns,
others with hastily made and kindled brands,
whose light they flung on outhouses and
startled fowl cotes, beating each foot of field

and wood, and even climbing to the steep
cliff that rose sheer behind the Eed Hall, in
one upper window of which a light shone,
tempting the seekers to pursue their search
within.

But none dared withstand their masters
commands — he had returned grimmer and
more terrible than he departed ; but surely
not the guilty man they had supposed, as
his search for Digges, and a few hasty words
he had let fall, pointed to a discovery on
his part that the gardener and his wife were
the criminals.

To be sure, a' said " Thank Gad !" when
she heard th' master wur dead,' said one of
the seekers, gazing at the distant Avindow^ ;
and her were a bit flighty an' dressy-like
worst — but Lor, her sobered down an' got
a modest, hard-working' drab enow after her
married her mon.'

An' he got as dour an' crabbed as if he'd
wed poison by mistake,' said one of the
women who had joined in the search.
Happen he killed the missus to get the
diamonds for Josephine — an' Hester snowed
it, but wouldn't speak cos she and t'other
had been such greens ?'

An' if so,' said another of the group),

Where's the diamonds ? She'd never ha'
kep' her itching' fingers off 'em all these
years ; an' no talk o' going' to furred parts
neither, which folks mostly does wi' other
folks' galleries.'

*' God help the little un, all alone yon
with Josephine, if so be as Digges and she's
guilty !' said one of the women, shivering ;

but he never dropped a word o' her . . .
an' no doubt he locked her safe in afore he
comet away.'

But more than one mother looked back

wistfully at the shrouded pile that all had
been forbidden to approach ; and when, half
an hour later, Mr. Eyre rode through the
village, accompanied by mounted constables,
many were the seekers who volunteered to
accompany them to the Hall, only to be
peremptorily refused. Mr. Eyre's keen
glance at once discerned that no trace of
Digges had been found ; and, without
pausing to make inquiry, he and those with
him rode on to the house, where an entrance
was effected by breaking a window.

But for the gardener's fatal error in
leaving the ladder against the wall, no one
could possibly have surprised the woman
that night; and those who followed Mr.
Eyre uttered a cry of amazement as, pausing
on the threshold of what had been his wife's
chamber, he made a sign to them to look in.

Before the glass sat Josephine, laughing

softly to herself, and playing with the
diamonds that now in the idiot's kingdom
were her own — to be worn without fear, and
gloated over to her heart's content. For the
first time in her life she was happy — ay,
and to the last day of it, for Mr. Eyre never
allowed them to be taken from her during;
that long and weary time, through which he
waited patiently for the flicker of reason
that should cast its light upon the manner
of Madcap's end.

The man's not guilty,' said one of the
constables, who had been carefully watching
her ; ' if she'd only stolen the diamonds, the
shock of seeing you wouldn't have driven
her mad. Most likely she committed the
murder after Mrs. Eyre's maid had left this
room for the night, and went back to the
nursery just before Hester Clarke, mounting
the ladder through curiosity, discovered

what had happened, and shrieked so as to
rouse the house.'

Mr. Eyre did not reply. His habitual
promptitude of judgment had deserted him ;
and though his conviction of Hester's guilt
was shaken, he knew his long search for
Frank to have been based upon a wrong
impression, and he felt incapable of passing
an opinion on the relative guilt of the two
wretches he had surprised that night.
When asked if the men should search the
house, he assented, but did not accompany
them, though with his own hand he locked
Josephine in a room whence egress was impossible,
having previously placed bread and
water within her reach.

The happy doit went willingly, but cried
when he took the light away, till she fell
asleep, hugging the diamonds in her arms.

He then returned to his wife's chamber,

and sat down just within, not striking till tie
heard approaching steps, when he rose, and,
standing on the threshold, asked the chief
constable if he had discovered anything.

Nothing, sir — leastways only a child, all
alone, and sound asleep, sir.'

CHAPTER V.

He entered in his house, his home no more ;

For without hearts there is no home —
And felt the solitude of passing his own door
Without a welcome.'

*R. Eyes locked and barred the
hall-door upon the searchers,
then returned to his wife's bedroom,
and, closing the window, drew the
curtains before it.

Here the murderer had stood — what,
Digges f From here he must have seen
her asleep in the chair that stood midway
between bed and window ; beside it the
diamonds, whose wicked shine in a dullard's

eyes might have lit the way to an unprincipled,
covetous woman beyond . . .
but the gardener Digges f

Dropping the curtain, Mr. Eyre advanced
as though he were acting a part ; how easy
to aim one blow at yon sleeping shape — to
seize the diamonds, and escape by the open
window — to hide them and return, dragged
by the miserable power of the victim over
its destroyer — to encounter Hester Clarke
hurrying from the sight, upon which she
had privily looked — to seize and fasten the
guilt upon her, she keeping silence throughout
her trial, knowing that a word would
save her! Digges, the murderer . . .
mechanically he turned to a cabinet that
stood near him, and opened a certain drawer;
then brought the light, and stood looking
down fixedly on a dim outline traced upon
the wood within.

Here the knife had lain that was afterwards
found in Hester Clarke's possession,
but who had placed it there ? and did the
same hand remove it ? He lifted his own,
and, as one who makes an experiment,
stretched it towards the cabinet, his will
making imperious question of his mind, as
though he would wrest from it some secret
that had been acquired against his knowledge,
and must be forced to yield up to his
command.

But force of will would not unbar that
hidden chamber of his soul, locked even
against himself, whose key he had lost, and
his friend found.

God forgive you,^ Frank had written
when he had left Mr. Eyre's sick-bed to set
out on his journey. ' / how the truth.*

The truth . . . unless brain, car, and eye
mocked Mr. Eyre to-night, he knew that

the clue held in Frank's dead hand out
yonder was worthless, that the mystery of
Madcap's death was for ever solved, and
himself the sport of an illusion that had
made the opportunity of a clown.

Hester innocent — for the gardener's overheard
words cleared her of guilt — and he,
that poor worm, that clod, guilty. A fierce
sense of the meanness of the instrument
that had compassed so great a crime alone
moved Mr. Eyre's soul as, in that silent
chamber, he realized his own bitter, black
mistake.

Yet, as his accomplice, Hester is as guilty
as Digges !' he exclaimed aloud ; then loathed
himself for the stubborn pride that would
not accept defeat, but sought to snatch
aside the mirror which held him up to his
own implacable self contempt and condemnation.


He took no comfort in the thought that
Madcap's death was in no way a consequence
of his sin, and thanked God neither
for his innocence in this matter, nor for
that of the woman he had well-nigh hanged.
Hard and impenitent, he lifted his eyes
not to God, but to self, and, with pitiless
eye, scanned it as an enemy might, learning
it through and through, its impotence, its
ignorance, its pride.

In one vivid flash of light he saw
illumined the puppet that had mouthed
and strutted in his likeness — purblind,
arrogant, the meanest actor in the tragedy
of which it had believed itself the controlling
force and avenger . . . marked its
every antic and gesture, its insolent assumption
of the Divine right of vengeance,
while at its very side the Truth stalked,
invisible to its bandaged eyes.

Yet even as he gazed on this vile travesty
of himself, the man's soul, defiant, unyielding,
exulted in the thought that at least
she had not known him thus, but from first
to last kept his image unblemished in the
soul that she had laid before her Maker.
Looking back, he had her love and honour ;
looking forward, his unavailing eye swept
heaven and earth, and found them empty
of love, duty, vengeance, ambition — and
betwixt him and the half of one narrow
chamber-room he coveted — nothing. He
took the daisy from his breast that he had
plucked growing above her head, and
thought that it was well with her out
yonder — but how had Lord Lovel earned
the right to a long, deep slumber at her
side?

Mr. Eyre started to his feet as one
pierced by an intolerable pang, and, standing

erect, with hands hanging at his sides,
gazed straight before him, as if he actually
witnessed a scene that evoked his strongest
contempt and loathing.

And what did he see ?

Come with me to the storming of the
trenches before Sevastopol — see a sunny-haired
young fellow beckoning on his men
see him, struck by a cannon-ball,
reel from his saddle, while his followers
trample him beneath their feet as they rush
onward to victory . . . see how, amid a
storm of shot and shell, a man rushes
forward, and, lifting that yet warm body
up, bears it away to a place of safety,
where he tears aside the scarlet coat, only
to find that the heart beneath is still — the
heart that holds the lost clue to Madcap's
death !

Silent, with closed lips, unconscious of

VOL. I. 4

bravery,' so ^^oung that his mother in
heaven could not have forgotten his likeness
yet, the soldier lay — beaten in the
fight, but with a gleam of victory shining
athwart his wide-opened blue eyes and
shattered features that, to one who loved
him, might have seemed more nobly beautiful
than the glance that had been his in
life.

Yet, as enemy rather than friend, Mr.
Eyre lifted that lifeless body and gently
laid it down. He and the man before him
had been comrades, sworn to one cause, and
it had been no part of Mr. Eyre's scheme
that either should die before it was won.
No pity for that gallant fate stirred him —
no memory of how he had loved his friend,
and stolen his Madcap from him, softened
his heart ; only a bleak and a bitter rage
filled his soul that, after three long years

of pursuit, in which ho had wasted the
whole forces of his brain and body, he had
at last come up with the pursued to find him
dead.

'He should have been shot through the
heart as a deserter, not buried as a hero,'
Mr. Eyre thought, as he folded his cloak
across Frank and left him alone in the rude
hut, while he himself went to search for
those proofs of the young fellow's identity
that he must take with him to Lovel when
he bore the body home for burial.

He carried his life in his hand that night;
but, as if he had been Belial's self, no harm
touched him, and day was breaking when
he found Frank's colonel — dying — but able
to recognise Mr. Eyre as an old friend,
and to answer his questions about Frank.

Lord Lovel had joined quite recently, and
seemed to court death. He had confided to

4—2

him, a few days previously, a packet of
papers that he desired might lye sent to Mr.
Eyre if he fell.

These papers were on the dying man's
body at that moment ; and as Mr. Eyre
drew them from above his heart, a fierce
throb of hope animated him ; for here
perhaps Frank, though dead, spoke to him
the truth.

As he tore them open, the dying man
suddenly cried out :

Has anyone seen Methuen ? Take care
there's no mistake . . . their own mothers
couldn't tell . . .' then died with the unfinished
sentence on his lips.

A withered bunch of flowers . . . a faded
ribbon . a pale photograph of a girl's
face made out of sunshine . . . half a dozen
letters written in childish characters, and
signed ' Your little sweetheart, Madcap '

. . one or two notes, of which the ink
was fresher, and tone sedate, with the name
of ' Eyre ' added to that of ' Madcap ' . . .
these and no more.

Not a word to his friend — not a syllable
to call back the awful burden he had laid
upon him . . . and as, later, Mr. Eyre
stood looking down upon that shrouded
clay, he could have spurned it with his foot
in loathing.

When the rude coffin had been made
ready, Mr. Eyre and his dead set out for
home, his mind a sullen blank, that last
stage of the impotent rebellion against
God that had for three years consumed
him.

As he landed with his burden on a bleak
November night, there occurred to him a
strange illusion.

Pure and sweet, like the far-off singing

of a bird in a solemn aisle, suddenly rang
in his ears the lines of an old ballad which
Madcap had often sung, but to which he
had never consciously listened :

" When will you be back, Lord Lovell T she said,
When will you be back V said she.
"In a year or two — or three at the most . . ." '

Ay, it was her voice, and she reproached
him with Frank's death, which, indeed, lay
at his door ; for had not Frank meant to
return ? And was not his own pursuit of
him the cause of that reckless throwing
of himself into the jaws of death ? Ay,
verily his friend's death lay at his account,
as did those other sinless ones whose memory
he bore always about his path and ways, a
weight to sink him to the remotest depths
of hell itself.

Yet, when the sound ceased, Mr. Eyre
was himself again, and busied with a scheme

that he at once proceeded to put into
effect.

In Frank's name he telegraphed to Lovel
news of his own death, convinced that
Josephine would immediately communicate
the news to Hester, so that he would
probably find the two women together on
his arrival. No matter what hidden clue
Frank had held, in his soul Mr. Eyre knew
Hester Clarke to be guilty ; and it was with
the implacable determination to convict her
yet that he had approached his house that
night, expecting to find her within it.

And on his very threshold he had been
met by this sordid reading of the tragedy, a
mere clue to which had made him a wanderer
on the face of the earth for three long
years, a clue that had made him put even
Hester aside as one to be dealt with later ;
and now if Digges or Josephine were guilty

if — but what waste of time to speculate,
when by that hour of the following day the
man would be in the hands of justice, and
his confession or his evidence taken down !

Hester guiltless, Frank exiling himself
for a chimera ! yet Mr. Eyre's stubborn soul
rose up in the teeth of fact against the
theory of Digges as the murderer, and
denied himself to be a fool who had become
the slave of a conviction, made blind
by the obstinate inflexibility of his judgment,
or that his strength had been his
undoing, his immutability his curse, so that
in the issues of his whole intellectual
strength he had been worsted by a clod.

And yet, as a man who knows that
across his eyes a film is stretched which
hinders his perceiving at his very feet the
object for which he painfully gropes, so Mr.
Eyre's mind, while passively accepting

Digges as the murderer, sought within his
own breast for the true reading of a mystery
that, while clear as day to all others,
was dark as night to himself.

But as a side-thought will sweep a man
out of the track of sober fact, and bid
tragedy itself pause while he dallies with a
folly, so Mr. Eyre's mind started off at a
tangent to Madcap, and rested there, just
as a mariner in drowning looks up to the
patch of blue above him. So the darkened
chamber, the white chair, receded from Mr.
Eyre's eyes, and in their place he saw an
old-fashioned garden, and a young girl
stepping backwards down a ladder, as,
aloud, she carefully counted the plums on
the garden-wall.

Anon he saw the same young shape (but
three months older) seated beneath the
white plume of a thorn, whose blossoms

were no paler than her cheeks, till a step on
the turf made her turn, and the next
moment two gentle arms, arms that
trembled, but not with doubt, stole round
his neck. . A trysting-place (six hours
later), to which a young girl in a white
gown came stealing — all her worldly goods
tied up in her pocket-handkerchief, and
nothing in life to keep her warm but her
lover's arms. . A hurried marriage, at
which an old friend of the bride's assisted,
and then six years of such happiness as
might make a wicked man in love with
virtue, and look back with loathing on the
pleasures he had found in sin.

And those arms had held her fast and
safe through those six short, happy years —
ay, and made to her so sure a haven that
dreamlessly she had sunk to her last rest in
them, knowing neither fear nor pain, so

long as they were closed about her ; yea, and
even in the moment of death knew no pang,
but called it the happiest moment of her
life.

She had been happy to the last. Exultantly
in that lonely chamber, Mr. Eyre
lifted his brows to heaven, and cried aloud,
that no matter what his suffering, sin, and
shame might be, she had never suffered —
and never would.

If to the world a piteous tragedy might
have showed in the untimely death of one
so young, lovely, and beloved, to her husband
the thought was infinitely less moving
than to see her living, the springs of faith
and hope in her quenched — the soul and
heart dying gradually, the body last, and he
himself dishonoured in her eyes for time and
all eternity.

There lay the root of it — Idraself- — the

fatal Ego that subordinated all things to
itself, that had cast its sins behind his back
and cried, ' Thus far and no farther ' — opposing
his puny strength to that of his
Maker, and when overtaken by their pitiless
consequences, trampling them under foot,
arrogating to himself the Divine right of
vengeance or mercy upon the objects of his
hatred and his love.

Persons who had never studied human
nature pointed to Mr. Eyre's constancy to
his wife as a virtue ; yet for the secret of
such faithfulness one must look rather to
the woman than the man, since one woman
will fix what a hundred before her have
missed, and will miss again, if once the
touchstone to his faithfulness have not been
found in herself.

Again, the world had discovered no congruity
between the strong-brained man and

the slender young mother of his children —
found fault with the pair, and suspected
some secret key to the riddle that to clumsy
eyes and fingers was found in the circumstances
of Mrs. Eyre's death. None guessed
that his love for her had been selfish as his
whole life ; that it had neither humanized
nor taught him to love others ; how for her
very children he had felt no affection, and
if the thought of her son crossed his mind
to-night, it was only to dismiss it instantly.
Let the boy look to himself. Mr. Eyre
had been thrown very early on the world,
without a mother's guidance, and with the
example of a worse father than himself
before him ; and as to duty, why, the word
had never held any meaning to his mind.
Frank was dead ; and now there lived not
one soul whose heart might break for loss of
faith in him — not one whose suffering it

might break her heart to see ; so that he
was buckler and panoplied against fate,
and with indifference could contemplate
those past sins that had power to hurt no
one now.

Perhaps if her little prematurely born
babe had lived (the babe that had been
dying when he set out on his search for
Lord Lovel), it might have borne some likeness
to her, and he have loved it ; but as it
was, she had died, and so Madcap had

Left the world no copy.'

Body and soul, he was worn out with the
fires of excitement and disappointment that
his three years' pursuit of Lord Lovel had
cost him ; and what wonder if, as the night
drew on, his wearied spirit envied Frank
his resting-place yonder, and for himself
coveted but the half of one narrow mound ?

Perchance, as in the exquisite old fable of
Abelard and Eloise,' his true love's arms
would open to enfold his body to her breast,
and so at last they would sleep sound and
sweet together.

Suddenly he rose, and stretched out his
hands towards yon empty bed with the first
purely physical, passionate longing for Madcap
that had moved him since the fierce
longing for vengeance on her murderer had
steeled his heart against all natural love
and sorrow.

Madcap f

The starved cry rang through the silent
house as, pierced through all his armoury of
pride by that living thought of her, the
strong man awakened for the first time to
the full desolation of his miserable lot.

Hark ! what was that ? A movement,
rather than a sound, that stole through the

empty house . . . then a faint stir as of
something that approached waveringly and
with many halts, till gradually the faint,
pattering sound as of a child's bare feet
upon polished boards drew nearer and
nearer, till, on the threshold of Madcap's
chamber, they paused, as though in fear or
doubt. Through the fierce wrestle of his
bodily weakness with the power that crushed
him, these footsteps sounded but faintly,
nor when a gentle hand pushed the door
open, and a little shape stood on the threshold,
did he move or turn, till, feeling something
approach him, he tore his hand from
his eyes, and angrily pointed to the door.

AVho was it that dared intrude on him
thus % He looked, but at first saw nothing ;
then downwards, and saw close beside him
a child no higher than his knee.

He averted his eyes angrily, and, in a

harsh voice, bade her begone. What did
the murderer's brat heve^ intruding her
paltry existence on him in this, the grand
reckoning-hour of his existence ?

Mr. Eyre understood neither the piteous
helplessness nor the beauty of childhood ;
he had never studied, never loved a child,
and this lonely, forsaken one touched no
chord of mercy in his breast.

Go !' he said, once more lifting his hand
in the fierce gesture of dismissal that Madcap's
children had so invariably obeyed.
But the harsh look that sped like a blow
fell faltering, for what was this ?

Did he not know this face by heart — its
eyes, its lips, the very sunshine of its glance,
ay, the very dimples in its cheeks ? was
not this the very dawn of his own bright
Madcap ? . . . and this was Josephine
child !

VOL. I. 5

Unconsciously he sank to his knees, she
looking at him earnestly ; then, with one of
those angelic instincts of pity that will
move a little child's heart to the comprehension
of a tragedy it cannot hioii\ and
with no fear of that terrible face above her,
she lifted a dimpled hand to his neck, and
left it there.

Is 'oo miserbul ?' she said, in her tender
little voice, and looking at him earnestly ;
then finding something in his face that
satisfied her, put her other arm round his
neck, and gave him that first, best, purest
gift earth can afford — a child's unbidden
kiss. He received it as if he were stone . . .
how long ago was it since anyone had kissed
him ? Then, putting her from him so
harshly that any but a child would have
been startled into the belief that he was
angry, cried :

What is your name T

I've Madcap,' she said, and laughed
aloud in the desolate chamber . . . and
then Mr. Eyre knew that his reckoning-hour
was stayed, for that betwixt him and God
had passed the shield of a little child.

Here was Madcap's message to him from
the grave, sent to him in his darkest, loneliest
hour ; here, in his grasp, was that
divinest link between God and man — the
hand of a little child.

Here, in the very moment that his life
had practically come to a full stop, was a
heart put into it. . . Ay ! but through
which to suffer, to be made human, through
which to remember dead sins . . . though
he knew it not, was not here his punishment,
the instrument by which his stubborn
soul was to be brought to submission to his
Maker ?

5—2

No such thought touched him as he
bowed his head on the little innocent breast
that took him with all his sins upon it, and,
neither questioning nor doubting, knew only
that he was in trouble, and that he was her
friend.

Can't find Joey anywhere she said,
shaking the bright head that rested on Mr.
Eyre's raven locks, ' and I dont like being
left all by my lone self — has 'oo come to
stop V she added, suddenly.

Yes !'

What's oo' name V

I am your father.'

Oh no !' said the child, looking at him
with grave, lovely eyes ; ' daddy's dead —
Joey said so-this afternoon. They're going
to put him in the cold, cold pit tomorrow —
poor daddy !'

She shivered a little as she said it, as if

chill or afraid ; and, as though it had been
his Madcap's body that his own carelessness
had put in danger, Mr. Eyre lifted the child,
and, wrapping her in his cloak, carried her
to the bed, and laid her down upon it.

She fell asleep soon, with her hand in his,
and a shower of bright hair falling over
them both ; but presently he lifted himself,
and took curiously a handful of that bright
gold, then loosed it and kneeled down beside
the bed that but an hour ago had
seemed empty, beyond the power of God or
man to fill it.

But what weakness was this ? However
much Madcap's image, there could be but
one Madcap to him, and he had always
hated children. . . Why had "^ this one come
to him in his hour of weakness, when
broken, worsted, he knew himself alike
worthless in the sight of heaven and earth %

His stubborn pride rebelled . . . unconsciously
he withdrew his hand from that
sleeping clasp. . . Yet morning found them
thus, a child wrapped in a man's grey cloak,
and a man who slept with his arm thrown
around her, as though, even in his slumbers,
he must clutch the one treasure that, in the
shipwreck of his life, had been cast up from
the very deeps at his feet.

•5'r-ser-ser-SC- -JC-

The same grey hour of dawn found Job
gazing broken-hearted on the dead likeness
of the only creature on earth that he loved.
Speechless, bereft almost of reason, he had,
on Mr. Eyre's departure from the churchyard,
tottered home, to find a shrouded
coffin in the hall, unwatched, unwept ; but
as the trembling old man sank on his knees
beside it, a wild hope, conviction — what
you will — seized him that the coffin did not

contain Frank, but some other man whom,
for reasons of his own, Mr. Eyre wished to
pass off as Lord Lovel.

When the house was still that night, and
the women sound asleep in their beds, with
the key turned upon them, the gloomy hall
showed a flicker of light, and Job once more
approached, bearing certain tools that he
laid upon the ground, with his lanthorn ;
then, pushing the pall aside, with a beating
heart began his work.

The coffin was stout, and had been firmly
soldered down. The sweat poured from
Job's brows like rain as, with the strength
of desperation, he toiled on hour after hour,
the hollow blows waking ghostly echoes in
the lofty hall, and dying away in shivering
sounds along the vast corridors that for
three years had been silent to the master's
step.

But by daybreak the lid of the last inner
coffin was loosened, and Job had only to lift
it, to put the linen aside, and his doubts
would be set at rest for ever ; but when he
had lifted the lid, his hand refused to travel
farther, and, with a sob, the old man sank
on his knees to the ground.

Better to have kept his belief that his
idol was not there . to have clung to
the hope that one day he would hear his
foot on the stair, his voice in the hall . . .
he would close the coffins up without looking,
and keep his belief, and his suspicions
of Black Eyre.

But even as he touched the lid to replace
it, an overmastering impulse made him
draw aside the linen below, to see before
hint, beautiful and calm in sleep, the
features of his fondly-loved, dear ' little
Master Frank.'

The ball that had half shattered the deadman's
face had left his lips untouched and
smiling, and the bright, frank expression
that had made him so irresistible, yet
lingered, while the impress of the gallant
death he had died gave a nobler beauty to
the young and almost boyish face of poor
Madcap's sweetheart, and Mr. Eyre's
friend.

For a while Job looked at him without
stirring, and with his heart frozen. Then
he stirred the short bright hair of his
boy," as he always called this young
warrior of over six feet in height, and
touched the cold hand that had done its
life's work so early and so well ; but the
shouts of the conquerors, the honour of the
death that wrapped around his master
with cloak of pilgrim grey,' brought no
comfort to Job, nor made less bitter the

agonizing tears that at last dropped like
lead upon his darling's breast.

He strove to replace the lid ; but when,
an hour later, the clamouring of the shut-up
women attracted a gardener, who forced
an entrance to the house, he found Lord
Lovel lying with peaceful, uncovered face,
and Job fallen in a fit beside him.

To identify ourselves with something wider and
greater, that shall live when we, as units, shall have
done with living, that shall work on with new hands
when we, its worn-out limbs, have entered upon rest.
The soldier who rushes on death does not know it as
extinction ; in thought he lives and marches on with
the army, and leaves with it his corpse upon the
battlefield.'

'Y eight o'clock came riding in hot
speed Colonel Busby, a magistrate
of the neighbourhood, and
the most pestilential busybody within it.

But when he came to the vast hall, whose
lofty ceiling was still in gloom, while the
light from the stained-glass windows fell

but faintly on Lord Lovel's uncovered face,
upon which, as yet, no change had come
(with such incredible rapidity had Mr. Eyre
brought him home), involuntarily he bared
his head, and, coming to the side of the
coffin, looked down with a real impulse of
sorrow on the young fellow's face.

How well he remembered Frank Lovel in
life, and how nobly the boy had taken on
himself Mr. Eyre's sins ! and now the one
lay dead, while the other lived and
flourished, ripening, perhaps, for some new
crime, and defying alike the justice of God
and the opinion of man.

The busybody had come in warlike guise,
secretly suspecting some mystery about
Frank's death, but outwardly to demand by
what right Mr. Eyre commanded the young
man's grave to be dug and the burial to take
place, before the process of identification

had been gone through, or the heir and his
advisers summoned. But as first one, then
another came in, those who had loved
Frank, those who had blamed him when he
lay under the shadow of Mr. Eyre's sin —
yea, and those who had pitied while they
honoured him — all these, I say, as they
wept, knew him ; and as the hours wore
on, and more and more people gathered.
Lord Lovel lay in state, however humble,
and was a hero, so that strong men wept
for the thought of the manner of his death,
and the women for the glimpse of the stain
on his scarlet coat, above which his hands
rested so quietly, their work being done.
The sight of him was open to all, for Job
was insensible, and the two women of the
house scared beyond the power of interference.
All that morning the tide of life
ebbed and flowed about the dead soldier.

for men's hearts at that time were aflame
with the war, and no Lovel had ever gone
so gloriously to his last resting-place as
would this young fellow, with none to
trumpet forth his deeds, and only the
eloquence of death to speak for him.

Last of all came Mr. Eyre, and, without
looking at those around, stood gazing down
upon him, and might have spoken that most
exquisite farewell which, addressed by
Arthur to Lancelot, has never yet been
matched in human language, nor ever will
be.

Vast and sinewy as a gladiator of Some,
with a dark stern face, upon which the fires
of over forty years had legibly left their
mark, Mr. Eyre stood like a second Saul
among those around, too negligent of their
presence to defy them.

If he were a humiliated man, if he knew

his panoply of pride and vaingloriousness to
have crumbled in ashes about him, and
himself beaten at every point, lie to whom
fate itself had seemed to bow, however
much in mockery, Mr. Eyre yet to-day
carried himself as proudly as if he had
neither sinned nor blundered, and the bloodred
day of Bilboa were as yet undreamed of
and arisen.

Those around thought his face hardened,
as he looked down on his dead friend ; but
his lips moved neither in blessing nor
cursing, and none could have told whether
the stern restraint of pain or the callousness
of hatred held him motionless during
the minutes that he stood beside him.

When at last he moved, it was with the
old firm step and air of command, so that,
involuntarily, the women around curtseyed,
and the men pulled each his forelock,

ashamed of their doubts of him, for Job's
recognition had cleared the way for Mr.
Eyre, and none durst suspect him of harm
to Lord Lovel now.

Colonel Busby, whose keen eyes had
never left Mr. Eyre's face since he entered,
hurried out after him, and overtook him ashe
entered one of the avenues.

You seem out of breath,' said Mr. Eyre
by way of greeting to a man he had not
met these three years, and without offering
his hand.

*I am,' said Colonel Busby, who, being
extremely short and stout, resembled
nothing so much as a gasping frog ; * but
that telegram. Eyre ; it must be seen into.
What gross carelessness on the part of the
Post Office people ! It gave us all such a
shock to hear — to hear '

That Fm alive,' said Mr. Eyre ; * exactly

it must have been a great blow to you
after the telegram

'Well, well,' said Colonel Busby, colouring
violently ; ' it's a sad thing, you know —
poor young fellow I but fortunate you were
there to bring him home. Odd, too, as I
suppose you were not fighting yourself ?'

Not I,' said Mr. Eyre carelessly ; ' it
was a mere chance, my finding him.'

And yet you've been together these
three years V said Colonel Busby, his
inveterate curiosity not to be checked by
the fact that all this time Mr. Eyre was
walking away from him down the avenue.

Have we ?' said Mr. Eyre indifferently ;
then I suppose we're both dumb, for I
have not exchanged a syllable with him
since I left Lovel.'

The little man gasped with amazement
and lack of breath, as he tried to keep up

VOL. I. G

with Mr. Eyre's long stride, but the next
moment said :

Then about that poor woman, Eyre ;
what a fearful blunder you made ! And
that lout of a gardener guilty, after all.'

Ah, by-the-way,' said Mr. Eyre, pausing
suddenly in his walk, ' have you heard anything
about the woman ? Has she been
seen in the neighbourhood during my
absence ? You see, I look to you for all the
gossip.'

As a magistrate,' said the Colonel,
puffing himself out, ' I am compelled to
take cognizance of matters that do not
come under the heading of gossip. I
have certainly made it my business to
inquire about this unhappy and persecuted
woman '

By whom persecuted V said Mr. Eyre.

To do Colonel Busby justice, he was no

coward, and now he looked Mr. Eyre full in
the face.

By you !' he said, with a touch of
dignity, not even to be marred by his
absurd appearance. ' It was an inhuman
persecution, since you could not have
believed in her guilt.'

Pshaw !' said Mr. Eyre, frowning ; ' but
I won't quarrel with you. "There is no
railing in an allowed fool ;" and for the first
time in my life, I find your conversation
interesting. And pray whom did you think
guilty V

'Well,' said Busby, hesitating for a
moment, but hardened by that allusion to
his folly, ' it was generally considered that
you ought to have changed places with the
woman, and been tried for it yourself ; but
being a fool, I only repeat what was of
common report.'

G— 2

And what is your own opinion ?' said
Mr. Eyre grimly.

What my opinion was matters little, now
that there is not a shadow of doubt your
gardener is guilty said Colonel Busby stiffly.

Don't alter your opinion on that score,'
said Mr. Eyre carelessly. ' I'm not at all
sure that he did it — or if so, the woman
Clarke was accessory to the crime, and
deserved hanging. Now that I've done
with Lord Lovel, I must have her found —
I've been too busy to think of her these
three years.'

You will remain here ?' said Colonel
Busby, curiosity mastering dignity.

To be sure,' said Mr. Eyre ; ' I've found
new ties ' (he laughed) ' that will keep me
here awhile ; and there are Lord Lovel's
affairs to arrange ; the new heir is a mere
lad, and I'm his guardian.'

Colonel Busby opened his mouth, but
no sound came ; for once, wonder silenced
him.

New ties — what were they ? Mr. Eyre
guardian to the young heir — lie — this man
pre-eminent in evil, who carried things
with as high a hand in defeat as victory !

By the way,' said Mr. Eyre, ' I heard
something about your coming over to have
Lord Lovel's coffin opened — did you think
I had killed him too ?'

'The proceedings were informal — irregular,'
said Colonel Busby stiffly ; ' his 
should have been asked to the
funeral, which, I am told, you have fixed
for tomorrow.'

Not 1/ said Mr. Eyre, ' but for next
day. You'll see the heir safe enough, and,
no doubt, the lawyer — and the rest of
them.'

It must be a great relief to you to know
that you are not morally responsible for
your wife's death said Colonel Busby,
gathering all his energies together to implant
one poisoned shaft in Mr. Eyre's
invulnerable hide.

Almost as great a one as to know that
I'm not physically responsible,' said Mr.
Eyre grimly ; ' and now you'd better run
back to Mrs. Busby, and retail your news —
if any ; you've filled my budget with food
for a week.'

And Mr. Eyre went on his way down
one of the three avenues that were the
glory of the Towers and the pride of the
Lovels — avenues that branched like three
spokes of a giant wheel from the very hall-door,
and gave endless variety to the outlook
through every season of the year.

Mr. Eyre had walked them in all times

and all weathers, often with Madcap, oftener
with Frank ; and he knew them in their
every gradation of splendour, from their
first timid veil of green, to their dazzling
winter robe of white, when in dim perspective
they stretched out like exquisite
solemn aisles that a footstep below, or a
bird's voice above, seemed to sound in only
to profane ; but this morning Mr. Eyre saw
the avenue he followed in a new light,
and, as it happened, was in a mood to
observe it.

Dull and sodden as the day before had
been, in the night the wind freshened,
and by morning a gale had sprung up.
The leaves of the trees, wasted to mere
skeletons, danced in their thousands to the
keen wind that smote them this way and
that, and produced (with the sun shining
through) an extraordinary effect, so that

Mr. Eyre stood for a time looking, and
thinking that he had never really seen wind
before.

As he watched, its wild fierce spirit
entered into his blood, and with it his own
rose ; he was once more himself, and the
past night of his self-abasement vanished
like a dream ; he had been out of sorts,
fasting, and had conjured up thoughts that
the brisk morning air dispersed. His
interview with Colonel Busby had refreshed
him ; his weapons might have rusted, but
had not worn out ; and even as a suspected
murderer, he could hold his own
yet.

And at the end of this avenue, that ran
straight as the crow flies to the foot of the
Ked Hall, he would find somebody — something
; and then the dance, the whistle,
the rush of the leaves and wind blended,

held him no longer, and he went forward,
bent only on his thoughts.

Once he had gone this way with Frank
and Madcap, and he had moved beside
them like a ghost, feeling himself one, and
looking on at the young pair who enjoyed
the happiness that his death alone might be
able to give them.

And now he walked the same path living,
and knowing that, beyond any taking
away of Frank, or any other, she was his,
had been always his to the last beat of her
heart ; and even in dying had left him (so
loth was she to leave him quite) a lovely
message in her own image, that should
reach and stay him in the first hour of
physical and mental weakness that he had
ever known.

He gave no backward thought to the
dead now lying in the Towers. He had not

forgiven him, and never would, even though
Madcap had loved the boy ; while to Mr.
Eyre's own heart there had been no living
soul (save her) so near to it as Frank
Lovel.

I want to take up my cross and follow the true
Christ — Humanity; to accept the facts as they are,
however bitter or severe ; to be a student and a lover,
but never a lawgiver.'

regular notification of the hour
of Lord Lovel's funeral was
sent out, or invitations to the
county given ; nevertheless, nearly every
man of any consequence in it came, so that
from the gates of the Towers to the churchyard
there was an unbroken procession of
men and women all on foot, as were the pall-bearers,
and not a sign of ostentation or
hired grief marred the spectacle.

EYRE S ACQUITTAL.

Some of those present remembered that
this was about the third anniversary of
Madcap's burying ; but there were no
flowers on this coffin, nor did Mr. Eyre
appear as chief mourner, but a bright-faced
boy brought fresh from Eton, and
looking round repeatedly for the only face
he knew among the bewildering crowd at
his heels.

But with his habitual contempt for
laws and appearances, Mr. Eyre came
last of all, leading a little child, whose
dressing had possibly delayed him, as she
had a boa tied on over her white pinafore,
and wore a bonnet that certainly was never
made for her, while a pair of her father's
gauntleted gloves extended to her shoulders,
and kept dry and warm the dimpled hands
and arms beneath.

Though they came last, the crowd divided,

and the right of precedence at the grave
was given them ; indeed, a clear circle was
left around the pair, that might have
touched a less sensitive man than Mr.
Eyre. But the only sign of feeling he gave
during the Burial Service was when he
looked down at the child's feet, and for
the first time observing that she wore
shoes, snatched her up, and, having stripped
them off", chafed her feet, then wrapped
them and her in his cloak, and stood impassible
as before.

Madcap the younger had been quite
happy as she trotted along beside him, and
the sight of so many people, and some
familiar faces, pleased her ; but she was
happiest of all when ' Dad ' took her up,
and from the eminence of his stature gave
her a bird's-eye view of the proceedings,
that ended in a long stare at a boy whose

head did not reach her father's elbow as he
stood behind it.

When that droll little head popped over
Mr. Eyre's shoulder, the boy looked up,
and fell in love at once with her ; so that
when her eyes dropped to him, and her
rosy lips pouted to him in token of satisfaction,
it was natural enough that he
should reach up to, and kiss her.

He blushed for shame the next moment
(being but a boy, and so much more modest
than a girl of less that half his age), but
presently a dimpled hand, hung temptingly
over the blackness of Mr. Eyre's back, encouraged
attention, and the boy put up his
own, and allowed her to hold it. Colonel
Busby was a witness to the little scene, and
considered it unseemly to the last degree.
The villagers whispered that here was the
old story over again — a Lovel would love a

Madcap, even to his own undoing, to the
end of time. Most of those present thought
of how Frank had led Doune at the older
Madcap's funeral ; and one or two saw,
grudgingly, how Providence, in meting out
its bitters, had kept some sweets for Mr.
Eyre yet. His innocence, too, was clear,
and men wondered that they could have
doubted him ; even Colonel Busby, with a
sigh, swallowing his suspicions, and hating
him worse than before.

Those who saw him that day — this
terrible man, this monster of evil incarnate,
who had stalked tearless, unheeding through
tragedies at which an angel might have
wept — with a little child clinging to his
hand, prattling, looking up into his face
with perfect trust and love, somehow felt
their conviction of his Seamanship rudely
shaken, and in nearly every breast was

wrought a revulsion of feeling towards
him.

For children rarely love the bad, the cruel,
and the coarse ; their little hands oho straight
to the heart, and they know where they
may love in safety; no deliberate murderer,
no unclean heart, ever wins the childish
trust that is divine, unerring, given royally
at the first glance, and never taken back,
save when most piteously misused.

Perhaps some of the men thought of
how great had been his wife's love for
him, and she had not been one to love
unworthily'; perhaps every woman present
saw that he had dressed the child himself,
and more than one mother's heart yearned
to him as she marked the laboriously tied
bonnet-strings, the clumsily knotted boa,
and smiled, with a tear between, at the
masculine intelligence that had put warm

stockings on, but shod the little one with
brown paper.

Mr. Eyre had glanced neither to right
nor left among the crowd, so that if his
compeers were present that day, he did not
know it, and from first to last gave no one
the opportunity of turning either a friendly
or a cold face towards him.

The day was wild and blustering; he
wrapped his cloak closer about the child as
the service drew to a conclusion, and once
made a gesture of impatience, as though
he would hurry it.

When the coffin was lowered, an incident
occurred that bid fair to reverse the favourable
impression he had so lately produced.
He advanced to the very edge of the grave,
and for a full minute gazed down into its
depths, and with his child's face (his wife's
in miniature) pressed close to his own, Mr.
VOL. I. 7

Eyre had never shown more unfavourably
than in that moment.

His look expressed a bitter forgiveness,
and undying anger, that deepened
moment by moment to one of hatred that
all who ran might read, and in one vivid
flash illumined his past relations with the
dead man, so that the old belief in his
jealousy of his wife and Lord Lovel
strengthened itself in the hearts of the
startled lookers-on.

He seemed neither to see nor heed them,
as he turned abruptly and left the churchyard,
leaving the young pair side by side,
without heeding the young heir, who obeyed
a little commanding hand that beckoned
him over her father's shoulder, so that the
three entered the Towers together.

When the lawyer and others (including
Colonel Busby, who must hear the will

read, or die) came in, they found Mr. Eyre
drying his daughter's shoes by the library
fire, while she was feeding the heir with
cake, and kissing him when her own mouth
was not full.

He was like Doune, only older and
kinder, and her little heart went out to
him at once ; while the boy (who had no
sister, and only a fine-lady cuckoo-mother,
who had never loved him), if he hung his
head, and blushed a little (boys, as I have
said, being so much more modest than girls),
loved her, too, and took her image back
to school with him that day, so that often,
when alone, he would colour again at the
thought of her, and long to feel the touch
of those velvet lips again.

The Duke of Marmiton, who had been
one of those passed unnoticed at the grave,
on entering the room took Mr. Eyre's hand

7—2

very warmly (not seeming to notice that it
was his left, the right idling occupied with
Madcap's shoe), and bade him a hearty
welcome home after his wanderings.

Mr. Eyre met these good wishes kindly,
inquired for the Duchess, and, having dried
the shoes to his satisfaction, put them on,
and told the children to go and play quietly
in a corner till he wanted them.

Meanwhile all waited, as people were
wont to wait for this man, no matter what
might be the rank of those who attended
him ; and when he came back to the fireplace,
and gave the signal to begin, the
lawyer commenced to read like an automaton,
and in less than two minutes,
so simply was the will worded, every
soul present (save the children) knew its

gist.

It was dated three and a half years ago,

and immediately after Lord Lovel had returned
from his long absence with his regiment
abroad.

He bequeathed everything that belonged
to him, unentailed, to Madcap, wife to
Doune Hamilton Eyre, of the Eed Hall ;
and failing her, to her daughter, should she
have one ; if not, to her younger son, Dody ;
and failing him, to her elder son, Doune
Hamilton Eyre.

Ten thousand a year, if it's a penny !'
said Colonel Busby, almost before the lawyer
had ceased to read ; ' but it seems to me
that the money and property will be kept
together;' and he nodded towards the corner
in which the two young heirs were playing,
indifferent to the business talk of their
elders.

As guardian to young Lord Lovel,' said
the lawyer, folding up the will, and addressing

Mr. Eyre, 'you will, of course,
arrange for his holidays, his education, and
so forth, as you have done before. I drew
up his father's will, in which you were appointed
his guardian (though at that time
no one ever supposed he would succeed to
the title), and his mother has asked me to
say that from henceforth she trusts you will
assume a more active guardianship than you
have hitherto done.'

Let him come here when he pleases, or
stay — to the Eed Hall ; he cannot be
much older than Doune, and they can
amuse each other. Tell that very fine lady,
his mother, that she need never try to stifle
herself with country breezes as long as I'm
alive, or leave her young new husband for
an hour to concern herself about her boy —
the only creature his father ever loved.'

Geoffrey Lovel did well to leave his son

in your care,' said the Duke gravely ; ' but
I wish we had Frank here, though he could
not have died better.'

Would to God he lived !' said Mr. Eyre,
with a passion that he had never before
betrayed ; and one man present thought
how finely he wore his mask of hypocrite,
while the others blamed themselves the
more for any doubts they might have
harboured of him.

For gradually (there being no one to keep
order) the room had filled, and many a
friend and tenant of Frank, and Frank's
father, heard Mr. Eyre's words ; so that
when he had picked up his little daughter,
and bade the young heir ' Good-bye till
Christmas,' nodding in farewell to the
lawyer and the rest, he passed out among
men who had already half forgiven him for
his strange behaviour by the grave.

A most extraordinary will, and a strange
guardianship said Colonel Busby, approaching
the Duke, who was drawing on his
gloves, and feeling that while he loved, he
understood Mr. Eyre as little as ever, ' and
a most extraordinary business altogether, I
take it !'

I see nothing strange in any part of it,'
said ^ the Duke coldly. 'The Lovels and
Eyres^have been friends for many generations,
and these two men were extraordinarily
attached to each other, in spite of
of — each wanting to marry the same
lady. As to the guardianship, it is perfectly
natural. Mr. Eyre and Geoffrey Lovel
were intimates, and of about the same age ;
and Mrs. Lovel being a handsome woman '
(the Duke had almost said 'jade,' but just
checked himself in time) and likely to
marry again, he did not wish to leave his

son's prospects at the mercy of a stepfather.'


Well, well,' said Colonel Busby ; ' there's
nothing succeeds like success. He is to
crow over us all, I suppose, just as he did
formerly ; and what's black in other folks is
white in him ; and he'll learn no lesson
himself, but be for ever teaching us ours.'

He has suffered severely,' said the Duke
gravely. ' I was shocked at the change in
him ; and I think ' — here the Duke raised
his voice so that all around heard him — ' it
would be more seemly if further reference
to past scandals ceased, the more especially
as certain infamous rumours spread to Mr.
Eyre's discredit have, during the past few
days, been refuted beyond the shadow of a
doubt.'

His people were in waiting without, and
he went away after he had spoken, bearing

himself well, iu spite of his sixty-five years ;
and immediately after him came the young
heir and the lawyer, who had travelled
down together, and were leaving by the
afternoon train for town.

He's handsome enough, but none so
bonnie as our own Lord Lovel,' was the
verdict passed upon him by the crowd, that
had encroached to the very doors of the
Towers; but as the boy strode on through
the early November dusk he thought nothing
of his inheritance, but only of the Christmas
holidays, when he would once more see
little Madcap — that was her name, as she
had been careful to tell him in the corner
Madcap Eyre.

And in the heavens we now do dwell,
While ye maun trie the fierce fires of held

EOM the moment that Mr. Eyre
had shut the police out, he had
admitted no one to his house
save a stout kitchen wench, whom he had
himself fetched from the village and installed
in the kitchen, forbidding her to
move beyond it, or to receive company
therein, on peril of her instant dismissal.
He did the foraging himself, and would
stalk in with an armful of loaves and flesh ;
but the only culinary point upon which he
showed anxiety was the child's bread and

milk, and this he would have boiled to a
nicety, standing over her so as to confound
the woman, who had hitherto only curtseyed
to him, trembling, from afar.

No trifle that affected the child's health
or happiness was beyond his care or dignity ;
in the recesses of the scullery the woman
often marvelled how ' master ' managed to
keep her so clean and neat, since, by all
accounts, he had never troubled himself
about his other children, or probably seen
one of them dressed or undressed in his
life.

Poor Moll, cut ofi" from the village and
that wing of the house in which the maniac
slept, while only a flickering light in the
nursery revealed Mr. Eyre's whereabouts,
sometimes shuddered of nights, and wondered
if she would be murdered in her
sleep as Mrs. Eyre had been, and none be

hanged for her murder. For Digges had
not been caught yet ; and at every stray
sound the woman started, thinking she
heard his tread, for she was possessed by a
belief that Digges was in the house, having
doubled on his escape, and, knowing every
nook and corner of the place, hidden himself
in one of them, issuing forth at night
like a wolf to seize upon food. But such
issuing forth was dangerous, since, with
pistol in hand, lynx-eyed, and keen of
hearing, each night Mr. Eyre watched from
nightfall till dawn, having by day explored
each place in which a suicide might hang, ora
murderer hide.

The man was here, and, dead or alive,
none but Mr. Eyre should find him ; this he
had vowed when, on the second day after
his return, it became certain that Dishes
had never left the immediate neighbourhood.

The keenest intelligence of Scotland
Yard had not been able to discover
one single trace of him beyond the spot
where he had dropped from the nursery-window
; but Mr. Eyre's firm belief that
he was somewhere within the house was
negatived by the fact that no muddy footprint
or sign of such return was visible in
any portion of the house.

One room only had been kept sacred
from the detectives and other seekers ; this
was the bedroom of the late Mrs. Eyre. He
went to it some two or three times daily,
but spent the greater part of his indoor
existence in the nursery, where, in feeding,
washing, dressing, and amusing Madcap's
child, he found himself sufficiently busy.

He could not endure to call in some
rough village girl to take charge of her ; he
had written to town for such a person as he

wanted, and meantime he could leave the
child alone as often as he pleased, always
happy, always singing, in all things the
promise of that other bright, fondly-cherished
Madcap, whose spring and early
summer-time had belonged to Mr. Eyre.

He found his own independence of
thought and power of endurance curiously
reproduced in this little child of hardly
three years, and perhaps was the more
drawn to her that, though outwardly Madcap's
very copy, inwardly she was himself,
with his own strain of character, courage,
and will.

He blessed Josephine that at least she
had not taught the child fear; however
negligent or unprincipled the Frenchwoman
might have been, she had clearly not been
unkind to her, and she had kept the child's
person and linen exquisitely, so that Mr.

Eyre had no trouble on the score of clothes,
and with clumsy hands kept her as fresh
and clean as a new pin.

From the first she had assisted him with
her superior knowledge of buttons and
strings, accompanied by low gurgles and
chuckles of amusement at his expense that
brought smiles to his grim face, and encouraged
her to further liberties of love.

When, on the night after his return, she
kneeled up close to his breast and said her
evening prayers, he hearkened to her like
one in a dream ; how long ago was it he had
heard such words ? —

hi the Kingdom of Thy grace
Give a little child a place /'

it had been something like this that Dody
was saying one morning when he surprised
the young mother and her boys together,

and he had harshly sent them away from
her.

Oh, heavens, how cruel he had been to
her ! He knew now what it must have
cost her to unwind Dody's arms from about
her neck, how his stifled sobs must have
wrung her heart as the little brothers went
heavily away. . . . she had said to him
once that he knew not the kingdom of love
he missed in his children. Ay, but those
were boys, and this was Madcap ; and the
only true love, the universal love, was as
far from Mr. Eyre's heart now as ever.

The old jealousy of his character, too,
was strong in him yet ; he had winced that
day when the child ran to the heir (for of
the little pantomime by the grave he was
ignorant) and kissed him ; he was jealous
even of Doune, whose name she mentioned
with love in her confidences, revealing her

VOL. I. 8

brother in a new light to that in which
Mr. Eyre had viewed his silent, stubborn
son.

To-night, when she had fallen asleep in
her little cot, Mr. Eyre sat for awhile
watching her as a poor man may who hugs
himself in the joy of a miraculously-found
treasure ; then, taking a light, went to his
wife's room, and, as usual, bent himself
to unriddling the puzzle that room contained.


Sooner or later, he was convinced that
his mind would recover the lost clue that so
eternally baffled him. Some day he would
remember something that had happened in
this room on the night of the murder, and
that he had forgotten ; for the knowledge
was in his brain — perchance in some
diseased cell of it, but it was lieve — and he
knew it.

To-night the grim tussle between will
and memory again began, but with the
usual result ; only that towards midnight
came a strange interruption, and one that
might have chilled the blood of a less strong-nerved
man than Mr. Eyre.

Moll was sound asleep in her distant
kitchen ; the child asleep in the nursery
wing that faced Mr. Eyre as he sat, and in
which a light showed. Josephine's room
was empty, as she had been removed that
morning to the County Asylum, still wearing
the diamonds that Mr. Eyre horsed
might inspire her with some gleam of
memory or revelation.

All, as I have said, being absolutely still,
a slight curious movement in the room attracted
Mr. Eyre's attention, and as he looked
to see whence it proceeded, gradually the door
of a large hanging press in the dim distance

8—2

opened, so slowly and deliberately that it
seemed to be half pushed, half detained, by
an invisible hand.

As Mr. Eyre gazed, he saw through the
widening aperture the face of Digges, pale,
and with a look of reproach, but neither
advancing nor retreating, as Mr. Eyre sprang
up and approached him.

His feet were on the ground, his arms
hung to his sides ; but as Mr. Eyre seized
one of them, the figure swung forward
loosely, and as if it trod on air.

As Mr. Eyre shook it, he realized the
truth, and knew that once more, and this
time finally, the truth had escaped him.
The man had probably been hanging here
since within an hour of his master's first
return, selecting the very room in which
the murder had been committed to put an
end to his own life.

Here might have been found by some an
evidence of his guilt ; but Mr. Eyre had
studied the man's face to some purpose
before he called in the police next morning,
and though he found intense terror and
agony stamped on the gardener's features,
he could not detect the look of the murderer
who leaps into Eternity, fearing to come
face to face with his victim.

But none held with Mr. Eyre's belief in
the man's innocence ; and it was only by
the exertion of great influence that the
master of the Ked Hall obtained for him
Christian burial, while for many years to
come the little children at play in the
churchyard avoided the grave of one who
was now accepted by all as the murderer
of Mrs. Eyre.

But curse not him ; perhaps now he,
Stung with remorse is blessing thee.
Perhaps at death ; for who can tell
Whether the Judge of heaven and hell
By some proud foe has struck the blow .?'

'R. EYRE was now at leisure to
think about Hester Clarke, and
the very day after Digges' hardly-won
burial, he went into the village, and
going first to the house in which she had
lodged, got there nearly all the information
he wanted.

The house was his own ; the woman who
answered his questions a tenant who paid
her rent irregularly ; yet she replied to

Mr. Eyre's questions with bare outward
respect, and the current answers that truth
permitted.

Hester Clarke had left the place on the
morning after the funeral of Mrs. Eyre and
her child. She had announced her intention
of joining her former servant, Janet Stork,
now undergoing penal servitude for the
murder of Hester Clarke's child.

Mr. Eyre asked if there had been any
interview between the woman Clarke and
Lord Lovel the night before she left.

Woman, sir I' said Mr. Eyre's tenant,
as if she felt keenly his insult to the whole
sex ; ' well, none but a woman would have
spent a whole November night face downwards
on wet sods. When I got her home
at dawn there was as little life in her as her
worst enemy could have wished.'

She saw Lord Lovel before she left V

said Mr. Eyre, reading the woman's soul like
an open page.

Ay ; but I don't know all lie said to
her. It seemed to me, from a word or two
I caught, as if they was agreed to shield
some guilty person ' — here the woman's
cold eyes scanned Mr. Eyre ; ' but I heard
nought about the innocent being made to
suffer, and Digges deserved honest burial as
much as I do.'

So whatever secret knowledge Frank
had, Hester shares it,' thought Mr. Eyre,
looking round at the humbly furnished
room that he had only hitherto seen from
without, then turned to the woman and
said :

'You have heard from Hester Clarke ?'

Ay — once by whiles.'

She is permitted to see Janet Stork ?'
Ay — once by whiles.'

She has thoughts of coming back T
That's as may be. There's some to
whom she'd be none so welcome.'

Tell her, when you write said Mr.
Eyre, ' that the sooner she comes home the
better ; and, if she doesn't, that I shall go
out to fetch her. We have some scores to
settle, she and I.'

I'll tell her, sir,' said the woman, dropping
an abrupt curtsey as he opened the
door to depart ; ' but I think the place is
hardly safe for her — she's best where she
is.'

But she will come here, all the same,'
said Mr. Eyre carelessly. ' By-the-way,
you have altered the arrangement of this
room ; that chair used to stand lieve and
he pointed to a particular spot.

Yes, sir,' said the woman, in her rigidly
civil, sullen way; 'but after the tramp's

evidence at the trial, I moved it, lest folks
might be tempted again to shoot if anyone
happened to be sitting there by
night. '

To shoot ?' said Mr. Eyre, looking at her
keenly.

'Another murder besides the one committed
at the Red Hall three years ago, was
as near as possible committed in this room
that night, as you are well aware, sir,' said
the woman ; ' only the man who dodged
about with his pistol outside yonder
window thought better of killing Hester
Clarke, and went away, perhaps to kill that
poor young lady, your wife ; but God alone
knows.'

Ay,' said Mr. Eyre, ' and I'll know, too,
before I've done. So you never thought
her guilty V he added, his eyes reading the
woman's soul.

She V said the woman incredulously.
I got to know her through and through
in the six months she was here — and she
was a good woman to her heart's core.'

Mr. Eyre thought of Madcap, and how
she might be alive now but for Hester
Clarke's crossing his path, and bringing to
light a buried sin, and his stern features
darkened as he turned to go.

She has bribed you, I suppose he said.
*Well, give her my message when you
write ;' and he went out.

The woman stood looking after him
awhile as he mounted his horse and rode
away, the hatred of her glance dying out
in slow, bitter tears, that seemed to furrow
her cheeks as they fell. '

Loved her, wronged her, hated her, and
would have hanged her if he could — he
tried hard enough,' she muttered aloud, as

Mr. Eyre disappeared ; ' and Hester never
did him any harm, never thought it, but
just stayed on and on, because she couldn't
tear herself away from his child, the image
of her own, that got drowned by Janet's
misadventure ; for Janet never meant to
kill it, though she's got fifteen years' penal
for it, and I doubt if she'll ever come out
alive. And Hester will stick by her — only
to think of that beautiful creature set
among felons ! I never saw her match
for looks ; even our poor young lady (God
bless her, and God pity her for being
wife to such .a man !) couldn't touch her
there.'

The woman dried her eyes, and looked
round before she pulled down the blind
that she had drawn up in Mr. Eyre's
honour.

So he remembered that, and how the

chair stood ; I wonder he wasn't afraid to
say so — but he fears nothing ; he's the
Devil himself ! And she never said a word
agen him — 'twas only what I heard at the
trial, and through the keyhole when Lord
Lovel came, that I glimpsed her heart.
Perhaps I'd been a bit cold-like at first when
she came to lodge here — knowing she'd
been a mother and no wife, and Lord
Lovel said to be the father of the child.
But not a blink of harm could I ever see
between the two ; and he never crossed the
threshold but once, the morning Lord
Lovel set out for foreign parts. I'll write
the message, sure enough, and tell her
Digges is found out to be the murderer —
for dead tongues can't speak, and perhaps
those that can, won't ; and so here's the
Devil over-riding us all again, as if there
was no heaven above. Write to her ! To

be sure I will, and warn her, too — we want
no more murders here.'

But Mr. Eyre, as he rode homewards,
thought little of the woman's significance
of manner : his mind was occupied with the
main fact that Hester Clarke was within
reach of a month's voyage, and that at any
given time he could lay his hand on her ;
and this certainty enabled him to turn without
haste to the remodelling of his establishment,
and other affairs that had fallen
somewhat into neglect during his long
absence.

To be sure, he had left an agent in
charge of his estate, and the man had done
well, but not too well ; so that Mr. Eyre
for many days found duty out of doors,
after which he took his pleasure within.

The nurse had arrived from town, a
woman in early middle age, who had lost

both husband and children, and so understood
little Madcap, who now occupied her
new nurseries opposite Mr. Eyre's bedroom,
so that he could see her at any moment,
whether he crossed to her, or she to him.

People marvelled that he should care to
sleep in his late wife's bedroom, the scene
of two tragedies ; but since the child had
no fear of the room, neither had he, and
their pranks were carried on morning and
evening, as Madcap Eyre would have loved
hers with her boys to be, had their father
only permitted it. If a housemaid crossed
the threshold shuddering, and Mr. Eyre saw
it, he sent her away, saying he would have
no servant with diseased nerves in his house;
and as the regular staff of domestics was
gradually made up, assuredly none but
strong-nerved persons found themselves
appointed, though they experienced little

enough to alarm them. Mr. Eyre neither
walked in his sleep, rose at unholy hours,
nor sot into rages ; and the household
quickly became as quiet and orderly an
one as was to be found in the whole
county.

Where he had laid his routine of life
down, three years ago, he now took it up,
without a lost stitch ; nothing was omitted
or forgotten. And when he took his place
on the bench with his brother magistrates,
it was with the old impulse of admiration
that they welcomed him.

He had done amiss, but in their thoughts
they had wronged him, and the Duke's
example was not to be gainsaid ; while
those who had a secret sin or two on their
consciences felt the more warmly to him,
as one who had vicariously borne their
punishment, so that the attitude of the

whole county was friendly, and a considerable
surprise to Mr. Eyre. This was the
second time that he had rehabilitated himself
in his world's esteem ; and Colonel
Busby, standing aloof, mused to some purpose
on the folly of human nature, though
to very little effect on his own.

His curiosity was so insatiable, that he
could not give up visiting at the Eed Hall,
and so consenting to the iniquity of Mr.
Eyre's presence among his peers ; but he
found little enough to reward his investigations
there. Mr. Eyre's life was that of a
simple, everyday country gentleman of large
estates, who devoted all his spare time to
a little daughter ; so that often you would
meet the pair on foot, or even on horseback,
she on the saddle before him, with
the reins in her hands (though he held
them too), and delighted with the fancied

VOL. I. 9

skill that urged on or restrained the
favourite black that Mr. Eyre invariably
rode.

They came to be a familiar enough sight
in the village, where formerly Mr. Eyre had
been rarely seen, save by his wife's side ;
and the women pitied, and the men forgave
him his past as, day by day, he went among
them, always with the little child, whom heled
carefully, and not as an ignorant or
heedless mother would, suffering her to fall
into danger ; while his cloak was ever ready
to receive her when she showed fatigue ;
and in all this no touch of ridicule attached
itself to the stern, proud man.

But though outwardly her slave, he demanded,
and got, a due subservience of
conduct, both at home and abroad, that he
had not obtained by coercion, but by a
curiously mutual concession of wills.

She was so fearless, and his own fibre
was so strong in her, that anyone but he
might have taken her courage for obstinacy ;
but he knew better, and by no restraint or
harshness would have shaken a feather
from the crown of independence that sat
so well upon her baby brows. For when
the child came to him in the depths of his
despair, he got a glimpse of a life beyond —
as a streak of light on the ocean will show
to one who stands in the darkness on a
storm-encircled promontory: and beyond
himself he saw something for which he
might live, while for himself he could
only die.

Here was the aftermath of his life, as
the furze cropped by the lambs in spring
bursts out defiantly in golden autumn
blossom, delighting the gazer with unex-

9—2

petted riches, and knowing itself secure
from any such second destruction.

By the time little Madcap was grown up,
the story of her mother and his own sin
would be forgotten ; and as he had shielded
her mother from that knowledge, so he
would make shift to shield her daughter
after her.

Already he was used to the strong, fresh
current of healthy life that a child brings
with it ; already he was learning the unselfishness
that a child's daily presence
teaches one, and by degrees his soul and
mind opened to the beauty and preciousness
of that ' children's kingdom ' that is
ever among us, and by which we might
keep our hearts pure and undefiled, would
we but oftener seek to enter it.

For in the love for little children is no
passion, only a yearning tenderness, through

which the universal, the only true love is
learnt ; and those who watched Mr. Eyre,
said that the will of the man was learning
submission to his Maker through his heart,
and that by the hand of a little child was he
being led back to God.

For every Sunday you would see the
pair in church, though in his wife's lifetime
he had not gone there a score of times, and
this regularity of attendance had been
inaugurated by the little one herself in
those first days when Mr. Eyre was entirely
her slave.

Bells going — church-time,' she had said,
standing still to listen, the first Sunday
morning after Mr. Eyre's return ; ' come
along,' she added, pulling at his hand.

And so they went through the village
together, past the older Madcap's grave, and
Frank's fresh one, appalling the sanctimonious,

and rejoicing the villagers by the
unorthodoxy of their appearance.

I think that most of us are conscious of a
desire sometimes to be able to 2:0 back to
the traditions and beliefs of our youth. A
line from an old hymn, the turn of a well-remembered
tune, will for a moment renew
in us the devout, unquestioning faith of our
early years, so that we return to our everyday
life with a curious sense of its worthlessness
and our shame.

And as a man who thrusts a cup of healing
from his lips, crying out that he
loathes, though he has never tasted it, so
until now Mr. Eyre had disliked children —
those crystal shapes that, so long as we do
not try to cast them to our own mould,
keep their Divine freshness.

His books became stale to him beside
this fresh and exquisite page of childhood,

over which he gathered fresh
draughts of strength and happiness as he
read.

To hear her sing, in that little pure, thin,
sweet voice, unlike anything else in the
world (and that is to sound what the
freshness of dawn is to morning), gave him
a queer thrill of joy ; while her prayers,
said at his knee, brought to his eyes that
intolerable smart which is a strong man's
way of weeping.

You not a bad man,' she cried one
night, in a passionate burst of tears, when
some hasty expressions of anguish escaped
him ; and in this, perhaps, lay her strength ,
that she trusted, and was absolutely fearless
of him, as her mother had been ; so that
she reinstated him in his self-esteem, and,
secure in the worship of the only thing he
loved, Mr. Eyre faced his world defiantly,

as of old, not caring one rush for its evil or
good opinion.

Children grow towards you, men and
women away from you ; and every day Mr.
Eyre felt more secure of his treasure, tested
more jealously the docility, courage, and
beauty of the spirit that had his wife's finer
qualities, and his own strength.

Harshness was not needed here, and on
one occasion only he had nerved himself
to punish her, and then by solitary confinement.


But, as he turned the key on her, he felt
as though it were his own idolized wife that
he treated thus harshly, and anxiously
listened for the first sound from within.

For a full minute there was silence ; then
toddling steps approached the door, and a
young, sternly rebuking voice said through
the keyhole :

Dad ! are you good now T

Before the inexhaustible dignity of childhood,
the man's sank, leaving only the better
part, so that he was often engaged in offices
for her that he would formerly have despised.


But his was not that fondness for her
which would —

Nourish the frame, destroy the mind.
Thus do the blind mislead the blind,
E'en with a mother's love . . .'

only as yet he found no seeds of evil to
check, nor any one of those outbursts of
temper that he had often observed in his
eldest son.

Yet, on looking back, Mr. Eyre prided
himself on the thought that, if he had been
harsh with his boys, he had at least never
oppressed or punished them. And, indeed,
the struggle for supremacy between the

grown-up being and the child must always
be an ignominious one ; the result is always
a foregone conclusion, and the crueller weare,
the surer we are of the victory. And if
we cannot think with the child's mind, weare
apt to look upon his troubles as trifling,
though, if our memory for suffering were
not so faint, we should remember what
agony those childish troubles were to us
once ; how their intensity was increased by
the narrow scope of a child's mind, everything
to it bounded by the present, the utmost
stretch of imagination never carrying
it beyond * tomorrow.' Its miniature
powers do not enable it to look around, and
take comfort in reflection ; it only intensely
comprehends its present hour of misery.
And if one doubts that children surer even
more keenly than grown people, let them
read from time to time in the newspapers

of some poor maddened child, who, in the
unbearable agony of spirit that possesses
him at some needlessly harsh reproof or
barbarous punishment, wanders out, his
numbed, helpless brain in a whir], and,
unable to look beyond, as a grown person
would, takes the irrevocable step that
plunges it into Eternity.

For the harsh, cruel words that would
take no effect on a man or woman, are
literally accepted by a child, and may
prove the turning-point of his life (if it do
not drive him to despair), hardening firmness
to obstinacy, gentleness to cowardice,
and weakness to vice.

To such a fate as this, Mr. Eyre had unconsciously
done his best to drive the boy whom
he took pride to himself that he had never
punished. True, he had never beaten him,
nor even been unduly harsh, save when the

child diverted his mother's attention from
himself ; but when that mother died, the
mother whom the boy worshipped, and who
had been the religion of his young life, the
father had not a thought to give to the five-year
-old boy whose heart was silently
breaking in the loneliness of his nursery,
and in whose mind was slowly growing a
repressed, bitter sense of ill-usage that
might warp his character for ever.

Doune knew that his younger brother
Dody had been his mother's favourite child ;
but this could not affect his silent, intense
love for her, and full well he knew that she
had loved him too. If she had petted his
brother more than him, it was because the
two were so utterly unlike in disposition —
Doune all strength, Dody all sweetness ;
Doune passionate, proud, unforgiving, very
rarely showing a sign of affection for even

his mother, in all essentials the opposite of
Dody, who seemed made expressly to win
love. An impression once made upon the
boy seemed indelible, and his father's harshness
had gradually alienated the child's
heart from him so entirely that it seemed
impossible there could be any cordial understanding
between them in the future.

But the one tie that bound the boy to
life, that saved him from some rash deed of
despair, was the baby-sister that his mother
had left in the nursery when she went away,
and Dody had so gladly and quickly
followed her.

It was a girl, and it had been named
after his mother, and might grow up like
her ; and hour after hour the boy would sit
by the little frail babe, whose every hour
threatened to be her last, so that when he
was taken away to school, he kissed the

tiny face with a bitter black despair in his
young heart, thinking that he would see
her, too, no more.

Mr. Eyre was entirely ignorant of the
antagonism to him in his young son's mind ;
he had never given him half a dozen consecutive
thoughts in his life, and, having
sent him to school before his departure for
abroad, did not even remember him till the
night of his return home. The boy was
well enough, no doubt ; as to his holidays,
no doubt the lawyers had provided about
that, or so Mr. Eyre thought, till one day
little Madcap began talking about her
brother, she having to all appearance
entirely forgotten him, until an accident
brought him to her mind.

Mr. Eyre was holding the younger Madcap
up to the portrait of the older one,
which had been painted in the heyday of

her youth and love ; but the child, after
gravely looking at it, shook her head and
said :

I dont remember her !'

That is your mother said Mr. Eyre.

No ! that's a young gell,' said little
Madcap, still disbelieving ; ' but Downy
come here every day, and talks, and talks,
and talks to her, and sometimes he fall
sound to sleep, and Joey and me cant
wake him up. Perhaps he doesn't like to
leave her up there all by her lone self.'

The little wistful ignorant face smote Mr.
Eyre with the first pang for his son that he
head ever known, but there was jealousy in
his voice as he said :

You love your brother Doune V

She nodded her bright head emphatically.


When's Risus V she said. ' Downy

come home Risus, and Dad shall make usa
Risus-tree !'

Mr. Eyre made a grimace as he carried
Madcap away ; but to her every extortion
he submitted, since for each sin of omission
to Dody, he now paid with fifty of self-sacrifice
to his little daughter, perhaps with
some secret hope that his wife knew it, and
accepted this expiation of his hitherto
neglected duties of fatherhood. He would
be kind even to Doune for her sake ; and no
doubt the boy still remembered his mother,
though he had been a stubborn, silent child,
without a trace of her nature in him, and
full now, no doubt, of his school-pursuits
beyond the comprehension of a baby-sister.

Yet already that instinct of jealousy,
which had never so much as a shadow to pass
betwixt him and what he loved, was
awakened in Mr. Eyre, and unconsciously he

watched the child each day, feeling himself
wounded if in her talk Doune's name
was uttered.

That night he wrote to his lawyers for an
account of Doune's holidays in his absence,
and by return of post read that no arrangements
having been made for the boy's
Easter, Midsummer, and Christmas, he had
spent them at the Eed Hall with his sister,
having resolutely run away homewards
from school each time his holidays were
due, till, to save scandal, he was formally
permitted to return, as no doubt Mr. Eyre
(though he had accidentally overlooked the
matter) would have wished. It was early
in December when Mr. Eyre got this letter,
so that in a fortnight, or thereabouts, the
boy would be here ; but pera-ps he did not
realize how profound a change Donc
might work in his everyday life, till one
VOL. I. 10

morning when little Madcap ran into his
bedroom, in her hand an unopened letter.

It was addressed to her own sweet, small
self, and she kissed it lavishly before she
laboriously undid the envelope and permitted
' dad ' to read it to her.

"Darling Madcap '" (ran this letter from
the eight-year-old boy, laboriously written
down to the comprehension of three years), —
^ " I shall be home very soon. You get Joey
to put fourteen apples in a row, and you eat
one every day, and when you come to the
very last one, you will see me. I hear
father has come home, but don't you be afraid
of him ; he won t beat you, and soon you'll
have me to take care of you. Tell Joey to
be sure and dust mother's picture every day.
I shall be able to do it myself without the
steps soon, and tell Digges, with my love,

not to forget the flowers for the place where
you and I go every morning, and where
we'll go again when I come back. I have
got you a doll that opens and shuts its

eyes

I'd rather have you or Doony to talk
to,' said Madcap the younger, wrinkling up
her small nose with an air of disgust ; ' dolls
never says nothing /'

"And a white rabbit'" resumed Mr. Eyre,
reading ; * " and I'm going to teach you your
alphabet ; mother taught me mine when I
was only two. I shall make the white rabbit
a hutch in the nursery, so that you can run
in through my room of a morning to look at
it without catching a cold ; and I hope
Joey keeps your feet dry, because poor
Dody died from getting his feet wet, you
know'"

10—2

Going out without any shoes or stockings
to pick a birthday-gift for mamma,'
said little Madcap, nodding.

" And if you were to die, I should drown
myself, and no one would be sorry except
Digges. And don't you cry, if father is unkind
to you ; only cowards cry ; and Til
take care of you safe enough when I come
back. Good-bye, and God bless you, ducks
little Madcap, and with my dearest love
and a kiss,

I am, your ever-loving brother,

'"DOUNE."'

Dear Doony !' said the child ; ' and a
white rabbit ' — she hugged herself all up
together for joy. ' Have to go back to my
nursery now, and leave dad — poor old dad !
Naughty Doony, to say you're cross ; you're

always kind to me, and I'm kind to you,
parent I V

But for the first time since those
dimpled arms had stolen round his neck,
Mr. Eyre unloosed them, and set her
down, his jealous soul angrily realizing
that he possessed only a half-share — not the
whole of her heart, and that Doune had got
three years' start of him in her love.

From that moment the silent struggle
between father and son began ; and in both
hearts the hostile spirit burned clear and
strong, for the man had learned no lesson ;
here was his old selfishness of character
over again, and he was repeating the very
sin (his only one in her eyes) that had so
wounded his wife, and made her exceeding
love for her children as a joy but half-tasted,
since he would not share it.

But after that one impulse of anger

against his little daughter because he was
not the only human being that she loved, he
devoted himself to her more than ever,
riveting her to himself more closely with
fresh chains each day, and putting forth his
every charm and power of commanding
love to win the simple, tender heart of the
three-years old child, in whose breast he
must be first or nothing.

And out of the full cup of her childish
tender heart she repaid him richly, looking
to him more and more each day, so that
she even forgot Doune's home-coming, and
did not remember the fourteen apples that
she was to count and eat, one for each day,
though Mr. Eyre reckoned the very hours
grudgingly, enjoying them with a zest that
uncertainty always roused in him, though
other men might meet it with dread.

He was paltry in nothing, and that very

day gave orders that Doune's old room
should be prepared, and Madcap's abandoned
nurseries refreshed and made comfortable
for her return. However he might miss
the little morning footsteps that were
wont to patter over to his door so early
that he had given up reading of nights
since he was wakened at cockcrow, he never
thought of dividing the children. He would
be no tyrant ; not one single restriction of
duty to himself should hedge in his little
daughter's heart. Free as air she should
come and go, make her choice between him
and Doune ; for that any human being
could love two persons equally was beyond
Mr. Eyre's understanding.

Yet his wife had been able to love — not
one, but three — equally; she had fused
children and husband alike into one perfect
love that had filled her life with a song of

joy, to which soul and body danced a measure
far beyond the power or comprehension of a
Mr. E3n:e.

Grimly he counted the hours to Doune's
return — even took down from his library-shelves
some of those books that had grown
stale to him since his new readings had
begun, and arranged to go into certain
matters of business with his steward that
had for above a month been waiting his
attention. He would have time enough
for all such things when once the children
were together ; but the night before Doune's
return Mr. Eyre sat so long by his little
daughter's bedside that the nurse fell asleep
from weariness in the adjoining room.

,^>m$

CHAPTER X.

Alone among his young compeers
Was Brian from his youthful years. '

K. EYRE did not go down to the
station to meet his son, but sent
little Madcap and her nurse ; so
that when the tall, handsome lad jumped
out of the train, a little unexpected toddling
shape rushed into his arms with a shout of
joy, and kissed him with all her soul.

Darling, ducks Madcap !' said the boy,
devouring the velvet cheek of his idol; 'and
I've got the rabbit here all safe — and what
a smart little girl it is !' he added, as he
put her down.

Dot a new muff,' she said, showing her
unusual finery with pride ; ' and a new
bonnet ' (she pushed it to one side), ' and
new boots — lots of buttons,' and she extended
one pretty leg, and held up her
petticoats to show it ; ' and lots of new
frocks at home — haven't I, Nan V

Yes, Miss Madcap,' said the nurse ;
you've got plenty.'

But where is Josephine V said the boy,
looking at the woman ; ' has father sent her
away?' and the hot blood showed in his
cheek as he spoke.

Oh no,' said little Madcap, as her nurse
hesitated ; ' I think she's sick ; she's corn
away ever so long ago. Oh, what a dear
little rabbit !' she added, peeping into the
covered basket Doune carried.

And in her excitement over it, the boy's
frown vanished ; and soon the young pair

were driving towards Lovel, the nurse
being seated beside the coachman, so that
there was no hindrance to the children's
talk.

How is Digges ?' said the boy presently.

I hope he's kept my dog all safe,
and '

Oh, Digges is corn too,' said little
Madcap ; ' he went away before Joe}'- ;
'specks something's happened to him — poor
Digges r

So that's how my father is beginning,'
thought the boy, with darkening brows ;

they were good enough to take care of
Madcap for years, but he cleans them out
directly he comes back ;' only perhaps he
did not use these exact words, though this
was the gist of his eight-years-old
thoughts.

'Never mind, ducks,' he said, as he put

his young arm round her, ' Til take care of
you now ; and we'll have a merry Christmas
all to our own selves, for he won't trouble
us much.'

But Madcap was too much taken up with
the white rabbit to notice the allusion to
her father, and had, indeed, altogether forgotten
him till some accident should bring
him to her mind.

The sun was setting in blood-red behind
the furze-crowned rock that gave Mr. Eyre's
house its name, as the children approached
it ; but Doune looked first towards his
mother's room, the window of which now
stood open.

At the house-door there were servants
only to receive them ; and at once the boy
suffered himself to be led away to the
nursery, where, finding everything just as
it used to be, his spirits rose, and he busied

himself about looking over old belongings,
and arranging fresh ones.

The nurse had gone to the garden to
fetch food for the rabbit, and not until the
two were half-way through a gorgeous tea
did Madcap remember her father.

Doune saw her eyes suddenly widen as
she put the morsel down untouched she was
carrying to her lips, and wondered what
was coming, as she lifted two dimpled hands
in a child's dramatic way, and, nodding with
intense gravity, ejaculated :

Doune stared. When had he and Dody
ever called that terrible man anything but
father'?

Poor old dad /' said Madcap, in an
accent of intense pity. * I've (suite forgot
him ; come along of me and see him.'

She had got down from her high chair,

and pulled at the boy's hand as she spoke ;
but though he went with her, it was unwillingly,
and with his heart hardening at
every step.

Mr. Eyre, busy with his steward, heard
those short and longer steps approaching
his study, but did not look up, even
when the door opened, and the young pair
came in.

Dad /' cried little Madcap, rushing to
her father and throwing her arms round
his neck in an irrepressible burst of joy,
here's Doony — Doony's come 'one !'

The boy stood where his sister had left
him, and over Madcap's head the eyes of
father and son met, and the hostile spirit in
each heart strengthened ; but as the boy
did not stir, neither did Mr. Eyre ; and if in
this moment the former failed in respect, so
assuredly did Mr. Eyre in his duty towards

the motherless lad whom he had not seen
these three years.

If the one had made a single step forward,
if the other had beckoned ; or perhaps if
the slender, dark, stubborn boy had borne
ever such a faint resemblance to Madcap, or
owned a tithe of Dody's winning ways, Mr.
Eyre might have given him some cold
corner in his affections ; as it was, in every
line of the boy's defiant face and figure he
saw himself— that ugly self from which he
had lately turned aside with loathing.

The scene that made father and son
avowed enemies lasted scarcely as long as
the kisses little Madcap was remorsefully
showering on her father.

'Me and Doony having tea now she
said, scrambling out of the arms that held
her but loosely; * we'll come back bimeby.'

And, without a backward thought or look.

ran to Doune, and vanished with him through
the open door.

Mr. Eyre resumed his business on the
instant, as if no frivolous interruption had
occurred ; but when the man had left, he
went to the window, and looked to see
what lights had been kindled in the nursery
wing facing him.

There was only one in the day-nursery,
but Mr. Eyre remembered Doune's care of
his little sister's feet, and had no fear that
the two were abroad ; only as he dropped
the blind it struck him that his wife from
opposite might even thus have watched Ms
light, as hour after hour he sat among his
books, leaving her lonely, save for her
children.

On the very night that she died, he had
so left her on some paltry errand of scribbling,
though on this occasion she had

Lord Lovel to bear her company, and to
Mr. Eyre the hours had passed unheeded,
till the cry of ^ Murder ' roused him, and he
had ascended the private staircase to find
her unconscious, and stabbed to the heart.

But to-night the neglect lay not with
him, but with Madcap's daughter, who had
not a thought to give to the man who presently
ate his solitary dinner and dessert
without a ripple of the tender voice that had
been wont to adorn it. His dinner-hour
had long been put back to six in recognition
of her bedtime, which was seven ; but
eight had struck, and Mr. Eyre was in his
study, when a knock at the door sounded,
and Madcap's nurse set her down inside it,
half asleep, and bundled up in shawls.
She climbed on to his knee with difficulty,
and pushed his book away.

Come to say my "pairs /' she said ; and

VOL. I. 11

the next moment had fallen sound asleep on
his shoulder.

Mr. Eyre signed to the woman to go,
and with exultation thought that at least
the child had remembered him twice in all
the rapture of Doune's return ; and when
in an hour's time he carried her back to the
nursery, he had so far softened towards the
boy that had they met then, a better feeling
might have been established between
them.

But Doune was not there ; with jealous
heart, and counting each moment an
eternity, he had for a long while waited
his little sister's return ; but when half an
hour had passed, he went where he had
always gone when in trouble — to his
mother's picture. No matter that the room
was in darkness : she was there, a livings,
abiding reality to him, and all things good

and evil in his heart he laid before those
lovely mother's eyes that never failed to
bring healing to his soul.

Mother,' he said aloud, and with his
hand on the picture, ' she is my little baby ;
you gave her into my charge, and I've
taken care of her ; and now father's taking
her away from me, as he used to try to take
you away. If only you could come down
and speak to me, mother, mother !'

But next morning broke fair and bright,
and the boy was wakened by little Madcap,
who ran in, guiltless of offence ; and when
they had breakfasted together, went out on
one of those delightful rambles that included
every kennel, piggery, and dovecot
upon the estate. The boy missed Digges
at every turn ; but, as by Mr. Eyre's express
commands Doune was kept in ignorance of
what had lately occurred, he supposed that

11—2

Josephine and her husband had been sent
away for some fault displeasing to his
father.

Both man and wife had been kind to the
neglected children in their way, and served
them honestly, whether from fear of Mr.
Eyre's unexpected return, or in part to
expiate their secret guilt might never be
known.

Doune's spirits had been steadily rising
all the morning ; and when, with blooming
roses on their cheeks, they returned home a
little after one, to find a real schoolboy's
dinner ready in the nursery, the boy (who
had been dreading lunch with his father)
threw off the last of the jealous fears that
had tormented him over-night, and, kissing
his ' darling, ducks Madcap,' sat down with
her joyfully to their feast.

Nothing had been forgotten that a boy

fresh from school could desire, and the
nurse smiled as she served him ; and Madcap
thumped the table approvingly with
her spoon when he ate three helpings of
pudding.

The woman thought Mr. Eyre was behaving
very well in thus giving up the
child to her brother, not knowing that he as
equally avoided the appearance of jealousy
as hitherto he had avoided its reality,
regarding it as a despicable vice of the
weak — not one that ever attacked the
strong: . He remained within doors all that
day ; but none came to disturb him, though
afar off he heard the children's voices, and
even caught a glimpse of them once or
twice in the garden.

He recognised the carefulness that housed
Madcap safely before the dews fell ; but
when lights were kindled in the opposite

wing, he wrapped himself in his cloak, and
went through the village to a spot that he
rarely left unvisited for a day.

But others had been before him on this
occasion, for a wreath of daisies lay on his
wife's grave, and sprigs of sweet-smelling
things laid here and there, by a boy's
formal hand ; and Mr. Eyre thought
jealously that his son claimed the older as
well as the younger Madcap, though she
had never for one second placed her children
before her husband.

Or so he had believed — did he believe it
now, when the living Madcap was shouldering
away her mother's image, and his
thoughts to-night were less of grief for the
lost than jealousy for the living ?

His life was emphatically a march onwards.
He could die, but he could not
stagnate ; and stagnation seemed to have

come to him to-night, as he told himself
that Doune was first, would always be first,
in the child's heart. And if so, then, no
matter what it cost him, he would leave
her, let her cling to Doune, make him her
sole idol ; for himself, no second place in
any human heart would he accept.

On his way home he went to Synge Lane,
and asked Hester Clarke's friend if she had
delivered the message he sent.

The woman replied that she had sent it,
but did not expect a reply.

Then I shall have to go to her,' said Mr.
Eyre, as he departed ; and at the thought
the blood stirred like sap in his veins, for
vengeance (though put by during the past
weeks) had yet to be satisfied, and it would
require no great effort to break his home-fetters,
and go forth once more on the quest
that hitherto had ended but in failure.

But when, long after his dinner-hour, Mr.
Eyre reached his study, to find a token of
little Madcap's late presence in the shape of
a dropped shoe-knot, he picked it up, and
half forgave her, though not the faintest
intention crossed his mind to return her
good-night visit.

Next day was cold and wet, and the
children did not stir abroad ; but, lest dulness
should draw her to him, Mr. Eyre
went out for a long ride, that lasted
till after dark ; and on his return home,
knew well enough that no such spasm
of recollection as had seized her the
night before had reminded her of him
to-night.

For a child of three is essentially ,
and has no memory (save at odd
moments) ; it goes where love is, but rarely
seeks it, so that Mr. Eyre receded into the

background, and Doune occupied Madcap's
whole thoughts just now.

The man had girded up himself to the
fight ; but who can fight with a child's
whim ? Fickle ? No more natural phase of
Nature can be found than a healthy child ;
and Nature knows no such word as 'faithfulness
and in its very elements is opposed to
the strained idea that has brought about
half the tragedies the world has ever seen.

But as Mr. Eyre's jealousy grew, Doune's
slackened, so that the boy in his turn
softened towards his father, and prompted
those excursions to the other side of the
house, from which each day she returned
more quickly, with no account to give of
herself, save that dad was ' busy.'

The boy was honourable, and never tried
by word or look to set her against her father.
There was no bad blood in his veins, and

with other treatment might yet grow up
the noble ' might have been ' of Mr. Eyre's
own youth.

But while the children played, and were
happy, he was unconsciously preparing his
revenge in the invitation he had carelessly
given young Lord Lovel, and which he had
supplemented by a letter to his mother,
the answer to which he received a week
after Doune's return.

She would be only too rejoiced to send
the boy to Mr. Eyre ; he always drove her
mad during the holidays, and no doubt at
the Eed Hall he would be able to rampage
to his heart's content ; and her own young
babies required all her care, and her health
was so indifferent, etc., etc. ; and she could
never stand more than a week in the
country, even for dear Ally and his hunting
; and in conclusion, her son (who seemed

to have come in for nothing but a house
and an empty title, which his father never
expected) would arrive at his guardians
house the very next day by a certain train
that she was particular to mention.

Mr. Eyre smiled grimly as he read the
letter, and thought of the writer, a faded
beauty, who at thirty-five had taken for a
rich second husband a young man of
twenty, and hated the boy who reminded
her perpetually of the date of her first
marriage.

Mr. Eyre ordered little Madcap's late
room (opposite his own) to be made ready,
and the same day drove over alone to meet
Lord Lovel's heir.

Doune heard by chance of the expected
arrival, and thought bitterly that it was
like his father to give the welcome to a
stranger that he refused to his own son.

No doubt the fellow would be a proud,
supercilious ass, who would look down on
his own and Madcap's pursuits ; and this
would be so much the better if he would
only stick to Mr. Eyre's own side of the
house, and not trouble them.

He said nothing to his sister — how could
she understand ? x\nd he did not know
that the two had already met at Lord
Lovel's funeral, and become friends beside
his grave.

Meanwhile Mr. Eyre received the boy,
who came eagerly to meet him, thinking of
little Madcap, and rejoiced to escape from
the tyranny of holidays in Eaton Square.

As Mr. Eyre looked at the clear-faced
lad, sunny-haired, and ^ bright of blue,' as
all the Lovels were, it struck him for the
first time that he and Doune could not be
more than a year apart in age, yet how

different in looks, bearing, and attractiveness!


Mr. Eyre thought he might have loved
such a son as this, as they went back together
to the Eed Hall, for the boy was
fearless of him, and had, moreover, taken a
liking weeks ago to the stern-faced man,
against whom his mind had not yet been
poisoned by scandal.

Doune heard the carriage return, and
listened sullenly for a summons to go below ;
but none came, and Madcap and he had
their short evening alone, as usual, until
suddenly ' dad ' popped into her head, and
down she jumped from her high chair to goto
him.

Doune wrapped her up with his usual
jealous care, and saw her depart in the
nurse's arms ; then sat down with darkening
brows, and the old bitter feelings rising in

this heart. As he had felt when his mother
died, and before the softening influence of
his little sister had come upon him, so he
felt to-night as he sat alone, and thought of
how short his holidays were, and how completely
Mr. Eyre would win her away from
him in the end.

By a hundred trifles, and without questioning
her, the boy had, during the past
few days, discovered how close was the
bond of sympathy between the pair ; how
n everything Mr. Eyre had anticipated
him, even to teaching her the alphabet ;
how in every smallest detail of her nur very
and dress Mr. Eyre's hand appeared, and
was recognised by the little one.

Dad carries me better than you do ;' or,
Dad tells much fitted stories than you
does.' Such expressions would now and
then fall from her lips, and it required the

exercise of all the boy's powers to keep her
beside him, and for an hour together forget
the existence of the lonely man who pored
over his books in the opposite wing.

Too young to understand the situation,
she accepted it with the unhesitating trust
of childhood, and trotted from one to the
other with a heart brimming over with love
for each. But the servants and outsiders
thought the state of things between father
and son unnatural, and said there was bad
blood between the two, because the boy
knew Mr. Eyre had been suspected of the
murder of his wife, but was not permitted
to knows that Digges had tacitly proved
himself guilty of the crime.

But here they erred. Doune had heard
nothing and knew nothing ; yet those who
loved him might well tremble for its effect
upon him when such knowledge came.

He was thinking of his mother to-night,
when a step sounded without, followed by a
chuckle, that announced Madcap. And the
boy started up, thinking it was his father ;
but a tall lad brought in the child, who ran
to Doune, crying out :

Doune, Doune! here's that nice 'little boy
me saw at the funeral !'

The two lads, near of a height, though
there was a year between them, offered in
appearance a most striking contrast, as for a
moment, boy-fashion, they looked askance
at each other; then the one held out his
hand, and the other took it with an honest
enough grip, and without speech or any
other preliminaries, there was at once a
good understanding between them.

What's 00 name ?' said Madcap, with
hands behind her back, and a much-tumbled
pinafore fully disclosed.

Gordon Lovel. '

Doune looked at him earnestly. So this
was the new Lord Lovel ; and how fondly
he remembered the old one, the ' Frank,'
who had been his and Dody's playmate,
none but he himself knew.

Come and have a ride on my rocking-horse,'
said little Madcap, pulling at Gordon's
hand ; and so the two boys were given
time in which to take each other's bearings,
as the best sort of boys always will, before
rushing into a friendship that is no true
one, if it do not last a lifetime. Doune had
endured his schoolfellows, but never had a
real boy-friend ; neither had Gordon ever
found one completely to his liking, so that
before the evening was over, and in spite of
Madcap's frivolous interruptions, the two
boys had got so good a glimpse into each
other's minds as made them part reluctantly,

VOL. I. 12

and with eager thoughts of the morrow.
The three children breakfasted together,
and it was afterwards that Mr. Eyre's unintentional
revenge upon little Madcap
began.

The boys, entirely taken up with one
another, found the three-year-old child in
their way ; and, though both adored her,
presently found an excuse to take her back
to the house, then rushed away from her
laments, and spent their morning gloriously.

For there are so many perils and dangers
into which mettlesome boys of eight and
nine can get, even in a morning's excursion
round a small estate, and so many pursuits
through which a baby might not be carried,
and how could they have climbed, leaped,
and raced with the little one toiling behind
them ?

ind they were happy, as boys can be

happy — as man, woman, or girl never was
nor ever will be ; and of all heartsome,
healthy sights, commend me to a lad who,
in the full flush of his youth and vigour,
follows those innocent pursuits that are
storing up strength within him against his
manhood.

Mr. Eyre had seen the premature return,
heard the childish sounds of lament, saw the
little figure that ran, with socks down at
heel, after the retreating boys, returning
shortly with every sign of grief and disorder,
and sobbing her heart out as she
climbed the steps that led from the garden
to her nursery. Surely she would come to
him, Mr. Eyre thought ; but she did not,
and presently he swallowed his pride and
went to her, though not even lie could heal
the wound her brother's desertion had
inflicted upon her faithful heart. She 



mitted herself to be consoled at last, and
even ran with smiles to meet the faithless
ones when they appeared ruddy and hungry
in the distance, close on the dinner-hour.

Doune snatched her up, and kissed her
fondly ; then, seeing his father beyond,
felt the colour of his spirits change ; but
Mr. Eyre demolished a difficulty, and
established a right order of things, by including
both boys in his inquiries as to how
they had amused themselves that morning.

Doune flushed, and was tongue-tied for
awhile ; it gave him a new sensation to
address the father who had not spoken to
him for three years. But he forced out a
few words, so that Gordon saw nothing
amiss, and, liking both, was struck once
more by the extraordinary resemblance
between father and son.

But if Mr. Eyre did not hold himself

aloof from the children, he never intruded
on them.

They could come to him when they
pleased, but he never went to them ; their
meals, their hours, were different, and,
having resumed his duties as magistrate,
there were days when little Madcap, seeking
him for consolation, found none, so that
thus early there were thorns in her babyish
lot, and she learned to suffer before she
understood the meaning of the word.

For that first day in which she found
herself neglected had, with variations more
or less cheerful, repeated itself during the
ensuing forty, so that sometimes Madcap
would be carried first by one boy, then the
other, through all sorts of adventures, and
anon found herself neglected for some rat-catching
or bird-snaring exploit, from which
her small presence was rigorously tabooed.

But, no matter what might have been
their shortcomings to her during the day, of
evenings they were her devoted slaves, and
would play at every game possible to the
whim or intelligence of a three-year-old
child.

Hide-and-seek was perhaps the favourite
one, and bursts of merriment would often
be wafted to Mr. Eyre on the other side of
the house, who about this time marked an
almanac with the date at which a reply
might be expected to the message he had
sent Hester Clarke.

For if she would not obey his summons,
he had made his mind up that he would goto
her immediately.

And little Madcap ? Well, she had disappointed
him, as her mother had never
done, and he loved her, to be sure,
but

And yet it wanted only the touch of two
velvet lips, the love and trust of two gentle
arms round his neck, to make the strongman
weak as water, and vow to forego
vengeance, if only he might hold the first
place in the heart of his lost Madcap's
daughter. As the holidays drew to a close,
the boys were more than ever inseparable,
and one day Mr. Eyre asked Doune if he
would like to join young Lovel at Eton
after Easter, to which Doune replied in
eager affirmative, colouring for joy, but too
tongue-tied to utter the gratitude he really
felt.

But a better feeling had slowly grown up
during the past weeks between the two,
that Gordon's sunny temper and ways had
done much to promote ; for his was exactly
the right influence for Doune, and came,
too, in the very nick of time, and when it

was most urgently needed. Nothing morbid
could live in the healthy atmosphere Gordon
made around him ; while for Doune's strength
of character and brilliancy of intellect the
elder boy had the deepest admiration, so
that the bond between them was one of
unbroken harmony from the first.

Often they would talk of what they would
do when grown up, and, the estates being
so close together, not a day passed but the
boys went through the Lovel woods, sometimes
even entering the house itself, and
roaming through its neglected, desolate
rooms, invariably ending in a visit to Job,
who sat by the fireside, but would never be
able to do any active work again.

He had come out of his fit perfectly
clear in mind, save for the one fixed hallucination
that it was not his young master
who had been buried under the name of

Lord Lovel, but some other man who resembled
him, and whom Mr. Eyre had
thought fit to bury thus for some reason
of his own.

He never acknowledged Gordon as the
heir, but invariably addressed him as Master
Lovel, and bade him not grow up idle, or
looking to the inheritance, as any day
little Master Frank ' might walk in and
claim his own.

The boys humoured him in his fancies,
and he liked them both ; but best of all he
loved little Madcap, who sometimes came
with them, and concerning whom the old
man had a supernatural belief that she washer
mother born over assail — that mother
who had once been his master's girl-sweetheart,
and who had been stolen from him by
Mr. Eyre.

So between the old and broken man and

the young fresh child a strong and faithful
love grew with the years, and by the time
she was ten there was not a story of Frank's
beauty, bravery, and truth that she had not
got by heart ; and he had become that
perilous, often most disappointing creature
upon earth — a child's hero ; and for every
flower that she laid on her mother's grave,
she laid one beside it for Frank.

* * :^ *

The last few days of the holidays passed
in perfect bliss to Madcap, as the two
boys (blaming themselves for their neglect)
took her with them everywhere — carried
her over wet places, but in dry ones allowed
her to trot like a little dog at their heels,
and if she got a tumble or two they were
none the wiser, for she did not mind what
bumps and bruises she got so long as she
might follow them

Neither of them could make enough of
her during this time, and each night the
boys went sorer-hearted to bed, and dreaded
the parting with her more. On the night
before they were to start, travelling together
as far as town, Doune went to his little
sister's cot before she fell asleep, and sat
down beside her.

Madcap, my little ducks darling,' he
said, ' I've not been very kind to you
these holidays ; but I'll be better next time,

and it won't be long ' he stopped a

moment, with that smarting pain in the eyeballs
which is a brave boy's way of crying,
then went on — ' and you'll be a good little
girl, and get nurse to write me a letter
once every week, telling me how you are,
and I'll write to you often — and you must
love me always '

Oh yes I' said Madcap, * you and Dad

and Geordie she added, as an afterthought.


Don't you love me better than Dad V
said the boy, his courage giving way, and
the question forcing itself out.

You and Dad !' said the child, dancing
up and down in her cot. ' Dad and Doony
love 'oo both !' and she kissed him fondly.

He thought to himself bitterly of how
often he had neglected her, thus driving her
to Mr. Eyre to be consoled ; and indeed this
fresh boy-love had for the time swept him
off his feet, so that one day he actually
forgot his usual visit to his mother's
picture.

And when the fatal moment of parting
came — when Madcap, drowned in woe, was
splashing Doune and Geordie impartially
with her tears, and throttling them with
her kisses, even then the boy could not forgive

his father that equal share with himself
in his little sister's heart.

Good-bye, sir,' said Geordie, taking Mr.
Eyre's hand warmly ; ' and thank you for the
brightest, happiest holidays I have ever had
in my life.'

Come back at Easter,' said Mr. Eyre,
who really liked the lad in his way.

Good-bye, sir,' said Doune, his cold
hand barely touching his father's ; and if he
had not been so tall of limb, and resolute of
glance, his independence might have provoked
a smile ; as it was, Mr. Eyre met him
in his own spirit, and in a final storm of
sobs from Madcap, the schoolboys departed.

" Does the sun shine with you ; and does heaven
drop rain upon you ?" said a King of Africa, who had
just made a noble award to his own loss.

Alexander answered, " Yes."

" Then must it be," said the King, " on account

of the innocent animals that dwell in your land ; for

over such men ought no sun to shine, no heaven to

rain." '

Geste FiOmanorum.

HEN Mr. Eyre next went to
Synge Lane he found Hester
Clarke's reply to his message in
the form of a sealed letter to himself.

It had neither beginnings nor ending; and
contained very few words ; but these were
significant.

Janet Stork was dead, and she herself
returning to England immediately. She
had heard Mr. Eyre was resolved to seek
her out, and most solemnly warned him to
desist from any such attempt, since she
could not tell him more than he already
knew of, and, for the sake of both the dead
and the living, no power on earth should
force her to open her lips to him on the
subject.

Justice may yet,' said Mr. Eyre aloud,
as he folded the letter. ' Tell her this
from me when you write, that she shall
speak, and I'll have the whole truth from
her lips yet before I die.'

And he went out, with a curious feeling
that the battle was beginning over again,
and that the peace of the last few weeks
had been but a rest before the coming
struggle.

So the clue that had dropped from
Frank's dead hand was held safe in Hester's
living one, and he would find, and wrest it
from her, though it took him a dozen years
of search.

She could tell him nothing that he did
not know already. Ay, that was true
enough, for he knew her guilty of the
murder, and to-day was more rooted in his
belief of it than ever.

His spirits rose as he walked home, and,
pausing at the churchyard, he thought that
in time he might even come to forgive
Frank, whose mind had no doubt been
poisoned against him by the woman's lies.

Within an hour Mr. Eyre had telegraphed
to the governor of the convict
settlement in which Janet had died, for any
information obtainable about the woman
who had visited her and been her friend.

Before night the answer came back that
nothing was known of Hester Clarke's
plans beyond the fact that her destination
was England, for which place she had set
out some weeks before in a sailing-ship, of
which the name was given.

Here was material upon which to work,
but inquiry only elicited the fact that
Hester Clarke had left the ship at a port
half-way home, though the captain did not
think that her circumstances warranted the
loss of half her passage-money.

He had therefore returned it to her, and
was much amazed when, by return of post,
he received a cheque from Mr. Eyre, and a
request for an immediate interview.

This duly took place at Poplar, the
honest, bluff fellow refusing the money, but
willing to give Mr. Eyre all the information
lie had.

VOL. I. 13

He said that he had been told she was
going home because the friend for whom she
had come out to the settlement was dead,
and she had been heard to say she wished
she had died with her, as she had no friends
to return to in her own country.

And her appearance '?' said Mr. Eyre.

The handsomest creature I ever saw in
my life,' said the sailor, with a weatherbeaten
blush that did not escape the other ;
but with that look on her face '

'A look of guilt f said Mr. Eyre
swiftly.

Lord bless you, no !' said the honest
sailor indignantly ; — ' she wouldn't hurt a
fly ; but she looked like one who's seen
sorrow, and maybe worse things in her
time. I asked her to marry me, sir — and
now the murder's out — but she wouldn't,
and there's an end on't,' he added, wondering

what this stern, dark man might have
had to do with her past life, or what with
her future?

You may thank God that she would not,'
said Mr. Eyre drily. ' You will be going
back before long ?'

'This day month.'

'Keep a berth for me,' said Mr. Eyre,
'for I'll go with you.'

The accommodation's rough, sir,' said
the man, feeling a curious unwillingness to
set Mr. Eyre on Hester's track.

What will do for a woman will do forme,'
said Mr. Eyre carelessly.

And, having paid for his passage, he
entered the day and hour of the ship's
sailing in his pocket-book, and, shaking the
captain's hand, left him.

I wish I may be doing her no ill turn,'
thought the captain (honest and thorough

13—2

as surely sailors are above all other men) ;
^ but I doubt if he finds her there — she's
not the sort of woman to be caught, if she's
minded to give any one the slip.'

But, as it turned out, Mr. Eyre was not
one of the half-dozen passengers who sailed
in the good ship Arizona.

The very hour of his departure he deferred
to the last moment, that he mischt
wish little Madcap good-bye in her sleep,
and so spare herself, and him, a scene of
pain ; but at the very moment when,
cloaked and gloved, he entered the nursery,
he was startled to hear her sinning; at the
top of her voice, the tune abruptly changing
to a horrible barking sound that tore his
heart-strings as he stood ; then saw the
child struggling to rise, and terrified, gasping,
fighting for breath, seemingly in the'act
of dying before his eyes.

He tore at the bell, cursing the nurse for
her neglect ; but, swifter than any bell
could travel, the woman, when those shrill
clear notes of singing burst upon her ear,
had fled downwards to order blankets and
boiling water, and was back in the room
before the look of agony had died from Mr.
Eyre's face, as he sat with the convulsed
child in his arms.

Croup, sir,' she said, and whipped a
bottle ofi" the mantelshelf, and poured out a
teaspoonful ; ' the hot water will be here
directly,' and she poured the stuff' down the
child's throat.

But though the hot water came as by
magic, and Madcap's stiffened limbs were
plunged in it, dose after dose of the ugly
brown stuff" had to be administered before the
gasping struggles for breath grew quieter,
and the contorted limbs became still.

Dad, ivhat is it f she paid, looking up
at him once, as, helpless, he hung above her,
his agony greater than hers.

And all his life long he never forgot that
piteous voice, the sight of her little terrified
face in the midst of the steam and blankets,
damp curls clinging to her brow. Surely
that other Madcap must see it, and blame
him for his neglect of the child during the
past weeks. He remembered now that she
had never been strong, though she seemed
so — the little prematurely-born babe, that
no one expected to live ; and she had been
running wild with the boys, and fretting
over their departure ; and if Mr. Eyre himself
had left half an hour earlier, she would
have been crying out in her misery for
Dad,' and there would have been none to
answer.

He said to himself then that if she recovered

lie would never again leave her —
revenge might go, but he would care for
her as she would have done, whose very
heart and body seemed to tremble with his
as he gazed ; and when at last the crisis of
the attack was jDast, and the child lying
exhausted, but out of pain, in his arms, the
man's stubborn soul died in him, and he
recognised the God that had granted the
life that He might have forfeited. For this
disease by which the child is rudely shaken
out of its slumber, and brought face to
face with appalling suffering, and often
death, is one before which the strongest
man, the most skilful surgeon, must shrink ;
and the sight of the broken nerve, the
child's terror of the recurrence of the
agony, are, even in the days of recovery?
sadder still.

The weak voice, the pallid check, the

overheated atmosphere of the room, remind
the watcher of how precarious is the life
that has once been so threatened.

And when Mr. Eyre heard later the fiat
of a famous surgeon, that nothing but the
most devoted care and watching would
shield her from constantly recurring attacks
of a similar nature, he buried Hester Clarke
and vengeance fathoms deep in his memory,
and forbade them to rise again until summoned.


Only to-night, as he sat with the child in
his arms, it struck him that somewhere he
had seen something similar, and in this
very room . . . and the child had been his
own ; but it was dead, and he had come
hither as magistrate, with the ministers of
justice at his heels, to arrest the woman
upon whose knees it lay for the murder of
his wife.

Had the inevitable law of nature reproduced
itself ? was God to bring the sinner's
heart to humanity through its nearest and
best?

All that night Mr. Eyre watched beside
the little steam-enshrouded figure. At daybreak
the Arizona sailed ; and as she parted
her cables, her captain rejoiced that she
carried one passenger the less than had been
booked.

Mr. Eyre himself put ship and man out
of his mind, and on the day when he might
have reached Hester's landing-place was
wholly engaged in enjoying the frolics of a
child who, in the sparkle of a young
March day, had recovered some of the
brightness that she lost in an illness that,
though five weeks old, she had not hitherto
been able to forget.

In one bitter short experience madcap

had learned the meaning of the word death,
and shrank away from it — shrank even from
visiting her mother's grave, and knew safety
nowhere out of her father's sight.

She had been taken back to her old room
opposite his, and not even Doune could have
found the heart to oust her from it when, at
Easter, he came back to find her languid,
half her beauty of rounded outlines gone, and
threatened daily and hourly with the deadly
complaint that had already seized her twice
since the attack that had appalled Mr. Eyre.

Perhaps the hearts of father and son
merged their bitterness then at her side, and
in their common love joined forces to protect
her ; perhaps jealousy showed as a mean
and common thing as they watched over the
little frail life that was the all of each ; and
the first fibre of respect in Doune stirred to
his father when, after a long watch, Mr.

Eyre laid his hand on the boy's shoulder,
and bade him go to rest. But first Doune
went to his mother, and, light in hand, looked
in her eyes for reasons why she should so
have loved her husband.

Perhaps the boy found them there, so that
he could subordinate himself to her child's
happiness, and when, a few days later,
Geordie came, Madcap's satisfaction was
complete.

No need to tell the boys now to take care
of her. Carried over every puddle, and up
every hillside, little Madcap daily gained
fresh strength and tone, so that the village
folks smiled to see ' the master ' and the
boys go by with her. The black drop of
blood between father and son was ozone,
they said, praying Heaven that when he
grew older he might not take the tragedy of
his mother's end amiss, and read Mr. Eyre

wrongly, as in their secret souls they themselves
had done. Some of the women said
that in making an idol of the child, he had
made a phantom of the mother, and that he
was more ' foolish ' over the second Madcap
than he had been over the first ; and this
was true in a sense, for while he had felt himself
master of his wife's fate, here he knew
himself helpless, and his love was all the
purer that it was so much the less masterful.
If outwardly he wore as proud a front,
and carried things with as high a hand as
ever, inwardly he knew himself a changed
man, who looked out on life with new eyes,
and in whom the very lust for vengeance
was for a time extinguished, so that he
hardly thought of the Arizona, or of how
each day his chances of tracing Hester
lessened.

About this time Mr. Eyre received a

letter that puzzled him, since he could see
no good reason why it should be addressed
to Mm more than to any other person.

It was his way to read his letters through
without first looking at their signature, so
that only at the end of this one did he find
enlightenment, and then only of a partial
kind.

The writer said her son had joined the
th Foot (against her most urgent entreaties)
in the thick of the Crimean War,
that his name had never appeared among
the list of killed or wounded, nor had his
effects been forwarded to her ; though on
inquiry at the War Office, she elicited the
fact that he had returned to England
invalided at the close of the wear. But home
he had never come, and she feared some
brain-injury had kept him apart from her,
or that he had fallen into bad hands, for he

was said to have had a large sum of ready
money in his possession when he sailed. The
mother went on to say that having seen in a
newspaper an allusion to Mr. Eyre's return
with the body of the late Lord Lovel, who
had joined the regiment about the same
time as her son (she was able to fix the
date by a letter from her boy), she ventured
to write and ask if Mr. Eyre had seen or
knew anything of him, the Colonel and
more than half the officers being dead, and
the remainder now in India.

She added that he was twenty six years
of age, tall, fair, and blue-eyed — her only son,
and she a widow. His Christian name was
Francis. Mr. Eyre's memory was accurate,
and he remembered Colonel Lindsay's
mentioning young Methuen, and also some
odd words that had escaped ]him in dying ;
but these he did not think worth repeating

to the poor lady when he wrote to tell
her that he had no knowledge of her son.

He received a more memorable letter
some weeks later, perhaps the longest one
that bluff sailor Captain Pye ever wrote.

He said he had stopped two days on his
outward passage at the port Mr. Eyre
would have visited, and had spent his
whole time in making inquiries about
Hester Clarke. Several people remembered
her landing, as she was unveiled, and her
beauty uncommon, and she was seen to
enter a food-shop close to the harbour ; but
from the moment she left it, not the
slightest trace of her could be found.
Many ships, both homeward and outward
bound, touched at the port that day, and
the captain could only suppose that she had
gone away in one of them. She had
effected some change in her dress at the

shop (said the woman who kept it), and
veiled herself so closely that her features
could not be seen.

And the sailor concluded with the hope
(meaning no offence) ' that since it was
clear the poor soul did not wish to be
traced, and had tried to burn her boats
behind her, why, to his mind 'twould be
only honourable in any man not to set sail
in pursuit of her ; and he begged to
remain Mr. Eyre's faithful servant, Joseph
Pye.'

Mr. Eyre wrote a brief reply, in which
he thanked him, and said that he still
meant to take a sail in the Arizona one of
these days, and should make it his business
to know when Captain Pye's ship was in port.
But somehow the ' convenient season ' for
that sail did not come. As years went by,
and gradually little Madcap outgrew the fell

complaint which had threatened her life so
often, she still required all his care ; and
home-ties, and those connected with his
estate, bound him more and more closely
to the life that had so fully satisfied him
in the days before Hester Clarke came to
trouble it.

If now and then a restless thought rose
in his mind — if at odd moments the old
puzzle rose and confronted him, demanding
its solution, he put it by. Perhaps some
inward sense told him that this time of
peace was but the pause before the final
struggle of his storm-tossed life. But the
pause was a long one ; and the years went
by as days to the man who at no period of
his life had found a day too long for its
work.

And so in the eternal freshness of the
children's kingdom ' Mr. Eyre lived and

VOL. I. 14

renewed his youth. So, by slow but sure
degrees during these happy, healthy years,
the old antagonism between father and son
died out ; for beside and between them
stood Madcap with her love, and a hand in
the hand of each.

14—2

Our present sunsets are as rich in gold
As when the Iliad's music was out-rolled.'

BOY was singing ' As pants the
hart for cooling streams,' and
the exquisite voice soared, as it
were, to the very gates of heaven, then
sank down and down like silver into the
depths of a clear well — sank into the very-souls
of some of those who heard him, and,
by some curious association of ideas, caused
Mr. Eyre to start violently, and lean forward
to gaze at the singer.

Why, this was the very boy whose voice
had so enchanted Mrs. Eyre one hot May

morning that she had compared it to cool
rills of running water that refreshed body
and soul as they fell ; and Mr. Eyre, who,
for a wonder, had accompanied her to
church, had laughed, saying she only found
the voice uncommon, because in looks the
boy happened to be a cherub.

And there stood the boy, cherubic, sweet -
voiced, singing the very same words, and
looking as if he had never done anything
but sing ever since ; and yet it was impossible
that he should be the same. This
must be a younger brother. . . With a
sudden gesture Mr. Eyre brushed his hands
across his eyes, then looked around him,
much as Eip van Winkle may have done
when he wakened from his long dream.

The boys and girls had grown into youths
and maidens, the middle-aged folk had
become old, and many of the old men and

women were missing from their places ; the
very clergyman had grown white-headed,
and the clerk and sexton become bowed
with rheumatism and age.

His glance came back to rest on the
occupants of his own pew, and again he
started, for it seemed to him that his wife
stood before him ; this was not the child
who had drawn him hither each Sunday
morning, but his lost Madcap, just as she
had looked in the early days of her marriage
; no whit older, or sadder, or less lovely
than the girl at whom Mr. Eyre now so
intently gazed.

The tall handsome lad beside her was
Doune, the living image of what his father
had been at twenty, and just now so deep
in thought that his prayer-book had, unnoticed,
slipped from his hand ; but it was
on the fourth occupant of the pew that Mr.

Eyre's gaze dwelt longest, a frown slowly-gathering
upon his brow.

The young man who had caused it to
gather would scarcely have heeded one of
Jove's thunderbolts just then, for his ardent,
eager eyes were fixed upon Madcap, who
seemed unconscious of his presence, and
intent only on her devotions.

There was too much of the lover in the
look, thought Mr. Eyre, experiencing that
odd sense of repulsion which most fathers
feel when the lover comes to woo the
young and delicate daughter . . . perhaps
some jealousy is at its root ; perhaps the
father's instinct has its origin in something
nobler, and he trembles for the future of
the tenderly-nurtured creature whose truest
safety is by his side. . .

I'll have no boy-and-girl love-making
here,' thought Mr. Eyre, looking keenly at

Madcap, who caught the glance and half
smiled. ' Fm first with her yet,' was the
continuation of his thought, as, folding his
arms and with gaze that went past her
through the open door, he set himself to
think of how it was that these twelve years
had passed so swiftly that he had taken no
count of them till to-day.

Madcap's rearing, and the gradually
acquired mastery of Doune, had occupied
him a long while; and then, to be sure,
there were the perilous years of the two
young men to be watched over at school
and college, and his own duties as landowner
and magistrate to be performed, so
that the ' trivial round, the common task '
had filled his days ; and he had not room
even for the episodes of ambition and love
that had on two several occasions threatened
him. The first came when a neighbour

died, and Mr. Eyre was entreated, in the
Conservative interest, to stand for the adjoining
county ; but to such entreaties he
turned a deaf ear, not because he felt any
outward stain, or inward unfitness for the
position, but because his home-ties so closely
bound him that ambition offered no charms
to him now.

The second episode came in the determined
siege of him by the Duke of Marmiton's
widow, a beautiful woman, with
whom Mr. Eyre had flirted before his
marriage, and, as some said, since ; but he
was never in any danger from her, though
her courtship lasted many years ; and,
since he would not run away, it was
openly wondered that he did not marry
her, if only to free himself from her persecutions.


For the rest, he had without an effort

won back that position which he had once
so entirely lost, and, in the eyes of his
world, stood forth a man who had entirely
lived down the one terrible, far-reaching sin
of his youth, that in its consequences had
so nearly wrecked his life.

He neither sought society nor eschewed
it ; but if found at home when his neighbours
called, met them with his old fascination
of manner and habit of intellectual
supremacy over other folk's minds.

One must live under the world's eye to
be accounted cleanly ; and it is part of the
uncharitableness of human nature that one
is suspected of wrong-doing if one refuses
to be subjected to the microscope. To beloved
by one's neighbours one must lay
both heart and life bare for their dissection,
and our very vices will be viewed with
affectionate toleration if only we will permit

our friends to take a bird's-eye view of their
progress and range.

But Mr. Eyre appeared to meditate no
new surprises in the way of wrong-doing,
and men and women alike found him greatly
changed, and for the better ; his face, too,
wore a look of peace that made him appear
years younger than when his wife died.

But to-day, the old grim lines in his face
showed and deepened ; in his stubborn
heart the old fierce question rose like a
spectre, and demanded its reply. The
time of peace was over, the moment for
uprising at hand ; and the ice that during
the past years had frozen hard over one
hidden volcano in his heart shivered at
a breath, when in that hour of awakening
he realized how, amidst all his duties,
she had been forgotten. Out yonder by
Frank's side she lay ; he could see the

tombs from where he sat, as he had seen
them Sunday after Sunday — ay, as he had
been content to see them, he thought, as
with a passionate gesture he rose and left
the church.

Madcap had seen the light flash to his
eye, the colour to his cheek — marked the
throe that seized him ; and her eyes followed
him anxiously to where he stood, looking
down on her mother's grave, immovable asa
man carved out of stone.

Presently he stooped and plucked a daisy,
placing it beside another that his pocketbook
held ; but with the second he laid
away a vow.

Ay ; but once before, and by her scarce
cold clay, he had sworn an oath to her and
forgotten it ; he had been content to eat,
drink, and sleep while yet her blood cried
out unavenged from the earth ; he had been

happy in his home-life, while she, who had
no share in it, lay yonder neglected and
alone, while, secure from pursuit, her
murderer walked the earth.

He had been supine, had loved his ease
(for as such showed to him now the finest,
best endeavour he had made in his life) ;
but now he was awake y and to the bitter
end would pursue that scheme so abruptly
broken off by his little daughter's first
illness.

She was strong enough now, and, besides
(here a wry smile twisted Mr. Eyre's lips),
there were others to love her if anything
happened to himself, for fathers have no
such hold on their daughters' hearts after
marriage, as their mothers are declared in
the old distich to possess. Then there was
Doune : the boy's splendid training at his
father's hands had left few doubts as to his

moral future ; it was only from an intellectual
standpoint that his father had fears
for him, and dreaded that abuse of application
to his studies which usually resulted
in sleepless hours, and latterly in one or
two curiously prolonged attacks of sleepwalking.


But this tendency he would outgrow,
and as to those issues involved in Doune's
future knowledge of the manner of his
mother's death, Mr. Eyre never troubled
himself with conjectures concerning them ;
the boy knew him — ay, and loved him, as
the father was very well aware.

He did not look back to the day when
his life of peace was rudely assailed by
influences from without, and over which he
had no control ; if he had clung to his
peace then, he did not cling to it now, and
from within the fatal impulse came that set

him once more marching forward to meet
his fate.

Before he left his wife's grave, and long
before that homily misnamed a sermon
was half over, he had chalked out his
plans, arranged his campaign ; and, on
reaching home, consulted a Slii'p'pincj
Gazette, in which, as by a miracle, he
found the very information he most
desired.

His daughter's eyes still followed him ashe
left the grave ; but Doune had scarcely
seemed to notice his father's exit, while
Gordon thought that the flush on her
cheeks, the unwonted restlessness of her
movements, where due rather to her thoughts
than to Mr. Eyre's abrupt departure.

It was the young fellow's last day here ;
tomorrow he would return with Doune to
keep his last term at Oxford, and then

would come home to settle down at the
Towers for good.

Don't 'ee clean up or alter over-much,
Master Geordie,' had said Job to him —
'you'll have to give an account of it all
to the master one of these days ; and
the less spent, the less there'll be to pay
back.'

For the old man still lingered on, refusing
to die till his young master's return, whenas
he said, he would be only too glad to lay
down his life and depart in peace.

Gordon never contradicted him, even
when Job persisted that he couldn't somehow
see Madcap the younger there as the
young man's wife.

But Gordon saw her there clearly enough,
and meant to turn the old place upside
down before he took her home to it, which
would be somewhere about next year, he

VOL. I. 15

supposed, for then she would be full sixteen
winters old.

Her mother had been engaged to his
cousin Frank when as young ; for, of
course, Gordon knew the whole story, and
thought the accident extraordinary that had
kept Doune ignorant of the truth. For
himself, his knowledge affected no whit his
love and respect for his guardian ; to Mm
Mr. Eyre would be always the first, best,
noblest man living, only he wished that his
little sweetheart had not loved her father so
well, since in that father alone he found a
rival in her heart.

There were no others to fear, the county
just then being signally deficient in either
young or middle-aged men equal to the
calibre of those to whom she had been
bred ; and if a young fool named Busby
came riding often to the Ked Hall, why, no

doubt he would be finally despatched with
some such flea in his ear as Mr. Eyre had
always been able to muster on the departure
of the fool's father, who, having
kept a stone in his pocket seven years, had
long ago turned it, convinced that the time
for its use would come yet.

No lovers showed on the horizon ; but,
with one of those presages of love or fear
that often we call supernatural, the young
fellow longed for some sign or promise of
love from her before he left on the
morrow.

He would be gone such a little while,
and surely there could be no hurry ; yet, as
Madcap's eyes travelled past him down
that gradually diminishing perspective of
aisle and churchyard that ended in her
mother's grave, he said to himself that he
would within the hour put his fate to the

15—2

touch, without the leave of Mr. Eyre or any
other.

As the preacher's dull, booming voice
sounded faintly from afar, Gordon (unconsciously
following Mr. Eyre's steps) went
through a kind of retrospect of the past
twelve years, in which the foremost figure
was always — if with a hundred variations —
Madcap.

If at three years he had slighted while he
adored her, at six she had assumed airs of
sovereignty to which he had submitted,
while each succeeding year gave her fresh
superiority over the lads who grew so fast,
and must pass through all those awkward
stages of youth through which the girl
herself danced and played without the loss
of a single grace or charm.

She was at heart a romp, as her mother
had been before her, yet could walk sedately.

and say her prayers instead of repeating
them ; had been known to go rat-catching
(though she never went twice), bird's-nesting,
and often jumped a five-barred
gate when no one was looking ; took first-class
honours in the fine art of snowballing,
yet might be discovered in wet weather
walking on patterns with soup in her hands
for some sick villager ; and withal was her
father's close companion, and 'thorough,' as
only a girl who has associated with the
best sort of English man and boy ever
is.

Tricksy as a brook that laughs over
pebbles, but anon sinks into silence between
high banks, with a depth of character that
ran hand in hand with those wild madcap
spirits from which her mother had taken
her name ; as clear-brained as she was
simple, as innocent as she was strong.

Gordon's mind had never held but one idea
of womanhood from his birth ; and Madcap
filled it.

His love exactly matched that pure,
boyish, ardent one that his dead cousin.
Lord Lovel, had felt for Madcap's mother
when, as mere boy and girl, the two had
become engaged, and, but for Mr. Eyre
stepping in between them, might have been
alive and happy in each other yet.

Sixteen and eighteen, these had been the
ages of the young pair ; and now Gordon
was nearly of age, and the younger Madcap
fifteen and a half; and why might he not
speak, and secure his happiness before some
other man appeared to dull or destroy his
hopes ?

In her education had been included no
forward thoughts of men, and no self-consciousness
marred that virginal look which

we sometimes see in very young girls, who
from their birth have been kept far out of
the reach even of a chance smirch of evil,
and whose souls have been left as God
made them, not moulded to the lives of
those to whom their training has been entrusted.


Such a look of purity is compatible with
every charm, roguish or saintly, that a
woman ought to possess ; and to his heart's
core Gordon reverenced its preciousness, as,
all ablaze with the first passionate love of
early manhood, he longed for the sermon
to be over, so that he might speak.

She was dressed in white, as it was Mr.
Eyre's whim that she always should be, and
wore a large hat softened and veiled with
snowy feathers, caught back in such a way
that the whole tender, velvety brow and
curling chestnut hair showed out as from an

exquisite frame. A muslin kerchief that
left the rounded, slender throat bare was
knotted at her breast ; and, for the rest,
her gown was simply made, and reached to
her ankles, while long white silk mittens
that reached to her elbows were tied with
narrow ribbons ; and black shoes, with silk
stockings inside, shod the most beautiful
little foot in the county.

But when the benediction was spoken,
and the young pair paced down the churchyard
walk together, while the villagers
looked after them and smiled irrepressibly, as
people will at the sight of love, youth, and
beauty, all in full bloom together, Gordon's
heart sank, so that in silence they went
through the little gate, and took the path
that led homeward through Lord Lovel's
woods.

Softly as those who are shod in velvet

the two went ; and this silence was so
unlike his roguish, saucy Madcap that,
trembling, he thought she must know what
was on his lips, and that — oh, blessed and
unsuspected sign of love ! — she was shy as
himself.

The young May breezes stole ruffling
round their lips and cheeks, for here might
always be found freshness and shade ; but
even the beauty of her beloved woods could
not rejoice the girl's heart that day ; and
when presently Gordon stooped down to
look into her averted face, he saw that tears
were running down her cheeks.

Madcap /' he cried, moved to the soul
by these signs of grief that must surely befor
himself, ' don't cry ; I shall soon be
back. This is May the 10th, and I shall be
back the first week in July — come home/o?^
good!

It's not you said Madcap ungratefully,
as she dried her eyes ; ' it's — it's
Doune /'

The young lover recoiled, and the words
of love died on his lips.

Can't you see that he is killing himself
with over-work V said the girl, unheeding
Gordon's looks ; ' he has been up night
after night at his books, yet he rises at the
same hour as we do, and he gives himself
no rest. And now he is going back unrefreshed
to harder work still, and he will
take to walking in his sleep, and perhaps
fall off a chimney and be killed — my dear,
darling Doune I'

He has never gone farther than the door
of his chambers,' said Gordon, in unsympathetic
tones ; ' the bolts always wake him
up. Besides, Fm there to see that he comes
to no harm.'

And yet you are going to leave bim,'
said Madcap, looking at him with eyes in
which reproach drowned itself in tears ;
and who is going to pick him up, pray,
if he falls out of a window ? or — or telegraph
to get me up in time ?'

You know, Madcap,' said the young
fellow coldly, ' that your father arranged
for me to leave college one term before
Doune did ; but if you are so anxious to
get rid of me for six months longer, why, I
will make you happy.'

Do! she said, her face clearing up ; ' and
you and he shall come back together, and we
will all be as happy — as happy as can be !'

Shall we ?' said Gordon, rather wistfully.
' I don't know. I'm not given to
presentiments ; but somehow I feel as if
this were the last of our happy days, and
that trouble is closing round us.'

The girl started as though a chill breath
had pierced the warm air around, and she
grew a little pale as she said :

I felt like that just now ; but it is only
that you are both going away tomorrow,
and so we have got out of spirits, and
superstitious. I even thought there was
something amiss with father when he went
out, and stayed so long by mother's grave ;
have you seen any signs of restlessness in
him lately V she added eagerly.

Now this was the last straw on Geordie's
back. To be questioned about an elderly
gentleman's bodily signs when you are
bursting with your first declaration of love
is surely beyond the endurance of any
proper man or boy of spirit living.

He is getting old,' said Gordon brusquely,
and turning his back on her.

Old ?' repeated the girl, in a startled

tone. ' Dear old dad is growing old f How
dare you say such a thing, or turn your
back upon me, sir !' she added, stamping
her foot (and here I regret to confess that
she invariably stamped twice, where once
would have satisfied her mother), while a
flood of angry crimson rushed to her
cheeks.

He is getting old,' said the young fellow,
turning round to face her, with eyes angry
as her own ; ' and of course he has whims,
and can't sleep at nights, and feels the heat
in church. But is all this any reason, pray,
why you should forget / am going away, as
well as Doune, tomorrow ?'

Poor Geordie !' she said ; and he felt
that he hated his name, and wished it had
been any other. ' But you will come back ;
and you are so young ; and you say he is
getting old . . . why, there is no real work

for which he is not fitter and stronger than
you or Donne !'

Thank you said Gordon, feeling the
insult to his youth keenly ; ' perhaps when
Doune and I are elderly men, there may be
one or two things that we can do to your
satisfaction.'

Elderly men are so much more interesting
than young ones,' said the girl, stooping
to pluck a sorrel-leaf, and grimacing as she
ate it ; ' but what is the matter with you
this morning; ? You look as cross as two
sticks, and usually you are so good-tempered
'

Good-tempered !' exclaimed the sorely
tried young man. ' Why, to be a good-tempered
man is to be the butt — the fool of
one's company '

Yes — but you are only a boy,' said Madcap,
slipping her hand through his arm as

she spoke ; ' how dreadful it will be when
we are really grown up 1' and she sighed, as
at the thought of departing joys.

I don't suppose any of us will grow
much more said Gordon gloomily, and
feeling that his wooing was going from bad
to worse, ' though I have heard of girls
growing after they were sixteen.'

But I'm only fifteen and a half, Geordie
said the girl almost piteously, as she looked
up into his clouded face, and speaking
as one who laments to lose something
precious ; ' don't forget that every year I
grow older, father gets older too — as you
were cruel enough to remind me just
now !'

And youth is the time in which to enjoy
yourself, and I am growing older too,' said
Gordon, with a ruthlessness that only the
pain of love could justify. ' Are we to be

children alivays^ because Mr. Eyre is nearly
a century ahead of us V

Madcap drew her hand away, and, with
something of her father's odd sense of awakening,
looked at the young man before her.

You are grown up, I suppose,' she said,
after a minute's dispassionate survey of
him, ' and you have a moustache — I never
noticed it before — and Doune has none ;
but he is a year younger than you, and,
after all, I don't think one would suit
him!'

He answered nothing ; he was dumb
with helpless anger and misery as he walked
beside her.

Her instinct, usually so fine, was at fault
here ; for, preoccupied by thoughts of
brother and father, she never dreamed of
the turmoil going forward in the breast of
her companion, and who in her mind, and

despite that unexpected discovery of his
moustache, was still a boy.

Let us sit down,' she said, as one suddenly
fatigued ; and Gordon felt that the
sequel to his chapter of accidents had come,
when he found himself enthroned on moss,
in all the agony of those go-tormenting
clothes that he abhorred.

His tall hat, at least, he might abolish
without indecorum, and this he sent flying
with a vigour that nearly wrecked it against
a neighbouring tree, and brought Madcap to
a more attentive consideration of him than
she had hitherto vouchsafed.

His good looks, though remarkable in
themselves, were of that Saxon order that
no one dreams of calling uncommon, and he
had always suffered in Madcap's eyes from
being placed in juxtaposition with Doune,
whose keen, dark, brilliant beauty was en-vol.

I. l(j

timely peculiar to the males of Lis family, and
as proverbial in the country as it was shared
by no other save his father and himself.

Are you all bewitched together ?' she
said ; ' first father, then Doune, now you V

Yes, I am bewitched,' he said, not looking
at her, and thinking that no man of
mettle or sense ever sat down to a declaration
of love, least of all with such scant
encouragement as was his.

The love that meets one trembling, the
timid look, the blush, the involuntary
movement ; if she had shown any one of
those pretty flags of encouragement, so
easy to be supplemented by the lover with
more ardent signs still, how easy it would
have been to speak, how difficult to tell
afterwards whether he or she had said or
looked the fatal words that carried them
over the Rubicon!

But to chaff him ; to call him a boy at
nearly one-ands twenty; to congratulate him
on a moustache, as if it were a new toy or a
pop-gun; to suggest sitting down when he
would have found it a better sign in her if
she had run away from him — were not all
these things sufficient to anger even one
of the gentle, sweet-blooded Lovels ? When
he had despatched his gloves after his hat
he felt better, but still looked cross enough
to amaze Madcap, who had not the clue to
his thoughts, and who now capped all her
other misdeeds by bursting into a peal of
laughter.

Why don't you send your coat after the
rest ?' she said ; ' I've seen you often enough
in your shirt-sleeves — though / don't lind
the day hot at all ; I am perfectly cool.'

You need not tell me that,' said the
young man, who had folded his arms on his

breast, and^now looked as miserable as he
had before looked angry ; ' you are always
cool about everything that concerns me but
you put yourself into a fever if your father
or Doune gets a finger-ache.'

*Why, Geordie,' she said, opening her
eyes very wide, ' are youjealousT

My name is Gordon,' said the young
fellow crossly. ' Whoever nick-named me
that detestable Geordie ought to be shot.
I may be only a boy, but I'll be hanged
if I answer to that name again !'

Shall I call you Lord Lovel?' she said,
in a gentle voice that made him turn
swiftly to look at her ; but, alas ! —

In her fair cheeks two pits do lie,'
and these pits were filled up and as brimming
over with laughter as the rest of her
face, and, while ravishing, served only to
enrage him.

I'll tell you Avhat it is, Madcap,' he
said ; ' if you go on laughing at me this
way, I'll box your ears — or — kiss you.'

It would not be for the first time,' said
Madcap placidly, and with a shameless
disregard of her situation ; ' kissing me, I
mean. But as to the other, why, that's one
of my prerogatives ; for you know I've
boxed your ears almost ever since I was
born.'

Yes — that's just it,' said the young
man bitterly. ' I was fool enough to let
you ; whereas, if I had given you a lot of
trouble, and kept you in order, you would
think twice as much of me noah. As it is,
Doune and your father make a double-first'
(he laughed angrily at his own bad joke),
and I'm not in it.'

Yes, you are,' she said, but rather
coldly, for she was offended at the rebellion

of her slave; ' but, of course, they 2X^ first.

And — your stupid joke reminds me 1

wanted to ask you about Doune's first-class
honours.'

Hang first-class honours !' said Gordon,
letting go the last remnant of his
manners.

By all means, Lord Lovel,' said Madcap,
red with anger. ' To be sure, with you
it is a case of sour grapes, for you never
had a chance of winning any; your chief
laurels were earned in cricket and boating
'

'And a very good job, too,' cut in
Gordon ruthlessly. * If I had beeswax
my nose to my books as Doune did, and
not taken him down the river for a breather
now and then, he would be in an asylum
by now.'

Oh, there's no disgrace in rowing in the

Oxford eight!' said Madcap loftily, 'especially
if you can't do anything else ' — here
Gordon bounced on his mossy seat, and felt
that a few more minutes of this would
finish him — ^ but then you kept rats in
your rooms, and '

Uncommonly useful they were,' said
Gordon heartlessly. ' I trained them to
run up Doune's legs, and they sent him off
to bed every night a good three hours
before he would otherwise have gone.'

And you were had up before the
dons '

'Old asses!' interpolated Gordon, his
manners growing worse and worse.

And were nearly rusticated,' said
Madcap, swallowing a smile, and with
her voice as stern as she could make it ;
but that was for some disgraceful piece
of business that you got into all by yourself

for ijoune and father could tell me
nothir !'

The younger fellow blushed angrily, but

sat his ground ; he knew that his youth

had passed honourably beyond that of most
men, and saw no reason why he should
not make a loyal husband to the prirl whoso

serenely flouted him.

• That's my b !' he said shortly:
• but I'm fretting tired of being a mere caretaker
to Jjoune '

•^1 (:arf:foXtr ■' said Madcap. sitting erect,
and With fia' " ■ •■';-: * i- he not strong

o

and clever enough to take care of himself?'
'Is he?' said Gordon, still in that hard
tone. • Well. I gave up the Guards to
remain with him at Oxford "

• I thought it was because you wished to
Kettle down at the Towers.' said Madcap,
whose colour had begun to sink before the

energy of the young man, so that in ten
minutes he had gained that place in her
esteem which twenty-one years of honest,
unselfish service had not bought him.

I could have settled down here all the
same,' said Gordon. ' I should have enjoyed
a few years in the army down to the
very ground. I was never cut out for pursuits
such as Doune loves; for, as you say,
I have no brains — never had any.'

Madcap said nothing, but looked at him
with new eyes, as, with averted head, he
went on speaking.

I am talking like a sweep,' he said,
but you have provoked me into it; and
whatever I have done for Douiic, I take no
credit for it — it was not for him.' He
turned and looked at her; and through all
his anger and trouble, the yearning, eager
look in this eyes showed like a rift of 1)1 ue

sky through clouds, and touched Madcap to
the heart.

We have never quarrelled before,
Geordie, much,' she said, with a little
tremble of the mouth —

Like ony hinny pear ' —
whose lovely corners now drooped as
sadly as usually they curled up in mischief
; ' and you are going away tomorrow
. . . and I do not want you to go —
angry

His face changed as one may see a field
of grain that is colourless beneath a stormy
sky pass suddenly into a flood of gold —
one knows not how, one knows not whence
but light is there and so, in a
human soul, love will work the self same
miracle; and Madcap drew back startled at
the transfiguration her words had wrought
in the young fellow's face.

Madcap,' he cried, forgetting to think of
whether he were sitting or standing (though,
in point of fact, he was kneeling), ' I have
been a brute to you — but I was so jealous
and so miserable — and you'll forgive me,
dear, won't you ?' he said humbly, as he
took the slender, listened hand, prayer-book
and all, and kissed it passionately.

Now, if he had kept up his hardheartedness
two minutes longer, perhaps if he had
boxed her ears soundly, as he had threatened,
she might have taken him as master
for once and all ' under good greenwood -
tree;' for her spirit had responded to his
manliness, and next to her father and
Doune she had always loved him best —
and often the second-best love ends by
becoming the first.

But that kiss made him once more her
slave, and the lesson of love was as yet

beyond her comprehension, since there was
no inward teaching to enable her to learn
it . . and so Gordon got a stone for
bread when she said, with her hand still in
his :

You know I love you, and I cannot bear
for you to go away; and tomorrow this
time I shall be crying over you both '

'- Both !' He could have let go her hand,
but that he was ashamed of his late outbreak,
and wanted to atone for it. And there
were tears in her eyes, rarely enough permitted
by her three faithful henchmen. Yet
he risked all as he said :

Are you crying for Doune, or for me f

She looked at him with the tears in her
eyes, trembling but still fallen on her
cheeks, and perhaps (though so young)
some glimmering of love came to her then,
and unwittingly she stood on its brink,

perhaps — for who shall ^^ to a moment
the turn of the tide, the decline of a sunset,
or the meridian of summer ? — she might
have taken the golden moment that led onto
happiness and safety, but that some
need from within, some lack from without,
stayed her.

Yet both were so young, and both so
beautiful, so inclined to each other, in
years, tastes, and every natural law of
affinity, that love between them might be
as natural and lovely as it only is when
like pairs with like ; yet Gordon felt that
the moment was missed and the opportunity
gone, as she said, holding up her face to
him like a scolded child who seeks to make
amends :

You'll kiss me, Geordie, and befriends"
?

Perhaps the sanctity of her youth sank

into him then . . . perhaps the thought of
certain blemishes in his life shamed him
. . but as they leaned their two yoimg
heads together, curiously alike, as a beautiful
youth and a maiden often are, he only
kissed her cheek.

Was he a fool ? I trow not.

CHAPTER II.

'Judgment and sentiment, each in their turn
replacing one another, give good counsel.'

OU have taken a long while to
walk home,' said Mr. Eyre,
as Madcap entered his study,
and came quickly to his side ; * had Gordon
some entertaining story to tell you
to-day ?'

He held her from him as he spoke, and
looked at her keenly; but her colour neither
rose nor fell as she said :

Oh no, father ! but he was out of sorts,
and miserable, and we quarrelled; but it's

all right noah — we've kissed and made
friends.'

Mr. Eyre looked at the girl's cheek and
lips, as though he expected to find a stain
on them, then said :

Pray, what did you quarrel about ?'

He thought I cared only for you and
Doune,' she said, hanging her head a little;
but I do love him — next to you two, better
than anyone in the world.'

So we are first ?' said Mr. Eyre.

Yes,' she said, looking at him wistfully
and tenderly, for with Madcap familiarity
had never bred contempt in her for her
father — ' you and Doune, Doune and
you.'

^ Poor Gordon !' said Mr. Eyre, as, summoned
from the past, a girl's face rose up
before him, unkindled, with no light of
love on it — yet a betrothed wife, and presumably

beyond the reach of any other man's
love.

He sighed as he looked, and felt her arms
round his neck. After all, would not his
own Madcap have been happier with Frank
than she had ever been with Am, and should
he now seek to part two young souls who intime
might learn to conjugate the verb ' to
love,' as well as if they had begun with that
passion which almost invariably ends in
disaster ?

'Child!' he said abruptly, 'I am going
away.'

She lifted her head from his shoulder,
and drew back, a startled look in her
eyes.

Going away, Dad ?' she said, her voice
chilled by that curious foreboding that had
dwelt in her mind all day ; ' are you going
up with the boys ?'

VOL. I. 17

N'o/ he said ; ' farther than that — at the
outside, I may be away two months.'

Two months ! and save for that one flying
visit to PopLar, he had not slept out of
his bed a single night these twelve years ;
and tears were in Madcap's eyes as she
said :

Where are you going, father ?'

Here was a question he had not anticipated;
but his answer came without a
pause.

I am going on business — business connected
with your mother.'

Is it so urgent ?' she said, looking anxiously
in his face ; ' can anything do her
any good now, or make her happier than
she is ?'

For to the girl, who knew only that her
mother had died in childbirth, that mother s
lot had seemed a beautiful one ; for does not

the Virgin Mary convey straight to heaven
all those who die in ' strong travailino-' ?

Yes, it is urgent enough,' he said, not
heeding her last question ; ' and yet it has
been waiting for my attention these twelve
years. I have been supine in my dotage,
but I am awake now ; and you'll be happy
enough, child, while I'm away.'

He looked at her, thinking that to lease
her thus was a fainter pang than that which
a mere momentary absence from her mother
used to cost him ; for, as once he had
merged the older in the younger Madcap,
so now the child was merged in the
mother.

Who was it that said "■ a woman of
forty is only beautiful to those who have
loved her in her youth?' he said, getting
up, and pacing restlessly the room ; ' and
she would be verging towards that by now

17—2

yet more lovely than you are, or ever
will be

He looked searchingly at the girl, who
had paled but did not shrink before this
new and unsuspected phase of his character,
then said :

Does not the fashion change once in
twelve years ? For see here ' — he unlocked
a drawer, and brought out a full-length
miniature — 'here is her very dress, her hat,
just as she wore them to church on the
first Sunday after our marriage ; and you
are wearing their very doubles ' (he held
the portrait out as she advanced to look).
But the portrait itself is a wretched daub,
and you'll never get any real idea of her
from that, or her picture. You must
look in the glass if you want to see her
image.'

Am I so like her, father ?' said the girl,

looking at him steadfastly, and subduing
each sign of alarm at the excitability of
manner visible in the usually cold, proud
man.

Yes,' he said, looking at her fixedly,
you are so like her that you have reminded
me of her. Good God ! to think she has
lain out yonder, cold and forgotten — forgotten
through twelve years !'

No !' said the girl firmly ; ' she has
never been forgotten. Not a day has passed
but I have laid flowers above her ; and
when Doune is at home we oro to2;-ether.'

But I laid none,' said Mr. Eyre ; 'though
I have plucked a daisy or two ; and her blood
cries out to me.'

It is at rest said Madcap softly ; ' and
though we shall oro to her, she will not
return to us ; and there are the living to
consider as Avell as the dead.'

You will do well enough without me,
child,' said Mr. Eyre grimly : ' the book of
youth is more suitable to your reading than
that of age, and to-day I've woke up to the
fact that I am near sixty, and that whatever
work I have to do, I must do quickly.'

You are not old,' she said, with tears in
her eyes, as she remembered Gordon's
words ; ' yoa are a dear, beautiful, darling
Dad, as you always were, and ever will be '
and with a sob she reached uj) her arm,
and caught him as he would have passed her.

No, no, child,' he said ; ' I am old — I
have looked at myself in the glass, and
there are two lifetimes at least between you
and me. There was only one between me
and your mother, so to-day she seems
nearer than you are. And you will be
happy enough with the boys — she was
never as happy with hers, as with me.'

He was walking quickly to and fro as he
spoke, startling Madcap with the signs of
excitement that pointed surely to brain-mischief
; but he caught the fear in her
eyes as it rose, and said :

I'm sane enough, child — but to wake
out of a sleep, a sleep of twelve years, to
find so much left undone that ought to have
been done '

But have you not done much ?' she
said, her young voice unconsciously stern ;
have you not made your children happy,
and would she have wished more ?'

So I have made you happy. Madcap,'
he said, looking at her \ ' and whatever
sins may be on my shoulders, I can tell
her that when I see her. And now we'll
go to lunch, and then I have business
to do, though it's Sunday • and after,
we'll go for a walk instead of to church,

and I'll tell you all your duties, as you
will be the young Squire while I'm
away.'

His eyes were brilliant, he was unlike his
usual self as he led her to the dining-room,
where the young men and lunch had long
awaited them.

He is handsomer than Doune,' was
Gordon's thought, as the pair came in ;
and he understood better that infatuation of
Mrs. Eyre for her husband, which had
hitherto seemed to him a fable.

For he was so old, and she so young.
How could they have loved each other as
Gordon and the younger Madcap could
have loved, had she been willing ?

So I have kept you waiting,' said Mr.
Eyre, as he sat down at the head of the
table, with Madcap on his right ; ' and yet
I am hungry, too :' and he carved for them

all with vigour, and even helped himself
with a liberal hand.

So you are going away tomorrow,
boys,' he said, presently. ' Well, I am
going too ; but farther than you.'

Where are you going, father ?' said
Doune, looking up astonished, while Gordon
was wondering what made Madcap so pale
and unlike herself.

I am going on business connected with
your mother, and perhaps I may travel
with you as far as town.'

And what will Madcap do all alone ?'
said Doune, with some dissatisfaction in his
voice. ' Couldn't you put off your travels,
sir, till I am at home again to take care of
my sister ?'

Not I,' said Mr. Eyre. ' I've put them
off these twelve years, and they'll wait no
longer. And the child will be happy

enough.' He turned to look at her. ' She
shall be my Squire — a madcap Squire —
transact all my business, answer my letters
'

Then you expect to be gone some time,
father ?' interrupted Doune.

Two months, perhaps — more or less,'
said Mr. Eyre.

Then I think, sir, with all respect to
you, that Madcap should have some one
with her during so long and perhaps un-uncertain
an absence as yours promises
to be.'

Oh ! there's Nan,' said Mr. Eyre carelessly
; ' the child couldn't have a better
sheep-dog, and I'll have no half-educated
women or people of that sort, to spoil her
mind and manners. And of course she'll
see no company — not even young Busby,'
he added, with rather a grim look at

Gordon, and beneath which the young
fellow coloured.

So that's settled,' said Mr. Eyre ; ' but
you boys are drinking nothing' — and he
told the butler to bring up some rare old
Burgundy that they were fond of, and when
it came, he would have Madcap drink a
little of it too ; but by some mischance she
spilt the wine on its way to her lips, so
that the drops ran down over her white
gown like blood.

Mr. Eyre started violently as he saw the
trifling occurrence. In that very chair her
mother had sat, and he had given her a
glass of that very same old wine, and she
had spilled it on her white gown ; and afterwards
he had thought of it as an omen of
evil, though he had been in such high
spirits as to be ' fey' that night.

Was everything in league to remind him

of her that day ? Why, the very dessert
was her favourite one, and there was even a
little dish of those sweetmeats with which
he used to stuff her pocket for the nursery,
and Gordon was sitting where Frank used
to sit, and curiously like him ; and the
very butler who Alas serving them was the
one who had waited on the elder Madcap,
and who, having left the Red Hall With
the other servants after his young mistress's
death, had been traced out by Mr. Eyre
on his return, and offered his old place.

He glanced round the room — all was just
as when she lived, save that the oak
furniture and wainscoting were a shade
blacker with age, the crimson of the
hangings a little faded ; and through the
open window he saw in the distance the little
village, that lay as though in the hollow of
the horseshoe formed bv the Lovel woods.

It was a room that fairly represented the
rest of the house, one in which generations
of Eyres had lived and died, neither adding
to nor taking away much, restoring where
it was necessary, but as nearly as possible
replacing worn-out things with others of
the same pattern ; so that, mellowed by
age and kept bright by happy voices, it had
been to both Madcaps that hallowed and
beautiful thing, a ' home.'

Each loved life in the open air, and knew
nature's every mood by heart ; each was
simple in her tastes, caring nothing for
gauds or jewels, but bred to those natural
ones that strew the earth at our every step,
shining in new colours day by day, and forever
and ever renewing themselves to us so
long as we have ej^es to see, and heart to
seek them.

'Why, this is a Quakers' meeting,' said

Mr. Eyre, rousing himself as the butler
softly closed the door, shaking his grey
head at the signs of mischief he saw in his
master. 'Madcap, little maid, will you
have some sweets ?' and he half filled her
plate as he spoke.

But the sweets lay untouched ; and when
he looked at her, it was to find her
struggling desperately against tears, her
second foolish outburst that day.

Why, Madcap !' he said ; then, nth a
sudden revulsion of feeling, and all his old
tenderness for her, went to her side, and
put his arms round her.

Dad,' she said, her voice steady, though
tears rolled down her cheeks, ' Dad — don't
go away ; trouble will come of it, and Ave
are all so happy. Dontgo.^

This hot day has upset you,' said Mr.
Eyre ; ' but you'll be better by-and-by,' lie

added, as Gordoiij unable to endure the
sight of her tears, rose and went to the
window. ' Come, we'll fetch your hat and
go out; it will be cool enough now in the
shade ;' and he led her out of the room.

Neither of the young men spoke when
left alone. Gordon was feeling more than
ever that there was trouble in the air; and
yet, early that morning, he had been able
to see no cloud on the horizon save his
inevitable departure for two months on the
morrow.

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

G., C. i: Co.

^S'

W0

\

L I B Mary

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of Ill Noise

'W^^

BY

HELEN Matters,

AUTHOR OF ' COMIN' THRO' THE RYE,' ETC.

IN There VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON.

$3uWi0hcrs in ordinary to 'g)tx 4Hn]cstj|) the Queen.

1884.

[All Rights Reserved.]

BOOK II. — continued.

VOL. n. 18

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/eyresacquittalse02mathe

And ye maun shape it, lifeless, cheerless

{Blaw, law, Law winds, hlaiu);
And he maun sein it, needle, headless,

(And the ivied has hlaivn my plaid atva').'

ND pray what could be the ' business'
connected with Mr. Eyre's
late wife that took him abroad
so suddenly? Was not all business closed
to the young wife and mother who lay
sound asleep out yonder, side by side With
her first sweetheart, and each with ' a red
rose on his breast ' ?

Doune Alas the first to stir, and frowned
as he went out : he had long ago mastered

18—2

his old jealousy, and the ' black drop of
original sin' that the angels are said to
have squeezed out of Mohammed's heart
when he was an infant, had gradually
'dried up in the brother's breast. But he
felt that here was something amiss, something
that he was shut out from, and with a
boy's fierce prejudices regarding the safety
of the women of his family, he blamed his
father for the carelessness that would leave
the girl unguarded for two whole months.

But for those laurels that he had worked
night and day to win, that he knew were
now within his grasp, he would have stayed
to watch over her; and dear as was ambition
to the ardent, brilliant youth, he was
within an ace of throwing up everything to
stay at home and guard his sister.

He went to his father later, and told him
this.

'Whom do you fear?' said Mr. Eyre
coldly; ' the servants of this house are all
old and tried ; in the village there is not
one soul that would harm her. And as for
lovers' — he paused — ' the ideas horrible,
but must be entertained one of these days,
and of course she'll marry Gordon.'

'You would not oppose it, sir?' said
Doune, drawing a deep breath, as one
relieved of intense anxiety.

No,' said Mr. Eyre, with an effort; ' but
not for some years — it is like cutting oiF an
arm or a leg, but necessary, I suppose, and
better fathers than I have lived through it.'

Later in the day came Gordon, who said,
without prefix of any sort :

'I love your daughter, sir; when I come
home in July, may I ask her if she will
marry me?'

You have not asked her yet — there has

been no foolish love-making between you?*
said Mr. Eyre, looking at him keenly.

No,' said Gordon, looking down; 'she
is so young it would be a kind of
sacrilege; and yet' — he raised his head
boldly — ' I would have asked her this
mornings if she had not laughed at me so,
and I saw that as yet she does not know
what love means.'

And do you?' said Mr. Eyre, seeing his
wife's first lover over again in the young
man who stood before him.

Did you wait till you were forty before
you found out what love meant, sir?' said
Gordon steadily, ' to my mind, youth is
the time in which to love and be happy
and a man's first love is his purest and
best'

You have never tried a last one,' said
Mr. Eyre carelessly, ' so you can't tell.

But if she must marry (though I see no
reason for it), she may as well marry you
as anybody else. I don't see any rivals
ahead,' he added, with a sort of grimace ;
as you say, she is young, and wooers
have not yet discovered what a treasure the
Eed Hall contains ; but, mind you, there
shall be no engagement till she is sixteen,
and no marriage till a year or two after fiat
By-the-way, all this is without her consent
— are you sure of it? To be sure, she
cried to-day, and perhaps that was for you
though I took her tears to myself '

I can do no more than love her, and tell
you so; the rest lies with her,' said Gordon,
with true manliness, as he went away,
leaving Mr. Eyre to that 'business' which
his coming had disturbed.

Although the Sabbath evening, lie was
deep in those matters that a prudent and

sensible man sets in order before setting out
on a journey, not in itself dangerous, but
from which it is possible he may not return.
On the table before him lay the reply
to the telegram that a servant had that
afternoon ridden ten miles to despatch,
waiting for the answer, that came more
quickly than was expected. It was dated
from the ' Saucy Poll,' Poplar, and announced
the sailing of the Arizona at
daybreak on Tuesday morning, a berth
being retained for Mr. Eyre, according to
his telegram just received.

When the heaviest part of his correspondence
and work was done, Mr. Eyre, catching
sight of that open sheet, felt a sudden conviction
of the uselessness of this voyage,
and for a moment (common-sense having
returned to him in the monotony of his
work) wavered in his determination to go.

For what trace, after twelve years, could
he hope to find of Hester Clarke in that
port at which she had touched but for a
few brief hours ?

He had wakened too late, and the clue
was lost; yet, being awake, he must be up
and doing, and better seek her vainly than
not seek at all. If the woman lived, he
would leave no stone unturned to find her,
and perhaps his cessation of pursuit had
made her confident of safety, so that there
might be the less difficulty in finding her.
If she were dead — and at the thought Mr.
Eyre's heart contracted with that bleak
rage which had moved him when he looked
down on his dead friend — then he had
still his home and the younger Madcap to
welcome him.

Though her mother so entirely filled his
thoughts that day, the old, tender, yearning

love for his daughter had returned to him
during the past few hours.

For he was but an egoist yet, could he
but have known it — could only love what
loved him first and alone ; and he knew that
not Doune's approaching departure, not
Gordon's wretchedness at leaving her, had
moved Madcap's heart to that passion of
tears which the thought of ' Dad's' absence
had unloosed. After all, why not let revenge
go, the present remain, make for
his young daughter, at least, a life that
should be

^ One rjrand^ sweet song ? . . .

Vengeance could not make her sleep the
sounder ; and to have the whole terrible
story raked up — to see himself in his
children's eyes as a thing to break their
hearts with shame, why, surely any sane
man might have turned his back on the

thought and the distempered visions of the
day, and gone out into the summer evening,
thanking God for the peace that was
yet within his keeping.

But Mr. Eyre was not then in his right
mind ; one of those crises of excitement
that sometimes at long, sometimes at short
intervals invariably overtook each male of
his race, had seized him now, and he must
work out whatsoever destiny he carved to
himself in those feverish moments. He
turned back to his table, his cheque-book,
his accounts, and instructions to his absent,
working at them till far into the night,
and long after the rest of the household
slept.

At daybreak he rose, and, extinguishing
the lights, went to his daughter's room,
where he found her fast asleep, with tears
on her cheeks, that had also fallen on one

of the young, tender arms that pillowed her
head.

Where had he seen something like this
before? he thought, as he stood looking at
her. Presently he remembered it
had been at the White Lodge, the late
Duke of Marmiton's house, where for his
own selfish whim he had kept his wife,
refusing her leave to go home to see her
children, and she had gone to sleep with
tears on her cheeks, with Dody's gift of
sweetbread in her hand, and next mornings
had risen early, when, riding upon an ass,
and escorted by Lord Lovel, she had set
out on the journey that had made the
scandal of the county.

Yet Mr. Eyre had no more ruth noah
than then ; he was still 'fey,' a man who
must e'en dree out his weird to its bitterest
conclusion, and upon whom praise and

blame were alike wasted, unless the responsive
impulse came from within.

This morning it was absent — it was as
his lost Madcap that he felt the pang of
parting with his daughter, and stooped his
lips to the lock of bright hair that lay loose
on the pillow.

By eight o'clock he was in the saddle to
ride to the County Asylum (seven miles
distant), and by nine he had reached it.

There is no change in her,' said the
governor, bowing low to his visitor ; ' she
just plays with the diamonds from morning
till night ; but not a word of sense does she
speak, though we've watched her closely
these twelve years.'

Perhaps the sight of the woman Clarke
might rouse her,' said Mr. Eyre. ' I'm
going to look for her — though that's between
ourselves.'

The governor bowed again, but with a
certain hesitation of manner.

I think,' he said, ' there is not a doubt
Digges committed the murder, egged on
by the woman Josephine for the sake of
the jewels. But in some way Hester Clarke
is mixed up with it, and the most wonderful
thing in maniacs is the way they will keep
lock and key on some private brain-cell that
we can't pick, however cunningly we try;
and that there's some such knowledge she's
watching over, you can tell by her very
glance.'

Take me to her,' said Mr. Eyre abruptly,
and followed his guide into a room where,
clean, happy, smiling, Josephine Digges advanced
to meet them.

She had grown stout in the midst of the
plenty for which Mr. Eyre had paid. She
was happy in the diamonds that sparkled

on her round neck and arms, and grasped a
bit of tissue-paper with which she had been
rubbing them. But at sight of Mr. E3rre a
shade passed over her features; and she stood
still as one on guard.

What did you see Hester do ?' he said,
his eyes fixed on hers. ' Did Hester kill
her, or did Digges ?'

The woman listened attentively, a gleam
of reason seeming to start across her face.

Hester stole up the ladder,' she said, as
one who accidentally remembers a forgotten

fact ; ' but it was all over before then '

and she laughed vacantly, and sat down
on the ground to begin polishing anew one
of her diamond bracelets.

What did she see ?' said Mr. Eyre,
loosing his hold on her, as her gaze wandered
away.

Murder I' said the woman, not looking

up, though she shivered. ' But diamonds
are beautiful !' And she kissed the stones
passionately as the two men left the room.

Have her watched more closely than
ever,' said Mr. Eyre, as he departed.
*" Murder will out," sooner or later.'

^ But this is " out " long ago, sir,' said
the man earnestly, as he looked at Mr. Eyre's
haggard face, won to him in spite of all
previous convictions ; ' and the murderer
sleeps safe enough (thanks to you) in Lovel
Churchyard, if you would but think so.'

Perhaps,' said Mr. Eyre indifferently, ashe
rode away at a hard gallop to pay another
visit before he left home that day.

He reached Synge Lane not much before
ten, and was met by the same silent, stubbornly
civil woman, who seemed not to have
aged by a hair during the past twelve
years.

Where is Hester Clarke ?' he said, as he
alighted.

God knows,' said the woman, with an
accent of truth that Mr. Eyre recognised,
for I don't;

She has never written you since she
enclosed to you a letter for me?' he said.

'Never!' said the woman; 'it strikes
me once by whiles that she's dead. Have
you been doing anything to her ?' she added
suddenly.

Not I,' said Mr. Eyre ; ' in fact, I'd forgotten
her; but now I want her — and found
she shall be, if she's alive.'

Perhaps she'd better be dead than found
living by some,' said the woman bitterly'.
I'd rather think she was dead, than tormented
of devils.'

Am I the devil in this case ?' said mr.
Eyre, not waiting for her answer, as, certain

VOL. II. 19

that she knew nothing, he went out and
rode away, having barely time to make his
final home arrangements and catch the
morning train to town.

He found Madcap bright and busy, seeing
to a hundred comforts for himself that he
had overlooked ; while the ' boys,' as she
still called them, came in for a large share
of her attention. If she packed up a stray
tear or two with her father's shirts, Doune's
books, and Gordon's cricket-flannels, who
should count them but herself, when, brave
and smiling, yet desolate in the midst of
this breaking of her household gods, she
stood at the door to see the departure of all
she loved on earth?

Her tears had been got over yesterday;
to-day she was used to sorrow, and kissed
two of them without a sob, her father coming-last
of all.

Good-bye, Gordon,' she said, and kissed
him first, on the cheek, with her arm half-lifted
to his shoulder.

Good-bye, Doune,' she said, and kissed
him on the lips, with her arms about him.

But to her father she clung, and kissed his
neck only, in an agony of grief that knew
no consolation.

Yet her arms released him first; it washer
impulse that despatched him when, forever
and ever, Mr. Eyre left peace and happiness
behind him as he drove away from
the Eed Hall.

19—2

The Muse, nae poet ever sand her,
Till hy himseV he learned to warder
Beside some trotting hum's meander,
An' no think 7 lang.'

ADCAP had trotted after her own
especial burn, within the house
and out of it, for a whole week
all by ' herself and she emphatically found
the way ' lang.'

She loved the sound of her own voice,
and did not always listen to that of the
trotting burn's ;' but who could talk all day
long, pray, to an old butler, or an old

woman who was always at her needle ? and
might not the very flowers pall on you, if
for ever and ever they nodded, but did not
speak ?

Even the woods had grown monotonous,
she thought, as she turned her back on the
Eed Hall one morning, about a week after
her father's departure, bound as she was on
an errand that did not raise her spirits, for
it was to Job, who had failed visibly during
the last few weeks, and was now sinking
slowly out of life, to the last clinging firmly
to the belief that God would not permit
him to die till he had seen his ' salvation

The word stood to him for his ' little
Master Frank,' but his faith was long in
proving ; and though Madcap knew how
impossible was the chance of Frank Lovel's
return, she did not strive to reason the oil
man out of his fancy, but long ago had

fallen into his whim of talking of his master
as if he were alive,

He'll be getting to look a bit older now,'
Job had said to her a few days before this,
her last sorrowful visit ; ' he must be nigh
upon thirty-nine now — quite grown up.
But he's just as beautiful as ever, bless
you ! it's his heart that makes his face shine
so bright that he's better than any sun. I
how he'll come,' added the old man ; ' but
if he should come a bit late, when I'm past
knowing about it, will you tell him. Miss
Madcap, that I waited for him up to the
last minute ? And don't let them shut the
front door. There's no thieves hereabouts,
and I've kept it on the jar for him these
twelve years ; and I wouldn't like him to
come home, and find his own door shut
against him. You'll mind all this. Miss
Madcap, and be particular about the door ?'

Yes she said gently, and sat reading
to him for a while, and long after he seemed
to have sunk into a doze ; but as she rose
to go, he opened his eyes and looked at her
earnestly.

There's something I want to tell you,'
he said in a whisper, ' something I've never
told a living soul till to-day ; and wouldn't
tell now, if I didn't know the time's so
short. When my little Master Frank comes
back, ask him to show you the inside of his
right hand. If there's a diamond shaped
scar in the fleshy part of the thumb, it's
Mm ; if the mark isn't there, then it's not
Master Frank, but an impostor — though the
other was a case of mistaken identity, and
perhaps your father really believed he was
burying the right man.'

The mark was not on his hand ?' said
Madcap, a little startled at Job's words.

It was not there,' said the old man
doggedly. 'First and last I Shouldn't and
coutdrCt believe the coffin held Master
Frank ; and I got the lid off, and there he
seemed to be — the face was his face, the hair,
height, even expression just his, and my
heart broke as 1 wished him a last goodbye.
But when I kissed his hand, I lifted
it, and something moved me to look at
its inside, and the mark that he got when
he cut it well-nigh to pieces as a lad was
gone''

Why did you not tell my father ?' said
Madcap, wondering if the old man supposed
himself to be speaking the truth, or really
spoke it.

Job turned aside that she mio^ht not seethe
look of hatred that Mr. Eyre's name
always brought to his face ; but when
Madcap left, he blessed her with trembling

lips, and looked wistfully after her as she
went.

^ Little master would be no older now
than Mr. Eyre was when he married her
mother,' thought Job, who had secretly
woven a romance about the only two
creatures he loved on earth, and who felt
death as hard at eighty, and himself as
prematurely cut oiF, as if he had been a lad
of twenty-one.

And the girl would miss him keenly,
more than ever now, she thought, as, with
a little basket on her arm, she paused
before plunging into the glare of the cowslip
meadow that divided her from the
Lovel woods, and in which, as the
nightingale's song ceased, those million
pretty heads had begun to wither. She
could not bear to see the oxlips paling, the
timid spring flowers thrust out of their

places by that gay, insolent army that ever
waits upon early summer, and with the hot
breath of mid May spreads royally through
the land ; for, like her mother, she valued
more a scentless dog-violet than the choicest
rose, and a cluster of primroses than the
proudest plume of garden laylocks that
ever tossed itself in suit of white or lilac.

Long ago the pale armies of anemones
had escaped, trembling on their hair-stalks,
from the velvet-gloved fingers of the tree-roots
into the recesses of the woods ; long
ago the yellow mist of daffodils had ceased
to make her heart ache for lonoino- at their
beauty ; the white streak of the cuckoo-flower
had fled away with the cuckoo's song,
and the blue carpet of hyacinths had withered,
and lost its beauty as in a single night.

For the may-trees were all a-bloom, fi'om
whitest white to purest coral, from coral to

pink, and from pink to blaze of deepest
crimson, so that Madcap's eyes ached as
she looked at them that morning, and she
longed to reach the cool shadow and silent
glades of her adored woods.

She thought she knew them by heart,
but those wild inaccessible haunts, where
formerly the deer couched unmolested,
where curious flowers grew (born of the
shade), where you might walk a mile or
more without once seeing a glimmer of the
sky overhead, were not easily learned ; for
seven miles of wood may make a kingdom.

To Madcap these glades were a joy, an
endless delight, a place in which she might
wander as one who stands lonely on the
seashore, and think out some of those perplexing
questions that will rise in a young
girl's mind, and that not even a mother ora
father knows always how to answer.

She sighed, and could have wept, as she
stood on the other side of the cowslip
meadow ; for she felt starved of human
voices, human company, missed the strong
male influence that had hitherto swayed her
life, longed to hear the firm step, the
beloved voice, to feel once more the predominant
sense of safety that the shelter of
Mr. Eyre's strong arm had hitherto afforded
her.

Had he not been a little selfish ? she
thought, with the first shadow of blame she
had ever cast on that worshipped man ;
might he not have found some one who
could have talked with her, without, as he
said, spoiling her manners, and ruining her
mind ?

To be sure she had her books, and he
had marked her out a course of studies that
might astonish a fashionable * blue ;' but

books were not people ; and Madcap the
younger was one of those people who lo\'e
laughter, a joke, innocent fooling of all
kinds, and was such good company that
long ago the ' boys' had found it far more
delightful to them than their own.

Never before had her father and Doune
been absent together, and then there was
Gordon — poor Gordon ! always overlooked
because he was unselfish, and never got into
rages ; if only he were living at the Towers
at that very moment ! thought Madcap, as
at last she took the plunge into the cowslip
meadow, but too depressed to run across it,
as she had done only last week.

Long ago a gate had been fixed in the
hedge that connected the Lovel and Eyre
estates ; but the sun was in her eyes, and
perhaps a tear as well ; and she saw
nothing beyond her as she came through

the long meadow grass, stooping here and
there to pluck a faded cowslip, and laying
them one by one in her basket above the
cordial that the butler had put up for Job.

Some one who stood on the other side of
the gate, and saw her still afar off, started
back with a low, fierce cry, mor. of fear
than pain ; then, like one blinded, dashed
his hands before his eyes, trembling as in
mortal fear, for he thought that he had
suddenly gone mad.

He did not stir as those silent steps
approached him, did not look up when,
though he heard them not, he knew them
near . so had his lost sweetheart looked
and moved, so had she carried her basket,
and plucked a bell cup here and there ; and
lie had been dead these many years, and it
was her phantom that came lightly over the
cowslips' heads, perchance remembering that

once before she had met him thus, and she
must meet him once again, in the one cool
chamber of a madman's brain ?

Madcap's eyes were flooded with the sun,
and she saw nothing as she pushed the gate
back, and ran quickly into the wood, when
the sight of him startled her, for he seemed
almost old, ill, perhaps in trouble, for why
was he hiding his face thus ?

I beg your pardon,' she said gently,
and it was the voice of his dead sweetheart,
and struck to his very heart ; ' but are you
ill — in trouble — can I help you ?'

He tore his hands away then, and looked
at her, timidly touched a fold of her dressa
lock of bright hair that lay on her
shoulder, all as one Who doubts the evidence
of his senses ; then said, as one who
struggles still against it, ' They call you —
they call you '

^ Madcap,' she said simply, and seeing
some terrible story written in the haggard
face at which she gazed ; ' I am called after
my mother, Madcap Eyre.'

But she had no daughter,' said the
stranger, growing paler with each word he
spoke ; ' she had but two boys — and a little
puny infant that died soon after its birth.'

No — I lived,' said the girl, drawing a
little nearer to him as she saw that he
staggered, and seemed about to fall ; ' father
thought I had died too . . . were you a
friend of father's ?'

But with a groan and sigh he had fallen
sideways to the ground, and lay with closed
eyes, and no movement of any kind, so that
for the moment she thought he was dead :
then, kneeling beside him, felt for his heart,
and knew that he had only fainted.

In the cowslip meadow a brook ran, and

the girl sped to it like an arrow, and flew
back as swiftly, her straw hat half filled
with water, no more than the other half
having leaked out.

But in her short absence he came to himself,
and muttered :

His child, and she loves him ' — then
swooned away as if at the horror of the
thought.

He was longer in coming out of that
second faint than the first, and the girl
grew pale as she bathed his brows in vain ;
then, luckily, thought of the cordial, and,
lifting his head on one arm, poured a
quantity down his throat.

But worn and old and weary as he looked
to her young eyes, as one who has suffered
much, and with the seam of an old sabre-cut
disfiguring one bronzed cheek, he yet
seemed to Madcap the goodliest man, next

VOL. II. 20

to her father, that her eyes had ever ht on —
a man who might be a hero, if the lines of
his face spoke truth.

Soon he opened his eyes and looked at
her, at the pale young face so near his own,
felt the trembling of the slender arm that
supported the weight of his head, and, by a
great effort, stumbled to his feet, and spoke.

Pray forgive me,' he said ; ^ I never did
such a thing before in my life — but I think
my old wound must have reopened ; and I
had not tasted anything for twenty-four
hours, I was in such haste to get to Job.'

To Job ?' she said, and started and
looked at him eagerly, a wild improbable
thought darting through her brain ; then
glanced swiftly at his right hand, which
was gloved.

*Are you Frank?' she said, trembling
and paling as he had seen her mother under

strong emotion ; ' and you have come back
to him at last — and just in time ?'

My Christian name is Frank he said,
buckling on his sword to the stiffest fight
(and he had fought many, both within and
without) into which he had ever plunged.
I was a brother officer of Lord Lovel ; we
joined about the same time, and afterwards
fought side by side at Sevastopol.'

So you knew him ?' she said, looking
earnestly at the man before her ; ' was he
not good, noble — a hero in his life as in his
death ?'

No hero,' he said ; ' only a man who
tried to do his duty.'

He died like one,' said Madcap, turning
away from him, ' and he could do no more
. . but, somehow — somehow T always
clung to a wild, forlorn hope that he would
come back.'

20—2

Why did you think that ?' said the
stranger abruptly ; 'was not Frank Lovel
buried sound and deep by your father ?
Do the dead ever rise after fourteen years'
sleep 7

Do they not rise again ?' she said, trembling,
she knew not why ; ' did you not mistake
me just now for my mother, while I
mistook you for him

^ And if they rose,' he said sadly, ' would
it be for their own happiness or ours ?
Would they not quickly wish themselves
back whence they had departed ?'

No,' she said, as she stood before him,
slim and tall, in her white gown, amidst
the dancing shadows ; and he wondered if
anything on earth could be as lovely as a
very young, unconscious girl, spoiled by no
tricks of coquetry, and fearless as a child
. . ' Job and I Avould have welcomed him

back, if he had come to us straight from
the dead. And still for us —

" He haunts his native land
As an immortal youth ; his hand

Guides every plough ;
He sits beside each ingle-nook ;
His voice is in each singing brook,

Each rustling bough." '

Do his people remember him so well ?'
said the stranger, in a startled voice ; ' yet
he lived among them so short a time '

But he died to their honour,' cried the
girl swiftly ; 'go to his grave on Sunday,
and see how old and young lay their twigs
and flowers above him — and on week-days
Doune and I remember him.'

Doune is your brother ?'

4/

Yes,' she said proudly, * and just like
father — as everybody says I am just like
mother. How could we have better copies ?
And Doune remembers when father and

Lord Lovel were great friends, and our
mother loved him too.'

Do you ever think of her ?' he said, ashe
leaned against the gate, struggling with
his weakness.

^I think of her always,' said the girl
softly ; ' now that I am growing older, I
want her . . . but she is happy in the
Holy Mary's arms ; and she was happy all
her life long till she died.'

He looked at her eagerly. So she knew
nothing — as her mother had been saved a
knowledge of the truth, so now was her
daughter ; ay, but for ever ?

You are faint and weary,' said Madcap
anxiously ; ' and I cannot ask you
to come to the Red Hall, because father
forbade my asking anyone there in his
absence.'

Yes — I know Mr. Eyre is away,' he

said mechanically. ' He sailed in the
Arizona. Will he be gone long ?'

About two months, or perhaps longer,'
she said ; then took his hand, and, leading
him to the nearest tree, begged of him to be
seated at its foot.

You can lean your back to the bole,'
she said ; ' and here's the cordial ' — she
looked the slyest little rogue as she popped
the basket down beside him — ^ you may
drink it all if you like — if it's not too much
for you ; and you'll promise not to stii\ not
even if I don't come back for hours ?'

Laughter was flying in and out of her
eyes, mischief filled her every dimple, and
danced to the colour on her cheek ; here
was the living image of his lost sweetheart
when bent on a frolic, or some bit of fun
that she meant to keep all to herself for the
present.

He covered his eyes with his hand as if
the sun oppressed them, though he was in
coolest shadow ; but when he looked up she
was gone.

^ Sew me for shroud round face and name,
God's banner of the oriflamme.'

AUJSTDERS; said Madcap, rushing
into the butler's pantry,
and nearly upsetting its portly
occupant, ' I want a meat-pasty and bread,
and a knife and fork, and a bottle of wine —
not too heady, because of the cordial — and a
dinner-napkin; and you're to give it all tome
this minute, or perhaps he'll die !'

Yes, Miss Madcap,' said the butler, used
to these assaults on the larder and cellar,
and supposing she was bent on one of those

deeds of charity that made her the idol of
the village; and in less than ^y% minutes
she was out of the house and flying along
the path she had followed so listlessly an
hour ago.

What made her so happy ? what had sent
her spirits up with a bound ? Just the mere
delight of having some one to speak to, or
the happiness of being able to minister to
one in pain ?

She had not been gone twenty minutes in
all, yet when she pushed open the gate she
saw that he had either again fainted or fallen
asleep.

She sat down at a little distance, looking
at him earnestly, and in such wise that she
learned his face by heart, and never forgot
it; so that years after, with no portrait or
chance resemblance in any other face to remind
her of him, she could recall each line

and feature in it, and perhaps unconsciously
enshrined him in that heart as a hero, and
from then to her dying day thought of him
as no other.

And this man had fought by Frank's
side; he had known and loved her mother,
had come to Job when he was dying — and
clearly at some trouble to himself — so that
surely he was no stranger, the girl thought,
as she sat and watched him, then said to
herself that he might have been fair once,
before time darkened his hair, and his skin
became bronzed by tropical suns ; for he
had blue eyes, and his brown beard was
flecked here and there with gold, and his
hands were as white as the narrow line between
his brows and closely cropped hair.

Perchance in his sleep some of his lost
youth and beauty came back to him, as he
lay with one arm thrown behind his head

and the other stretched relaxed on the turf ;
but somehow Madcap never thought of him
as middle-aged again In some
curious way he had taken the place of
Frank, who in even middle age must needs
be beautiful.

Presently he opened his eyes and met that
lovely, intent gaze. Springing to his feet
like a soldier whom sleep has surprised
while on guard, his startled eyes came back
to Madcap and the food spread out on the
grass beside her.

What an ungrateful brute you must
think me!' he said, kneeling down on the
grass beside her ; ' and you have gone all
that way in this blazing heat for me,
while / have been sound asleep — doing
nothing.'

You have rested yourself,' she said, nodding,
' and that is the best of all. And

now for the pasty !' and she cut a slice and
laid it on the plate, for which she had
forgotten to ask Saunders ; ' and here's
the bread ; and — oh, you must sit down ;
you can't eat on your knees.'

'No,' he said, without stirring; 'but I
can't eat — and don't ask me why,' he added,
looking wretched as her bright face fell, 'for
I can't tell you.'

Is it because it is father's bread and wine
that you won't touch it ?' said Madcap, her
busy hands falling to her sides, and looking
like a child ready to cry for disappointment
at losing a feast ; ' besides, you drank the
cordial '

You poured it down my throat,' he said,
ruefully; 'but '

What has father done to you that you
should hate him ?' she said, standing up
and looking indignantly at him, as he, too.

rose ; ' he who never wronged anyone in
his life — my dear, darling old Dad !'

Good God!' ejaculated the stranger, not
as one who spoke blasphemously, but as if
the words were wrung out of him by a
thought of horror.

And why should I not ?' she said, looking
with wonder at his averted face, and stamping
her little foot with anger ; ' is he not the
best, kindest, noblest father a child ever had ?
You cannot know him very well, or you
must be a stranger to Lovel, since every
soul in it knows something of the goodness
of Mr. Eyre!'

He drew a deep breath, then said :

Is he kind to Doune ? The boy used
to be fond of Frank Lovel.'

How could father be anything else ?'
she said, the anger of her glance faltering
as it fell on the face to which the former

worn and weary look had some back ; ' and
of course Doune remembers Lord Lovel —
who ever forgot him ? So yomig, so beautiful,
so brave !'

I never thought anything of his looks
said the stranger, as one suddenly out of
patience at her praises. ' I wish to Heaven
he could come to life for five minutes — just
to show you what a really commonplace
fellow he was ! and as to his duty, why
other men did theirs every whit as well ashe
did his.'

You are jealous of him,' said Madcap,
vexed at this ingenuousness in the man
before her. ' All men were envious of
him,' she said ; ' but now that he is dead,
you might forgive him.'

I hate all that rubbish about heroes,' he
said, still cross. ' Now, if this man had
lived, he would probably be a grave, middle-aged

man, devoted to his estate, possibly
grown stout, and a little bald

He couldn't said Madcap indignantly.
^ Oh ! I had no idea men were so mean
about one another; and if he were middle-aged,
why, you are nearly that, are you not?
And father is more — yet neither of you are
stout and stupid.'

She paused to consider him, and caught
a faint smile beneath his moustache, that was
a real blink of sunshine.

On the contrary, you are both just
right.'

'And do I seem so old to you?' he said,
with a curious note of pain in his voice, that
startled her, and almost made her forget
how keenly he had just disappointed
her.

Oh no !' she said, shaking' her bright
head. ' I prefer grown-up people to young

ones. Only the other day I told Gordon I
wished he were not so young

'Who is Gordon?'

Gordon is Lord Lovel.'

He is a good fellow?' said the stranger
eagerly. ' You like him very much ?'

Oh yes I' she said. ' I love him — next to
Doune and father.'

And he loves you?'

Yes ; more than he does Doune and
father, I think' (she sighed 'and that
makes him jealous. But he'll be better
when he's grown up,' she added sagely.

He passed his hand before his lips to hide
a smile.

But you are only a little schoolgirl yourself,'
he said gravely.

I never went to school,' she said, rather
proudly. ' Father taught me everything —
all that I know.'

VOL. II. 21

The stranger shivered, as though suddenly
a-cold ; and being a keen observer,
she thought of the pasty, and stooped for
the basket with which she had originally
started.

'I am going to Job now,' she said;
then coloured a little, as one who suddenly
grows shy ; for to succour an entire
stranger was one thing, but to take
leave of him with a little anger was another.


Do not go,' he said gently, ' because —
because it is too late.'

'He is dead!' said Madcap, standing
perfectly still, and looking at him with eyes
in which slowly, slowly rose tears as from
crystal wells ; ' and I never wished him
good-bye they did not send to me
did he ask for me?' she added, asher
tears fell on the cowslip-basket on her

arm; ' did he talk of his Httle Master Frank
as he went?'

He died happy,' said the man beside
her; 'and he did not ask for his master,
but it must have been of you he
spoke just before the last, though I
thought he rambled, and meant your
mother.'

And were you such an old friend of
his?' she said wistfully, the united-away
tears still on her cheeks — ' did you go to
him by accident, or because you knew that
he was ill ?'

I knew him long ago,' he said. ' I have
waited years for an opportunity to come
and see him' — he spoke slowly, haltingly —
and when I was able, I came. The hall-door
was open ; a woman was sound asleep
behind it; I did not wake her, but looked
for Job until I found him. lie was lying

21—2

quite conscious, and with his eyes fixed
on the door' the stranger's voice
trembled, and he turned aside . . . . ' and
at midnight he died.'

^ Oh, Job !' said the girl, with one
slender arm drawn across her eyes, and
the tears falling below on to the flowers —
^ Job / . . . . my dear old friend, and to
wait so long, and then to hear almost a
stranger's step sound for of course
he thought it was Frank did he say
anything when he died?'

Yes,' said the stranger, slowly and
reluctantly; Mie said, "Lord, now hottest
Thou Thy servant depart in peace, for I
have seen Thy salvation." '

Then he took you for Frank,' cried the
girl. ' Oh, thank God for that— that lie
died happy ! Heaven itself must have put
the thought into your heart to visit him

last night. I am going to him now,' she
added, gently; 'I shall know by one look at
his face if he thought he had found his
master.'

She quitted the stranger so quickly that
he could hardly have overtaken her had
he followed ; but he displayed no such
intention, and, with torture in his heart,
paced to and fro, with only one fixed
resolve — that she should not find him hereon
her return, nor would he ever willingly
look upon her face again.

Meanwhile, Madcap had found Job lying
on his white bed, wearing that last, most
spotless dress a human being ever wears,
as his spirit perchance has fairer habitation
now than it had on earth. She knew that
Job's hallucination had lasted to the end —
launching him happy' on that cold, perilous
journey that — now long, now short — is the

only certain one to which each living soul
is born.

He lay with face all transfigured with the
joy that had winged his ' passing,' his lips
firm and triumphant as one who has sung
his Nunc Dimittis in the fruition of perfect
faith; and Madcap could not grieve for him,
as, having gazed awhile, and kissed his
brow, she stole softly away.

The woman who had taken care of Job
and the house for years past was waiting
for her as she went out.

I hope, Miss Madcap,' she said, curtseying,
' you'll not be blaming me; but about
ten o'clock last night Job got main restless,
and would have it that I should set the
hall door ajar, and sit down beside it if I
was afeared of thieves. He can't abide a
strange face near him, and wouldn't let me
get a help in from the village; and I didn't

reckon the end to be so near, and that's the
truth. I left him quite comfortable and
listening-like, with his eyes fixed to the
door ; and then I sat down. But I was
tired. Miss Madcap, and dropped asleep,
never waking up till it was morning, and a
shameful woman I am to stand up to you
and say it ;' and the honest soul wiped away
a tear.

And then?' said Madcap quickly.

Then I ran to Job, and he was lying so
peaceful I knew he was dead; and beside
him was a gentleman, and, oh ! Miss Madcap,'
said the woman sadly, ' my heart
gave a great jump, for, thinks I, perhaps this
is Master Frank come back, and the old
man was right after all; but when the
gentleman looked round, I saw he Alas a
stranger — nobody I'd ever set eyes on in
the forty years I've lived in this ]parish.'

And you knew Lord Lovel well by
sight ?' said the girl.

Ay, all the village knew him,' said the
woman : ' but perhaps Job being dazed-like,
and hearing him come in, thought
'twas his master. God grant 'twas so!'
and she sighed as she dried her eyes.
The gentleman spoke to me very kind-like,
said he'd been an old friend of Job's,
and knew the place, and he'd like to take a
bit look round, while I was making Job
tidy. He wouldn't touch breakfast, and
went out soon ; but I couldn't send up to
yoa. Miss Madcap, because nobody came in
from the villas, and I wouldn't leave Job.
And now he's happy — but I miss the poor
soul. It's like losing the care of a child —
and a body's arms can't get along without
it for a bit at the first ; but perhaps I'll get
used to it, time-by.'

If the stranger comes back presently,
try and persuade him to eat something, for,
as you say, he has had no breakfast,' said
Madcap ; ' and he must be buried properly,
Martha, and father will pay for it when he
comes back.'

^ Eh, but there was no love lost between
them,' said the woman ; ' and Job left a bit
of money with me for that — he was proud
in his way, and the Lovels never let him
want for nothing — did Job.'

Martha's words struck disagreeably on
the girl's ears. Here was the second time
to-day a doubt had been implied of the
father whom all men delighted to honour,
and the colour flew to her cheek, as, without
bidding the woman farewell, she turned
away.

Ah ! poor soul,' said the woman softly,
as she looked after her, ' she little knows.

and please God, she never may — he's just
her idol, and 'twould break her heart to
know what's past and gone, and how her
mother died. But I reckon God Almighty
'ud never allow that.'

Madcap's heart was sad within her as she
went, but no instinct said trouble was at
hand — that Mr. Eyre's restlessness meant
mischief; while as to those doubts of him,
she cast them behind her back, and clung
to him all the more closely in spirit — her
brilliant, good, tender father.

He had been both parents in one until
very lately, Avhen she had got a new insight
all at once into her mother's pictured face,
and had woke — not gradually, but at a
bound — to the irreparable loss to her that
the mother was. The girl Alas thinking of
her now, as she went along the familiar
way that ended in the cowslip-field : would

not her mother have taught her what to
say, and what to leave unsaid, to the first
stranger who had crossed Madcap the
younger's path, yet who, oddly enough,
was her friend ?

Yet had she not been unkind to this
weary man, whose age might, perhaps,
excuse her freedoms of speech ; but, on
the other hand, was she not wronging her
father by any kindness to one who hated
him so much that he would not touch his
bread ? Distance had restored the true
proportion of things to her clear mind ; but,
unless with an abnormal woman (which
Heaven forbid), the heart is apt to step in
at odd moments, and upset the mental universe,
so that though men have died and
run out of their wits for women, no
woman's name has ever shone before the
world as a great thinker, discoverer, poet,

painter, or Writer, or has not been beaten
on all points of intellect by one of the
opposite sex.

And, to be sure, Mr. Eyre had discouraged
the study of mathematics in his daughter,
ridiculing the idea of Locke, that mathematics
made people not so much mathematicians
as reasonable creatures, but according
his intellectual lights (which burned
brightly) had made her what her mother
might have been, had that mother possessed
the daughter's brain.

For the strong man had found a hundred
wants, unsuspected in his wife, supplemented
in his daughter, since that tougher fibre of
himself (despite the outward contrast of
their looks) had waxed stronger as the
years grew, so that on intellectual grounds
they met as happily as on common ones,
and the acute vigour, the keen vision of

childhood, often shed a new light on the
page which Mr. Eyre expounded.

But strength of character did not hinder
Mr. Eyre's daughter from running when
she got within sight of the cowslip-gate,
and saw the stranger leaning across it —
fainting again, no doubt, and all through his
own obstinacy.

But he was not ill in body, only as sick
at heart as a man may be, who sees the
spring-time of his youth renewed, yet may
not taste it, may not even pause to gaze at
it, but must turn his back on the exquisite
miracle, and live in the greying shadows
of a lonely middle age, that holds no love,
yet is for ever restless beneath the throbbing
burning memory of a ' might have
b been.'

Lightly as they fell, lie heard the girls
fleet steps approach him, but did not turn

till a gentle hand touched his arm, and an
anxious voice said :

Are you ill ?'

Might a man have tears in his eyes, yet
neither look, nor be, unmanly ? Perhaps
Madcap got an insight into the real beauty
of grief when nobly and unthinkingly
borne ; perhaps she got a glimpse of the
mingled force and unselfishness of this
man's character as he turned towards her,
and she learned his heart then, at once, and
for ever.

No, I am not ill,' he said ; ' but how
long you have been — an hour, I should
think. I Alas afraid you had gone home
through the village.'

Oh no,' she said gently. ' I always
go and return by way of the cowslip-gate.'


Do you call it that ? I shall always

think of it by that name now -, and no one
is allowed to use it but you ?'

The boys do sometimes,' she said absently
; ' but no one else. The villagers
are afraid of the woods, for they get lost in
them, and only a pair of sweethearts wander
in now and then by chance.'

Do no strangers ever trespass here ?' he
said, talking for the mere sake of prolonging
those precious moments that would so soon
be over.

You are the first stranger who has come
to Lovel for many years,' she said, looking
at him wistfully ; ' Martha knew you for
one directly — she has lived in the parish
forty years, and knows the face of every
man, woman, and child in it by heart.'

Yet I have been in Lovel more than
once within the last forty years,' he said
absently, and as one whom a thought laid

just struck that he must puzzle out
later.

But the most curious thing of all is,'
went on the girl, ' that Job should have
mistaken you for Frank ; for I know now
that he did . it is written on his face
. . and I bless you for the kind thought
of him that brought you here just in time,
and made him die so happy.'

Yes, he mistook me,' said the stranger ;
and do you bless me, too ?' he said gently,
and with such yearning tenderness as moved
her heart to pity for him ; ' then, if so, and
since once your mother blessed me, I can
never be truly wretched. And keep your
old beautiful belief in Frank — perhaps he
deserved it — and your mother loved him,
and your father loved him too. once : and
it is something to be shrine so beautifully
in a vouni>' skirl's heart.'

Now you are speaking like yourself,'
she said joyously ; for to the core of her
heart she was human, and loved all things,
hating to find speck or stain in any ; ' like
Lancelot, who was proud, you may be sure,
of his brother knights.'

And Frank is Lancelot V he said.

No, you are Lancelot,' she said, looking
at him with those clear boy's eyes that
sometimes shine out of a young girl's
face ; ' I shall always think of you by that
name

So you will think of me sometimes,
child "?' he said, a gleam of sunshine crossing
his sad face. ' You will spare a thought
or two from your hero to give to me ?'

Yes,' she said earnestly ; ' and, somehow,
you have brought him nearer to me —
I know now how soldiers look and speak ;
I have got a better, more sober idea about

VOL. II. 22

him now. He will always seem to me
'' the heart of a lost angel in the earth ;"
but I think that to be a hero one need
not be young and beautiful . . . and I
have often thought,' she went on, colouring
a little as one who fears to preach,
how much less easy we find it to see
saints in the human beings around us, than
to dress up some scarcely seen, unknown
creature in heroic guise, and, placing it ina
niche, fall down and worship it ! We
cry out in wonder at the blindness of the
men and women of old who stoned their
saints and heroes, knowing them not, and
every day are noble deeds done, noble
lives drop, or are slain in the struggle,
and we bury them as common clay, carve
no headstone above them ; and the noblest
heroes, the purest saints, are those who in
their lifetime toiled unnoticed, unrecognised.

among their very nearest and clearest, perhaps
faintly pitied by them, as well as loved.'

'And do you have such beautiful thoughts
as these ?' said the stranger, who knew — ah,
God !— the mockery of this pity that we
take thankfully from lesser souls ; ' are
these the things that go on in a young
girl's mind ? And your mother had such
thoughts — even to her dying day.'

Did you know my mother very well ?'
said Madcap, whose colour had waxed
brilliant long before her ' sermon ' was
over, and who felt herself quite undeserving
of his words. '

Very well,' he said slowly. ' She was
not always here, you know; she was brought
up by Lady Betty Tremayne. Is Lady
Betty living still ?'

Yes ; but father never forgave her for
being unkind to my mother.'

22—2

A look of anger crossed the stranger's
face. Had no one else been unkind to
that beloved little Madcap, whose living
image stood before him ?

The girl saw the shade on his brow ; it
was curious how quickly she had learned
his features, and got an insight into his
thoughts ; and she exclaimed :

Why do you so dislike my father %
Was it because you loved Frank so much
for you did love him '?'

Yes,' he said, looking relieved at the
turn her questions had taken : 'he and I
were friends during the short time we were
together, and I thought your father was
not just to Lord Lovel.'

Yet he was three years looking for his
old friend,' said Madcap sadly, ' and only
came up with him too late ; and why should
he have taken all that trouble to find him,
if he had not loved him ?'

Ay, the stranger knew something of this
history of those three years in which Frank
Lovel had been literally hunted by Mr,
Eyre half round the world and back again,
escaping him only by a hair's-breadth in
the trenches before Sevastopol.

Often the two men, the pursuer and the
pursued, had been in the very same town
together, so hotly had Mr. Eyre followed
on Frank's tracks. No murderer fleeing
for his life had been more cunning, no
detective more acute, than the two men,
who had been dearest friends such a short
time ago.

So you will not answer me,' said Madcap
proudly, after a long pause ; ' but do you
think you will be any the happier for implanting
in my heart the first doubt I have
ever had of my dear father V

Have I done so V he said, turning

swift, and seeming to see in her face
the beginning of one of those long, long
shadows that had missed her mother's lips,
but stilled her heart ; ' then God forgive
me, and take the doubt away. Frank
Lovel loved him, so did your mother, so
do you ; the man who can command such
love as that, should be, must be, above
other men.'

And if you have had bitter thoughts
of him, you renounce them now ?' she said
earnestly ; ' you will forgive him '?'

He never wronged me,' said Frank ;
for myself I have nothing to forgive — it
was for others . . . but they are dead, and
all is over and done with now.'

Madcap sighed, only half satisfied, then
sho-hed ao;ain, as she held out her hand to
wish him ' good-bye.'

But he did not, could not take it ; the

last moment was even more unendurable
in its bitterness than he had expected, and
the strong man's heart seemed to standstill
as he looked at her.

The soft gloom of the wood, the glory
of light in the meadow beyond, the hundred
scents that came to their senses, crowned
by the fragrance of the field of blossoming
beans afar off, the woodland lights and
shadows that left nothing still, but kept
all in motion, matching the ever-changing
freshness of the sea, the very song of a
bird above them, seemed to enter neither
into the soul, eye, nor ear of the man and
child who stood in their midst, yet unconsciously
sank into their hearts, so that the
man never forgot the smallest detail of the
scene ; and years after, as she stood in
winter on the same spot, bit by bit Madcap
remembered it.

Good-bye,' she said again ; and then he
took the little outstretched hand. ' Perhaps
you will come back some day ; and we shall
be glad to see you, father and I.'

1 shall never come back,' he said, his
eyes hard and strained as he looked at her.
I have seen you for the first, last time . . .
and though you have been kind to me, do
not irish that I should ever come back ; it
would not be for your happiness, or that
of those you love. I shall never go through
the cowslip-gate — would to God that I
might !' he added, with a passion in his
voice before which the girl trembled.

But when father comes home, you may.'
she said, feeling lifted into a new world as
she gazed at him ; ' if you have quarrelled,
he would forgive you, as you have forgiven
him.'

'No,' said the stranger, almost sternly.

I shall never cross it while your father
lives. . . And now good-bye, little Madcap
— little friend !' and he kissed her hand
reverently, as though she had been a young
saint, before he gently laid it down.

Good-bye,' she said, not knowing that
tears were in her eyes, and so passed
through the cowslip-gate. . . . Half-way
through the meadow she turned, and,
shading her brow, saw that he was still
there, and made a little gesture to him
as of farewell . . . but as she turned homewards,
knew not that if his youth, his
hopes of joy, lay for ever divided from
him by the impassable barrier of the
cowslip-gate, even for her the ivory gates
had for ever closed on the unruffled, happy
days of her childhood.

%4c

Chapter VI.

'And so farre from making herself beautiful by art,
that one looke of hers is able to it all face j^hysicke ovt
of countenances

x\N/ said Madcap, next morning,
will you go to the cowslip-gate,
and look inside it ? You
will find a meat pasty, if the birds have
not eaten it, and some other things that
I forgot yesterday.'

Can't Saunders go, Miss Madcap ?' said
the woman, hardly looking up from her
long seam. ' I've got a sight of needlework
to do between this and dinner.'

Yes, there you sit, sewing, sewing, sewing,
till I wonder you don't turn into a
real machine. And I should like to know
what it is you are always stitching at,
without ever a breath of fresh air, except
on Sunday, when you go to church. If
they were shirts or nightcaps for Geordie,
I could understand your perpetual stitch,
stitch ; for you know, Nan' (she shook her
head gravely), ' you've got only one idol,
and that's Geordie ; but as they look like
things for me, why, do you expect me to
live to be a Mrs. Methuselah V

Young ladies get married sometimes,'
said Nan, as she threaded her needle, then
looked round apprehensively, as if Mr. Eyre
might be in two places at once, ' and it's
as well to be beforehand. I've kept you
speckless from three years old, and not a
soul but me shall do a stitch of plain linen

for you as long as you're Miss Madcap.'


And pray when am I going to be Mrs. T
said Madcap, who sat cross-legged on the
nursery floor, and thought that talking to
even Nan was better than talking to herself.


When you get married, Miss Madcap,
to be sure.'

And who am I going to marry ^' said
the girl, in so matter-of-fact a tone that the
woman started.

Well, there,' said Nan, looking at her
young mistress with strong disfavour, ' it's
early days to talk of that yet, but if you
don't know, I can't tell you. To be sure,
there's not much choice, but sometimes
the finest peach is set a-top of the basket,
and them's wise that take it, and don't go
farther.'

I never saw any man in the least like
a peach,' said Madcap dubiously; 'though,
to be sure, I've met very few in my life
for I suppose Gordon is a young man now.'

'And hasn't lie got a skin like a peach ?'
said Nan indignantly.

More shame for him,' said Madcap
; ' peach cheeks are for women, not
men.'

Well !' said Nan, laying down her seam
in the effort to gulp down her wrath ; ' and
you always talking about the last Lord
Lovel, miss, who was as fair as his mother,
folks say.'

He would be dark enough now if he
had lived,' said Madcap, delighted at Nan's
anger ; ' the idea only occurred to me quite,
quite lately, that perhaps when Gordon is
older, much older, he will be better look-better

looking !' said Nan, to whom this
jest was deadly earnest, ' when you couldn't
find his match in the whole county ! Why,
saving your presence, Miss Madcap, Master
Doune ain't a patch on him for beauty or
sweet temper, or anything else that a young
lady might look for in a husband ; and
because he never put himself forward, but
bears with everybody's ways, he's just overlooked,
as saints mostly is when they come
lodging with ordinary folk.'

Madcap started : here were her own
words of yesterday reproduced in the
nurse's homely talk ; but it was not of
Gordon she was thinking, as she looked
at Nan, who was crying now, and with
unusual signs of excitement upon her
usually stolid, comely face.

Always overlooked,' she said, ' from the
time Master Doune began his studies till

master took to educating you, Miss Madcap
; but never complaining, always the
same, and worshipping your very shoe-string.
But there, it always was the lot
of the Lovels to be lorded over and wronged
by the Eyres.'

Wronged ?' said Madcap, standing up,
and a little pale ; ' what wrong have we
Eyres ever done the Lovels V

The woman shrank into herself, knowing;
that she had transgressed the unwritten law
that ruled the house and village.

I spoke in anger. Miss Madcap,' she
said, rising humbly, ' and I hope you'll
overlook it . . . but I love Master Gordon,
and I can't bear to hear a word against him,
or even against his skin.'

Madcap kissed her old friend, and thought
with a little remorse of Gordon, but presently
went away with the faint doubts of

yesterday strengthened in her mind . . .
the antipathy of Job to her father, as expressed
by Martha and confirmed by a
hundred signs in the old man, now crowded
back on her mind ; then the stranger's conviction
of wrong done to Lord Lovel ;
lastly, Nan's words put a new light on
those past relations that had puzzled her
between her father and the stranger.

She went straight to Mr. Eyre's study,
as though to exorcise those disloyal
thoughts ; and when she came to it, and
saw his chair in the old familiar place, she
kneeled down beside it, with her head upon
the place on which his hand had so often
rested.

Here he had taught her ; here from her
babyhood she had found a sanctuary in all
troubles, and his arm ready to receive her ;
here she had played while he wrote, meeting

all her demands and interruptions with
inexhaustible patience ; here she had first
essayed ' strokes,' and

Scorned all the fetters
Of the four-and-twenty letters ;'

though, having once mastered them, she
applied her knowledge rapidly to the books
that Mr. Eyre varied, according to her
understanding, from year to year. At this
early period of her life he found little
difficulty about her religion — for a young
child is essentially irreligious ; and her
questions embarrassed him, while his replies
provoked dissatisfaction, when they did not
rouse spasms of mirth in her.

For instance, when she stuck one day
over the Tenth Commandment, and asked
why the house was set before the wife, and
he replied in one of those grim asides that

VOL. II. 23

he seldom permitted himself, that he supposed
it was because the man's wife had
married him to please her own taste, while
lie had built his house to please his, she
did not understand him ; but one day she
startled him by asking for something to
make her laugh out of ' that funny
old book ' (meaning the Bible), hugging
herself all up together with anticipated
delight.

After that, he read to her out of it no
more, but left her to herself, knowing that
in time religion would grow out of her life,
not (as is so commonly believed) her life
out of her religion.

Whatever might be beyond his own
understanding he left to hers, and however
grave his own doubts, he never clouded her
mind with any, but gave her mental food
of the right kind, and in all things watched

over the purity of her morals as faithfully
as her mother might have done. No rough
words, no slang of any sort, would he permit
to be spoken before her ; no gossip, no
frivolous talk, no village tattling would he
suffer. The villagers themselves might pour
no diffuse unprofitable talk into her ears ;
they must curb their tongues, or go without
a sight of her — though, to do them
justice, not one would have harmed her by
a thought.

She had never looked at a newspaper in
her life ; even periodicals he eschewed for
her, and allowed no miscellaneous reading.
There were books in his library she was
not permitted to open ; and it was his
habit to make out at intervals a list for
her, and in this list were included but a
very small number of works of imagination.


23—2

The ' Letters ' of Madame de Sevio-ne, of
Gray, Cowper, and Swift ; Arnold's ' Essays
on Criticism and his ' Selections from
Wordsworth ;' the ' Essays ' of Elia, Thackeray's
' Esmond,' and Miss Burney's
'Evening' — these, with ' The Vicar of Wakefield,'
' Our Village,' and Izaak Walton's
Compleat Angler,' nearly contained the
only light literature he had ever allowed
her ; but he made one fatal exception when
he added the ' Idylls of the King ' to her
narrow shelf. Shakespeare was too strong
meat for her yet ; he even hesitated to let
her pore too closely into the Bible (that undying
record of the tragedies of the human
heart) ; but encouraged the reading of
history both in her own and three or four
other languages.

But, though so solidly educated that hers
might almost be said to be a masculine

understanding, accomplishments had been
altogether omitted, save those natural ones
to which a woman should be born, and that
require no teaching. She sang like a larkin
church and in the woods, but rarely sat
down to ' make music ' at the piano ; rode
as well as her father ; understood the
management of the house, and could sew as
beautifully as Nan ; had that fine natural
taste in dress which is born in one, but
never acquired ; and, finally, kept her unusual
knowledge so entirely out of sight
that to ordinary people she appeared buta
tricksy, joyous young maid who had
never left off dancing since she was
born.

And lest she should appear odious
through her very charms, I am bound to
admit that she had been addicted from an
early age to certain reprehensible practices,

such as jumping hurdles and five-barred
gates, racing the boys on her pony barebacked
round the estate, being a proficient
in the art of ' cold-pig,' able to make the
best tofi*ee out of stolen materials, and to
stamp her foot and lose her temper at a
moment's notice.

Mr. Eyre abhorred vanity of any sort,
and years ago had said to her : ' If your
glass tells you that you are handsome,
the only thing you can do is to forget it.'

He had also a horror of a woman who
was smart first and truthful afterwards, and
hated her to be a great talker, for, said
he, ' Her charms speak better for her
than any words ;' and again, ' A woman's
character is invariably revealed by her
manner of judging others — especially her
own sex.'

He would not allow her to be one of that

noble army of incapables, whose lives are
the completest conjugation of the imperative
mood that Lindsey Murray ever
dreamed of. Bells might be in order, and
servants' legs in order too ; but if she
wanted a thing she must fetch it herself,
not be for ever ringing.

Against vacillation, too, he warned her :
If you are in doubt as to the propriety of
pursuing some especial course, waste no
time, but decide at once not to pursue it ;
the mere fact that you have doubts about it
proves its inexpediency. Some women (invariably
fools) always decide in the affirmative.'


Again he would say, ' Every woman
ought to have some engrossing duty entirely
outside her affections ; for if few women
have sufficient force of character to deliberately
make choice of evil, thousands

drift into it because they have nothing to
fall back upon ;' and he took care that his
daughter, at least, should not be without
that safeguard.

And now, he who had trained her so
purely and thoroughly, who had reared her
through a delicate childhood to a strong
and vigorous youth — this dear old dad,
she thought, as she knelt by his chair,
was to be doubted by her ; and he absent,
not able to say a word in his own
defence.

Presently she got up, dried her eyes, and
took down one of the books he had left for
her reading ; but for the first time that
habit of steady application on which Mr.
Eyre had based her whole education, failed
her, and she stood for a while with the
lines clear under her eyes, but devoid of
meaning.

As she replaced the book, the title of the
one next to it fixed her attention.

It was an ' Army Guide ' for the year in
which Lord Lovel had died ; and, trembling
a little, as one guilty of disobedience, she
took it in her hand.

It opened easily at a particular page,
and saved her the trouble of search, for
Frank Lovel's regiment was marked with
red ink ; and though his name did not
appear, a cross was placed against a name
half-way down the list ; the name was
'Methuen.'

The name brought some light to her
mind, for more than once Mr. Eyre had
spoken to her of that curious letter received
from the soldier's mother ; but he had
spoken of her as unknown, and yesterday
the stranger implied a personal knowledge
of him, so that there was only perplexity in

Madcap's thoughts as she put the book
back, and moved restlessly to that second
window of the room which looked on the
wistaria wall, beneath which had been her
mother's favourite seat.

Here she had sat at her needlework or
book, while Mr. Eyre, happy since she
was within sight, sat at his table, looking
out now and then to that sunny corner
which held all that made his life worth the
living.

Now his table was set so that his back
was turned to that deserted spot ; but some
deeper glimpse into the inner sadness of his
life came to his daughter as she looked out,
and thought how in this room he must forever
be almost (oh, the bitterness of the
word !) within touch and call of

The vanished hand,
And the sound of a voice that is still.'

The girl moved away. What was this
trouble in her mind, this unrest and vague
foreboding — she, to whom nerves were as
much unknown as those fits of depression
that often terrified her in Doune ?

It was because she was lonely, out of
sorts — anything but the true cause, the
casting of the first stone at the idol she
had set up in her heart and worshipped ;
while, besides, there might be a wistful
thought of the stranger she had met yesterday,
and whom she was never likely to see
again.

As she wandered listlessly to and fro, her

Aimless thoughts,
Like a babe's hand, without intent
Drawn down a seven-stringed instrument,'

she came to the lofty screen that concealed
the private stair by which ]mr. Eyre, each

night and morning, rose to and descended
from his bed-chamber.

She had not been in that room since she
was a child ; an impulse of love to him
made her visit it now, and she was just
turning the corner of the screen when a
voice from the distant doorway startled her,
and she turned to see Saunders hurrying
forward with anxious haste.

Cook's waiting for orders,' he said ; *' and
there's a sight of poor folk wanting you in
the village. Whatever keeps you indoors
such a lovely day as this, Miss Madcap V
he added, a little fretfully, knowing well
enough the dangers to which Mr. Eyre's
sudden exit had exposed his adored little
mistress.

Cook can wait,' she said, ' so can the
village folk ;' and she disappeared behind
the screen.

The old man stood for a moment without
stirring;, then shook his head as one who
sees bitter trouble ahead.

Bit by bit she'll find it all out,' he said
to himself ; ' and it'll break her heart. And
it's nightgown sinful of master to leave her,
and all for some fad about the murder, or
I'm a Dutchman, when it's clear as a pikestaff
that Digges done it, with that Jezebel
to egg him on. But I'll just send Nan.'
And he hobbled off to find Madcap's guardian.


Nan checked a scream as, on hurrying
to the room, followed by Saunders, she saw
Madcap sitting in the armchair, lying back
with closed eyes.

The very image of how her mother
looked when she was found,' said Saunders,
in an incautiously loud whisper, from the
doorway.

Who was found ?' she said, opening her
eyes only to see the man vanish, then looked
at Nan.

The chair is so comfortable,' she said,
and I couldn't sleep last night. But I was
not dozing off when you came in ; I was
thinking about mother — and father — and
how he must miss her.'

Yes, miss,' said Nan, who knew every
detail of a certain night's work by heart,
and could not bear to see the girl sitting
there ; * but such thoughts ain't for a bright
day like this ; and if you'll come with me
for I'm vastly afeard of them woods —
we'll fetch the things you took out to the
beggar man — leastways, if there's any left.'

No,' said Madcap, jumping up ; ' I won't
go to the cowslip-gate to-day. If you are
frightened, take Saunders ; I'm going to my
poor people.'

Anywhere out of livres thought Nan, as
she followed the girl, and brought her hat
and gloves — last of all her basket, into
which Madcap looked with a sudden
thought ; then turned it upside down, but
nothing fell out.

*And I picked such a lot,' she said absently.
' They could not all have tumbled
out. Has anybody touched it since I came
home yesterday ?' she added, turning to
Nan.

'Nobody, miss,' said Nan, who was a
little offended at the rejection of the tremendous
sacrifice her offer had implied ;
you brought it in on your arm just as
it is now ; you mostly brings it back
empty.'

But it was not empty when she started,
ten minutes later, for the village, in which
tongues were wagging and heads nodding

to an extent unprecedented within these
twelve years.

Les absents out toujours tort,' and Mr.
Eyre was to be no exception to the rule.
He had been gone barely a week, yet already
whispers of his errand were abroad ; and
now that the grasp of the stern hand which
had held all his world in check was relaxed,
he suffered the usual fate at the
hands of those whose service rested less on
love than fear.

Some of the gossipers saw her coming
down the hill ; saw how half-way she
turned back to look at the grey old house
that had cradled her so happily, and in
which she had never known an hour of
sorrow. To her its every aspect was beautiful,
and the lurid flames that seemed to
rise behind it as the sun set, brought no
fear to her mind ; though often strangers

passing through the village would pause
and attract attention to the seemingly
burning house.

Madcap could not have told the precise
point when the first faint doubt, dread as
death, of her father, became confirmed by
this visit to the village. All welcomed her
eagerly, as usual (worshipping the two
Madcaps in one), took her generous dole
with loving thanks, told her of their joys
or woes ; but one thing struck her curiously,
and it was this, that no one either mentioned
or inquired for her father. Yet
never before had lip-service failed him ;
perhaps the thought that his shadow might
cross the threshold immediately after his
daughter's prompted those respectful inquiries
for him that she had accepted as
willing tribute to his goodness.

VOL. II. 24

This silence effected what mere gossip or
innuendo could not have done ; and the
crowning sadness was laid upon her heavy
heart in Synge Lane, where she paused to
leave one of those little gifts that hither
from time to time she brought.

The woman who had received Mr. Eyre
so curtly, smiled a welcome to Madcap, and
ran out to meet her, though not for the
sake of her gift, but for herself.

So your father has gone away, miss ?'
she said, as the girl was presently departing ;
and has he gone to foreign parts ?'

Madcap glanced at the woman, and found
something unusual in her : a furtive question,
anxiety, and dread, looked out of her
eyes, while the rest of the features were
sternly controlled, and gave no sign.

That is Mr. Eyre's business,' said Madcap,

in the first unreasonable fit of anger
she had ever known ; and walked out of
the house, leaving the mistress of it confounded.


24—2

Not a flower
But shows some touch, in freckle, streak, or stain,
Of His unrivalled pencil . . .'

COWPER.

Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.'

Wordsworth.

There lives and works

A soul in all things, and that soul is God.'

CowPER.

The spirit of the worm beneath the sod

In love and worship blends itself with God.'

Shelley.

ADCAP felt like the Queen of
Sheba, as she sat on the top of a
new-mown haycock, pitched on
the exact spot that her mother had filled

sixteen years ago, and surveyed her kingdom
through eyes that had been curiously
strengthened during the past three weeks.
For hours she had watched the summer
seas of grass sink gently to the mowers'
scythes, caught a thousand faint vernal
scents as they were scattered, but had
grown weary at last of that flavour of
melilot and clover which out-scented all the
rest.

And then she shook her head, thinking
how lonely that gorgeous queen must have
been ; for who ever heard of her husband %
or, if a maiden, what did she gadding abroad
with gifts to the old king, who surely had
wives enough already ?

Yes, that had been the keystone to
Madcap's comparison of the errant queen
to herself, that she must have been intensely
londij at odd moments in the midst

of all her splendour, and perhaps palled
of her diamonds and rubies, as this girl
was beginning to do of those simple pleasures
that had once so entirely satisfied
her.

She had enjoyed an uninterrupted month
of her own company, and was as sick of it
as if it had been the worst in the world ;
was tired even of her books, and each day
and hour felt more keenly that hankering
after congenial society which is the strongest
natural impulse implanted in the human
breast.

Oh for a good rousing bolstering-match
with the boys,' she thought (such events
being by no means uncommon, even since
her lengthened frocks), or a game at snowballs,
in which she was a match for the pair
anything but this dull, dead calm, broken
only by the Oxford letters, that held love

enough, to be sure, but little enough food
for thought.

Mathematics and cricket — cricket and
mathematics. Madcap was interested in
neither ; but if both boys could have rushed
in to-day, and she could have put an arm
round each neck, she could have listened to
them for ever on their several pursuits,
being so desperately hungry for the sound
of human voices.

She started up and left her haycock,
moving towards the villagers, who
paused in their tossing as she drew near,
and welcomed her eagerly when she asked
for a pick and took a turn at labour among
them. But more than one head was shaken
as presently she moved away.

She's over young to be left the Squire,'
said one of the women, looking after her ;
and all the frolic's gone out of her feet

since master went. She'll aye find it main
lonesome up at t' Red Hall.'

'There's trouble upon her said another
woman, sighing. ' Hes busted out again,
and means mischief. And 'tis ill work
rousing sleeping dogs. He'd have done
better to bide at home.'

Seems like yesterday the other young
missus were sitting there,' and the speaker
pointed to the distant haycock, ' and master
fired over her head at Hester, who'd ventured
to peep over t' hedge ; and says he to
his wife, with his arms round her, " After
all, 'tis only a — a rook !" Just 60, as if he
hadn't missed murder. What a man —
what a man ! Ay, if he never came back it
mio-ht be best, in the end, for she,'

Oh, she'll be happy enough when the
young lord takes her home,' said a third
and younger voice ; ' she's naught to be

pitied, with so many as there be to love her.
It's just her mother over again ; not a soul
to be looked at, so long as the young missus
is nigh ;' and the young wench tossed her
handsome head almost as high as she tossed
her hay.

Meanwhile Madcap pursued her way to
the meadow she had not once crossed (since
there was no Job beyond) during the past
month ; and, since last she came, the hay in
it had been carried, leaving but close-cropped
stubble, that smelled to her healthily
sweet after the overpowering fragrance of
the ' Ten Acre.'

Half-way across it, she looked towards
the cowslip-gate. Surely some one was
standing there ; some one upon whom she
had mused and thought much during the
past weeks, and whom she would rejoice to
see again ?

She ran forward quickly, but the sun
must have deceived her, for when she
reached the gate not a soul was within
sight ; and as she stepped into the shadow of
the wood, its coolness seemed to touch her
heart, and she shivered.

Will he never come back ?' she said
aloud ; * not even to look once at Job's
grave ?'

As she stood, the nearest tree seemed to
move, and a man advanced to her side.

Madcap — little friend !' said a well-remembered
voice ; and, in a moment, her
hand flew to his, and she cried out :

So you have come back ! — and I am so
glad, so veris glad, to see you ! I have
recollected a hundred questions that I
forgot to ask you about Frank !'

He let her hand go, a shade of trouble
or disappointment flitting across the new

brightness of his face, then said,, a little
wearily :

Yes ; we will talk about him presently.
But first, will you not show me some
portion of these woods that you know by
heart ?'

Yes ; I will show you,' she said joyously,
and still a little bewildered by her own
satisfaction at seeing him, so that she forgot
his last words to her when they had parted
at the cowslip-gate, and how this was no
friend of her father's that she welcomed so
eagerly.

I could not show you one tithe of them
in a week,' she said, as, walking on air, she
moved beside him ; ' but I will take you
first to a haunt of my own, not too far from
the cowslip gate for me to run to, for even
ten minutes at a time, nor so near that anyone
can find mc if I have a mind to hide ;'

and she walked on tip-toe, and put one
finger up, as she brought him soon into a
little lovely hollow, where the sylvan flowers
lingered longest, and whence innumerable
glades, mingling with the broken woodland,
made new vistas of eternal beauty,
while a natural throne of velvet at the foot
of a giant beech commanded all.

Madcap sprang lightly to her well-loved
seat, laid one hand on the great moss-covered
roots that stretched high above the
sward, for a moment leaned her shoulder to
the moss-grown bole at her back, then would
have stepped down into the hollow where
the stranger stood, but that he came to
meet her, begging her to stay.

Let us rest here,' he said eagerly. ' I
have travelled far to-day, and am very tired.'

She looked down at him, hesitating, her
hand half fluttering out to meet his lifted

one . no one had ever rested in that
green chair but she, save, perchance, some
flitting moonlight thing, or, by day, some
saucy squirrel . . . but a longer look at
him made her sure that he was tired, and
miserable too ; so that all at once her hand
found his, and in a moment they were
sitting side by side.

They might have been King and Queen
as seen from the end of one of those long;
vistas beyond ; a thousand eyes might, unsuspected,
have watched them, a thousand
ears have hearkened to their talk ; but, you
see, Madcap was used to sitting there alone,
and she loved the many loopholes of her
outlook, that enabled her to steal away
silently at the slightest sign or sound of
pursuit. The green chair was big ; it might
have held four Madcaps, though scarce!}'-
two Colonel Busby.

Hark !' she said, holding up her finger ;
do you hear that — like the whetting of a
saw ? And it is only the titmouse, and the
little impostor has only those two notes
with which to frighten one !'

So you cannot bear to see a tree fall ?
Neither could your mother,' he said, looking
earnestly at the sylvan landscape. ' Often
would she

"Head me a lecture of her country art."

Will you not read, me one, too V

What can I tell you V she said, looking
dreamily out ; ' have you not seen it all
before — anything that I could tell you —
but with young eyes ? only I wish you
could see these woods in spring, when you
have to pick your steps so that you may
not crush a flower.'

And yet,' he said, ' you step so lightly ;
like Ellen, my favourite heroine —

" E'en the light harebell raised its head
Elastic from her airy tread." '

Oh no !' she said ; ' that is a poetic
conceit ; and, besides, she would have
stopped to pick some . . . but when I
have filled my lap, somehow I feel as if
I had been taking lives, they grow so tall,
and straight, and happy, and open their
eyes much as we do ; and they are set
just where is best for them, and last so
many happy days in shine and shade —
it seems a selfish whim to put them in
water for a day or two, then throw them
away for new favourites.'

So she is faithful,' thought the stranger ;
and so was her mother — with one exception.'


'Boys don't understand these things as
girls do,' she said, sighing. ' Doune is
always in the classics, and Gordon doesn't

know a bluebell from a hyacinth, and loves
his boating and cricket ; he would bowl
just as hard over cowslips' heads as over
a shaved meadow ; and I can almost fancy
him settling down as you said Frank would,
and getting a little bald and stout. Poor
Geordie 1'

But her heart reproached her as she said
the words ; and she looked up quickly at
the s transfer.

'Don't think that I am blaming him,'
she said ; ' I love him dearly. It is because
he is so good that we have all overlooked
him. But I'll try and be better to him before
he comes home to settle down for good !'

When will that be V said the stranger.

'Oh, a good long while yet,' she said
gravely. ' He wants to come home, but
I said he must stay longer at Oxford, to
take care of Doune.'

Does Dome want especial taking care
of?'

He is a genius,' said Madcap proudly,
but with a happy smile on her lips, ' and,
of course, he has no common sense ; but
Gordon has plenty. So while 1 am not
taking care of Doune, Gordon must.'

Poor Gordon, indeed !' said the stranger
under his breath ; ' the Lovel fate over
again.'

Did you speak ?' she said, looking at
him as if to seek a reason for the unaccountable
delight his grave companionship
gave her.

I am waiting for that lecture,' he said,
with the ' blink ' of sunshine that she remembered
crossing his lips and eyes.

How long shall it be ?' she said, falling
into his humour, and wishing that her talk
might soothe him to peace, for there were

VOL. 11. 25

deeper lines of suffering on his face to-day
than there had been a month ago.

Half an hour — an hour,' he said ; ' for
I am not likely ever to sit here by your
side again. I was in Lovel to-day on Job's
business, little friend ; but I could not keep
away from the cowslip-gate, and, by good
luck, you came.'

Oh, you will come back again some
day,' she said gently, ' and you will go
through it ;' then shrank a little, like
one who unwittingly touches fire, as he
looked away from her, his face suddenly
grown stern, but yet more weary than
before.

Madcap had only a child's heart, strong
and true (though she looked a woman),
and she was used to Doune's dark hours,
and longed to solace this one ; but before
she could summon up courage to speak,

he had turned to her, and for the third time
demanded his ' lecture.'

'To begin with, then said Madcap, on
that instant, ' both you and I are sitting in
the embrace of a court beauty, who wears
a velvet suit, slippers herself yet more delicately
in moss, while her waistcoat is always
of silver, even when in autumn her skirts
glow in pure russet-gold. The Lady Chestnut
may get the better of her in the matter
of bloom, but her outlines are clumsy and
over-rude beside this delicate beauty ; and
even the oaks cannot hold their own before
her . . . the stock-doves are all her lovers ;
you will see them follow even a distant
rustle of her petticoats for a mile through
the woods . . . they follow no other so, for
birds have finer taste than human beings —
though they are their echoes, and caricature
all their absurdities. Have you ever watched

them ?' she went on quickly, content to talk,
so long as she could charm the sadness from
his face.

I have listened to them he said ; ' but
somehow I have never thought of iDirds
except as singing or hungry '

But his voice sounded ghostly in his own
ears ; and was he not indeed a ghost, and
had he not come back from the dead to
hold living converse with one whose image
had slept these twelve years beneath the
tomb ?

'There is a life between the two,' she
said, looking down her beloved glades, and
speaking softly to herself ; ' there is marrying,
building, rearing the young family.
. . Have you ever seen a house-martin
feed her young ?' she added, a smile breaking
her thoughts as she looked at him.
First by some miracle she sets them all

in a row on the top bar of some secluded
gate. Then she forages, and skims back
to feed each little one flying, and it is
miraculous how cleverly and neatly the
business is done on both sides — a pattern
to our village mothers if only they would
take heed of it ! But nearly all the birds
are good parents ; owls come back once in
five minutes to look at their young, wrens
once in two, swallows every second or third
minute, and some of the others even oftener
than that.'

The stranger looked at Madcap keenly.
Yes, here was the true mother's instinct
beating in her young breast, the one crowning,
womanly charm without which a woman
is less flower than weed.

But they are not all good,' she added
gravely ; ' a raven deserts her young as soon
as hatched, and none have ever been able

to find out how they are fed— by dew ? or
worms bred in the nest ? And some — oh,
but some of them have tempers ! The
whitethroat will pop his head up over the
hedge, and make faces at you if he thinks
you are near his nest, flirt his tail, and be
positively insulting in his manner ; and
nightingales, if you happen to meet them
when taking their young out for a first
walk, will pursue you along the hedge as
you walk, snapping defiantly in your ears,
and telling you as plainly as possible to get
home . . . and there are rogues — the hen
harriers, who beat the fields of corn regularly
like pointers or setter dogs . . . the
ravens, who spend all their spare time
in cuffing; each other on the wins,
frowned on by the solemn crows, who fly
in pairs all the year round, and look upon
Valentine's Day as a frivolous business.

Oh, there is something to laugh at or
admire in every one just as in the people
that they mimic !'

Have you found one who apes me V
said the stranger, long ago roused out of
his thoughts, and turning sideways in his
moss-grown elbow-chair to look at her.

Perhaps,' she said, a little sadly, ' as
I have found one for Doune — the gold-crested
wren, who will not mingle with
crowds, but holds aloof in fields and woods,
and starves because he can suffer, but cannot
brook pity . . . then there is the crow,'
she said, in a brighter tone, ' who swaggers
in his walk, and is Colonel Busby's double ;
and the daw is Mrs. Busby, with only half
his strut (he would never permit more) ;
and the magpies and jays, who beat the
air with their wings, yet make no despatch,
are like '

Me V he said ; ' for I have practically
stood still these fourteen years '

Foolish persons with weak wills,' said
the young lecturer, frowning ; for by now
she had got into the swing of her own voice,
and sincerely loved its sound.

And a blue titmouse,' she continued,
perched on the head of a sunflower, devouring
its seeds, is like one of those frivolous
young maids who marry only to devour
their husbands' substance ; while a greenfinch
who goes a-wooing puts on all the
languishing die-away airs and gestures of a
village beauty, who sighs in vain for some
rustic Jock. And the swifts, who dash
round in circles, are the ne'er-do-weels who
never advance ; the larks and wagtails, who
walk so daintily, moving one foot before
another as we do ourselves, are the bright,
brisk house-mothers, whose cottages are all

in order, and who are smart even for
their husbands

Is that so very uncommon T said the
lecturer's only pupil.

Very ! Then a rook, when he goes a-
courting, will try and sing, but only makes
a harsh and horrible noise that splits your
ears ; and a crow will make himself ridiculous
in the same way, and they always make
me think of '

Middle-aged men wooing young maids ?'

To be sure !' said Madcap, ' as sometimes
happens in our village ; but father always
interferes, and puts a stop to any of those
unequal matches. And the peacock is the
fine lady whose worth is all upon her back,
so that none was left over for her voice or disposition.
. I have seen just such a lady !
Then the skylark always shows to me like
some gallant pure soul hampered by a weak

body, for, soar as he may, and does perpetually,
he sinks more swiftly than he can
rise ; and the meteor-like flash of the goatsucker
is like the flight of a beautiful
thought, and the lightning flash of the
kingfisher like an inspiration that comes
into a human soul, it knows not whence !
And a starling should belong to the sea, for
he swims in the air — but there are so many,'
she added, stopping short in her lecture, ' I
should bore you to death if I told you one-half
of them !'

So we all have our doppel-gangers
among the birds,' he said. ' Well, I have
found one for you ; you are a swallow, for
your walk is like the flight of one, but your
voice is like the blackcap's, and I am
beginning to suspect you of possessing the
owl's wisdom '

" Silly swallow, prating thing," ' quoted

Madcap, laughing ; 'yes, that suits me very
well. But I do not like the owl ; he is my
only enemy in all the wood. He can scream,,
snore, scold, and hiss like a thousand snakes,
all in less than a minute ; but I love the
deep and solemn note he sometimes uses,
and that makes the forest re-echo for
miles !'

But surely you never come here at
night alone ?' he said, thoroughly startled.

Oh yes, often,' she said ; ' if I cannot
sleep, or anything has vexed me. And by
moonlight it is far more exquisite than by
day . . . have you ever studied the moonlight
flowers ?' she went on, looking at him
wistfully ; ' for they are all so pale, so weird,
as if the moon had looked into all their
pretty faces one by one, and made them
cold and still like herself . . . their ver'
scent is faint and ghostly, as in a dream.

And sometimes I find a rabbit sitting up on
my chair and washing his face ; sometimes,
as I sit quite still, one or other of the
night animals run across my knee, and I
get all sorts of queer peeps into the creatures'
habits ; for it is in the night only that
the forest animals live.'

It is not right for a young thing like
you to be wandering here alone at night,'
said the stranger, frowning. ' Did he leave
no one to take care of you V he added,
thinking that Mr. Eyre's confidence in her
read very like neglect.

To be sure,' she said, laughing ; ' there
is Nan — but she is terrified of these woods
even by day, and no earthly powers would
draw her here after nightfall !'

And you say no one at home knows of
this haunt of yours,' he went on, in a dissatisfied
tone. ' Supposing you fell ill here

or were robbed and murdered by some
stranger or footpad "?'

I wear no ornaments she said ; ' and
strangers and footpads do not know the
way.'

Am not I a stranger ?' he said, looking at
her keenly ; ' and would you have treated
anybody as kindly as you treated me V

Madcap turned her head aside to hide a
smile.

Here was that jealousy which seemed to
afflict all her male belongings, extending
even to chance acquaintances ; but she was
grave again as she said :

You were mother's friend, and Job's —
and Frank's ; and you will tell me all about
yourself, some day — for I must be going
back to my hay now.'

Yes,' he said, looking at her eagerly,
yearningly, as a man may at something he

knows to lee forbidden to him, but that soon
will have passed beyond the reach of his
power to behold it ; yet the present was his
he would beat out his little span of joy to
its utmost limit. . . . had he by hard longing
(for surely intense wishing had brought
her) summoned her footsteps to the cowslip-gate,
only to let her go so quickly ?

Let us make a bargain,' he said ; ' give
me another lecture — just a little one — and
I'll tell you all about Frank — and myself.
The hay will do well enough without you.
Tell me something of the daylight life of
these woods, and how you spend your hours
in them.'

How can I tell you V said the girl.
Men don't understand these things — even
father does not ; and you would think I was
idling away my time when I am learning
something new at every step. Anyone

could learn the avenues in a clay, but half a
dozen miles of broken woodland are another
matter, and there are such beautiful things
outside the wood — in our own grounds, in
the meadows, everywhere.'

Tell me of some of them he pleaded,
happy only so long as her young voice ran
on. ' I am going to settle down in the
country myself before very long, and I
expected to be dull ; but your knowledge
will help me.'

"What can I tell you,' she said, ' if you
have not lived among such things ? If you
have never been caught in a thicket of
blossomed thorn ; never followed the plough
and smelled the sweet, fresh earth ; never
watched a daisy hang all its petals downwards
at sunset, or a poppy fold its heart
into a red cup at even . . . never marked
the little snowy half closed umbrellas made

by the wind-flowers, or seen the light
glistening at sunset on a field of spiders'
webs, aerial bridges tossed from blade to
blade of grass, and stronger than any made
by human hands, since the heaviest footfall
will not break them — have you seen any of
these ?'

No,' he said, as she paused, and he saw
that she had forgotten him in her thoughts ;
I have seen none of these things ; but I
will look for them all some day.'

There is always some new delight,' she
went on softly, as if to herself; 'some
lovely accident, as ve think, but set thereto
help us to

" Live more nearly as we pray."
One day it may be a sunset to startle one
into a real understanding of heaven . . .
another it will be a sheet of emerald grass
shining through a row of tall poplars just

budding into brown . . . or it will be a
carpet of blue anemones in January, when
no other flower is abroad ; or to see a field
of tares and wheat sway to the breeze,
scarlet in one light, gold in another . . .

or-she

paused, and burst out laughing at
herself.

Oh, what nonsense I am talking !' she said;
as if a soldier could be expected to know or
care anything about such matters ! But it
has been a great relief to me to say it, all
the same,' she added, nodding ; ' and I am
very much obliged to you, indeed, for listening
to me.'

I shall remember it all,' he said ; and
thought how he need not fear for her, since
she had real religion — the religion of a
beautiful fearless life, that beat in entire
harmony with the works of her Creator. .

VOL. II. 26

Have you ever tried to write down your
thoughts ? Your father was a celebrated
thinker in his youth.'

No,' she said slowly ; ' I have never
tried ; and I think I never shall. But if I
had tried to write, do you know how it
would have ended ? I should have gone on
trying all my life ; and when I had become
quite old, I should have called my friends
together, and asked them to hear the fruits
of my labours. And then they would all
cry out, " But it is centuries old !" And I
would say, " Yes ; it is the last chapter of
the Book of Ecclesiastes ; but it has my
soul, my best efforts, in it ; and I have no
better." '

You have chosen a sad form of expression,
child,' he said, struck by the
solemn stillness of her voice and look.

Are ]iot the young sad V she said, ' or

why does one's heart ache in spring, when
older people cannot tell it from early
summer ? I think it must be because our
suffering is before us ; theirs is behind
them.'

Why must you suffer V he said, his
heart sinking as he looked at her ; ' God
forbid that you should '

Why should I not V she said, looking at
him gravely. ' It is the lot of all ; and the
happiest, the best beloved, are always those
who suffer most.'

Where did you learn all this V he said,
hardly knowing whether to be glad or
sorry that the young eyes looking out on
life were so clear.

Perhaps out of my own heart,' she said ;
perhaps out of the village ; perhaps out of
my Book of Ecclesiastes. And that is why
I think my mother's lot needs no grieving

2G— 2

over. She went away in the full tide of
her happiness. It is for ourselves we may
grieve, not her. And you say you knew
her very well she went on gently ; ^ but it
must have been before she married father,
for he did not seem to know your name
when your mother wrote to him.'

Had the afternoon grown suddenly
colder ? The shivering note of a willow-wren
filled up the moment of silence before
he turned to her and said :

So you have known my name all along V

I think you must be Major Methuen
she said, and wondered to see how haggard
he had gone all at once, for during the past
minutes he had seemed to grow younger ;
and I am glad you have come home to your
mother,' she added softly, ' for she said you
were her only son, and she a widow.'

Yes, she is happy now,' he said, as one

whose thoughts were not in his words ; weare
going to settle down together in the
country next month. I was always a bad
correspondent, and she thought '

*That you must be dead,' said Madcap,
sighing ; ' but it was poor Frank who died.'

What on earth is the link between him
and me ?' said the soldier, a Hush of something
that looked like anger rising to his
tanned brow ; ' everywhere I am received for
him, taken for a dull echo of him — a makeshift
that bears some faded resemblance to the
dead hero. I'm positively sick of hearing
myself called Lovel, and being clapped on
the shoulder every time I venture to go to
my club, by some man who vows he used to
know me under another name.'

But Acis there any resemblance between
you ?' said Madcap, sitting erect, and understanding
Job's mistake better.

'There was the likeness that may exist
between two fair men of exactly the same
height and build,' he said carelessly,
'though I never saw it myself. Men
dropped like flies in those days, and looked
less at each other's faces than at the enemy ;
but our supposed resemblance was a matter
of common remark in the regiment. Then
the circumstances of our joining were
almost identical : both had sold out of the
Guards, both had applied for leave of
service in the war at the same time, and
both for the same reason (though they
alone knew it) — a bad heartache of some
years' standing. So for the short time we
fought together we were friends, and when
one died, the other must needs be received
as his friend's ghost.

It was the commonplace order of our
looks that did it, I suppose,' added Major

Methuen, still with that impatient flush on
his brow ; ' but how men in their senses can
pretend to recognise in middle age one out
of a pair of yellow-haired boys, I can't
imagine. There never was an uncommon
line in either of our faces ; there are
hundreds like us to be met with in the
streets any day.'

Are there ?' said Madcap, a little coldly
at this underrating of Frank. ' I have
always heard very differently . . . but I
see that you never really liked him or
knew how to value him.'

Did I not ?' he said, with a queer smile ;
yet we were friends enough to have no
secrets from each other (save one, and that
concerned a woman), and on the eve of

battle we exchanged ' he paused abruptly,

and said no more.

Frank was not a lad when he died,'

said Madcap ; ' he was nearly twenty seven
six years older than Gordon. Perhaps
you were older — though you need not be
so very glad of that now,' she added, looking
round at him with a little feminine
touch of spite that even an angel will
indulge in, if you disparage her favourite
saint.

But he only smiled, and she laughed, so
that peace was restored between them,
though her next question endangered it.

Pray,' said she, ' were both your heartaches
for one and the same person ?'

She was looking at him earnestly, as
though by his reply she might find the
key to an enigma that puzzled her.

Why do you ask that ?' he said, his
eyes steady, though his colour changed.

^ Because Job told me once that Frank
loved my mother,' she said, resting her

cheek on one hand and looking at him
thoughtfully ; ' but she loved father best,
and, of course, she married him. Did you
love her too ? and is that why you speak
of her so tenderly, and love me f

So you know I love you, child ?' he
said, turning to her swiftly. ' God bless
you for saying that — yes, I did love her ;
and I lost her only to find her once more —
and once more — to lose her.'

'No, not lost,' she said. 'I will love
you for my mother's sake and my own . . .
and you will forgive father ; if he wronged
you, it was unwittingly '

But he had started up ; she sat alone
on her green throne, and he was standing
below in the green hollow, gazing straight
before him, as if through the glade he saw
some fearsome thing approach.

Good-bye, little one— little child !' he

said, turning to her suddenly, as she stood'
half longing, half-fearing to descend, and
she saw in his eyes the look, the tears,
that she had surprised in them once before ;
only one thing could ever bring me back
your being in trouble, which, please God,
you never shall be.'

Good-bye,' she said gently, asking no
questions, as some children and women
will, God knows, and vex a man's soul
even while he loves them ; but when he
reached up and took her slender hand,
she laid her other over it, and held it
fast.

For a moment the strong man bowed
his head on them. ' If I oniglit stay J she
thought she heard him say ; but in another
moment, and with no further leave-taking,
she was standing alone above the hollow,
and she could not see which way he went

for tears . . . and then (for her child's
heart had gone out to him) she sat down
and cried — cried, not knowing it, for the
peace that had fled away with him for ever,
but should come back to her perchance in
other guise, bringing with it better gifts
than those ignorant ones over which she
so passionately wept.

This is the thing which I know — and which, if
you labour faithfully, you shall also know — that in
Reverence is the chief joy and power of life —
Reverence for what is pure and bright in your youth ;
for what is true and tried in the age of others ; for all
that is gracious among the living, great among the
dead, and marvellous in the Powers that cannot die !'
RUSKIN.

NE late June morning ill news
came riding full gallop to the
Red Hall, and Colonel Busby
was the Mercury that bore it.

His horse's heels struck out sparks of
news as he flew, so that everybody had
the news before he reached the Red

Hall, bursting with such importance that
Saunders was sure of something amiss, nd
admitted him instantly.

Find your young mistress immediately,'
he said, puffing himself out like a frog,
as, uninvited, he marched with stately step
into the dining-room.

My mistress is out, sir,' said the man,
using the formula Mr. Eyre had directed
him to use to all callers in his absence,
though in this instance he spoke truth ;
adding, ' she has probably gone to the
woods.'

Out !' said Colonel Busby, bouncing ashe
stood. ' Out on such an occasion as
this ? She must be found, and found immediately.'


You bring no bad news, sir, I hope.'
said the butler, pausing at the door.

Well, well,' said Colonel Busby, ' you'll

hear presently. Your mistress must be told
first, and not in a sudden way. I shall, of
course, break it to her gently — gently. I
am used to these things, you know.'

'Very true, sir,' said Saunders drily, ashe
departed ; for who ever knew Colonel
Busby to be above five minutes late for
any disaster within a radius of ten
miles ?

He flattered himself he was in at the
death now, as he walked up and down the
room, growing more and more impatient
as the minutes went by. and still Madcap
did not come. Why, good heavens ! she
mio'ht be told of it in the village, and
here was he cooling his heels, when he had
half the county to ride round that morning
with his news.

When the half-hour struck, he could contain
himself no longer, but rang the bell ;

and when Saunders appeared, said abruptly
:

Mr. Eyre is dead.'

The man started back with a cry of
horror.

Yes, here it is said Colonel Busby,
struggling to pull a pink paper out of his
pocket. ' I have it posted for me from
town every afternoon, so that I am always
half a day ahead of everybody else with
my news. See here,' and he unfurled the
paper with a flourish, and pointed a fat forefinger
at certain capital letters — burning
OF THE SAILING-SHIP ARIZONA ; all
hands lost, and one passenger — Doune
Hamilton Eyre.'

The old butler thought of Madcap, ashe
covered his eyes with two trembling
hands, blaming himself for a curious feeling
of something very like relief

'Yes, he's dead,' said Colonel Busby
cheerfully, ' and just as one might expect
quite in his usual way. I mean, as he
did things in life, involving all around him
in disaster, and disappearing, like a sort of
middle-aged Casablanca, in the flames that
lit the burning-deck, etc. ; for he must 'pose
if only to the elements.'

My master will be deeply regretted,
sir,' said the butler ; ' he was greatly respected
by all, and much loved by his
family.'

Ah, yes — to be sure,' said Colonel
Busby, drawing in his horns ; ' you see, it
is owing to his being so well known that
we have got the intelligence so quickly ;
plenty of sailing-ships are burnt or lost,
but they don't get capital letters in the
newspapers.'

My master may have left the ship,' said

Saunders thoughtfully ; ' until we receive
further particulars, sir, I think it will be
better not to say anything to Miss Madcap.
No doubt Mr. Doune has seen the paper
by now, and will be here before evening.'

I hope it is a mistake,' said Colonel
Busby coldly, as he folded up his paper,
and feeling that it would be the unkindness
cut of all from his old enemy, did that
enemy return to prove his information
incorrect.

'Well, good-day. I suppose your mistress
will be found in the course of the
morning ; very improper — very improper
indeed — her wandering about at all hours
by herself, and in those miles of woods, too —
highly irregular ;' and he fussed himself onto
his horse, and out of sight.

I must go and find her,' said the old
man aloud, as he re-entered the house ; ' so

VOL. II. 27

long as she's not gone on to the village,
there's none to tell her. But 'tis like
looking for a needle in a bundle of hay,'
he muttered, as he went to caution the
other servants against saying anything to
her if she soon came in.

They had already got the news from the
village, and some wept, and some trembled ;
one did not believe it, and another did ; but
all agreed they had felt trouble in the air
ever since master had ' broken out ' in
May.

They said he was dead once before,' said
Nan, who heard the news last, ' and he
came back safe and sound, and so he will
now ; and perhaps sorrow '11 soften Miss
Madcap's heart a bit to Master Gordon,'
she added to herself hopefully.

The old butler never walked so far under
ficood green wood as he walked that morning

; but not a flutter of his young mistress's
gown did he catch sight of, not a trace
of her could he find ; and having lost himself
four or five times, was thankful to reach
the village, which he found in a state of
extraordinary excitement and gossip.

The daily papers had arrived, and confirmed
Colonel Busby's news, and no one
seemed to doubt the truth of it, though
this second report of Mr. Eyre's death was
very differently received to that former one
which twelve years ago had convulsed the
village.

To-day all tongues spoke kindly, if they
did not bitterly deplore him ; for if to the
last he remained a man only truly lovable
to his immediate home-circle, he had at
least won the respect of these poor people
by his faithful care of his children. Many
of the villagers remembered how harshly

27—2

they had thought and spoken of him lately;
yet beneath all their words and thoughts ran
the underlying current that perhaps it was
best for her that it should be thus, for now
there would be no raking up of the old
wretched story of sin and shame, no continuance
of that pursuit on which he had
departed ; but all shortcomings, all wrong-doings,
for ever rounded off in a death that
perchance had in it some elements of
grandeur.

So, in some subdued way, his people
talked of him that morning, until Saunders
appeared in their midst, and then they
rushed to him, asking how the young mistress
'took it.'

'Miss Madcap doesn't know,' said Saunders
with dignity; 'no more do I. You'd best
all wait -a bit before putting on mourning;
master's as likely as not to walk in this very

night. AVho's to say where he got out, or
that he ever meant to go all the voyage of
the Arizona f

And he disappeared up the hill that led
to Mr. Eyre's house, leaving his listeners
plunged in a cold bath of astonishment.

To be sure, old Busby's facts is mostly
lies,' said a villager, scratching his head ;
and 'twas he as said master was dead once
afore. Happen 'twill be best to stick to
our work, in case he comes home promises
and catches us a-napping ;' and the speaker
shouldered his spade, and departed at once,
to put his own suggestion into practice.

Gradually the little crowd dispersed, but
only to gather again as a stranger came
quickly through, tall, bronzed, and bearded,
looking neither to right nor left, as he, too,
climbed the approach to the Red Hall.

It's true, then,' said one of the women,

looking after him ; * and he's come to break
it to her ; maybe some friend of her mother's
family. He's a bit like the okl Lord Lovel,
though, to be sure, he died afore he was
forty.'

Happen 'tis the young Lord Lovel 'ud
comfort her best,' said another. * There's
no cure for tears like a sweetheart's arm
round your waist ; but he'll be here by
sundown, no doubt.'

The stranger passed Saunders on the way,
so that a woman opened the door to him,
and, to his inquiry for her mistress, merely
said she was ' out.'

To his inquiry whether any bad news had
been received at the Red Hall that morning,
the woman said 'Yes ;' but added that the
young mistress did not know of it, as she
had already gone out when Colonel Busby
called.

Prating fool !' muttered the visitor below
his breath, as he turned and went through
the grounds straight to the meadow, beyond
which was the cowslip-gate he had told
Madcap he must never cross.

But he went through it now without a
thought, and pushed swiftly on ; that
curious local memory which we form under
moments of strong excitement guiding him
as he went forward, so that he scarcely
missed a yard of the way he had gone with
Madcap a fortnight ago, and soon reached a
point where he saw her in dim perspective,
sitting in her green chair, with one elbow
on its arm, and one hand supporting her
cheek.

He could not, at that distance, sec if
she looked glad or sorry, but the attitude
seemed to speak of dejection, and a closed
book lay on her knee ; and as he drew

nearer, he saw that she was pale, the corners
of her mouth drooping sorrowfully, as if
her thoughts were sadder than her loneliness.


He stopped short, suddenly struck by the
thought of how lonely she must have been
during the jjast weeks ; but her father had
been right — she was strong enough to be
left to herself ; and as Dody had been his
mother's child through and through, so this
girl had Mr. Eyre's fibre of strength in her,
and would rally from a blow that would
have slain her mother.

She looked up as he approached, and
started to her feet, so that he had time to
see how pale she was before the joyous
colour rushed into her cheeks, then out
again, leaving them paler than before.

I am not in trouble,' she said, looking
down at him as he stood in the little hollow

below ; ' did you think I was ; or have you
brought me bad news V

He could not play with the agony of
question in her eyes, but he saw how she set
her lips hard, as against a blow.

Yes,' he said, though in his heart he
knew it was good, that for the dead and the
living his news was best ; ' it is of your
father . he is dead.'

Dead !' she said standing straight up,
and gazing over his head. 'Dead . . .
father dead . . . Oh, it is impossible ! He
would have made some sign before he
died !'

His ship was destroyed at sea,' said
Major Methuen gently ; * no one was saved,
or so the ]papers say.'

Is that all V she said slowly, and looking
at him. ' Why, I thought some one had
seen his body — had buried' him — my dear.

darling dad . . . but if he has only been
lost at sea, he is safe. Does not the sea
often give up its dead \ No, not its dead,'
she added, shivering ; ' I mean those who
have been thought to be dead ; and there
are boats, and he could swim . . .'

The ship was burnt to the very water's
edge,' said Major Methuen sadly, for he
had read the latest details. * She showed
a sheet of flame against a black sky, but
every soul on board was dead when help
reached her.'

How do you know that my father was
on board ?' she said, still with that pale
strength of regard, that tearless look. ' He
may not have gone with the ship all the
way. Was it homcAvard or outward bound
when — when this happened ?'

Homeward. Your father booked his
passage out and back in it, and in the

course of another fourteen days should have
been here.'

That is true,' she said, trembling ; ' for I
have been counting the days . . . but it is
not true !' she cried, with the first ring of
passion in her voice that he had yet heard.
'He loved me, and I him . on which
day did it happen ?' she said, turning to him
quickly ; ' for I must have hnoivn it — got
some sign '

It was on Monday, at sundown,' he said,
immediately before a violent storm at
sea.'

And on Monday I was happy,' she said ;
happier than I have been since he went
away. I was thinking of you and of him
all day, and I fell asleep here at sundown,
and dreamed that I had joined your hands
together across the cowslip-gate.'

The man before her groaned and turned

away . . . had not her maiden dreams
fulfilled themselves, and might he not go
through the cowslip gate now as often as he
listed, while to her, was not the dead forever
shrine in her heart, the human idol
that in life must have fallen shattered at
her feet ?

He lives /' she cried, and the triumphant
joy of her voice startled him as he turned
to look at her, the colour in her cheek, the
light in her eye, the look of faith as strongly
stamped on her features as it had been on
Job's in those days before he found his
salvation ; ' but do you not irish him to
live V she said suddenly ; ' do you — God
forgive you — wish him dead T

He looked at her without a word, his face
growing stern as he looked.

Did he wish his enemy dead '^ Did he
see happiness for himself and her beyond

Mr. Eyre's death, the gates of Paradise
opening to him who had so long stood
starved and lonely without %

In his heart he knew he had been saying,

Please God, it is true,' ever since he heard
the news ; but now — now

'Is he the first and the best in all the
world to you, Madcap V

The first and the best,' she said, with
the first falter that had come into her voice ;

he will always be the first and the best in
the whole world to me !'

Then please God he lives,' he said slowly,
as he turned away, looking out with blind
eyes at the sunny glades, the cool shadows
beyond, of the dead man's kingdom.

He can swim miles said the girl, a
little restlessly ; 'and there are desert
islands, are there not, at sea V

Major Methuen shuddered — perhaps at

the thought of a man being so cast away —
perhaps thinking a lost soul in hell could
not suffer such torture as must be Mr. Eyre's
portion, living solitary with such a secret ashe
held locked in his breast for sole company
by night and day.

Something in his averted look, his attitude,
perhaps the fear against which she
had so stubbornly fought, suddenly pierced
her, and she stepped noiselessly to her old
seat, her face to the tree, all her high
courage gone at a breath.

So he saw her when he turned, and
thought her unconscious, as he had seen her
mother once, in a short sharp season of
bitter misery ; and his voice was harsh with
pain as he kneeled beside her, crying out,
under his breath :

Oh, my little one — my dear, my
dear ! . . .'

She heard him, and turned.

Why do sou pity me ?' she said. * Do
not do that till we are sure that he is dead
. . then you may pity me, as you might
have pitied my mother if she had lost
him.'

A feeling of powerlessness overcame the
man who heard her.

Here was the staunch devotion of the
older Madcap over again, that Mr. Eyre
himself alone could break, or that whig-her

Power who

Keeps a niche
In Heaven to hold our idols . . . albeit
He brake them to our faces, and denied
That our close kisses should impair their white.'

How long shall I have to wait before
there is a message from him ?' she said,
standing up. ' If it will be more than n
few days, I cannot bear it . . . but he will
be as quick as he can . . /

Her eyes wandered around, and she
seemed for a moment or two to listen to
the frivolous interruptions that had at
intervals crossed her misery during the past
minutes, the hum of insects, the bird-cries,
the low multitudinous sounds that swell the
forest life.

Then suddenly she stretched out her
hands, and trembled in every limb.

If it is true,' she said ; ' father . . .
father . . . and it is through your care and
love I am living now . . . always loving,
always good . . . Oh, dad . . . dad . . .'

There, cry,' said Major Methuen, as the
slow tears dropped through her fingers.
Cry as hard as you can, my poor, poor
little soul !'

No,' she said, looking up ; ' I will not.
It is like making sure that he is dead . . .
if — if — but I will not think of it. And

there is Doune to comfort , . . he will be
sorry now that he did not love him
move . . .

But it was kind of you to come and
tell me she added, looking at her companion
as if from a great way off ; ' only I
do not feel that you are sorry about father ;
and you might forgive him, now that you
think he is dead . . .'

For a while he did not answer her ; then
he said slowly, as one out of whom the
words are wrung :

If my wishing could bring him back, he
should be here ; if the sacrifice of my life
could make your happiness, Madcap, I would
give it — for your mother's sake and yours,
since neither of you could live without him,
and he must always be first and best in two
such faithful hearts.'

Yes,' said the girl, ^ always the first —

VOL. II. 28

always the best. And now I am going
home — home !' She shivered as she repeated
the word. ' As if it could be that
without him . it will be all dreary and
empty till he comes back ' (she had stepped
down into the hollow, and was walking
swiftly) ; ' and if the boys come to-day, they
must not stay — it would torment me to see
them watching and listening for every
sound, and I would rather meet him all
alone . no one on earth can love him as
well as I do.'

They went nearly in silence the rest of
the way ; but when they reached the cow-shipmate
she stopped, and held out her
hand.

Good-bye,' she said ; ' grief has made
me very selfish — but I am grateful to you,
all the same,' and went quickly through
the gate into the light beyond, leaving him

alone in the shadows, yet with the pulse of
a passionate new hope and life stirring him
to his inmost fibre, as he watched that
slender shape disappearing in the distance.

28—2

/ have lost the sound child si

JVhkh the thunder could not h'eak ;

Something, too, of the strong leaping
Of the stag-like heart awake. . . .'

One, with wet towels round his
head, was ' sporting his oak ' on
the day of Madcap's trouble, and
would not have opened his door if every
don in Oxford had thundered for admission ;
while Gordon had been on the river since
daybreak, returning only to eat and turn into
those blessed slumbers that never (save
when he thought over-long of Madcap)
failed him.

But next morning they heard the news,
and started at once for Lovel, where they
found Madcap in her usual white gown and
a white flower in her belt, and whiter roses
yet on her cheeks, reading quietly in Mr.
Eyre's study.

He is not dead,' she said, as they both
flew to her, and Doune kissed her mouth
and Gordon her cheek, while the four strong
young arms went round her as though she
were a baby, instead of something infinitely
stronger than either of them ; ' and you
must not spoil your studies,' she said to
Doune, as she kissed him ; ' so you and
Gordon will go back tomorrow, and I will
stay quietly here, and wait for Dad.'

In vain Gordon pleaded to be allowed to
go to the Towers, and be within call until
some more certain information of Mr. Eyre
was forthcoming ; in vain Doune, whose

stubborn heart was at last vanquished, and
who now knew how truly and sincerely his
father had won him, refused to return to his
beloved books ; at the end of two days
Madcap got her way, and sent them back
for the remaining fortnight of the term.

Perhaps her faith had infected them both,
perhaps she had been kinder to Gordon than
she had ever been before ; but the hearts of
both young men were lighter as they departed
than when they came ; and, if pale,
Madcap showed no signs of sadness as she
stood on the station platform to see them go.

And not a bit of black on her !' said the
villagers, as she drove back through Lovel,
her favourite grey pony, Tommy, flying
before the wind, as was his wont, though he
had the sense of a Christian, and would
dance sedately downhill like any circus
wonder, never doing his mistress any worse

trick than to tear her gloves into ribbons
when she tried to check his pace on level or
uphill ground.

But, fast as he flew, she had time to see
at the entrance to Synge Lane a man and
woman standing, so absorbed in talk that
one at least did not see her as she passed

by.

She knew the man at a glance, though
his back was towards her ; but the woman,
who looked up, was a stranger — dark, blue-eyed,
raven-haired, olive complexioned,
though her lips were red — a face to haunt
one by reason of its beauty, and the history
that it carried.

Madcap saw the whole scene in a flash,
but she did not see how the woman started,
and went pale as death as she passed, as one
to whom a ghost appears in broad sunshine.


Madcap had unconsciously coloured as
she went by, but, though she pulled up
once or twice before she reached the Eed
Hall, she asked the villagers no questions as
to what strangers were sojourning in Lovel.

She thought they looked at her oddly,
and with a furtive excitement that she did
not understand ; but glances counted for
little with her in this curious phase of her
young life, in which she seemed to walk as
in a twilight where none lived, yet whence
none had departed, and she might cling
with human love, yet remember with that
reverence which makes a saint of the
humblest dead.

In these days she felt none of that longing
for human companionship and voices that
had lately tormented her ; she would sit for
hours in her father's study, or stand before
her mother's portrait, and study his character

from her looks ; she even learned the face of
Lady Sara Villiers, the evil genius (as she
had once accidentally heard) of the family,
but found in the dark glowing face not one
tithe of the beauty of that living flesh and
blood one she had seen beside Major
Methuen in the village.

She never went to the cowslip-gate now
never went beyond sight of the house-door
; for how if her father should come
back, and find none to welcome him ?

Day by day he grew dearer in her eyes
he was so faithful, he had loved her
mother so dearly ; and this stranger to whom
her heart had so gone out, who had loved
her mother too, was lingering in the village
because he had met with an old sweetheart,
or perhaps had found a new one.

She had told neither Doune nor Gordon
of this stranger; for why should she — or.

again, why not ? There was not a trait of
deceit in her ; but here a curious reticence
asserted itself, and since no questions were
asked, she volunteered no replies.

But one day very early in July a telegram
was brought to her in an envelope of the
usual colour.

It is from father,' she said aloud, and
opened it with a firm hand.

It was from Mr. Eyre, dated Paris, and
bade her expect him home on the evening
of the following day. For awhile she sat
quite still — did ever the ease that follows
the rolling away of the stone from a human
heart equal the past misery inflicted by its
weight \ Then she said :

You will prepare everything for your
master, Saunders, for he will be here tomorrow
;' and ran out to be alone with her
great joy.

Her feet took her along the familiar path
without her bidding ; it was only when she
reached the cowslip-gate that she remembered
how long it was since she had been
there . . . but she was now carried beyond
herself, lifted into that kind of exaltation
which follows on the granting; in full the
one supreme prayer of a human soul, and
when she looked up and saw Major Methuen
on the other side, it seemed to her natural
enough that he should be there,

Do you know it already V she said
eagerly ; ' have you heard it in the village
that he will be home to-morrow f

He neither spoke nor moved ; he could
not keep out the darkness from his eyes,
the greyness that stole over his features, ashe
said :

'Thank God!— for you.'

She had passed through the cowslip-gate

as she spoke, and it had closed behind her,
for ever shutting him out from his kingdom,
though she stood beside him, and some
glimmering of the grief, the loss, the utter
shipwreck to which his life had come,
reached her soul as she looked at him, and
stretched out a gentle hand in token of
friendship.

He took it silently, looking down on it.
A minute ago how near it was, and now
how far away !

Good-bye,' he said ; ' I have wished you
more than one false good-bye, Madcap ; but
this is a real one.'

He kissed her hand, but when he let it
go, was there a tear upon it, or had one
fallen from her own eyes as she looked upto
find herself alone ?

Long she stood and gazed at it, gazed till
the memory of the man was woven in her

heart for ever, till in the long years in
which she saw him not, the thought of him
was to her as

A lower in lolikh to sleep,
Full of soft dreams and healthy and quiet breathing

Whatever my mood is,
I love Piccadilly. '

IHE tulips were all in full blow
between Grosvenor and Stanhope
Gates — the haughty yellow, the
imperial scarlet, the pink, the white, the
rose-red ; here a bed of pale young beauties
opening their mauve skirts to show pink
satin slips within, there a fair army of white
and rose, whose mingled hues showed more
daintily than those concentrated masses of
colour which seemed to dazzle the eye as it
gazed.

VOL. II.



Look !' cried a girl who sat on the box-seat
of a coach that a handsome young man
was tooling past the flower-beds ; ' that is
the prettiest sight I have seen in London
yet

They get them up very well here, don't
they ?' said the young man, not taking his
eyes ofl" his horses, for though early in the
season, the Park was rather full, and he
had no intention of ' spilling ' the precious
personage who sat beside him, to say
nothing of the duenna and servants who
sat behind.

Yes,' said the girl, looking at him indignantly,
'that is just it — they are too
well got up — they won't bow to the wind,
or tremble to the rain, and they are not
worth any one of my wild flowers at
home !'

That's right,' said the young man heartily,

but without looking at her ; ' I like to hear
you say that. To be sure, there is no place
like home ; and I shall be glad enough to
settle down there when this confounded
season is over.'

The girl did not answer ; her eyes were
fixed on the wind-swept, budding trees,
for there had been a storm over night, and
the wind had done more than the rain in
freshening, clearing, and making sweet the
air that almost smelled of country this
morning, and partly made her understand
how, even in a city, spring must be beautiful.


Who is the girl X said one male gossip
to another, and looked at the coach, now,
for a moment or so, checked by a crowd of
equestrians passing into the Now.

Eyre's daughter,' said the other ; ' the
man who was said to have murdered his wife.'

29—2

Didn't he ? And who's the man V
Lord Lovel of Lovel.'

She is well turned out said the second
gossip, looking at her from head to heel ;
and he is good form — very ; so is the
coach ; chestnuts matched to a hair ; and
her colour ; and the servants' liveries, too,
admirably chosen. He has large estates V

Yes ; out of all proportion to his income.
The late Lord Lovel was once
engaged to the girl's mother, and left
Eyre's daughter all his personal estate —
amounting to about ten thousand a year.
And, of course, the young pair are engaged.'


'Of course. But she'll soon lose that
look, eh ? Evidently doesn't know a
soul. Fancy looking at tree-tops in the
Park !'

She can afford to ; such a face as that

will make men climb to look at it. She
needn't look down.'

Poetical, by Jove !'

Yes ; I knew her mother. Eyre would
make her go through a London season, just
to disgust her with human nature, I suppose,
till she begged him to take her home.
Even her children couldn't console her, and
he never brought her again. She preferred
hearts and homes to society and houses.
And the daughter is her living image,'
added the man, as the coach moved on ;
and Eyre himself has aged very little in
seventeen years.'

Gone into Parliament, hasn't he ? Makes
the House listen when he speaks ?'

He always did — not the House, but
people. And his son is more brilliant still ;
likely to do some harm in his time, or die
in a madhouse.'

Is there insanity in the family V

No ; but eccentricity to the last degree.
The Villiers strain brought it in ; but perhaps
it's wearing out.'

Surely that's Methuen ?'

Yes, with his mother. First time I ever
saw him here.'

Awkward fellow that ; forgets all his
old friends, and makes no new ones. Hates
to be mistaken for the late Lord Lovel — a
little touched, eh ? He seems to know
Eyre's daughter ; he raised his hat to her
as she passed.'

Very likely. Lovel and Methuen fought
together in the Crimea ; joined at the last
moment, and Lovel was killed.'

And who has Eyre got as sheep-dog ?'

Didn't you see her % Lady Ann Lovel
the boy's great-aunt.'

The other man grimaced.

Not such a bad choice. She can still
climb a coach without looking ridiculous,
and has the quietest tongue and the profoundest
experience in London. No fear
of the golden apples being seized with such
an Hesperides to keep guard. So Eyre
wishes the match V

He buried his heart in his wife's grave ;
a daughter's well enough, but she's not a
wife.'

He won't marry again ?'

'Not he — the Duchess of Marmiton
couldn't persuade him ; and if she couldn't,
no one else will.'

So that's why she still mourns the
Duke r

To be sure. Eyre was a devil of a
fellow among the women at one time, and
he made a fool of her among the rest — but
he is invulnerable now.'

Having lost his power of charming ?'
said the other man.

Not he. Ask the Duchess.'

She means to introduce the girl ?'

No doubt. But where's the good ?
She is her mother over again — she will
run away from all the finery, and marry
that handsome young fellow in a village
church.'

But her mother married an old one ?'

Yes — worse luck for her.'

The Honourable Nancy looks very fit
to-day,' said the other gossip, exhausted
by a subject that he had only so long
pursued because Madcap's face had charmed
him.

Yes — Lovel's first cousin — he might do
worse than marry lie, if Eyre's daughter
throws him over.'

Meanwhile Madcap sat excited, with

shining eyes, and longed to ask Gordon
to turn his horses' heads that she might
get another glimpse of the man whom she
had not seen for three years, and who had
long ago passed into her memory as a
friend.

And he had remembered her, though
she must have altered, surely, and he had
saluted her.

How lucky that Gordon did not see him ;
for how could she excuse the silence she
had preserved about him all this time ?
What could she say if she met him in
society one day when she was with her
father, and he approached her ?

But she felt that she did not care, she
was so happy, so happy to see him once
again; and her voice startled Gordon with
its joy as at Victoria Gate she begged him
to go back and draw up for a little while,

because she wished to look at the people as
they went by.

But I thought you wanted to drive someway
out said Gordon, considerably astonished
at her change of mind ; and he turned
to find her radiant as in her wildest days,
and looking so bewitching that not even the
unbecoming altitude at which she sat could
spoil her, or check the murmur of admiration
that presently ran along the idlers
who hung about the rails, or moved to
and fro.

But it was early yet, not one o'clock, the
Eyres having brought their country habits
with them to town ; so that usually they
rode before breakfast, and drove before
luncheon, and, as far as possible, lived their
usual lives in the midst of unusual surroundings.


But if Lady Ann, as a fashionable woman,

sometimes felt ridiculous at appearing so
unseasonably, she was satisfied to see
Madcap entirely indifferent to society and
admiration, and happy only with her family
and Gordon.

To be sure, there had scarcely been time
for a new lover to appear on the horizon,
but with the engagement between the young
pair tacitly understood everywhere, there
was little chance of any suitor showing
himself bold enough to enter the lists
against the established lover.

Who was that gentleman who raised his
hat to you, my dear V said the faithful
sheep-dog presently, while Gordon was
leaning over to speak to a friend below.

What gentleman V said Madcap, looking
away. ' I have seen more than one man
that I danced with last night.'

Yet Lady Ann wondered what had

brought such new life and colour into the
girl's face, and resolved to keep her eyes
well open for the future.

But as gradually the Park filled with its
smart morning ranks of folk on foot, Madcap
grew suddenly tired of it all, and
begged Gordon to take her down past
Holland Park, as they had intended to do
on starting.

And tomorrow morning we will walk
in the Park,' she said restlessly, as they
went bowling down the almost deserted
drive. ' One cannot speak to anyone up
here ; and we are sure to meet some one or
other that we know, are we not V

Are you in such a hurry to meet your
partners again V said Gordon, a shade on
his brow ; ' and you made fun enough of
them, too, coming home.'

Yes,' said Madcap, ' so I did ; and I

think it very ridiculous that one may not
pick and choose one's own partners •'

A pretty state of things it would be, if
introductions were done away with,' said
Gordon, in high disdain.

Do you think so V said Madcap, with
spirit. 'Now, if I were a great lady I
would print "sans introduction'' on all
my ball-cards, and leave the guests to
please their taste in the choice of partners
to choose the prettiest, the wittiest, or
the one that he liked best I Think wdiat
conversations one might have getting upstairs
— what groans one might exchange
over the heat — what home-truths one might
hear of one's self — what odd lights on
prominent subjects one might gather — even
learn the name of some of the celebrities
with whom one rubbed elbows — perhaps
persons whom one has longed to see all

one's life, but who look just like everybody
else after all !'

It would never answer, Madcap,' said
Gordon. ' No decent man or woman was
ever picked up without a proper introduction.'


Was she not V said Madcap, her eyes
resting on the brown trees just ruffled with
green in Kensington Gardens.

But to continue : I have an idea about
the celebrities. Why should not a famous
woman carry her name emblazoned on her
fan, and a man this on the inside of his
opera-hat ?'

Why not come as sandwich men and
women at once *?' said Gordon drily.

Or better, still, for the hostess to have
a panel in the wall that is illuminated by
a famous name in its owner's presence, and
goes out when he departs ?'

'Like Willing's advertisements on the
underground said Gordon, intent on this
horses, for by now they had turned homewards.
'No, no. Madcap. There are
rules about these things, and if you
broke them, you would only be misunderstood
'

Would a man misunderstand a child if
she were friendly with him, even though
she had never had the shibboleth of introduction
mumbled over her ?' said Madcap,
with her head turned away.

But you are not a child,' said Gordon.
You are grown up now — thank Heaven !
And so am I. And what do you want with
strangers, dear ? You've got us!

Yes,' she said ; ' but father is away so
much. So is Doune ; while you are quite
happy with your team '

I only had it to please you,' said Gordon,

colouring with disappointment, ' because you
said you could not live in town without fresh
air ; and I thought I would drive you out
somewhere every day.'

^ That is true,' she said gently. ' But I
am tired and cross, Geordie ; and I would
like to fall asleep this minute, and wake up
in the woods, with no balls or fine London
ways to worry me !'

It will soon be over,' said the young
man. ' And your father would have it so.
But cheer up. You will never be asked to
come up a second time !'

I shall come every year that father
wishes it,' she said coldly ; ' but it will not
be for long. You know he only went into
Parliament to nurse the seat for Doune,
who will be old enough to take it within
a very few years.'

He went into the House to please himself,'

said Gordon, as he turned his chestnuts
homeward ; ^ he never could settle
down, and he never will, since he took that
journey three years ago.'

He loves me just the same,' said Madcap
proudly, though tears were in her eyes ;
and it is not likely that he would be satisfied
with the quiet life that suits boys — and
a girl.'

She looked at one of the ' boys ' as she
said it, and saw a young man of the best
type of muscular English manhood, and
dressed so that one was as ignorant of his
clothes as an aborigine is of Ms — and felt
the pleasure of seeing him exactly right in
every particular, from the body that his
clothes fitted, upwards to the glance that
every Lovel claimed as his birthright.

But her eyes were cold as she looked at
him — how like he was to those other men

VOL. II. 30

that she met at every step in New Bond
Street (while a beautiful woman or girl
came as far between as a pearl in a shipload
of oysters) ; but never had she seen
the fellow to the seamed, sunburnt face
that, three years hidden from her, she had
seen in the Park that day.

A few people had recognised Madcap,
when Gordon drove past, as the lovely young
debutante introduced to London society by
the Duchess of Marmiton over-night ; buta
great many who knew her mother's story
were on the look-out for her as she came
back, her wistful eyes wandering to and fro
among the faces below, as if she were seeking
what she could not find.

Was she happy ? the curious asked, as
they looked at her, young, with the downy
cheeks of a child, and the beauty of a
woman — the mistress of ten thousand a

year, and engaged to one of the handsomest
young fellows in town, and her neighbour
in the country, Lord Lovel.

The women picked her to pieces because
they could not forgive her for being as
perfectly turned out as her equipage, for,
of course, they said, she furnished it, since
Lord Lovel was so poor ; and thus Gordon's
sole extravagance that season, and for which
he denied himself things that other men
took as a matter of course, was turned into
an occasion of reproach to him, as he
accidentally found out later.

His heart was heavy enough when he
drew up at Curzon Street, for to-day it
seemed that less than ever he had been
able to please Madcap ; but Mr. Eyre, who
happened to be in the dining-room and
looking out, thought he had seldom seen
a prettier sight than the drag as it came

30—2

clown the street, the sun shining on the
harness and the horses' satin coats, with
the two handsome young faces behind them
to complete the picture.

She saw him standing there, and when
the coach stopped, descended from it at
the risk of her neck, and flew to the
dining-room ; but he had retreated to the
library, and was sitting at his table when
she reached him.

Oh, father !' she cried, ' why didn't you
come with us ? You could have driven,
and Gordon sat behind with Lady Ann !'

He laughed in spite of himself, but looked
at ber keenly, and wondered if the mere
first whiff" of a London season had intoxicated
and made her frivolous.

Haven't you got room for me on your
knee V she said reproachfully, as he pushed
some books from the chair nearest to him.

I am not so very much heavier than I
used to be, if I am obliged to be grownup
!

Don't you like it '?' he said, looking her
carefully over as she perched herself on the
desired vantage-ground. ' Your dress becomes
you ; you have more style, if you
have less beauty, than your mother ; and
you seem very happy '

So I am now she said, with a sigh of
satisfaction ; ' but, do you know, this is my
fifth day in town, and here is the first real
chance I've had of a talk with you X

He shook his head, and thought of the
lover ; for here was the mischief of it, and
one of those dark shades to Mr. Eyre's
character : that from the moment he had
contemplated his daughter as Gordon's wife,
possibly loving Gordon hest in the end, the
close link between himself and her was

virtually severed, and insensibly she receded
in his thoughts to make room for
the other Madcap . . . since, though someone
was bound to steal his daughter, no
living man could have stolen from him his
wife.

No — no,' he said ; * your place is out in
the sunshine, and you look very well there ;
and you must not tire of Gordon's company
thus early, child, for you have far enough
to ride with him yet.'

I would rather walk in the mud beside
yoiil she said, with an arm round his neck,
and her cool cheek to his. ' And why
must you turn me out, father ? why are
you so set on my marrying Gordon — or
anybody ?'

It is a woman's lot to marry,' said Mr.
Eyre, haggling over the words that his wife
would have known so well how to say to

her young daughter ; ' and I am growing
old '

I wish Gordon would get a touch of the
same complaint !' said Madcap, tears and
rueful laughter struggling together in her
eyes. ' He says he gets older with every
year ; but I can't see the least signs of improvement
!' — which was true enough ; but
neither could Gordon find any in lier.

If in summer he asked her to be his wife,
she said she hated being worried in warm
weather, and he could ask her again in
autumn ; and when autumn came, she said
Christmas was the time for asking questions
of that sort ; though when Christmas arrived,
she recommended his waiting till Valentine's
Day, yet found no satisfactory rej^ly to give
him then. Yet, half a loaf being better
than no bread, he waited on her caprices
patiently.

Once he asked her if there were anybody-else
— if accidentally she had met some other
man who had cut him out, and if he knew
his name ?

And to this she had answered truly
enough, ' There is no name ;' for a girl
has no name, spoken or thought, for the
man who has, whether consciously or unconsciously,
won her heart.

Perhaps Mr. Eyre, supposing the end
inevitable, had resolved to bring matters
to a climax by throwing the young people
together under novel conditions in town ;
but, at any rate, he had moved his household
thither early this spring, to Doune's
amazement and Gordon's profound disgust.



But to-day — to-day — what had come to
the girl ?

Mr. Eyre seemed to see his wife, as she

had looked under the influence of love for
him, in this daughter whose eyes had
deepened and darkened during the morning's
drive ; and if not for Gordon, then,
of course, for some partner at the assembly
over-night.

He had not thought her made of such
inflammable stuff", and looked at her coldly ashe
asked how she had enjoyed her first ball.

It was overcrowded,' she said, * and
the flowers you gave me withered directly ;
but the Duchess was very kind — and the
men were all alike, though I fancied I
recognised one or two of them in the Park
to-day.'

So you prefer no one to Gordon V said
Mr. Eyre, a little impatiently. * And that's
natural enough ; you have everything in
common — your country pursuits, open-air
life, tastes, age, good looks.'

And how about our heart f said Madcap,
retreating so far to the verge of her
father's knee as to be in danger of falling
off ; 'it takes two to make a bargain, does
it not, even in love T

Your mother and I made none,' he said,
thinking of hoar, without a doubt or a fear,
his true-love had fled to his arms as her
haven.

But she loved you,' said Madcap softly ;
not her other lovers.'

And what do you know of your
mother's lovers ?' said Mr. Eyre sternly ;
and for the first time in her life she
realized how terrible he could look in his
wrath.

Lord Lovel loved my mother,' she said;
and she loved you — that was all.'

And perhaps, after all, she had done
better to love Azm,' said Mr. Eyre, setting

Lis daughter down, and walking restlessly
to and fro. ' But I'll have you exposed to
no such chances, child, for you might not
come off so well, and that wretched fortune
of yours would make you the quarry of
every titled beggar in town, but for your
supposed engagement to Lovel. And I
think you are not treating him well — in
short, ungratefully '

Why should I be grateful to him for
loving me more than I wish ?' said Madcap
sadly. ' Does any girl ever willingly leave
her father, her home, everything to go away
with a young man just because he asks her?
I cannot understand it.'

And this was true . no inward teaching
had yet come to the girl to make such
departure the most natural, beautiful thing
in the world.

Mr. Eyre stopped to look at lier, and his

face softened — he held out his arms, and
she ran into them.

You shall not go till you are willing
he said. ' God knows I don't want to lose
you, though I have been staring that fact
in the face these two years ; but blame
yourself if Gordon falls in love with someone
else one of these days '

If only he would !' said Madcap, brilliant
satisfaction lighting up her face at the idea,
and leave you and me to be happy together
!'

Mr. Eyre pinched her cheek, and asked
if he and she did not dine out together that

o

night.

To be sure,' said Madcap, jumping for
joy; ' and without the sheep-dog,' she added
in a cautious whisper, as she looked
round. ' Oh, Dad ! loliy need I have had
one?'

Does she worry you ?' said Mr. Eyre.
^ I chose her for her silence ; and remember,
child, that though the Duchess and she
may dress, shoe, metamorphose your body
as they please (within certain limits), I
expect them to leave your manners as they
found them. And how do you like the
Duchess ?'

I don't know ; I have only seen her
twice.'

That's right; always reserve your judgment.
But she is a good, faithful sort of
woman, and means well ; and since you
must see life a little, you may as well do sounder
good auspices.'

But why must I, father ?' said Madcap.


'Ah, why?' he said. 'Perhaps I want
to make you in love with the country.
Perhaps I can't live in toAvn without you.

I shall be a little anxious about you tonight,
as the party is a small one, and your
conversation will be remarked. But you
can't do wrong if you forget all about
yourself, your face, and your gown. Remember,
there are twelve hours in which
you can think about yourself ; in the other
twelve do not talk of it. And you are too
young to be expected to start topics, so
you must cultivate listening, and you will
soon have the best talkers at your service.
Then you must not lay yourself out for
attraction. You are not a shop, to
put all your best thoughts and graces
for sale in the window; keep them for
home, where they will be most valued.
There's the luncheon-bell, and I thmk I
heard the duenna and Doune come in just
now.'

Here is Gordon's only rival,' thought

Lady Ann, as Madcap came laughing into
the room on her father's arm ; and lie
smiled, not ill-pleased that there should be
only such an one in the field.

So nimble and so full of subtile flame
As if that every one from ichom they came
Had meant to put his hole cit in a jest
And had resolved to live a fool the rest
Of his did life.'

HE library clock had struck a
quarter to eight, and Mr. Eyre
looked up a little impatiently,
wondering what detained Madcap.

His heart was full of her that day ; and
for the first time since he sailed away in
the Arizona the link between him and his
daughter was knit close as in her childish
days, while satisfaction at holding the first

place in her heart extinguished his regrets
for the young lover's disappointment.

For the first time since that Sunday
when he had seemed to wake from a dream,
he felt something of the old peace that had
preceded his awakening, and was already
thinking of the country and those peaceful
pursuits that had lost their charm for him
since his return from that fruitless journey
upon which he had set out on the ill-starred
sailing-ship Arizona.

He had never meant to return by her,
and, intent on following up clue after clue
of Hester Clarke, did not for days hear
of the catastrophe that had pierced Madcap's
heart, and even then he was thinking
less of his daughter than of the woman
whom he believed to have tracked to her
hiding-place at last.

But the thread broke in his hands ; so

VOL. II. 31

that once more he turned homewards with
despair in his heart, and still that stubborn
resolve to wrest truth from the dead or
the living yet.

Meanwhile, he threw himself into the
exercise of his brain ; and when, six months
after his return, he was asked to stand as
Conservative member for Marmiton, he consented
; and, being duly returned, might
have become a shining light in the House
had he so willed.

But very quickly he wearied of such
legalized schoolboy antics as he witnessed
each day ; and, not caring to accept office
under the Government of that period, did
not trouble to exert the powerful influence
he possessed ; and while he spoke but
rarely, was regarded as a man who escheated
brilliancy, and preferred to husband his
talents rather than display them.

For two years he endured at intervals
the solitude of a town house brightened
by young steps and voices ; but in the
third he called up Madcap, and established
her delightfully: for Mr. Eyre was rich, in
so far that he was not one of those who
live to-day by the light of tomorrow, and
he could afford to give his daughter all
those fripperies and delicacies of surrounding
that set off a young maid to so much
advantage.

And she had joined him eagerly, gladly,
for, like her father, she seemed to have
wearied of the peaceful life that once had
so profoundly contented her; yet now that
she was away from it, her heart was restless
still — or had been till that morning.

Presently Mr. Eyre looked up to see her
standing near him, satin-shod, gazing at
him with those eyes of love that have no

31—2

copy; and as he glanced her over carefully,
he saw that Mrs. Mason's taste had not
betrayed the girl . for here was a morning
face above a primrose gown, edged with
pearls, and choicer ones about her neck and
arms, and in her hands a curious fan, made
of white flowers, that he had himself
ordered for her that morning".

Have I kept you waiting, father ?' she
said ; * but I have been standing here
some minutes, though you did not see me

Something of his lost happiness, his lost
future, seemed to come back to him as he
went forward and kissed her, then led her
to the brougham that had been one of his
extravagances for her; for, desiring that
beauty should go beautifully,' he had
ordered the inside fittings of the carriage
to be of white satin — the finest setting of
all for a young girl's face.

Many people looked at the two as they
passed down Piccadilly, thinking Madcap
must be wife to the brilliant-eyed middle-aged
man by whom she sat, so joyous she
looked, and so entirely was she engrossed
by his conversation.

They had almost reached their destination
— Whitehall — when a check came in
their progress, and the jar of opposing
wheels made Madcap look up startled, to
see that their carriage had become locked
with a hansom going in the contrary
direction, and with a bound of the heart,
a sinking of her pulse, and a sudden ebbing
away of the blood fi^om her face, saw that
the occupant of the hansom was Major
Methuen.

He Alas looking full at her — at the attitude
of father and daughter as they sat
side by side in that white nest, Mr. Eyre's

unloved hand in her two slender ones —
his eyes in one flash taking in every detail
of her loveliness ; then they left her to meet
those of Mr. Eyre in a lightning-glance
of recognition that made the latter spring
forward with a fierce, choked cry of —
Frank r

But on the instant the wheels unlocked,
the horses sprang forward ; before Mr.
Eyre could recover from the kind of horror
in which he was plunged, the carriage and
the hansom were three hundred yards
apart.

He pulled the check string like a madman.
For the first time in her life Madcap
saw him thrown completely off his balance,
and trembled as he bade the coachman turn
and drive back for his life, himself leaning
out of the window as they thundered up
St. James's Street ; but in every hansom

they overtook he searched in vain for the
face that had startled him.

Madcap sat pale and cold.

What did it all mean? Why had not
Major Methuen acknowledged her, and
.what meant that extraordinary look which
she had intercepted on its way to her
father ?

And now came the firstfruits of the
deceit she had practised towards her people
in never speaking of her acquaintance with
Lord Lovel's friend ; and she dreaded the
moment when Mr. Eyre should turn to face
her.

Common sense made him abandon a mad
pursuit in a very few minutes ; and when
they were once more approaching their destination
Mr. Eyre sat down, and turned to
Madcap.

Have I frightened you, child ?' he said.

But I've seen a ghost — Frank's ghost —
fifteen years older than when I saw him
last, in his coffin ; but those were his eyes,
and he recognised me. Surely I'm not
going mad — and it can't be a chance
resemblance — don't I know his face by
heart ?'

^ But if he had known you ? Oh, what
am I saying?' said Madcap ] 'how could a
ghost how to one? It must be some curious
resemblance ;' she blushed and looked
away. ' Gordon says there are numbers of
men in town who have their doubles, and
are constantly mistaken for one another,
even hear all each other's secrets, and are
made love to by proxy!'

The carriage stopped at that moment,
and Mr. Eyre was his usual self as he took
her into the house ; but very early during
dinner he asked his hostess if she had ever

met a man in town exactly like the late
Lord Lovel.

She had not ; but as the party, though
small, included the inevitable diner-out
whose memory constituted his living, Mr.
Eyre was soon informed that Frank's
doppel-g linger was a certain Major Methuen,
who, curiously enough, had been his friend,
and fought beside him in the Crimea.

'Methuen!' exclaimed Mr. Eyre, thinking
of a letter he had received years ago.
What is this club ?' he added.

Naval and Military ; but he rarely
shows there. Hates to be spoken to ; got
a little touched in the head through sunstroke
in India, and won't answer if by
mistake anyone addresses him as " Lovel." '

I shall try and find him tomorrow,'
said Mr. Eyre carelessly ; and the subject
dropped.

Madcap heard all, and grew pale ; for
what could this meeting between the two
men bring about but trouble ? And yet, if
the antipathy felt by Major Methuen were
due to his friendship for Lord Lovel and
his being a little ' touched,' might not her
father and he come to some such good
understanding as might bring him into her
life again ?

That Mr. Eyre did not shrink from meeting
him, and was ignorant of having done
him any injury, was clear. If at first he
had been startled by the extraordinary resemblance
to Lord Lovel, there had been
no sign of fear in his face, and as the
evening passed, never had his spirits seemed
better, or his wit more brilliant, seeming
to summon forth all that was brightest in
each person present.

As they drove home Mr. Eyre said :

You have always wanted to see Frank,
child ; well, you have seen him to-day — ashe
would have been if he lived. But it has
given me a queer turn — almost as if I had
died, and come back as a ghost to find a
stranger strutting in my image. But why,
if that was Methuen, he should look at meas
if I were his enemy, God knows ; unless,
being Frank's friend, he has taken up his
quarrels.'

Did you quarrel with Lord Lovel,
father?' said Madcap, trembling.

Not I ; but he behaved ill to me, and
would never come to any explanation —
though two minutes face to face would have
put an end to the misunderstanding. Perhaps
Methuen has the key to the riddle '
(Madcap started at the excited note in her
father's voice) ; ' if so, I'll borrow or steal it.'

So there had been only a misunderstanding

between her father and Lord Loveland
two such men as Mr. Eyre and Lancelot
must understand each other when they
met, thought Madcap, though still cast-down
by thoughts of her deceit. And
surely, if only for the sake of his child-friend,
for her likeness to that other Madcap
he had known and loved, this man
would bury the hatchet, and make friends.

And through all her thoughts ran the lilt
of an old song, that seemed to sing in at
her ears and heart :

And ivill I see his face again ?
And will I hear him speak ?
Tm downright dizzy vi' the thocht ;
In troth Tri like to greet.'

CHAPTER III.

earn! you by yon water-side ?

Pud ye the rose or lily ?
Or cam! ye by yon meadow green ;

Or said ye my sweet Willie f

■ ADCAP r exclaimed Doune, as,
coming quickly into the ,
he found his sister
there alone ; ' what are you doing here so
early? I thought you and Lady Ann
never rose till nine V

Then you thought wrong,' said Madcap,
turning a shoulder, not a cheek, to Doune's
offered kiss ; ' though, to be sure, I wonder

you took the trouble to think at all on the
subject !'

Have I neglected you, Madcap ?' said
the young fellow remorsefully ; ' but you
see, I have never stayed in town before ;
and there is so much to interest one, and I
like to hear father speak '

But you never listen to me /' said Madcap,
who had kept a bone to pick with her
brother these three years, and now produced
it. ' It is always read, read ; learn, learn ;
but no pouring out, no passing on of your
treasures to other folk. Have you ever
thought how utterly selfish, how demoralizing
all this reading is V

But I have not read at all lately,' said
the dark, over-brilliant-eyed young man ;
I only look on, and listen '

But why can't you talk f cried Madcap,
stamping her foot ; ' when I was little, you

talked rigmaroles to me by the hour ; but
when I grew up, and began to get strong
and — and stout,' she added, glancing at a
mirror that showed her slim proportions,
you took to those wretched books, and
never thought of me again !'

Didn't I V he said, with something of
the old boyish ring of jealousy in his voice ;
well, perhaps I found out long ago that
father is first with you, and the rest are
nowhere.'

When did you find that out ?' said Madcap,
turning round, and showing a very
happy face in spite of her wrongs.

'Oh, by bits,' said her brother moodily,
as he walked to the other window and looked
out ; ' but I've learned my lesson somehow,
though I did not discover it in my books.'

And you love me letter than them ?' she
said, drawing near.

And you love me as well as father V said
her brother, facing round.

'Yes — only differently.'

There loss a time,' said the young man,
looking at her with dissatisfied eyes, ' when
nothing would induce you to put one of us
before the other — "Dad and Doony," you
would say, when asked which you liked
best ; but now '

Have I neglected you, dear V she said,
using his own question, as she came close
to him and took his long supple hand — the
hand of a scholar and a thinker.

Perhaps,' he said, ' we have both something
to blame ourselves with on that score.
And every day that I live, I miss my
mother more. But that is not your fault ;
and, to be sure, I neglected you once for
Gordon ; just as now, when father is out of
the way, you neglect me for him.*

For Gordon ?' she said, as she stood on
tiptoe to kiss her brother's cheek. 'Oh,
poor Gordon ! Aslz him, and he will tell
you if I prefer his company to yours !'

Poor Gordon indeed !' said Doune,
looking at her with some rebuke ; ' a better
fellow never lived, and if you are going to
treat him badly '

Come to the Park with us this morning,
and see for yourself how I treat him !' said
Madcap, feeling happier in her home-treasures
than she had done for years ; ' and
put all those fusty books out of your head,
and forget all your first-class honours for
the next three months !'

'The honours are easily forgotten,' said
Doune, with one of those rare smiles that
made him more than ever like his father ;
but I can't forswear my books, Madcap,
any more than you could your woods.'

VOL. II. 32

We will make a compromise,' she said :
sometimes you shall come with me to the
woods, and sometimes I will look into your
books — and so we will be more together
than we have been added the girl wistfully,
as she put both arms round her
brother's neck and kissed him with all her
heart.

Ducks, darling Madcap !' said Doune,
reverting to the old terms of childish
endearment, as he kissed her back ; ' but I
shall be glad when we get home again,
though London is not half such a bad place
after all.'

Madcap thought it was very good, as she
stood with Doune's arm round her, smelling
the sweet stocks and mignonette that filled
the sills of the open window . . . hard by
a band had begun to play, and better too
(in her ears) than the Horse Guards had

played yesterday in the Park ; and for the
first time she tasted the charm of that
throbbing town-life without, while she
rejoiced in the home-life within, and stood
listening and quite happy till Lady Ann
came in, followed by Mr. Eyre.

Both paused on the threshold, and for a
second mistook Doune for Gordon, till Madcap
looked round, and flew to her father,
wishing her duenna ' Good-morning ' by the
way.

He looked worn and unrested ; but her
heart must have been hard that morning,
for she was in wild spirits all through breakfast,
astonishing Saunders, who thought
she had taken one of those occasional leaves
out of her father's book in which he was
'fey.'

Gordon was lodged in the Albany, and
seldom showed at breakfast in Curzon

Street ; but this morning he made Lady
Ann, at least, happy Ijy coming in before
they had left the table, and contributing
his quota to the brightness and good looks
of the assembly.

What will you do this morning ?' he
said, when he had reached his Princess, and
found her so joyous and kind that his own
spirits ran up like quicksilver.

I shall loalk,^ she said. ' You, Doune,
and I — and Lady Ann she added, remembering
her sheep-dog, with an effort ; ' and
father will come to us later, when he has
got his business over — won't you, Dad V
she added eagerly.

'Yes, child,' he said absently, 'unless I
have to hunt for Methuen. But I have sot
his mother's address, and shall find him, no
doubt.'

'Methuen?' said Gordon, looking up;

why, you will never catch him, sir ; he is
not at home to his oldest friends, and in
fact has forgotten them all — for he is
cracked.'

I wish you had half his brains,' thought
Madcap, longing to box the boy's ears, and
sighing for some scar to tone down his
beauty, while Mr. Eyre said :

You have met him — you know him by
sight V

Yes,' said Gordon, ' he was pointed out
to me long ago, as curiously resembling the
Lovels — and particularly my cousin Frank.
It seems that he is tied to town by his
mother's illness. She is bed-ridden, and
cannot be moved ; but he rarely shows anywhere,
end lives like a hermit.'

Then he will be the more easy to find,'
said Mr. Eyre, as he rose and went out.

What has upset father V said Doune,

looking after him; while Gordon looked at
Madcap, and strove to derive auguries of
his day's good from her face.

He is going to pay a morning call,' said
Madcap, jumping up and stretching out her
arms as though she would like to fly for
joy ; ' but I must run after him, and tell
him where to find us— beside Achilles, I
think — he couldn't miss us there ;' and she
ran out of the room.

The young men laughed, but Lady Ann
frowned ; she saw trouble ahead, and wore
her gravest look, as Gordon presently
sat down beside her, and asked if she
had received any fresh news of his
mother.

She is coming over in June,' said Lady
Ann ; ' but your cousin Nancy has already
arrived.'

'Why are all the Lovels either Ann or

Nancy ?' said Madcap, laughing, as she
stole between them.

But I am not a Lovel,' said the elder
lady, with dignity ; ' I merely married one
it is in my own right that I am Lady
Ann.'

But Duke's daughters or no,' said Madcap
slily, ' there is always a Nancy among
the Lovels — and perhaps the one you were
talking about will suit Gordon !'

She was out at the door before aunt and
nephew recovered from this bomb, and had
flown upstairs to Nan, who sat as firmly
fixed to her ' seam' here as at Lovel, and
scarcely looked up as her young mistress
rushed in.

Madcap snatched the linen out of the
woman's hands and tossed it behind her
back ; then, as Nan stared, said :

I am going to walk in the Park this

morning, and you are to come down with
me and choose my prettiest gown ;' whereupon
the woman followed, shaking her
head with vague forebodings of unsuspected
wooers as she went, and ready to find fault
with every garment submitted to her inspection.


But when Madcap had made her own
choice, and was dressed in a fresh cotton
gown, with those minutiae of a lady's toilette
that mark it rigorously respected, Nan
admitted that she had never seen her young
mistress look better, nor even so well, in
those low-necked frocks that had shocked
her with their boldness.

'After all,' cried Madcap, an hour
later, as, escorted by her two henchmen,
she set out for the Park, ' I should not
wonder if I ended by liking town very
much r

God forbid !' thought Gordon ; but
Doune laughed, and said :

'And I prophesy that in less than a
month you will be running away from it,
and hiding yourself in the remotest corner
of your beloved woods.'

And if I do,' she said, ' you shall bring
one of your beloved books, and we will sit
there together, you and I !'

And how about Gordon ?' said Doune,
seeing the shade on his friend's face.

Gordon may come too,' said Madcap, a
little unwillingly, as a child who makes a
face to itself while it gives the kiss to which
it is commanded ; ' but he will have lots todo
looking after the estate !'

She looked up at him with a smile, bright
and cold as a January sun, and he had
never felt farther away from her as he
walked that short step with her to the

Park, while she he thought, had never
seemed so happy before.

For was not Doune by her side, come
back to his old boyish love and care of her ?
had not her father been kind yesterday, and
was there not a secret, half-guilty hope in
her heart that put new rainbow-tints on
everything at which she gazed ?

How smart and fresh the women looked
in their perfectly made cottons or cambric
how much more becoming this costly simplicity
than the undress worn at sundown !

And all looked their best, and nearly all
so happy — as glad as Madcap to shuffle off
the coil of winter clothes, and come out in
their proper shapes, and smell sweet fresh
scents ; all eager, too, in laying plans for
new pleasures, as if this were their first
campaign, and the spring lasted for ever
and among the girl-faces Madcap's

was the brightest, and attracted the most
attention from the lookers-on.

She was already known by sight, and by
hearsay celebrated as her father's daughter ;
and half a dozen male gossips who moved
briskly, soon finished the business, so that,
after half an hour of hard staring at, the
young men both longed to beat a retreat.


Each dreaded lest some whisper from
these evidently well-informed people should
reach her ear, and break her happiness forever
; and for the first time Doune realized
how terrible was the risk Mr. Eyre had run
in exposing her to the chances of a London
season.

For long ago the son had heard the
story of his mother's death, and one day
sought his father, and, with flaming eyes,
said :

They say you killed my mother. Bid
you ?'

That interview made father and son
firmer friends than before ; but this boy,
who went through all his agony without a
sign to her, trembled for Madcap when she
should come to the same bitter knowledge
as himself.

It is unbearably hot,' he said to his
sister, after some half-dozen turns, in which
Madcap had been more admired, criticized,
and envied than any other woman in the
Park.

Hot ?' said Madcap, looking up to the
scantily-clothed trees overhead, through
which the April sun could not shine hard
enough to excuse that fine lady's freak, a
parasol ; ' it is perfectly delightful ; and
father will be waiting for us beside Achilles
presently.'

He won't come said Doune moodily,
as he turned once more to see Madcap run
the gauntlet of looked and whispered comment
; but was forced to smooth his brow,
as just then they met Mr. Eyre's Duchess,
looking as beautiful in her morning-gown
as only a woman can who abhors cosmetics
and has stood by her own heart (though
mickle dole, much pain it had taught her)
for nigh upon a score of years.

Yet at seven and thirty she might have
tempted almost any man save Mr. Eyre,
for love had winnowed her nature, leaving
only that better part which writes its mark
on a woman's brow and lips for aye ; and
if she looked at the younger Madcap coldly,
seeing her rival here as surely as the older
one had been, there was more heart in the
look than there had been eighteen years
ago.

Father will be here presently said
Madcap to the Duchess ; then wondered to
see the sudden blush, the brightening eye,
and with a jealous pang at her own heart
thought, ' She is in love with father !'

But in a moment the blush had vanished,
though a joyous look remained ; for, in
spite of her dozen years of patient waiting
since the Duke's death, she yet clung to
the hope that when Mr. Eyre was robbed
of this second Madcap, he would turn to
seek consolation where assuredly it would
not be denied him.

'Does he come with you to-night?' she
said, as the whole party moved on together.

No ; he will be at the House ; and
Doune will be there too.'

He is there too much,' said the Duchess,
her eyes softening as she glanced back at
that younger copy of him she loved ; ' he

must fall in love, and forget his brains for a
time.'

Oh no !' exclaimed Madcap hastily —
indeed he must not ; besides, we never fall
in love in our family !'

Poor Lord Lovel !' said the Duchess,
raising her brows.

she is very happy,' said Madcap serenely ;
somehow all his race take very kindly to
the tender passion, just as the Eyres keep
themselves clear of it. Have you ever met
Major Methuen?' she added, with an abrupt
change of subject that astonished her companion.


No ; but I am anxious to meet him.
Even a bad copy of that charming fellow,
Frank, could not help being more delightful
than another man's self.'

Madcap !' exclaimed Gordon, with some
excitement in his voice, ' there is Xanciebel

coming ; I want to introduce you to her ;'
and he went forward quickly to meet her.

A bright blush of pleasure overspread the
girl's face at sight of him ; there was more
than cousinly warmth in the way their
hands met, or so Madcap thought, as she
slowly advanced, and across lier mind there
flashed an idea that charmed her.

This is Madcap,' said the young fellow,
as the two girls stood looking at each
other, each with eyes alight and curious,
though with very different reasons for their

eagerness.

And you are Gordon's cousin,' said
Madcap ; and then the two slim hands met,
and other introductions followed, in the
course of which Cupid found time to shoot
a dart at one of those present, and inflict a
wound that not even time was able to heal.

When did you return?' said the Duchess

to Nanciebel's chaperon, a middle-aged
matron whose soul was too young for her
body, so that she often frisked when to sit
still would have been more becoming.

Only yesterday ; and of course I have
nothing to wear! So that really is a
match?' she added, looking at the receding
backs of the young people.

I believe so,' said the Duchess drily ;
but we must not lose sight of them ;' and
indeed she would not for a kingdom have
missed the precious, brief glimpse of Mr.
Eyre that Madcap's words had promised.

But she thought no lovers could have
moved more quickly at sight of each other
than did this father and daughter a minute
later, Madcap crying out :

Have you found him ?'

He looked cross and vexed at the question,
then past her at the Duchess, and

VOL. II, 33

went forward, and was never more fascinating
than in the ten minutes' walk that left
the others free to follow as they chose behind
them.

But when Mr. Eyre had put the Duchess
into her pony-carriage, and she had driven
away, happy as any love struck girl of
seventeen who comes trembling from her
first love-tryst, it seemed that she had
taken his good spirits with her, and after a
word or two to Nanciebel, left the young
people abruptly.

After that. Madcap herself was in haste to
go, and when she found that they would all
meet at the same ball that evening, said
that she and Nancy would make their plans
there for seeing something of each other.

But when she reached Curzon Street she
went straight to the library, where she
found Mr. Eyre sitting grim and silent at

his table, with that vexed look which
always strikes so sad and unfamiliar on
young eyes.

Dad,' she said timidly, as she stole up
behind him, and ventured to draw his head
to her shoulder, *' has anyone vexed you today
— have you been disappointed?'

The gentle touch, the loving voice,
moved him almost as potently as his wife's
had done when one of his dark fits overcame
him ; and surely this child was his
own not Gordon's yet, nor any other
man's.

But he did not say what his disappointment
had been as he kissed her, nor for
weeks did she again hear the name of Major
Methuen from her father's lips.

33—2

How sheet is the friars in its soft fauldiv! blossom
And sweet is the hill, wi' its mantle o' green ;
Yet fairer and sweeter, and dear to this bosom
Is young lovely Jessie, the flower of Dumblane.'

'ADCAP was not of the stuff that
easily makes women - friends ;
she had lived too entirely among
men to have much in common with the
average frivolous Miss, and the specimens
of girlhood she had seen in town did not
commend themselves to her.

But in Nanciebel she found a delightful
surprise ; for here was a nature at once profound
and sweet, as in mood she was alternately

grave and gay ; sprightly, wilful,
tender, she resembled an April day that
with all its little petulant showers never
suffers you to lose sight of heaven's blue
beyond, and like a sunbeam prisoned, she
moved lightly along the path that was yet
set about with many a prickly thorn of
trouble.

Father and mother were dead, sisters and
brothers she had none ; and her home was
made with a distant relation, whose bread
she ate, and whose charity clothed her.
The bread was good of its kind, the clothes
were carefully chosen to set her off to advantage
in that race which must be run by
all well-born maids — the race for a husband.
Lookers-on regarded her as one of the
fittest competitors in the field, for her body
matched the lovely spirit Within ; and
when seen . in public with Madcap, it was

hard to award the pain of beauty to
either.

Fire, courage, soul, showed in Madcap's
eyes — eyes of that rare iridescent hazel that
matches so magnificently with hair the
exact colour of a chestnut pod when fresh
stripped of its sheath ; the pure carnations
of her skin, the red of her mouth, and the
supple grace of her every movement bespoke
mental and bodily strong-th, so that
when she was present, she seemed to extinguish
other women's looks by the vitality
of her own, and in other faces men sought
in vain for the expression they found in
hers. In conversation she was not so
remarkable as in her appearance, and probably
no one who met her out would have
added the kudos of brains to her already
overflowing dower.

When, very early in the season, she discovered

that to attempt seriously to converse
with either her partners or the men who sat
next her at dinner produced only amazement
and discomfort in these gentlemen,
and that the women could be eloquent only
on the theme of their own and other folks'
clothes, she banished serious thought from
her lips, and but for common-sense would
have rushed into the airs of a female fool
rather than show any signs of wisdom.

So she tutored the flame in her eyes, and
learned small-talk with more labour than
Mr. Eyre's hardest lesson had ever cost
her, succeeding so well that more than one
fashionable fop found himself exquisitely
happy in her company, being under the
impression that her mental calibre was
inferior to his own.

Doune would sometimes stare, but
Nanciebel would laugh, for Madcap had

been as complete a revelation to her as
she had been to Madcap. Yet, however
intimate they became, their talk was of
books and chiffons, things and people ; but
of lovers and hearts, never a word.

Meanwhile, Mr. Eyre had not obtained
the interview that he coveted ; for though
he had called so persistently at Mrs.
Methuen's house as to feel almost like a
beggar who haunts a door-step, the answer
was always the same : Major Methuen was
'out'

By way of variation, he was sometimes
out of town, and his return indefinite ; or
he had just come in and just gone out
again ; though the miracle of it was, that
no one ever met him abroad, while he had
not showed at his club for months.

Mr. Eyre at first attributed this avoidance
of him to the man's well-known

aversion to any sort of society, and also
the dislike he was supposed to entertain
to any friends of the late Lord Lovel ;
but when even his letters were disregarded,
Mr. Eyre began to suspect that there was
some secret here, and became the more resolute
in his advance as the other retreated.

Could it be possible that in dying
Frank Lovel had dropped some words
that Methuen had picked up ? that this
dopp el-ganger actually held the clue that
Mr. Eyre believed to have been lost with
his friend ?

Yet he could have sworn that was Frank
himself whose eyes had met his ; and at
night and odd times, strange thoughts
would come into Mr. Eyre's mind, which
was rapidly passing into that seething, restless
state which in every instance had betokened
with him disaster.

Gradually he withdrew himself as much
as possible from politics, and even avoided
the society of everyone save Madcap, who
had lost some of her brightness as the
season advanced, yet for some curious
reason did not once urge her father to
leave town.

She had worn her train and performed
her courtesy so gracefully at the drawing-room,
as to win the Queen's commendation ;
had danced at Court balls (by special invitation),
and heard compliments from
courtly lips that had sometimes so displeased
her as to make her once flash
round and cry out :

^ Sir, do you know what women are f

She had gone everywhere, seen everything
under the best auspices ; and assuredly
a beautiful young girl in a fine
position has chances of seeing the panorama

of life in a way that her plainer, less well-placed
sisters never can . all the world
is en fete for her, everything turns to her
its best and brightest side; and never had
a country chit such a season, said the
envious women who looked on, though
more than one rejoiced to see her cheek
pale (while men seemed to find a new
loveliness in it), and hoped she smarted
inwardly from some heart wound that even
her ten thousand a year was not able to
cure.

But though Madcap might have jilted
Gordon fifty times over, and though that
temptation to flirt which might assail a
saint who went much into society had
once or twice gently threatened her, not
the greatest gossip in town could point
to any special man upon whom a favour
had been bestowed.

She could laugh, dance, even frolic a
little on occasion ; but that odious epithet
flirt ' never attached itself to her person,
and Gordon silently rejoiced as the weeks
slipped by, and still she had not said a
syllable to contradict that tacit acquiescence
in their engagement into which she had
lapsed.

Yet it was very clear that she never
missed an opportunity of throwing Nancy
Lovel and her cousin together, to Doune's
dissatisfaction, who, for the first time in
his life, found this sister as aowavatino^ as
the loveliest woman on earth can be, when
by accident she finds herself in the place
of a much-coveted somebody else.

The two girls were to be seen everywhere
together; but while Madcap was happy in
thinking the cousins were falling in love
with each other, Miss Xanciebel's heart

tarried behind with the brother and sister,
who followed, and only the blindness of
une idee fixe could have kept enlightenment
from the girl, who in this instance was
emphatically her own father's daughter.

She thought Doune's carelessness about
the House, his dislike to talk of that career
into which he had formerly thrown himself,
arose from a feeling of neglect towards herself,
and many a happy hour between him
and Nanciebel had she

Twinned of its sweet life''

in her eagerness to i've Gordon and his
cousin time in which to arrive at some
pleasant understanding.

Those who had watched Doune's brilliant
youth said that the young man was falling
ois lamentably from his high ambitions,
and pointed to his daily pleasuring as a

dishonour to those intellectual gifts that,
properly developed, should be of some
service to his country.

But perhaps in discovering that a young
woman in a long gown may be as sweet,
fresh, and lovable as a child in a short one,
Doune had included more than his sister,
and was unconsciously making his choice
between the good of love, the evil of ambition,
till one fine day all his honours and
all this brilliant hopes might fade before
the answer of a pair of blue eyes that had
grown shy of meeting his, but in which
he might find such happiness as had made
this father dead to ambition through over a
score of years.

But he was not sure of her, and at times,
Watching her open delight in Gordon's company,
he was half of opinion that Madcap
was right ; vet none the less his love-madness

grew, though but few signs of it
showed in his looks and bearing.

He did not know that for him were reserved
the timid glance, the gentle voice
(always more gentle for him than any
other), the ear ever on the alert for his
footstep; but one day Mr. Eyre's keen
eyes intercepted such a token, and he
smiled, well-pleased ; for of all earthly
blessings that he could have wished to
see heaped on his son's head, he would
have reckoned as the choicest — love, and
such a country life as he had lived with his
own bright Madcap by his side.

She shrieked and wept,
And both became her face ;
No ]posture could that angel form disgraces

ADCAP stood looking out of
window one morning, her hands
behind her back, thinking. It
was Derby Day, with a vividly blue sky
overhead, and a soft warm air blowing
that somehow set her thinking of the
country, and conjured up such visions of
coolness and space in a spot she wotted
of, that the more she thought of them, the
more delectable they appeared ; and presently
she turned quickly round, saying

I will in the tone of one who knows she
should have said ' I won't.' Then she sat
down and wrote a little note that ran
thus :

Come in a plain print frock — as plain
as can be — and come at once ;' and having
despatched a servant with it, and looked at
herself in the glass, returned to the window
just in time to see Gordon tooling his chestnuts
down the street, and looking as handsome
and happy a young fellow as the sun
ever shone on.

Why can't I love him ?' she thought,
as at sight of her he raised his hat, looking
happier than before, and in another minute
was standing beside her.

'Gordon,' she said, as he kissed her hand,
I'm going to the Derby.'

What !' exclaimed Gordon, retreating ;
but you are only joking.'

VOL. II. 34

I am going,' repeated j\Iadcap, nodding
decidedly ; ' and Nanciebel is going too.'

But it's not a fit place for you, Madcap.
Very few ladies go to the Derby nowadays ;
and, indeed, I shouldn't like to take you.'

Then I shall drive the chestnuts myself,'
said Madcap gravely ; ' I'm sure I could if
I tried. And you can sit beside me, you
know — incase of accident,' she added, looking
at him from head to foot, and thinking
how Avell his racing get-up became him.
You look very nice,' she said. ' How
cool that alpaca must be ! And how do
you like my Derby costume?' she added,
revolving slowly before him, and holding-out
her skirts with both hands.

She had on a white pique gown, buttoned
to the throat over a linen collar, and not a
frill, flounce, or furbelow anywhere visible ;
but the burnished satin of her hair, the

rich hues upon cheek lip, and the vivid
hazel of her eyes, made her seem to glow
with life and colour ; and Gordon longed
to snatch her in his arms, and kiss her, ashe
said :

What does it matter how you dress,
Madcap? But I have got to pick up the
other fellows, and I am late as it is.'

Go and pick them up, then come
straight back here,' said Madcap ; ' Fancies
and I will be ready.'

!Not she,' said the young man ; ' she
knows better than to do anything so — so
fast ; besides, she's my cousin, and I shall
tell her I won't take her.'

Are you so sure of her ?' said Madcap,
looking delighted ; ' and does she do all
you tell her ? Wait till you have got
mar '

She stopped abruptly.

34—2

What was that?' said Gordon, who was
not wholly ignorant of Madcap's schemes.

Oh, nothing ! Now go and pick up
your men, and come back here as quickly
as possible — or we shall miss all the best
of the morning. Now go ! and if you are
not here with the coach in an hour, I won't
go out on it once more this season !'

Then Gordon went, and Madcap went off
to her father.

Dad,' she said, ' I am going with 
to sit under the trees all day. Won't
you come too ?'

Her heart sank as she noticed hoar worn
and grey he looked ; and she added wistfully,
' Would you like to sro home ?' then
held her breath for fear he would answer
Yes.'

Not till I have found that fellow.' said
Mr. Eyre, his face darkening ; ' so long ashe

remains in toAvn, so long will I ; and
once he quits his cowardly hiding, and
takes to the open, I will come up with him :
he cannot escape me for ever. But off with
you, child!' and he kissed her, and resumed
his book.

Madcap left her high spirits behind her
as she climbed the stairs to Lady Ann, who
was a little indisposed that morning, and
had breakfasted in her room, but was now
up and dressed, and ready to hear the
object of Madcap's visit.

At first she was impracticable ; for she
quite agreed with Gordon that ' on the
Derby Day ladies were best at home ; but
at last she allowed herself to be persuaded,
especially as she had long been wanting an
opportunity to visit a friend who lived at
Hampton Court Palace.

So that when Gordon returned within

VOL. II. 34 — 3

the hour all were ready, as Madcap had
foretold ; and never, sure, was a Derby Day
coach graced by two maids with simpler
frocks and lovelier faces — or so thought the
men, and so thought all those (and they
were many) who on that day beheld them.

h:ND OF VOL

BILLING AND bONS, riilNTEKS, LiUILDKORD.

G., C. d- Co.

-M

$^5f

\ Z

/

\

BY

HELEN Matters,

AUTHOR OF ' COMIN' THRO' THE RYE,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

iSttblisIurs in ordinary to ^cr Jtajcstfi the ^nctn.
1884.

[All Bights Reserved.]

BOOK HI,— continued.

VOL. HI. 35

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/eyresacquittalse03mathe

v. 3

CHAPTER VI.

nature never did betray the heart that loved her.'

Some with me on tiptoe beneath
the trees that poor Wolsey
planted for the ultimate benefit
of a thankless king, till Ave are close to
the ha-ha that divides us from a meadow
more glorious with its buttercups than
was ever cloth-of-gold ; turn your back
on the red-brick house that blinks beyond
in the sunshine, then choose the trunk
that shall best afibrd you its lusty support,
and look around you.

35—2

Coolness, space, and light are here ; light,
that falls in glory only to be broken into
trembling patches by the quick dance of
the shadow-leaves reflected from above ;
space, that seems to know no limit as your
eye sweeps the perspective of green aisles
to right and left ; and coolness so pure
and deep as to soothe the senses like a
charm, and breathe into them a mere physical
sense of rest that is in itself an exquisite
joy.

Out yonder the world goes by, yet sofar
away that its echo hardly reaches you
. . . and between you and it lies a carpet
of white and red, flung royally down by
the chestnuts as their proud beauty waned
. . . nearer yet, in a golden slant of sunshine,
falls a shower of green rain, only no
rain ever dropped half so coyly, so beautifully,
or wore so fine a tint, for these are

the scattering from the blossomed Uses
overhead, breathing sweetness as they fall,
and adding the one touch that crowns and
makes perfect this most perfect hour and
scene.

Sound there is none, save the faint low
murmur given out by the boughs, and that
vaguely resembles the far-off sob of ocean
(but the ear must be keen that will hear it),
and the distant note of a cuckoo who lives
in the grove yonder, and who is heard year
after year, and far into the spring, long
after cuckoo-flowers have come and gone,
and the anemones with which his retreat
is speckled.

This is heaven,' says a girl's voice,
breaking the stillness ; but the voice is so
sweet that no note of discord with the scene
is sounded.

No, it is not heaven, but it is peace,'

answers another voice, in which no peace is,
but a curious yearning, as though an unsatisfied
heart speaks in it, and something
more than peace is needed to content
her.

Has anyone vexed you ?' says the first
voice gently.

Xo one. Yet I am restless — out of
sorts. This very silence frets me, and I
am no happier here than if I lead stayed at
home.'

Are you anxious about your father ?'

Not more than usual.'

'Then your trouble is in your OAvn heart.
Why do you look sad even in the midst of
your brightest triumphs, and when even
envy cannot discover a flaw in your lot ?'

Am I so triumphant ?' said the other
voice. ' Listen. It was a custom among
the Romans, on the occasion of a great

victory, to appoint three especial Iioikhu-s
to the victor. The first lionoiii*. that the
purple should meet the conqueror with :acclamations
and (.'verv other te.<tini()ii\ oi*
pleasure ; the second, that all the captives,
bound hand and foot, should attend the
victor's chariot ; the third honour, that,
entrapped in the mantle <jf Jupiter, he
should sit upon a triumphal cai', dra^vu by
to in white horses, and be thus brought to
the capitol. IVut lest these exalted rcAvards
should swell the heart, and snake the
favourite of fortune foi-get his birth and
mortal character, three grievances vere
attached to them. First, a slave sat ou his
light hand in the chariot, which served to
hint that poverty and unmerited degradation
were no bars to the subsequent attainment
of the highest dignities. The second
iji'ievance was, that the slave >hoidd inflict

upon him several severe blows to abate
the ba light iiiess which the applause of his
countrymen might tend to excite, at the
same time saying to him in Greek : '' KnoA\'
thyself ! and permit not tb* exaltation tc>
make thee proud. Look behind thee, and
remember that thou art mortal." The third
grievance was this, that free license was
given upon that day of triumph to utter the
most galling reproaches and the inmost
cutting sarcasms.'

The voice ceased : there vas a pause
before the other said :

And what are your three humiliations?'

I have not three, but one '

'Will you tell it me?'

No.'

'But T will guess even though you 1)e
angry. You do not love Gordon because
\'ou love some one else.'

Would that be an occasion for humiliation

?'

^ Yes, if— if '

He did not love me ? You are right.
Well, he does not love me, and I do not
love him ; the idea is impossible. A child
may have a strong affection for a — a man,
but that is not love

You are not a child now.'

I am still a child to him, for he never
thought of me as any other.'

Do you see him often?'

1 see him never.'

You have not seen him once since }'ou
were a child ?'

Once.'

You will see him again ?'

T do not know. That is part of my
humiliation — that he could see me to-day,
tomorrow, and every day, if he so willed.'

And were you quite a child ?'

I was fifteen.'

Then you were a woman. And perhaps
. . perhaps he loves you too.'

sand now that you know this, and I
brought you here ]purposely to tell you —
perhaps you will he kind to Gordon — you
will marry him, and you will he happy.'

And Gordon — will he be haj^py too ?'

You lo\'e him ; you cannot help making
him hapj^y in the end.'

A soft ripple of laughter blended with,
rather than silenced, the pause that followed ;
then two young faces turned, and — the one
pale, the other rosy-red — looked at each
other.

N"anciebel, you have deceived me. It is
not Gordon after all.'

Yes — it is not Gordon.'

Who is it, then ?'

Our confidences would be unequal.
Tell me first of him''

He is a myth — a delusion. The ghost
of something I worshipped from tb.e time
1 was old enough to understand . . . and
after all, I believe this fancy to be not
love, but jnire memory and that I should
find his charm gone if I saw him often in
the fresh. And you — have you too such
memories of him T

His presence is sweeter to me than any
memory of him could be.'

So you see him — and yet I have never
surprised a sign of love in you for
anyone but Gordon. Will you marry
him?'

If he asks me.'

You blush — ^^et your voice is steady,
your eyes are fearless. You have nothing
to fear because — he loves you.'

In the silence that followed, one of the
girls turned her head aside, but the answer
had been mutely given.

The voices ceased. There lead not been
a single note of passion in the dialogue ;
nature had not been outraged by a single
false or jarring note ; softly the young
maidens' love-confidences had sunk into the
peace around, and made it human.

^A lylous iiiaii noticing Providence, the spirit of the
rose thus addressed him : " Bo I not animate a beautiful
plant . . . arid where do yoic find me ? Amongst thorns.
Bid they do not sting me ; they protect and give me sap.
This thine enemies do for thee : and should not thy spirit
he firmer than that of a frail flower V '

UT yonder the world and his
wife scurry, skip, and amble by,
never pausing to cast a kick to
right or left, nor dream of pausing to turn
aside and explore the shade and coolness of
these fragrant alleys and silent glades ; all
are bent on reaching the end of the avenue,
and pursuing those pleasures beyond that

are so much less satisfying than those they
are leaving behind.

The last of the coaches passed an hour
ago, and it is the humbler holiday-makers
now who fill every description of vehicle,
from the barouche down to the donkey -
cart, while, happiest of all, the tricyclists
flash in and out, witJi that delightful look of
ease and swiftness which comes nearer than
any other exercise to the actual sensation
of flying.

I do not know a prettier sight than two
young lovers thus seated side by side, he in
his close-fitting suit of grey, with stalwart
legs well shown, and she with little feet
peeping out, that do their work as deftly as
his — only both must bloom with good
looks, both must work loyally, and as if
with but one impulse between them ; and I
think her frock should be white and plain

descending no lower than lier ankles, and
round lier neck and straw hat she should
Aver a turquoise-blue ribbon.

Why should not such a }>air go a-honey-
mooning some day, as they have gone
a-courting all this spring, in their graceful
little carriage, With the tinkle of their bell
for Averting-chimes behind them ? Is she
not already, by the mere sharing of his toil,
learning to be his help-mate in more senses
than one ? So, Avhen I see such a blithe
young pair, I Apish them God-speed in my
heart, and my good-ashes follow the
flashing Wheels as they dwindle in my

sight.

Look at that oil pair yonder, A\dio once
may have ridden side by side, but are now
on foot. See how he hands her down the
slope, more tenderly', more gently' uoaa^ than
perchance he Avould have done the da' he

married her. He hides even the beauty of
the chestnuts from her — in his wrinkled face
alone she hinds the highest beauty ; and the
look that passes between them is lovely, as
ixrm in arm they go, tottering and leaning
on each other, along the way.

Look in a woman's face for the character
of her husband ; in the faces of her children
for lier own.

A man is toiling along with his hurdy-gurdy
on his back, and across its top a
little child, sound asleep.

Ah ! that sleeping child brings many a
penny to the little ugly father, who may bea
rogue and a vagabond, but who loves his
child, and keeps him warm and rosy, while
he himself is in tatters, and always more
than half starved.

I wonder what invisible cause has set
that blue shawled, vulgar woman in yon

magnificent carriage, and placed on foot
and dressed in cotton the beautiful one
whose beauty is as royal as it is sweet ?

I wonder what home-tyrant has brought
that hopeless look of sadness into the eyes
and mouth of the woman who half hides
them with the handful of dog-roses over
which she leans ? But in her hand they
will wither and close, as perhaps her heart
has done under a cruel grasp. . . Yet if
to-night she set them, howsoever faded, ina
bowl of Vater on her window-sill, where
the air and wind can beat on them all
night, in the morning, lo ! there will be a
cluster of lovely wide-opened eyes, and
on the pink and white breasts bared in
wild freshness to the breeze, perchance a
glistening of rain drops, through which the
leaves will shine translucent, yielding up a
scent exquisite, intangible, the very spirit

VOL. III. 36

of the flower, that has made its clwelhng
here rather than in the heart of the proud
garden rose, that stiffly closes her perfumes
within her, and stifles even as she blows.

So to thee, poor soul, may chance such a
miracle; so may thy bruised heart yet revive
and unfold itself to the healing influence of
tenderness and hope ; so, too, may thy soul
become ' a cup of thanksgiving full of fragrance,
and an offering of sweetest incense
to the Lord

Here come a pair of lovers on foot ; both
are shabby, and both are plain ; but the
man looks a churl, and probably is one.
Yet despise her not for that air of loving-pride,
of proprietorship in him as she struts
beside him ; to her he is no churl, for he
has taught her the mystery of love ; and.
ignoble as he may be, through him has
come to her a revelation of happiness, and

so poor a cause has been as potent to transform
her life, to transfigure its dull routine,
as if he were beautiful as one of the gods of
old. She will not forget this — no woman
ever does ; come what will, she remembers
that he made her blank life a full one, and
though he become the murmuring father of
her children, and a sullen, neglectful spouse,
to her he will always be the lover of her
youth, and however she may come to scorn
and despise him, yet the thousand links that
bind her to him will never be broken. She
will cling to her crooked shilling to her life's
end, and strive to hide its crookedness from
all eyes but her own.

Look at that little barefooted urchin,
with the bright curly crown outside his
scanty, brimless hat ; the happiest heart
here to-day, till half-an-hour ago, when he
grew hungry, but begged and begged

36—2

behind the carriages in vain. But see — his
eyes brighten, he begins to run, flitting
light as thistledown over the grass till he
has reached one of the last trees next the
ha-ha ; and there he pauses, his blue eyes
fixed on a white cloth, upon which is laid a
luncheon for two young ladies — a luncheon
that has been carefully catered for by six
young men.

A bottle of Most and two of soda, with
a tiny one of liqueur, a lobster mayonnaise,
a chicken, a tongue, a roll of Avhite bread,
a pat of butter, a dish of strawberries and
another of cherries — and it is at the cherries
that the boy, in spite of his hunger, is
looking.

Give him some,' says the girl who has
been actions as butler, and is now reofardino-
her arrangements with some satisfaction ;
he must be a youth of taste to prefer being

under these trees to watching the crowd go
by out yonder !'

I am afraid he sav the cloth afar off,'
said Nanciebel, as she emptied half the
cherries into the boy's chubby hands, getting
a duck of the head by way of thanks
as he retreated.

Cherries won't satisfy me said Madcap
gravely, as she sat down cross-legged and
began to cut bread ; ' I never was so hungry
in my life.'

^ It was a long drive down,' said Fancies
attacking the chicken on her knees ;
you took Gordon a good deal out of his
way by your freak. But how delighted he
was to find that he had not got to take us
to the Derby, after all !'

And we have got the best of it,' said
Madcap, pausing in her occupation to
glance up at the boughs that hung all their

leaves outwards like a thousand mimic
flags ; ' and none could wish a better day
on which to be born, to be married, or to
die

Ko,' said Nanciebel, and sighed very
gently as she set Madcap's plate before
her.

So you can sigh for him?' said Madcap;
then you do not love him very much.'

But you are hungry, and so you do not
love him very much.'

And I am thirsty, too,' said Madcap
presently, when her pangs had somewhat
subsided, and looking round for the nippers,
that, alas 1 the masculine forethought, which
had forgotten nothing else, had altogether
omitted to furnish.

If only we had a pair of scissors !' exclaimed
both girls together, and looking at
the sparkling wine, that now, unattainable,

appeared absolutely indispensable to their
happiness.

We could get a corkscrew at the
lodge-gates,' said Nanciebel, jumping up,
'and I'll run all the way there and
back !'

^ Don't,' said Madcap \ ' it is too hot.
Couldn't we send the infant?' she added,
pointing to the urchin, who, having eaten
his cherries, showed his gratitude by a
lively sense of favours to come, and in
readiness had seated himself at no great
distance on the grass.

They would not lend it him,' said
Nancy ; and was gone even as she spoke,
returning in less than sixty seconds, waving
a pocket corkscrew triumphantly above her
head.

Nancy !' cried Madcap, gasping with
amazement, ' are you a witch, or am I

dreaming? You have gone to the lodge and
come back in less than a minute !'

Didn't you see ? Perhaps there was a
tree between; but I've done an awful thing!'

You asked some one to lend it you ?'
said Madcap, who was now struggling with
the wire, and making those faces with
which ladies usually embellish the drawing
of a cork, especially when there is a chance
of its smiting them on the nose. ' It's
coming! take care — oh!' and she sat down
(as a woman always does) when the cork
flew out, and did not recover from the shock
till half the amber fluid had foamed itself
away.

More properly speaking, I borrowed it,'
said Nanciebel, as they sat down again with
their glasses beside them ; ' it was not
very nice thing for a young lady to ask for,
was it? He looked a little astonished!'

It was a man ?' said Madcap, a little
startled. ' What would Lady Ann say ?
I hope it was an old one?'

Oh, quite old ! and as sober as a judge.
He was marching along so sedately that I
knew he was to be trusted, so I stopped
and said, " Oh, sir ! could you lend me a
pocket-knife, or a corkscrew?" '

This is both,' said Madcap, taking it in
her hand ; ' all that is not steel is silver.
He must be of a confiding temper to trust
it with you. Run back with it quick, before
he repents of his guilelessness, and comes
to look for it himself!'

He lent it me for half-an-hour,' said
Miss Nanciebel, with great sang-froid ; ' he
said, "It is quite at your service, and
you can give it me back in half-an-hour's
time, when I shall be returning this way."
I dropped him a curtsey and vanished.'

Which way did he go ?'

Towards the Court. How came you to
miss seeing him? He was not a hundred
yards away from you.'

I was feeding the Arab. And now for
our strawberries. Alack ! those men forgot
the cream, but here is the sugar.'

'Madcap!'

'Nancy!'

I told you the corkscrew man was
sedate ?'

Yes.'

But I didn't tell you he was the handsomest
man I ever saw in my life !'

Handsomer than your — invisible
lover?'

Much. Only he is fair, and I admire —
never mind what I admire!'

I expect this handsomest man of all is
a mere barber s block. I think it would

have been better, after all, if you had gone
to the lodge.'

I told you I had done an awful thing,'
said Nanciebel, hanging her head. ' But,
indeed, I saw his sedateness first, and his
beauty afterwards ; and I don't believe,
from the way he looked at me, that he
knew whether I was a girl or a boy !'

Madcap had finished her strawberries
now, and with elbow on knee, and chin
in hand, looked at Nanciebel, considering.


Why does a young woman look so much
more lovely in the open air, in sunshine
or in shadow, than in chamber or ballroom,
howsoever beautifully bedecked?

Perhaps because out of doors she is in
the midst of life, movement, light ; because
Nature in her most sportive mood finds
an echo in her grace, and sees her every

magical effect outdone in the changes,
quick as shadows, bright as sunbeams, that
will succeed each other in a young and
tenderly sensitive girl-face.

^ You are lovely, Nanciebel!' said Madcap
at last ; ' I never knew how lovely till
to-day. The man must be insensible who
could look at you as if you were a
boy;

The half-hour will be up directly,' said
Nanciebel, with some alarm in her blue
eyes, as she looked at her watch ; ' had I
not better go and wait at the exact place
where I met him ? If not, he might take
the liberty of coming on here !'

He has the right to claim his property,'
said Madcap, sitting up very erect.
'Bat you need not trouble yourself about
it, for sam going to give him back the
corkscrew.'

Oh, Madcap ! Well, he will look at
you /'

I mean to make him. If only Lady
Ann could see us ! or Gordon ! or Doune !'

Would — would Doune be angry ?' said
Miss Nanciebel timidly, and with some of
her colour flitting away.

He would have a fit ! And now for
the handsomest man of all !' and she sprang
up.

But how will you know him ? As you
say, probably our standard of good looks
differs.'

Then you must come too. We will
both hide behind a tree, and when you see
him coming, you will tell me. Then I
shall step forward and say, " Thank you,
sir!" — that is to say. if he is not a barber's
block. But I should like to oivc him a
little fright, just to shake his sedateness.'

What will you do ?'

Set that urchin at the head of our
feast, with all the remaining eatables within
reach, and forbid him to stir. We will
remain in hiding after the corkscrew man
comes. He will look around — see nobody
then discover our white cloth, which he
will probably approach, expecting to find
his property upon it. When he has finally
made up his mind that you are a dishonourable
person, he will walk away, and I shall
run after him.'

• He's taken off the scarlet coat
Bedecked with shining' gold.
And has put on the horseman's coat
To keep himfrae the cold.'

LITTLE rosy urchin, with his
crown of gold above his head,
sat like a king all alone at
the feast spread out before him, his back
to the bole of a tree, and sound asleep, with
a half eaten strawberry in his hand.

By his side leaned a partly emptied
champagne bottle, out of which he had
probably tasted, with instant soporific results
; and beside it lay a gossamer handkerchief,

in one corner of which was
embroidered a somewhat uncommon name.

Out of sight, but not far away, two girls
squeezed themselves closely against a trunk
that would easily have hidden six ; and one
was impatient from waiting, and angry
with herself at having lapsed into an undignified
frolic, and the other was bent on
playing her companion a trick.

He has probably forgotten all about it.
or he wants to punish you for accosting
him, and giving him the trouble of coming-back,'
said Madcap indignantly; 'and any
moment the coach may be in the avenue,
or Lady Ann appear and find us in this
ridiculous situation!'

Look !' exclaimed Nanciebel, in a low
voice, and peeping in the direction of the
Court, as they had both done since they
took up their station ; ' don't you see a

man coming — tall, and carrying himself
well — and — and very well dressed?'

*So well dressed said Madcap drily, 'that
he would look more a gentleman if he were
in rags. Your handsome man is not only
a barber's block, he is also a tailor's
dummy! Here, take it!' and she pushed
the silver corkscrew into NanciebeFs hand.

At the same moment a gentleman who
had been quietly approaching from the
opposite direction came to a halt before
the spread cloth with a sleeping urchin at
its head, and he smiled a little, as one
amused ; for his quick eye soon informed
him that two persons, without reckoning
the present ruler of the feast, had lunched
there but a very short time ago.

A pair of lovers, he supposed, who
were now quietly strolling in one of the
distant glades, quite forgetful of this i)ro-

VOL. III. 37

party and him ? She had left some of hers
behind, he thought, as he stooped and
picked up the handkerchief that lay on
the ground, half ashamed of his curiosity,
especially as its supposed owner had created
no curiosity in him whatever.

It was at this moment that Nanciebel
turned and saw him, while Madcap, washing
her hands of all further responsibility
in the matter, quitted her hiding, and turned
her face to one of the long arcades, whose
end is only visible by the patch of golden
sunlight that lies beyond.

The superb one was close at hand ; in
the background a man was staring at the
corner of a girl's pocket-handkerchief, as
if rooted to the spot by the fascination
of the sight. Madcap's back was slowly
disappearing, and ISTanciebel was fain to
confess that her trick had failed.

Should she call her back? She Avould
not come ; and, after all, the whole escapade
was in very bad taste, and it was just as
well that this stranger should suppose he
had seen only one forward girl that day —
not two.

But as she moved slowly towards him,
she saw him turn suddenly away — only,
where was the handkerchief?

There had been colour enough in her
face before, but as she ran, it rose in ever
warmer waves, so that she glowed like a
rose when, all out of breath with haste,
she at last came up with his long strides,
and in a very gentle voice faltered out :

^ Your corkscrew, sir!'

He turned then, looking not at, but
beyond her, his right hand hidden in his
breast.

Thank you,' he said, as his roving,

37—2

eager eyes came back to her face with a
look of disappointment and unwilling relief
curiously blended.

How could she have called this man
sedate ? Nanciebel wondered. His good
looks were the least part of his charm ;
for a splendid soul looked out of his eyes,
and spoke in every expression of his
features.

And so now will you give me back
the handkerchief, please?' said Nanciebel
gravely.

He started and coloured.

So you were in hiding and saw me,'
he said ; ' and I cannot deny the theft.
But I meant you to keep what you borrowed
of me in its place. My reason for
stealing it was because I found on it the
name — the name '

He paused, then said abruptly :

'It is a very uncommon one ; yet it
appears to be yours.'

No, it is not mine said Nanciebel, feeling
horror at herself for extending the
colloquy by a single unnecessary word.
I never knew but one person of that name
Madcap Eyre ; and the handkerchief is
hers.'

She is here to-day ?' said the stranger,
the blood leaping to his brow; ' A^r^— sand
with you ?'

Yes,' said Nanciebel, a little coldly ;
'and now I will wish j^'ou good-afternoon,
and thank you.'

She was gone before he could say another
syllable, and he was left alone, standing
with throbbing heart and madly-beating
pulses, his hands clenched in the struggle
betwixt duty and inclination that Alas going
forward in his breast.

Through the trees he saw Nanciebel
on her knees busy With packing up the
plates and dishes, while the chief consumer
of the feast slumbered peacefully on ;
and without stirring, his eager eyes roved
hither and thither in search of the white
flutter of a woman's gown.

How baffling were the trees ! how almost
hopeless a search for anyone beneath them,
since you might pass within a yard of what
you sought, but with the stout body of a
monarch of the woods between you !

Yet desire, longing, the passionate need
that cried out in him for food, however
meagre, urged him ^vith irresistible force
into the way of temptation, and in another
minute he was treading it with resolute,
swift steps, leaving Nanciebel far behind,
and fully engrossed with her task.

Madcap had wandered on, without taking

much count of time ; her hat was slung on
her arm, she was walking with head thrown
back, and face lifted to the glories overhead,
when she felt, rather than heard, a step
close behind her.

Xanciebel,' she said, ' I have had a surfeit
of beauty to-day that I think will last
me a long while — almost until I get back to
Lovel woods.'

She got no answer, only between her
gaze and the boughs through which the
blue looked came a pair of eyes every
whit as blue as the sky, and Madcap's
charming chin came down suddenly, and
all the colour went out of her cheeks
as she saw who it was that stood before
her.

'Madcap!' he said — ' Madcap f . . . the
name rushing out straight from the heart,
and bringing with it all the love it had

gathered about it there in one tumultuous
flood of joy.

So he had not forgotten her ; it had been
through no lack of memory that he had
avoided her ; and the happy colour was all
back in Madcap's face, as, with her hand
still in his, she looked up at him.

You are glad to see me?' she said.

'Yes, I am glad ;' but even as he spoke
some of the fire died out of his eyes, as
though subdued by a violent inward efibrt,
and the vehemence of his voice suddenly
sobered to one of mere affection as he let
her hand go.

Somehow Madcap knew then that this
moment, the full happiness of which she
had not tasted, had escaped her, yet she
smiled as she said :

Are we never to meet anywhere save ina
wood ?'

I spend a great deal of my tinge here
he said, and with every word the change in
his tone seemed to increase, and deny the
passion with which he had called on her
name ; ' whenever I am able to leave my
mother I make straight for trees, and try
and fancy myself once more at Lovel.'

Have you the late Lord Lovel's tastes
as well as his features?' said Madcap, a
little coldly.

Yes ; our tastes, inclinations, pursuits
were identical.'

Yet I never heard of Frank Lovel
running away from, and almost hiding himself
from a man whom he had condemned
unheard, and to whom he refused the opportunity
of explanation!' said Madcap,
inwardly quaking at the effect of her Avoids.

And which I will refuse as long as I
have breath in my body,' said Major

Methuen, nth no more shame in his look
and voice than if he uttered the noblest
sentiments heart can applaud.

You have some reason — some mad
reason said Madcap, resolved to push his
patience to its utmost limits, ' for your
hatred of my father ; but it seems that he
is not singular in being the object of your
aversion, for all your old friends, and all
Lord Lovel's friends, you shun.'

That is true.'

You even shun a nearer friend — a child-friend,'
said Madcap, in a low voice ; ' and
how can she have offended you ?'

I never had such a friend.'

You had, for I was that friend.'

But you were not a child ; you were
fifteen years old, and a woman.'

Then you might have remembered meas
a Avoman.'

Have I forgotten you?'

Entirely. It is by an accident only that
you are forced to address me to-day.'

I deliberately followed you.'

What — from town?'

No ; I picked up your handkerchief '

Accident again!'

And stole it. I was detected by a
young lady who had borrowed a corkscrew
'

What ! it was you — and you were close
to me twice over, ad I never knew it?'

The girl had stopped short, her changing
colour, her brilliant eyes, betraying her excitement
; but in a second she had controlled
it, and was walking quietly beside
him.

Her words, her look, had startled him —
but only for a moment. True, she remembered
him kindly, ibndly even, as her

friend (and the heart of a young girl is
tenacious of her friendships, whether for
man or Avoman), but he was no more to her
than that : and was not her eno^ao^ement
with Lord Lovel one of the open secrets of
the town?

Let us sit down,' said Major Methuen ;
and without a single backward thought of
Nanciebel, of a waiting coach, or of outraged
Lady Ann, Madcap leaned her back
to the tree, and gave herself up to the joy
of the present hour.

Had you not an idea that chestnuts had
some red in them ?' she said, picking up a
column of chestnut blossom that some rude
hand had plucked, then cast down here to
wither ; ' when I was quite young, such
was my fixed belief Well, to-day I have
found out my mistake. It is only when
the flowers are fading that the red appears !'

Do you remember the lecture you once
read me of your country art ?' lie said.

'Do you?'

Yes. Will you read me another?'

He was sitting a little behind her, but so
placed that, himself unobserved, he could
watch each change of her face.

No,' she said ; then added, as one
thinking aloud : ' so Job died happy, after
all ; he did think you to be his " little
Master Frank." '

'Who told you that?' exclaimed Major
Methuen, in a startled voice.

Was it not written on his face?' said
Madcap, half looking round, ' and are you
not Frank Lovel's doppel-gdnger^ and constantly
mistaken for him by those Who do
not know that he is dead ?'

I told you that three years ago,' lie
said, with a chafed ring in his voice ;

that is one reason why I go abroad so
seldom.'

You could not wish to resemble a better
man,' said Madcap, a little proudly ; ' but
the resemblance must be extraordinary, for
even my father thought he recognised you
as Frank.'

And he said ' exclaimed Major

Methuen, as if the words were irresistibly
forced from him.

That it was his friend's very self in the
flesh ; and instantly pursued you till reason
convinced him of his mistake. At dinner
that night we heard of the strange resemblance
you bore to the late Lord Lovel, and
my father resolved to see you — with the
admirable results you are aware of.'

I shall not try his patience much
longer,' he said quietly. ' Mrs. Methuen
is dying fast, and her death will release

me from the necessity of remaining in
town — or in England. Your father will
scarcely think it necessary to follow me
abroad

Was there a note of fear in his voice —
a note that brought the hot colour to
Madcap's cheek, and a sudden consciousness
of shame that she was sitting herein
friendly converse with a man who was
avowedly her father's enemy ? But her
hottest shame was for him ; and perhaps
Major Methuen knew it as he watched the
averted face, the exquisite nape of a neck
that he would have given all he possessed
on earth to have the right to kiss.

Suddenly she turned, and by the glow
in her face, the warmth in her eye, he sav
that some strong impulse was urging her
to speak.

What is between you ?' she said. ' You

are both good — both honourable; for you
are — }'0u must be that, no matter how you
may try to assume a shameful part. You
both loved Frank : if only for that, and
your likeness to him, we Eyres must ' (her
voice faltered) ' love you ; and shall a miserable
misunderstanding, that could be set
to rights in ^nq minutes of face-to-face
talk, keep you away from us when we
could be so — happy together?'

Gradually her voice had dwindled from
the eagerness with which she began her
plea to a spiritless and scarcely audible
tone; for in his eyes she saw that which
no words of hers could overcome, even
though his heart might break beneath his
stubborn will.

Do not talk of me,' he said, ' but yourself
I watch you often, myself unseen,
and I find you as unspoiled by admiration.

as simple in your manners, as when I first
saw you in the wood. And I do not think
there is any better-hated young man in
town than Gordon Lovel.'

Why is he so well hated V said Madcap ;
and from her voice one might have thought
she had tears in her eyes.

Because he is your future husband.'

There was a harsh note of envy and
bitterness in the way he uttered the words
that made Madcap turn, and so he saw
those shining eyes that had filled indeed,
but for him.

You love him T

As she turned her head aside, he seemed
to see trembling in her all the possibilities
of such a woman as God and Nature have
combined to make beautiful, and keep pure
. . and was such an one to go as priceless
dower to a man who might love but could

VOL. III. 38

never understand her ? For if a woman
cannot raise her husband to her own level,
then she must stoop to his ; and the more
of happiness she brings him, the farther will
she recede from the splendid promise of her
youth.

Your silence gives assent,' said Major
Methuen ; and none could have told from
his look that in the moments when he
strained heart and ear for a reply, he had
lived an eternity ; ' and you should be
happy, for his devotion to you is one of
the proverbs of the season.'

He gives me his time,' said Madcap,
who sat very cold and still, with hands
tight-locked on her lap ; ' and is there any
surer sign than that ?'

" A man may give money because he is
profuse ; he may be violently fond because
he is of a sanguine disposition ; but if he

gives me his time, lie gives me an unquestionable
proof of my being in full
possession of his heart," or so says a great
writer. And is your father satisfied with the
match V added Major Methuen abruptly.

There is the coach !' said Madcap, starting
up ; ' and actually there is Lady Ann
on it. They must have stopped at the
Palace, and that is why Gordon is so late.
Good-bye !' and without offering her hand,
with only one brief glance, in which every
detail of his looks stamped itself on her
memory, she turned, and went swiftly away.

Where she had left him, he stood watching
the beautiful young shape, the chestnut
head as bright as the sunbeams that flecked
it, until she had passed out of sight.
Then, shifting his position, he was able to
sec the coach stop, and two figures in white
ascend.

38—2

Did one of them turn her head and look
back as the coach swept out at the lodge -
gates ? T am inclined to think that she
did ; but the man who threw himself face
downwards on the grass where she had so
lately sat beside him, doubted.

Chapter IX.

She luadna hae a Lowland laird,

Nor be an English lady ;
But she ivan gang id' Duncan Gramme,

And roi her in his plaidieJ

NE morning in late June, Gordon
read out at Breakfast the announcement
of Mrs. Methuen's
death on the preceding day but one, and
Madcap trembled ; but no one looked at
her, as Mr. Eyre, starting up and exclaiming,
' He cannot be out this time !' left the
room, and, almost immediately after, the
house.

Poor chap I he'll be more cracked than

ever now,' said Gordon cheerfully ; ' but
what on earth can he mean by dodging the
father these three months ?'

But Madcap said nothing ; only watched
her opportunity to steal away to her father's
study, where she sat down to restlessly
await his return.

How hard the thorn of deceit pricked
her heart as she sat there, and thought
of the useless quest upon which her father
had departed . . . why had she not said
to him long ago, ' He is your enemy ' 1 and,
alas ! alas 1 was not this the reason of her
holding back the fact, that she could not
add, ' and your enemy is mine ' f

Not a man had attracted her heart or
fancy through all the perilous chances of
such a season as a fairy princess might have
bestowed on her god-child ; not a lover who
could tempt her to lift her eyes so high as

to discover his charms or failings ; for at
the root of all her coldness lay the old
reason, and ' But not like my Beverley /'
was her unconscious thought, as, one after
another, her suitors (some for pure love's
sake, some for greed, but all seeking her
with the more zest, knowing her to be forbidden
fruit) failed to efface an image
graven on her heart nigh on three years
ago.

Long ago she had forgiven Major
Methuen's injustice to her father, for the
room of it had been loyalty to his friend
Lord Lovel, and however Frank might
have misunderstood Mr. Eyre, he was her
hero still, and her sense of faithfulness
could appreciate even an abuse of such
partisanship ; but her hope of a good
understanding between Major Methuen and
her father had dwindled and waned with

the season, and the good-bye at the cowslip-gate
had come to sound in her ears like a
farewell spoken from a death-bed.

At her thoughts, she covered her face
with her hands, and then she sighed, because
she dared not cry ; and in the midst
of her fears Mr. Eyre Crime in, his brow
more dark with anger than she had ever
seen it.

The man is out, as usual,' he said ; ' and
his mother's remains are already removed
to the country for burial, says the varlet
who has shut the door fifty times in my
face, while his master sets out for abroad
immediately. But, by Heaven, I'll bring
him to book before he leaves ! If Frank
escaped me — if others have defied me —
this man shall not !'

But even as he spoke, he felt the impotence
of the will that had so frequently

failed him, and turned from Madcap with a
gesture that startled her with its violence,
as coming from so usually self-contained a
man.

She stood quite still, looking at him,
and on the very verge of confessing the
one deceit she had practised towards him ;
and if she were betraying the faith Major
Methuen had tacitly placed in her, what
matter, so long as she soothed the storm
in her father's breast ?

But, turning suddenly, he said, ' Leave
me now,' in a tone she dared not resist,
and left him alone with his dark hour, his
bitter thoughts, to be dressed to go to a
rose-show with Lady Ann ; for, as I have
said, the Eyres kept very unfashionable
hours.

As they turned out of Prince's Gate, a
man going past in a hansom, and habited

in deepest mourning, caught a glimpse of
the girl's pure pale face in the white setting
of her carriage, and, with a desperate resolve,
turned about and followed her, though
she looked at many flowers, and spoke to
many people, before he got a chance of
approaching her.

But as she stood behind a very tree of
roses. Lady Ann being secure in the clutches
of a gossip on the other side, she looked up,
and saw Major Methuen standing before her.

Her heart leaped up, but her cheek was
pale ; her hand never dreamed of going
out to his, but as they stood there face to
face, the lesson that each had been learning
apart, the one half-unconsciously, the other
with a full knowledge of what he learned,
bore its fruit, and all was over, all was said
and done in the glance that they exchanged
in that moment.

I am going away for ever he said, and,
harsh as his voice was through pain, it
sounded sweet as music in her ears ; ' I
have only one more farewell to make : and
so, for the last time, good-bye.'

Must you go ?' she said, with pale lips.
My father is ignorant of wrong against
you ; for his sake — for mine — stay.'

If there was a moment's pause that
seemed an eternity ; if there was time for
the scent and hue of the roses by which
they stood to sink deep into their souls,
there might have seemed none to the onlookers
; but Madcap felt, rather than heard,
the deep breath he drew as he said :

I cannot — and so good-bye.'

Once he had been able to kiss her hand
at parting ; but now, with the look of a man
whose heart breaks even as he g-azcs, but to
which he will not yield, he turned aside

without so much as touching it, and she
could more easily have died than called
him back.

Did I not see you conversing with someone,
my dear '?' said Lady Ann, appearing
at her elbow as Madcap stood with fixed
eyes that saw nothing.

She did not answer, only moved like
an automaton ; but on going home, went
straight to her father, who was still pacing
the library, his looks betraying the disorder
that ruled his mind.

Dad,' she said, * I want to go home.
May I go tomorrow V

Ay — go !' he said, pausing in his walk ;
and as soon as I have found this fellow —
for the moment he stirs detectives will be
on his track — I will follow you. Lady
Ann can settle the affairs of the house ;
the others can follow later.'

Thank you, father,' she said, but did
not approach him, and sat alone with her
heart for an hour, before any other eye saw
her that day.

At luncheon she announced her intention,
to Gordon's profound satisfaction, though
less perhaps to that of Doune.

Matters between him and Nanciebel had
not been brought to the happy conclusion
that all lookers-on, save Madcap, had daily
expected.

Doune was not the man to brook a refusal,
and Nanciebel was not one to court an
offer, and only gave him just enough encouragement
to keep him from starving.
Assured of his heart, she dallied with her
happiness, and perhaps was wise in that she
prolonged that most perfect period of love
dien each knows himself beloved of the
other, yet neither has made the confession

that, however divinely satisfying, is less
exquisite than the yearning imagination has
painted it. Perhaps the tantalizing sips of
sweetness she had vouchsafed satisfied him
more than she imagined ; perhaps a girl's
blue eyes will sometimes reveal her without
her knowledge, or the inflection of a tone
unconsciously betray her. But be this as it
may, Doune wore no willow airs, and indeed
looked so handsome and happy that Madcap
often wondered wdiat unseen influence
it was that worked with such satisfactory
results.

Neither had she yet discovered the object
of Nanciebel's affection, though she was
sure he existed, from the fact of that young
woman's refusing two excellent matches on
such frivolous grounds as an unsymmetrical
body in the one instance, and a tendency to
drink in the other.

She was thinking of Nanciebel then, as
Lady Ann murmured gently about the
responsibility of all Madcap's broken engagements,
leave-takings, etc. ; yet in her
heart thought things might have been
worse, pluming herself on the skill with
which she had piloted so great a prize
through so brilliant a season, only to find
Gordon's right unchallenged at its end.

I shall be able to get down by the day
after tomorrow,' said Gordon cheerfully,
so you won't be left very long by yourself.'


'Do not come,' said Madcap earnestly,
and then he looked at her more closely, and
saw that she was troubled. ' It will take a
little while to get rid of your horses ; and T
want to be perfectly (quiet, and left to
myself for a day or two.'

Well, I shall go down the moment I

have done my business,' said Gordon
looking crestfallen in spite of his words ;
surely there is room enough for us both in
Lovel ?'

Ashen does Nanciebel come ?' said
Doune ; and Madcap must have been deaf,
surely, not to read his heart by the mere
way he pronounced that name.

I asked her from the first week in
August.'

Couldn't you persuade her to go down
sooner ?' said the young man quietly.

I dare say. But not yet ; not for a
little while !' and with almost a wild
gesture, Madcap rose from her place and
went to the window, but in a moment she
had returned.

I think I am tired out she said, with
the ghost of a smile ; ' it is quite time that
I went home. I am lioino- to Nanciebel

now, and I will ask her to come to us as
soon as — as — I am better.'

Poor little soul !' said Gordon, as the
door closed on Madcap ; ^ a month more of
this confounded gaiety would have killed
her, I do believe. Well — she shan't come
up to town next season, if / can help it !'
and he went off whistling, and treading on
air.

Madcap found Nanciebel in despair, and
Mrs. Burgoyne's household in an active
state of preparation for immediate departure.


Accident and a sanitary inspector combined,
had just discovered that the house
was fashionably built over a cesspool, and
while one servant was down with typhoid,
all the others, and their mistress as well,
were frantic to be gone. Now Mrs. Burgoyne
had for years endeavoured each year to tc^ir

VOL. III. ;31)

herself from town delights, and take that
journey to Marienbad which, for her figure
if not her health's sake, was imperative ;
but now her opportunity had arrived, and
on the following day she and Nanciebel were
to set out. It would be hard to say which
was the paler of the two usually blooming
girls as they kissed each other ; but between
their degrees of suffering, comparison there
was none.

Madcap's heart was a stone. Nancy's
was merely torn with the thought of
separation from Doune, without those
words being said that she had so often
checked, but now so desperately longed to
hear. Had she not been looking forward,
as he did, to her visit to the Red Hall % nay,
had not the same thought trembled in her
mind as his, that there he should ask his
question, and she would give him his reply ?

Madcap, shrouded in her own thoughts,
faintly wondered at Nanciebel's distress ;
and glancing beyond her present misery,
vaguely felt that she would miss the solace
of the girl's companionship, for she had
come to love her very dearly. Nor, when a
servant entered to say Mr. Doune Eyre
waited below on Miss Nanciebel, did the
girl's quickly dried tears, her joyous
trembling look, enlighten her — nay, so
preoccupied was she, that she followed her
down, and the two entered the room
together.

Doune had already heard of the impending
departure from Mrs. Burgoyne,
who had discreetly left the room when she
sent the message to Nanciebel, and was now
figuratively washing her hands of the girl
since her future seemed so brilliantly assured.


39—2

He came forward instantly, and took
Nancy's little trembling hand ; then, without
a word to her, turned to Madcap, and
said :

She must not go to Marienbad — she
can come to us at the Towers immediately,
instead of later.'

Something in his voice pierced the insensibility
that closed her in, as if a brick wall
had been built up between her and the
outer world, and looking from one to the
other, at last she learned the truth. She
received it without surprise or sign of any
kind ; then said :

Yes — come ; but not for three days.'

Doune had been holding Nancy's hand
during this time, but he said no more to
her than his eyes could speak, and Madcap
perhaps wondered (with a curious sense of
remoteness from all human interests) why

this happy young pair had nothing to say
to each other, and looked so grave.

Perhaps surprise even roused her a little,
when, five minutes later, Mrs. Burgoyne
having given consent, and all arrangements
being made for Miss Nancy's housing during
the three days before her departure for
Lovel, she witnessed between the lovers a
parting so unconcerned, so brief, that one
might have sworn there was no serious
feeling between them.

^ Her heart and she.'

'ADCAP had walked and talked
with her heart a night and a
day, and it ached all the harder
it cried out to her all the louder as its
complaint grew, and she had no power to
still it ; and the old familiar home only-made
her think of how happy her mother
had been in it, with a man more than twice
her own age.

Ay ! but Mr. Eyre had loved her, and
this man — her fathers enemy — coukl expatriate
himself rather than forget an old

grudge. . . . ' Oh ! this was not love, not
love ! It might be honour, but it was not
love,' cried out the girl, as alone at night,
in the room that had once been her nursery,
she stood looking out at the moon-washed
woods of Lovel below.

That very look had been summoned to
his eyes by the revelation in her own, just
as his mere glance had touched her heart
with unbidden fire, and kindled it to a
passion that terrified her ; for, however
sweetly cherished in her maiden thoughts
he might have been this many a year, she
had till then been as ignorant of loves true
image as if she had never heard its name.

But the flame must have smouldered
long, perhaps from that earliest day when
she had unconsciously placed him in Frank's
place, and in some curious way worshipped
the two men in one.

Perhaps if she had never seen him more,
he might in time have dwindled to a mere
memory, about which clung her tenderest
thoughts, her brightest dreams ; but that
chance meeting with him in the Park, that
subsequent one on the Derby Day, had so
filled her mind with his presence, that insensibly
he had come to be the foremost
image in it ; and it only needed a last encounter
by the rose-bush to make her
betray herself.

What was he doing now ? Pitying her ?
But no ! no ! ' He loved me, though he left
me,' she cried, living over again that one
moment of perfect happiness that was at
least her own, and never to be dimly
guessed at, and longed after, as by those
poor hungry souls to whom such a moment
has never come.

Had there not been agony in his face ashe

took that last look at her, and turned
away ; had not the strength of his renunciation
been but one degree more powerful
than his longing to obey her bidding, and
stay ' ?

Middle-aged, friendless, alone, how far
had he gone, she wondered, on that long,
long, journey, from which there could never
be a home-coming ? Was he thinking of
her now ? was he looking back, and inspirit
keeping tryst with her at the gate
where, as child and man, they had met and
parted, and where the seed was sown that
had burst, full-blown, into flower, when, aman
and maiden, they met three years
later ?

Unconsciously the girl stretched out her
arms in the direction of the cowslip-meadow,
and a wild longing to visit the
spot seized her.

No ghost of murder, no memory of Dody
climbing up them barefooted, with his
birthday rose, followed her, as she fled
down the old stone steps, and across the
courtyard, being presently swallowed up in
the shadows below.

Soon she emerged upon the cowslip-meadow,
whose stubble lay like a sheet of
molten silver, through which, in her white
gown, she stepped like a ghost, or some
pale spirit that comes stealing to revisit the
place on earth where it had found, and perchance
lost, its life's treasure.

But within a few yards of the gate she
paused, and putting one arm before her
eyes, went by instinct the remaining steps ;
then dropping her head upon the topmost
bar, suddenly realized, as she had not done
before, to what utter ruin her life had come
. . for the young heart looks its shipwreck

in the face so much more hopelessly
than the older one does, since the old have
known the joys that the young have never
tasted, and the middle-aged stand half-way
between happiness and its memory.

No thought of her father or of Doune
came to Madcap then ; the sweet, the
bitter, the madness and ecstasy of love had
swept body and soul in one passionate
chord that made thought or consciousness
impossible save of Mm ; and that truest
essence of the passion which makes a
woman identify herself with the man she
loves, whether in his humiliation or his
triumph, his gladness or his sorrow, burned
in Madcap's breast as she followed him in
thought to the solitude to which he had
condemned himself

Probably no true woman ever contemplates,
even in thought, the sufferings of the

man she loves, as easily as she endures her
own ; and soon Madcap's arm was wet with
the tears that her own agony had no power
to bring forth, while her slender body
shook with the violence of her sobs.

Suddenly she looked up, and saw on the
other side of the gate, apart and alone, the
ghost of the man to whose flesh and blood
image she had bid farewell nigh on three
days ago ; and no shock of fear thrilled her
as, all disordered with love and sorrow,
they gazed upon each other, neither seeming
to breathe, lest the spell that had summoned
each to each should be broken I

Timidly she stretched out a pale hand as
though to touch him, then drew it back,
but not for fear, and looked again with
such transfigured eyes of love as to manor
spirit must have told their tale ; and
never, I wis, did disembodied spirit look

such longing, passionate tenderness upon
his sweetheart in the body, as did this
lover, who stood but a yard away, yet
would not, dared not, advance one step to
meet her.

How clearly the mingled gold and the
grey of his hair shone out in the moonlight;
how stalwart and strong and brave his
shape, with the head slightly downbent,
and his face pale as her own in the moonbeams
! But even as she gazed, he seemed
to recede, and a black cloud obscuring the
moon, his features faded from her sight ;
and ere she could cry out, or stir, he had
receded into the gloom of the wood behind
him, and with madly beating heart she was
left to persuade herself that it was all a
dream.

But the next moment she had pushed
the gate wide, and without a thought of

shame, or any other conscious thought but
that she must find him, she fled on through
the soft darkness that was all latticed and
barred with silver ; at first in silence, then,
as the sense of loneliness deepened, whispering
his name, ' Frank ! Frank !' just as
if she had known and called him by no
other all her life !

So had she never thought of him till
now, but in the spirit he would hear and
understand her. . . , gradually her voice
grew fainter, and she ceased to call him,
coming back slowly to the cowslip-gate,
through which she passed with a long sobbing
sigh that reached the ears of one who
thought an angel with the faithfulness of a
woman had passed that way to-night.

VOL. III. • 40

What harm, my lord, provokes thine ire

To wreak itself on me ?
Have I not saved thy life from foes,

And saved for sic a fee f

such excitement had been known
in Lovel for many years as that
which agitated it during the two
days that preceded Madcap's arrival. Hester
Clarke, long since supposed to be dead, had
returned ; and though absent nigh on a
score of years, had been at once recognised,
and received with a warmth that betokened
the attitude of the village opinion towards
her.

No matter if she came so secretly that
none, save her old friend, knew of her
presence till accident discovered her to beat
Synge Lane ; no matter if she never
stirred abroad, and shrank even from the
honest hands thrust forth to welcome her,
crying out that she was not worthy to take
them, for there was not a man or woman in
the village who did not reckon her sins as
white to the scarlet of those committed by
the master of the Eed Hall.

She volunteered no account of herself,
and gave no reason for her visit ; though
some found it in the arrival, on the next
day but one, of a gentleman who went
straight to Synge Lane and remained at
Hester's lodging some two hours, though
where he went afterwards, nobody noticed,
for just then Madcap drove through the
village, and in the universal delight and

40—2

astonishment, Hester and her possible lover
were forgotten. But if her lover, why did
she bring him here, to the scene of her
greatest misery and degradation ? And
this man was a gentleman, with a curious
resemblance to the Lovels, as more than
one observed when he strode quickly
past the gossips, looking neither to the
right nor left, and more as if he were
going to his own funeral (as one of the
women afterwards said) than a-courting.
Though what should two such middle-aged
folk have to do with courting ?' said the
young girls, tossing their heads, and more
alive to the disgrace than the pity of
Hester's part in the great tragedy whose
closing scenes had even yet to be played
out.

But if lovers, then they chose a strange
place later in the evening for exchanging

their vows, since the village pedagogue,
intent on star-gazing, came upon the pair
as they stood side by side at Mrs. Eyre's
grave. Now if the worthy man had one
faculty in use beyond that of imparting
learning, it was the faculty of never forgetting
a face from its wrinkled infancy to a
less wrinkled old age ; and at sight of
Hester's companion, he, without a second of
hesitation, respectfully saluted him as Lord
Lovel.

Lord Lovel lies there,' said the man
addressed, pointing to the grave on Madcap's
left ; and being but of a poor heart
and easily abashed, the pedagogue slipped
aside, and sat down on a tombstone out
of sight, to reason out the problem of a
dead man having his living effigy standing
just over his head.

The moon had not fully risen, the tombstone

was nearer to the pair than they
supj)osecl ; and the pedagogue caught a word
here and there that only added to the
bewilderment of his mind.

AVhat was it that had been done, and
must still be done, ' for her sake ' ? What
did a man mean who said he was leaving; of
his own free will, and for ever, the only thing
he valued upon earth ? And if Hester were
his sweetheart, and he were leaving Aer,
why didn't he give her a kiss by way of
consolation ? To be sure, he heard some
words urging her to leave the village as
soon as possible, in case of Mr. Eyre's
accidental return, and to leave no trace by
which she might be followed ; but if this
were not Lord Lovel's ghost in the flesh
who should he be, to have so intimate a
knowledge of Mr. Eyre's feelings towards
her ? Lastly he saw Hester stoop down and

press her lips to the turf above the older
Madcap's grave, and then the two went
slowly away towards the village.

And so it happened that another besides
Madcap saw a ghost in Lovel that night.

■ Madcap had fallen asleep, still entrapped

in the magic shroud of her illusions ; but

with the morning light it fell from her, and

looking back on her passionate exaltation of

mood the night before, she recognised it as

madness, and ran to her mirror to discover

the signs of it in her face. But she found

no madness there, only an odd sort of

resemblance to her father that showed itself

in moments of strong excitement ; and she

turned aside with a sob of relief to the open

window, looking out to where far below

spread that softly-swelling sea of green,

beneath whose boughs she had pursued her
mad love-chase overnight.

For she had seen him — whether in the
flesh or the spirit, she had seen him. And
had she indeed by jure longing found
power to summon to her his outward presentment,
though to her outstretched hand,
her voice, he had remained insensible as
the dead ? And if his spirit, then he must
have died, and none should blame her for
summoning him to that midnight tryst ;
but if indeed she had seen him in the flesh,
then he loved her not, but had fled from
the sound of his own name as it followed
him through the wood.

Frank ! Frank /' Her own voice seemed
to thunder in louder and louder echoes
through the silvery aisles ; the very rustle
of the leaves, the very pattern of their
dance uj^on the sward seemed to whisper,

He heard you calling — calling ! And you
will overtake him never — never 1'

Shame seized Madcap, and for awhile
cast out love. Had not her eyes sufficiently
betrayed her, that she must shout
her secret to the ears of a man whose only
method of overtaking had from the first
been retreat ?

While shame lasted, the scorpions of
memory stung her, and she suddenly
remembered that this man was avowedly
her father's enemy. And what had the
dear old father — her playmate, companion,
friend — done, that Major Methuen should so
hate, and at the same time avoid him ?

From the first Mr. Eyre's attitude had
been one of candour towards this double of
Frank Lovel ; he had sought sedulously as
any beggar for an interview with him, and
the evasions, the subterfuges that had prevented

it, most assuredly did not lie at his
door. The dishonour lay, then, with the
man who persisted in a dishonourable
silence ; and gradually there grew in Madcap's
breast a more intolerable pang far
than when she had blushed for herself;
now she blushed for the man she loved.

If only she might see him once more —
take back by look and gesture the guerdon
she had unasked bestowed upon him I But
that was not likely now ; by this time he
had retreated far beyond the sound of a
voice that planned and sobbed after him,
like a forsaken bird that will not be
consoled until it has found its mate.

Anger dried the tears in her eyes, and
pride dressed her beautifully for breakfast,
and that descent afterwards to the village
for which every cottager confidently looked.
But when she started, it was by way of the

coppice and past the smithy, so that she
entered the village almost unobserved, and
more by accident than intention turned
down Synge Lane.

The little cottage that boasted the only
lodgings to let in Lovel, stood back from
its garden, and the house-door being open.
Madcap entered, then stopped short, as
from a room within Major Methuen's voice
struck on her ear.

The coldness towards him that had so
rapidly grown within her, strengthened to
ice as a woman's voice followed on his in
accents of passionate pleading, of wdiicli the
sound but not the sense reached her brain.

Noiselessly as she had come, so she
departed. So this was the ' last farewell '
that Major Methuen had to take before he
left England for ever ; and it was in the
keeping of this appointment that he had

accidentally strayed towards the cowslip -
gate overnight. Oh, fool ! to think that
for his friends sake he was leaving her !
Oh, fool ! to have mistaken him for her
lover !

The women that morning found Madcap
beautiful, praised her colour and her dress,
but of village gossip told her not one word.

Who is lodging in Synge Lane V she
said at last, and saw how looks were exchanged,
heads nodded, while an indescribable
air of confusion came upon the
group addressed.

It's a young woman, miss,' said Sal of
the mill, stepping into the breach. ' She's
only here for a bit — just to meet her young
man,' she added in a flash of inspiration ;
and I reckon the pair of 'em '11 be gone
before long.'

Who is the young man V said Madcap,

reading accurately enough the stolid faces
around her, and convinced that they were
keeping something from her ; ' and who is
the young woman V

Well, she ain't young, miss, so to speak,
for she's nigh on forty ; and she's called
Hester. And the young man, he's not
young either ; but they're just as handsome
a pair as ever stood together.'

They are old friends V said Madcap.

Yes, miss,' said the woman slowly and
cautiously. ' Many and many years ago,
before you was born, folks called 'em lovers ;
and now it seems like as if they had made
up their minds to be happy.'

Have their lives, then, been so wretched?'
exclaimed Madcap, pale and cold, but with
no other outward sign of the heart that was
breaking in her breast.

They've had trouble,' said Sal cautiously ;

but before she could think of further details
with which to embroider her daring invention,
Madcap had turned away as if weary
of the subject.

"What ever made you tell her that lie V
said one of the women in a whisper to Sal ;
if she sees him, she'll see quick enough
he's a gentleman, and not for the likes of
Hester. But the Lord save her if the
master comes down unexpected, and finds
her in the place !'

She'll be off like a swallow now Miss
Madcap's come,' said another. ' But she'll
get a look at her first, and 'twill scare her
just as if 'twas Mrs. Eyre rose from the
dead.'

Look !' exclaimed Sal in an awe-struck
whisper, and pointing towards the entrance
to Synge Lane, whence two figures were
emerging ; ' they're coming, and she doesn't

see them, for she's talking to Goody Holt.
But what's the matter with him? He's
looking at Miss Madcap as if he knew her,
and now she's looking too. There ! off
goes his hat, and she's speaking, and
Hester's like to faint. And now they've
took the road to the station, and Miss Madcap's
going home by the copse.

Lord !' said Goody Holt a few moments
later to her gossips, * how proud Miss Madcap
have growed in Lunnun ! She just
said " Good-morning, sir !" as if he was dirt,
and without a glint of her eye on his face ;
and she looked at Hester, poor soul, as if
she'd been prison !'

tis not the frost that freezes fell,
Nor having saw's inclemency ;

'Tis nae sic could that makes me cry
But my love's heart groin could to me.

madcap !'

• Gordon !'

Yes, here I am,' said the
young man guiltily ; ' but I thought you
might be dismal here by yourself — and, by
Jove, you look so !' he added, with sudden
concern ; 'you are as white as your frock!'
and he touched one of her flounces of
muslin embroidery.

And may I not be as pale as I please,

here, where I came on purpose to be quiet T
said Madcap, with an angry stamp of her
little foot.

You seem to have had visitors, all the
same,' said Gordon drily, ' for I don't
suppose Methuen came to call on anyone in
the village. Perhaps it's part of his game
at General Post to come down here when
he knows your father is looking for him in
town

Where did you see him ?' said Madcap,
continuing the task in Which Gordon had
surprised her, and which happened to be
that of dusting and arranging her father's
books.

He got into the train that I got out of,'
said Gordon, ' and stared at me as if he saw
a ghost.'

There is nothing on earth that you less
resemble,' said Madcap ; ' and you are

VOL. III. 41

AvroDg in supposing he came to look for
father or me,' she added below her breath,
for he came on a visit to a person in
the village. And how is Xanciebel ?' she
added, with an abrupt change of tone.

I don't know, and I don't care,' said the
young fellow, and snatched her duster
and threw it down ; then caught her hands
and held them.

Madcap,' he said, 'for once and all, you
shall give me my answer to-day.'

She looked up, and the ardent love, the
power, the protection of Gordon's look and
attitude could not but strike he , in contrast
with the cold neglect, the outrage, that the
man she loved had put upon her.

Oh, Gordon!' she said, and somehow
realized that here was her mother's story
With Frank Lovel over again ; and something
in her voice — more of ]iitv for herself

than him — struck the young fellow oddly
he put her back the better to search her
face.

Who is it ?' he said, pain hardening his
voice, and for once making it masterful.

The colour Hew into her face, the light to
her eyes in that moment ; however it might
disgrace her, flesh and blood bore witness
to the truth of how

In her heart a grace hath reigned,
That nothing else could bring . . .'

and Gordon read the signs surely and truly.
He dropped her hands, and went to the
window, coming back just as she stooped topick
up her duster.

He loves you ?' he said, still in that
stern voice so unfamiliar to Madcap's ears.

'No.'

'Then God help you, Madcap!' he said,
and went out ; and mechanically she echoed

41—2

his words, and shivered with a sense of cold
as she stood alone.

Was she to be left by everyone — by
Doune, by Gordon, by Mm — (ah ! this last
was the bitterest stab of all, with a bow and
a ' Good-morning, sir!' to represent their
leave taking) — by all save the dear old dad,
whom she had betrayed when she loved his
enemy ?

She kneeled down by his chair, but e^ en
as she put her lips to the leather, knew that
however faithfully he had loved her, he
was not first with her now. She could
think of him tenderly ; she was vaguely
conscious of clinging to him as her one
refuge in the future, but for the moment
she felt only a raging desire to be alone,
beyond human sight or sound of human
voices, confronting the fact that Major
Methuen not only loved and rode away, but

rode away with another woman. Her cool
green hollow beckoned her, even across
blinding fields of heat ; and it was safe, it
was secret. The only soul who knew of its
existence was by now far away, and Gordon
might search the woods for a month before
ever he found it and her.

She caught up her white sunshade, and
went by the way that she had passed overnight,
shame stinging her at every step
freshly, as she thought of how Swiftly lie
had sped to the one-sided tryst in which
she had taken passionate farewell of a ghost
that in point of fact was a very substantial
body running away.

She laughed aloud, climbed to her seat,
and looked down the long and beautiful
aisles that she had so long reckoned her
own, and which ]viator Methuen had also
seemed to think at his disposal. Then, the

moment having at last come when she was
alone with her misery and her shame, turning
her cheek to the moss of the tree, Madcap
wept.

She cried out no more than her father
would have done under equal punishment,
but her body trembled as if shaken by a
violent hand ; and was it a ghost that in
the afternoon sunshine drew near, and stood
looking down on her with such misery in
his eyes as her hidden ones could not have
matched ?

So had he seen her mother once, and a
word from him had ended that one short,
bitter space of a sunny life, and she had
]been happy, happy afterwards to the very
end ; and now a word from him would save
her child, and he neither willed nor dared
to speak it.

For himself he hardly thought ; just ashe

had foregone his happiness and good
name in the past, now he forewent his
happiness in the future ; but for every
pang that he had suffered for Madcap the
elder, he suffered a thousand now, as he
watched the convulsed form from Avhicli
there came neither sound nor sob, though
the sod alone knew what bitter tears fell
from the eyes pressed close above them.

And she wept for him ; though his heart
half broke to see her suffer, yet exultation
swelled it — just as that divine revelation of
her love, when they had met b}^ the rosebush,
had at once electrified and stunned
him ; for hopelessly, passionately as he
loved her, he had never looked for or expected
any return in kind, and beneath that
heavenly shock, body and soul had cried
out fiercely against duty when she had bid
him ' stay.' And he had wrestled with

the temptation, and cast it out ; he had
jilt this most exquisite moment of his life
almost untasted by, and thanklessly as a
beggar into whose hand has been ignorantly
dropped a priceless gem, he had turned
away, nor thanked her for that precious
gift ; nay, had he not even seemed to
scorn her, when in that strange ghostly
meeting in the moonlight he had fled
from her out stretched hand, and the sound
of her sweet voice calling him through the
wood !

The echo of those notes of love ling-red
in his ears yet . . . yet he had taken
harsher ones with him when by sheer self-mastery
he had forced himself from Lovel
that day, only to find that his will compelled
him to return ; so that at the risk of
his neck he had leaped from the train soon
after it had cleared the station, and come

straight hither bent on one last secret look
at her, one last unuttered farewell.

For fresh in his memory was her cold
Good-morning, sir !' spoken with the fine
air, too proud to be contempt, that certain
women can assume at will, and that had set
him at such a distance as to make him
doubt if his eyes and ears had not played
him false overnight ; and he had half expected
to find her indifferent to his departure,
or at most but a little ashamed that
she had forgotten her legitimate lover to
exchange a look of love with a man old
enough to be her father, and for whom she
had always borne the affection of a friend.

But here, in this woodland recess, to
which her childish hand had once guided
him, she was herself, and unconsciously the
true and tender heart was bared to his
gaze. Perhaps some sense of the wrong he

did lier by his presence smote him, perhaps
sense that his strength was failing him
made him resolute to leave her before ho
should be discovered ; for with one last
long look at the half-hidden face, one
gesture as of despair towards her, he turned
slowly away.

Something beneath his foot crackled, and
she sprang up.

For a moment the gap between her
thoughts of him in the spirit and his
presence here in the flesh was not to be
bridged . . . her tears froze, her sobs
ceased, she stood still as a statue, each
muscle tense and rigid as steel,

Madcap !' he said.

His voice broke the spell ; once more she
breathed, and a faint colour overspread her
features ; but into her eyes came a look
that fell on him chill as ice, as, scorning to

bide the tears that blotted her face, she
said :

Have you Lord Lovel's permission to be
here ?'

Her voice was gentle, for Madcap was of
the sort that can rail at herself, but not at
her lover, or what she loves ; and though
anger alone at his intrusion then filled her
mind, her eyes and lips told each a different
tale.

Yes ; I have his permission.'

Then I will leave you to enjoy it,' she
said, and moved to depart.

What ! had he not slighted her enough
overnight ? was not her very glance of
love by the rose-bush won from her under
false pretences, since he knew himself
pledged to another woman, and that woman
the same he had flaunted before her eyes
to-day ? I say, was not all this enough,

without returning secretly to spy on her in
this her most miserable hour ?

No, you will stay,' he said resolutely.
And so you love me — I know it now.'

That, sir,' she said with spirit, ' is a
lesson very easily unlearned.'

Is it ?' he said. ' I have learned but
one ; for my love for you is but a continuation
of the old.'

^ Then Hester must lie satisfied with a
new,' said Madcap), with a half-mocking
courtesy.

Hester !' he exclaimed. ' What has she
to do with me ?'

Nothing, except that she is your —
sweetheart.'

JVty sweetheart !' echoed Frank, an angry
Hush rising to his forehead. ' Who has told
you such an insane story?'

But he got no answer. Madcap had

turned her head aside, that he might not
see the joy that painted her face — joy,
even though she knew that not all the
weight of his love, nor hers, could bridge
the gulf that divided them.

And you believed it ?' he said, perhaps
never having felt the degradation of his
position so keenly as then ; ' and is that
why you said " Good-morning, sir !" as if
I were your footman 1'

^ Does one call one's footman " sir " ?'
said Madcap, half turning, and showing
such happy dimples and eyes (still wet)
of such pure content, as read him her
heart more sweetly even than her tears
had done.

And you can be happy. Madcap !' he
said, almost with a groan ; ' and after today
we shall never look upon each other's
faces again.'

Do we not love one another V she said,
at once proudly and gently ; ' and is not
that enough V

No, it is not enough for me,' he said, and
drew his breath hard, looking at her with
a hunger that would not be content with
little, but must fill its soul, or famish ; while
in her eyes was the restful joy of a woman
who is satisfied so long as she holds the one
morsel she has coveted safe in her hand.

Perhaps no man ever really appreciates
the unselfishness, the reticence, of a true
woman's love ; and Frank's voice was bitter
as he repeated :

It is not enough for me, and I cannot,
ivill not let you go. If you had not loved
me, I could have borne my lot, wretched
though it might be ; but duty is a poor
thing when it demands the sacrifice of a
life dearer than your own.'

Then if dearer, it should be stronger
in duty than yourself,' said Madcap firmly.
Do you think I would have let you see
my heart so plainly, given you my love
unasked, if I did not know that we are
eternally separated from each other ? You
should have sued to me long, had there
been a chance — a chance '

Her voice faltered, though a smile was
on her lip, and pure and perfect as that
first look of love which had revealed her to
him by the rose-bush was the look in her
eyes now, and a madness seized him, in
which he said :

There is a way — and only one.'

His gaze searched hers, as if to see what
reserves of strength and courage lay behind
her beauty and her love ; as his face
hardened beneath the urgency of his regard,
so unconsciously did hers, till the

girl's face was almost as resolute as the
man's.

You are strong,' he said, ' but your love
must be stronger. Will you give up your
father, brother, home, without a hope of
ever seeing either again, to trust yourself
absolutely to me V

A cold breath seemed to pass through
her as he spoke, for she was of the sort
that could brook unfaith in her lover rather
than his dishonour.

Do you know what you are asking me
to do ?' she said, white as snow.

To trust me all in all, or not at all.'
Then,' she said, so low that he barely
heard her, ' it must be not at all.'

But even as she spoke, the moment* of
madness passed, and he cursed himself for
having vitiated in one moment of selfishness
the abnegation of half a lifetime.

Cold and haggard, the fires in his eyes
suddenly burnt out, he fearlessly lifted his
head to her ; and as their glance met, she
asked herself if Nature had indeed lied when
she stamped his features with such nobility,
sincerity, and truth. No ! Dishonour had
laid no finger there, and if she might not trust
him all in all, she would trust him yet.

She had risen from the seat that he and
she had once filled like king and queen, and
now he stood like a beggar below though
the boon that his soul desired was in sooth
no poor one.

Perhaps she guessed it, as, his eyes compelling
her, slowly she rose, and stooped to
him . . . stooped lower yet, till her knees
sank in the turf, and he could reach his
arm to draw her down . . . together their
lips mingled in the word ' good-bye ' . . .
and Madcap had kissed him.

VOL. III. 42

1 magna turn, I canna turn,
I daurnci turn and fight icith tJiee.'

■^^l^pHE woodland life around beat nota
pulse the slower or the quicker
because a maiden had given her
first kiss as easily as a chance common thing
might, whose fancy had flamed up at the
mere beckoning; of a man's fino-er.

Yet no shame painted itself on the girl's
pale cheek, but only fear, as the lips that
had sought hers so eagerly grew cold as
death, and the arm about her neck slipped,
as without word or sigh he dropped insensible

in the hollow below, and lay like a
dead man, with one arm hanging curiously
stiff and straight by his side.

In an instant Madcap was kneeling beside
him and lifting it, but a touch told her that
it was broken, and with a sob she laid it
down.

Her voice roused him ; he tried to rise,
leaning his weight on the broken limb, but
she cried out in horror, and lent him all her
strength, so that she seemed to be clasping
him in her arms, as for a second they stood
together.

'Frank!' exclaimed a terrible voice
behind them, and Madcap shrank back, as at
last Mr. Eyre and the man she loved stood
face to face, every line distinct in the broad
June sunshine.

Methuen /' said the other doggedly.

You lie r cried Mr. Eyre, with a gesture

42—2

as though he could have struck him across
the mouth ; ' it has been a lie, a deception,
from the beginning, and I find you here, a
coward to the last, and making for me
traitors among even my own household
r

In his passion, he loathed his daughter
too much to look at her, and so she was
spared a glance that must have left its
mark, for he thought her a partner in the
whole fraud, and that by merest accident
he had here surprised a long premeditated
assignation.

But Madcap was one of those who can
stand aside and wait, ' containing their
souls,' and did not blench then, or after,
through the closing scenes of the tragedy in
which she had unconsciously played a part
all her life.

Methuen, at your service,' said the man

who stood at the foot of the beech-tree, his
face set like a flint, his eyes hard as steel.

By God !' cried Mr. Eyre, ' either you or
I shall not leave this wood alive to-day,
unless I drag from your lips the truth.'

If you have weapons with you,' said the
other, ' you may murder me ; but you shall
not force me to speak.'

Murder you !' said Mr. Eyre, and looking
at the man before him with bitterest
hatred and loathing ; ' have you not
murdered me, body and soul ? Have you
not poisoned my life with a lie — written
down a false accusation, and run away,
fearing to face it out or hear my reply ? To
lie, to deceive, to suborn my very daughter
my only daughter ; to take another man's
name and wear it, deceiving the doting old
mother of a dead man — to act from first to
last a hideous lie — would murder be punishment

enough for all this, coward, liar,
traitor f

With the last word he deliberately struck
the man before him a heavy blow on the
mouth, and as the blood sprang. Madcap
trembled with pure feminine sickening at
the sight of men in conflict, and ran forward,
crying out, ' Father /'

You here V he said, and turned on her a
look beneath which she might well have
cowered ; ' get you home, and pray God to
make you more like your mother.'

She is dead !' said the girl, pale as snow,
and my place is by you. It is all a
mistake, and it is Major Methuen who stands
there.'

She did not — could not lift her eyes to
the man who had taken the blow so tamely ;
but Mr. Eyre thrust her away violently, and
said, •' Home with you — home !' and with a

sob as though he had beaten her, she turned
and fled without one backward look ; till,
her foot catching in the root of a tree, she
fell against its bole, and lay stunned, though
whether for a moment or an hour she did
not know.

When she came to herself, and looked
around, she was far out of earshot, but
within sight of the two men who now stood
in the green hollow that had so long been
her peaceful retreat ; but their gestures,
however controlled, expounded the heart
tragedy in process of being enacted. . .
Here was one of those awful scenes over
which the pen falters, the brush fails, for
only human voice and eye could adequately
describe and see it ; but out of its prolonged
agony Mr. Eyre came forth victorious, and,
having torn the truth bit by bit from his
enemy, passed with features

Bim and dank and grey,
Like a storm-extinguished day.
Travelled o'er by dying gleams. . . .'

moving blindly, and with uncertain steps,

towards home.

But he had not gone a score yards when his
daughter's arms caught him, and he looked
at her as one might at the long-forgotten
dead . in the awful wrong he had done
her mother, the girl's wrong-doing was
extinguished ; and he did not even remember
his anger against her as they went
a few steps along the way that with only
anxious, not hopeless, hearts they had
traversed such a short time ago.

Child,' he said, stopping abruptly, ' take
your hand from mine ; it is red with blood
the blood of your mother.'

Father !' she said, struck to the soul, and
for a second recoiling from him beneath this
upheaval of her whole life. . . .

Ay — y 0117^ father,' he said, looking down
at his hand ; ' for it seems a hand can work
without loll, knowledge, conscience. But
Frank will tell you the whole story if you
2:0 to him.'

Frank T she repeated ; then forgot the
man whose name she uttered, as, crying
out ' Father, father /' she only held closer
that beloved figure . . . nothing that he
might have done could touch the core of her
allegiance, and without one backward look
she led him away, and, with every step a
pang, got him home to his library, where
immediately he fell into a profound slumber.

He had walked by her side like an
automaton, and laid himself down as one ;
and in the sleep or stupor into which he had
fallen, his features retained the fearful expression
that had been stamped on them
during the interview in the wood.

Pale and cold for awhile, Madcap stood
and watched him ; but there was work to be
done, and, calling Nan, she installed her in
the remotest corner of the library, with orders
not to move till she returned ; then ran outwith
at once the quickest and heaviest feet
that had ever carried her through the cowslip-gate,
to the hollow in which she prayed as
she went to find the man whom, of all upon
earth, she most desired to see.

Long before she got within sight of it,
she felt that he was there, and was by his
side before he had lifted himself from the
attitude of despair into which he had fallen
when Mr. Eyre left him.

She could not see his face, which was to
the tree ; but his open hand held behind
his back fixed her attention, and, leaning
forward, she saw that on the inside of the
thumb was a diamond shaped scar.

The discovery gave her no shock. She
was wholly possessed now with her father's
state, and with no blush or thought of self,
touched that hand and said :

Lord Lovel !'

He turned and looked at her. Alas,
alas ! how quickly had love's bitter drowned
in them both love's sweet ! For he was
paler than she, and so completely broken
by the intense struggle of the past hour,
that scarcely could his manhood command
strength to look at her, and stand still to
await her questions.

But the red mark on his mouth must
have reminded her, if no inward thought
had done, of her errand, and she
said :

You have tried to persuade my father
that he killed my mother ; and he is ill,
nervous — angry with you for the deception

you have practised towards him. But do
you not know that my mother died in
childbirth V

She did,' said the man before her ; ' and
Mr. Eyre is ill and unnerved, as you say.
Do not listen to him — tomorrow he will
think and speak differently.'

No cried Madcap ; ' I will have the
truth — if you can speak it she added below
her breath.

Had ever a man two such deadly pieces
of work, with scarce a breath between, as
had this one as he looked on the girl, and
felt the second ordeal more terrible than
the first ?

As he had taken the blow, so he took the
gibe — silently. Nigh on twenty years ago
he had humbly imitated a Divine example,
and taken up his burden without a groan ;
and now he waited, bringing his last remnants

of courage and endurance to meet hero



next words.

How could he be guilty ?' she cried
passionately. ' You make a wild accusation
; but I know that you got a little
touched in India, and so you have imagined
things. . .'

He stood mute as a stone ; for if he had
often lied before for her mother's sake, here
he could not, nor felt the same imperative
need, since in this second Madcap was the
strength to dare and do which had been
denied to the older one.

So you are all that my father called
you,' she said at last, as he maintained that
stubborn silence, and she saw how the
short hair on his temples was dark and wet
with the dews of agony ; ' and all my lifelong
I have been worshipping a hero only
to find him something worse than a murderer

— something that stabs in the dark
and hides in the daylight — in one word, an
assassin /'

The ugly word sped like a blow as she
advanced a step, and looking at him with
eyes grown hard and cold in an hour, virtually
denied her love, and sided with her
father against him.

He made a step forward as if to lease
her, but she stood before him with flaming
eyes, fired by a resolution that would have
made her go through a dozen scenes more
terrible than this, to save her father.

His life is at stake,' she said ; ' I saw
death in his face when I left him. Tell me
on what grounds you base your awful accusation,
that I may prove to him you are
mad when I go back.'

Here was a way out of the situation — to
be mad, to feign forgetfulness of all that he

had said and done; but, curiously enough,
the man who in early youth could sacrifice
his honour and see himself contemptible in
the eyes of his first love, could not in
middle age brook the same degradation in
the eyes of his second and last sweetheart.


I am not mad,' he said slowly ; 'but if
it will do your father any good to think
me so '

Oh !' she cried, ' do you think that I
have not strength to hear what is hilling
him ?'

'It would kill you,' he said, 'and you
are innocent ; it is unnatural that you
should suffer so ; his is the sin, let his ])e
the punishment.'

The young die more easily than the old,'
she said ; ' tell me the whole story, for I
must go back to him directly. . .'

To tell her the whole story . . . that
story of a sin which even angels might not
utter without tears of horror and pity . . .
it was beyond his strength ; and jutting
her aside almost as abruptly as her father
had done, he was gone from her sight before
she had time to stretch a hand or lift a voice
to stay him.

Heaven cannot abide it,
Earth refuses to hide it . . .'

'ADCAP found the library sofa unoccupied,
and no living soul insight
but Nan, who sewed her
seam through mental shipwreck, as she
would have sewn it through one at sea, so
long as the light, or glare of torch-beams
lasted.

Madcap shook the woman, in the agony

of her fear ; but Nan knew nothing of

Master ' except that he had suddenly woke

up, and gone out on the instant, ' like one

VOL. III. 43

as walks in his sleep she added stolidly,
not knowing how in her stupidity she had
given a clue to the young mistress, who
rushed away as on the wings of the
wind.

All down the village she sped, with her
eager question of ' Have you seen my
father V and having easily tracked him to
Synge Lane, rejoiced to see his back
through the uncurtained window, in conversation,
as she supposed, with his tenant.

She drew in her breath with a half sob
as she entered the open door, scarce knowing
what she had dreaded in her delight at
having found him, but paused on the very
threshold of the room, as certain words
reached her ears, spoken in an unfamiliar
voice.

I came down here,' it said, * to look at
the Pool, and think of my sin ; for I knew

you were safe in town, and I never expected
to see Lord LoveL'

So, in tracking him hither, I have found
you both,' said Mr. Eyre ; ' and you and 1
are face to face at last — and if Frank Lovel
thought he spoke the truth to me this afternoon,
you shall substantiate it.'

What could he tell you more than you
know already V said the woman's voice ;
have not both he and 1 bound ourselves
as exiles to save you ? Neither of us came
back till we thought you absent or dead ;
and for your child's sake — made in her
image — we both willingly effaced ourselves
again.'

Good God !' cried Mr. Eyre ; ' have
you, too, taken leave of your senses — do
you suppose that I murdered my wife V

I said you kill her,' said the woman's
voice beyond. ' Heavens ! if only I

43—2

might have saved her . . . but I was barely
in time to see it, and the window was
between '

Liar f he cried ; ' confess that you yourself
committed the crime, and bear false
witness against me but to save yourself.
But this time there shall be no miscarriage
of justice, and you shall hang for her murder
yet;

I would hang willingly,' said the voice,
for the sin is mine, and she never wronged
me ; my wretched weakness was at the root
of all, and perhaps you did well to slay her
she is happier as she is.'

What ! you still persist in that horrible
lie V he cried, in a voice of fury, ' the
poisonous lie that drove Lord Lovel forth,
that, on his return, you have instilled into
his ear drop by drop, till his very soul is
drugged with its untruth ? Before my God

I will swear that this right hand is innocent
of her blood as '

Stay !' cried the voice ; ' do not perjure
yourself so ; these eyes saw that hand commit
the crime, and to avoid giving evidence
against you I ran away, but was drawn
back by my love for your child, and when
you committed me for trial I resolved that,
if convicted, I would die silent.'

Silent V cried Mr. Eyre ; ' then how
came Lord Lovel by his knowledge V

^ In your brain fever you revealed everything,'
said the woman ; ' until then he believed
me guilty — and I did not undeceive
him.'

Mr. Eyre laughed aloud — and to one of
the hearers it sounded like that of a mocking
devil, and to the other that of a madman,
as she crouched with her brow to the
lintel of the half-opened door.

Does a man in brain-fever speak the
truth V he said contemptuously ; ' and as
to your eyes — who would trust them, with
a knowledge of your antecedents ? The
brain that could plan a murder could easily
enough plan a lie.'

There was no answer, no sound of any
kind but that of Mr. Eyre's steps as he
paced to and fro about the narrow room ;
but when those steps stopped, Madcap's
heart seemed stopped also, as she waited for
his next words.

You have impressed your lie vividly
enough upon Lord Lovel ; tell it to me, and
with some circumstantial detail, that I may
the more readily appreciate it '

Have you forgotten it V cried the
woman, with a passion of wonder in her
voice ; ' how you came up the winding stair
from the library, and, pausing at sight of

the seated figure, snatched a knife from the
open dressing-case and stabbed her savagely
to the heart as she sat asleep by the window,
before I could even cry out ? You left
her there for dead, and thrust the knife
away in a cabinet, and went downstairs as
one who walks in his sleep, and 1 was
frozen, and could not call out or stir ; but
presently my senses came back, and I cried
Murder /" hoping that she was not
dead.'

And the scrap of your clothing found
attached to her chair — what of that ?' said
Mr. Eyre.

I had forced my way through the narrow
window ; I was feeling her heart, her pulse,
when the light of your candle showed
zigzag on the private stair, and at the
same moment came the sound of hurrying
feet ; some impulse made me snatch the

knife from the cabinet in which I had seen
you place it, and I escaped barely in time,
only to be intercepted by Digges at its
foot. I struggled with him and got away,
stumbling on for miles, till I thought myself
safe from pursuit. But the child drew me
back ; suddenly it was borne in upon me
that he was very ill, and in the dead of
night I returned to find him dying in Lord
Lovel's arms. But he died in mine — thank
God for that — my little love, my angel !
and as he lay dead upon my knees, you
entered with the officers of the law, and
ordered them to take me to prison, charged
with the murder I had seen you commit.'

Mr. Eyre suddenly burst out into a fit
of violent, shocking laughter, that revealed
his state of incipient madness more clearly
than a thousand other extravagances could
have done.

So that is the story into which you
have persuaded Frank Lovel !' he said ;
this is the tissue of lies that you have
taken seventeen years to build up ! But a
judge and jury will find out these, for tomorrow
morning I will give myself up to justice,
on your evidence, as the murderer of my wife.'

No, no !' cried Hester passionately.
'You have forced — wrung the truth from
me ; but for her sake — for the sake of the
vow I made to her the day before she died
I would hang for your crime rather than
publicly accuse you of it !'

No,' said Mr. Eyre ; ' you would only
slay my soul, as my friend has done. But
each syllable that you and he have spoken
to-day shall be sifted in a court of law ;
for by the God against whom I have sinned,
I shear that this hand is innocent of my
wife's blood !'

In the awful silence that followed, Madcap's
heart seemed to cease to beat, and the
very life-blood to ebb from her veins. Then
came the sound of a woman's sob — hard,
anguished, as the last hopeless cry of a profound
despair.

Ay, weep if you can,' said Mr. Eyre,
in a terrible voice : 'you, who destroyed
the happiness, took the life of the sweetest
soul God ever made ; for if your hand
hesitated to slay her, your deeds stood fast
to break her heart, and but for you she
would be living still.'

I know it,' said Hester, in a voice
scarcely less unnatural than his. ' It was
my sin, my weakness, that brought about
the whole tragedy from first to last ; and
that's why I let you accuse me falsely ;
that's wdiy I would have died without
speaking, if they had brought me in guilty

dit the trial — for her sake and Dolly's ; and
because she loved you . . . and it was the
only way I could make it up to her . . .
though she's happy now, for she has got
him '

The woman's voice broke and became
human ; tears came, and relieved her. But
Mr. Eyre, dry-eyed, incredulous, yet shaken
to the very centre of his being, laughed
again as he looked at her.

You and my Lord Lovel have managed
it very well between you,' he said ; ' you
must have had many interviews, to dovetail
your stories so circumstantially ; but I find
more than one flaw in your ingenious
narrative — though the best legal talent in
England will discover them without 7}iy help
before I am a week older.'

Yes,' said Hester ; ' Lord Lovel and I
have managed ivell, as you say. What he

learned, he learned from your lips alone
in your delirium ; then we combined, and
decided on your account to live as exiles.'

Say on your own /' cried Mr. Eyre
furiously, as one whose endurance fails
him ; ^ a pair of traitors, who deserve to
die a hundred deaths to avenge her one !
But this time you shall not escape me ;'
and he strode to the door, and was about
to call to the woman of the house, when
he stumbled over Madcap's body, as she
kneeled with her brow to the lintel, pale,
and with a look of death imprinted on her
features.

He stooped to lift her, and carried her
in . if he could have uttered sob or
cry, as Hester had done but now, his agony
might have been less ; but grim and silent
he sat down with his burden, and only
looked at her . . . here was his punishment

; here, in the suffering of this innocent
soul, he found the chastisement that
he had impiously denied his Maker ; and
in that moment (though unconsciously to
himself) the core of his heart became
human, and as a child who bows to the
rod, so bowed he then to the hand of
God.

Hester had drawn near . . . nor years,
nor loss, nor anguish, could stifle in her that
throb of motherhood which had governed
the greater part of her life; and in this pale,
still shape she seemed to see once more the
Madcap whose life she had cut short by her
sin . . . seemed to see chances of redemption
even thus late in the day, though she
might now do no more than kneel to kiss
the pale hand that hung down, and which
Mr. Eyre instantly snatched away, as if trio
woman's touch were pollution.

Madcap opened her eyes on the instant
blaming herself for lack of courage ; and
meeting Hester's gaze, and reading its perfect
truth, sealed one of those silent compacts
that between true and generous souls
are seldom broken ; then took her father's
hand, and said :

Dad, take me home.'

The familiar epithet, used through all the
seventeen years of her beautiful childhood's-
love and trust in him, moved Mr. Eyre
naturally and profoundly . . . for a moment
his iron features relaxed, but the
next he put her aside, and turned to
Hester.

You will consider yourself under arrest,'
he said ; ' and until I can secure assistance
I will myself remain to watch you. And
now, child, if you arc able, get home with
you ; and since this confounded woman of

the house seems to be absent, send down
some people from the Hall'

Disobedience had never been bred in
Madcap's nature, but for a moment she
paused, and thought deeply ; then, with a
gesture to Hester that Mr. Eyre did not see,
went out, only to meet, on the threshold of
the open door. Lord Lovel.

I was going to look for you,' she said,
without a thought of self, and as a soul
might speak which has lost its body ; * there
is some frightful mistake here . . . for she
speaks the truth, and so does my father ;
and between them '

So here are more secrets,' said Mr. Eyre's
voice behind them ; and his glance fell cold
as ice on his daughter. 'These seems to bo a
conspiracy among you ; but a man is mostly
betrayed by his nearest and dearest. And
here is m^' tenant,' he added, as a woman

came up the narrow garden, exhausted by
the unusual business of a day spent in
Marmiton, no more expecting thieves than
debtors at the humble house that was
left on the latch, morning, noon, and
night.

Madcap stood between the two men whom
she loved best upon earth, her heart torn
between them, now espousing this side, now
that, but firm in faithfulness to her father,
whom she was resolved to save, though liovj
was a question of the future.

Your servant, miss,' said the woman,
curtseying low to Madcap and looking coldly
at Mr. Eyre. ' I left my house empty, but I
find it full,' and she turned a curious look
on Lord Lovel as she spoke.

Look you,' said Mr. Eyre, ' the woman
in that room yonder is a prisoner, and you
will see to it that she does not escape.'

And the charge against her, sir ?' said
the mistress of the house.

'False accusation and bearing of false
witness,' said Mr. Eyre grimly; 'but you
are in her pay, and not to be trusted. And
so you must go home, Madcap,' he added,
as he drew out his pocket-book, 'and send
a servant off on horseback at once with
these instructions;' and he wrote them down
with a firm hand, and gave her the torn-out
leaf without a tremor.

She took it as calmly as he gave it, not
knowing whence came the reserves of
strength that enabled her to meet this
fearful hour ; but, looking at him as she
turned away, saw a sudden, terrible change
in his face, and was barely in time to catch
him as he fell, swaying slowly as some
mighty monarch of the woods that quivers

VOL. III. 44

as with a mortal agony ere it crashes heavily
to the earth.

But Madcap was yoimg and strong to
love and save, and she neither sobbed nor
cried out, as, with Frank's help, they two
bore that beloved body up, the one his head
and the other his feet, and carried him in,
and laid him down where he seemed to lie
in a deep slumber, that was neither a
natural one, nor yet a swoon or stupor.
But to Madcap's mind a sentence of Hester
Clarke's was working to the exclusion of
every other thought or outward impression :
'He went downstairs as one ivlio walks in his
sleep.' . . . Suddenly she drew her hand
from her eyes, to see Frank standing near,
and looking at her earnestly.

Leave me now,' she said. ' There is
something that J must think out. I must
save him. But do not go away from the

house, for you must help me to get him
home presently.'

He went without a word — what could
any human being do for her in such an
hour as this % She drew down the thick
green blind to shut out the sunshine, and
seated herself in the twilight thus made
near the window, unconsciously occupying
the same chair, and in the same attitude, as
Hester Clarke had filled on a certain fatal
night, over seventeen years ago.

As one who walks in Ids sleep ' . . . and
from childhood Doune, who in mind and
body was Mr. Eyre's younger replica, had
walked in his, and had once startled his
sister by coming to her room at midnight,
light in hand, and, sitting down at her
table, read from a favourite book till dawn,
when, replacing the volume, he went awiiy,
though next morning; he recollected notbinii"

41—2

of the occurrence, and declared she had been
dreaming.

She bowed her head upon her hands, and
prayed for a sign ; and even as she prayed,
it came, for Mr. Eyre, waking suddenly, and
seeing that seated white figure in the gloom
beyond, advanced towards it with fury, and
lifted his hand violently, as if in act to
strike it.

But as she looked up, and he saw the
features of wife and daughter in one, he
stepped back, for he had found the lost link
in his memory that had escaped him seventeen
years . he had desired to kill Hester,
and he had killed . . . no, no ! it was impossible
; yet this last accident had determined
the course of his already unsettled
reason, and, before Madcap could reach him,
he had opened the door, and was gone.

There was a short cut from Synge Lane

to the Hall, and this he took, while Madcap
followed at a distance, dreading to startle
him, yet nourishing in her heart a clue to
what might be his redemption . . . and
behind her again came Frank, while in
the cottage two women clung together as
straws caught in the eddy of a whirlpool.


The sun was setting in a fashion that
betokened storm. Massed clouds of magenta
and purple were piled high above a sea
of palest green that melted imperceptibly
into rose, which burned again into vivid
gold, then flamed into red, while to right
and left stretched vast plains of mingled
hues that contrasted strongly with an ebony
cloud, through which there showed from
time to time little lovely islets of tender
translucent blue, ever shifting and widening
their shores, till, as the flame-colour sank

beneath the horizon, they became more
frequent, and touched with a purer light, as
if they had caught some reflection from
heaven beyond.

Once Madcap lifted her pale face to the
sky, but never once looked back . . . her
life was upheaved, and amidst its ruins she
saw only the figure that stalked before her,
upstanding yet, but at any moment in direst
need of her support.

On the threshold of the Red Hall she
paused, and turned her head, perhaps
feeling a faint pang that her eyes sought
in vain for Lord Lovel. And then the
door closed behind her, and the hardest
lesson of her life was before her to unriddle.

Could and eerie were the mrs
They rica kid them between:

;N hour after sunset Frank Lovel
walked in his woods, in which
there reigned the profound,
even awful stillness that affects some
persons in the same way as the strange,
shuddering fear of the sea that is shared by
nearly all animals.

He had no such fear, but his nerves were
unstrung, and often he looked behind, as if
expecting to see one whose footfall he
could not hear, and there was no joy in

the glance that scanned each avenue, glade,
and dell, though he knew that they had
come back to him as his own inheritance,
free of shame, that day.

But he saw only the girlish figure supporting
the father that she loved, and
whom his words had slain ; and he stood
still to smite his brow with his clenched
list, and curse himself that he had not lied
to him, and would have cursed himself
again for having yielded to the temptation
to revisit Lovel, when suddenly the remembrance
of Madcap's kiss fell upon him, and,
with an eerie sense of her mother near him,
he paused before the very trees by which
she had unconsciously foretold to him his
future.

They had been young chestnuts then,
and in autumn had elected to burst out
into an entire new suit of leaves and

flowers, and, struck by the sight, she had
said to him, 'Frank, don't those trees
make you think of a human life in more
ways than one ? Of a life that has been
happy, and all at once trouble came to it,
and stripped it of everything, just as the
chaffers came in spring, and destroyed the
leaves of these trees, leaving them bare,
when those around were beautiful and
happy ; but now, in autumn, just when alle

others are sober and dull, these have
their youth renewed, just as that life might
be even more beautiful and happy in its
autumn than its spring.'

But there are some lives, as there are
certain trees, that cannot be so renewed,'
Frank had said sadly ; ' once stripped of
happiness, the heart never stirs in them
again ; and, after all, these seem to me the
grandest trees, the noblest hearts.'

No !' Madcap had cried ; ' that which
has once loved for love's sake, been happy
for another's sake, may have thought it has
lost all, but yet carries it in itself to produce
as perfect fruit as any that has gone
before, and its second youth is possible, as
to that tree which has so boldly reversed
the edict of fate.'

But Frank had shaken his head . . .
there could be no second Madcap) to him in
the world ; or so he thought then, and lo I
as magically as the trees had been restored,
so to him in middle age had his youth been
renewed in the message she had left him —
the sweetest message that a woman could,
and that might have fulfilled itself in his
perfect happiness had not Mr. Eyre's crime
seemed to fur ever separate his daughter
and his friend.

Oh, Madcap ! Poor murdered Madcap !*

he said aloud, his loathing for the hand that
had so mercilessly slain her rising up withall
its old fierceness, and driving out pity
for the stricken man who yet persisted in
his lie of innocence to the end.

What could have been his motive ?
Frank wondered for the thousandth time.
Not jealousy, for he had no cause ; not fear
of Hester, for his was not a nature to know
fear ; not lack of love, for no woman was
ever so faithfully, jealously, fondly loved ;
nor could madness have prompted the deed,
for, if eccentric, Mr. Eyre had given no signs
of an unsettled reason, and during the trial
of Hester Clarke that ensued he gave each
day convincing proofs of the power and undimmed
brilliancy of his mind.

And this last was the most damning
blot of all — that, knowing himself guilty, he
should deliberately accuse, and bend all his

energies to hang, the woman whose only
sin had been that she had loved him, and
had wearied him. Strange, that if he must
kill one of the two who had so profoundly
loved him, he had not killed Hester, and
lived his life out happily enough with Madcap
; for surely conscience was dead in the
man who could not only successfully act a
living lie, but as between man and man
forfeit his honour by swearing falsely.

And upon his young daughter the shame,
the sin, the condemnation must fall ; and
Frank's heart grew cold as he recalled the
look on Madcap's face when, in possession
of the truth that he had withheld from her,
she lifted her eyes to his, and he saw the
awful change in her that one short hour
had worked.

How long ago was it that she had flouted
him, that she had smiled at him, that she

had stooped with love in her eyes, and
kissed him? How long since she had
looked at him with blazing eyes and called
him an assassin % And now she was alone,
able to sit down with folded hands and see
broken at her feet the religion, the love of
years . . . but no — no ! Not to sit above
them, but to gather up those poor remains,
to hug them to her breast, to warm them at
her heart, and in her father's ruin and dishonour
to cling to him more faithfully than
in the days of his pride !

For her sake, perhaps, Mr. Eyre, once
convinced of how futile was his attitude of
denial, would submit to his fate, and
beyond the few immediately concerned, no
one would be the wiser as to the real truth
concerning Mrs. Eyre's death ; but if he
persisted in his perjury, if he again accused
Hester Clarke, and forced into the witness-box

the man who had by word of mouth
received confession of the murder, as Hester
Clarke had been actually the witness of it,
then nothing could save him from the
public obloquy and disgrace that he had
deliberately drawn on himself.

Poor little sweetheart — little child !' he
said aloud, as he reached the cowslip-gate,
only to find that some one was leaning over
it — a somebody dio turned to stare at him
with something more than the usual savage
disgust with which the Englishman resents
an intrusion on his privacy.

This is not common property,' said
Gordon brusquely ; ' and this gate is used
only by visitors to or from the Red
Hall.'

His troubled angry eyes took a new

expression as they met Lord Lovel's, and a

■ suspicion that had been haunting him all

day leaped into jealous life as lie scanned
the face before him.

You are here to keep an appointment ?'
he said, his voice bitter with scorn and
pain : 'then I will withdraw, for even
trespassers have their rights.'

As Gordon turned, and Frank saw the
signs of misery in his face, it was suddenly
brought home to him how great a wrong; he
had done this young man, in suffering him
to be brought up in, and grow to. a position
from which at any moment he was liable to
be ousted. And more than that, alas ! for
had not propinquity, youth, and natural
tastes in common, made Madcap and he
one of those ideal pairs whose marriages
are said to be registered in heaven ? And
he had come between them.

I am no trespasser,' he said ; 'and it is
better that you should know the truth from

me than from ]Mr. Eyre. I am your cousin,
Frank Lovel ; but for certain reasons I
exchanged name and identity with Major
Methuen after his death

And these reasons ?' said Gordon, his
back to the gate, his eyes on the man who
for the moment he saw only as Madcap's
lover, not the rightful heir come to cast
him out of his kingdom ; ' they must be
strange ones, since no urgency on the part
of Mr. Eyre could force you to reveal them.'

He sought me as Methuen,' said Frank
slowly, ' now he knows me for myself ; and
whatever my faults may have been, he does
not despise me.'

'And you think it honourable to wear
one man's name, then quietly resume your
own, thereby cheating another out of his inheritance
— and more ?' said the young man,
with a contempt of look that stung like a

lash. ' There may be reasons why a man
should be ashamed to look another in the
face — why he should skulk, and hide, make
excuses (each a lie) rather than speak out ;
but I hope there are few who would steal
into an English gentleman's house in his
absence and win his daughter's affections
on false pretences.'

Let him keep who is able to win,' said
Frank grimly. ' You had your chance, and
you missed it. But on Mr. Eyre it depends
whether you keep the inheritance I deliberately
forfeited in your favour. If he elects
to keep silence on the circumstances that
led to my banishment, 1 shall at once leave
England, and for ever ; but if he insists on
raking up the whole dreadful business, I
have no choice but to remain, and appear as
witness.'

What business V said Gordon curtly.

VOL. III. 45

Has she not told you V exclaimed Frank.

I have not seen Miss Eyre since about
three o'clock this afternoon,' said Gordon,
when I happened to tell her that I saw
you departing in the same train from which
I got out. No doubt you had just left her,'
added the young man, with a forced sneer ;
and apparently you were in some haste to
return.'

In so much,' said Frank drily, ' that I
jumped out of the train as soon as it had
cleared the station, and instead of breaking
my neck, came off with a smashed arm ;
and, after all, it had better have been my
neck.'

'And you have been carrying it about
unset for nearly five hours !' exclaimed
Gordon ; * come up to the house — your own
house — man, and have it attended to.'

Presently,' said Frank, ' for I won't go

out of sight of the Hall. There will be
trouble there to-night, and worse tomorrow.'

What is it V said Gordon, thrusting
aside all thought of Madcap as he looked at
the pallid face, which bore fewer signs,
indeed, of triumph than of intense mental
and bodily pain.

You are bound to know, sooner or later,'
said Frank slowly, ' so you had better have
the truth now. Mr. Eyre murdered his
wife, and believed his crime undetected.
By an extraordinary accident, to-day he
has seen the only two persons on earth who
could have convicted him of it — Hester
Clarke and myself.'

Hester Clarke !' cried Gordon, in horror ;
why, that is the woman whom he suspected
— whom he caused to be imprisoned,
and nearly hanged on circumstantial evidence
!'

45—2

'And who would have submitted to he
hanged, rather than betray him,' said
Frank.

And the other witness V exclaimed
Gordon.

Is here,' and Frank touched his breast.
In Mr. Eyre's brain fever, after the trial,
he revealed every incident of the tragedy,
went through it in pantomime, and even
showed the place in which he had placed
the blood-stained knife found by Hester ;
but I believed these were mere hallucinations,
till, on describing them to her (for
she had lingered in the place to know the
issue of his dangerous illness), I saw such
signs in her face as convinced me that she
alone knew the real secret of Madcap's
death. Bit by bit, I wrung it from her ;
how she had seen the murder committed by
his hand ; but because she believed herself

instrumental in it, would have died rather
than accuse him.

Together we agreed to go different
ways, to leave him to fate, chance, himself ;
but as quickly as he had strength to move,
he set out in pursuit of me. No doubt you
have heard the story : how, after long
search, he thought he came up with me at
Sevastopol, but only to confound me with
another man, whose body he brought home,
and who was buried in my name. I had
been dangerously wounded by Methuen's
very side, and when I came to myself, was
on board a steamer, sent home as a hopeless
invalid, and with my name and personality
changed to that of 'methuen." No one in
the ship had known either of us by sight ;
half the officers in my regiment were dead,
or had remained to fight ; there was not a
soul to swear to my real identity ; but 1

had forgotten that in taking Major
Methuen's name I had also incurred his
responsibilities, and only afterwards remembered
that he had a mother to whom
he was most deeply attached, and who was,
no doubt, watching the papers eagerly for
news of him each day.

I resolved to go to her, to tell her the
truth ; but on landing I became so ill that
the doctors gave me over, and I sent for
her — only to be wept over with tears of joy
as her son. I could not tell her then ; but
later, when I had turned the corner, I did.
At first she would not believe it, declared
that the injury to my head had affected my
brain, and that she could swear to me asher
own child ; nor was this idea ever
uprooted from her mind, and from then
till the time of her death, I made my
home with her as her son, and came to

love her as if she had really been my
mother.

We travelled constantly, but rarely
visited London. At the end of thirteen
years, I saw announced the death of Mr.
Eyre on board the sailing ship Arizona,
and I resolved to return to England, and,
as a stranger, re visit Lovel to see Job, and
decide whether I would resume the name I
had deliberately forfeited. I arrived just intime
to hear his last words, and remained
long enough to get the news that Mr. Eyre
was safe, and would soon return ; but between
the two events I had seen Madcap.'


Gordon lifted his head, and looked at the
man who had so bitterly wronged him, yet
had so bitterly suffered. And in his
jealous, passionate heart began to stir something
of the old hero-worship that had

made his dead cousin a living example to
this own life.

It was here that I saw her, and I
thought it was her mother's spirit that came
tripping over the cowslip-heads to meet me,
for I believed Mrs. Eyre's infant to be dead,
and here was her living image, just as
lovely, as sweet, as dear ; and she spoke tome,
she was kind to me, and I fell in love
with her. I had never ceased to love her
mother, and this new love was but a continuation
of the old. I knew the last to be as
hopeless as the first ; that, face to face
with Mr. Eyre, I could not have hidden my
knowledge of his crime, and rather than
accuse him, I again left England, resolved
never to return. But Mrs. Methuen's increasing
illness brought us back to London,
and though I shunned my fellow-men, accident
one evening brought me face to face

with him. He recognised me on the spot,
and thenceforth pursued me. I was tied to
the house where my adopted mother hxy
dying, and somehow managed to evade him.
Meanwhile, I saw you sometimes, and
envied you. You were to be Madcap's
husband, and report said that she looked
at no man but you. My mother died, and
was removed to the country for burial,
and I was following her the next day, when,
driving in opposite directions, I met Madcap.'


He paused, then said abruptly :
I don't know why I am telling you all
this, but that 1 want you to know I have not
acted in as underhand a way as you supposed.
I followed her to the rose-show ;
we spoke, and parted. 1 never expected to
see her again ; and, having buried my
mother, came straight here yesterday. To

my surprise, I found Hester Clarke in the
village, bent on one of those visits to
Body's grave that were impossible when
Mr. Eyre was at home. Never was there a
more fatal one than this, for without her
evidence Mr. Eyre might have feigned to
believe me[ a madman ; but they have met,
and he has forced from her every detail of
the murder.'

Whose murder ?' said the voice of Doune
close behind them, and the two men turned
to see a younger image of Mr. Eyre, pale,
and with flashing eyes that looked from one
to the other in angry question. ' I am no
eaves-dropper,' he added, before either could
speak, ' and always go this way to the Ked
Hall. But I could not help hearing certain
words that demand an explanation. You
and I ' (he turned to Gordon) ' always knew
the accusations against the dear old father

but it will be curious if a stranger proves
them true.'

He got no answer, only averted looks,
for here was a difficulty for which neither
was prepared. Perhaps Gordon knew best
how the long alienation between father and
son had been gradually broken down, till
only love and trust lay between them ; but
Frank remembered the stubborn childish
hate that had vexed the boy's mother, and
saw new misery for Mr. Eyre ahead.

Are you both dumb T cried the young
man fiercely ; ' then I will get the truth from
my father!' and he flung the gate open, and
crossed the meadow.

Unfit to live or die — marble heart I
After him fellow / drag him to the Mod:'

*R. EYRE had locked himself in his
study on his return, and though
he had not tasted food since his
arrival at noon, none durst disturb him —
not even Madcap, who forced herself to
eat, knowing the work that lay before
her.

But later she heard sounds like blows on
the locked door, and ran out to see Doune
standing pale and grim as fate waiting for
admittance ; and even as she would have

drawn him back, the bolts revolved, and
Mr. Eyre faced them, gaunt and terrible ;
though while he beckoned the son in, he
shut the daughter out.

Father,' said Doune, as they stood face
to face, ^ did you kill my mother ?'

So they say,' said Mr. Eyre ; ' for there
are two witnesses — the one who saw it, and
the one to whom I confessed it. Yet I
swear that I am innocent of the deed, and
they are either mad or conspirators who
accuse me.'

Who are your accusers ?' said Doune.

Something in his son's voice smote him
like a blow ; but Mr. Eyre's face only
hardened as he said :

You will find both in the village :
their names are Hester Clarke and Frank
Lovel.'

Frank Lovel !' exclaimed Doune, starting

violently. ' He is dead — or was your
bringing of his body home a — a '

Call it a lie, if you will.' said Mr. Eyre
coldly, ' and believe everything against me
that is possible. To-night I am arranging
my affairs ; tomorrow morning I send to
Busby, as the nearest magistrate, and surrender
myself at Marmiton Gaol. Either
those who have falsely accused me shall
come forward to bear witness against me,
or I will reckon them the basest traitors
that ever dish-raced God's earth. Against
the traitors of my own household I cannot
guard. Go to your sister — if she is not
abroad with her lover. I have work todo,
and must be alone to-night.'

For a moment the eyes of father and son
met as antagonists ; then Doune, without a
word, turned and went out.

Madcap was waiting, but only by the

light she held made herself known as she
followed him to the room where hung that
picture of his mother to which he had
turned in his every childish and boyish
trouble, and in whose lineaments now he
seemed to trace a shadow of the awful fate
that had overtaken her.

Mother — mother /' he said aloud ; then
saw Madcap standing there, pale, and with
down-bent head, yet with a vigour in her
attitude that did not betoken despair.

So it is true,' he said slowly, ' and all
these years he has been a living and acting
lie; and I was right when, as a child, I
hated him for driving me from her — for he
was jealous, and he killed her.'

He dashed one hand across his eyes,
shuddering violently, and Madcap did not
dare to approach him till the paroxysm was
past ; then stole gently to his side, and said :

It is true that he killed her — luit he
does not know it.'

Doune laughed, and never had father and
son shown a more remarkable resemblance
to each other than in that moment. ' The
very extravagance of gesture and voice were
identical ; yet Madcap's heart rose, rather than
sank, as she saw each token of Mr. Eyre's
mental trouble reproduced in her brother.

He killed her, and he does not know it !'
said the young man, his haggard eyes seeking
that beloved mother-face ; ' you talk
madness. . . Oh, unnatural wretch !' he cried,
striking; his foot against the floor ; ' and
she loved him — she died in his arms ; she
could scarcely spare a look even for her
children ! And with that awful knowledge
in his heart, with her blood upon his hand,
he could seem to love, to cherish us '

And he with' said Madcap firmly.

What ! is it all blotted out in your mind,
how he has had no thought — no care for
himself all these years, but only for iis'^
And now that he needs us most, shall we
repay him with ingratitude ? Do not judge
him to-night, or by the morning you may be
sorry.'

Doune drew back, and looked at her with
the first unkind fiance he had. even her in
his life.

Women have strange minds,' he said
harshly ; ' they will cling to and fawn on
the hand that destroys them ; but to a mana
fact is a fact, tomorrow is not to-day.
Does he mean to escape to-night ?' he
added, turning to her suddenly ; * for that
would be the most cowardly act of all ; and
you would be a criminal to assist him, since
his sole act of grace would be to confess, and
clear the woman he accused.'

VOL. III. 46

^ He will not escape,' said Madcap coldly,
but with her heart beating fast. ' Are you
going to stay here to watch him V she
added, with a gibe in her voice that brought
the blood to his pale cheek.

Not I ; it would suffocate me to remain
under the same roof with him. No doubt

I can find a lodging in the woods ' He

paused as if struck by a sudden thought ;
then said — ' My father spoke of you as
probably abroad with a lover. Did he
mean Gordon V

No,' said Madcap, as naturally as if she
had said * Yes.'

The father first, the sister next,' said
Doune ; ' is there anyone left on earth to
trust V

There is Nanciebel,' said Madcap.

Sorely tried as she was, the old invincible
spirit looked out of her eyes, and a hidden

source of happiness within dared to breathe
softly, while a secret hope of saving her
father lent strength to go through with her
work to the end.

For a moment Doune's face softened, then
grew hard as iron.

I love her,' he said ; ' but if I had known
yesterday what I know to-day, I would not
have asked her to be my wife. A felon's son
may inherit more than physical traits, and a
young girl's life may not be safe with him. '

Has she no courage V said Madcap, with
a scorn instantly repented of, as she saw
how intense his suffering was. * My dear,'
she said, putting her arms round him, ' go
home to Gordon. By the morning I may
have something to tell you that will clear
our father. Or' — her voice sank lower —
there may be fresh misfortunes that I
prefer to face alone.'

4()— 2

You always loved him best,' said Donne
jealously, as he turned away, ' just as she
did '

But you have your Naneiebel,' she said
softly, as if the thought of loving, and being
loved, had for a moment thrust her father
from her mind.

'And you have your lover,' he said
bitterly. * I don't know his name.

His name is Lord Lovel,' she said
proudly.

The man who has masqueraded so long
as Major Methuen ; the man I saw just
now in Lovel woods talking; with Gordon ?'

'Yes,' said Madcap; 'he will not runaway
any more — he means to stay.'

Madcap !' cried the young man, seizing
her hand, ' what does all this mean ? You
admit yourself to be the dupe of a madman
whom you have become acquainted with in

some clandestine manner, and you deliberately
tell me in one and the same breath
that our father is at once guilty and
innocent.'

If Frank Lovel is mad, then I am mad
too,' said Madcap ; ' but tomorrow morning

she paused, and thought of those

desperate issues of the night to which she
was committed, and through which none
might help her — ' perhaps by tomorrow
light will have come . . . and if you ever
prayed for us, Doune — for father and me —
you weill pray for us to-night.'

But there was less of prayer than of
cursing in Doune's heart as he loosed his
sister's hand and strode away.

/ had happier died hj thee,
Than lived on as Lady Lelgh,^

Use faded into darkness before
Madcap moved from where Doune
had left her ; then she stole to
the library door, but a profound silence
reigned within, and she went softly out to
the courtyard to see if her father had kindled
lights.

But the shutters were closed, and only
the stars gave a clue to the figure that
crouched close against the window, and to
which Madcap drcAv closer, till she touched

it, but got no answer save a shudder of
fear, as if the touch of a policeman, not a
friend, were on its arm.

• You are Hester Clarke,' said Madcap
below her breath, and lifted a fold of the
cloak that hid the woman's face ; then said,
Come with me,' in a voice there was no
resisting, even if her hand had not drawn
the intruder With her towards the stone
steps that led to the nursery.

What memories thronged round Hester
as she ascended them . . . yet, as one who
Walked in a dream, she followed the girl
into the room where Dody had died on her
knees, and she had been dragged away as
the murderer of his mother.

A lamp burned dimly — by its light the
two looked at each other ; then Hester sank
to her knees, and with trembling, kissed the
girl's hand.

Why do you do that ?' said Madcap ;
^ for you have done no wrong. You spoke
this afternoon of your sin, your weakness;
but to me it seems that you have behaved
nobly.'

Lower the woman's head sank till her
face was hidden, and only a keen ear could
have caught the words, ' You don't know
. . and I can't find words to tell you.'

Tell me,' whispered Madcap, with a
chill foreboding that pierced even her absorption
in what lay before her, yet with
her eyes fixed on the windows of the opposite
wing.

I don't know how the words struggled
out, how the confession was made . . . but
the worst was over, when Madcap knelt,
and lifted the dark head to her breast, and
heard the rest through half-broken sobs, as
Hester leaned against her.

• It was just so that she put her arms
round me . . . once in the copse Avhen
she only knew me as a stranger, and m
trouble, and again when she knew nothing
but ill of me . . . it was the very day she
died, and my heart was full of envy and
bitterness when we met . I meant to
steal her child when she was safely over
her trouble; and in this very room I told
\'Our father that he should suffer for his
sins through lie. And he thought that I
meant to kill her; and he never knew how,
half an hour later, she and I came face to
face, and I don't know which of us spoke
first . . . but she kissed me, and I swore
to myself then, that no matter what came
to me, I would never harm her, nor anyone
that she loved. Perhaps some foreboding
touched her, though she seemed so happy,
for she said when Ave parted, " I am grid

that I have understood you — at last ;" and
once she looked back, and there was something
so solemn and sweet in her eyes, that
after she had gone, I cried, with a presentiment
that I should never see her
again.'

Hester paused, and shivered through and
through.

But I saw her once more . I could
not let well alone, and I stole here late at
night to see Dody . he was my one joy
on earth, my idol, and I knew him to be
ill, though Josephine hid it from your
mother ; and though it tore my heart in
two, I resolved that night to go away, and
not even let my shadow come between your
father and that lovely, sweet soul. . ,'

Perhaps you can't understand it,' she
went on, lifting her head, ' that a woman
should love a young child so . . . but

perhaps it is because he is so young, because
his ways are so dear, and that every
passionate instinct of protection is roused
by him in one's breast, that one loves him
so. . . Do you think a mother bears with a
grown-up child's ingratitude because she
loves him as he is ? No ! but because she
remembers him as he was, and his words
and looks come back to her . . . and Dody
was the living image of what my own child
might have been. . .'

She drew a little away from ]madcap as
she spoke, but the girl did not shrink ; it
seemed to her that nothing new could come
to her now . . . since yesterday she had
touched every note of the whole gamut of
human joy and sorrow.

I had barely time to kiss him,' resumed
Hester, forcing herself to the end of lier
narration, ' when steps approached from

outside, and I had just time to hide myself
before Lord Lovel came in. He approached
Dody's bed, but made no search for me,
and went through to the day nursery, being-met
there by Josephine. Here was my
opportunity ; I kissed my dear love and
stole away, but a light in his mother's
room seemed to beckon me, and I crossed
the courtyard meaning only to look up, and
bespeak her a blessing before I went.

My foot struck against something hard
as I stood outside the library window ; I
put out my hand, and found it was a
ladder, and some mad impulse made me
climb it. You know the rest . . . would
to God he had killed me, not her, that
night !'

Xo,' said Madcap, in a low voice, ' for
if he had killed you, it would have been
murder — he would have done it with intention

; but with my mother ' she

checked herself suddenly, then said :

I have work to do to-night, and you
must help me. I meant to go through
with it alone, but as you saved him once,
so you shall help to save him again ; only
differently, for then you will know that in
heart and spirit he is — innocent.'

Both were standing now, and Madcap
saw how a kind of incredulous fear spread
over Hester's face; then the woman stooped,
and humbly kissed her hand.

Set me what work you will,' she said ;
the harder the better.'

Listen,' said Madcap. ' It is now ten
o'clock, and I will tell the servants (there
are only three ; the others are in town) to
shut up the house and go to bed. No one
will come here, and I will brinir you food,
and then — then '

The girl did not finish her sentence as
she ran out, and Hester stood immovable
for awhile, then crossed the room to where
Dody's little bed had once stood, and with
a sob kneeled down beside the empty space,
and covered her face with her hands.

Was her sin never to be blotted out ?
was it to go on fulfilling itself in endless
cycles of suffering, that involved the innocent
more cruelly than the guilty ?

She was kneeling there still when madcap
returned, and the sound of her own
weeping made inaudible those light steps
that presently stopped beside her.

Come and eat,' said the girl latina
gentle hand on the still beautiful head,
now abased to the very dust.

Hester rose at once, and went to the
table, set out with bread and meat and
wine.

When she had forced herself to eat and
drink, she said to Madcap, who was watching
the opposite wing :

'I am ready.'

Madcap put out her hand, and without a
word led her down the stone steps into the
courtyard.

We must be quick,' she said, ' for he
may go upstairs at any moment ;' and
hand in hand the two ran to a tool-house
that was dark as pitch, but from which
Madcap presently issued, staggering under
the weight she bore.

It was the ladder that first Hester had
climbed, then Digges, lastly Mr. Eyre ;
and it felt like lead to Hester as she lifted
ouQ end up, and with an instinctive knowledge
of Madcap's purpose, led the Away.

When it was firmly placed — but so
quietly that none within could liavc heard

a sound, the girl drew the woman aside,
and said :

I am asking you something hard — but
you said the harder the better ; and it is
for Ms sake ; and if you should feel the cold
out here, you will knoAv there is some one
colder still within. . .'

What shall I do ?' said Hester, in a
whisper.

You will watch my mother's window — ■
the room which is still my father's bedchamber.
The moment you see a light
within, 3rou will climb the ladder and
watch. No matter what happens, you
must not cry out, or speak. You must not
interfere . if he should kill me, you
will steal away as you did before, and keep
his secret ; but by the morning ' (she
touched Hester's hand) ' I think that to
both of us light Avill have come.'

Said I not that all God sends is good ? Only generally
it is not until the morning that tue see why He denied ns
something in the evenings

Gesfa Bomanoruni.

jOW do inspirations, desperate resolves,
enter a human soul ?
Are the' kindled by sheer agony,
longing, or prayer ? But to Madcap) a
divine message seemed to have come, when
at midnight lie went with trembling' liml)s
to the room which was to be the scene of
her desperate experiment.

In the study below, ]mr. Eyre worked
swiftly and monotonously tlu-ouiiii the
VOL. III. 47

business that most concerned him and his,
until all Alas in order, and his man of
business, or his executor — nay, his daughter
e'en — could find no difficulty in fulfilling
his last wishes and administering his
estate.

His wife's love-letters to him were duly
secured in his breast ; the old Army-Guide
lay open on the table, with the name
Methuen ' scored out, and ' Lovel ' marked
with red ink in its place; but among the
sealed letters lay one with neither seal nor
enclosure, though it was addressed to ' Miss
Eyre.'

The confusion of his mind had by now
subsided, leaving only a fixed belief in
Hester's ffuilt, in Frank's confirmed madness,
and Madcap's profound deceit ; while
of Doune he scarcely thought at all.

But with pen in hand, ready to write

down scathing words of reproach (for he
meant to give himself up to justice on the
morrow, and force his accusers to appear
before him), he suddenly fell into a sound
sleep or stupor, his eyes fixed on the unsullied
page, his hand rigid, his whole body
immovable, as if struck to stone by a
wizard's wand.

For half an hour he sat thus. Then,
still in that cabalistic trance, laid down
the pen, stretched his hand to the light,
which he lifted ; then with even steps
crossed the room to the private stair communicating
with his bedroom.

Two women, who had grown cold With
watching, even in the midst of summer
heat, saw the zigzag light of the candle
showing on the corkscrew staircase, heard
the steps ascend, then saw Mr. Eyre enter,
the light wavering over this fixed face and

47—2

wide opened eyes — heavens ! in Ids
sleep f Almost aloud Madcap prayed it,
as at spirit of the white fissure seated in
his wife's chair he stopped short, then
advanced with violence towards lier, feeling:
in his breast as for a weapon ; then,
turning as by remembered instinct to the
cabinet near, opened a drawer, in imagination
snatched a knife, and stabbed at her,
once, twice, exclaiming ' Die ! die /' in a
voice of fury. Then, making as though
he replaced the weapon, turned, and went
down the staircase, holding the light
steadily, and with no sign of either hurry
or discomposure on his features.

She followed him down love's work
being not completed yet, and saw him seat
himself at the table; but Avhen, trembling,
lie stole nearer, she saw by his wide-open
fixed eyes that he was still asleep, though

his folded arms rested on the edges of a
large book that he had opened and set
before him.

Then Madcap kneeled down beside him,
knowing that her prayer had been granted,
and that love's miracle had saved him . . .
then sight and sense failed her, and she fell
forward with her bright hair veiling her
face, as her head sank on his knee.

^ .AZ. .U. .&> .M*

^ ^ ^ ^ ^

Hester Clarke had entered with amazement
and terror into Madcap's scheme that
night, for she went blindfold, and without
the clue upon which the girl's hand had so
firmly closed.

She had climbed the ladder with fear,
and nearly lost her balance on it, when,
through the half open window, she saw
the room with everything in it arranged
exactly as when she had last seen it,

seventeen years ago — the very chair, the
very figure seated in it, completed the
picture that was graven on her heart.

The jewel-cases lay open on the table,
and a lace handkerchief on the smaller one
beside Madcap, just as Mrs. Eyre had tossed
it down on the diamonds that Josephine's
covetous eyes had detected an hour later,
and stolen with Digges's knowledge, to lier
own undoing and his . . . nothing was
needed to complete Hester's illusion that
she was dreaming, save Mr. Eyre's appearance
on the scene ; and, icy cold with fear
and apprehension, she awaited it.

The night wore on. She put one arm
within the stone casement to steady herself
the better; but she never once tried to
attract the attention of the quiet figure that,
seated with its back to lier, seemed not to
have moved a muscle since she approached.

But all the past fulfilled itself, even to
the minutest detail, when Mr. Eyre's light
showed on the stair, and in pantomime he
repeated each gesture, each blow, she had
seen him use when he killed his wife. But
to her older eyes (as to Madcap's young-ones)
a clearer light had come ; and as Mr.
Eyre disappeared, and the girl followed
him, it was borne in upon her how, not by
her sin alone, but by her testimony against
him, she had committed an irreparable
wrong.

All Alas explained now : his firm belief
in her guilt; his pursuit of her, and
strenuous endeavours to get her hanged ;
his search for Lord Lovel ; and his hatred
for the friend who could hurl a false accusation
(as Mr. Eyre believed) against him,
then run away, as if too cowardly to even
try and substantiate the lie ) the inward

sense of innocence sustaining him, so that
suspicion passed him by unscathed, and he
could exclaim, ^ This hand is innocent I' . . .
ay ! as in sooth it was, if it committed
automatically a deed from which the will,
consent, and controlling power of the mind
Averse absent.

A great wave of love, of pit', swept over
Hester's soul as she bowed her head on
the casement, and thought of how he must
have suffered, of how infinitely more he
must suffer yet. when the truth should
reach him from his daughter's lips.
Perhaps he was learning it below even
now ; but her heart sank lower and lower,
as the minutes passed, and no sign fi^om
Madcap came to release her from her post.

Towards dawn a slight stir reached her
ear, and the next moment she heard steps
rising from the study, and saw the flicker

of a lio'ht on the Avail. She leaned forward

o

with a half sob of relief, only to shrink
back as she saw Mr. Eyre enter, pale asa
corpse indeed, but awake!

'How could she ever have mistaken him?'
she wondered, as, weak and numbed, she
cowered down, invisible from within the
lamp-lit room, though without, in the clear,
strengthening dawn, she might be distinctly
seen, and was every moment in danger of
discovery.

He set the lio-ht down, and for the last
time approached the cabinet about which
for seventeen years his brain had held some
secret knowledge that defied him.

Hester heard him open a drawer, and
then followed a long and profound silence,
in which, for the last time, the one half of
his brain struggled with the other ; and ashe
had wruni>' the truth from Lord Lovel

o

and Hester that day, so now he thought he
forced the lock of that sealed chamber which
had defied him, and saw. All was apparently
clear to him now — the seated figure by the
window in Synge Lane that he had desired
to kill was Hester ; the figure that he had
actually killed in a fit of madness of which
he had no memory was his wife, and he
had put the knife back in the cabinet as the
woman described . he remembered nov,
that the cry for help that night had roused
him fi'om a dream of appalling vividness, in
which he was in the act of stabbing Hester
to the heart, and even woke with a passionate
feeling of exultation that he was
rid of her, and that his wife's happiness
was now secure.

When Parnassus struggled to depict the
supreme agony of which a human being
is capable, he covered the slice of the man he

delineated, and only by the attitude of the
limbs and hands revealed the intention of
his work. Some such awful expression
stole slowly over ]mr. Eyre's averted head
and body, as Hester for a few frozen seconds
watched him ; then, without a sound, she
shrank out of sight and crept down the
ladder, whence, regaining Madcap's empty
room, she sat down by the window to watch.

// is conscience that jjreserrss the right of the ivill.^

ADCAP came out of that long
slumber feeling like a soldier
who has lain clown to sleep at
the post of duty, for the room was empty,
the fresh morning; wind blew in through the
open window, and the village clock was
striking the hour of nine.

Signs of Mr. Eyre's late presence were
visible in the cloak he had wrapped about
her, and the pillow he had placed beneath
her head ; and when a hasty glance round
assured her that he had left no letter, she

persuaded herself that his absence was but
momentary, and going to the foot of the
private staircase, she listened for signs of
him above. A quick step in the room made
her turn, only to start back as at a frightful
apparition, for all dishevelled, his hair
wet with dew, his gaze wild, and his mien
that of a madman, her brother stood before
her.

'0 God!' he cried, before she could
speak, ' that he can breathe — that he can say
This hand did the deed,' and yet it does
not wither — his tongue is not struck dumb
by fire from the heaven to which he sent
her ! Mother — poor murdered mother ! —
perhaps you knew it, and forgave him — liirn^
inhuman wretch ! — whom you loved better
than your children. Hearken !' (he seized
Madcap's hand in a grip of steel, pouring
out his words with such rapidity that it was

impossible to check him) ; ' all night I have
wandered in the woods with a hell in my
breast, with the hatred of Cain for Abel
burning in me against our father. In vain I
have sought excuses, have tried to persuade
myself the murder was no murder, but an
accident, or some hideous mischance ; I
forced myself to recall his care of me, his
tenderness for you ; I reviewed the upright
life he has led ever since I was old
enough to judge between right and wrong,
and by morning I had subdued that unnatural
hatred, and longed only to be face
to face with him, to hear any explanation —
any palliation of the crime that might
render him less abhorrent to me ; and it was
with even a faint feeling of hope that I
sought him here.'

Madcap strove to speak — to interpose,
but Doune's vehement words swept hers

aside as straws in a torrent, and she could
only wait till, by this violence, lie had exhausted
himself.

I found him ; God knows what thoughts
swelled my heart as I approached him — of
our mother, of Dody, of you, of her — for she
loves me, Madcap . I have caught a timid
look now and then . . . and her voice — but
I have heard it for the last time '

No, no !' cried Madcap, as for the first
time he paused, and an expression of despairing
tenderness crossed his convulsed
features ; ' she loves you, and our father is
innocent '

Innocent !' cried Doune, turning upon
her with a frenzied gesture of intolerant
contempt. ' He owned the deed — he avowed
it without ruth or shame ; he offered not
one word in condonation, and seemed to
forget it was my mother to whose murder

lie so indifferently confessed. Even to my
curses '

You have cursed him !' cried Madcap,
sinking down in terror. * Oh, you know not
what you have done ! Father, poor father !'
and she moved as though to go in search of
him.

Say rather '' Poor mother /" ' said Doune,
in a voice that brought tears to Madcap's
eyes, though his own still retained the
hard, strained look that so alarmed her.
Murdered,' he went on rapidly, and gazing
before him as at some frightful sight — ' her
life-blood ebbing away under the arm that
clasped Dody and I when we kissed her last;
and Frank Lovel's life ruined, and mine too,
and hers . . . and beyond all these, Hester
Clarke and Janet Stork, more victims to his
sins ; and this is the man we have loved, we
have honoured '

And whom we may love and honour
still,' cried Madcap, swift as light ; ' for he
committed the murder in his sleep P

For a moment Doune's face worked
strangely, and she thought he trembled on
the verge of dreadful laughter ; but to her
joy a more rational expression overspread
his features, as he said :

'Is it with such wild hopes as these you
buoy yourself up, Madcap ? So that's why
you are bright, although so pale ; and a
moment ago I thought you heartless, hateful
even, to look so. 1 think I have been
mad ;' he passed his hand over his eyes,
out of which the wild, strained expression
was gradually disappearing ; ' Jut a man's
brain might turn for less, and now there's
the litter, black reality to be faced, and
lived through to our lives' end. But at
least we have one another.'

VOL. III. 48

Involuntarily he held out his arms, and
for a moment the brother and sister clung
to each other desperately, and not as in their
happy, childish days.

Then Doune would have put her aside,
but she would not let him go ; she forced
him to hear her, though, as her story progressed,
she had less trouble on that point,
till its end saw him standing breathless and
white before her, but with the dawn of
something like hope overspreading his
features.

Then she reminded him of how he had
walked constantly in his sleep during those
dangerous days of his youth, when brain
had overmastered body, and he had slipped
towards those shadowy boundaries that divide
reason from madness ; again she brought to
his mind the story of Brandon Eyre, and
how, though his guilt was clearly proved, he

swore his innocency, and died by his own
hand rather than live dishonoured ; his
grandmother, Lady Sara, afterwards swearing
that she could explain it all, though her
explanation was never given.

All this Madcap urged on her brother
with a swiftness that exceeded even his own
vehemence of a few minutes before, and
stopped only to leave him confounded at
the weight of evidence she brought to
establish her marvellous assertion that, in
truth, their father was, in all save deed,
innocent.

A knock at the door disturbed them
before he could speak, and Saunders entered,
bearing a letter that at the first
glance Madcap saw to be from her
father.

The old servant's face was sad as he
handed it, and looked from the once face to

48—2

the other. No one knew better than he
that trouble had come to the Red Hall,
though he little guessed its extent.

Madcap tore open the letter, and, in Mr.
Eyre's firm handwriting, read the following
:

Madcap — child — beloved daughter — by
the time you receive this I shall have delivered
myself up to justice for the murder
of your mother. In heart and hand I am
guilty, and will suffer for it in due course.
She has forgiven me — perhaps in time you
who have been the joy of my life, the light
of my eyes, my good and (except in one
instance) most faithful daughter — you who,
in the two darkest hours of my life, have
come to me, and perchance love me still, intime
may learn to forgive your most unhappy,
guilty father,

'Eyre.'

She kissed the letter before she gave it to
Doune. She saw how he had scored out
Miss Eyre ' and written ' Madcap ' on the
envelope instead, and by that mute tokeii
knew how he had forgiven her the one deception
towards him of her life.

But how, without her help to guide him.
had he become convinced of his guilt ? had
Hester blundered, or, with only vague instructions
to guide her, meddled fatally in
the business of the night ? Forgetful of
Doune even, she ran up the secret stair,
and into the empty room, now flooded with
morning light ; then she looked out and saw
the ladder against the wall, then opposite to
where from the nursery a pale face seemed
to beckon her — the face of Hester, not Nan.

Nan, indeed, had knocked outside her
young mistress's door for some time without
getting any answer, and had then retired to

breakfast, she being as ignorant as the
other women of what had been going on in
the house that night.

• Mr. Eyre had always been a master
whose habits must be neither questioned
nor interfered with ; his daughter's, too,
were so far like his own, that if she happened
to take a walk at daybreak, no one
dreamed of supposing her to be drowned,
or fished for her in the surrounding ponds
and puddles. So that when Madcap
crossed the courtyard, it would have
seemed the most natural thing in the
world (had there been any onlookers) that
she should have risen early, and gone over
to put flowers in her father's study, already
set straight against his unexpected return,
though her dress was the tumbled one she
had worn throughout that dreadful but
most blessed night.

Hester sprang up as the girl entered, and
the two pale faces turned to one another.

You know now f said Madcap, out of
breath, and with the hurry of imminent
need compelling her to abrupt speech ; ' and
so you will come with me, and we will bear
witness together for him. . . .'

Her voice ceased in a sob as she began to
pull off her gown ; then vanished, only to
reappear fresh bathed, and dressed in something
white as snow, and with an eager
look of hope on her face that contrasted
forcibly with the pallor and pain stamped
on Hester's features.

Then, hand-in-hand, the women went
down the steps together, the one lightly,
the other heavily, and as if the three-mile
walk to Marmiton were beyond her
strength.

Since thunder stricken . . .

Fixed in the spectral strain and throe

Wherewith it struggled from the blow . . .'

Meanwhile an extraordinary
scene was being enacted at Marmiton
Gaol. At eight o'clock
Mr. Eyre had walked in and given himself
in custody for the murder of his wife ; and
before the dreadful confession had properly
reached the brain of the Governor, who
imagined Mr. Eyre to have suddenly gone
mad, named Hester Clarke as witness to
the deed, and Lord Lovel as being well
acquainted with the fact.

The man was at first stupefied ; but
Mr. Eyre persisting in Hs story, and showing
no other signs of madness, in less than
an hour his brother magistrates were summoned,
and a scene of the utmost confusion
among them prevailed.

He alone was calm, and asked that no
one might be admitted to his cell, especially
his daughter — and as he named her, the first
sign of emotion he had yet shown crossed
his features.

To Lord Lovel, who was present, and
who vainly implored him to withdraw his
self-accusation, he said he was resolved on
doing his duty, and hoped Frank would do
his, and make Hester Clarke do hers ; for
that though he had disbelieved their story
yesterday, in the night he had become convinced
of its truth.

He added that Lord Lovel's knowledge

of it had exiled him, and no doubt was the
reason of his acquiescence in the case of
mistaken identity, by which ]\lajor Methuen
had been buried under his name, and many
living persons persuaded that Lord Lovel,
not the other, had died.

Colonel Busby had for once absolutely
collapsed under the shock of a double surprise
; for though he had all along been
convinced that Mr. Eyre was the real
murderer, he had never expected him to
confess it. He had been equally convinced
that Mr. Eyre was at the bottom of Frank
Lovel's death, until the arrival of the
former with his friend's body, and certain
well-authenticated facts ]proved the young
man to have died in battle, and even the
supposition that a mistake of identity had
been made, was negatived by the recognition
that, from Job downwards, all gave

hin as he lay in humble state at the
Towers.

Yet the man lived — was here to stand
forth for the man whom he knew to be a
murderer ; the man who had stolen his
sweetheart, filched his good name, banished
him from home and country, yet accepted
all these favours without a sion of gratitude
in the past, or of recognition to-day.

More than one might have pressed forward
to take the hand of the soldierly,
bronzed man, who at forty-three was handsomer
far than at twenty-five — the last
date of his public appearance by Mr. Eyre's
side — but that, as usual, the latter fixed all
eyes, occupied all but transient thoughts,
to the exclusion of every other soul present.
The greater part of them thought him mad,
for Digges's suicide had practically proved
him the murderer, while his Avise's possession

of the diamonds attested to the reason
for the deed.

He was reminded of this, but remarking:
carelessly :

She must have stolen them after the
discovery of the deed ; and he, poor Wretch,
knew it,' turned as if to seek his cell,
when he found himself detained by the
clasp of two loving arms, and felt the print
of a warm kiss upon his hand.

He looked down, and saw his daughter :
beyond her, Hester Clarke, With a curious
mixture of shame and gladness on her
weary face.

There's your other witness,' he said,
pointing to her, and with no signs of ruth
for the wrongs he had worked her visible
in his glance, any more than of gratitude
for the splendid part she had acted towards
him.

What do you do here, child ?' he said
abruptly to Madcap ; ' I told them not to
admit you ; but I suppose a prisoner's
word has no weight. And I can better
bear to know myself what I am, than to
read such knowledge in your eyes.'

The last words were inaudible to all save
the girl, who but held that beloved hand
the closer, and kissed it yet again as, struggling
to speak, she looked up.

Frank never forgot the father and
daughter as they looked then. . . Sure,
such a sight might have drawn

Iron tears down Pluto's cheek ' —
the girl's transfigured face, With its upward
look of glad tidings, as if, indeed, it
bore a heavenly message ; Mr. Eyre's, stern,
rugged, With down-bent gaze, that softened
suddenly to profoundest tenderness as with
his left hand he pushed her bright hair*

back, but strove to draw this right from her
breast.

It is stained with blood — your rather's
blood,' he said.

But she cried out, as with the voice of
an angel :

You are innocent. Oh, father ! you are
innocent !'

'- Would to God that I were !' he said,
with the first sign of human feeling about
the deed that he had yet shown.

It is true,' said Hester, in a low, distinct
voice ; ^ in heart, soul and intention, you
are guiltless — in act alone you are guilty,
for the murder was committed in your

Exclamations of incredulity broke from
nearly all present, Colonel Busby's being
strongly flavoured with contempt ; but Mr.
Eyre stood rigid, his eyes fixed on Hester

as if he would search her very soul — and in
it he found the truth.

The mists rolled away. Aided by some
curious knowledge from within, her words
made all clear to him, and in one flash of
light, one moment of time, was thrown
open to him that chamber of his brain
which for eighteen years had been closed
against him. The discovery that he had
made in the night, and which had determined
him to give himself up to justice,
had been but a partial one, and his supposition
that he had committed the deed ina
moment of madness, and forgotten it, had
gone widely far of the truth.

Not guilty ! not guilty in unll of taking
that sweet life . a look of joy overspread
his features.

'Oh, wife I . . . wife I . . .'he murmured
inaudibly, and looking straight before him,

as if he saw only a lovesome shape that
smiled on, and beckoned him to come to
her. . . . He passed his hand across his
broads, and was his usual self, as he said,
Yet I am guilt', for the spirit of murder
dwelt in me; and even if my hand unconsciously
worked the crime, it did but
obey the impulse that, in waking moments,
had filled my mind — the impulse ' (to Hester
Clarke) ' to murder you. J was the man
seen by the tramp in Synge Lane with a
weapon in m}' hand, which I had taken
there with a deliberate intention. So that,
in heart and hand alike, I am o'uiltv, and
will suffer.' He turned once more to his
daughter, and said, ' So you do not shrink
from \TiQ—she did not, though T killed her.
And now I must leave you.'

It's a clear case of committal,' said
Colonel Busby', With uneasy dignity ; ' and

as to this ridiculous story about the sleepwalking,
there will be time enough to
discuss that when the trial comes on.'

There is time now,' said Madcap, in a
voice that commanded attention ; and in
brief, vigorous words, she detailed the
events of the previous day and night, the
interview in the wood with Lord Lovel,
the subsequent one with Hester in Synge
Lane, that still, and in spite of circumstantial
evidence, left Mr. Eyre convinced
how both witnesses falsely affirmed his
guilt.

Admiration succeeded wonder as she
related how, partly from an accidental
expression used by Hester, and partly from
her own observation of her brother's acts
when in a state of somnambulism, the idea
had come to her that Mr. Eyre had committed
the deed in his sleep, and being

VOL. III. 49

ignorant of his act, thought he spoke truth
when he denied it. Following this idea
came one to personate her mother, hoping
that her unexpected presence in his room
might awaken in him some memory of the
fatal night; and by blessed good fortune
the stratagem proved successful, for towards
morning, talking in Ids sleep he came up
the private stair, and seeing her sitting
there, made as though he snatched a weapon,
and saying ' Die ! die !* stabbed violently at
the air, then turned and went downstairs.

Madcap felt a thrill run through her
father as she spoke — she knew his thought,
how, if a real instead of an imaginary
weapon had been in his hand, he might
have slain lier as he slew her mother.

Her lip trembled — her voice refused to
continue the narration . a sudden sense
of cruelty, of disrespect to him in this open

dissection of his acts, his motives, this
baring of their inmost ho me-life, smote hers
and she turned from the eager faces around
to hide her head on his breast.

Then Hester's voice took up the tale,
and when she had ended by describing
what had that morning l)een witnessed by
herself alone, there was not a soul present,
save Colonel Busby, who did not reckon
Mr. Eyre in heart innocent.

Yet at your own trial, woman said
Colonel Busby, beginning to strut, ' you
knew him to be guilty ?'

I did.'

And you think a judge and jury will
accept a story that has probably its origin
in the fevered imagination of two weak
women ? And who is to know, pray, that
the — the murderer ' — he pointed to Mr,
Eyre — ' is not in collusion with you both?'

49—2

'Poor busybody!' said Mr. Eyre carelessly,
' too futile to be venomous ;' and
then he took his daughter's face between
his hands, looked at her very earnestly
then kissed her once, and went out.

They heard his receding footsteps dwindle
gradually into silence — a silence broken by
the sharp clang of the cell-door as it shut
upon the man who was at last alone with
his heart and God.

(9, see for he gangs, an see for he stands
The searle heir o' Line I
0, see for he stands on the could causeivaij,
And nae ane bids him come in /'

TIER silence followed Mr. Eyre's
departure ; even Colonel Busby's
uneasy authority could not be
exercised upon a man who had himself
committed his body to imprisonment, and
the others could not discuss the lather in
presence of his (laughter. ]put ^ladcaj)
quickly relieved them of that awkwardness,
by retiring with Hester, having in a few
brief words asked for, and obtained, permission

to remain in the prison, and
within call of her father, should he send
for her.

She had not once looked at Lord Lovel
since she entered, yet knew he was there ;
and her cheek went paler jet, as a step on
the flagged passage followed hers, and on
entering the room to which the Governor
himself showed her, she looked round only
to see Frank in the act of closing the door
upon herself and him.

She neither glanced up nor drew breath
as he approached ; all the spirit, the vigour
that had animated her since she had risen
elastic from the awful blow of yesterday.
noah deserted her, and pale and drooping
as a beaten-down lily she stood, as Frank
came nearer and stood beside her.

Can you forgive me ?' he said, so deeply
moved that he could scarcely speak ; ' for it

is all my fault, my doing. If I had only
possessed enough strength of will to keep
away from Lovel — or even if I had not
returned a second time and gone to the
wood, he might have lived and died ignorant
of the truth.'

She half looked up then, and saw that he
carried his right arm in a sling ; but she
scarcely noticed it, her mind was so engulfed
in thoughts of the wrongs he had so
patiently endured, not only at her father's
hands, but her own.

Could she forgive him — this idol of her
childhood ; this more than hero of her
youth ; this man who had laid his inheritance
dowii, for a lesser than he to take, and
gone forth a homeless wanderer, that he
might save his friend — the friend who met
him with insult, ay, and bloAvs, and whose
daughter was so much his own child that

she had not scrupled to fling many a bitter
gibe and taunt at him ?

In one lightning moment she say all
the beauty, the unselfishness of this life
that had elected

To suffer and be strong,'

at the cost of happiness. Memory upon
memory flashed its light upon him, in the
midst of which he stood out apart and
alone, something better, brighter, nobler
than man or angel had ever shone in her
eyes or dreams yet, and she saw him as he
was.

She saw him acting the part of son, of
his own free will giving up his days, submitting
to the restraints of hourly avoidance
of Mr. Eyre, to soothe the dying
pillow of a poor bedridden woman who
first loved and clans: to him for this likeness
to her dead son, then loved him for

himself, but by her very affection imposed
on him an almost intolerable existence . . .
and this was the man who had asked the
girl only to trust him ; and had she indeed
given so poor a thing as love without faith,
to such an one as might well have been
Aslauga's pure and faithful knight '? . . .

She covered her face with both hands ;
and he, thinking that only an unwilling
sense of benefits conferred checked the
anger she longed to express (for had she
not chosen between them, and chosen her
father ?), cried out :

Blame me, Madcap — curse me even, if
sou will ; for whatever I may have done for
duty, I have more than undone for love.'

Oh, sweet fault!' she thought, as lower
she bent her head, and said very low :

You are marry that you came back ?'

II er voice startled him with its gentleness

. . . once more he lived again that
moment of perfect happiness in the wood . . .
that moment which God Himself could not
take away from him, for it had been his own.

Xo, I am not sorry,' he said, and at
the passion in his voice Madcap trembled,
Come what may — cling to your father,
and hate me as you will — you have loved
me, Madcap, and you have kissed me.'

He could not see the red that mounted
to her very brow — he thought her attitude
one of aversion to him ; and this shrinking
in one who had but lately shown such
splendid courage astonished him, and
brought her nearer to that elder Madcap,
who had lacked the strength of will
and power of intellect possessed by her
daughter.

I am not sorry,' he repeated more
calmly; 'it is you who are sorry — you

who will never cease to reproach me for
robbing you of your father.'

How have you done that ?' she said,
startled ; ' they cannot punish him for
what he is really guiltless of ; and tomorrow
— to-day, even — he will come home
with me to the Eed Hall.'

But Frank stood silent ; he knew Mr.
Eyre even better than his daughter did,
and he foresaw but one ending to the last
act of the tragedy that had already destroyed
four lives.

But even the thought of her father could
not 23ut by her answer to his question,
^ Could she forgive him ?' . . . perhaps at
last her silence answered him, as slowly,
and with lips that quivered like those of
a child who comes to beg forgiveness, she
approached him, and, taking his hand,
pressed those trembling lips upon it.

then, white and wan, looked up in his
face.

Yet never in her most blooming hour
had she looked to Frank as noah, with those
eyes of love, so lovely, so sweet, so true,
showing like glimpses of heaven to the man
who had summoned such a glance from her
heart thither.

For all that he had suffered, all that he
had done, he was repaid now. All was
washed out, all was forgotten, as they stood
gazing at each other ; then,

'Madcap!' he said, in a whisper that was
yet a sob of joy ; but something in her look
kept him back, and he only lifted her hands
to his breast, and kissed them there.

You have forgiven me,' she said ; ' and
now we will only think of father — and
Doune. He is quieter now, but some one
should be with him. Will you go to him,

and tell him that I shall stay here all day,
and perhaps all night, within call of
lather ?'

I will go,' he said, 'and I will come back
to you.'

At the door he paused ; her eyes were
following him, her lips moved as though
they uttered words of tenderness that
welled up from the heart ; he stretched his
arms to her, would have returned, but she
waved him back ; then, as the door closed
on him, took shame to herself that in this
hour, when alone her father drank his bitter
cup, she could find one drop of sweetness
in her own.

A being of higher faculties requires more to mace him
happy than one of an ins prior types

EN o'clock found Doune in his
father's library, pacing it with
restless steps, and but little less
disordered than he had appeared to Madcap
after his conversation with Mr. Eyre.

In manner he was calmer, but his mind
had passed into a more dangerous state,
and was now receiving impressions that it
would be well-nigh impossible to efface.

Alone he had weighed every Avoid of
Madcap's story, and implicitly believed it ;

nor had the idea crossed his mind that Mr.
Eyre had deliberately simulated the part of
a sleep-walker, in order still longer to conceal
his crime. He accepted the literal
truth, and knew his mother to have been
less murdered than the victim of a fatal
accident.

But the irresponsibility of the act at
once appalled and unnerved him ; more
than once he looked down at his own hand
in doubt and terror, feeling an impulse to
strike it off before it, too, should have
worked some unnatural deed. A perception
of a dual existence, inherited from his
father, and in which he moved and even
acted without volition, shuddered through
his mind, and made his flesh recoil as
against itself ^

A rooted conviction seized him that his
father's fate must inevitably be his own,

that his future was inextricably entangled
in the guilt of Mr. Eyre's past ; their very
resemblance to each other in appearance,
brain, pursuits, and habits, and of which
he had formerly been so proud, now became
hateful to him, and the mere chance reflection
of himself in a mirror gave him a
physical sensation of self-loathing.

He had been too deeply struck by the
blow Mr. Eyre's confession had given him
to rally for more than a moment under the
comparative relief of Madcap's revelation.
The fact remained that his mother (that
mother who had been the idol of his early
childhood, and when lost, so passionately
mourned for and remembered, that she was
yet the central living heure in all the boy's
thoughts and life) had been murdered, and
by his father's hand.

That vivid image could never be effaced ;

and pity, love, hopeless longing to call
back the life that in its joy had made
others precious, swelled his heart to bursting,
yet could not bring one tear of relief
to eyes stern as his father's own, but
glazed, as if beyond all outer thought.
One sight alone had power to compel and
^-K his attention.

Was it to such an end that Mr. Eyre's
love had pointed, when he took that
lovely young life in his hand, and, all
ductile as it was, fashioned it to his will ?
Could he have foreseen that end, would he
not have passed it by, to wither perchance
from lack of his love, but escaping the
violence of a passion which uprooted, when
most it should have cherished it ?

All the circumstances of her death, as
seen from a child's standpoint, crowded
thickly on his mind, and brought a new

VOL. III. 50

stab, a fresh pang, with each. Even his
sister was involved in it, for the knife that
pierced the mother must barely have escaped
the unborn babe ; and, but for a miracle, the
two Madcaps must have been slain by one
hand. And should he, with that fatal inheritance
of his father's person and brain,
With even his peculiar idiosyncrasy stamped
upon him, take a young innocent soul to
himself, and ask it to share a lifelong
companionship with one who at any moment
might, in irresponsible mistake of his object,
wreak the whole force of his hatred, instead
of his love, upon her ?

Should he brings home this gentle creature
(this sunbeam that had not so much played
on his eyes, as touched his heart when they
first met), to love, make happy, and some
day stab to the heart ? or should he bring
children only to see the curse fulfilled

that he had fortuitously escaped, to see the
taint appear that Lady Sara had so deeply
rooted in the family some hundred years
ao'o, and that had taken the mark of dishonour
in Brandon Eyre ?

Never ! on this point duty was clear, and
heart and will ratified it. If across the
gulf that rolled between them he met
ISTanciebel's suddenly grown tender look,
and seemed to see the timid, eager hands
outstretched to him., he shut his eyes to
their beckoning, and thanked God that
hitherto he had tasted so little of love's
sweets, that he would be the better able now
to endure his unbroken fast of them.

Doubt as to his course had never for a
moment occupied his mind ; but he had
waited till the confusion of it subsided,
before he sat down to write that letter to
Nanciebel which should end, ere they had

50—2

well begun, any passages of love between
them.

He possessed all his father's decision in
thought and act (though fortunately he
lacked that inflexibility of will which had
more than once blinded Mr. Eyre to consequences,
and brought upon him signal
disaster), and did not hesitate when
presently he took pen in hand to write the
first love-letter of his life.

1^0 sense of compassion, of identification
with his father's situation, distracted his
thoughts from her at that moment. There
is a strength, a vitality in the selfishness of
the young, that makes no excuse as it
sweeps all before it, and in the writing of
that letter he forgot all on earth save
himself and her.

^o matter what he said . . . are not
such letters scored as in marble on many a

young girl's heart — ay, and on many a man's

also — and never quite obliterated save by

death ? There is not much art in such

productions, they are seldom read over by

the owner of the hand that sets them down,

seldom still does a tear blot their irregular

lines, and the hand that folds and addresses

them is usually steady.

*****

That letter was placed in Nanciebel's
hand late on the evening of the same
day.

Her packing over, her every arrangement
made to start for Lovel early on the following
day, she was sitting alone, with shy
thoughts that hovered around Doune, yet
refused to gaze full-front at the happiness
that she knew awaited her.

Love had grown apace with her since
that first shock of dread at the thought of

leaving him had opened her eyes . . . nay,
it had grown even since yesterday, when he
had departed for Lovel, without any formal
farewell to her, being so sure of seeing her
again so soon . . . but was he so impatient
already, that he must ivrite the words down
that had been so much sweeter in the
uttering and the hearing ? For a little
while she sat with the letter in her handless
as a child who holds some sweet morsel
that it longs to taste, yet fears to have its
delight too quickly over, than as one who
looks beyond it, and sees something so
infinitely better as to make comparatively
valueless what holds in its grasp.

Yet she kissed the seal before, at last,
she broke it, perhaps with some flitting
thought that eagerly expectant lovers were
not usually so much masters of themselves
as to remember sealing-wax ; and then,

with a long sigh of throbbing joy, the girl
kneeled down by the window in the fastening
light, and read her love-letter.

It was short — she needed not to turn the
page ; and her poor fingers stiffened over
it as she read, so that five minutes later she
found herself still staring at a blank page
dimly outlined on the darkness, though
memory painted in letters of fire the words
written upon it.

The words that she had a hundred times
checked upon his lips would never now bespoken.
' An obstacle had risen between them
that neither time nor Heaven could remove''
He hinted no more of vain love for her in
the future, than he spoke of hopeful love in
the past, nor did he imply that he had
possession of her heart ; yet soul spoke to
soul through the stern lines, pitiless as fate,
that cut their lives asunder.

She wronged him by no thought of a
frivolous pretext, for she had not made him
her chief study during the past months
without learning his character better perhaps
than he knew it himself; and no
question of the immutability of his decree
crossed her mind as, on the very threshold
of her greatest happiness, she found herself
rudely thrust back, and set outside it.

So we must leave her . so through
the long hours of the night must she
wrestle with such agony as only the very
young and the very strong have power to
endure . . . and in the whole wide world
she was homeless, and alone.

Open the gates,
And let him come in ;
He is my brother Huntley,
Hell do him nae harm''

LL that day, none might disturb
Mr. Eyre, none dare seek to
cross the threshold across which
he sat, resolute to shut out by force any who
should approach him ; but towards evening,
those who hearkened heard a slight stir
within, and it was Madcap's hand that
dared to turn the key and enter.

He was sitting on the pallet that had
been successively occupied by Janet Stork

as prisoner for the murder of his child, and
by Hester Clarke when on trial for the
murder of his wife.

There was death in the face he turned on
his daughter, and a burning fever scorched
the arm that she twined about his neck as
she kneeled beside him, and leant her head
against his shoulder.

But he unlocked it, and folded both little
hands beneath her chin, looking earnestly
at her ; then said :

So have I seen you a thousand times
asleep — the little golden head drooped
forward, and

" Thy tiny hands on thy wee breast " —

so perhaps has she ; and when we meet, my
one fault in her eyes, that I did not love her
children, will be gone. Where's Doune ?'
he added abruptly ; ' the boy took it badly
he should have been the girl, and you the

man, for you are made of sterner stuff than
he.'

He is cahiiernow,' said Madcap, in a low
voice, ' for he knows the truth'

He won't forgive me, for he loved his
mother best,' said Mr. Eyre ; ' and you ' —
he still held her from him, and looked at her
keenly — ' is there no one whom you too
love hest f

A faint colour overspread her pale face,
but her eyes did not falter as she said :

You were first with my mother, you are
first with her child. When you came to
the wood, I had just made my choice between
Frank Lovel and you ; and I had
chosen you.'

You would have done the same if you
had known then, what you know now, of his
conduct and mine V

'Yes;

Yet you deceived me, child. Wretch
as I am, I can yet feel the sting of that.'

Oh, father !' she said; then, quickly,
for there was so little to tell, told him all.
Perhaps her looks spoke more eloquently
than words, and silence best of all, when her
head sank forward and she ceased to speak.

There's no wailful deceit in this,' said Mr.
Eyre ; ' and so you love him, child ; and he
has his reward. He lost one Madcap, only
to find another ; and I lose you, only to find
her''

To find her V said the girl, trembling.
Oh no ! You would not leave me here
alone.'

Your mother and I have been long apart,
child,' he said ; ' and I'm in haste to join
her. If the law is as swift as it is usually
slow, I shall not be impatient long.'

Father !' cried the girl, shrinking back

in terror, ' you think they will try you —
they will condemn you to death ^'

To be sure he said. ' But no matter ;
your courage has saved me in my own eyes,
and my children's. For the world's opinion
I care not one jot.'

Madcap neither moved nor spoke ; every
sense and faculty for the moment failed her,
save that of seeing her father's body sharply
outlined against a clear morning sky . . .
and was he by such violent disruption of
life as this to meet her mother ?

Only they must be quick about it,' he
went on abruptly ; * for though you did not
know it, I have been ill. Since I met
Frank in town, there has been a fever in
my blood, and my strength must have
burnt out soon. Who's there ?' he cried,
as the key turned in the lock and the door
opened.

It was Doune who entered, and God
knows what memories of his father's care
and tenderness, what thoughts of despair
at the whole piteous tragedy, crowded on
his mind as he drew near, and looked down
upon the man who sat erect, neither clinging
to nor supporting the daughter, whose
arms were around him.

Father,' said the young man, ' forgive
me ! I was mad when I saw you last, and
your only brave, dutiful child is there''

Mr. Eyre looked up, and realized that
here was another soul with which to reckon,
and one that he had practically left out of
his calculations (for Madcap's mother and
Madcap had absorbed all his thoughts) — a
soul as stubborn and hard, if not as guilty,
as his own.

Over Madcap's bowed head their glances
met. There was death in the one, and

immovable despair in the other ; but as
surely as the son knew that his father
would shortly escape the consequences of his
sin, so did the father that his son's life was
not merely scorched, but blighted, by his sin.

So you cannot endure what a woman
can,' said Mr. Eyre ; ' she ' (he touched Madcap's
hair) ' is stronger.'

She has no weaker life entwined with
hers,' said Doune, a bitter ring in his
hitherto lifeless voice ; ' so that the hand
that crushes one crushes both.'

You mean Nancy V said Mr. Eyre ;
well, she loves you, and you love her.
If my crime keeps her from you, she is
well lost.'

Father,' said the young man, ' would
you have married my mother, had you
known that yours was to be the hand to
end her life V

Ay, that would I !'

And I would rather kill myself in cold
blood !' exclaimed Donne, his eye kindling,
and indignation breaking up the despairing
calm of his features.

Would that help her ?' said Mr. Eyre ;
or, putting such a desperate remedy aside,
think you a life lived apart from you, a
slow death in which she looks and longs
always for sign or sound of you — a death, in
short, of starvation — is preferable to the one
that you could give her ? I have watched
her,' he added abruptly : ' she is one of
those who can love, and they are few. I

never knew any others save ' he

looked at Madcap, who had risen, and was
standing by her brother's side.

It is all over now, sir,' said Doune ; ' I
wrote to her this morning.'

For a brief moment father and son

seemed to change places. It was the former
who looked beaten down, conquered of fate ;
Doune who stood erect and defied it. But
even as the shield of a young girl's arms
went round him, Mr. Eyre said, ' Leave us
now, child ;' and in a few moments the two
men were alone together.

What passed between them was never
known ; but Doune at length came forth,
pale indeed, but with such a look in his
haggard eyes as told of hope springing once
more in the heart that he had believed to
be crushed beyond the power of either God
or man to make whole again.

VOL. III. 51

Perchance and so tJiou purify thy soul,
And so thou lean on our fair father, Christ,
Hereafter in that ivorld inhere all are 2nire,
We two may meet before High God, and thou
Wilt spring to me, and claim me thine. ^

T was not Mr. Eyre's lot to be
brought before any earthly tribunal
more terrible than his
own heart and his children's eyes, for ina
very few days he had answered to a
higher one, at which perhaps his only possible
accuser, the one who had loved him
best, would not appear.

He had got his death-blow in the moment

that he discovered his guilt, and not
even his daughter's devoted love could save
him ; the springs of life seeming to fail him
suddenly, as though, with the death of his
self-respect and honour, he too must cease
to exist.

There had been no pretence even of his
trial, and one day he was carried back to
the Red Hall, where he lay till he died,
with his children and Frank constantly
beside him.

In those few short days the heart of the
proud man at last found its Maker, and
one of the truest signs of his repentance
was when he sent for Hester, and asked lier
to forgive him.

As her burning tears fell on the hand
she kissed, knowing how she had wronged
and misunderstood him, her awful repentance
for her sin outweighed his, and in the

51—2

last look, the last words, for the first time
these two erring souls understood one another.


His brain was perfectly clear, and he set
his estate in order, and destroyed old letters,
but gave into his daughter's hand a little
packet that he des-ed her to bury with
him. They were his sweetheart's love-letters
— the only sweetheart of his life ;
and then he seemed to give himself no more
concern about business, but went one afternoon
to the bed whence he did not rise
again.

That night he spoke of his little son
Dody, who had died Within a few days of
his mother, and slept sound and sweet these
seventeen years and more in her arms.

I shall see him soon,' lie said. ' I
wonder if he will rei ember that I was
unkind to him. Perhaps she has taught

him to forgive me ; and you always loved
him, Frank, and lie you. I've never asked
your forgiveness, though I think .va has ;
and I've left you another Madcap, my good,
faithful child . . .'

He sank into a slumber even as he spoke,
and did not wake till morning ; then
opened his eyes suddenly to see the three
who stood beside him.

Licjlit^ he said ; ' what is that verse of
yours, child, I have so often heard you
sing ? So many things seem to have sunk
into my soul lately, without my knowledge
. . .'

Madcap drew in her breath hard as she
repeated the words; but as she came to

Those angel faces I have lost ereivhile,^
across Mr. Eyre's face flashed a look of
light — ay, and more light . . . perchance
enough to guide his soul to his lost slade

III. 51 — 3

cap, as, stretching out his arms to his
children, he biassed away to that last
tribunal where, by the grace of God,
he may have found forgiveness for his
sins.

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

G., C dr Co.

/^
