OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

University of Illinois Library

L161— H41

MRS. M. MOORE.

IN There VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

London:

RICHARD BENTLEY And SOX,

^Sublisfjcrs in ©rtiinarg to l&cr IHajcstg tfjc ©urrn.

1885.

(.432 rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

=4

in 2009 within funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/autumnmanoeuvres01moor

CHAPTER I.

OLD Friends.

Colonel Bathurst was strolling meditatively
in Piccadilly on a Sunday afternoon
early in September. He had chosen the
sunny side, and was just realizing that it
was the conventional period for "nobody"
to be in town, and that here he was.
This was his fifth day in London, and, with
the exception of a few habitues of his club,
who always remained rooted to the spot, he
had seen no one whom he knew.

His reflections took a rather melancholy
turn, when he remembered there had been

VOL. I. 1

clays when he could have put his hand upon
the shoulder of many a good fellow rife with
the energy of youth for the pleasures of the
day. Yes ; he had it all before him —

The smiles, the tears of boyhood's years,
The friends so linked together."

He felt

Like one who treads alone
Some banquet-hall deserted ."

But although there was sadness in the reflection
of the " light of other days," it
was not of that overpowering nature which
could destroy the pleasure of this glorious
afternoon.

Colonel Bathurst was fully aware that he
had seen the sun rise on his fortieth birthday
— and on several following days, if that
were all.

And it isn't every man who can boast
of having seen the sun rise, except by
accident, at my age," thought he.

While he plumed himself with this idea.

his carriage becoming naturally more erect,
as it always does with, self-satisfaction, his
absent eye alighted on a passing face, and
woke in an instant to recognition.

O'Buncous ! "

Bathurst ! "

The exclamations were simultaneous. The
two men grasped hands, and immediately
made a rapid, half-furtive, general survey
of each other, and both looked as if neither
had noticed the act. Yet Major O'Buncous
admitted the indiscretion in his first speech.

Faith ! we're both of us older by many
years — er — er. You keep your figure,
though, I must say ! Well, I'm devilish
glad we've met ! Are you booked for anywhere
to-night ? I won't be put ofi" by
anything less than — an assignation. I've
nothing of that sort on myself, having —
er — only arrived from ]\Ialta the day before
yesterday."

What ! Why, you don't mean to say
you're not married yet ! "

"By me soul, it's hard to believe ! But
Fate is preserving me for something special,
I am cocksure, or she wouldn't have led me
such a dance among the women only to end
in smoke. I beg your pardon, Beilty," he
said, breaking off hurriedly, and addressing
a young man with whom he had been walking,
and who had dropped a step in the
rear. " This, Eeilly, is one of me oldest
friends, the most highly esteemed man I
ever met — perhaps I ever met — a pattern
of propriety as a husband, and the father
of a numerous family. How are the kids
—eh, Bathurst?"

Doctor Eeilly, a quiet, self-possessed,
unimposing young man, came forward and
spoke in a delightfully easy manner that
transformed him at once into the most
agreeable of men. A good-humoured smile
was perceptible as he said, with a bow —

I am honoured by the introduction to
the ninety-ninth ' oldest friend ' of the
major."

"I see that you also must be an oL.l
fiend," said the colonel, with an answering
smile — " shall we say the ninety-eighth ? "

*'^ By me patron saint, I won t be chained
before my face ! Is Mrs. Bathurst in town ?
Or, how old's the youngest — days or
weeks ? You look like a man off duty''

'' I haven't had time to get married," said
the colonel, drily. '* I believe Fate is also
preserving me for a gracious end. But
don't be alarmed, O'Buncous ; our prospects
shan't be allowed to clash. Age before
honesty, I say."

That's a devilish mean way of letting
Reilly know your paltry advantage of a few
years ! Conscientiously now, Reilly," said
the major, making a strenuous effort to
reduce the size of an incipient rotundity of
figure, ^' regarding us both with an unprejudiced
eye, and as a medical man (he's the
most conscientious fellow you ever knew),
which would you take for the younger ? "

"At a casual glance, most certainly yourself,"

said Reilly, with all the gravity of one
forming an important decision.

''Hi I I told you he was conscientious."

The colonel acquiesced with much
sobriety. 'but on closer observation?" he
murmured, tentatively.

I should decide the other way," said
Eeilly, quickly.

"You have not overrated the amount of
conscience possessed by your friend," said
the colonel, with a genial laugh. " But,
candidly, O'Buncous, you do amaze me.
I can't say you look quite as young as you
did twelve years ago."

Oh, come now, that's stiff ! It can't be
more than six — or seven — unless — time,
like women, deceives us all. Perhaps
you're going by the age of your eldest —
girl or boy ? "

Neither," said the colonel, quietly.

Good heavens ! I never heard of such
a thing. Perhaps Eeilly, being in the
medical profession — " 'pon my soul, Bathurst,

I forgot I But I've got you fixed in
my mind somehow as enjoying your lovely
place in Surrey, surrounded by what the
newspaper fellows call ' a numerous progeny
Now, will you dine with me, or
shall I dine with you — I leave the matter
in your own hands ? — including Eeilly,
who's in my charge."

It isn't far ofi" the festive hour. Suppose
you drop in at my club ; it's near. Doctor
Eeilly, setting aside our friend's flippant
remark, may I have the pleasure of your
company ? "

These formalities over, they adjourned at
once to the Esthetic.

'* Ah, I see it's the same as ever ! Are
you a member of this ? Always on the
search for novelty. Strike new ideas by
the score, and see 'em blow out like —
halfpenny matches, or "

Woman's smiles," suggested the colonel,
with a melancholy air.

O'Buncous sighed, and passed his hand

tenderly over that ever-present, unlucky
protuberance at his waist.

"Ah well, I still belong to the Wild
Goose ; it does well enough for me. A good
substantial — meal "

"Ah, you won't get that at the aesthetic ! "
said Bathurst, humorously, cutting short
the gusto of his friend's words. " But we'll
manage to fill you up, I dare say."

I can manage it with an ample quantity
of — fluid," said the major, with some seriousness.


They had scarcely entered the aesthetic
before the colonel was greeted by two young
men, with whom he was evidently upon the
most familiar footing.

This is something more than luck, Vin,"
said he. " Why, I thought you were en
route for Madras."

No. Orders reversed ; or rather, I
should say, impending. I wish they would
send us to the Cape."

What do you say, Neville ? "

Well, I don't care where, since there's
no chance of fighting*. I'm for action."

Vivian Seymour smiled ; this fair aristocratic
face was lighted with an expression that
gave a full reply to the warmly spoken words
of his over ardent cousin, Neville Hardy.

You're not so anxious, Yin ? " said the
colonel, smiling.

I never was in love with a soldier's life.'

'' It's the best life in the world, me boy ! "
exclaimed the major, warmly. '' There's no
man who isn't a soldier that knows the full
excitement of life — or love either. Our
young friend here has, I see, just the soldiers
eye — just the enthusiastic restless organ that
goes to say, ' Life or death, love or despair,
I'm in for it. Devil knows which, but I'd
rather stand for the risk than leave it.' "

Major O'Buncous was always a born
soldier, and he can't comprehend your coldness.
What are you two young fellows doing
with yourselves ? Can you join us at
dinner ? "

Nothing could have suited the young
fellows better than this proposal. They
liked their uncle, and were glad of the
opportunity thus afforded.

They where a very jovial party. Needle
and Vivian soon began to derive sport from
the major. Colonel Bathurst, with what
the boys knew was a mere attempt at
severity, remanded their levity by an occasional
frown.

Tell us another story, do, major ! '' said
Neville, earnestly. " But did you ever seethe
widow again ? "

Never, from that moment ! But, me
boy, as the poet says — well, I can't at this
moment remember what he says ; but the
force of female beauty is so unutterably
indescribable that it makes words appear
worse than useless ! Description must ever
wholly fail to bring home to the mind's eye
those countless charms we dwell upon till —
till "

They fail to charm," interpolated Vivian,

quietly, with just the effect of a dash of
cold water on the major's fervent heat. He
hissed under it like a hot coal.

You've none of the natural heat of
youth, I perceive," said the major, with a
boisterous laugh.

I don't think Yin was wrong in assuming
that charms do fail, O'Buncous," said
Colonel Bathurst. '■' You, having quite recovered
from the effects of no many scores of
beauties, must admit they are not eternal."

^'By me soul, they are!" in his heat
the major very nearly said '"' soul." '' If I
happened to meet one of them now, it
would be all the same think; over ao'ain.
Me heart" (here he placed his hand effusively
upon that part of his waistcoat which
he supposed approached nearest that organ)

•'* me heart would o-low ao-ain "

"About two inches ho-her to the rio;ht,"
interrupted Reilly, sith much gravity.
You have erroneous ideas of anatomy."
What the devil odds the exact spot ? '

said O'Buucous, spreading his white, fat
hand, with its valuable and imposing rings
that seemed almost too massive to be comfortable,
over the still favourite region of the
waistcoat.

It makes a difference where a bullet's
concerned," said Bathurst, drily.

Me heart would insensibly revive under
the soft influence "

"What is left of it ! Tatters and threads,
I should say by this time, O'Buncous."

Not at all ! Hang it, why, increase of
appetite with me grows with what it feeds
on ! Eeilly will tell you that if you use a
muscle, you develop it ; if you don't, it
shrivels."

"Darwin goes farther than Eeilly," said
the colonel, suggestively.

Oh, you interrupt the major unmercifully,"
said Vivian, in his slow, calm way,
the effect of which was to make that gentleman's
eyebrows take an inquiring curve ashe
turned his full, dark, and rather protruding

eyes upon this languid bo' with
whom he had no sympathy. "' As a man of
great and varied experience' continued
Vivian, seriously, " I was going to ask you
how long we might expect the influence of
a woman's beauty to last under favourable
auspices."

Favourable auspices are the worst
things that could happen. Tis when we
fear — 'tis when we have next to no chance —
'tis when we despair, the power is most felt."

In plain English, in these affairs of the
heart, fair weather is not fair weather."

There's not enough excitement. We —
get tired, you know, of all sweets."

"Talking of sweets, I hope you've
managed to fill yourself up. "Won't you try
one of our salads ? They're excellent."

I never could crunch up raw vegetables ;
I should be like the cow, never get them
out of my mouth, if I did."

'^ But these are cooked."

Well. I couldn't live on watery greens.

nor even on. love itself, in any weather. But
you can order a steak ; that'll do for me."

I thought you were not satisfied," said
the colonel ; " but well see what we can do.
Now, when I came home from India, a trifle
used up from the climate, I suffered from a
chronic loss of appetite. I could eat literally
nothing but artistic food ; indeed, I had a
distaste for everything in life."

Ah, heart ! " interpolated O'Buncous,
sympathetically.

No, liver," replied Bathurst, prosaically.
Lighted itself, however, and found its
action with the fresh air of the Surrey hills,
lout left me still with the taste for delicate
dishes. In fact, I had acquired a habit that
was difficult to break. When I went down
to the old place, meaning to set up my tent
there, and so on, I found I must have
starved upon the good old English fare,
always so plentifully spread before me. I
was actually obliged to return to town in
order to dine here. However, I made

arrangements sith a first-class cook, and
made fundamental alterations in the domestic
arrangements at Netlierby. The boys here
will tell you it's quite possible to live there
now under any conditions. Perhaps you'd
like to try ? Happy thought ! AVhat are
you all going to do just now ? what's to be
your autumn manoeuvre ? "

*' Faith! 1 don't know."

"Nor I."

Nor I," echoed Eeilly.

'' Ha, ha ! a batch of idle bachelors awaiting
her Majesty's pleasure," laughed the
colonel.

O'Buncous sighed. "'I haven't the luck
of your nephews ; we stand very little
chance of foreign service. Honestly, 1 shall
be delighted to see that fine old place of
yours once more."

Yes ; 1 remember you met my sister
Clare — that's a memory. Her eldest son
this " — touching Vivian affectionately on
the shoulder.

Indeed, indeed ? " exclaimed O'Buncous,
uneasily. " Fine woman ! splendid woman
when I met her ! Bless me, her son ! She
must have married amazingly young."

She must have been four or five and
twenty at the time," said the colonel, with
some amusement. '^ Well, never mind,
you'll come, and — you young fellows, now,
couldn't you quite as well await orders there
as here ? It's been rather dull at the old
place lately. Say you will, and then, perhaps,
we shan't have so much difficulty in
getting Doctor Reilly here to join us, unless
he is booked for a better occupation.
Come, now, I must have your decision sharp,
boys, or you'll very impolitely keep the
doctor waiting with his reply." O

Nothing could possibly suit us better,"
said Vivian. *' I'm safe in answering for
Neville. He won t find the weeks dreary
now, if he should have to wait through a few
of them."

With a full appreciation of the colonel's

iwN

cordiality, and a little pressure from all sides,
Reilly admitted that lie found the idea most
gratifying ; and so it was readily settled,
that they all should go to Netherbyby in the
course of a few days.

Strolling away from the club in the cool
night air, the major, puffing his cigar with
extreme self-complacency, said, " So that's
her son ? Doesn't it make you feel somewhat
behind your time ? or have you given
up the prospect for yourself, and going to
make that cool young stripling ahead there
your heir ? He's like her ; but how impossible
it all seems ! I was very much
struck with her, I remember ; didn't like
to admit it before her boy, you know."

'' Xo, no," agreed the colonel. " But I'd
quite forgotten that part of the business.
But, O'Buncous, it's quite amazing to me,
with your very susceptible temperament,
that you've not been caught in Hymen's
noose before this. You are the very man
of all one could swear would have married."

VOL. 1. 2

Married ? Gad ! Fve been as near to it
it's been a close shave with me dozens of
times. I don't think I could recollect now
or disassociate but a few cases "

Well, O'Buncous, one will do," interrupted
his friend.

"Well, in one instance that strikes me,
the lady, a widow, was really one of the
most marvellous creatures you ever saw —
a perfect paragon of wit and beauty ; in
short, you know a man's opinion of the
woman at whose feet he may be said to
be prostrate. Well, the matter was all arranged
; but she, having scruples about
offending some members of her family, determined
on a quiet wedding — in fact, on
a sly one. Not being overburdened with
means at the time — candidly, as you may
know, I never have been — I thought of
doing the thing from prudential motives,
and, having agreed upon the church where
the ceremony should be performed, took a
room at an hotel in the neighbourhood and

quietly awaited the event. As luck would
have it, that hotel stood in not less than
three parishes, and the beastly annoyance
was that I'd told her that I had a special
licence. Now, who was to expect a hitch
of this kind ? Of course, it came out at
the very worst moment, and the humbugging
thing couldn't be settled. The widow was
perhaps you will think justly — enraged ;
but she needn't have given me such a taste
of her temper beforehand, especially in the
presence of witnesses." Here the major
paused, and waved his hand as if dismissing
the whole unpleasant coil of circumstances.
"But there, Bathurst, it was all
compensated for when I saw her ten years
afterwards. 1 vtever was more delighted."

'' Exactly. In spite of time and space the
flame burst forth with the same purity "

No. By George ! I was delighted at
my providential escape. Bathurst, she was
withered ! " he went on, solemnly. " I felt
that if she had belonged to me I should

have abandoned her at any risk, though
she was a woman of some fortune. But you
know that sort of thing had no attraction
for me, or I might have sacrificed myself
over and over again for the sake of filthy
lucre. Why, when I was in Malta the celebrated
Countess Zephyr tried all her arts
to catch me ; and though she was really, as
you know, a celebrity on account of her
beauty, she didn't, somehow, suit my fancy.
In plain truth, I like to — lead the way with
a woman ; I don't like to receive the smallest
advance on her part ; it destroys all the
refreshing modesty that is so essential in a
woman."

Vivian has been edified by your last
remarks. I can see by the expression upon
his cynical mouth that he is amused."

Major O'Buncous turned sharply round,
and faced the two young men who had
Strolled after them.

He's welcome to my experience, and it
luis been a wide one. It's astonishing the

mistakes young men make ! — bound to make ;
because, you see, of course, experience is
a elinor that must be bono-lit."

I was under the impression," said Neville,
who was quite ready to banter with the
major — " I was under the impression that
these affairs of the heart were so much a
matter of nature that our first efforts in that
direction were generally the only genuine
ones that mankind ever experience."

The most erroneous belief that was ever
generally accepted. Never believe it, me
boy ; you'll improve in it as you go on, till
you are a master of the art of love and of
the hearts of women."

'snow you are modestly showing up your
own perfection, major," said Bathurst, drily.
You want us to know the state of consummate
excellence you have yourself reached."

CHAPTER 11.

THE colonel's VIEWS.

Late one evening: of that week, Colonel
Batliurst and his four guests arrived at
Netherbyby, so it was not until after breakfast
on the following day that they found themselves
admiring the beautiful gardens and
surrounding park-like grounds that made
the special attraction of the place.

I am always more at home Jiere than I
am at home' said Vivian, smiling.

And I always feel the place more homelike
when you are here," said his uncle,
heartily. " And, Yin, remember the Glade
is yours now ; so when you want it I can
only say that ' possession can be had ' at any
moment. "

'' Thank you, uncle," said the young man,
gravely ; *' but in all probability many years
must elapse before I take up my residence
there."

Perhaps you'll disdain it when the time
comes."

I shall have to acquire a strange taste.
Who are the new tenants ? "

I don't know much about them. Singular
people rather, I believe ; but that won't
affect me. I had a fence put up some time
ago, where the grounds adjoin, when I first
thought of letting the place. It's altogether
too pretty to be uninhabited."

I was in hope of agreeable neighbours."

Then your hope is frustrated. My
steward managed the affair. He tells me it
is a kind of nunnery for ancient maids who
despise the world''

Nuns ! " exclaimed O'Buncous, coming
up ; '' d'ye keep 'em about the premises, as
you do other novelties ? I'll be candid with
you, Bathurst ; I'm a sworn friend to nuns

always relieve them of their vows if the
matter is left to me"— Turning to Neville
at his side, and being sure of an interested
listener, he went on, " Do you know, I once
had the supreme pleasure of rescuing the
loveliest young female — probably in the
world, certainly in Europe."

*now, really," said Vivian, in his soft,
languid tone, "you're not going to tell us that
the lady in this case failed to reward you ? "

But the major was too obtuse to catch
the delicacy of the satire. " I don't
suppose I should have failed," he said,
with ostentatious modesty, "if the lady
had not been preoccupied. She had a
lover, and — by Jove, the nearest squeak I
ever had in my life — he, taking me for a
rival, and I taking him for a pursuer, we
engaged before there was time to explain
the mistake. Fortunately she had courage
to interfere before I killed the mau.'^

As you were, of course, bound to do,"
interpolated Vivian, coolly.

Nothing stands in my way when my
blood's up ; I should undoubtedly have
killed him. But instead, I had the inexpressible
pleasure of seeing her wrapped in
his arms under my very eyes."

"Pleasure ? Why, I thought you were in
love with her ? " murmured Neville, in some
disappointment at the end of the tragedy.

Vivian and the colonel had moved away
in advance.

Do you know, uncle, I think that rather
a strong dose if the major would be apt to
nauseate."

Tush ! Youth is always intolerant of
bombast. Now, the major's not a bad
fellow — and I've many associations to prove
that — but he is rather too pretentious, extremely
good-natured, though, and capital
fun for those who can see it, because he never
cuts up rough, and doesn't mean one-half,
one-twentieth part of what he says."

It isn't true, then, that he ever was irresistible,
as he seems to think ? "

The colonel laughed quite enjoy ably.
He ? I don't believe there ever has been
a real event of that kind in his lifetime. In
the days when we were thrown together, I
know that women mostly laughed at him.
Do you know, Vin, it's rather a curious
thing that some people always do manage to
make a theme out of the — deficiencies of
their lives."

If that be the case," said Vivian, with a
significant glance at his uncle, "you have
not been deficient in experiences he boasts
of ; for I never heard you, nor others, mention
one."

Don't be impertinent, young man," said
the colonel, good-humouredly.

"Yes, but, uncle," Vivian continued,
hesitatingly, "has there — ever been — a
lady "

My dear boy, how vague you are. I
should think that at the present moment
there may be a few — millions scattered
about the world."

Xo ; but you couldn't misunderstand.
Now, my people all say you'll many," continued
Vivian, ^Yitll that cool, emphatic air
which says significantly, " but / don't."

Ah, indeed ? That's very likely ; most
people do marry, you see."

I suppose they're in the right, as they
are in the majority," said Vivian, suggestively.


They have perhaps as much right to be
in the wrong," was the curt reply"'

Well, according to some views, the
minority is generally right. If you regard
it in one light, the highest class of mind
must always be in the minority, though of
course it doesn't always follow that the
minority should always be composed of the
highest class of minds."

I am inclined to think that in the questions
which affect the highest subjects the
opinion of the minority usually is to be preferred.
You see, the commonplace, conventional
mode of viewing social matters is

produced entirely from mere habit and
observation of that which is common, and
therefore palpable. But to the least original
mind there are always grave doubts as to
the propriety of these manners and customs."
Yes," interrupted Vivian ; " and out of
the many who do so doubt, I verily believe
you are the only man I have ever known
who ventures to act not strictly in accordance
with accepted conventionalities. I
don't suppose, now, you have any idea of
the full amount of gossip among the ladies,
and chaff among the men, that took place
after you had made your stand — an original
one, it must be granted — against menservants.
Yet, now the wonder is over, and
every one can see how well your system
acts, you would be astonished to hear how
many have expressed a thorough conviction
that it was undoubtedly more pleasant and
more consistent with the demands of society
to be waited upon by a neat, smart handmaiden
in one's house than to have a burly

anomaly in the shape of a man at the back
of one's chair, and half a dozen of the same
nonentities ranged about the room, more
for the sake of displaying their awkwardly
stuffed proportions than for any other reasonable
purpose."

You see, Yin, there were times in which
a ponderous butler might have been a necessity
; but now our dishes are not so ponderous
as the man himself. Rely upon it,
the time will come when he will be a relic
of the past."

AYhat a thorough reformer you are ! "

*' I hope I am. It would be a long time
before we arrive at that state of perfection
where there is nothing to reform."

They strolled on, chatting, Yivian making
an occasional remark as to the increasing
beauty of the grounds.

You must have, I think, a passion for
trees. I notice you retain even their last
bare limbs."

Yes, and clothe them with ivy. I think

I have the kind of tenderness for them one
has for human things. That old fellow, now,
will look splendid when his new clothing has
quite enveloped his naked form. There's
something so full of meaning, to mj mind,
in a tree. Of whatever kind it may be, an
association is sure to arise. Could any one
help, for instance, comparing the exquisite
gracefulness, the delicate fibre, the tender
movement of that silver birch, with a slender
modest girl who scarcely knows anything of
her own beauty, but dio stands quite distinct
from other forms in the fairy grace
that belongs to her ? Look round you, Yin,
and tell me if every tree is not a type of
humanity. There you stand, young and
bold, scarcely spreading any distance yet,
but giving noble promise. Not that I
suppose I shall live to see that beech
in its prime, but I have time to see you
there."

*' Neville thinks that a man's youth must
be his prime. He can't understand that a

man never can reach the appreciation of
things in his first youth. Why, I — even I
am old enough to know what progress in
that particular means."

And, Vin, there are crude ideas to be
extinguished at all periods of life. Now, do
turn and look at O'Buncous laying down the
law, impetuously one moment, whispering
confidentially the next, then slapping his
leg and exploding with a genuine roar of
laughter, and all about nothing, one may
venture to swear. I've known that man
more than twenty years, and I don't believe
he's altered, mentally, since he was fourteen
There was a time I hung on every word he
uttered, believing, with a boy's ingenuous
mind, in all his exaggerated bounce. He
was always the hero of his own stories, I
remember, and I thought them all so good.
He's really a curious specimen of his race —
no depth of character, no depth of feeling,
and possesses still so many attributes of the
boy. And this I imagine to be the cause

of his aversion to orrowiDor acre. Regard
them still, Yin. One would think the major
was laying the scheme for at least a gunpowder
plot. Observe the emphatic action,
the earnest persuasion, the laughing devil in
his bold black eyes. Yet he is more a child
than any one I know."

*****

So you really are game for a spree ? "

AAYell," hesitatingly, " yes — unless it's
played off on my uncle."

What ! white feather ? "

Neville laughed. *' No ; but he's too good
a fellow to play pranks upon — at least, as far
as I'm concerned. It's different on your part,
major."

*' It's nothing to do with him, but he
mustn't know of it. He never would take
a practical joke. Do you know anything
about the palace they call the Nunnery ? "

'' Have you a fancy to storm the citadel ?
There's a high wall about the grounds that
defies inquisition. Only by rowing in a

certain curve of the river can you get a
glimpse of them."

1 couldn't live so near and have my
curiosity baffled, and it's been raised already.
Just tell me, now, what do you know ? "

Well, I don't know how I've heard it,
but I've been told the house was taken about
a year ago by ladies who wanted complete
seclusion from the world."

A year ago ? Then all the village must
know more than we do ! "

Neville laughed at the excited exclamation.
*' They're welcome to the knowledge.
What are we to do with these ladies ? "

'' One would like to look at them. The
very fact of their seclusion has something
stimulating in it. I've lost no time. I took
the opportunity of pumping one of the
gardeners just now, aod from what I can
hear there's quite a romance concerning the
place. They are all ladies, with the exception
of one old fellow, who does the gardening.
And though the information from this

VOL. I. 3

quarter hasn't been much, it's quite sufficient
to prove to me that an adventure would be
just the thing to bring about the most delightful
acquaintance in the world."

Of course, they're lovely women," said
Neville, slyly.

Of course they are," said the major,
with solemn warmth, " or / should not be so
interested. Is your cool card of a cousin,
now, the man for the enterprise ? "

Neville shook his head. " Not he. But
he's game, you know. What is it you intend
doing ? "

'* Well, let's determine to make a bold
venture — invent some scheme that shall land
us at their door, and find out the whole
secret before any one's aware what we're upto.
Why, I'm told they even go to church
in Derby veils, and that a visitor never
enters the doors."

They're not beauties, major, depend on
it. They are a community of pig-faced
ladies. Who ever heard of a woman designedly
veiling her beauty ? "

Except as a stratagem ! " exclaimed the
major, excitedly. "Women are the very
deuce for intrigue. You'll see now, foi my
first impressions of a case are never wrong.
You abide by my instructions — pump everybody
you come across — and meanwhile Til
perfect the scheme. What say you to
breaking your leg outside the gate ? Assistance
becomes a matter of Christian charity."

It's stale — been done no end of times
on the stage."

"But they wouldn't know that," suggested
the major.

Couldn't we think of something: more
original ? And besides, who's to break
his leg ? "

"Well, I should propose you," said the
major, reflectively ; "I think you'd act the
part best."

I should propose Reilly. He must have
seen so much of that kind of thing that he'd
know exactly how to put it on."

Too many scruples ; too old, me boy.

Bless you, Eeilly's years older that I — in the
spirit. Why, I'd do it myself, if I wasn't
quite so heavy ; I'd do it now for two straws,
though the risk's far greater in my case."

Why, you don't seriously mean "

Certainly not to do the thing in reality,"
laughed the major. '' Some slight injury
must be inflicted beforehand. But what
should a soldier care about that ? One isn't
allowed to speak to these girls of Bathurst's,
is one ? By St. Patrick, how pretty they
are — those I've seen ! How many of 'em
has he got ? "

You can't easily count," said Neville,
"because, you see, they all wear uniform."

Do they wait at dinner ? Dash it ! I
shall be afraid to ask for bread. Do they
draw the corks ? T shall make a devil of a
mess of it, I know I shall ! "

It's quite a novel style, more like the
diner a la russe as far as the table is laid.
Everything is pretty, you know— flowers
and all that ; and you never know where

your plate comes from. The girls used all
to dress in black and white last time I was
here ; they looked like a flock of magpies,
only a great deal nicer."

But there's no speaking ? "

except on business. My uncle's
deucedly particular. By-the-by, I may as
well give you a hint, major — do be careful
with your stories ; at least, you know, until
the dessert comes on."

The major's face was a study.

I shall make a mess of it," he said, so
seriously that he nearly upset Neville's
gravity. " I say, give me a hint in time,'
if you find me going the pace. Talk, you
know, is like, you know, like — like — well, I
don't quite know what ; but something you
can't control."

There are a good many things of that
sort, major, though you can't quite find a
simile."

Are there no men in the house, then ? "

None. The gardeners live at the lodge,

and alae housekeeper, who manages everything,
and is, I am given to understand, a
remarkably clever woman, has never once
found the assistance of a man necessary."

I should like to see her ! " exclaimed the
major, with emphasis.

You'd better ask my uncle to introduce
you."

Ah, he's a sly dog I But I'll find him
out ; I'll be even with him. What is she
like, now ? " •

Well, she's quite sixty."

O'Buncous put up his hands in horror.
'' I'll hear no more," he exclaimed ; " my
friend must be a fool." And at this point
they broke off.

Later in the day Neville 'made discoveries
that tended to raise his expectations, and
excite him on the major's scheme. He
gathered that the Glade was inhabited by
several ladies, two old servants, and a decrepit
gardener, so taciturn that scarcely a
word could be extracted from him, and who

rarely came into the village. This news
Neville communicated to the major.

But 'tis the maids," he exclaimed ;
"they wouldn't hold their tongues for the
devil himself."

'' They are elderly women, and they are
evidently chosen for the especial purpose of
holding their tongues."

"It's the most amazing thing I ever
heard of in my life ! Fancy being able to
live in a place like this for twelve months
without being found out ! How about the
parson ? Bathurst's is intimate with him, of
course. By-the-bye, does he go to church ? "

Who — my uncle ? Sometimes. But I
think it's merely to show up, because the
vicar's a muff, and he'll last here till the end
of time."

"We'll go to church tomorrow, Hardy.
They will be there ! "

"Yes; but I'm told they sit somewhere up
by the organ loft, where it's so dark you
can't see anything."

"That organ loft will see-mes anyhow."

Major, be careful ! My uncle is strict
to the last degree. He has views "

So have I — hem — broad ones. What
are his ?

Not exactly what is called ' broad ; ' I
should say ' wide.' "

"I'll be shot if I can see the difference
! " exclaimed O'Buncous, as they parted
to dress for dinner.

CHAPTER III.

TABLE TALK.

Colonel Bathurst's clinging-room was quite
unlike an ordinary English dining-room ;
it gave the impression of cheerful, spacious
airiness which is seldom to be found. It
was besides light in its adornments, and,
with the graceful display of flowers, it
appeared far more like a drawing-room
when the men entered, and the maids stood
decorously around, dressed in delightfully
refreshing cool colours that gratified the
eye, as Vivian had truly said, far more
than scarlet and calves.

The major felt bashful ; he trod as if on
air, and nearly stumbled in his efforts to
appear so light. He hoped fervently he

would be well supplied with the substance
necessary, that he might not have to address
either of those dainty damsels who were now
flitting about so noiselessly and with such
delicate expedition. As if by magic, he
found himself supplied by quick slim hands
that never seemed to be in the way one
moment. He really had the audacity to
look straight at his attendant at last, but
her eyes were not directed towards him,
and she seemed not to be aware of his notice.

He fell into no difficulties, however, for
the talk was well sustained, and his unusual
quietness passed without comment.
Once, indeed, he trod on dangerous ground ;
for while Eeilly was explaining some occurrence
at their late station, Malta, the major
broke out suddenly with —

Ah, that was when I cut him out with
the charming countess ! The most comical

affair you ever heard "

Here he was interrupted by a significant
cough from Neville, who sat opposite ; after

which he quite subsided, and made no more
than a feeble response occasionally. But
he was himself once more directly the
door closed upon the bevy of nymphs that
had discomposed him.

What the devil do you mean, Bathurst,
by putting a man in such an awkward
position ? IVe been in purgatory for the
last half-hour."

•'^I'm appropriately sorry, major; but
we'll get on better tomorrow. You shall
order your dinner for yourself. Mrs. Grove
can send you whatever you want."

Hang it ! I don't mean the dinner. I've
never been placed so before. At a dinner,
you know, with, no ladies, a man feels free,
and I don't mind admitting that I should
have got on first rate if I'd been able to
talk to them. Don't you ever speak to
them yourself ? AMiat's their names ? and
what do you dress 'em all alike for ? But,
by the Lord, Bathurst, you show your taste ;
they're fine figures, the whole lot of 'em."

The young men were laughing outright ;
the colonel suppressed a smile.

'' I never saw my friend O'Buncous
abashed before," said Eeilly.

Why couldn't you have imagined there
were ladies present, and regulated your
talk accordingly ? " asked Neville.

No," retorted the major, stoutly ; "of
course I couldn't. When there are ladies
present, I always talk to them. I never
waste my words on a man. Look here,
Bathurst, get a few ladies to dinner with
us for the future, just to put me at my
ease. Ask Mrs. Whatever-you-caller to
take the head of the table, and have a few
of the girls in, or I shall take my meals in
my own room."

Here again they laughed.

*' Uncle, are there any ladies in your
neighbourhood just now ? "

Lady Crump and her companion. I
don't suppose you would care for them.
Mrs. Darlington and her daughter are at

Spa. I really think the vicar's wife is the
only available lady just at present."

'you haven't any acquaintance with
those at the Glade, then ? " said Neville,
experimentally.

Xo. I should imagine they are people
of a different sphere. Of course, I merely
judge from their eccentric seclusion. Lady
Crump, whose curiosity was aroused, couldn't
gain admittance."

Has nobody seen them ? " asked Vivian.

'' I suppose somebody has." The colonel
smiled as though he saw a joke. '' I'm
afraid you won't any of you gratify your
curiosity. If I had a wife or sister here
now, I would put her on her mettle, and
we would soon find out what stuff they're
made of."

Hasn't your factotum, Mrs. AVhat's-
her-name, told you anything in detail, as
women do ? " asked O'Buncous.

'' I don't gossip with Mrs. Grove about
ray neighbours ; but I'll tell you what I'll

do, I'll give you a chance of questioning
the old lady yourself, as she's the only
female society I can offer you. She's
generally in the conservatory getting the
flowers when I go round in the morning."

'* Is she a dragon ? "

I don't find her so myself. She's a
capital manager."

Well, I'll make the attempt, for I shall
get nothing out of you, I see. You were
always a singular man. What's your real
hobby now? You always had one, I remember."


The acknowledgment of woman as a
rational creature," replied Bathurst, humorously.


But aren't you satisfied with her as
she is ? I don't see what you want of her
rational.' "

Reilly laughed. "You are of the old
school, major; the colonel is evidently
of the newest. Are you for wholesale
reform ? " he asked of the host.

"My uncle goes to a greater length
than any man I ever knew' struck in
Neville.

*let your uncle answer for himself,
young man," was the smiling reply. " Well,
Doctor Reilly, I think I go as far on the
question as any man, ancient or modern.
I've no doubt the principle we are acting
upon is altogether an unfair one. Do you
go with me ? "

So far, most certainly. But," he went
on hesitatingly, "to tell you the truth, I
think that woman herself needs reform in
many ways before we can effect any sort of
alteration in the principles that now affect
our action."

Vivian Seymour opened his calm blue
eyes with a sudden vivid interest. " There
I am with you," he said, in his slow,
even tones. His voice, though not often
heard, was always listened to when it was
heard. There was a peculiar gentleness
in both voice and speaker, mixed with a

strange effect of power. " I go fully with my
uncle up to one clause ; I stop at another.
Brain should always govern force ; and if we
want to give women power, we must 1)egin
by making them fit to wield it."

But my argument is, not that they
should be all fit for the government I would
accord them, but that they are, as they stand,
at least as well fitted to form an opinion
as so many of the opposite sex who already
hold the right."

Here," said Vivian — " here I always seethe
fact that the men have already received
the gift of ruling, and we do not see the
incompatibility quite so clearly. It is one
thing to take a step, and another to retrieve
one. It is not because I see woman beneath
what she should be that I think her incapable
of being what she pleases."

Bravo, Vin ! " murmured the colonel.

Vivian held up his hand deprecatingly.
But she is not that yet. She will have
to reform — in the first place, in her dress

before she can prove herself a rational
creature."

Reilly warmly acquiesced. '' That is an
essential particular you have noted ; and
it's uncommonly shrewd for a man of
your years. Now, I have necessarily been
bound to know where the abominable
ever-arising question of fashion injures the
health and distorts the beauty of a woman.
I am far from being uncharitable to the sex,
and I do not attribute their slavish conformity
to fashion so much to vanity as
I do to feminine modesty that abhors to be
conspicuous."

"Oh, dash it!" exploded the major,
almost angrily, " you're all wrong there !
"Women dress to be looked at ; they don't
do it for the sake of modesty. I never
heard such an idea ! Reilly, you've never
talked like this to me J'

He thought you wouldn't understand
him, major," cut in Neville.

I made a deduction upon certain grounds,
VOL. r. 4

and fancied you did not hold woman quite
at my estimation ; so I held my peace,"
said Reilly, plausibly.

'* Never let it be said, for my gallantry's
sake, that T have ever thrown a stone at
the roughest of the softer sex. As Bathurst
says, woman is the — the active principle
of life."

"Excuse me," interrupted the colonel.

And excuse me'' laughed Eeilly. " She
is the mainspring of life, think what we
will."

She is the poetry of life," said Vivian,
dulcet.

'' She's the prime motive of life," said
Neville, sturdily.

Do you mean primary?" asked his uncle.

Neville coloured. " I can't start off my
opinions as you and Vin do, but I've got
my ideas all the same."

But, you know," expostulated the major,
we must, after all, regard the woman as
an inferior animal."

Do you mean as an animal pure and
simple?" asked Eeilly, jocosely. "Is it a
matter of physical strength alone to which
you allude ? We can prove over and over
again the sound courage, endurance, and
perception of woman when she is, as is
rarely the case, brought to the test of those
dangers with which man is familiar."

Think back," said Bathurst, with a
genial smile ; '*' think on what brave and
noble women have done, in acts alone where
they may bear comparison with men. Do
you remember those ladies who brought
home the ship the other day, who had
worked days and nights with an energy and
perseverance that would have done credit
to any man, while the Lascars lay helpless
from fear, and only one sailor was left to
guide them through their way ? Bring them
to the fore, I say. There will be a little
difficulty before they find their proper level ;
and then woman will take her stand, be
estimated at her real value, and be what

LIBRARY

University OF Illinois

she was intended to be, and what she is
happily enough sometimes — man's ordained
helpmate and equal ; neither his toy nor his
victim."

You seem to have given a fair amount
of consideration to the fair sex," remarked
the doctor.

We all do in our various ways," said
Vivian, suggestively.

Certainly, the proper study of mankind
is — woman," said O'Buncous, with much
gravity. " And what Shakespeare says
can't be wrong."

'but Shakespeare never said that, major,"
said Neville ; " nor any other man, that I'm
aware."

We can't expect to know every quotation
that ever was made," said the major,
hastily. "If it wasn't Shakespeare, it must
have been Moore. At any rate, I had a
friend who was very proud of the quotation."


Vivian and Reilly exchanged glances.

The major recognizes only Moore and
Shakespeare," remarked Reilly ; " but Moore
generally comes first."

Why, there never was finer poetry
written," cried O'Buncous, enthusiastically.
Look at the depth of it, and the — the
exquisite language — such as any one can
understand. That's the sort of thing you
don't get every day ; that's the sort of thing
none of your modern poets can write."

I'm really afraid your favourite would
not even be accounted a poet had he lived
in these unenlightened, modern days," said
Vivian, quietly.

Of course he wouldn't," echoed the
major, warmly. " In these days people
want to be considered so devilish clever that
they'll only pretend to understand what
other people can't."

Again Vivian and Eeilly exchanged
glances.

o

Ancient or modern ? " asked Vivian,
sententiously.

Both."

I am an admirer of the philosophic
school," replied the colonel. "I see nothing
to admire in your mere musical writers. I
want something besides music in my poetry.
It is one of my fancies to judge men
according to their tastes in matters of art.
Come now, Doctor Reilly, give me a parallel
between Shelley and Byron. I can apply
my test admirably, being quite in the dark
as to your tastes."

O'Buncous helped himself to another
glass ; he was clearly cut out of this discussion.


I can't draw any sort of parallel," said
Reilly, with a smile, "except that both
understood the musical magic of words.
However, I won't sneak out of the test ;
I'll tell you honestly, so far as a mere
ordinary reader may be worth hearing, that
I believe Shelley, in spite of his high reputation,
to be a much-overrated man, and
1 believe Byron to be, perhaps, the most

generally misunderstood poet who has ever
existed."

It always takes a keen critic to estimate
satire correctly' said Vivian, slowly.

Doctor Eeilly, I don't understand you,"
exclaimed Neville. " Surely there's no
obscurity in Byron ? I don't profess for one
minute to read what Vivian can, but I
flatter myself that I understand Byron ;
and, what's more, I enjoy his poetry more
than any other, though I've got a sort of
impression that it's wrong to say so."

"That's just the position," said Eeilly,
with a smile.

I have formed my estimate, doctor, and
I'm very much obliged to you," said the
colonel. " My nephew here is just beginning
to use his brains. I used to tell him, Ion or
before he would believe me, that he would
learn to appreciate and criticise very differently
when he arrived within the first
boundaries of manhood."

'' Ah, that was when I had read the

Vision of Judgment ' seriously, and thought
it profane. You agree, then, with my
uncle, that we must pass through phases
of thought ? "

Certainly, if we can think at all. I
believe, in a great measure, our tendencies
are shown very easily ; so far as that, in
some cases, they foreshadow from childhood
the ultimate man. But we cannot arrive at
rational conclusions at a bound ; we must
come through certain conditions of thought
before we can reach others."

Then the notion that thinking

Is but an idle waste of thought,
For naught is everything, and everything is naught,'

is nonsense ? "

No. For a man may arrive at nothing
by various roads."

There, too, was a man who, with all Diis
gifts, was, as Colonel Bathurst expresses it,
deficient in the real weight of thought that
goes to make poetry of the highest kind."

O'Buncous was getting quite impatient.
His face was many degrees more vivid than
it was when he commenced the repast.

"Bathurst, you're driving me into bad
habits. A man must do something, you
know ; if he can't talk, he must drink.
It's all very well for Reilly, as a medical
man, but ''

Here the young men laughed.

"O'Buncous," exclaimed the colonel,
gravely, " I'm afraid your only books were
women's looks and "

'* Spare the rest of the quotation," entreated
Vivian.

How tender you are upon anything that
impugns the honour of the gentler sex ! "
said Reilly, smiling.

You know the end ? " said Vivian.

Ah, and I know it too ! " said the
major. " If he'd been worth calling a poet
who said it "

'•' It was no less than your own particular
star, Tom Moore," said Reilly, suavely.

O'Buncous reflected. " Fve got a deuced
lead memory," he said, " though, as I've
remarked before, a man can't expect to know
everything that was ever written. A word
of advice to you young men. Give me a
man of the world, against a bookworm any
day. Your bookworm only gets at the
husk of things, and misses the kernel.
You've been talking a deuce of a lot about
thinking ; and what the deuce is the good
of it, I should like to know ? It don't
lead to anything. Why, one fine action
is worth a thousand thoughts. Bless you !
I've had 'em myself in my time, and I
know all about it. When my glorious
countryman Wellington won the battle of
Waterloo — and I hope that's worth talking
about, as an historical event — why — why,
it was all action. Why, it's actually called
an action.' "

When the major arrived at this brilliant
climax, he paused, quite overcome by his
own convictions.

'•' The end of all thought should be
action," said Vivian, in his distinct mellow
tones.

And why not the beginning, I want to
know ? " was the audacious retort, of which
inconsistency O'Buncous, to do him justice,
was not sensible.

Chapter lY.

THE GLADE.

Oak Glade, on this delicious September
morning:, was looking as beautiful as the
Garden of Eden might have looked in the
days of Eve. It was the most charming
combination of fine old trees, well-kept
lawns, and as lavish a display of common
garden flowers as might anywhere be found
in England.

A girl, '' gowned in pure white," sat under
the shadow of an oak, sketching. Her long
fair hair, all unloosed, veiled her figure and
half hid the classical lines of her pure pale
face. A pair of very serious grey eyes were
raised frequently from her work to her
model — a handsome woman who was strolling

with gracefully bent head while she studied
the pages of the book she held, earnestly
absorbed.

Upon a rustic seat sat a lady of middle
age, knitting. She was, still beautiful, still
graceful in spite of time, although the lines
of care and sorrow were so indelibly written
on her thoughtful face. At her feet,
stretched in idle abandonment on the grass,
lay an exquisitely beautiful girl. She was
quite young — not a child, yet with something
of the attributes of childhood lingering
in her womanhood.

I don't feel as though I should ever
care to leave this lovely spot," said the elder
lady. " I have felt at home ever since we
came here. Ah, Kate, young people are
apt to think every change delightful. Tell
me, child, what can be happier, more peaceful
than our lives here in this secluded
haven ? I had no hope when we left Derbyshire
of finding any place that could seem
like home. Why, it is scarcely twelvemonths

since we made tHat change, and I
was in hope we might remain content for
many years to come."

"Yes, mamma. But 'contentment' is a
very unsatisfactory word. I cannot say I
am not content ; but indeed I feel sometimes,
in my very impatience of restriction,
as if I would rather be free, even at the risk
of finding discontent."

My dear," said the mother, with a sigh,
can t you believe in my word ? Have I
not told you of the hollowness of life, except
for duty's sake — and is not our duty clear ? "

But it would be interesting, if not
pleasant, to find out the vacuum for oneself,"
said Kate, a trifle impetuously.

You will not feel so after a little while,"
said her mother, soothingly. "Look at
Adelaide — her occupations, her interests, are
now so complete that she never experiences
the least weariness. And it is the same with
Mary — her studies absorb her whole time ;
and any one may see that they are perfectly

happy. No, my dear, what you want is to
attach yourself strongly to some object of
interest, out of which a powerful motive will
soon arise, and satisfy every demand of
your mind."

I wish there was some other study than
those I know of," said Kate, reflectively. '•' I
don't care for shells — much ; although I did
think if we got somewhere do\\T3 amono-
them, you know, by the sea, I might acquire
a taste. You said that Adelaide didn't care
for cooking when she began, and now withall
her reading and experience it has become
quite a science."

"That is what I say," said her mother
eagerly. '' A mere dip into a subject will
not convince you whether you like it or not.
It is necessary to acquire some knowledge
before you feel a vivid interest."

Well, that's what I was thinking about
the shells "

"All seaside towns are crowded at this
time of the year."

But the people wouldn't eat us. Surely
eve need not associate with them because we
must see them. How I wish we were more
like other girls ! "

Again Mrs. Elmore sighed ; and, as she
lifted her eyes to her daughter's face, there
were tears to be seen there.

Oh, mamma darling ! I quite forgot — I
know you can't bear us to say anything like
that ! and I know how good and kind you
are — how you give every thought for our
comfort."

The beautiful girl kissed her mother
warmly, and nestled her hand in hers as she
went on tenderly, " But I don't mean to be
.ungrateful when I say that I don't think it's
wise to talk about it, but we do all feel as
though we would rather be like other people,
and not live all our days under a ban. You
wish it yourself, don't you, mamma ? "

"God knows I do, Katie ! But in obeying
my conscience I do what is best for
you, my girls. It is true you will have to

miss some of the more exciting pleasures of
life, but, on the other hand, you will enjoy
an almost absolute immunity from the
trials that beset all people who live in the
world."

"It is true we mio-ht almost as well —
be — be — " '^ mummies ' she was o'oino; to
say, but checked herself in time, and substituted
" out of it."

'•' Give up all thoughts of Brighton. I
don't know much about the coast there,
but I do not think it is rich in shells.
And, darling, since this neighbourhood is
so very retired, and I can trust your
discretion so thoroughly, you shall have
the pony you were so anxious al)Out a
little while since. Now, no thanks," said
the mothers tender delight steahno- over
her face the while. "You are of a different
temperament from your sisters — so like me
when I was a girl — that I think you want
more active, more energetic occupation than
you can have within these walls."

VOL. I. 5

"They are high walls,"- sighed Kate.
'ewe can never even see any one pass."

Now, really, dear ! there cannot bo any
advantage in seeing a few commonplace
people stalk by one's house, mostly ill-dressed
too, you will admit."

"Yes ; but then there is something amusing
even in that."

'• It seems a pity to ridicule people for
their want of knowledge or taste," said Mrs.
Elmore, gently.

Will soli think me very foolish, mamma,
if I admit that I have sometimes thought I
should like, just for once, to be dressed like
that fashionable lady we saw at the station
when we arrived here ? "

Surely you don't think she looked either
graceful or sensible, that you should wish
to emulate her ? "

"No, no," laughed Kate, gleefully. "It
was only that I should like to see how I
should look. We dress like nuns, but then
of course, we are nuns."

^' No, my child. You have taken no
such senseless view of life. You are secluded
from necessity's sake, and not from
choice."

'' Well— well, its all the same."
Again the light faded out of the mother's
face, as the half-impatient words escaped
the girl's lips. She regarded the fair form,
and exquisite absent face with a sadness
that had plainly much of pain. And yet
most mothers would have looked at such
a girl with joy and pride ; for Kate Alas,
according to the most rigid laws of beauty,
a really magnificent specimen of womanhood.
A curved supple figure of medium
height. a head of pure classical lines, poised
with a dainty pride upon a throat and
shoulders that were really alone charm
'enough for any one woman to possess.
And then a creamy skin, and such tints
of colour, rather bright than soft, that
from their contrast form a delicious whole.
Dark brown skin carried off the pure

heaven of her forehead in a sweep there
is no describing, and eyes like the colour
of the blue in the sky, on a dark night
when the stars are out. What the mother's
thoughts were as she gazed upon this
enchanting creature it would be strange to
tell ; but when she spoke again her voice
was low and tremulous.

'' Fm not sure, Kate, that you would take
to the shells. I really think your forte
is music, and it is a never failing source
of delight. I have noticed that you are

always happy when you're singing "

Here she was interrupted by the lightest
and most musical of laughs.

Or miserable, mamma. I always fall
into the spirit ,of the song, whatever it be.
And songs, I think, are mostly sad. Yes ;
but you are right ; I do enjoy my music,
although even there is still a want — an
end, or aim in my life, if you like. You
see, Adelaide has her hope for the future ;
she is training herself for work in which

she surely has the strongest interest. Mary,
again, pursuing subjects one may almost call
scientific, finds satisfaction enough in her
pursuits and occupation also. 'Tis I alone
who am so unstable"'

"Wait a little; your choice will come.
It was only last week the vicar congratulated
me upon the beauty of your voice,
and mentioned the o-reat advantage he felt
you to be to the church music. Of course,
publicity is denied to any of you, although
in Adelaide's peculiar instance, and considering
the class in which she would work,
she might really at her age be already in
the field of her labourer"'

Here the mother's eyes fixed themselves
upon the tall, slowly-moving figure, with
head inclined (wev the book.

'' But she is really far too handsome —
yet

"Is it really rare, then, for a woman to
be so handsome as Adelaide ? " asked Kate.

The mother paused, then went on rapidly,

There can be no Larn in my telling you
that you are all exceptionally beautiful, and
in this consists my greatest difficulty. Dear
me, child, there arc families of girls by the
hundred in which no one need have such
apprehensions as those I have for you. It
is their fate to pass unnoticed, and only by
the merest accident — from long association,
or the like — would they ever marry. They
might fairly run the gauntlet of the society
in which they move ; go to places of amusement
and run no possible risk. But with
you, things are altogether different. I could
not take you anywhere, and expect you to
be overlooked ! I am not afraid of arousing
your vanity ; I only want to arouse
you to a sense of danger in the gift that
can only prove a disadvantage to you."

Well, I will never long to know more of
the world you so dread for us. You shall
not derive any fresh trouble from me."

At this moment the girl sitting under the
tree rose and approached them.

Is it a portrait, mamma ? " lie said,
smilingly.

"The very pose of the head — the very
attitude!" exclaimed Kate. 'mary, you
have the whole talent of the family ! "

'•' I couldn't manage the chin' replied the
other, with some dissatisfaction, '•' otherwise
it would be good, I think. You see, the
slightest deviation from truth, there, mars
the whole harmony of line. This is majestic,
but it wants — oh, it wants a certain atom
of tenderness that Adelaide has so strangely
mixed up with her strength. It must be in
the chin."

I should say sweetness of character
would be found more in the curves of the
lips," suggested the mother.

"Or in the tip of the nose," laughingly
added Kate.

But the demure ]Mary answered only by
covering the obnoxious chin with one of
her dainty fingers.

Isn't that proof enough ? " she asked

Dear, you shall thy my portrait," said
Kate, with glee. " You would not then be
troubled with the confusing mixture of
strength and sweetness. It would be literally
all honey ! " Still the demure sister did not
smile. " Or, why not paint yourself ? — except
that one knows it is ridiculous to paint
the lily. But, nonsense apart, you would
have the most patient sitter in the world in
yourself. Keep down your long fair hair,
and arrange it in a sweep to your taste ; be
robed — or rather half-unmoved — in the white
you are so fond of wearing, and sit opposite
to a pier-glass, to which you can occasionally
turn those angelic orbs while you work.
Upon my word, you'd anywhere pass fora
saint."

Which you certainly would not, my
dear," laughed Mrs. Elmore.

No ; I fear my tendencies are decidedly
earthy. Now, come, mamma, let us send
off to inquire about that pony, for I shall
be in destitution if he's sold."

CHAPTER y.

MELODY.

Major O'Buxcous rather surprised the
men at breakfast the following; morning', bv
announcing his intention of o;oino; to church.

'' I don't want any of the rest of you ; but,
whatever may be your games for the day,
don't count on me."

'■' The major has some manoeuvre in hand
in which he does not wish us to be partakers."


Oh, you're all as welcome as the flowers
in May ! " replied the major, jauntily. '' I
will admit that I have a special motive,
and, in admitting so much, my friend Eeilly
here will have his joke. However, I don't
mind owning to my youthful propensities ;

SO, gcutlcmen, }'ou will understand it is
the flutter of the feminine petticoat that
beguiles me."

But you don't know ji woman here,"
said the colonel, puzzled.

Exactly," replied the major, raising his
black, arched eyebrows, and showing his
black eyes to their widest limits. " Precisely
; but I intend to know one — or
perhaps a few — before long."

A sense dawned upon the colonel's mind.
Is it the recluses of the Glade ? " he inquired,
dubiously.

^'The very mark!"

<' I — I — pray you be careful, for they are
really ladies, I believe."

'' By my honour," cried O'Buncous, starting
to his feet in pretended anger, " do you
think I don't know how to treat a lady
when I see one '? Look to your own manners
before you correct mine, Bathurst. I'll
be on o'ood terms with the whole crew of
them — that is, if they are worth while."

This parenthesis of reservation was well
"worth while" from its very tone. "1*11
know all their pretty little manoeuvres, or
my name's not O'Buncoiis."

So the discussion ended without more
ado, and they all went to church. Colonel
Bathurst's square pew was well filled. This
was cpiite a matter of excitement to the
general congregation. Perhaps the more
so because the major's bold eyes eagerly
scanned every woman within view. But no
answering beauty met his eye : and, more
disappointing still, no lady whose envious
veil precluded a view of her fairness. Eeilly
exchanged a sarcastic half-aroused smile
with the colonel, as they noted these searching
looks, to which O'Buncous was totally
indifferent. The service proceeded. In a
few moments the first Psalm was commenced,
and Yi^dan Seymour was conscious
of a positive thrill of excitement, as a clear,
full, magnificent voice, as sweet and fresh
as the SOD": of a lark in the morning; sunshine,

burst upon lies car. He was intensely
susceptible to the charm of music, and
as these glorious tones rolled and echoed
through the old church, he felt himself completely
absorbed by them. The voices of
the choir, the congregation, and the sweet
singing of the children sounded only like
an accompaniment, so clearly distinct were
those full, grand notes.

He looked earnestly in the direction
whence that voice appeared to proceed, but
could only dimly perceive a few dark figures
amid the shadow of the organ loft. It was
impossible to imagine this woman, whosoever
she might be, was a jxxid performer ;
the matter of expense entirely precluded the
idea. And the possessor of that voice must
be young — that Alas certain ; she must have
had good training too — that was equally
certain ; and how was she to obtain that asa
resident of this place ? He looked round
at his companions, but none of these seemed
to give any sign of being beset by the same

infliiC'Dce. He, however, was absorbed bj
it, and was curiously surprised at the reaction
which set in when the vicar's dry
crackling words reminded him that the
sermon had commenced.

Bathurst, whose nature was cordial to a
fault, inclining always to the gentler tactics
that are almost womanish in their care for
the feelings of others, delayed leaving the
church until he knew he should be just intime
to have a word with the reverend and
well-meaning Dormer in the porch. So,
while lingering in the peaceful scene, Vivian
used his eyes quite as earnestly as did the
major. The latter, to the satisfaction of his
curiosity, was at length rewarded by seeing
three ladies descending the rude flight of
stairs on the right. Three ? there were four,
but one might be a woman of fifty years of
age, or more, with a sad yet resigned expression
upon a face that was still strikingly
handsome, although almost purposely unadorned
by the plain black bonnet surrounding'

it. An attracting' figure in itself, and
quite warranted to strike an eye like the
major's ; but these forms following were
certainly more youthful, although their steps
were so sedate, and almost solemnly constrained.
And their gauze veils, albeit they
floated in such ravishing folds, were nevertheless
quite effective in hiding even the
sparkle of an eye. The major's blood ran
cold as the thought occurred to him that
these doubtless lovely young creatures might
really be, as had been proposed, nuns in
absolute fact.

The vicar had exchanged his few words
with the colonel, and then turned and
greeted the first of the four young ladies
then crossing the porch. Vivian stood close
to them as they waited their turn to pass
out, and he had the satisfaction of hearing a
few conventional words spoken by unquestionably
the singer during the service.
Although the tones were very low, they
had the peculiar faculty of reaching, and

sinking, as it were, throiigk one's very
beings Vivian felt the cliarni in all its
oppressiveness ; lie wondered at the sensation,
and yet enjoyed it. Would she speak
aofain ? " It was indeed a lovely morning I "
But who could give such melody to that
common phrase as she could ? But there
was no other word ; there was just a tend
of a very graceful figure, and the dark
dresses had all disappeared.

Colonel Bathurst's voice seemed to wake
his nephew from a delicious dream, while
the majors hilarity sounded like an incongruous
discord. " Those were the ladies
from the Glade, Vin ; you see what chance
O'Buncous lias of making himself familiar in
that quarter''

What a superb voice ! " answered Vivian,
absently ; " yet it did not appear to strike
you."

'' I am accustomed to it — that is, I know
it belongs to one of those ladies, and that it
is quite a treat to hear her sing. I did not

tell you purposely ; I wanted you to bo
impressed, as I know you can be, by the
power of music."

The human voice is the most marvellous
instrument for producing effects upon the
human soul ! There is nothing like sound
for reaching into one's very being. With
you perhaps it is not so : with some the eye
does more work, and the beauty of form or
colour has a far greater attraction. Indeed,
I think there are various means of reaching
the heights of man's nature."

"Yet I have heard men, sensible men
too, say that we are safer with no love for
beauty than too much," said Bathurst, reflectively.


Any gift surely may be a misfortune
badly used. What powder, do you think,
masters you most ? "

"Mind. I should not be tempted by
either eye or ear."

Still you seem to seek and surround
yourself with beauty; carry your love for

it to a greater extent than any one I ever
knew, even to the choice of servants."

'' That is a justifiable gratification ; they
should be but as pictures, flowers, and adornments.
One likes to have one's books well
bound — at least some few people as well as
Mr. Ruskin ; I myself do. Yes," he added,
meditatively, "you are to understand, Vin,
that your eccentric uncle is only to be overcome
by the absolute power of mind."

Then you have never seen either of those
ladies ? "

'the remark is irrelevant, Yin; still I
will confess that I have not. My agent
conducted the business by letter, and I
remember insisting strongly on certain
arrangements beings made which I considered
necessary, knowing there were ladies only
in the case. You know what those fellows
are ! They can swallow anything themselves,
but they detest any one else getting an advantage
; and women, you know, are not so
well able to fight for their rights just yet."

VOL. I. 6

They never will be able to fight."
Perhaps not ; it won't be necessary
when the morale of society is so far improved
that justice is conceded to all, and brute
force is dead."

CHAPTER VL

DESIGN OR ACCIDENT ?

Mrs. Elmore sat in her own especial place
in the cawing-room window when Kate
came in from her first ride, with her hair
much dishevelled, her cheeks bright, her
eyes sparkling, the dark cloth habit showing
her supple figure to advantage, and all the
soft folds, pulled up on one side, making
as charming a picture as one would wish to
dwell upon. But the mother's contemplation
of all this was checked, as usual, by
some gloomy thought, and the loving face;
saddened, while the smile ended with a sigh.
wye have been in trouble, mamma. But
I didn't faint ; that's the last absurdity I

should resort to. We only got entangled in
the underwood ; my veil was twisted round
a holly branch, and his tail was entangled
in a furze-bush. There we both were fixed.
How any one would have laughed to see
us ! It's only that I'm out of practice. I
shouldn't come to such confusion ao-ain.

o

I left the shreds of my veil in the tree, for
the simple reason that it was impossible todo
anything else, and I would willingly have
left the tail of Ajax in the furze-bush, but
he objected "

Kate, Kate I "

Well, it was irrational of him, but it
was no use arguing. I fortunately had a penknife
; and fortunately, too, he was patient,
and when I found I couldn't cut away the
tuft of hair, then I cut the branch. So he
has brought back part of the furze with
him, with some disapprobation. His beauty
is not irretrievably injured "

"I shudder to think of what mio^ht have

o

happened."

Are you thinking of my beauty, dear ?
Pray, what is the use of it ? "

"Remember, Kate, you must not twist
your habit quite so tightly round you."

"What can it matter what we do, mamma?
Nobody will ever see us. And what, indeed,
is the use of being healthy, wealthy,
and wise, if we cannot set an example to
the age, and shed a lustre on the future ? "

'skate, you are talking utter nonsense."


So I am, you dear, serious old mother.
But I often consider what a loss we are to
the world. We strive to be perfect in physique,
in manners, in temper, in mind, all
for our own selfish purposes, and nobody
else a bit the better for it all."

Then the girl suddenly paused, the light
of her eyes softening into a mist as she read
the expression in her mother's face.

I won't talk nonsense if you look like
that," she said, kneeling down, and clasping
her firm hands, bearing traces of the recent

conflict, over the mother's knees. ^' I won't !
and so good as you always are to me. Don't
you think the contretemi^s was lucky ? You
need have no fear for us now ; we are both
so well-behaved."

Mrs. Elmore put her hand on her daughter's
head, and smoothed back those rebellious
locks that declined to be fettered.

If you are satisfied, dear, that is all —
all I want."

The pathos, the full meaning of these impressive
words, sank into the girl's heart
and saddened her. She put her mother's
hand to her lips.

Somebody does care, after all, for how
we look, and what we say," she whispered.
Another pause. "But this is worse than
talking nonsense," she cried, springing up
and putting her mother's hand upon her arm.
Come — come and see his tail. He is now
being cleaned. I wonder if Tom can see
well enough to manage the furze ? "

They walked down the garden together

towards the greenhouse, where a small stable
had been erected.

'' So you're quite satisfied with him, my
love?"

Oh, I shall adore him, mamma ! "

And you think he shows no inclination
to kick ? "

I believe his temper is as angelic as
your own, so you need have no fear for Ajax
or me. I don't know how many times I
shall have to thank you for acceding to the
request of your most troublesome daughter.
I am the most troublesome daughter, am
I not ? " But the mother only smiled, and
the girl ran on. " You can imagine how delightfully
refreshed I am after my first gallop.
And you must own that I was getting quite
pale and weak for want of exercise."

Here she met her mother's eye, and
laughed at the absurdity of her own words.
Her laugh was mingled with a curious,
crushing sound, as of dried leaves or the
crackling broken boughs.

Both ladies started.

*' What is it ? " was their mutual exclamation.


The sound proceeded but from a short
distance. There was a mass of shrubbery
extending at some distance from the high
wall of the garden. Mrs. Elmore walked
quickly in the direction of the sound, saying,
Some strange dog has got in and lost his
way, I suppose."

But Kate's blithe footstep and eager
hands were quicker to the discovery. It
was she who, pushing aside the rhododendrons,
was the first to gaze upon the prostrate
form of Vivian Seymour. His fall had been
but slightly broken, for here, close under the
wall, there was but thin underwood, and
this had given rise to the crisp crushing
sound that had been heard.

He was quite still. His eyes were closed,
but there was no sign of injury, no sign of
pain, no sound. Could he be killed ? The
girl's startled eyes rested with wonder on

his beautiful fair face. She, who read all
her poems in nature, read a fresh page as
she looked there. She made no exclamation,
she gazed.

Good heavens ! " cried Mrs. Elmore,
shrinking at the first glance. *' Eun, Kate,

fetch Go away, child ! I hope he isn't

killed. Dear me ! how could it have
happened ? He's not — go away, Kate, do !
he's not a tramp ; he's a gentleman. But

how could ? Dear me, Kate, how

strange you look ; are you too frightened to
move ? I don't think there's anything really
serious, but we must have assistance."

Mrs. Elmore was quite collected, but her
voice was hurried and anxious. Kate stood
still, with that fixed, strange look, not quite
of fear, upon her face, as though she never
heard her mother's words. At this instant
there was a loud peal at the garden bell —
another — and still Kate did not seem to
hear. Mrs. Elmore, unwilling to leave the
spot, fell on her knees beside the prostrate

man, and touched his hand with the unconscious
desire to do something. She spoke
rapidly all the time.

*' Some one has witnessed the accident,
and is evidently anxious for admission. Do
go, my darling, before they arrive ! "

They had arrived ; and a singular procession
they formed, as each followed the
other swiftly round the curved path that led
to the outer wall. No one observed them
but the old man who had unfastened the
ponderous door, or gate, of the Glade
grounds. Waiving questions, they had
passed by. Had there been a perspicacious
observer he would have seen strange expressions
upon these three slices. Dr. Eeilly, who
strode first, with an air of determination
and displeasure, had an undoubted look of
anxiety in his somewhat stern, thoughtful
face. The rotund major followed, with
something of the expectant tiptoe movement,
and a sparkling anticipation of something
good in his eye, and not a trace of

anxiety. On Neville, who lagged far behind,
there was a kind of sheepishness, which, ina
man of his order, was, to say the least,
unusual.

But Mrs. Elmore read no such signs as
these ; she turned her head to welcome the
new-comers.

I fear, gentlemen, you will require help,"
she exclaimed. " Let one of you go instantly
for a doctor."

But Reilly was on his knees beside her
before her words were ended. " I am a
doctor, madam," he replied quietly, while
the expression of displeasure and anxiety
deepened. '' I regret you should have been
subjected to this alarm the accident has, I
fear — I must investigate. Madam, would
you kindly order some water to be sent
from your house ? "

*' Brandy," suggested the major, in a deep
voice. Upon which Eeilly turned upon
him an inscrutable glance.

JVIrs. Elmore rose hastily, and turned to

look for Kate ; but she in the confusion of
the moment had disappeared ; so Mrs.
Elmore herself hurried away on the errand.

'how devilish well the voun2[ door does
it I " whispered the major, admiringly.
Reilly, did you see that lovely creature
stealing away just as we came up ? Ravishing,
upon me "

'' He's hurt," said Reilly, gruffly. " Can't
you see this is no shamming ? "

"Why didn't he jump it?"

Didn't you hear the branch break ?
He fell."

The major looked mystified. This was
a spree " — or what should have been " a
spree," he thought. AVhat was it likely to
turn into now ? A tragedy, perhaps ; and
he had been the chief instigator.

The head must have come into contact
with something," murmured the doctor,
better disposing his patient.

By the Lord, I think they're both acting !
Eeilly's playing his part as well as the
other."

With a laudable desire not to be behind,
O'Buncous turned to Neville, who stood
abstractedly silent, " Don't look so helplessly
frightened, man ! Did you never see a
comrade shot before your eyes in the field, I
wonder ? No ; you're a raw recruit yet.
Bestir yourself ; go and assist the lady ! "
But producing no effect upon Neville, he
stepped up to him, and with his hand to his
mouth whispered the words, " Hang it, you
look like a fool ! You ouo^ht to be hanoinor
over his body ; you ought to let them see
how you are affected'*

Anybody but a fool could see how I am
affected," exclaimed Neville, politely.

"Oh, thanks," said the doctor, as an
elderly woman ran hastily up with the water.

Mrs. Elmore was looking somewhat perplexed
as she stood hesitating on the steps
of the drawing-room window, and looked
out over the lawn.

What ought I to do ? I am next to
certain that he cannot be removed. One

cannot bear the thought — the mere thoucrjit
of being heartless or unchristian-like. Yet
such men, and young men too, it is most
distressing ! Where is Kate, I wonder ?
Fortunately the other girls are out of the
way. I had better give them the morning-room
; that can best be spared."

Then, having made her decision, she
turned resolutely and walked across the
garden. Gracious she was, as a woman of
her kind should always be, when even she
determines to do a thing unpleasing to herself,
and graciously she spoke. It was hardly
like conferring a favour ; it was more like
receiving an obligation when she said to
Doctor Eeilly —

Had you not better remove him to the
house ? Pray use my home as your own.
Do not hesitate to ask for anything you
require. I myself will prepare with my own
hands what may be necessary. Do you
think your friend is seriously injured ? I
can form no judgment."

"Nor I, madam," said Reilly, sith pronounced
courtesy. '' I shall avail myself of
your great kindness of necessity, though I
deeply regret the cause, and the inconvenience
to yourself."

How lyell the be2ro:ar does it," thought
the major.

I'm afraid I must leave him now," said
Reilly, as if to himself. 'ewe dare not
convey him, but by proper means. Have
you such a thing as — well, perhaps I had
better go and see for myself"

'' I think I know," said Mrs. Elmore,
hurriedly. " Come with me to the greenhouse."


She had grasped his meaning instantly,
and he followed her.

The whole affair had only been the work
of a few minutes, and yet the delay to Mrs.
Elmore's mind was irritating.

The shelves are not fixtures ; they can
be easily removed. How dreadful to lose
time like this ! "

We have not lost a second yet," was the
quick reply. " These will do admirably ; "
and he swiftly began to remove the flowerpots
to effect a rapid clearance, while she
as rapidly assisted. " Oh, pray don't you
touch anything ! Why couldn't one of those
men have had the sense to follow me ? ' "

*' I'm not afraid of soiling my hands,"
said she, working as rapidly as he did. " Our
old gardener will be no use ; he would be
dazed at anything but his own work."

I saw him — utterly incapable. Would
you mind sending one of those fellows hereat
once ? "

She turned on the instant, and one of
those fellows " was to be seen making his
way towards them. It was Neville.

O'Buncous becoming curious, and thinking
the matter now ripe for success, directed
his steps towards the house, and, strange
contingency, here was the wounded man
left alone.

And now from those thick rhododendrons

came forth quietly, Kate, with pale face and
awed eyes. They rested on nothing but
that prostrate form, which she approached
timidly, as if fascinated by it. Half unconsciously
she drew from her pocket a
little silver vinaigrette, and, kneeling by his
side, held the strong aromatic essence to his
nostrils.

It was strange to her that after a gasp, a
momentary shivering of the frame, the eyes
should unclose and rest full upon her. It
was a singular meeting those stairs of eyes
had then. Hers still dilated, calmly fixed
on his ; his, clouded, dazed, gazed upon hei',
seeing those eyes only, as if in a halo of mist.

The seconds they looked thus seemed a
space of time a thousand times repeated.

They lived hours in those seconds.

Then in a sweet low voice, that seemed to
come from a miraculous distance, came the
words, " Are you in pain ? Shall I lift your
head ? Oh, he cannot speak ! Help, someone
! '' And Kate's clear rich voice rang

VOL. 1. 7

out to be heard by every one within house
or grounds.

This was a sight, indeed, to meet . a
mothers eye, as Mrs. Elmore advanced,
followed by O'Buncous and Reilly, carrying
two heavy planks, over which the former
was expending much useless exertion. This
was part of the joke he had not bargained
for ; he really wondered at Eeilly.

Haven't we carried this a little too far ? "
he puffed out in an undertone, from the
other end of his dusty burden.

"We are not half there," replied Reilly,
angrily.

I mean the joke," said O'Buncous, with
emphatic impatience.

Mrs. Elmore appeared unnecessarily
startled at the proximity of her beautiful
daughter to this equally beautiful stranger.

'skate," she whispered impressively.
Go ! go away and hide yourself"

But Kate's perception of her mother's
anxiety was lost in her own excitement.

"He is alive' she said, in a low clear
voice ; '' he has moved."

That is well' said the doctor ; and then
he signalled to Mrs. Elmore to remove Kate.

o

The mother took the girl by the arm
and led her away. "I am not wanted
now' she said.

Still Kate would have lingered. "It
seems inhuman. Some help may be wanted
that a woman well could give' she
whispered.

My dear, we are quite helpless here.
Come in. You are so unused to — to accident.
You forget you are but a girl."

If I had been alone here, I should never
have left him, nor remembered my girlhood
any more than his manhood. Mamma,
how dreadful to think that even now he
may die ! "

She shuddered as she half whispered the
words, and her lips paled. A strangely
abrupt thought came into her mind. If
those eyes should never unclose, and she

had intercepted their last look on earth,
she realized that in the one long gaze her
soul had learnt a new feeling, her heart had
expanded to a quickened sympathy with
humanity. In those calm eyes she recognized
a power that had almost magnetized
her, so complete was the absorbing demand
to read her own. Her own ? How was he
impressed by those eyes of hers to which
she had never given a moment's consideration
in her life ?

Kate, it always is a shock to the inexperienced
to witness death, or even danger.
You are overstrung ; " and the mother noted
with pain the lovely features so unnaturally
lit by her emotion.

But the girl did not hear ; she slid her
arm from her mother's, and went into the
house before her.

CHAPTER VII.

THE REAL AWKWARDNESS OF THE POSITION.

While this scene was being enacted, Colonel
Bathurst was strolling about his gardens in
his own quiet way, for to him real luxury
was to be found in the contemplation of
beauty.

When O'Buncous came in sight, Bathurst
observed a strangeness in his friend's aspect,
even as he approached, a sort of deferential
air that sat oddly upon him. He walked
on hurriedly, and spoke hurriedly and half
dubiously.

"I've come — that is, I've been sent —
hem "

You appear to have been sent against
your mil," said Bathurst, jestingly.

"I've a deuced unpleasant thing to tell
you !

Then the colonel faced him. "You'd
better out with it," he said.

That precious cool young nephew of
yours is in a scrape."

"Vin?"

Yes, he. Reilly sent me off to explain ;
but I'll be hanged if I can."

Do be serious, O'Buncous ! "

I can't ! I don't know whether I am
serious or not."

This Libertinism had the effect of irritating
Bathurst's serenity.

Confound it ! he serious to oblige me.
AVhat's wrong ? "

Well, he's just gone over a wall ten feet
high, and come a cropper in the Glade
gardens."

Hurt ? " demanded the colonel, imperatively.


Damned if I know ! " answered O'Bun-
cous, helplessly.

Bathurst settled his square shoulders, and
fixed an impressive gaze upon his old friend.
For God's sake, be plain ! What has
happened to the boy ? "

Then the major grew warm. " I tell you
I don't know ! " he exclaimed. '' I half
suspect they're playing the fool with me,
after all. A lark's a lark ; but when you
come to play a practical joke upon a man —
it isn't easy to explain it to another man,
that's all."

*' Oh ! isn't it ? " observed the colonel,
a little viciously. Then there was silence
for a few seconds. " Perhaps you'll condescend
to tell me where the boy is. I will
soon discover the rest for myself."

Didn't I tell you he was over the garden
.wall ? " yelled the major, exasperated. " But
whether he is hurt or not, I won't undertake
to say. Reilly's as bad as the rest."

"Really you don't seem to be much
better, O'Buncous. You must be playing
a practical joke on me."

Me ? Bless me soul ! L am the victim.
Took here, Bathurst, boys will be boys.
You can't be hard on 'em. We've been
young ourselves not so long ago. The
secret is, they wanted to look at the girls —
heard their voices in the garden — temptation
too strong, et cetera. Told them plainly
I couldn't climb a tree "

But boys will be boys — you proposed
it ? Yes. Vin isn't the man to dish-race
himself in a common escapade. "

Dash it ! it's only natural."

Natural ! if a man could never see a
woman but by climbing a tree. Confounded
nonsense ! Now, then, is it a trick ? and
are you all in it ? "

Just what I can't tell you 1 " cried the
major, excitedly. " It was a joke up to
the time we were outside — but I'm damned
if I know if it was a joke inside — for I and
Eeilly carried him in on a stretcher to the
house. And this I will say, the thing was
precious well done — if it wasn't real. Anyhow,

the game has been worth the candle,
for of all the lovely, ravishing young
beings "

Here O'Buncous became aware that the
colonel had resolutely buttoned his coat,
and was striding away in the distance.

Then the major looked around with a
thoroughly crestfallen air.

"But it will never do to be out of the
hunt," he thought, following Bathurst at a
discreet distance. " By Heaven ! she was a
beauty. Perhaps the loveliest creature I
have ever seen.'^

But he was too ill at ease to enjoy even
this delicious reflection, for a mortifying idea
possessed him that he had been duped, and
that all the party would now be aware of it.

Bathurst lost no time, and, with that
perfect self-possession which was natural
to him, found his introduction to Mrs.
Elmore most easy. The fact really being
that his earnest anxiety was so plainly
apparent that she would have been less than

woman who could have met him with an
unsympathetic spirit. She led him to the
room at once.

Well, Reilly ? " he said, hastily, and then
paused ; for he could see things were wrong.

"There is harm," said Reilly, gravely.
'principal difficulty in the ankle. No real
danger. Clear your mind of that."

Mrs. Elmore left the room.

O'Buncous has been confusion me with a
cock-and-bull story of what I can now see
he was afraid to tell."

The most annoying thing in the whole
affair is that I cannot have him moved.
I haven't yet been able to decide what injury
is done," said the doctor.

That's awkward, as you say. How
quietly he lies ! Reilly, are you sure he is
right ? "

I'll take care of that," was the reply,
given very earnestly. " Trust me."

And you will stay with him ? "

I should not think of leaving."

Very few words between those men were
sufficient.

I shall take the opportunity of making
things a little clear to Mrs. Elmore," said
Bathurst, after awhile ; and he opened the
door.

At the same moment Mrs. Elmore came
out of the drawing-room, and crossed the
hall to meet him. Critical as he was with
regard to women, at the first glance her soft
retiring air, yet perfectly composed address,
had charmed him. Her beauty, too, being
of an unexceptionable kind, might have prepossessed
him, who can say ? As it was,
the unmistakable good breeding, manifested
by the tones of her voice, impressed him
more pleasantly even than her beauty.

"It is to me a source of regret that our
introduction should be of this kind. We
ought to have met before," he said.

Perhaps. But allow me to take the opportunity
of thanking you for the great consideration
you have shown me in every way."

Now he knew that she was here alluding
to the many arrangements he had made for
her comfort, and also that he lead respected
her desire for seclusion. She led the way
to the room she had just left, and he followed
her. There a tall statuesque girl stood
confronting him, evidently preparing to take
her departure. She bowed without looking
at him, and passed on.

'* Stay, Adelaide ! This is Colonel Bathurst.
You need not go away." — Then she
turned to him, and added, " My eldest
daughter."

With another grave bow the young lady
returned to her seat.

And now it is my turn to make a pretty
speech to you, Mrs. Elmore ; but indeed, I
hardly know how to thank you for your
kindness."

Common humanity," she added, smiling.
"What I really want to say is, that the
only return I can make will be to do all in
my power to assist you in this difficulty.

I have already told your friend, the doctor,
that my house and servants are at his command,
and if I may be allowed to add
myself, I shall be better pleased."

'^I have always observed, Mrs. Elmore,
that women seldom do things by halves.
When they are gracious, they will make a
man ashamed of his paltry condescensions
in the magnificence of their own. "

Mrs. Elmore smiled half sadly. " That is
a very gallant speech," she said. ''I am not
sure, however, but that it is true."

"It is true, according to my vision," he
replied, unaffectedly.

Then they reverted to the accident, and
sirs. Elmore explained that certain arrangements
could be made by which the doctor
would be enabled to stay with his patient.

'rit is a most unwarrantable trespass. I
don't know that I shall ever get over it,"
said the colonel. '* However, I am aware
when an exception is made in my favour,
and know how to value it."

I must not allow you to forget that you
have made exceptions in mine."

You are unfair to yourself, madam," he
said, with grave politeness. " The balance
is so unequal."

My mother is always unfair to herself,"
said Adelaide, her face animated into full
beauty, as she lost the consciousness of reserve.
" She did all she could, and will do
all she can, whether you are Colonel Bathurst
or not."

"That is something like advocacy," he
answered, thinking what a lovely woman
she was, and how totally unlike her mother,
and feeling interested, in spite of himself,
into curiosity.

So, then, it is settled that you take that
part of the house to yourself The two
adjacent rooms will be so convenient."

Well, then, I accept, and make no attempt
to thank you now. But by allowing
Doctor Reilly to take the law into his own
hands "

"Doctor — Reilly ? " she asked, in a strange,
surprised tone."

"Dr. Eeilly, who is now in attendance."
I found something strangely familiar in
his face, and now the name is familiar too.
And yet — the association has been long-passed.
It cannot be he "

Let me bring Reilly here ? "
Bathurst arose.

No. Let me send him here," said Adelaide,
rising. " I will remain with his
patient."

By no means," exclaimed Mrs. Elmore,
quickly.

Pardon, mother, it is my place. I
ought to be there ; " and she went out
quickly.

Then Mrs. Elmore sat down again, looking
pale and absent. She sighed, and remained
silent until Reilly entered. The colonel,
still more interested, thought she was conjecturing
on the resemblance she had discovered.


She turned with a start, and seemed to
suddenly awake from a dream when she
looked at the two men before her.

"Excuse me," she said, with a visible
effort, "was your father — you are young —
was your father in the army ? "

Yes ; he was in the army until two
years ago."

"And a doctor?"

"Certainly."

Arthur Kestrel Reilly ? "

"The same."

Again her eyes went into the distance, and
remained ; and how sadly pathetic the beautiful,
care-worn face looked. Both men
observed her sympathetically.

There were tears in her eyes now as she
turned and extended her hand, while she
said, " Then you are the son of one of my
husband's truest friends, one whom I shall
never forget, and one to whom 1 owe
much."

Reilly pressed her hand cordially. " I

am glad that is so ; you will have full confidence
in me now."

You had that when I first looked at
you' she said, simply. '•' You will understand
perfectly that it will be my pleasure
to do everything that is necessary for your
comfort. You will, T am siu^e, excuse me
now. Old recollections have crowded upon
me, so that I am hardly myself" With
eyes still shining and a slight inclination
of the head, she went out.

'•' Fortunate, as the case stands," was
Reilly's laconic remark.

'' I Thrill take care to have everything —
everything I can think of — sent to you.
Save her as much trouble as possible," said
the colonel, warmly.

In that case don't send ' everything.'
I will make known my requirements. The
real awkwardness of the position consists in
the fact that, for some reason, these ladies
desire strict seclusion."

We will see that their seclusion shall be

VOL. I. 8

as strictly kept by ourselves;" said Bathurst,
loftily. '' Why, there is O'Buncous wandering
about outside. He must be warned off.
I'm afraid he lacks the delicacy to meet the
family upon the terms for which we are
prepared. Ill give him a strong hint at
once." At this point the doctor shrugged
his shoulders. " Let me sec, you want the
large portmanteau sent round. You will
see me again to-day. Good-bye." Then
Bathurst hastily went out.

The major's spirits were considerably
depressed, that was very evident, and for
this small mercy his old friend Was grateful.

I will keep up the severity, however,
to keep him out of mischief," he thought.

The old gardener was cutting a hedge ;
as they passed, O'Buncous put a coin into
his hand. " Leave the gate unfastened
tomorrow," he said, as he passed on.

But the colonel's ears had caught part
of the sentence.

Keep the gate closed," he said, in a

voice so full of stern command that the old
man stopped his work, and looked np in
awe, and touched his cap obediently.

"Well, you might have spoken first.
I've wasted sixpence."

CHAPTER VIII.

GOOD Morning."

'^ You were right, Adelaide, in going to see
Mr. Seymour yesterday. I had forgotten
for the moment that it was an excellent
opportunity for you to become somewhat
acquainted with the outside world, since
it is settled you should meet it."

The sentence ended with a weary sigh,
as though the speaker were grieved it should
be so.

I shall not expect my work outside to
be with such pleasant people as Doctor
Reilly and that beautiful boy. How very
odd you should have known his father !
"Who was he, mamma ? "

'■' I think, perhaps, I ought to tell you,
Adelaide, that he was, besides being one
of your father's dearest friends — that he
was with him entirely during his illness in
India. Your father retained the memory
of that friendship to the last."

"Yes," said Adelaide, in a low subdued
voice. Then she saw the figure of Bathurst
walking towards the house. ]airs. Elmore
had given him a key of that dreadful
monastic gate which shut the Glade from
the world. Adelaide hastened to change
the topic. " See, there is the colonel.
You wanted to speak to him about those
grapes and things he showered on us."

"My dear, I laye shunned the world so
long that I almost shrink from meeting
any one now. You rust ; therefore I will
leave that to you."

I am resolved to let no difficulties stand
in my way. Fortunately I laye been able
to discover that I suffer no embarrassment
in the presence of strangers." And Adelaide

sat down and commenced to arrange her
work methodically.

Mrs. Elmore's eyes dwelt long and admiringly
on the gracefully Ijent head, the
noble prow, the pale clear complexion of
this dignified woman, who seemed still only
a girl to her.

Not once for the next hour did a thought
of Colonel Bathurst strike the girl's mind ;
she Worked steadily on in silence, for she
was alone. Then, hearing a footstep, she
rose quickly, and hastened out to intercept
him on his departure.

He was going very slowly, almost unwillingly,
and glancing around expectantly.
"Ah, good morning! So glad to see some one.
How strong a thing habit is ! I can't feel I
have a right to come in without a welcome."

Would it really ease your mind to say
i^ood morniniij ' before you oho to Mr.
Seymour ? " she asked, smiling. " 1 will
cause mamma to appear for a few seconds,
if you desire it."

By no means ! I refuse to encroach
upon her generosity in any way. I only
meant some one."

*' Since any one will do, and she is so
retiring, I will try and remember that you
want some one to bow to in future."

And then he bowed with the utmost
gravity ; she was equally grave.

I know that Doctor Reilly is satisfied.
He was very anxious in the night, but now
he says that he is almost certain the injuries
local. Colonel Bathurst, it is very extraordinary
— no one has spoken of it yet, as
far as I know — but, how did the accident
occur {

He hesitated. " It may seem very
extraordinary to you, but, in my anxiety
for the boy, it has never once occurred tome
to inquire into the matter."

Exactly. You were fully occupied
yesterday in seeing that the doctor had
aU he required."

'' I actually forgot my dinner," he said.

'' My guests politely waited until they were
tired."

I have not much sympathy for them.
If anything could be less consequence than
another, it would be going without one's
dinner," she said, carelessly. " But I am
forgetting my message. My mother wished
me to tell you to send your delicacies a
little less lavishly, unless your patient's
capacity for such things should be of an
extent not shown at present."

I will be careful," he said, discreetly.

'' And Doctor Reilly said he must not
have so many flowers in his room. You
know, I go there when I like ; that is my
privilege. I had to give a heap of them
to my sister this morning. She was in
raptures with them."

"Nothing better could be desired. Nobody
goes into raptures over them in my
conservatories."

She positively dotes on beautiful things ;
and our flowers, although we have plenty,
are only of the commonest kinds."

So do I," said Bathurst, with some
enthusiasm. ''I love beauty absolutely.
And, here iu this place, I enjoy it perhaps
more than elsewhere ; for from my boyhood
I remember these trees. The shape
of that gnarled trunk is as familiar to my
eye as my mother's face. The Glade was
always lovely."

It is the loveliest place I have ever
seen," she answered. •'' I don't mean to
qualify that opinion, mind, but at present
I have really seen very little."

They had strolled on very slowly while
they talked, and were now standing under
the shade of the magnificent oaks that
formed the great attraction of the Glade.
And surely, the attraction was great, with
this rich autumn sunlight falling on those
noble trees, and glimmering: through their
russet leaves on to the fresh green turf
below, the slope winding here and therethrough
Cjuite natural inequalities of ground,
finding a gradual descent to where could

just be seen a silver glittering streak, showing
the winding curve of the river.

When the Pierpoints lived here, my
eyes where never gladdened as they are now.
But the place was unoccupied for years."

You are, then, fond of trees ? '' said
Adelaide.

"My mother chose this place, knowing-nothing
of it, entirely from this oak, which
stood in the foreground of the drawing
which was sent to her. There is so much
latent beauty in a tree — so much hidden
meaning."

Mrs. Elmore happened to glance from
a window, and saw that they were talking
earnestly. Her face grew very sad as she
gazed, and her lips trembled ; but she
turned away, and set the rebellious lips ina
very firm line. Still those ominous
thoughts clung to her, and they were not
to be disposed of, though she had turned
her eyes away. Her heart remained with
that well-beloved child, who for the first

time in her life, tliougii thirty years of it
had passed by, was thrown into a position
of intimacy with a man.

And indeed, Adelaide seemed most familiar
with the position. She might all her life
have been accustomed to walk and talk
with men, considering the ease with which
she did both. Certainly she felt singularly
at home with the colonel.

Do you contemplate making medicine
your study ? " he asked, tentatively. '' I
am judging from your observation before
you saw my nephew."

No, no' she answered, with a smile ;
"I do not aim so high. I have for many
years hoped to make my life useful, and at
last my mother has given her permission
to my taking up some work that may be of
benefit to others. So next month I am
going north, to take a district among the
poor."

Have you any positive ideas ? "

Very positive," she answered, with that

charming; half-smile that had no tinge of
satire in it. " But — about what ? "

The duties you undertake. I am rather
vague "

So am I — very. I am going to a clergyman,
whom mamma once knew. His wife
will instruct me at the commencement.
After that I must find my own way."

''Do I understand that you have lived
in strict seclusion until now ? "

We have lived in the strictest seclusion
since my father's death, and that was fifteen
years ago. And then even I was a mere
child." After a slight pause she went on
with alacrity, " So I may indeed say I have
the world before me — quite untried."

It is a very serious responsibility," he
said, gravely.

I don't intend to take the whole of the
planet on my shoulders just at once. I
shall find my way carefully about it at first.
We can't expect to run before we can
walk."

Does Mrs. Elmore really approve ? or,
excuse me, does she give way under
pressure 1 "

He looked steadily at the girl, whose face
changed suddenly at his words.

*' A question so difficult to answer truthfully
that I would pass it, if you please."

"Forgive me, but you have given the
answer."

"How?"

That is a question difficult to answer.
Still it is clear to me that she does disapprove
; but, that her love being stronger
than yours, she, after some struggle for
what she believes to be best, gives way to
you.

The colour rushed into her face, and made
her lovelier than ever.

She cannot love me more," she commenced,
with angry enthusiasm; and then
she stopped suddenly, and all the energy
and light went straight out of her face.
''I do not know," she said, thoughtfully.

Perhaps you arc right. I am very ignorant
of some things."

He was thinking how wonderfully expressive
her face was, when the faintest
rustle of a dress drew his attention to
another girl, fairer, if possible, than this ; for
Kate's glowing beauty was of that order
which extinguished for a moment the more
perfect lines of her sister. Kate was
harmony incarnate. So Bathurst thought
while her sweet voice thrilled him, even by
the utterance of a few commonplace words,
so musical was their tone.

Mamma wants you, Adelaide. She said
you must have forgotten all about the jam."

'' And so I had. This is my sister Kate,
Colonel Bathurst. You'll find in her one who
thoroughly sympathizes with your intense
ideas on beauty. Don't detain Colonel
Bathurst, Kate. Good morning ! "

Again that dio-nified bow, and she was

gone.

'' And is your sister, then, as devoted to

jam as you are to beauty ? " lie asked, playfully.


"Oh no ! She makes it principally forme.
Indeed, I am quite in despair when I
think of her leaving us. She does make
such delicious things."

"Do you, then, adore delicacies as you
do beauty ? I have found a kindred spirit."

He felt on totally different terms with
this careless, bright young creature ; besides,
her very youth gave him a freedom. He
felt he was not quite his own master with
her statuesque sister.

Kate laughed, not loudly, yet the laugh
was clear and far-reaching. He recognized
in it those particular notes Vivian had
admired in church.

Not quite as much. I do love flowers
better than jam. And what exquisite things
those were you sent this morning ! I don't
know the names of half of them. Now,
Mary did ; she's so clever, you know."

Is that another sister ? "

Ob, I forgot ; you don't know lier.
Nobody knows us, and we know nobody."

There you bave the advantage of me — I
don't know 'nobody'" said Bathurst, with
mock gravity.

Aofain that delicious lauo'b. Mrs. Elmore
beard it this time, and went to the window.

T ought not to bave sent Kate. You,
Mary, bave a thousand times more discretion.
Go and bring ber in."

Without a word, Mary, in ber white morning
gown, and ber fair long air plaited ina
thick mass, showing its whole length,
walked with mechanical coolness into the
garden, and recognizing the colonel by the
merest bend of ber bead, without once
raising ber eyelids, bade ber sister remember
that she must not detain Colonel Bathurst,
and that ber laughter might disturb the
invalid.

"You haven't the least idea bow my
nepbcw dotes on sweet sounds. It would
do bim good to bear the faintest echo of
your sister s voice."

'' Not when he is asleep," said Mary,
briefly. And then she put her hand upon
her sister's arm, and, after the shortest
adieux, Bathurst had the pleasure of watching
their graceful forms disappear.

Now, Reilly, from his commanding position
in a room with three windows at
different angles, had seen all this, and smiled
as he remembered the colonel's grandly
uttered words as to keeping up the ladies'
"strict seclusion."

VOL. 1.

CHAPTER IX.

CONSCIENCE.

Mrs. Elmore and lier three daughters had
been all in all to each other for many years.
They were sufficiently intelligent to be able
to endure their retirement, and find all their
resources within themselves. To be comparatively
happy is much in this world, and
this lesson their mother had constantly impressed
upon her girls, knowing well that
to the majority of women such lives would
have been insufferably dull, while to others
Avhose training had taught them to believe
that society was the be all and end all of
existence, such lives would have been simply
impossible.

But she deserved her success, imperfect

though it was, for she had dedicated her
whole life and thought to her children, and
they never guessed how much they owed
her. One result had, however, been achieved,
and it was that her daughters loved her devotedly,
and ^"ied with each other in showing
the tenderness of their solicitude for one
who, through all her trouble, had considered
them above all things.

It was a cruel fate that crossed Mrs.
Elmore's path at this time. She had
struggled against nature for the right ;
always, as she contended to herself, verily
against nature, but for the rio-ht.

And now an incident, strange as it was
unexpected, had upset every plan, and had
thrown her daughters into the very danger
she had avoided. It occurred to her. in
the depths of her anxiety, to request the
girls to keep entirely to their own rooms,
and not to walk in the garden ; but this
seemed an overstrained measure, one that
might even be apt to provoke rebellion in

the spirit if not in the letter. Again, did
not each one know the path that was marked
out for her in this world ? Did not each
one know what was to be avoided ? And
again, were not these men gentlemen ? She
had nothing' to fear from them. And what
could be more unlikely than that these pure,
delicately reared girls, spotless as they were,
should be attracted by the first man, how-over
suitable he might be, who approached
them ?

For Adelaide, she could have no fear.
She had l)cen compelled to admit of her
daughter's capacity to go out in the world
alone. Would it not, then, be the height of
inconsistency to assume that she ought not
to speak to a man who had shown so much
consideration, and who was, as she repeated
to herself, undoubtedly so thoroughly a
gentleman as Colonel Bathurst ?

While these reflections passed through her
mind, she observed Colonel Bathurst speaking
to Kate on the lawn. Of course she was

but a child to him, and the mother saw that
he reo-added her in that ho'ht. Whenever
they met they had merry little battles of
words, and Kate was always free and unaffected
before him. Still, perhaps her very
anxiety made this loving woman suspicious,
for of late she had noticed that Kate occasionally
fell into fits of a1)str action, and she
knew enough of human nature to be sure
that this meant some sort of change, if not
mischief.

"Doctor Eeilly's compliments, ma'am;
and could he speak with you ? "

Ask him whether he will come here tome,
or whether I shall go to ^h. Seymour's
room."

Only one week had elapsed, and although
the distance had been uniformly kept to the
letter of the law, yet, when any of these
people did meet, they were most friendly.
They could not help being so, for they were
eminently suited to each other, and they all
recognized this.

"Doctor Reilly will come' to you if you
sire alone''

And in another minute the young man
came in. He closed the door, and she indicated
a seat in the bay window, in which
she was sitting. His step was brisk and
decided, like all his movements, and his
eyes were keen to match. The rest of his
features were, however, rather of the solid,
thoughtful type.

So like his father," she thought. '' Certainly
a man to trust in any degree."

The keen, grey eyes softened considerably
as they gazed upon her.

You are not looking quite so well — a
little harassed, I should say. I am sure,
Mrs. Elmore, you are not well."

You did not come to say that," she
answered, with a smile that chased the care
from her face ; " and — true to your profession,
I perceive. Allow me to say that you
look paler than you did a week ago."

Then he smiled.

Yes ; I'm not used to confinement. But
your rooms are delightfully airy, and light,
and healthful''

"Yes. I have given some thought to
such things for the children's sake. Won't
you be seated ? "

I first want to ask you if you have any
objection to have the door open when yom
daughter is singing ? I find my patient,
who is passionately fond of music, is soothed
and delighted when he hears her. If by
such means we could lessen the distance
between them, would you object ? "

Most certainly not. I will tell Kate.
She will be going to practise in a few
minutes. She is bidding Colonel Bathurst
good-bye now."

Then Eeilly went out quickly — he did
everything with the same decision — and
opened the door of Vivian's room. Then
he returned to her, and presently the strains
of Kate's grand voice were heard singing
one of Storage's most pathetic ballads.

They could almost hour the-words from
where they sat.

*' AVhat a magnificent voice she has ! It
would make her fortune in the world."

I believe that," said Mrs. Elmore,
quietly. " But a fortune would be no use
to Kate."

I don't know that a fortune is the most
desirable thing in the world," said he, following
her tone. "Yet it appears somewhat
a pity so great a gift as that should be
wasted."

I think so too," she said, calmly.

Then they both paused to listen to "Down
by the Ever," the impassioned music, the
pathetic words melting together, thrillingly
united by the girl's fresh, clear voice.

When chill blows the wind, and tempests are
beating,
I'll count all the clouds as I mark them retreating ;
For true lovers' joys, well-a-day ! are as fleeting."

By the time the refrain was ended, Mrs.
Elmore's eyes were full of tears. She shook

them away a little angrily. " You are
right ; I am out of sorts to-day. That song
always affects me ; it is association."

I'm not surprised that any one should be
affected by that sympathetic voice. I am,
although I do not know the words. Your
daughter's training; has been '"'

More of nature than art. I have taught
her all I knew, and she has gone far beyond
me. I knew that I was giving her a
pleasure of a lasting order. More than that
a joy ; so I spared no pains."

''AVill you think me unjustifiably impertinent
if I ask you one question ? " said
Eeilly, knowing he was taking a risk, and
prepared for it.

He need not have been afraid ; she was
only too glad to accept help from such a
man as he, and she felt weak and desponding.

You are mystified about us, that is the
truth. Doctor Eeilly, and I do not wonder
that you should be. However, some things
are, as you know, very hard to talk about.

I ueecl not, therefore, enter into painful
details, although I still have the most
earnest desire to inform you that there is
urgent and overpowering reason why my
daughters should not marry. I am, perhaps,
one of the most unhappy women on the face
of God's earth, because my cross is so hard
to bear. In some things I am blest. In my
daughters I have every reliance, every satisfaction.
I am speaking to you quite without
reserve. Their hearts are as good as their
minds are rational ; therefore I have been
able to deal with them as I have dealt. But,
unfortunately, they are beautiful. You know
that," she added, apologetically. " If it had
not been for that, I could have acted so
differently ! I could have travelled with
them, given them varied interests. But can
I do anything but seclude such girls as
these ? "

She looked so painfully earnest as she
uttered these words that Reilly hesitated.
It was unlike him.

"All!" she said, "even your decision
fosters, I can see."

"No, Mrs. Elmore. I am thinking how
I can express myself to you. I have thought
over the matter many times since it has been
my privilege to be in this house. I have
much to say."

Say what you like," she said. " I have
heard no man's voice in any matter that
concerns me, and I should be gratified to
know what you really think. You cannot
offend me, for I know you will speak
according to your conscience ; and I know
that I can trust you."

"Then," said he, "I will begin hy
assuming that your decision is one that
admits of no dispute."

"' There can be no doubt of that," she said,
emphatically.

"Then we will start there. You admit
that your daughters are beautiful. They
are eminently attractive. You have made
them so. From your high moral standpoint

you have drawn them up, so to speak, by
your side. You have spared no study, no
thought for their welfare. I need not tell
you that I have observed the beauty and
the freedom of their movements, the splendid
developments of physical strength and
physical grace."

Ah ! yes, you have observed," she said,
warming to the subject. " I have succeeded
in making them healthy and strong. This
I. value more than beauty."

"There are two views in which we can
regard this matter. I will show you. First,
forgive the abrupt question — have you
been wise in dido; this ? "

"Wise?"

There is not a doubt in your mind.
Now, I have one in mine. It is a view we
should not omit to take. You know something
of physiology, and if I make no
mistake you know something of psychology
too. Now, when you produce a creature as
near perfection as it can be, the natural

demands upon that creature ^yill equal the
standard of its perfections. If your girls
were destined to lead the lives of women, all
this would he well — nothing could be better.
But if they had grown up sickly, puny,
half-formed specimens of humanity — Mrs.
Elmore, of course, you do know how
materially the health goes to produce and
retain beauty."

She nodded assent.

*' If, as I say, they had not been so
admirably reared, your position would be
much easier ; and so would theirs."

I hope I do not understand you. It is
cruel."

But it is, unfortunately, true. Their instinct,
heart, and brains will demand more
than you can possibly give them ; therefore
I think they will be the greater sufferers on
account of their perfections."

*' Your meaning is quite clear to me ; but
I am ready to admit that such an argument
never once occurred to me. Still there is

another side even to your vie\Y. I hope —
I believe that their minds are capable of
dealing with the difficulty philosophically,
which could not be if they had had no
training. '^

Then why do you hold it necessary to
withhold them entirely from society ? "

Because, doctor, I know the strength of
human passion ! I know that temptations
would assail them, and I would save them
pain. As it is, they have resources within
themselves that many women of the world
have not. And we must remember that
many thousands of women, from force of
circumstances alone, or fate — call it what
you will — are destined to lives of unhappiness,
disappointment, and regret."

"Exactly. But these women have had
their chances in life. They have not deliberately
chosen their misfortunes ; they
may be often aware their own mistakes have
been the cause. But there has not been
absolute denial of all natural feeling, and the

candle is burnt out, the force spent. You
cannot liszt it ao-ain ; it is crone ! The lio-ht,
the heat, the strange overwhelming mystery
of life is before all your girls, and they mayn't
turn a page to unriddle it. I pity them,
Mrs. Elmore, much more in their beautiful
energy and health than I should if they
were half-bred, ill-constructed beings, who
have positively no rights to marry at all."

You regard the matter in a j)^^i'ely
physical sense, and I have overlooked that
in the moral. According to my conscience
I have done well ; but it does not follow
that I have been right. Plainly, what do
you think I ought to have done ? "

"Wrong can never be right under any
circumstances. It is like making a wonderfully
balanced machine with infinite care,
and then trying to reverse the whole
action of it — sending round the wheel the
opposite way. Like ? Why, the simile is
profane. It is taking one of God's finest,
most delicate, most sensitive organizations.

and forcing all the finer germs of being into
slow annihilation'

Mrs. Elmore's face was full of pain as she
listened to those words. They went home
to her keenly, for she had had her day, and
it had been fine — ay, glorious — up to its
meridian, when the clouds had gathered
thick and fast around her.

"I cannot help being honest. There is
no help if one does not speak one's mind,"
he said softly, seeing her shudder at his
strong words.

*' And yet my girls have not been unhappy,"
she said, thoughtfully.

Their time has not come. It would
come if you kept them locked in an enchanted
castle, for they are human. Do you
conceive it to be possible that by reason of
some undue trial and a naturally exalted
mind, you have arrived at an exaggerated
idea of right ? "

At this question, delicately as it was put,
Mrs. Elmore exhibited great uneasiness.

"There can be no doubt of that. As I
have told you, the subject is extremely distressing,
and nothing could possibly alter
my opinion. Therefore will you please take
it for granted that conscientiously my
daughters are as fully convinced of the absolute
reason for their misfortune as I myself"

He saw now that she meant to keep the
secret. He inclined his head as accepting
this decision, and went on —

Well, then, since they so well understand
their position, and are so well prepared to
meet it, since they are intellectually and
morally superior to ordinary young women,
why deny them the natural desire for
society ? You dread pain. I would say,
with minds so trained, your girls will have
happier lives by realizing a passion and
overcoming it, than by bearing within them
a never-satisfying infinite want."

This suggestion, strangely enough, did not
appear to distress her.

*' And with their training do you think

VOL. r. 10

they might resist the temptation ? " she
asked.

Ask me if you think a bird can clip his
own wings ?

Who stems a stream with sand
And fetters flame with flaxen band,
Has yet a harder task to prove —
By firm resolve to conquer love,'

or nature, it's the same thing."

Then there was silence. In a moment it
was broken most musically by Kate's voice
trilling a cadence as she came across the
hall. Mrs. Elmore composed her countenance
; Reilly leant back in his chair.

Why, what a dreadful pair of old gossips
you are ! "

"Kate''

But you are. I forget — perhaps you
haven't been talking. I always do, you see,
and I suppose it's only natural to judge
from one's own experiences."

It's a good starting-point," said Reilly,
gravely.

*' Yes, if one can go on with one's experiences
; but I can't. Well, good-bye ! I'm
going for a scamper on Ajax. I'm dying for
action."

There was a vein of tenderness through
the wild girlish words, and she hovered
about her mother as she spoke. Then she
put her hand upon JVIrs. Elmore's shoulder,
and stooping over caressingly kissed her
cheek.

There, dear, run away."

Have I committed a solecism, mamma ?
I do hope it wasn't wrong to kiss you. If
it was, Doctor Eeilly, you must excuse it,
because I know no better."

She made him just the least inclination at
parting, and went to put on her habit.

*' She is like a child," said her mother,
gravely.

In some ways, yes. I think you would
find her quite as much advanced as even
your eldest daughter in others."

Oh ! you are mistaken. Adelaide is a

totally different character ; she is discretion
itself, her feelings are under thorough control.
Kate will, I fear, never be like that."

Then you will not send her out into a
strange country without guidance, as you
do the admirable woman I have had the
pleasure of seeing much during my stay
here."

"You are cruel ! Cannot you guess how
I have tried to prevent that ? " He rose,
took her hand, and held it. With deep
compassion he said, " I feel too strongly,
sympathize too deeply with your sorrow, to
be anything but faithful to the trust you
have reposed in me. I believe I have some
truth on my side. And may I be allowed
to say one thing upon which I have no
doubt ? — for your daughter who is about to
leave you it is impossible to give too much
liberty. You understand this ? "

I think you will see that I have done
that. I have gone so far as to put her in
the way of yourself and Colonel Bathurst."

After this serious discussion Mrs. Elmore's
perplexities increased. She began to doubt
her own wisdom, for it was undeniably true,
as Eeilly had said, that the time should
come when these girls would insist, as Adelaide
had already, on taking some line for
themselves.

Oh that they had been boys," she
thought, in the bitterness of her spirit ; and
even as she half uttered the words, she
recognized that if they had been boys her
conscience, however strong, could only have
helped to influence them ; she never could
have prevented them from any step save by
persuasion.

After all she decided to take the fairest
view of things, and for the next few weeks
allow her daughters the freedom Eeilly
deemed expedient. Under her very eye,
their every footstep watched, with men such
as these who were bound in honour to
protect her, could there ever be a safer
opportunity ?

Perhaps it was because he had nothing
else to do ; but for whatever reason, it certainly
happened that Reilly's mind dwelt
continually on the curious circumstance that
had been brought before him. He asked
Bathurst one morning whether he had formed
any idea about the strangeness of the whole
proceeding as they knew it, and the colonel
merely shrugged his shoulders and gave a
very emphatic denial.

You are the man, Reilly, to have an
idea," he said.

"No, you are the man full of ideas. I
have many a conversation with your nephew
now, and he is always quoting you. You
know your notions are sometimes received
as queer ? "

"I do — by men who can t comprehend me."

And you know that I do. Well, you
give me credit for thinking things out, but
here there is a dead block. I can get at
nothing. I only surmise."

Yes ? " inquired Bathurst, expectantly.

Monomania' was the laconic reply.

"The devil! The very last thing that
would have occurred to me."

•' I should naturally take such things into
consideration," said Reilly, modestly.

Oh, it's a fact ! " exclaimed Bathurst.
You've got it, Eeilly ! It accounts for
everything. Now, I don't mind telling you
that I get more interested in this household
day by day, and I really think that from a
humanitarian point of view we had better
take the thing up."

There you go ahead of me'' said Eeilly,
quietly.

Why, don't you see ? cure the mother —
surely you don't think it's a case of monomania
all round — and earn the everlasting
gratitude of three as beautiful and irresistibly
charming women as ever existed ! "

You're as warm as O'Buncous."

Warmer. O'Buncous only talks heat —
I feel it. Without levity, I think I have a
duty here."

If yoa think you have a duty, colonel,
a wall forty feet high won't stop your gallop."
Hush ! who is that singing ? "
It was not a woman's voice ; it was a
rather husky undecided baritone, lifting
itself up with great expression in the
Minstrel Boy "—

In the ranks of death you'll found him."
It must be O'Buncous. ' In the ranks
of death,' indeed — running after a petticoat.
AVhat do you think Kate called him yesterday
? She was talking to me alone, you
know, and she said ' that comical old man.' "
"Just like her," laughed Eeilly. 'she
fools him to the top of his bent."
"And snubs him unmercifully."
He must be well used to that."
Well, Eeilly, are you going in for it ? "
I haven't thought it out yet."
But if you are not for me, you will not
be against me ? "

The answer was a penetrating, halt-amused
glance.

I see you suspect me," said Bathurst,
so I may as well admit without circumlocution
that I mean to see the end of the
mystery — of course, for the good of the community.
You can keep Vivian in the dark,
and also keep him on his back."

Here you touch me on a point of honour.
My professional reputation is concerned. As
soon as Seymour can move, he must be
moved. But I know what you mean ; we'll
hang about as long as we can for the ' good
of the community.' Seriously, I am desperately
sorry for Mrs. Elmore ; she is in
such downright earnest, is such a thorough
lady, and is so perfectly clear and rational
in every thing else, that it really becomes a
doubly interesting matter to me, knowing
her indirectly as I do."

'' Then why should you hesitate ? "

One never knows the results," said Eeilly,
impressively.

A slight sound from an electric bell.

*' That's Seymour ; I'm o£"

"So am I," said Bathurst. He saw a
certain grey dress upon the lawn.

The rooms communicated ; a few steps
took Reilly to Vivian s side. For once, the
now pale, delicately handsome face was filled
with an expression of vexation.

*' Can't you manage to stop that infernal
row ? O'Buncous is making himself such a
fool. It really reflects upon us to permit it.
Hark at him now ! Listen to his emphasis."

The deepest disgust was expressed bywords,
but the expression of his face showed
more.

O'Buncous was deep in " Green grow the

Rushes 0!"

Ye're naught but senseless asses !
The wisest man the world e'er saw,
He dearly loved the lasses ! "

Poor old fellow ! he can't sing," said
Reilly, soothingly, and repressing a smile.
'but the sentiment's good enough; no one
can deny that."

Confound the sentiment ! It's the lady

Fm thinking of. It must be agony to
Kate."

Reilly opened his eyes. " Fm inclined to
differ ; I have heard her laughing much.
Whether at him, or with him, who can say?"

"It is most irritating to me" said the
young man, composing his features and
closing his eyes.

Never mind, my dear boy. Your regard
for the comfort of these ladies, who have
been so good to you, does you honour. But
I can tell you that Miss Kate Elmore is
not the girl to put up with more than she
chooses of the society of any man, and
I know a great deal more of her than
you do."

Do you ? I doubt that," said Vivian,
languidly.

He had lain there for hours, and had
fed his romantic fancy with some of the
most passionate visions youth ever dreamt.
From the first moment his imagination had
been powerfully excited by this brilliant,

fascinating beauty, upon whom his eyes had
rested but once. But for his ears — they had
drank in every sound, for he was impressed
by music more deeply than by the whole
influence of the senses.

Reilly was a discerning man. " 1 admit
that I know more of Miss Elmore, whose
intimacy I have fortunately been able to
cultivate, than of Miss Kate. Although you
are quite right — people may know each other
by intuition sometimes, but that is rare.
I am going to wheel your sofa to the window
to-day ; you'll find it a delightful
change."

What a good fellow you are, Reilly !
As for me, I am an impatient monster."

''If it pleases you to think so," was the
polite reply. 'rit is often expedient to
humour a patient."

Then he carefully drew the huge old-fashioned
sofa to the window, and arranged
Vivian in a half-sitting posture, so that
he could see part of the garden and those

admirable trees that were the glory of the
Glade.

'' How delicious the air is ! "

"Yes. There's nothing like being deprived
of a thing to appreciate it thoroughly.
Now, there's another lesson for you to mark,
learn, and inwardly digest, while I go and
stretch my legs. Here's the bell. Now,
mind, if you're cold have the window shut.
But I think the rug will protect you, and
there's no draught."

'* Don't hurry back ; I shall be all right."

CHAPTER X.

DEVELOPING AN INTEREST IN SHELLS.

When Beauty bright
My heart's chain wove."

Perfecting a scheme of his own, Reilly
went straight to the drawing-room, and,
with an excuse readily invented, disposed
of O'Buncous. Then he turned to Kate.

You do not find him tiresome, I hope ?
Seymour has suffered much from his musical
eccentricities, and he seems to think that
you must necessarily suffer more."

She laughed. Of all the delightful sounds
that ever issued from human lips, this laugh
of hers was one of the sweetest. Reilly,
whose senses were not so acutely sensitive

to the " concord of sweet sounds," yet
acknowledged the charm.

''He has enjoyed himself," she said.
** And don't you derive pleasure from seeing
another thoroughly happy ? I do. I
think I could endure anything if I were
quite sure somebody else liked it."

Miss Kate, your philosophy is admirable,
and, allow me to add, most original. Now
this chance remark of yours makes my task
easy. Ha^dng sacrificed half an hour of
your time in charity on the major, perhaps
you will be willing to make somebody else
happy."

She looked full at him most unsuspectingly,
and gave a little nod.

Put on your garden hat, and stroll
round by Mr. Seymour's window. He has
been very low to-day, and I am sure that a
few minutes of your bright presence would
be more good than all the medicine in a
chemist's shop."

A startled, strange look came into her

face, and she lifted her great innocent blue
eyes that looked so dreamy, so solemn,
when they were not laughing.

The slight compression of Reilly's lips
told a tale that she could not read.

Kate made no answer.

You do not mind ? " he asked, gently.
He would be so glad of an opportunity to
thank you for the pleasure you have, perhaps
unwittingly, afforded him."

Her perfect freedom with himself and
Bathurst, to say nothing of the childish
play to which she condescended with O'Bun-
cous, was before his mind. To what, then,
could he attribute this shrinking from the
interview ?

"No, I can't do that," she replied,
quickly.

Reilly accepted the denial with a grave
bow.

I will go if you wish it," she said, a
little breathlessly, and so seriously that he
could scarcely help betraying some surprise.

However, she was quite beyond noticing
that. She went out without a glance at
him ; the merry lips composed into a serene
gravity, that made them sweeter than ever.

She's the sort of girl to turn any man's
head, especially one of the temperament of
Bathurst, or his nephew."

He watched her, and from where he stood
saw that she played unconsciously, perhaps
nervously, with the hat she picked up from
the great oak table in the hall.

I wonder what will come of it all ? " he
thought. " There's that fair saint-like girl,
who dresses always in white, has been sitting
out there in the shade sketching for the last
hour. I wonder if she's dumb ? I shouldn't
be surprised at anything."

Kate was conscious of making an effort ;
too conscious to find the sensation agreeable.
Still her instinct taught her, and her training
had helped to teach her, to fight out
mere sensations ; so she drew up her head,
and walked bravely on.

VOL. I. 11

What was it she was called upon to do ?
A mere trifle, surely. Then her vivid
imagination conjured up the expression of
those languid eyes showing their pain — and
something beyond pain — when she thought
that he was dying. And although never
since had she assumed the faintest interest
in him, never once had she uttered his name,
her ears had been miraculously quick to
catch the least reference to him. And had
she not sung to him, knowing that she sung
to him alone, though he was not present ?

Could it be that she had walked so fast ?
Why should she be quite out of breath
when she came within view of that window ?
She was fully conscious of a cowardly wish
to turn and run away, and gave her foot a
little impatient stamp as she recognized it.

Well, there was no one there. She
could pass by and escape. Tremulously and
very slowly she did pass by, and, glancing
once in the direction of Seymour's window,
discovered that he was there, and that his

eyes were closed, as the head rested back on
i:hat very crimson cushion she herself had
knitted.

Her light step did not disturb him. She
paused. How very pale he was ! She knew
that he had suffered a great deal, and had
borne his pain heroically. Then she forgot
herself entirely, and went close to the
window, putting one hand upon the sill, and
spoke with all the beautiful impulsiveness
of her nature.

I am very glad you are so much better,"
she said, softly.

Then Vivian opened his eyes. For the
moment his courage forsook him ; the colour
rushed into his face.

'' You are very good," he stammered.

And then both were silent.

Kate relapsed at once into that oppressive
nervousness that was so new to her.

Did I disturb you ? " she asked, shyly.

He had gained a little time.

Oh no, Miss Elmore. But the air has

acted like a strong stimulant upon me. I
recognized your voice, and thought I was
dreaming. I adore your voice."

I am very glad," she said, simply.

Her eyelids drooped all this time. Perhaps
he was pleased that they should. He was
recalling the face upon which he had gazed
but for a moment, that had haunted his
sleeping and waking dreams. He wanted
to make every line, every curve, every tint
his own ; to be as familiar with the face ashe
was with the voice. It seemed as though
he had already reached his desire, so completely
did the actual harmonize with the
ideal.

"Now, Eeilly," thought he, "would
explain this keen perfection of memory to
something in the retina."

Kate's hand lingered among the jessamine.
' There is some in bloom here, but you cannot
see it."

She picked a branch and gave it to him.
It was quite a natural, careless act on her

part ; anything was easier to her than to
stand still and be silent.

Vivian, on the other hand, was too
contented for speech. He even took the
flower in silence, and played with it half
lovingly.

It is a delicious odour ; it reminds one of
spring flowers. How flowers thrive here ! "

Kate paused after this speech, which she
was painfully aware was quite unlike herself.
She could not account in the least
for this palpitating reserve which was half
delightful, half irritating. She looked up
and met his eyes for just one moment ; that
was as much as she could bear. Then she
made another hurried, commonplace remark
for mere relief from the silence. How
composed and satisfied he was, and how
hot and trembling she was becoming !

Do you like Adelaide ? '^

He must answer this.

It would not be polite to say ' I don't,
but really the word is too insignificant. I

admire your sister, and I have a very great
respect for her. I hope I shall be able one
day to show her how I appreciate her kindness.
It is a great boon to a man deprived
of society even to see a lady, if he be not

Blind to the sunshine of a woman's smile,
Deaf to the music of a woman's voice.'

I have always felt that a lady's mere
presence is of inestimable value to those
who are really ill and suffering. We have
proved it among our soldiers, you know."

Adelaide thinks she might be of some
use in nursing, if she should fail in what
she has undertaken."

I have not heard what that is."

Principally cooking. The art has been
much neglected in this country, according
to the best authorities. She has some hope
of founding a school."

What drudgery for a woman like that ! "
exclaimed Vivian.

She would not like to hear you say so."

"Then she shall not."

One must have some aim in one's life.
By mere accident she hit upon the study
that pleased her. She first commenced for
change of occupation. I haven't found my
interest yet."

He looked at her in surprise. " Has not
music been your absorbing study ? I am
sure it has been a pleasure."

I do not deny my interest in music,
but it is not absorbing."

I think it is almost too much to expect
an absorbing interest. That can only
arrive."

That's what mamma says. She knows
we shall all find satisfaction in time. I've
been trying to get up an interest in shells,
but they are so difficult to get."

"Yes. I don't know any place about
here," he said, vaguely.

Then Kate laughed. Her eyes brimmed
over as she read his discomfiture.

"Oh no!" she said. "But I've been

exceptionally lucky ; IVe three oyster shells
already, and Major O'Buncous has promised
me a mussel shell. He says he'll steal some
for me, or beg contributions. What a funny
old fellow he is ! One can't help being nonsensical
with him."

It is difficult," said Vivian, going into
raptures over the mobile countenance that
gained so much in its varied expressions.
ril contribute at once," he went on, gaily.
Here is a specimen in some pocket," he
said, as he commenced to search. " I found
it among some things I had brought back
from my last foreign service. You shall
give it a name ; I can't."

And then he gave her a tiny shell. Their
hands touched, and, slight as the touch was,
it thrilled each one with singular force. It
frightened her, and sent her eyelids down,
and composed the lines of that sensitive
mouth. Vivian, not desiring to analyze,
simply enjoyed ; but he did not want to
close his eyes now.

m go and find out the name," she
said, shutting up the gift in her soft palm.

No, no ! don't go " " For all the

shells in creation," he should have added,
but feared.

He looked quite as anxious as his words
appeared to be.

I will come back, AVould you really
not rather be alone ? "

I hate to be alone," he said, vigorously.
Then she sped away like a lapwing over the
grass, and Reilly suddenly appeared.

You should not give your secret thoughts
to the world, my young friend," said he,
sauntering up. " You have only to summon
me — touch the bell, or rub the lamp, and
here I am. Why, you're looking ten days
better. Still, I think you have had enough
of it ; the sun's going down."

But Vivian knew that his sun was rising.

"Not yet," said he, hesitating. "Miss
Elmore is coming back."

Ah, then I'll go away. I'm half afraid

of that girl ; there's something magical about
the way she uses her eyes."

'' Uses her eyes ! "

Reilly marked the tone of displeasure.

Don't take exception to a genuine
remark. There's no implication on the
young lady ; she does not know it."

She came up. " The name is Clericus
iiifAdula. I think I've got it."

'' And what is this 4t ' ? " asked Reilly,
intercepting her.

What lamentable ignorance for a scientific
man ! " she exclaimed, with an affectation
of contempt that would have been
superb in high comedy. She was quite at
ease, now Reilly was present.

I deplore my ignorance," said he.
'^ Will you give me twenty answers — yes or
no only — and let me guess ? "

Don't," said Vivian, emphatically. "He'll
find out to a certainty ; he does it by a
system. He can discover anything."

I defy him ! " She met his eyes merrily,

and, holding out the little hand clenched,
made a picture that would gladden any
man's heart. " Go on," she said.

Inanimate ? " he asked.

Must I be quite accurate ? "

Quite."

Then I will take counsel."

She leant upon the window-sill, and in a
playful whisper asked how she could explain
that it had not been always so.

But the shell never lived," said Vivian,
laughing. " There's no chance of the fish
being alive now."

But surely if it were alive we should
calculate the shell as part of it ? Don't they
grow together ? "

Vivian looked slightly puzzled.

But anyhow, it's all dead now," he said.

Yes," she answered, turning to Eeilly.

Two heads are better than one," he said.
Mineral kingdom ? "

No," answered Kate, quickly.

But she found it necessary again to appeal

to Vivian in an undertone. ''I suppose
that's right ? But what is a shell composed
of?"

"I don't know at all' he replied, so
gravely that Eeilly interposed.

'* There will be no chance for me if you
go on like this," he said. " Vegetable ? "

*' You're sure it's not formed by encrustations
of seaweed ? " she asked, laughing,
while Seymour leaned out to listen to her.

I'm not sure. But I think it must
become animal when it's part of a living
thing," he answered.

And when the living thing deserts it, it
returns to its normal condition. I couldn't
conscientiously say it was an animal. He's
sure to ask me that next."

Miss Kate, you must be lamentably
ignorant," commenced Reilly.

But then, I'm not a scientific man !
But I do wish to be accurate, and Mr.
Seymour is of no use whatever. He knows
less than I do."

Then why appeal to him ? " asked
Reilly, with some show of reason.

"Because it's so natural to appeal to
somebody for help — whether you get it or
not, it's a comfort."

Reilly caught Vivian's eye, and both men
laughed spontaneously.

Oh, I forget, you are men ; you never
know such weakness."

The sound of their laughter attracted Mrs.
Elmore to the spot. She had just gone out
in search of Kate.

'^ Do come here, mamma," the girl cried,
as she approached; "you'll be delighted. I
am developing such an interest in shells."

Then she stopped suddenly, caught
Reilly's eye, and put her hand over her eyes
as though in shame. She was so full of
unconscious beautiful action that it was
grateful to the sense merely to watch her.

Mrs. Elmore's countenance was expressive
of mild surprise.

The cat is out of the bag," said Eeilly,
gravely. " She has betrayed herself."

How puzzled you look, mamma ! We
were playing a game, and the doctor is a
necromancer."

Ah, you will never be able to keep a
secret," said he. " My divination has gone
as far as that."

I hope she will never have one to keep,"
said Mrs. Elmore.

And there was more meaning in the quiet
words than these young people knew.

CHAPTER XL

NETTLES FOR TWO,

The fact is, Bathurst, you're always there.
What do you find to say to the old lady, eh?
I prefer the young ones."

Ah, you are perfectly safe, you see,"
said Bathurst, sententiously.

But O'Buncous was beyond the keen edge
of satire.

"" You Ve got some game on ; you always
were a sly dog. It's your quiet pigs, you
know, that run away with your loud ones'
meat."

No wonder they make a row, then ! "

It's what I call a devilish lucky event
barring your nephew ; for it's brought

me into contact with, perhaps, the only
woman who has ever reached my heart of
hearts."

And how many do you imagine you
have the originality to possess ? "

You don't understand metaphor ; your
soul isn't poetic. They're splendid women,
all of them ! Either taken separately would
be enough to settle any man's hash. I daresay
a good many might vacillate between
them, but I go straight to the mark. By-the-bye,
which of 'em do you prefer ? "

Awkward thing if we should prefer the
same woman," said Bathurst.

*' Oh, you needn't make a joke of it ! I'm
serious."

O'Buncous brought his eyebrows together
in a frown to prove it.

So am I."

Bathurst looked quite as serious.

But we have given up duelling," he
said.

Well, let's trust we shan't clash ; for,

though all's fair in love and war, I shouldn't
exactly like to cross your designs."

'' Enough of nonsense ! These ladies
are, as we well know, placed in a very
exceptional position. As I am situated,
with regard to them peculiarly, it behoves
me to give you a serious hint in the
matter. They have been very good to Yin,
and exceedingly polite to us all. It becomes
my especial duty to spare them any
annoyance."

As much mine as yours, Bathurst," exclaimed
the major, hotly ; " for I never, as
the poet says, ' laid my hand upon a woman,
save in kindness,' except once. I do remember
once. She was a laundress ; and I
had stood a good deal, as it concerned
buttons and splits ; but when it came to
finding myself without a change of linen,
and she pressing for her bill — hang it ! I
might have had a drop too much, but I
shoved her out of my room — clean out,
1 did, by George ! "

VOL. I. 12

O'Bimoous told of the incident with great
earnestness.

You ought to have been ashamed of
yourself," said Bathurst, laughing.

So ought she. But I never heard of
her again, nor of my linen."

'come, it's too late to regret that,
especially considering the condition it was
in."

Oh, it was used up, I admit. But to
return, my mind is dwelling upon an affair
of the heart. I'll keep my secret, since you
intend to keep yours. I must sound Reilly.
I shouldn't wonder if he had one too."

Well, as long as you keep it all to
yourself and Reilly, no harm can be
done. As you say, a man can't help his
feelings."

Notwithstanding this conversation, Bathurst
felt uneasy that afternoon when he
saw O'Buncous offer Kate his arm, to take
her for a walk by the river.

But he never can be fool enough I He

was always an exaggerated talker, saving
more in a minute than he would swear to ina
month."

But the uneasiness faded as he saw Adelaide
approach.

Good morning " she said. '' You'll be
delighted to find great improvement in Mr.
Seymour to-day. Dr. Reilly proposes that
he should be wheeled • out in a large armchair
; it's so easy here, the house being
nearly level with the garden. We think he
would enjoy the change of scene as much as
the air."

She spoke to him with great ease and
perfect familiarity. They had not met before
that day, so he took her hand.

Pray, how am I to address you ? " he
asked, retaining it ; "as nurse, as doctor,
or what ? "

"As cook, if you please," she said lightly,
dropping the smallest curtsy ; just an
attempt at one, for the sake of regaining
her hand without awkwardness.

He was a man of experience, and saw
through the action and the motive.

*' But surely you don't cook wholly and
entirely ? "

No ; but all delicacies I do. Chemistry
of food and scientific cooking are my serious
studies. The preparation of little nutritious
dishes is a recreation to me. I must make
experiments."

"It is a matter in which I have always
taken great interest — a very strong interest.
At one time the condition of my own health
demanded it ; but being a man, I have,
unhappily, been at the mercy of any one in
that respect. I never should have regained
my health if I had not been fortunate
enough to hit upon my present housekeeper."


Since we are only straying, pray let us
follow Kate. I saw her going down the path
in the most dignified manner with Major
O'Buncous. I think they were aping the old
style of courtly manners. He appeared to be

showing her some steps in dancing. Yes,
as you say," she continued, returning to the
interesting theme, " men are, it is understood,
unable to comprehend the simplest
matter that often appertains to their own
comfort. It is an inconsistency that I have
been as yet unable to fathom."

The fact is, it takes a man of genius to
be a cook, though any man, it seems to me,
might be able to cook a meal."

It is comprehensible that we should not
wish to waste our men of genius in that
way ; they are not so common. Still, men
have more weight in the world than women,
and, while they have it, it seems a pity we
should not have a Soyer now and then. It
would do inestimable good. You see,
ladies ' won't take the thing up, and poor
women can't afford to ; they can only do
the best for themselves. It is among these
I should wish to work. The thing most to
be regretted at present is, that the poorer
people spend money on that which is of no

use. I feel convinced that many women who
have to feed a family upon small means
would be glad to learn how to produce a
dish that would form a good and really
palatable meal for a few pence."

This is the utilitarian view. I have
never considered it in that light' he said.

"No. Yet it seems perfectly easy to prepare
a dish both good and delicious where
one can choose one's ingredients from all
the produce of the earth, irrespective of
expense."

*' Certainly ; but it isn't often done."

I have often thought," said Adelaide,
reflectively, while she scanned the path close
by the water, where she expected to find
Kate — "I have often thought that, with
such a world as I read of, there is something
inexpressively painful in knowing
that where thousands have only to consider
how they can augment their luxury, and
consequent waste, millions, even though
they should be thrifty, can only obtain

coarse and insufficient nourishment. Incase
of sickness, they must be wholly unable
to obtain bare necessities. Knowledge
would be an improvement," she added,
thoughtfully. "Knowledge Avould make
the smallest pittance go farther."

Ah, Miss Elmore, you have thought of
other things besides cooking It has sometimes
occurred to me, when dining sith
men who simply strive to outvie each other
in the expenses of their entertainments, that
the money might be more appropriately
spent, and the stomachs of the guests be
spared a deal of unnecessary trouble. I hope
you don't think me a mere gourmet''

She looked at him reproachfully.

"You cannot think so."

But would you say so ? "

1 think I should like to say anything I
thought true, when occasion demanded it,
although I'm anything but sure I have the
courage. There is Kate, frog-hunting."

If O'Buncous stoops like that, he'll be in

head first in a minute. Give me an idea of
some of these dishes ? "

It appears we waste so much of our
meat by the process of baking or roasting,
and very few understand how to stew a
small quantity of coarse meat or fish, with
common vegetables or pulse. We have had
many such dishes from my experiments, and
have found them unexpectedly good. It is
amazing the errors one might make at first,
for theory always seems to be at fault when
we come to practice. I suppose that a very
trifling error might spoil the broth. Did
you ever taste anything less ' common and
unclean ' than the choicest part of a
pheasant ? "

She smiled as she put the question ; so
did he.

You forget that I am a soldier. I was
thinking just now, knowing what a grand
point it is to feed one's men well, whether it
would be practicable to organize a staff" of
female cooks who would know how to pickup

what was at hand and make the best of
it. A man can't fight on an empty stomach.
By Jove ! there goes O'Buncous."

"Oh dear!" cried Adelaide ; 'what a
mess he will be in. That's the muddiest part
of the bank !"

Bathurst thought of the " linen," which
was unexceptionable. They hurried to the
spot. O'Buncous had scrambled out by the
time they reached him ; and Kate's look
of subdued merriment amused Bathurst.

You're not hurt ? " he asked.

"A mere slip," O'Buncous answered.
*' This lady has been taking me outside my
depth." He shook his legs, however, uncomfortably.


*' It is unlike your gallantry to throw the
blame on a kdy."

But it was all my fault," interrupted
Kate. " I was looking for water insects for
Mary."

"And now," said Eeilly, who at that
moment came up, " I will help you to

deliver them ; " and very unceremoniously
Kate and he walked away together.

O'Buncous, having shaken away a little
more water, found himself signally deserted.

Yes ; but cooked nettles really are
edible," Adelaide was saying. " We have
some to-day. Could you be persuaded to
taste them ? "

I shall need no persuasion," replied
Bathurst, blandly.

"I should think not; they'll come quite
natural to him ! " exclaimed O'Buncous,
boisterously.

When he did see a joke he made the most
of it, especially when it was his own."

"O'Buncous," said Bathurst, coolly, "there
is no immediate necessity to inform Miss
Elmore of that which you have discovered
only on the strength of a long acquaintance.
Do not pay her the ill compliment of
imagining she will fail to ' write me down
an ass.' "

Adelaide smiled approvingly. " Very

neatly retorted, and I hope the nettles will
suit you."

'' Come, now, that is almost as bad, Miss
Elmore. I shall be afraid to admit that I
do like them, if "

*'No, no. Let us hope a man will have
the courage to be sincere, however stupid he
may be. We don't expect a woman to have
courage, but we can't allow a man to be
Without it."

'' Then I promise you the utmost sincerity
in future. AVill you take my word ? "

Certainly ; if you weill accept mine on
the same conditions. But it's to be only
when we are called upon, remember."

Exactly ; that's understood. I wonder
how it will sound ? "

"Are you so unaccustomed to hear truth?"

I think we all must be. If we were not
habitually bound to use language to disguise
our thoughts, it would be a very troublesome,
not to say a very quarrelsome, time
of it."

No doubt, especially if one's circle of
acquaintance were a large one."

No ; plain speaking can only be resorted
to between those who are very dear to each
other — don't look at me with such wonderment
! I was goinnr to add —or between
whom there is the strongest interest to
understand one another."

I am afraid we don't come within the
limits. Truth must be abandoned between
us — we shall never have a chance of
proving our talents for quarrelling."

"You have passed your word, Miss
Elmore ; don't draw back ! The prospect of
a quarrel is so exhilarating that I cart
abandon it."

Again she smiled. "If you are as vigorous
in anger as you are now, I am afraid I
should run away."

I could soon overtake you. Now,
seriously. Miss Elmore, it is not all people
from whom one could ask such a question ;
but for reasons I can fully justify — strong

and sufficient reasons — I am going to make
the first demand on the ground of our compact
at once. Tell me, without reserve,
what you think of me ? "

Xow, he expected a playful retort, but,
to his surprise, adelaide's face fell into that
solemn calm that made her look like — what
he had thought her at first — a beautiful
statue. They had been walking very slowly,
but now they stood still. Her eyes went
into the distance behind him as she answered
—

Honestly, then, I think you are a very
good man, although you are somewhat misled.
That is the first proposition. I don't
assume that I am right ; I only think so."

To say that Bathurst received this intimation
in a spirit of indifference would be
untrue. All possibility of jest was denied,
and he was more interested than he himself
knew.

At this inopportune moment O'Buncous
thrust his portly person upon them, little

caring what interruption he might prove.
He gave a significant look at Bathurst.

If you don't find another donkey in
the way "

You had better take yourself away, and
get yourself dried."

*' I must leave the menagerie at present
to take care of itself," observed Adelaide.
And then she bade the colonel good
morning, bowed coldly to O'Buncous, and
went away.

I hope I haven't spoilt sport ? " O'Bun-
cous continued, seeing a somewhat blank
look settle upon his friend's face.

"Oh, humbug ! As I said before, these
ladies require delicate handling ; they don't
understand your boisterous jokes."

Oh, damn it ! Come, now, I never
expected to be told I didn't understand
women, at my time of — with my experience.
They all like to be made much of; they all
go in for being admired. The only thing
is, they've got a different way of doing it.

Bless your soul ! [ know 'em — know all
their ways. You've had very little to do
with females, Bathurst."

The major's tone was so earnestly emphatic
at this point, that even against his
will Bathurst felt some amusement. He
laughed. " You really do take a liberty
upon our old acquaintance."

"Ah, that's right! Richard's himself
again. I say," said O'Buncous, in a confidential
whisper, " I went and looked over
that one that paints this morning, and you
should have seen how she stared at me.
By the Lord ! there's something wrong with
her."

By the Lord ! there's something: wrong:
with you, O'Buncous."

You're getting confoundedly irritable.
Why shouldn't the girl have anything wrong
with her ? I shouldn't wonder if it was the
other one, now."

In a cooler moment Bathurst would have
accepted the vague remark with a smile.

As it was, lie was aware that lie did feel
irritated, and he could not quite account for
the unusual sensation.

'^ Be sensible, O'Buncous, and go home
and get dry," said he, striding away.

It was a charming Arcadian scene which
met his eye as he came up the wooded slope
and reached the lawn. There, under the
shadow of his mother's favourite tree, with
a sunset such as, in spite of all detraction,
is still to be found in England by those who
have eyes, a sunset that for delicacy and
variety of tint would have satisfied Turner
himself, with this gorgeous background as a
setting, was a group as lovely as the sunset
itself.

'' Beauty certainly does augment beauty,"
he thought. " I know how fine that boy's
profile is, but it comes out fresher and
stronger in these surroundings. I flatter
myself I could distinguish beauty among
the depths of ugliness, but I will not say
the delicacy of that girl's form could not

be ruined by grotesque exaggeration of what
is called fashion, or that those bright tints
of hair and complexion could not be lost
in the squalor of poverty. Ah, this world !
And alas for those who would improve
it I "

What do you think of him now ? "
asked Eeilly, in the cheerful tone that indicates
complete satisfaction.

I want him on his legs," was the reply.

I don't," was Eeilly 's laconic answer.

Bathurst looked up. Their eyes met, and
there was a meaning to be read by each.
Bathurst was puzzled about Reilly; but
Reilly was not puzzled about Bathurst.

As sure as I'm living," thought the
colonel, '' that fellow's in love with Adelaide."


*'He's about — nearly as far gone as to
think of nothing else," thought Eeilly ; and
then he turned his eyes to where Bathurst
had joined Vivian and Kate. "And
that young fellow is in a worse case still,

VOL. I. 13

because the youthful fire has not been taken
out of him."

Oh ! there goes poor Major O'Buncous,
damp and disappointed," said Kate. She
came over to Reilly with her playful grace,
saying, " Colonel Bathurst tells us he has
been invited to dinner. I don't believe it.
But still, if my sister has such a right, I
shan't be backward in exercising mine ;
therefore. Doctor Eeilly, will you oblige me ?
Is that what they say in invitations ? "

May I request the pleasure," prompted
Reilly.

Oh ! request the pleasure, then, of your
society at dinner ? "

That's asking me to take you in. No.
Your company at dinner And then you
delicately veil the meaning."

"And do you require the meaning to be
delicately veiled when you are requested asa
pleasure ? "

You are too subtle for me," he said,
gravely.

She shook lier head very seriously, and
raised her eyes to his. The denial was
absolute.

'' You can't well veil the meaning of
those orbs," he said. '' You are more clever
at half-meanings than I am."

Is it because whole meanings are too
big for me ? What's the answer ? "

Doctor Eeilly will have much pleasure
in accepting Miss Kate Elmore's inaccurate
invitation, if she will first obtain her mother's
permission."

Her rippling laugh rang out in the still
soft air.

Oh ! you will never make me believe
such a reply as that is conventional. I
decline such an inaccurate answer. Do say
you will come ; you know it would really
be great fun, because we never have anybody
but Aunt Flora, and she comes once
in a century."

You must be very intimate with her,"
said Reilly, briefly.

I will never ask you to dinner again,
Doctor Reilly. You are not sufficiently
grateful ; you are evidently not aware of
the condescension on my part."

Don't be bashful, Reilly," struck in
Bathurst, who had heard what was oroino^
on ; " there will be nettles for two. Miss
Kate will do without her share."

Indeed, you are not restricted to nettles,"
said Kate. " Adelaide does treat us to the
strangest dishes, but she always takes care
to have a reserve in case of failure. You
will be sure to have enough to eat."

Then I will support you, colonel ; the
last clause decides it. — Now, Seymour, I'm
going to wheel you in."

Bathurst had been watching his nephew's
face with pleasure, noting the natural hue
of returning health, and he had observed
how those fine blue eyes his mother was so
proud of followed this girl's every movement.
Certainly there was no wonder at
that, for he was a beauty-lover, as his uncle

well knew, and the equal of either of these
pfiiis was uot often met. The distinctive
simplicity of their dress, too, made their
easy movements and perfect forms the more
conspicuous.

"Then I shan't see you again. Miss
Kate ? "

Vivian lingered over that last word ; it
was the first time he had used it.

I hope so, Fm sure, if Doctor Reilly
allows you out again. AVe have a garden
party every day now."

There was no covert meaning* in the

o

remark. Vivian put out his hand, and
Eeilly watched her with some interest.
She advanced slowly, and he noticed that
her eyelids fell. Her voice was so low that
he could not hear the words she uttered ;
and Vivian did not speak, but he never
took his eyes from her face.

*' Now this is progressing beyond my
ken," thought Reilly. He did not fail to
read the sion and token of these small

actions. 'rit is bj the straw we find the
current," he murmured.

In another half-hour Bathurst and Reilly
walked into the drawing-room together.
Mrs. Elmore received them with her usual
quiet grace.

She would do that if she were vexed
beyond measure," thought Eeilly.

Adelaide tells me you have really promised
to dine with us. I am sorry to
hear Major O'Buncous met with an accident,
or, being your guest, 1 should certainly
have invited him. But he is gone."

Do not mention that ; he and I can
dispense with formalities, being such very
'old friends.' He will take care of himself,
I know."

I have been on the point of asking you
to join us several times, Doctor Reilly. I
thought the change might be agreeable.
But I — you know my reasons — am deterred
from natural action, and now this wild girl
of mine has taken the matter out of my

hands. How should you proceed to put the
curb on that child ? "

I shouldn't trj to do it," said Reilly,
quietly.

x4.nd after that they went to dinner.

CHAPTER Tithe

FIRST GUESTS AT THE GLADE.

The lights were set up, although the windows
still remained open, and the soft tints of the
evening sky were still visible. The three
girls were already in the room when the
colonel entered, with Mrs. Elmore on his
arm.

It is very unorthodox all this," thought
Reilly, as he strayed in after them, and
found, on taking the seat allotted to him,
that he was seated next to the very girl he
wanted to observe — she who was so remarkably
quiet and calm and distant ; who wore
her long fair hair in a thick plait, ending
in a tuft like Mary Schemer's '' Marguerite ; "
who wore white still, although she had

changed her dress. It was that creamy tint
that accords so well with a fair, clear complexion.


Was she self-involved ? or was she merely
nervously timid before strangers ? Eeilly
knew that a difference of temperament only
would account for singular mental development
under such training as she had had,
and he was deeply interested in the matter
upon purely scientific grounds. She did not
appear to lack ease ; for the firm, well-made
hand so near him moved with no hurried,
uneven action. The face was slightly, ever
so slightly, averted. Altogether she impressed
him with the idea that she wished
to remain silent.

A general conversation, naturally commonplace
at first, soon became Cjuite sparkling.
Still Eeilly's companion was silent, apparently
absent. One glance at that brow and
chin should be sufficient to inform him that
there was no lack of intellect in this strange
girl ; still her behaviour was peculiar.

He ventured on a remark very quietly ;
he almost feared to startle her. " I do not
see you in the garden often, except in the
early morning."

*' I do not go there noiv,'' she said, in a
voice that was soft and deep and perfectly
unconstrained.

Why not now ? " he asked, gently.

It was impossible to speak to this girl as
one would to Kate, who now sat opposite
him, her little proud head poised so gracefully,
the rich brown hair coiled around it so
carelessly with ringlets that would get loose
and stray about on the white skin in quite a
distracting manner. Her face was all aglow
now. How intensely living she was ! and
this mi was an animated icicle.

'' And why not now ? " he repeated. *' I
hope we don't drive you away *? "

You do," she said quietly, with perfect
composure ; and she did not turn her eyes
towards him.

1 shall ask you to taste this wine, colonel,"

said Mrs. Elmore, " because I am sure you
will appreciate it. We women cannot, sou
know."

And when I tell you," interpolated Kate,
'* that I found mamma all over cobwebs
foraging out this very bottle for you, you
will appreciate it still more highly."

You are always right, Miss Kate. It is
superfluous for any one to make a remark
when you are present."

It made the mother's heart ache to see
how joyfully her child accepted this light
talk, the sparkle of conversation to which
she was unaccustomed ; the light of congenial
society suited her so well. She recognized
with pain how eminently fit these
children of hers were to take their place in
the world from which she withheld them,
and Reilly s words, which had weight with
her, were remembered now. She glanced in
his direction and noted at the moment how
those deep, keen eyes of his were taking
especial observation of Mary.

All I " tliouirlit she, with a siofh which
was not all of content, " she is safe."

I deeply regret that it should be so,"
Eeilly said, in a well-simulated tone of
pained reserve.

This shot told. There was a minute's
pause, and Mary spoke again. " Perhaps I
ought not to have said that ; it was certainly
impolite. I am sorry I said it to you, because
you are not to blame, and you have had all
the trouble."

He was getting at something now. " I
am not sure that any one has been to blame.
Both Colonel Bathurst and his nephew would,
I am sure, bitterly regret being the cause of
any inconvenience to either of your family."

You will not tell them what 1 said."

They were low, decisive words, not used
as a request, but simply asserted.

After this move he extracted only monosyllables.
In his heart he was pitying her.
A fine woman — in all probability of equally
grand potentialities — completely lost." She,

he knew, avouch never desire to break away
for herself a mono strangers, as Adelaide
would do : nor would she ever run counter
to the charge set over her, and turn rebellious
at a moment and repent the next, as Kate
might do. She was a fixed star ; Kate was
a comet.

It was splendid wine ; but Bathurst refused
to drink it unless the ladies would condescend
to join him. Kate protested that she would
drink as much as he liked. " Sometimes we
don't see wine in this house for weeks, and
when I am cpiite flat "

''Oh, oh! I refuse to listen," exclaimed
Reilly. "You cannot pervert human nature
to such an extent."

"He knows — he knows," said Bathurst,
conclusively.

The next time 1 am flat you shall call
the doctor, mamma, to witness an unique cui-e
of coma. I hope you'll administer ycpiem,"
she said, holding up her glass, and letting
her dazzling eyes rest upon him.

Ah, my lady ! " thought ho, " you are
meek as a mouse when you are with someone
I know."

It was true. Her natural buoyancy sank
to zero when she was with Vivian, but
she regained her impertinence magically
Ashen a third person came upon the scene.

The young doctor was a close observer.
Finding Mary resolutely still, he let her
alone. But after the little party broke up,
he managed to secure Mrs. Elmore in a
quiet corner, when they had gone into the
drawing-room and the rest were occupied.

'excuse me," he said, "but is your
second daughter reserved and self-involved
among her own family ? " The question was
carelessly asked, just as one might speak of
any casual subject.

She started, and gave a rapid searching
enhance at his face to see if the words were
careless. "Ye — es. That is — from contrast.
Adelaide is extremely energetic ; Kate most
vivacious ; " Mary is — ," she halted, and

then went on hurriedly — " I'm sure it is the
contrast ! What have you observed in her ? "

What I have said," was the quiet reply.
I did not wish to alarm you."

'' I know that," she said ; " but everything
alarms me."

'*Do you ever find her absent or preoccupied
? " he asked, beginning to feel
strongly interested from these evident sons
of discomfiture, and hoping he had found
a clue.

Yes, yes," she answered in a low, agitated
voice. "That is easily accounted for — she
is very studious, she is naturally wrapt in
something which is to her of an absorbing-interest.
I've had little or no trouble in
finding occupation for her."

Here the poor lady looked at Eeilly, so
impatient for a reply, that he almost succumbed.
He saved himself, however, and
said, "Hem," gravely, while he contemplated
the pattern of the carpet with some
concern.

Doctor Eeilly, you agitate me painfully !
Speak out. Come into the verandah with
me ; it is not cold."

These evenings are damp, Mrs. Elmore.
You must not venture now."

It was cruel work ; he acknowledged
that ; but was he not justified ? What was
wrong here he must unearth. Perhaps by
working in the dark he might more readily
make the discovery than by waiting for
the light.

The lady looked disappointed — he repented.
Still he had not wilfully misled
her. Was he not working in the dark ?

Forgive me," he said, " if I have aroused
any — if I have disquieted you. But I really
have nothing to speak out — yet — " he added,
hesitating.

He looked at Mary as he spoke ; he had a
full view of her back hair, the head being
bent over the book she held. She was
totally unlike any woman he had ever seen,
and had no doubt from that very cause
attracted his strong interest.

"A very well grown girl," he observed,
reflectively.

"Yes," sighed the mother. "She has
never had a day's illness in her life."

"That is more to your credit than hers,"
he said, smiling. " I think you said she
was studious ? What does she study ? "

Really I — you confuse me — for I have,
Heaven knows, the strongest desire to answer
you truthfully. Mary has such a pile of
books into which none but herself ever looks
that I can scarcely reply to your question.
I know she has taken the oddest interest in
insects and such things. Indeed, she will
keep them sometimes, and touch them, and
speak to them in quite an unnatural way —
almost as though they had reason. Kate
declares they understand her ; but she never
seems to care what is said "

Here the speaker broke off abruptly, but
the doctor maintained his attitude of an
attentive listener.

I have never had any trouble with her,

VOL. I. 14

she has always been simply perfect — more
self-controlled, more serenely collected than
any one I have ever seen. I never saw Mary
really excited. I admit that I do not
understand her temperament."

That is not always easy, even under the
closest relations."

Now, Kate is so different "

"Nothing could make her unnatural,"
interpolated Reilly, emphatically.

And just as he had quietly resolved on
another attempt to engage Mary in conversation,
he saw her take the first opportunity
of quitting the room.

CHAPTER XIII.

PROFESSIONAL INTEREST.

Reilly threw open the window and inhaled
a honos draught of fresh, sweet air.

'' How exquisite is the odour of jessamine
! " he said. " According to my notions,
now, this would be ' a spot to live and
die in.' "

Give me a lift over there, that's a good
fellow ; I'm just as fond of the air and
scenery as you are I "

I dare say, my dear boy ! It's surprising
how affectionate we can be when we
want anything. How poor are they that
have not patience ! Cultivate the habit of
mind ; patience is most useful in adversity."

Oh, come, I didn't bargain for a sermon."

Be civil, please ! Let a man pursue his
natural inclinations."

Certainly. But if one man, why not
another ? "

Ah, there you open out a line of argument
that moral philosophy has "

You shan't do it, Reilly ! My faculties
are not equal to physiological discussions
this morning. T won't be betrayed. I want
light and air."

Sweetness and light ! Yes. ' Light and
leading.' * Light and Love.' How fascinating
alliterations are ! Oh, you shall not
have your intellect strained this morning ;
I'll send round O'Buncous to cheer you
up."

Well, if you want to set up inflammation
in the joint you're so particular about,
}'ou will succeed. But you're not such a
l)rute. By-the-bye, why is that old ass
allowed to come here ? "

Well, you see he would be so much
alone at Netherbyby. Mrs. Elmore knows he

is Bathurst's guest, and lias tact enough to
take that into account."

'^ Well, am I ever orinoco that window
that is the question ? "

'' I know it is ! It is my place to know
every foible of my patient. You are very
fortunate in ha^dngr a man of generous and
sympathetic mind to look after you ! "

Oh yes, of course. I say, Eeilly,
shouldn't you like to know something more
about these ladies, eh ? Don't you often
wonder at their strange ways ? — and what
they think about us ? "

Reilly nodded significantly.

My uncle seems to have made himself
very intimate. But then his gentle manliness
must be very attractive to women -
don't you think so ? I've often wondered
why he has not been seized by some strong-minded
member of the fair sex."

Then he would revolt ! Violence would
never win him. When a woman marries a
man, you may be sure the man is a fool."

You ought to write a book of aphorisms.
I don't believe a man ever was married
against his inclination."

My dear fellow, the thing's as common
as bread and butter. Thousands of men
are not only married, but kept in a state of
servitude ever after. Many quite enjoy it.
It's anything but the worst state of life,
especially for a man without much force of
character. When a woman, you know, assumes
the — ahem! — the masculine garments,
she usually has the right to wear them."

"But it seems to go against natural
laws."

'' Natural laws are, perhaps, not so well
known on some points as others. 'Tis more
poetic when the oak supports the ivy, but
you know the ivy will support a ruin sometimes.
Now I'm going for my constitutional."
And the doctor wheeled the couch
close to the window and arranged his patient's
wrap with quite womanly tenderness.

Thanks ; what a real good fellow you

are ! But no practical joking, now — you
were not going to send the major ? "

Reilly laughed aloud. " I had clean forgotten
him ! Well, I don't understand such
a strong animus '"

I know he's a harmless old idiot "

'' And that he has the most awkward
knack of getting in the way of any man in
Norland. Good mornings."

The doctor, walking rapidly, had scarcely
started ere he met O'Buncous.

Hi ! stop a minute ! " he exclaimed. '' Are
you galloping for a wager ? "

This encounter, Reilly felt, was well deserved.
He knew it was hopeless to evade
the major, but it would be very easy to walk
him out of breath.

Well, how are you getting on, eh ? I
wish I was in your place. You don't know
how to take advantage of your opportunities."


I don't know what you would do ; I do
as I like."

Then Eeillj's thoughts wandered. He
managed to enjoy the beauty of the morning,
and console himself with his own
thoughts, although now and then there was,
of course, bound to be an interruption, as,
for instance, when his companion insisted on
an opinion. It was true that any reply
would usually satisfy him ; still it was possible
occasionally to make a mistake.

It's singular, very, that it should have
been in this neighbourhood, where, as a mere
boy, I met my first love, Eeilly. I don't
know whether I ever divulged the circumstance
— some things are almost too sacred to
bear the light of day. Well, we met, and
loved at sight — two young romantic souls.
It reminds me of Don Juan and Haidee, now
I come to think of it. But her mother!
Great heaven ! to think such a sweet creature
should be bound by the relationship."

Oh ! we must all have a mother," expostulated
Reilly. " And remember, there can
only be one."

Don't jest ! my memory is too keen to
bear it. I used to watch her window night
after night. I was as hoarse as a raven
throno^h it. She — sweet anselm ! — used to
peep through the blinds at me in the morning
like a bird from its nest. eye carried
on the courting from the window ; that hag
of a mother locked her up, bless you ! "

'there she was wise," muttered Eeilly.

"" What did you say ? Yes. Indeed it
was a poem. We commenced throwing notes
at each other directly we woke, and when
either of us missed, the old woman picked
them up and burnt them. Language cannot
describe my hatred to that woman — although
she was a female. It almost became a
matter of siege in the end, for we were all
starving. ' If you can only hold out for
another day,' wrote my high-spirited seraph,
'mother will have to go out for food.' I'd
the making of a hero in me in those days,
and bore up well. But I was young and —
well, as far as that goes, hunger would tell

upon me now. I remember the cheese a
countryman passing in his cart sold me. I
hardly think I have digested it to this day."

"Then you never will, O'Buncous," said
Reilly, solemnly.

When at last the old woman came out
she had my charmer with her, and there,
before her — in the coarsest possible way —
she asked me my intentions."

I told her my position plainly — I had
nothing ! But I had every reason to expect
an increase. I'll tell you what I had done,
I had ventured my all in the Associated
British Johanisberg Manufacturing Company.
Ah ! that was a great thing, a tremendous
undertaking 1 The object was to
supply the public with that princely beverage
at a lower price than even Gladstone's claret.
But it didn't do. Good lord ! if it had, I
should have been a Croesus."

Here O'Buncous lost himself in the haze
of past recollections of blighted hopes, and
Eeilly appreciated the silence.

Too soon, however, O'Buncous broke outwith
another erotic revelation. When there
was a pause in the monologue, Eeilly interpolated
a s>Tiipathetie " Ah ! "

He had walked so far for duty's sake, and
now, for duty's sake, it was time to return to
his patient. And if — of course the "if" was
very doubtful — if he should see a fold of that
white dress in any remote part of the garden,
it would be comparatively easy to address
the wearer now they had once or twice
exchanged words. Certainly he had only
received monosyllabic replies, given with
abrupt brevity. But this harshness was
surely all false. Her gentle movements, her
fair, beautiful face, gave quite the lie to
harshness of any kind. Unbidden, the
shadow of this singular young creature had
arisen and followed his footsteps; and the
cause being so palpable for this interest in a
mere stranger, that there was no occasion to
account for it.

When they came in sight of that prison-like

gate his heart bounded — so strong is
professional interest sometimes. He would
have to dispose of O'Buncous, who was
saying—

"Would you believe it, now, that riding
five years afterwards down that very lane,
I met her accidentally — greeting her, of
course, as a gentleman would a lady he had
once known —-with no allusion to the past
either by word or action. She wouldn't
speak to me ! After such passages as those
I have related, she treated me as a stranger."

O'Buncous shrugged his shoulders and
extended his hands in hopeless recognition
of the enigma.

I think you ought to be congratulated,"
observed Reilly, absently, having no recollection
of the '' passages " alluded to.

Yes. No doubt it was a fortunate
escape. She was not my social equal ; her
ancestry was most remote."

The remoter the better," said Reilly,
didactically.

Ha, ha ! I don't see that. Hers was so
remote that you couldn't see it at all ! "

That's what I should call obscure. Goodbye,
major. Tell Bathurst the chicken broth
was delicious. His cook couldn't equal it."

And the next moment he was inside the
Glade gate, and the major without, looking
blank and dismal

Precious airs that fellow gives himself''
he muttered. "I wonder if any of them
remember that it was my design that
brought about this pleasant intimacy ? I'm
not allowed any freedom, except when
Bathurst chooses to take me in. It's all
very fine to say that Seymour is all their
business. They always find something else
to do when I am there to see."

Eeilly had entirely forgotten him in the
search for a glimpse of a dress he would
know by the mere flash across his vision.

And could any other pair of shoulders,"
he asked himself, " carry a twisted wrap so
becomingly ? It is a pity that so fine a

girl should be nurtured and trained into
eccentricity — a thousand pities that she
should be doomed to an unnatural life of
strange restriction."

CHAPTER XIV

STILL THAT " DREAM."

Violin was beginning to look forward to
those short broken talks through the endow.
Kate would always come and speak to him,
when she came out, and, although she might
only stay for ^yq minutes, he found enough
delight to dwell upon for another day.
Sometimes she would return before going in,
and there would be another rambling talk.

This morning he was very fortunate. He
met her with an eager smile.

I was longing for you to come ! Did
you know, I wonder ? No, you could not
possibly — never mind."

After that disjointed speech he paused,
with eyes alight on hers.

Kate silently approached, as it appeared,
with a reluctant movement.

*' Good morning ! " he said, extending his
hand ; and because he did so she was compelled
to come much nearer to the window,
and even lean over the sill, that he might
touch her hand.

Do you think my jailor will let me out
to-day ? "

It was so long before she answered that
he thought she did not hear. But he was
quite content.

Can't you bribe him ? " she asked shyly,
not looking up.

"11 No. You might, now. Would you
do as much for me ? "

Would I ? " she repeated, absently.

Would you ? " he reiterated, in low
pleading tones.

It did not appear at all ridiculous to these
two that they were talking so. It was all
the same to them what they talked about.
The words were half meaningless, or else

charged with more meaning than a tongue
could utter. Their eyes exchanged confidences
better than their lips ; their own
beauty appealed to their youthful passionate
senses stronger than any language could.

Will you sing that song again to-day ?
Tm always begging, am I not ? But will
you ?

Which is it ? you like so many."

That's true. I think I always like the
last best. But I really mean that song of
Storage's ; the refrain is so exquisitely
pathetic. Do you feel the pathos of music
while you sing, as much as I who listen ? "

How can I tell ? But I don't understand
any one not feeling the power of music."

'nor I. Yet some people are dead to it.
What amazes me is that you should sing as
you do, and yet you have not heard — you
tell me you have never heard — any great
singer."

No," she said, simply. " How could 1 ?
Haven't I told you that we never go aiiy-

nol. I. 15

where ? Sometimes when I am readiiio:
descriptions of plays and concerts, I feel as
though I would give up all the years of life
before me, if I could hear and see some of
those things that great artists can do."

The sympathy in his face was very strong
just then, but he did not know what to say.
It seemed to him an abominable cruelty that
such a girl as this, who was literally all soul,
whose voice thrilled with emotion, whose
very finger-tips talked when she spoke,
should be shut out from the greatest pleasure
the artistic temperament can know.

They were both silent for a little while ;
then, with a half-checked sigh, she said —

Would you believe — I wonder why it is
now — that I invariably feel as though I
want to sing to somebody, far somebody ?
It is not because I want praise, but I like to
give away some of the pleasure I feel."

That is wholly and purely natural, I am
sure. Does any one else in your family so
highly appreciate music ? "

'' They are all fond of it. But mamma, oh 1
she is ecstatic ; I have seen her break down,
and sob bitterly, and go away from the
room, when I am sinoinor. I never felt
quite so bad as that."

'' I have seen stroud' men affected bv
music almost to that extent. You have no
idea of the effect of fine orchestral music,
leading up to a climax, by the grandest
instrument known — the human voice."

Tell me what it is like. It seems to me
that numbers of people together must intensify'
one's emotion. I am certain if I
saw many people affected, and I did not
know why, I should be touched myself"

'' I am sure you would. But even amono-
the most unsympathetic people that will
occur. For instance, you can always raise
plenty of enthusiasm in a mob. I don't
say it's real. There's a very strange thing
about that. It is more difficult to raise
the enthusiasm of one person on the wrongs
and sufferings of thousands than it is to

raise the enthusiasm of thousands for one

man."

Isn't that because we can better identify
ourselves with the one man's feeling ? "
asked Kate, timidly. '' You can't follow the
sensations of a multitude."

I think you are right ; and that directly
we have to deal with multitudes, man loses
his individuality ; it is merged in the
leader."

Then how great a man a leader ought
to be ! "

So interested were they that they had not
observed Adelaide and Bathurst strolling up.

Kate started as her sister touched her.

Why, are you settling affairs of State ? "
asked Adelaide, laughing.

And why not ? " exclaimed Kate gaily,
instantly regaining her courage.

I'm sure no one can answer that
question," said Vivian.

Because there is no reason against it !
It is not more remarkable that I should

have my ambition than you yours, Dell.
She is getting up a cookery book, colonel.
I got at her diary. This is a specimen —
it is headed, ' An Economical Dish ' — Take
a spoonful of cayenne pepper, a pint of port,
and a handful of nettles "

Kate ! "

I forget the rest. But the dish turns
out to be perfection, as the authoress remarks
in a foot-note, where she says, ' It had the
most extraordinary effect upon Colonel
Bathurst, of the 25th Life Guards.' "

There's no such regiment, Miss Kate."

Although he highly approved of it "

*' Kate, your jests are not "within the
limits of becoming mirth.' You had better
go in. I hope she doesn't talk such random
nonsense to you, Mr. Seymour ? "

No, no," said Vivian, quickly. " She
talks art and politics to me ; I talk random
nonsense to her."

"I cannot stay to hear this! I'll say
good morning to you all."

And then the two ladies left them.

'' What a bright spirit that girl has ! "
said Bathurst. *' She is all fire — all life.
Confound it, here comes O'Buncous ! I'm
sure 'tis he. I've scarcely had a word with
you this morning — but there, I see how well
you're getting on. Good-bye, good-bye."

He was greatly annoyed at the persistence
of O'Buncous, for he felt that he must
himself be responsible for his conduct, upon
which he himself was beginning to have
doubts. He felt instinctively it would
destroy all intimacy at one blow, if he
ventured on the slightest familiarity with
either of these ladies. He hurried to the
orate before O'Buncous was admitted, and
joined him.

I'm deucedly sorry to leave you so much
to your own resources ; but of course you
see that by the laws of kindred and so on
I am compelled to show all possible attention
to my neph "

*' Oh, don't, Bathurst I Is it your nephew

you go promenading about with ? He
can't use his legs — I'll warrant he uses his
eyes. And I say, old fellow, is it your
nephew who teaches you to cook your own
goose ? Is it, eh ? "

Upon my soul, O'Buncous, you re
positively vulgar ! "

CHAPTER XY.

SCIENCE AND ART.

Anxious to arrive at some tangible idea
concerning this most interesting mother and
her still more interesting daughters, Reilly
took occasion to meet Mary as often as
possible, and, taking advantage of Mrs.
Elmore's permission, always supplemented
his greeting by a few commonplace remarks.
He had, however, met with the most signal
disappointment. Notwithstanding his care
and tact, she apparently regarded him with
suspicion. This phase he at first accepted
as timidity, expecting that if he managed
to present himself frequently, she would
become accustomed to seeing him, and be
tempted into a conversation.

Soon, however, he was bound to abandon
the notion that timidity had anything todo
with her action, for on closer observation
he discovered no trace of that girHsh trait.
Sometimes her answers were curt to the
verge of impoliteness ; occasionally they
were confusingly vague, either purely unmeaning,
or charged with an equivocal
sense which he had certainly found mystifying.


After a dozen meetings or more, he had
not gained one steed ; her remarkable taciturnity
and the distant iciness of her manner
still repelled the smallest advance.

This morning he went out to meet her,
more earnest than ever in his interest, but
feelings a strange rashness born of his disappointment.


He did not saunter to the spot whither
the undulating lines of the soft cloth chess
attracted him. Neither pausing to make
their meeting accidental, nor to prepare
an attack, the doctor walked on with sharp

decisive steps, hot with, of course, professional
fire.

Good morning."

Now, what was she doing ? Reading, or
drawing ? The head was bent over the
folio she held, and there was no response.

Eeilly stood before her with extended
hand, looking like a gentleman, and a fine
man too, his usually grave face lighted by
that pleasant smile which made him almost
if not quite handsome, and made his keen
eyes more tender and less searching.

Mary looked up ; the head was raised
far enough now, too far to please him, and
there was no answering smile, not the
feeblest attempt at one. She did condescend
to put out her hand. He' had never
touched it before. It was cold and rigid,
as her beautiful fair face. He was prepared
to commence the conversation and to keep
it up. What chance, indeed, had he if he
did not ?

"What glorious weather it is still ! I've

been taking my four-mile constitutional,
but I'm not in the least surprised that you
ladies should prefer these delightful grounds.
You can get a good half-mile by the river
path, can't you ? "

He did pause, and because he paused
there was a slight response, although he
really could not decide whether it was a
negative or an affirmative.

The slopes are so effective here, and
the oaks so very fine. Would you mind
my looking at your sketch ? "

Again he paused for a reply. She, too,
paused. She did not look at him ; she was
apparently pre-occupied.

Eeilly came a step nearer, and repeated
the Question, and there was just a tender
shade of appeal in his voice.

There can be no possible pleasure in
examining the work of a mere amateur,"
she said, with cold constraint.

The mere amateur, my dear Miss
Elmore, hasn't, as a rule, the vaguest idea as

to his talent ; therefore please don't attempt
to judge what effect your work might have
on me."

'' Are you, then, a competent critic ? "

The words were as distant as one might
address to a person about to be engaged in
one's service.

Reilly eagerly disclaimed. " I have very
little knowledge of art," he said.

Then it is utterly useless my showing
you the sketch," she answered, with firm
decision.

This was a dash of very cold water, but
the doctor threw it off.

If I were the best art-critic in England,
I would not dare to criticise your picture,"
he said, warmly. " I did not imply that by
Seeing it I could by any means benefit you ;
I selfishly sought my own pleasure, and I
am rightly rewarded."

Then there was silence.

'rare you sure you sought your own
pleasure ? " she asked slowly, giving a glance

from under the half-closed eyelids. She
could easily do it, the head was held so his.

Eeillj felt that he was getting on. He
evaded the direct question by another.

Do you think people are tong in seeking
their own pleasure, Miss Elmore ? "

Mary raised her calm, inscrutable eyes
full upon his. They seemed to magnetize
him in a moment. He recognized the power
and understood it. He could have looked
at her for an hour in that way.

I don't know that people are ' wrong ' in
anything," she said, mechanically.

*' Perhaps you do not ' know ' ; but I said
do you think ? ' "

A long pause, during which her eyes
travelled far away from him.

"I do not tliia]: about what I do not
know" she answered deliberately at last.

"Then — I am much interested — excuse me
if I ask if you have anything to tliinh about."

'' No. My mind is a sort of playground
for thought."

Very good. Then here we have a basis
on which to start. You must believe you
know something."

A faint well-suppressed smile, that broke
like a gleam of sunshine from a cloud, transformed
her fair statuesque features into warm
life. But before he could say it was there,
it was gone.

I hnoio that you are taking much
unnecessary trouble over me," she said,
innocently.

Why ' unnecessary ' ? "

Is not all unavailing effort ' unnecessary
' ? I am acting on the defensive."

Why should you ? I am not a foe."

"You are not a friend."

*' I am, indeed."

That is nonsense. You cannot care forme
in such a way. But, be your intents
wicked or charitable, it would be the same
to me."

You would still act on the defensive ?
That is a piece of wisdom gained only after

years of knowledge of a bitter and incomprehensible
world. You must know something
more than the certainty of my failure.
I shall get at it presently."

You will not. I could mislead you into
any belief," she said, rather wearily. " Such,
however, is not my intention ; it is too much
trouble. I came out to read. Perhaps you
will allow me to say good morning."

Reilly moved aside and raised his hat
without a word. With a slight bow she
passed on. Then, suddenly turning back, she
said —

'• I hope I have not been unkind — I
am only sincere. I did not wish to offend
you ; but, you see, I am accustomed to be
alone."

Alone with a book is not alone. I must
disagree with you on that word. It is rarely
I prefer any society to my books ; but we
can't learn all we ^\'ant from them. May I
ask, before I say 'good morning,' what is
your favourite study ? "

A curious half-amused look flitted across
her face, and she looked at him in that still,
strange way.

Let me see — my favourite study certainly
is mythology. I find it embraces so
many subjects and colours such a vast area
of human thought, that it is almost as
illimitable as space itself."

The inscrutable expression deepened in
those pure grey eyes ; it was half earnest,
half reflective, vaguely full of meaning.

Before Eeilly recovered from the effect of
that full gaze, she was gone.

She's a deucedly unnatural young
woman ! But, whatever that girl may be,
she is not a fool."

He walked back dreamily to Sejmiour's
room, feeling to some extent self-satisfied.
He was aware that he had succeeded, and
the knowledge was pleasant. But it had
been very hard work.

When he came into Vivian's room, and
noticed the dreamy happy eyes that met his.

he felt strangely envious all at once, and at
war with himself. " I have not his bewitchment,"
he thought, looking at the beauty of
Vivian's clear-cut face, as it rested on Kate's
crimson cushion.

They were both very silent this morning,
these two men, and for some time not a word
was exchanged. At last Eeilly broke out, as
if he had just awakened from a dream.

I suppose you are anxiously looking out
for your order of release ? "

Vivian started also — from his dream.
Release ! Ah — yes ; you mean my removal.
Don't you give secret it, now, for
great self-denial in not asking for it ? "

Maybe for more than you deserve.
However, I'll admit your patience, under
constraint, to be — abnormal'

Psha ! How keen you are ! It's an
implied compliment to you, if I haven't been
bored nearly to death."

"There's more truth in that than he
knows of," thought Eeilly.

VOL. I. 16

Vivian relapsed into his reverie again.

Don't hurry," he said, presently. " I
could stay here for ever."

And, singularly enough, Reilly did not ask
why.

CHAPTER XVI.

DELUSION.

A GENTLE tap at the door. Vivian looked
surprised ; the doctor did not. Although it
was so early, he knew that it was Mrs.
Elmore, and not the elderly stern-faced
Hannah who attended upon them.

After she had spoken a few words to the
invalid, she turned to Reilly, and said —
May I trespass on your time ? "

It was a halting question, put with such
beseeching eyes.

I am at your service," he answered,
reading her anxiety at a glance.

Then come," she said, quickly leading
the way to her room ; "we shall not be
interrupted here. I have been longing for

the time to pass, that I might be able to get
some conversation with you. Tell me at
once, without fear or reservation, ivhat are
your doubts about Mary ? "

The doctor felt a thrill of satisfaction.
Now he was sure he had the clue.

Give me an opportunity of studying
your daughter, and, my dear madam, I tell
you positively that I will give you an
opinion; but I cannot now."

How can I give opportunity ? She
avoids every one."

For this, however, we cannot blame her ;
she has taken her lessons to heart. I shall
only alarm her by putting myself in her way.
Urge her quietly to be more natural ; weare
not vampires. Tell her you deem it
necessary she should know me, at least.
You have already made an exception in my
favour. You have said, you know, that you
can trust me."

He watched her carefully while she strove
to command her distress.

And so I do," she said, in a low, uneven
voice. " 111 bring her here presently, and
do you join us. I will prepare the way."

Eeilly did not speak, but he pressed her
hand in answer. When he went back to his
room, he was looking so grave that Vivian
noticed it, although he did not speak.

Bathurst almost immediately went out,
and Reilly heard him talking to Adelaide
in the hall.

Now I've paved the way for a pleasant
hour aU round. I shall decoy Kate to the
window, whither she longs to come, but
would not venture without my intercession ;
and then I "

Reilly, have you ever been in love ? "

Seymour's mellifluous voice was even
softer than usual. The question was put ina
careless, languid way, as though it were
the commonest thing in the world to ask.

This is a ruse," thought Reilly ; and he
said cheerily, " Scores of times, my dear
boy ; scores of times."

That's a bit of O'Buncous. I am tired
of him. I am serious."

In that case, you are treading on forbidden
ground."

Then we won't be personal Tell me
what you think about love. In all our
talks we never happened to strike that
subject."

'' All sentimental rubbish, in short. People
like to be deluded, and love is an utter
delusion. It's an outlet for the enthusiasm
of youth. Not a few people are idiots
enough to believe that there's what they calla
fate in it. They will actually press the
stars of heaven into their service to prove
it. There is no limit to the credulity of
man, and love is one of the favourite
methods of extending it."

'^ My dear doctor, you are not deceiving
me?"

My dear fellow, it is evident I can't," was
the laughing retort.

'' When one has talked with a man on so

many subjects, one can make good guess
at the view he is likely to take of another."

I agree with you. Then why refer tome,
if you already know my opinion ? ''

I want you to ratify my belief, and I
want detail."

"Then, on impersonal ground, I will tell
you that, to those spirits who are equal to
the passion in its fullest sense, it forms the
strongest power under heaven. I was not
quite wrong in what I said just now, however.
To many, love means only that which
I then described. It was not invention, it
was not cynicism, but simple fact. A man
told me the other day, and seriously too, that
he was going down to Somerset to choose a
wife. He asked my advice on the subject.
Now, was it any use my telling such a man
to leave marriage alone ? He could not
have understood me. You cannot imagine
a man doing that in cold blood ? "

Vivian smiled a distinct denial.

'nor I. But he was one of your

commonplace, self-satisfied men, who had
neither imagination nor sympathy. To him
it was quite a matter of business, and he
didn't want to make a mistake."

'' What did you tell him ? "

*' I said, * If you must marry by accident,
make it as much like design as possible.
Don't choose a woman for her hair, or her
money, or the shape of her nose. But see,
if you can, that she has a good temper ; and
^f you must judge by a feature, let it be the
mouth ; let that be as near perfection as
possible, and you 11 be right'"

"Well?"

"Next time I saw him he was married,
and he was disappointed. She was obstinate
and hard ; he had no means of affecting her."
You didn't go upon my advice,' I said.
There were only five women in the whole
place with pretty mouths. I proposed to
the whole five, and not one would look at
me'"

Vivian laughed.

My advice was conscientious ; you have
the proof, too, that it was good. These
women were all too clever, and had too
much heart to accept the creature. Psha !
men love their wives to distraction, but can
marry the week after they die."

"You cant make yourself a cynic."

"And I have no desire. A cynic is an
unwholesome creature, and I am for health
and nature. No, I was not cynical. What
I have been trying to show you in a clumsy
way, I could have expressed in a moment
by a certain French maxim I have just
thought of, ' II n'y a Clue d'une sorted'
amour, mais il y en a mille differences
copies.' I believe that O'Buncous truly
thinks that he is an adept in the art of love,
and that we are nowhere."

I can understand a man being in love,
but I can't understand his talking about
it."

Nor I," said Reilly, reflectively, " except
in the abstract."

The young man cast a penetrating glance
at the shrewd doctor ; he appeared buried
in thought.

You never knew a case of love at first
sight, I suppose ? " asked Vivian, laughingly.
'' Can't say I think a sensible man is likely
to believe in it at all."

When he had finished speaking, he began
to shake up the cushions, and was almost
preoccupied by the mere effort to make himself
comfortable. Reilly waited until he
was settled. His expression was impenetrably
professional as he answered.

"Yes, oh yes! many times. Given a
certain temperament, one expects it. Besides,
I have a peculiar faculty for believing
what many rational people profess to
disbelieve."

I don't believe you. You talk to
interest me."

"You are efiviucj me more credit than I
deserve. I am stating a fact. I don't
allow myself even to disbelieve a thing until

I know something about it. The majority
of rational people don't do that. Now, you
have evidently been under the impression
that love at first sight is an absurdity, and
are now beonnninsr to doubt the solemn conviction."


This was sailing too near the wind for
Vivian's tranquillity. He laughed again, a
little uneasily.

Are you going to say you believe in
witchcraft — you, the most rational of
common-sense men ? "

''I believe in a witchcraft that causes
more mischief than any old woman and a
bundle of bitter herbs ever did — I believe
in the witchcraft of a beautiful woman's
eyes."

He would have added '' voice," but feared
to excite suspicions.

If such thing can possibly happen," said
Vivian, argumentatively, " and we will start
on the hypothesis that it does, there must
be some occult sympathies, some deeper

forces in our nature, that we ourselves can
analyze, much less control."

And who doubts that there arc ? " said
Reilly, slowly.

You have studied all these things, you
see ; but to me they are new."

Yivian coloured, paused, and then went
on rapidly, " What I mean to say is — but
language runs away with one "

Very seldom with you," said Reilly,
politely.

I meant to exonerate myself by saying
that I had held an opinion, almost as a point
of honour, that no man, unless willingly,
need ever get beyond self-control, and I did
not wish to subjugate my belief in the
power of will to your theory of blind
tendencies."

Man is a complex animal ; man's mind
is a still more complex thing. You speak
of blind tendencies ; it is those the will has
to control Moral or physical tendencies I
cannot destroy, but I may avert them, and

by degrees weaken them. For example,
a man of ardent imagination and, at the
same time, of indomitable will, may love
to a degree that the poets themselves might
find beyond them to describe. I shan't
attempt it. But this very man, knowing
would injure the woman he loved, would
suffer any calamity rather than succumb to
his passion. Or, putting it another way,
finding her dishonoured, would not hesitate a
second to sacrifice the lower passion to the
higher — mind, I do not say the weaker to
the stronger."

'' But you have taken a very high
standard for your example."

I will take another," said Reilly,
warmly. "Take a young fellow like
yourself "

No, no. Young fellows like myself
are such fools that even you couldn't manage
the contrast. Reilly, what a real good
fellow you are to keep me awake as
you do."

'now you can go to sleep if you like.
I've got an appointment in the drawing-room."


Now' thought Reilly, " he'll chew the
bitter cud of disappointment until he finds
the maid at his window."

CHAPTEE XVII.

THE IMMATERIAL.

It was a keen scientific interest that this
sagacious young doctor took in a peculiar
specimen of womankind. He felt sure the
idea he had conceived, that Mrs. Elmore
was suffering from monomania, was a correct
one, and he was far from being hopeless,
although he certainly was not sanguine on
the case.

I am sure I am justified," he said to
himself — " sure. The mother herself will
thank me if I can bring things right. A
stress of trial, a heavy trouble, may serve
to depress an emotional mind almost to
madness. There's no harm, any way, or my
conscience would kick."

He had, too, come, too, a very sound conclusion
with regard to Vivian, and it had its
weight ; for, though the majority of people
affect to treat " a young man's fancy " very
lightly, Reilly was not the man to treat any
excited condition of the human machinery
lightly. He knew too much about it.
When he entered the room, Mrs. Elmore
treated his coming quite as an ordinary thing.
He could detect the anxiety in her pathetic
eyes, and he could observe the nervousness
betrayed by the slight movements of the
hands.

There were no such observations to be
made on the daughter ; her hands were
perfectly steady, and her voice too, as, with
a mere inclination of the head, she recognized
his presence, and said —

*now, mamma, I think I will go."

No, my dear ; by no means. Doctor
Reilly has no private communication to
make. I feel quite at home with him, you
know. I don't care for you to run away."

So Mary again took up her netting. It
was of strong twine, made with a large
mesh, and was evidently for some orardenino-
purpose. She did not look up, nor speak ;
but she was clearly prepared to stay.

He conversed casually with Mrs. Elmore
while he watched her. " A very steady
baud ! a very fine hand ! strong, too, or I'm
much mistaken'

She was quite pale this morning, and her
slight figure was still enveloped in the plain
white gown she usually wore. Failing the
matchless charms of Kate, the dignity and
style of Adelaide, she possessed an attractive
grace of her own.

"You will, of course, experience a loss,"
said Eeilly, sympathetically. They were
talking of Adelaide. " But you need have
no anxiety. She will not fail in whatever
sphere she is thrown. It is few women of
her ao'e in whom one could have such conc



silence."

I am so glad you appreciate her. It

VOL. I. 17

makes me feel ttiat I have not been wrong
in giving my consent. It is pleasant to
have an opinion one can thoroughly trust
at the back of one's own. I think I will
go and say a few words to Mr. Seymour.
Indeed, I almost regret that he is going so
soon. He has been so patient, and has been
so considerate of every one, that it would be
unnatural not to be interested in him."

'' Indeed it would," said Reilly, warmly.

I shall soon return. Pray don't move,
Mary; I want Doctor Reilly to have an
opportunity of knowing you."

People can't know each other by a few
opportunities of talking," said he, with a
smile.

Then Mary looked up. Those dreamy
azure grey eyes were somewhat different in
expression in this bright morning light.
How different from Kate ! There was no
dancing light in these eyes, none of the
occasional warm glow of Adelaide's tranquil
orbs. There was a steady calm gaze that

greatly puzzled the beholder. This girl was
not so silent from fear of speaking, or from
want of matter.

That's curious fancy work for a lady."

She said, " Yes ; probably''

"That is almost saying you don't know.
Yet you agreed with me."

'' I am aware that I have contradicted myself
in that brief reply. It only shows how
careful we should be in a matter of speech."

Would you have us limited to the ' yea,
yea, and nay, nay ' ? " Do you think that
more than that cometh of evil ' ? "

She regarded him steadily ; but a quick,
clear lightning flash struck from those calm
eyes really startled him. It was only
momentary, but it told him there was something
volcanic behind the calm.

Although mamma has given you the
right to catechize me, I don't feel called
upon to answer you on a subject that
solely concerns myself."

You take me too seriously, miss Mary."

The cold reply almost took his breath away,
but he did not let her see that. " I bess
your pardon. Of course, I have no right to
demand a reply to anything I may say''

He spoke with scrupulous politeness, and
then, leaning back in his chair, let his eyes
wander among the pretty garden scenery,
quietly ignoring her. This answered.

I did not think you intended to offend,"
she said ; " and I really do not know why I
should care not to offend you."

'' You seem to be suspicious of me," he
said, warmly.

I am fully aware you have some — shall
I say — design concerning me. Not wishing
to impress you with my superhuman
sagacity, I may as well say that any one,
with the commonest perception, might seethe
undercurrent.

Then she dropped the lids over her perplexing
eyes, and went on swiftly with the
netting.

She was an interesting study. He felt

that he could have watched the rapid
evolutions of those fair firm hands for
hours.

'* What a woman is lost here ! " thought he.
*•' Now, do you expect me to deny that ? " he
said, aloud.

1 don't expect anything," she said,
briefly.

How plainly you made your words say,
I should not be surprised at anything.' "

'you interpreted both letter and spirit
correctly. Did I say also that i/ou would
not be surprised at anything ? "

I did not read so much ; that would
have been untrue. I am surprised !"

And so he was at the turn the conversation
had taken. He wondered at that
moment what those other people were
talking about — those two bright creatures
whom he could picture underneath the
jessamine window, where both were youno-
and both were beautiful.

Was that the flicker of a smile on the

girl's fair face ? He would wait until she
spoke again.

Yes. They were whispering, those two,
and cooing like a couple of young doves,
falling in love with each other with all their
hearts, according to the most orthodox
canons of romance, and all without knowing.
And then he could picture Adelaide and
Bathurst serenely promenading the lawn, unconscious
of overlooker. Of course, they
were talking about cooking, or the elevation
of the masses, or taxation. " What did it
matter ? " thought Eeilly, who could not
divest himself of the suspicion that these
two were travelling the same road.

It was evident Mary did not intend to
speak. How in the world would a girl like
this make love ? Would a nervous tremor
ever pass through her frame and make those
beautiful fingers quiver ?

Do you find netting as interesting as
entomology ? "

*' You are sarcastic. I never think of

my netting from the moment I take it up
until I put it down. My mind is void."

You surprise me more and more," lie
answered, gravely. " I should not have
thought so." He was sure this time ; the
corners of her mouth, betrayed the desire to
smile, but she compressed her lips, and
denied herself the luxury. '' And I think
you are quite right," he went on. " It is
not advisable to employ our mental capacity
as well as our physical. Some minds, unfortunately,
are not under control as yours
is ; they absolutely wander when engaged in
mechanical operations."

She smiled outright. " I really thought
you took that literally."

Well, you are trying to deceive me," he
said. " It is quite fair."

Y-es," she said slowly and incisively,
'quite."

'' I think I shall deny that. It is evident
you can be sarcastic. I deny the 'quite.'
J am at a disadvantage."

'you should train your mind to be
occasionally void. One finds the advantage
of a rest when one has to concentrate one's
powers."

'' A mind may as well be void as dreaming
idle dreams for half one's time ; that is
the common phrase of being."

No ; nothingness is complete in itself.
There is only one other condition of mind
that can be said to be complete."

Yes ? "

Of course, you don't know. The perfection
of bliss," she added, gravely.

"Ah, but that doesn't last, you see ; and
nothing may. We are sure, at any rate, of
two perfect attitudes of mind. You know
it has been said that every man who thinks
is wicked."

That is true only as a matter of sentiment."


Yet man can only reach truth but by
thought, and the man who thinks must
necessarily think wrongly sometimes."

The man who does not think cannot
be universally right, therefore whatever he
may accept must be at least as wicked.
I confess I don't understand how the mere
act of thinking can be wicked."

"Not the act of thinking as I take it,
but the condition of possible thought."

That is entering upon another question.
What we have to deal with is the absolute
assertion. Every wicked man who thinks
will not reach high, pure, or good thought.
Every good man who thinks will reach
much that is good, if he should fail sometimes.
I deny your maxim."

It isn't mine. I should have thought
that philosophy would have been a more
congenial study than entomology to you."

You can study no science without
studying philosophy also ; they are indissolubly
united."

Another advantage you score above me."

That is by your own allowing. You
Know more than I do. Besides, sometimes

people play badly. You should not let me
see your hand'

'* Sometimes people don't know what
game they are playing."

*' That must be very awkward," she said,
softly.

'' I suppose you would not play ? "

Oh no ! "

Not in pursuit of truth ? "

''No. I should take up a side and
discover all that I could against myself.
I must assume that I am somewhere''

I must admit that I am nowhere."

I've given you every opportunity."

'you have been very good, if you have
spoken only for my satisfaction."

*' That never once occurred to me. I
resolved to be honest, for mamma's sake ;
for my own part, I should have chosen
to mislead you unmercifully. It is a piece
of impertinence for a man to sit down and
coolly take one to pieces as he would a
clock, and put the pieces together to suit

himself. No. I tell you candidly, I could
easily have impressed you with the idea
that I Alas an imbecile."

You could not," said he, shaking his
head slowly ; *' not with your brows, your
eyes, your hands."

I had forgotten you are a doctor. What
are you going to tell my mother ? "

Really," expostulated Reilly, " really — "

I ask too much."

He hesitated. It was indubitably clear
that Mary was not afflicted as the mother
was. But how had she managed to CDo^ender
the same belief in such a mind as this ?
Perhaps she had not. Perhaps the girl
knew exactly as much as he did about her
mother's condition. She was quite capable
of disguising her knowledge. Again, why
should she inform him of a fact that she no
doubt would wish to be a secret ? Why
should he not tell her of his suspicion ?
He did not see how he could lose anything
by it. He would gain if she would work

hand in hand. It was the expression that
occurred to him, and he could but admit
that the sensation would be a very pleasing
one. Such a hand as that could not be
picked up every day.

Not yet. He would wait. He did not
like to run the risk of a mistake.

Well," said she, rising, " I'm going
now. I should like to have known something
about the game. But, although I
never played before, I found it more amusing
than nothingness."

I'm not quite sure that you believe in
nothingness," said he, also rising.

You know how to evade the principal
point, and how to keep your secret. That's
on your side. I'm not going to take all
the honours."

If you are going, ' nothingness ' will be
left to me."

Oh, you can fill it up with something.
Nature abhors a vacuum."

*' That's saying you are unnatural."

No ; it is saying that you think I believe
in nothingness. Perhaps you think that I
am an ao-nostic."

o

And suppose I do ? "
"Well, then," she said, "you wrong me ;
for ao-nostics assert too much."

o

' Assert too much ! ' " he exclaimed.
Why, they deny everything."

They assert that they can deal with
the material, and not ^viih the immaterial.
They assert that they are formed of matter,
though they deny themselves any knowledge
of the consciousness through which they
arrive at the conclusion."

I don't think you want anybody to
assert or deny for you."

Certainly not. Each individual best
knows what he can reach."

Do you, then, reach the unknowable ? "

Any man who acknowledges himself
does reach the unknowable ; for through
bis own consciousness, his own mental condition
alone, can he know anything ?

There is not a material object we can reach,
but through the medium of the immaterial.
I should be more inclined to assert that we
can only know the unknowable."

Mrs. Elmore entered the room just as her
daughter uttered these words, and they sank
into her heart. She paled suddenly, and,
to Reilly's eye, looked unutterably troubled
as she approached them.

"I hope you have not missed me," she
said, in a rapid nervous way.

What has happened, mamma ? You
look as if something had taken your breath
away."

The mother's eyes went up appealingly to
Reilly. How plainly they uttered the question
she would fain have asked — " What has
happened ? "

I am afraid I am an unconscionable
visitor," said he. " I can only thank Miss
Mary for giving me so much of her time.
I trust we shall extend our acquaintance on
a future occasion."

Mary stood with her head half averted,
but he knew there was a side-glance at himself
all the time. She was quite still, and
the net hung over her arm, and the soft
woollen dress took such picturesque folds
that, once more, he found himself lost in
admiration of her superb simplicity. AVhat
other woman had he seen beside that vivid
picture of Marguerite wear such beautiful
hair in this fashion ?

Mrs. Elmore was too excited to detain
him ; so he went.

Then Mary turned to her mother, an untold
pathos coming suddenly into those
strange eyes of hers, making them look
quite misty, and, taking her hand tenderly,
said —

"What is the difficulty, dear? I know
you have always told Adelaide your inmost
thoughts ; now she is going, I shall want to
be in your confidence."

"You always have been in my confidence''

Until now," whispered Mary, softly.

"Nonsense, my dear. Is there anything
unreasonable in my wishing a man, whom I
esteem so much, to know you as he does the
rest of the family ? He naturally thought
that you were peculiarly reserved."

Mary laughed.

Now, what may this mean ? "

'' He will think me peculiar, if not reserved,"
said Mary.

Don't jest about it, Mary. I want you
to be serious ; and you usually are so.
What possesses you ? "

"The glamour of society, I suppose," she
answered, still lightly. " Mother dear, don't
concern yourself about me. Fortunately, I
have never yet given you any anxiety ; and
I declare you have no cause for it now."

"My dear girl, you mistake me, I think.
Doctor Reilly is so far advanced in his
profession, and has studied so deeply,
that I naturally desired to have so good
an opinion as to the course I had been
pursuing with you. He would be much

interested in your natural history, and all
that "

"He tuas highly interested in my natural
history. Oh, mamma ! " and Mary put her
hand up in expostulation, and fled from the
room very much after the manner of Kate,
with the net dragging after her.

"Now," thought Mrs. Elmore, "when
people act quite unlike themselves, what can
we suggest'' She was puzzled and confused
; but after all, she was more than half
convinced that Reilly's unexplained fear had
been entirely groundless.

VOL. I. 18

CHAPTER Xvii

'^ HOW HAVE I BEEN MISLED ? "

At the same moment that Reilly strayed
into the drawing-room, where Mrs. Elmore
and Mary were sitting, Bathurst succeeded
in intercepting Adelaide before she started
for her morning walk.

Yes, I've quite finished cooking," she
said, " for the present. I am going to
take my usual walk. In answer to your
other question, you may certainly come if
you like — except that you can't ; for Doctor
Reilly wants a little liberty."

I've just left Vivian most comfortably
settled with a book, or rather Reilly has.
He's his patient, you know. I dare not
interfere."

And they walked on.

"No one can accuse you of not taking
sufficient interest in your nephew, Colonel
Bathurst ; and indeed, it is not surprising,
for he has so many points of
interest about him. His beauty is not
the least to me, for I consider him perfectly
beautiful."

Bathurst smiled at the warm expression.
"He's a darling fellow. I am much
attached to him. Some, however, find a
cross-grain, a vein of cynicism, in his character
; but I don't. It appears that those
who are fond of him are very warm in
their admiration."

"That I can quite understand. I can
find no hardness in the character ; it is a
very fascinating one to me."

I am not so fortunate as Vin. . The
opinion you gave of me the other day does
not read as well as this."

She smiled. " You surely don't think you
are worthy of so much admiration ? "

"No; it's past my time," lie said, enjoying
this nonsense as much as any boy ; for
he had discovered that when this sedate
young woman stooped to repartee, his spirits
rose insensibly, until he literally did feel
young again ; no pretence of it, but all the
buoyancy, all the elation, that goes with
youth.

Oh, that you don't mean ! Do you
believe in the theory that as we are losers
of one point of attraction, we are, perhaps
unconsciously, gainers of another ? " she
inquired, playfully.

That would make us all more irresistible
as we get older. We should have the
remnants of past graces and those additional
ones you speak of."

But those later advantages have not
anything like the same amount of power.
These arrive from our own efforts to improve.
But the bewitching grace of nature,
which has been taught nothing, has a fascination
no art can reach."

Yet it is said that a cultivated woman
will do more damage than a simple maiden,
however lovely she may be," observed
Bathurst.

"It is utter nonsense for me to venture
to contradict that, although I still believe
that if the young beauty had the same
amount of natural intelligence your cultivated
dame might possess, your hero — of
course there is a hero to your tale — would
be in a perilous position."

"Upon my word, I believe you are
right ! For from those who have been
trained in the school of self-control we
rarely ever have spontaneous action, and
that of all charms is, perhaps, the most
overwhelming. That is the case where
you seem to see through the heart itself."

How fond you are of truth ! You
always seem to be searching for some
underlying meaning that can give you a
proof you have something true."

That is so. You have got one part of

my character, it seems. How about my
being misled ? "

Again sbe smiled. How perfectly easy,
how remarkably at home, she felt with this
man, whom she had known but a few
weeks ! It crossed her mind now, as they
talked, the time sped too rapidly, if happily,
while she was with him. Her face was
averted, and he did not notice the blush
her thought called up.

It will be soon over," she thought, with
a sigh.

How about my being misled ? " he
repeated.

Have you had that on your mind ? "
she asked.

*' I was puzzled to know to what you
referred."

In the pursuit of truth, then, you have
not discovered ? "

I have thought of many things."

Will you tell me what they are ? "

I had an idea you might disapprove of

my having taken up the cause of women — •
or of my peculiar ideas about property — ■
or that you might think it inconsistent ina
man holding certain opinions to keep my
household."

Well, you have the satisfaction of knowing
that you are not far wrong. It is a
pleasure to find one's self able to discover
meanings of things for ourselves."

But you surely don't mean that I am
misled in everything ? "

Am I upon oath ? "

Certainly. We will never break through
that contract."

Even if I tell you you are misled in
everything ? "

*' I have the strongest faith in your judgment
— and also in my own."

*' That is well put ! I'll tell you what
I've heard. First, then, you are one of
the most eccentric men of the age, on some
points ; you hold very singular social views.
For instance, we will take women. Do you

uot hold that they should have equal privileges
with men ; that they should never be
compelled to do any work of a more arduous
nature than taking care of a house ; that
you would have them always beautifully
dressed ? By the way, that's what Ruskin
says."

"That may be, but I am prepared to
swear that it is also what I say — beautifully
and consistently dressed. Go on."

"And that they might be statesmen if
they had the power ; and that they should
have every right equal with men. Well
stop there."

Hem ! That's Reilly's information."

But you should hear what Major
O'Buncous says of you," she said, laughing.

That's one of the unrecognized pleasures
of friendship."

How long have you known him ? He
doesn't know you in the least."

He never would. He doesn't know
himself."

Few men ever do."

But we need not be quite in ignorance.
But how have I been misled ? "

*' You will have it ! Your first aim, your
strongest desire, is to aid the progress of
women in every way. You hold, I think
rightly, that in our time, with a large preponderance
of women, we ought not to employ
men in our households. You are
certainly right in holding that laborious
employment of women should not be
allowed. The generosity of all this cannot
be denied. How do you proceed ? Every
man who has an opinion has a right — as I
take it, a moral ris^ht — to act to the best of
his endeavour in defence of that opinion.
You dismiss male-servants, and you surround
yourself with a number of very beautiful
young women. "

Here the colonel turned and looked at her.
Adelaide was not looking at him. Her eyes
were in the distance, pursuing the thread of
her argument.

And why very beautiful young women
? Do you think by these means,"
she went on, 'you are benefiting the
sex?"

"I'm giving extra employment."

But suppose you had filled your house
with women to whom nature had denied the
gifts of form and face ; if you had chosen
consistently those with personal defects, to
whom it is never easy to obtain employment;
would you not have been acting a more
charitable part "? "

I should," said Bathurst, stoutly. " But
with my — my propensities, I couldn't have
stood it."

Propensities ? "

"Yes; it's as bad as that. Understand
me, your argument is perfect. So is mine.
Recollect, we have no right to have these
unhappily ill-developed creatures about us.
I prove what things ought to be by what
I choose."

Then you do choose them ? Major

O'Buncous said you did. He said you had
hundreds from London when you wanted
one."

O'Buncous talks the — supreme nonsense,"
said Bathurst, hotly. " I make no
personal choice whatever. Mrs. Grove
understands a well-grown, healthy young
woman. It's true, I mention my aversions.
A squinting woman acts upon my nerves."
Adelaide laughed outright. '' You take
it too much to heart. I did not believe
the major. Don't you see, colonel, that
these young women would get on cjuite as
well without you ? The aid of nature is
more than yours. They would be chosen
anywhere, at any time. They all marry
very quickly, I am told, because, of course,
they are always sought. Now, I conceive
that they derive no advantages from your
system."

'' But I do," laughed Bathurst, following
her light mood.

Xo; that would be saying that your own

selfishness prevents you from aiding those
women who more require aid, and who, in a
sense, most deserve it."

Miss Elmore, I shall reform the ranks ;
every recruit shall be proved undesirable to
everybody else before I accept her. What
do you say to that ? "

I say that we are mixing sense and nonsense
in a very unusual way."

I find it very interesting. You have
only begun my list of mistakes."

I have ended. If you are going to
institute radical changes because I hint at
an inconsistency, I shall hesitate to find
fault."

"Seriously, I have often thought the
world gives too little attention to those who
really want help."

'' I am going into my sphere of action
next week,"

"So soon?"

It has been arranged for some time
that I should go, but my mother delayed ;

now, however, she has written to her friend,
who will be reach to receive me next week."
And Vivian is to be brought home
tomorrow. Neville has gone ; Reilly will
leave soon. I shall be desolate."
You will have Major O'Buncous."
Talk of— here he is ! "
Don't you neglect him a little ? "
Perhaps. It will be over soon."
Adelaide noticed the despondency of his
tone.

It does not do to be low-spirited when
one undertakes reform," she remarked courageously,
conscious of a sympathetic depression.
'' Suppose you stay and dine with us
to-day ? It would be a farewell dinner,
only — I have no novelty to offer you — only
a plain and, I must in my capacity add,
inexpensive repast."

What, talking about eating ao-ain ? " exclaimed
O'Buncous, coming up buoyantly.
You two ought to be able to live on the
thoughts of food."

Batliurst glanced at Adelaide, and both
laughed.

I should have thought you had exhausted
the subject."

You can exhaust the supply, O'Buncous ;
but you cannot obliterate memory, nor destroy
anticipation."

"The subject is an extensive one," said
Adelaide, with some formality.

Now, are you teaching him the art of
roasting apples? The first woman began
by teaching a man to steal 'em. There art
some things besides cooking." And then he
looked from one to the other, his great,
round black eyes rolling too boldly over the
lady to suit Bathurst's taste. Then, seeing
she was not regarding him, he winked at the
colonel. 'there's more things in cooking
than you can understand. There's reason
in a roasted Egg, I've heard — haven't you,
Bathurst, eh ? "

I wish reason could as easily be found
elsewhere," said Bathurst, a little viciously.

*'Ah! I see the divinest creature in
Christendom. You will excuse me, I'm
sure."

Excuse him ! "

** Nobody could possibly be angry with
Major O'Buncous. He seems to consider the
world was made for him. He is as thoughtless
and light-hearted as a child."

I have been in despair," O'Buncous said
to Kate, in a whisper ; "I thought I should
have to go away without a word with
you."

"You would have recovered."

Are you going down the river now ? "

"I'm going to be out, perhaps, ten
minutes."

"IsthataU?"

She shook her head in an abstracted manner.
Now O'Buncous began to notice that
she was preoccupied.

Now's mv time," thought he. "Young;
girls are always shy. She's beginning to be
afraid of me."

Kate was almost oblivious of his presence.
Her love-dream harlot come into waking
yet ; it was still a dream for which she was
irresponsible. With that fair aristocratic
face before her, and those impressive blue
eyes, the sound of the tenderest voice echoing
and re-echoing through her brain, she
was scarcely conscious of the present.

He walked slowly beside her, putting on
a sentimental air, and struggling to keep his
waist under firm control.

*' How many thousands of times, in the
course of your monotonous life, must you
have longed for a congenial spirit ? "

There was no reply.

Emboldened, he went on. ''I have felt

so myself ; I can sympathize with you. I

have gone on for years thirsting for a spirit

that would mix with mine. As the poet

says —

Two souls with but a single thought,
Two hearts that beat as one.' "

He gave the quotation forcibly.

Kate was roused for the moment. " I
wonder what he is meandering about ? " she
thought, catching the hist words. '* I'll try
to be civil to him, poor old fellow ! Nobody
seems to pay any regard to him — I'm sure
you are right, major," she said aloud, at a
risk.

I know I am," said he, emboldened. " I
have sought her in all climes — from pole to
pole."

What a pity ! " sighed Kate, under the
impression that he had lost some one.

I've sought her," continued he, hotly
pursuing what he thought a poetical figure
" I've sought her in a crowded ball-room,
and even in railway carriages."

Ah ! " said she, " how tired you must
be!"

Heavenly creature ! " he exclaimed, " I
can read your sympathy in those very words.
Tired ! why I should have given it all up,
but that something within " — here he extended
his hand over his heart and looked

VOL. I. 19

volumes — "something within told me I
should-find her."

Kate sank down upon a rustic seat, and
curled herself in the corner, letting her
eyes wander on the waving leaves beyond.
The influence was soothing.

How pleasant it would be just now to
be alone ! " she thought.

Poor girl ! she recognized the distraction
of her own mind, and did not know the
cause ; but she was too kind-hearted to show
a lack of sympathy.

I am listening," she said.

Oh, what an adorable thing is a woman
when she loves ! " he exploded. '^ She is a
thousand million times more attractive then.
There is a softness about her that enhances
every charm then. Love, Kate, is the — th e " —
he was hesitating to see how she took the
application of Christian name, and for an apt
quotation.

In her abstraction she had not noticed the
omission of the title.

Oh, love makes all things equal ! " he

cried, with a burst of enthusiasm, happily

remembering a line from an old burlesque.

Kings will forget their state at Love's dictation,
Cabman their rank, and railway guards their station.
Love makes all equal ; scorns of rank the rules,
Makes kings and beggars equal ' "

"What ! why, what are you talking about ? "
said Kate, in amazement, waking up to the
fact that he had lost sight of the lady altogether
now, and had launched into the
abstract.

Divine creature ! I am trying to give
you an idea of what love is."

It must be very bad indeed," said she,
relapsing — drifting back into her thought,
or rather into the pictures in her mind,
dreamily wondering how a man could talk
such nonsense.

I implore you to listen. You are cold,
and Love cannot endure ice. Heavens ! what
it is to be without experience ! You can
endure to see me in this state, and not pity
me."

I do pity you," lie said, with some
emphasis. " But I should have thought, at
your time of life, that it — it," she went on
vaguely, "would not have been so severe*'

There ! " exclaimed O'Buncous, striking
an attitude — " there is the greatest delusion
of the age ! A man like Bathurst, now,
doesn't understand life. With all his ideas
of reform, he hasn't reformed that error.
Though Fve been all my life trying to hit
the mark, thinking eternally I've got herat
last, I have found her, he protests he has
never seen the women he would have
married."

Perhaps he knows what he is looking-for,"
said she, with an air of apology.

Neither heard footsteps on the soft turf,
so Eeilly, who was attracted by the major's
spasmodic ejaculations, leant his back against
the trunk of the great oak, under whose
shade they were sitting, and ignominiously
listened.

I know what he is looking for," cried

O'Buncous, archly. " Sweet innocent — fur
no sucking dove was ever more so — I know."

Then why closet you tell him, Major
O'Buncous ? It would be but kind."

Was ever such marvellous innocence
heard of ? " he exclaimed. '' Dear creature !
let me be your mentor ; let me be the first
to initiate you into the mystery of love."

Major O'Buncous, I really would rather
not hear any more about it. I cannot conceive
why you should be annoyed sith
Colonel Bathurst because his ideas do not
correspond with yours."

She attempted to rise, feeling somewhat
confused by his increasing warmth of speech
and his plethoric warmth of countenance.

Nay, nay ! " he cried, feeling sure there
was strong tragedy in this romantic negative,
and seizing her hand while, with an effort
that seemed to invite apoplexy, he sank on
his knees before her. " You will not leave
me thus. You have heard my feelings for
you — I've expressed them as best I could.

though only the heart knows its own — its
own weakness. Be mine, clear maid ! "

*' Let me go instantly ! You must be out
of your mind ! Here have I been listening
to your incoherence, thinking that you were
regretting the loss of some one who had once
been dear to you. In the name of everything
that is reasonable, do not suppose that I
knew what you meant ! "

O'Buncous stood aghast while she uttered
these words in an angry, contemptuous
tone.

I will not betray you, for the sake of
the gentleman with whom you are staying,
but take care never to address me again,
except in common civility."

Then, with the air of a queen, and a bright
angry flush in her face, she walked resolutely
away.

O'Buncous did not follow her; he sat
himself down on the seat, and drew a
long-drawn breath.

And I thought she was leading up tome

all the time. What coquettes women are !
And, let's see, this makes the hundred and
fifty-seventh attack I've made on the female
heart in vain ! Man may conquer with a
sword ; but where is he against a woman's
tongue ? "

And Reilly silently endorsed the sentiment.


It was a malicious feeling to possess a man
of Reilly's type, but the thing must be
admitted of him. He actually waited and
waylaid O'Buncous, eyeing him critically ashe
did so.

Something has happened to you, major,
or I am mistaken. You are out of tone, it
seems."

*' Out of tone ? " repeated O'Buncous, contemptuously.
" How lightly you doctors
treat things ! By all that's holy, I'm at my
worst extremity. Never in all the course of
my life have I suffered as I am suffering
now."

Reilly shook his head. 'you ai exaggerating

your case, I'm afraid. Not
uncommon in patients of a certain temperament."


'' I'm speaking of the spiritual part of
me ! " exclaimed O'Buncous, warmly. " Your
heart and soul are buried in your profession,
and, as I have often told you, you've not
the sensation of a sponge. You're a
machine."

Thank you, O'Buncous ; thank you !
Now, what of the spiritual complaint you were
about to make ? I had a case not honor aro
quite similar. The man wore himself to
a shadow, because he discovered at fifty
years of age that he ought to have been a
Jew, whereas all his life he had been a
Roman Catholic."

"Well, couldn't he change and get it
over ?

No. His conscience refused to be
quieted, inasmuch as he felt the weight of
fifty years of rank heresy too much to atone
for. He quietly shuffled off his mortal coil,

resolving, as he told me id confidence, to do
better with the next chance he had."

Then didn't he put an end to himself? "
O'Buncous was uncertain.

I'm afraid I can scarcely answer that
question," said Reilly, gravely. '' There are
so many people, you know, who dispute the
possibility of an end — if you are alluding to
a spiritual end."

Your conversation's loose. Well, I don't
understand a man's committing suicide on a
matter of opinion."

What ! not if it's his own ? "

Certainly not. Well, anyhow, Fm very
well content with my religion. There's
something to hold on to in the Romish
Church. It doesn't give you room to doubt
the law's straight, and there's no dispute
about it. If you slide off, you're sure to
find the way back. Xow, a man might
commit suicide on a love-affair ; because,
you know, there is no royal road to a lady's
favour — and women are such coquettes."

'' You haven't been proposing to any one,
I hope ? "

By Jupiter ! I am consumed "

Well, you could afford the loss. AVait
till you are half through, and you'll bea
slim youth again. Unrequited love is
better that Allen's Anti-Fat as a flesh
consumer."

O'Buncous coloured, as his mind's eye
descried several empty bottles of the
same.

"Major," said Eeilly, solemnly, "you
would have a better chance with a lady if
you were half your present size."

Great Heaven ! Eeilly, women don't
choose by size — though in my youth my
figure was much admired. But experience
tells me that women marry sowl.''

"Ah! that is a satisfactory conclusion,
and it leaves a wide probability to you. So
you have been proposing ? "

Haven't I been doing it all my life ? "
interpolated O'Buncous.

I've only to do with one case," said
Reilly, tersely.

"case ' again ; you ought to be put in one
yourself. Yes ; the little hussy led me on
with her wheedling ways and — and on the
hint I spake — " Here he hesitated.

It had taken him a long course of training
to break him of that word. " Spake," he
repeated. '' Hang it all, Reilly ! Shakespeare
must have been an Irishman ! That's
a proof of it, you know, or else it's bad
grammar."

Reilly controlled his risible muscles.
All I have to say is, whether you ' spake '
or not, don't do it again, unless you wish
to annoy Bathurst."

Bathurst ! Is he spoony in the same
quarter? Well, anyhow, I've had the first
shy, and, size out of the question, he looks
as old as me any day."

End OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED.

LONDON AND BECCLES. G.,C.&'Co.

OF Thou
N Diversity
OF Ill Noise

82.3

•4.2.

University of Illinois Library

L161— H41

BT

MRS. M. MOORE.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON ;

IJublisijcrs in ordinary to $rr fHajrstp. tfjc ©urm.

1885.

fall rights reserved.)

CONTEXTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Gingerbread and Philosophy . 1

II. "Our Preferences won't hurt us" 19

III. How the " Seclusion " was " respected"

. . . 31

IV. "Let us always bury Unpleasant

Memories" . . . 46

V. "To stay the Whirlwind" . 63

VI. "The Glade is Paradise" . 88

TIL Worldly Experience . 97

Till. Kate's Questions « . . 120

IX. A Boyish Indiscretion . 127

X. The Secret is out . . 135

XL "I am going now" . . 151

XII. Grimslade . . . 168

XIII. The Colonel speaks his Mind 187

Nit. A Question of Moral Capacity . 101

XT. "Life is not for Rest" . 228

XTI. "Which of the Men is it?" . 238

Xvii. "Love abides" . . 249

Xviii. "Remorse must be Agony!" . 269

XIX. The Colonel is found out

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/autumnmanoeuvres02moor

CHAPTER I.

GINGERBREAD And PHILOSOPHY.

So, Reilly, you are sure it is possible to
remove Yin without a chance of injury ? "
It was a judicious inquiry.

The doctor smiled. " It might have been
possible ' last week' he said.

Then Bathurst coughed. " I consider
you have been most kind and unselfish,
Reilly, in this matter. I feel that you have
exceeded your duty a hundredfold."

The doctor bowed. "Thank you," he

said, with his happy smile. " It has been

a pleasant time to me, notwithstanding the
vol. n. 20

accident that has put us all out of our
reckoning."

That is so' acquiesced Bathurst. " I
remember your telling me you were due at
"Windermere this week."

I shall have to wait until next, to see
Seymour safe on his legs, and then I must
be off to the old folks at home."

Can't you postpone the visit for a
while ? "

Eeilly looked a reflective negation, and
the colonel went on —

"Neville starts for Madras to-day. I
don't think Vivian regrets his detention in
the least. Although the boy is as brave as
any honest man need be, he was not meant
for a soldier. I am sorry you have to go
and leave the mystery unriddled."

I will leave it as a legacy to you."

I'm not capable of dealing with it, you
know that. Yet — I am deeply interested —
hem — as a philanthropist."

Of course ; certainly," agreed Eeilly,

quickly. He felt that his own interest could
also be justified by philanthropy.

Don't forget me at Xetherby. Come
and see me if you can. I ask you as a
personal favour, not as a mere compliment
nor even as a friend's friend."

Yet there is a very tender aroma about
an old friendship," laughed Eeilly. Then,
with a thoroughly earnest ring in his
voice, " Thank you, colonel. I shall not
forget."

Then they talked of other things, each
carefully avoiding anything but a passing
allusion to the ladies.

Bathurst was rather doubtful about Reilly.
He was prepared to believe that this astute
young doctor had himself a vivid interest
in some one at the Glade ; but he also knew
he would be quite capable of concealing his
feelings. The colonel was sensible of an
unreasoning desire to know for which of the
ladies such preference might be. " Though
there's no chance for either of us — past,

present, or to come — that I can see. Weare
in a fog."

He had begun to realize a dismal prospect
in this dis association from the Glade. The
fact was, they were quite on a familiar
footing now. Mrs. Elmore had become not
only accustomed to receive him as her guest,
but to look forward to the light of his
society.

This morning the rain fell heavily ; yet
Bathurst did not omit to pay his matitudinal
visit to his nephew. His attentions were
amazingly consistent, too ; his invention never
wearied in producing some excuse for sending
those delicate trifles in the way of
flowers, books, and music, or a bottle of
rare wine that was to accomplish wonders in
giving strength and tone to Mrs. Elmore.

On this occasion he went first to the
dining-room, where the ladies spent the
morning, now that the morning-rooms were
occupied by Doctor Reilly and Vivian.

Mary was there, busy as usual; but she

did not retire immediately after he entered
the room, as she had always uniformly
done.

"I was tempted to stay in the hall and
listen to Gounod," he said, " but I feared
discovery, and I equally feared to approach
the song-bird's cage."

"You would not have frightened the
bird," laughed Adelaide.

No : but I should have frightened Mrs.
Elmore. She would have asked me if I had
forgotten which was the patient."

No one could ever mistake Kate for a
'patient In such weather as this, nothing
but her music will keep her quiet."

"That is my sister's idea of quiet,"
observed Mary, as the distant strains of
Faust " reached them.

Bathurst did not betray any surprise,
although he was positive this very retiring
young lady had never before honoured him
with a remark that had not been extracted.
He took up her jesting remark as playfully,

and from time to time she joined in the
conversation quite naturally.

The pleasant half-hour was nearly over
when Reilly came in. " Are you ever
coming to us, colonel ? " he said. " Good
morning, Mrs. Elmore. I haven't seen you
yet — have I ? The colonel's attentions are
unequal, and we feel it."

Mrs. Elmore shook her head. " I suppose
it must be my fault' she said. " How can
1 make amends ? "

By going with me to see Vivian," said
Bathurst. "No doubt he is feeling your
neglect more than mine."

And so it happened that Mrs. Elmore
hardly cared to refuse, or had no wish to
refuse, and Mary and Beilly were left alone
once more.

He had already received one glance and
a distant bow, but somehow he was not
satisfied. She had shaken hands with him
yesterday morning. The simple conventionality
of shaking hands seemed to bring them
together.

I don't think I shall take my five miles
this morning. Would you advise it ? "

"It is not my province to advise," she
said. " That is in yours."

Oh, I advise other people. But I want
other people to advise me."

Well, then, the question is — can you do
anything better than go out ? "

"Well, I think I can. But that all
depends on you. As you know, the mind
requires recreation as well as the body.
And having bored Seymour for several
mortal hours, I think I deserve a little
diversion — don't you ? "

So you think it would be a diversion to
bore me for another hour ? " Mary said, with
a little smile.

She was certainly more natural this
morning. He had passed the barrier of ice,
he was sure of it.

Well, since you have no resource, I
won't be so unmerciful as to drive you out
into the rain. However, you will hinder all

my work, and put out my calculations for
the clay."

Now you take all the gilt off the gingerbread,"
said Reilly, dejectedly.

What is gingerbread ? "

Oh, it's a beastly compound ! I hardly
know whether it's sold now. I hope it's a
relic of barbarism. Did you ever hear of a
country fair ? "

Reilly was watching her with strong
interest. The impassive expression had
faded, and the intelligence of the face was
allowed some play. Perhaps she had forgotten
her "part."

She nodded. " Yes, in the ' Vicar of
Wakefield'"

Well, this bread was sold at fairs, made
up into cake, and highly decorated with
flimsy tinsel, just as a bride's cake is in the
present day — except, you know, that's all
white."

I don't know."

That is of little consequence. I can't

tell you the origin of the bride's cake — I'm
next to certain, by the way, that she never
eats it ; therefore the custom of providing
one appears to be ridiculous."

I don't think Shakespeare mentions it ;
nor, indeed, do I remember coming across a
classical allusion on the subject," observed
Mary, reflectively.

Perhaps it is one of the happy results of
modern civilization, which frequently insists
upon an utterly useless, or even harmful,
thing as a dire necessity. Sweets, however,
seem to have been regarded as the appropriate
foods for newly married pairs. Our
ancestors were compelled by the iron law of
custom to decoctions of honey for a stated
period after their wedding ; but it seems
rather overdoing the thing to add i sweets to
the sweet.' The mixture — if mixture it can
be called — is inartistic. A little vinegar
would be more judicious, as tending to
correct a tendency to fermentation."

I see, you can't help regarding all things

in a professional light," she said, a sort of
careless indifference in her voice, and a
certain meaning in the steady depths of the
eyes raised to his.

"Yes," he answered, pleasantly. "Don't
you hold that a man's heart should be in
his work ? "

Even as he spoke he remembered how
pertinaciously he had striven to gain some
intimacy with this girl, whose conduct was
still enigmatical to him.

Most certainly. But we have wandered
somewhat from the point," she said. " However,
judging from the vaguest outlines, I
should be inclined to think that the exterior
of the gingerbread was preferable to the
interior."

No doubt. Although it was all bad
enough ! "

"Exactly. Now I think I have caught
the exact meaning of the application."

Oh, that is cruelly sarcastic ! I only
meant to say you had made a most gracious

condescension, but had detracted from your
own merit by allowing me to see that it was
a sacrifice."

You are right," she said, with a dash
of bitterness in her low voice. " I was
abominably rude."

I will not allow you to say so ! All
that, and much more, is permissible in
familiar dialogue."

But I had no such excuse," she said, a
trifle stiffly. " I was not jesting."

I don't want you to find an excuse. I
am quite content, whether you jest with me
or reprove me."

Eeilly spoke with more earnestness than
the occasion demanded, and Mary was silent
after this speech.

Fm quite satisfied," he continued,
"we're getting through the wet morning
delightfully. May I look at that parcel of
books which has just arrived ? "

He had noticed her eyes wander lovingly
from him to them, and hoped to engage her
interest.

"By all means," she said.

Beilly picked up the packet a servant had
just delivered, and brought it to the table.
While he did so he saw the names of Spinoza
and Charles Reade, of Victor Hugo and
Darwin, of Goethe, and an odd volume of
old plays.

These girls were not so far out of the
world as he had thought.

I'll help you through these," he said, " if
I may. Which is your choice ? "

I take Darwin and Spinoza ; Dell, Hugo
and Goethe ; and Kate revels in the most
modern and the most ancient. She likes
nothing else. But," continued Mary, in
surprise, " haven't you read all this ? "

1 1 No. I have not had time "

No, no ! I forget that we have nothing
else to do with our time."

I fear I am a bad reader. If I differ
from an author, I lose patience with
him."

And then defects become more conspicuous.

There is, perhaps, no author, anymore
than any person, who is void of faults.
But any one is welcome to them ; I am
satisfied with the beauties."

You make me envious. I have a strong
leaning to philosophic study, but have been
deterred from reading. I will tell you
frankly why — because I positively feared
the effect these various conditions of thought
might cause. It has been part of my training
to reconcile conditions, to make seeming
contradictions agree, to disassociate the false
from the true. My own tendencies, you see,
stood in my way. H

I don't quite see that," she said,
meditatively.

Do you not ? Could I hope to bring-about
an accordance of all the schools of
philosophy ? I have always deemed it a
matter of regret that the higher minds do
not agree on points of abstract thought."

Mary turned her beautiful intelligent
eyes full on him, and said, with a weight

of expressive emphasis, " I think they do

agree."

There was silence after this startling
speech. Then she went on with a hesitating
modesty that gave her words more weight —

"Men have only a different capacity for
accepting truth, and a different mode of
demonstrating it. All forms of thought are
true. Truth is in everything. The nature
of things is in its essence true. It is impossible
to escape truth. The grossest
superstition possesses its atom of truth.
It underlies even evil itself. Truth is."

The meaning in her grave sweet face,
above all the flash in those quiet eyes, carried
him quite out of himself, and gave a deeper
significance than even the low expressive
words themselves.

Nothing will deter me from the study
of philosophy, for the future," he said.
While as he spoke he thought —

Where is any author in the world
Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye ? "

Eeilly's senses became very agreeably confused.
This theory Mary had j must expounded
seemed the most natural truth in the world.
Who would think to receive a shock in the
very foundation of one's ideas from a mere
girl, an inexperienced girl, shut out from
the contemplation of life, save through the
medium of books ? Who could tell but that
woman might be created to answer the
enigmas of life as well as to form one ?

To most minds," he said, " it is only
possible to recognize truth by one light.
You seem to have the gift to see it under
any aspect."

Please change the subject," she said,
hurriedly. " Here comes mamma ; she
doesn't like it."

And Eeilly took the hint obediently. It
was pleasant indeed to see the strong attachment,
the loving respect, this family bore
to each other.

Would Mrs. Elmore object if we returned
to the subject of pastry ? " he asked

in an undertone, as that lady entered the
room.

"That, I fear, we should find very indigestible,"
said Mary, sweetly.

By Jove ! She has some sense of
humour, too' thought Reilly ; and he
experienced a thrill of disappointment on
seeing her gather up the books and leave
the room.

I hope we have derived mutual benefit
from the change of scene," said he, cheerfully.
" I shirked my walk this morning,
you see."

"Don't go yet !" she said, appealingly. " I
have not had an opinion about my daughter."

Surely we ought to know that our
anxiety was ill-founded. Her reserve was
evidently only the result of her singular
training upon her exceptional intellect.
There is no fault to be found with your
daughter, but that she is too clever to be
readily understood."

Then, Doctor Reilly, don't you think —

tell me candidly — don't you think it would
be wise on my part to prevent her — oh, you
cannot think how anxious I am to do rio-ht !
to prevent her from developing that
intellect ? "

He listened to her earnest, halting speech
most patiently, then shook his head gravely.
"It is too late," he said, "after allowing
your daughters an indiscriminate choice of
literature, to talk of curbing their natural
intelligence."

Mrs. Elmore's face flushed as she answered
with excitement, " That matter has not been
one of my least difficulties. I assure you I
kept them, only by the most scrupulous care,
from everything but history and the Bible.
Oh, consider, doctor ! Look at the bare facts
of history shorn of all description. And then,
when their minds craved for food, I gave
them Shakespeare. Then Dell bought a
newspaper at a remote railway station.
After that they acquired a taste for contemporary
literature."

VOL. II. 21

I don't think you had need to hesitate,
after Shakespeare and the Bible," said
Eeilly, encouragingly.

u l considered the matter carefully, and
arrived at that conclusion," continued she,
solemnly. " And now it comes to this — that
they know more, much more, than I do on
every subject under the sun ; and only by
their love to me can I influence them at
all ! "

The only influence worth a rap," said
Eeilly, energetically.

"At first I dreaded the effects of their
liberty. There was such an insatiable demand
for poetry that I trembled. You
know the halo of romance surrounding the
poetry of love ; and what poetry does not
teem with the subject ? Even Kate's songs
are nearly all love-songs," she added,
mournfully.

All I can say in defence of the subject is
to remind you of an old saying —

'Tis love that makes the world go round."

CHAPTEE II.

OUR PREFERENCES WON'T HURT US. '

It was an undeniable fact that the ladies
at the Glade were somewhat dull after the
invalid had been removed. The excitement
was over, and it was but natural a reaction
should set in. Yet, singularly, no allusion
had been made by any one, until Adelaide
one evening, after the lamp had been lighted
and the family sat down together to pass the
quiet hours in rational recreation, made a
sudden irrelevant remark.

There seems to me to be a want in the
house now Mr. Seymour has gone. It's a
fact, mamma, that I was really sorry to part
with him."

Mrs. Elmore did not reply at once. Perhaps
that was excusable, because she was
occupied with her needlework, and it appeared
to give her some trouble at the
moment.

"Don't you think this augurs well for my
future success ? " continued Adelaide, drawing
up her chair to the table.

"I am afraid, Dell, you will not find
every patient as interesting as Mr. Sey-mour,"
said her mother, guardedly.

I refuse to be depressed ! Doctor Eeilly
gave me every encouragement."

Oh, how I hope Colonel Bathurst will
come in now and then ! " broke out Kate,
looking up from her lace work.

"My dear child," said Mrs. Elmore,
with some indignation at the suggestion,
he will certainly not do so ; he has, fortunately,
now no cause'

Then I will give him cause. I will ask
him to come and see me."

Kate \ '

"Is it worse to express our feelings than
to have them ? I doubt it. Oh, Mary,
you're looking a terrible affirmative ! Well,
in my humble opinion men are delightful !
I'm sure I am quite fond of the colonel. I
wish he was my uncle. Haven't we any
uncles, mamma ? They might form an
interesting change in the monotony of our
lives. Then, too, I really admired that
grave, self-contained young doctor mamma
was so confidential with. Even the ridiculous
old major was amusing — sometimes."

I think that qualifying ' sometimes ' was
necessary," laughed Adelaide. " I always
found him in the way."

He never troubled me but once," remarked
Mary, severely.

You would never let any one trouble
you, dear, if you did not desire it," said
Kate, wickedly. " Now, I am honest, I
admit that I am not troubled — by Colonel
Bathurst."

You are honest, Kate," said Mary, lazily,

but hardly honest enough to state the
whole truth."

I must admit that I irish Kate would
talk less lightly upon some subjects," said
Mrs. Elmore, emphatically and uneasily.

She is only talking nonsense, mamma,"
interceded Mary. " Her nonsense ought todo
us good. It can't hurt her."

Indeed, I know that," said the mother,
a little awkwardly, but still emphatically ;
but my old prejudices cling to me, I suppose.
It grates upon my ear that a girl
should even jest about running after a
man."

"Does it, now?" asked Kate, with a
deliciously innocent air, " Why now, I cannot
only understand such a thing, but sympathize
with it. If, for instance," she went
on with solemn impressiveness, " I saw the
figure of a man in a long black cloak and a
slouched hat on the horizon of my vision,
and a voice cried out, ' There goe Tennyson
! ' — oh, it is no use denying it ! — I

would run miles for only a glimpse of the
poet — our poet — my poet."

Her playful rhapsody provoked a smile
even from her mother.

I'd do the same," said dignified Adelaide,
with genuine earnestness ; "I'd do the same
for a glance at Ruskin."

Then Mary's calm eyes shot their contribution
of warmth, as she said, " I should
walk faster if Darwin were ahead of
me.

I'm afraid we all soar too high, mamma,"
laughed Kate, smoothing her mother's hand
with an affectionate gesture. " Our preferences
won't harm us, will they ? "

Poor lady ! she smiled an approval, and
dropped the subject. She felt that these
girls were fast slipping out of her control.
One of those long-drawn heavy sighs escaped
her tremulous lips, that were always more
tremulous after she had been betrayed into
a smile.

The girls exchanged glances.

"Wouldn't you like a game at whist,
mamma ? " asked one.

Or shall we £0 on with our readings ? "
asked Mary.

Yes, if comment is allowed'' cried Kate.
"And oh, Mary, here's such a splendid
article in the ' Modern Mystic,' on woman
and woman's progress ! Now is woman's
time evidently, and here are we wasting
with ideas, and can't use them."

Speak for yourself, my dear. I am not
wasting."

But have you read it ? It is signed
E. B.' It goes to prove the immense power
women ought to wield — and, haven't you
heard mamma say," continued Kate, dubiously,
" that woman always has ruled the
best men ? "

Don't forget to emphasize the best, Kate ;
and suppose we substitute 'influenced,' or
guided,' for ruled."

That's splitting hairs. And I believe
you know that Shakespeare went far to
prove what mamma said."

"Bravo, Kate. Between mamma and
Shakespeare, we can't be far out."

* * *

O'Buncous and the colonel were breakfasting,
the former was just reciting an
exciting romance of which he was the hero.

I beg your pardon for interrupting the
story, but would you pass the dry toast ? "

I could not submit to be advised by a
woman," the major continued with heat,
while he unconsciously flourished the toast
rack, and slid the half-dozen slices into the
butter. " Oh, there, see what I've done !
Well, it's lucky it's no worse, Mind, I'm
ready to admit that she was right — events
proved "

At this moment Eeilly came in.

Good morning, doctor," said Bathurst.
Do help yourself out of consideration fora
hungry man."

Thanks. I am afraid I am interrupting
O'Buncous," Eeilly remarked, politely.

Well, I was telling Bathurst a most

curious incident that happened to myself
not so many years ago."

"Pray go on. I can pick you up."

Don't begin again," put in the colonel.

Well, perhaps such a thing never happened
before. Our courtship was carried
on entirely by telegraph. The expense was
considerable ; but what lover, worthy of the
name, ever thinks of expense ? "

"And she jilted you after all ?" inquired
Bathurst, absently.

Jilted me ! Let me tell you I never
was jilted yet."

Then were you dishonourable enough to
jilt her ? " asked the doctor.

Reilly," exclaimed O'Buncous, with
solemn emphasis, "that woman was like
the goodly apple — rotten at the core. Bless
you, when the affair had been going on for
some time, I discovered that she was
married."

Really, O'Buncous ! "

I was as innocent as a lamb, Bathurst,"

continued the major, in measured impressive
accents. " The Lord only knows why she
hit upon me. I never saw her in my life."

What ! " exclaimed Eeilly, pausing with
his fork half-way to his mouth.

I'll admit it sounds odd. But her
object evidently was to rouse her husband's
jealousy. 'Twas she proposed the telegrams,
and they answered her purpose. I had not
thought it necessary to moderate my language
— which was always flowery. "

I wonder he didn't shoot you ! ' :

He tried," cried O'Buncous, with glee.

I suppose, then, you shot him ? "

No. As luck would have it, a meddling
friend told him I had never met the lady.
Then he declined to fight when we came
face to face. A cowardly fool ! though, I
will say, as fine and handsome a young
fellow as I ever saw. He laughed at me !
It would have been an insult to be shot by
such a man. He was worthy of his wife ! "

Never mind, O'Buncous ; take some

more pie. Here's Vivian coming ; be will
keep you company." And Bathurst wheeled
round his chair and took up the Times.

The young man came in languidly. " Give
me a cup of tea, Beilly, there's a good
fellow."

Why, you look half asleep."

I am not awake yet."

Then I'll wake you, Vin," said Bathurst,
giving an energetic whirl to the castors of
his chair. " Guess who has married the
greatest heiress in England — Thorp-Cotton.
There, now."

Vivian shook his head slowly, betraying
not the feeblest interest.

Why, young Cortez, of the Carabineers."

Good Heavens ! " exclaimed O'Buncous.
I knew his aunt ! How singular ! "

How — singular ? That Cortez should
have married because of your knowing his
aunt ? or that the fact of your knowing
his aunt ought to have deterred him from
matrimony ? " asked Vivian, carelessly.

Bless me soul ! nothing: to do with his
marrying. I odIv said it was remarkable
that I should have known his aunt," responded
the major, warmly.

I still fail to discover the singularity'
said Seymour, with the idle indifference he
knew irritated O'Buncous. " Cortez couldn't
marry as many times as somebody might
claim acquaintance with his aunt."

I'm dashed if I know what you mean !
You're too clever by half."

Which, now, is the most peculiar incident
— the one most deserving* of historic
record — Cortez having married, his having
captured an heiress, your knowing his aunt,
or the question of peculiarity ? "

The last proposition, undoubtedly," remarked
the doctor, with grave decision.

Well," said O'Buncous, rising, a perplexed
expression in his rubicund face, " I'll
leave you to find out between yourselves.
for the devil himself couldn't make out what
you mean."

Vin is anxious to get on horseback," said
Bathurst to Reilly. " Do you think that
could be managed ? "

Reilly did think it could be managed ; he
also thought he knew the reason for the
young man's anxiety.

Riding will do him all the good in the
world," he said ♦, and then went on irrelevantly,
" You can spare me now."

It seems abominably selfish to say we
can't, but I really wish you could give me
another week."

You're very good, colonel. I will think
about it."

He had to admit to himself that he was
not unwilling to stay. He was leaving apparently
at the wrong moment. It was
true he had dispelled Mrs. Elmore's vague
fears for her daughter, and had become
familiar enough with Mary to laugh over
their first advances.

CHAPTEE III.

HOW THE "SECLUSION ' WAS " RESPECTED.

Kate's wish had been gratified. Colonel
Bathurst had not omitted to call at the
Glade, nor indeed had any of the other
gentlemen. Certainly, for a da)' or so after
Vivian's removal, the Glade had been deserted
by those frequent visitors ; but after
this slight reaction every one but Mrs. El-more
had apparently forgotten that there
was any necessity for retirement, so the same
party strolled out about the gardens in pairs :
together, yet apart.

Yet there were subtle differences, visible
and invisible. The gleams of sunshine that
shot across the oaks fell in more slanting
rays ; the leaves were not now all upon the

trees, some of them rustled in agreeable
accord with the swirl of the ladies' dresses,
as they came into contact on the lawn.
Occasionally some one might mention these
slight changes in the scene, but never came
the faintest allusion to those invisible
changes that were as certainly there.

The fact is, Bathurst," said Reilly, seriously,
one day when they were alone, "I see
no reason to abandon my first idea with
regard to Mrs. Elmore. But I have not yet
decided as to a direct line of treatment. In
my opinion, she is suffering from a delusion
strongly impressed upon her in time of
trouble. I want time to think and learn
something on the subject. Until then I
shall not feel I have the right to act."

Under such circumstances we are quite
justified in any action. Now, / could not
do it" — here Bathurst hesitated and looked
at Reilly significantly — "but I think that,
as a doctor, you could manage to inquire
the real cause of her idiosyncrasy."

I have made several ventures on the
subject, but I can elicit nothing. I cannot
ask a direct question ; I can only hint. She
invariably ignores my hints."

Then he paused and smiled, as he could
not help remembering how persistently they
had ignored her hints that she wished to
resume the strict seclusion of her life. Certainly
the young ladies had not withdrawn
themselves when any of the gentlemen
appeared, and that was surely a good omen.

I hope we are not annoying the ladies
by our visits," said Bathurst, tentatively.

Then the other knew that Mrs. Elmore
had also alluded to the frequency of their
visits to the colonel.

To one lady," Reilly said, " our visits
have been a source of more than annoyance ;
perhaps because they have been pleasant to
the others. No, I don't think annoyance
has anything to do with the question. "

I was half afraid that O'Buncous "

commenced Bathurst, hesitatingly.

VOL. II. 22

Oh, the major ! No one cares two straws
about him."

Now, it seems to me you are half-way
behind the scenes. I have observed innuendoes
between you and Mrs. Elmore ;
but I have no wish to tread upon forbidden
ground."

We have all been doing that rather
freely, and that is why we are requested to
keep our distance."

"We ought, I think, to — to make some
slight explanation to Yin, and threaten
O'Buncous. Even if Mrs. Elmore had shown
us no special kindness, I never could permit
her to suffer any annoyance." Then he broke
off, and after a pause resumed, " For myself,
I intend to show my respect by an occasional
visit — quite formal — merely — of course,
merely — to show my respect and gratitude."

"Exactly," said Eeilly, quickly. "That
is quite my position. Mrs. Elmore has
shown me so much honour in bestowing her
confidence "

Confidence ! "

u Well, we all knew there was some
reason why the residents at the Glade
desired absolute retirement ; but she did not
know that we knew. That is all she has
admitted to me."

If she had gone as far with me, I
think I should have been tempted — yes.
Reilly, I think I should have extorted the

reason."

So should I, if I could," was the sharp
retort.

That's acid," said Bathurst.

"Yes," said Reilly, with a slow smile.
Has it occurred to you that we all show
more warmth to this matter than it's
worth ? "

I won't say 'than it's worth'; I don't
know what it's worth."

"Doesn't it appear to you that you do
take more interest in these ladies than the
occasion warrants ? "

Bathurst took the home-thrust valiantly.

He did not allow it to affect him at all ; he
was prepared for it.

Not exactly," he said, dryly. " It was
not for myself I was concerned ; it was your
interest I noticed, and your remarks show
I was not in the wrong."

The past intimacy of my family "

began Reilly, in an affected formal tone.

Then both men looked straight at each
other and smiled.

Exactly," said Bathurst, in the same
affected tone. "And some subtle attraction,
unaccountable and additional "

Come, come," said Reilly, with his irresistibly
good-natured laugh, " I'm not going
to deny the subtle attractions of the Glade,
but I do say emphatically that I'm not the
only man who has felt them ! "

Bathurst would have given something to
know which attraction was the most potent,
and he was trying to frame the question
inoffensively and impersonally, if possible,
when Reilly said —

"The thing that promises most danger is
the state of your nephew'

"Do come to the point," broke in Bathurst,
impatiently. " What of my nephew's state ? "

"Well, here again my knowledge is
entirely drawn from inference," said Beilly,
with such evident caution that Bathurst was
conscious of an abrupt confusion of his
faculties. " When you take an impressionable
boy, and bring him into frequent intercourse
with such an exceptional woman as
Miss Elmore " — he fixed his eyes upon
Bathurst's face as he spoke deliberately —
when you do this, I say, knowing what
power she must have, who can wonder at
the result ? "

I — ah ! — hem — you confound me, Beilly.
Your ideas are not all — all that they might
be. You have wonderful prescience, I admit
that. But the cleverest man must be
out of calculations sometimes."

You are not willing to believe it ? " said
Beilly, emphatically.

I am not ! " said the colonel, as strongly.
Vin is several years younger than she."

A young man always falls in love with
a woman a few years older than himself.
It's proverbial ? "

"I must have been mad to let him stay
so long ! "

Say, rather, ' preoccupied.' Hush ! here
he comes."

Vivian came into the room looking radiant.
The slight lameness — it was very slight now
made him only the more interesting.

1 ' Ah ! How well you're looking, Vin !
Been riding, I suppose ? I never see you
at all now."

"Except at the Glade," said Vivian,
slowly.

Eeilly thought he read a veiled meaning.

Yes," answered Bathurst, sharply. " Yes ;
I go there to look after other people."

He spoke with unquestionable emphasis.

"So do I" drawled Vivian, with the
same imperturbability.

But — but it is my duty," said Bathurst,
reddening.

Beilly strolled off, and became warmly
interested in a view from the farthest
window.

I'd stake my existence, now, that you
had been out the whole morning in the
Glade gardens."

The colonel spoke warmly, and was
evidently more excited than the occasion
seemed to warrant.

You would be safe," was the calm,
deliberate reply.

"Vin, you are a gentleman by nature
and training. Now, I'm not good at hints,
so I'm sure you'll take me in good part
when I tell you that your — ah — um — attentions
are not well received."

I am the best judge of that, uncle,"
retorted the young man, with great
equanimity.

How infernally awkward I am ! " thought
Bathurst. He was well aware that he stood

at a disadvantage. Could it be because the
boy looked so uncommonly handsome ?

Look here, Vin," he said, explanatorily,
"you know as well as I do there is some
reason why Mrs. Elmore desires her daughters
to lead this secluded life. Well, the fact
is you are the very man to break a girl's
heart. Of course, you wouldn't do it if
you knew. But recollect that these girls
have seen nothing of the world, and — and
the attention you might lavish on a woman
of society, which would excite no remark,
might in this case cause a world of misunderstanding."


"Now, that's a curious contradiction,"
Vivian began leisurely. " Society, it appears
to me, is more addicted to construe
common politeness into ( attentions ' than
to ignore them. The ladies of the Glade
do not seem to understand attentions. "

There is the danger I wish to point
out. A girl might fall in love without
knowing it."

"Then it wouldn't hurt her."
Don't talk lightly. I am in earnest."
So I perceive. So also am I."
No ; for you foresee nothing. Xow, I
would avoid the danger."

Is that why you go to the Glade so
often ? " inquired Vivian, innocently. There
was not a shade of satire in his tone.

"I — I — I am quite an ol — another man."
You were wise in the substitute. Ylrich
lady do you prefer ? "

"Well, for cool impertinence, Yin, you
reach anything I ever met ! ' exclaimed
Bathurst.

There seems to be so little in mere
preference," said Vivian, with light indifference.
" Of course, if I had been
alluding to a stronger feeling, the question
might be more pertinent — and perhaps, to
your mind, not so impertinent. Suppose
we make that the question now ■ "

Suppose we tell a young dog, who
thinks himself devilish clever, that he can't

by the thin disguise of retaliation avoid
being found out ? I know you too well
to dream you would offend a lady ; and
Mrs. Elmore has admitted to Eeilly that
our visits ought to cease."

This final clause was put in with great
vigour.

Ah ! she has made an exception of me
all alone, and until I receive a personal
hint, I shall, out of mere gratitude, occasionally
call."

Hang it ! if we call — you — and I —
and Eeilly, who's to prevent O'Buncous
from calling ? "

Is there any reason why you and Reilly
should call ? Pray don't disturb yourself,
uncle. Put a stop to all the calling at
once. I can quite sufficiently maintain the
family dignity."

"No, Yin. Your age precludes it. It is
I who, by virtue of my residence here "

"And by what 'virtue' does Eeilly excuse
himself ? "

The past relations of their families, and
the confidence Mrs. Elmore thought proper
to repose in him."

I wish she had tried me ! " exclaimed
Vivian, hotly. " I would have got at something
tangible."

This echoing of himself only roused
Bathurst's strong desire to penetrate the
mystery.

"Your own interest betrays you," he
said. " For your own sake, as well as
hers, the acquaintance must be broken.
It is an unfortunate episode."

"That is not clearly demonstrated —
yet."

Then will you tell me, in strict confidence,
if it is your design to bring that girl
to love you ? "

Vivian's blue eyes scintillated as he replied
carelessly, "Well, for cool impertinence,
I never knew your match ! If you will
disabuse your mind of ' misfortune to the
girl,' I don't mind telling you that if Miss

Elmore condescended to fall in love with me,
I should be the happiest man alive."

Adelaide ! "

The name, in a tone of painful conviction,
escaped Bathurst in his self-absorption.

Adelaide ! The word startled Vivian by
its fervour ; but through his surprise he was
quick enough to take the advantage. Checking
the smile on his lips, he said buoyantly —

All right, uncle ! Recollect, I've not
admitted anything about the lady in question,
but I've found you out ! "

Bathurst recovered himself.

Damned mean thing to do ! ' he exclaimed,
pulling himself together. " However,
having gone so far, the best thing, my
boy, would be a mutual understanding."

It's been a misunderstanding, quite long
enough," said Vivian, enjoying the joke. It
was but for a moment ; then he went on impressively,
looking straight into his uncle's
disturbed and gloomy face, " I don't in
the least object to your knowing that Kate

Elmore is the girl I am bound to many — if
I can. And that, failing her, I shall never
marry any one else."

Spoken like a man and a lover ! "

"And a brother ! " interpolated Vivian.

Bathurst heaved a sigh, a long-drawn
satisfactory sigh, of relief.

We have very little to joke about.
What line, pray, are we to take next ? '

Medicine is the most promising ' line '
for us ; Beilly's our man," said Vivian,
sententiously.

Yes ; and he is going. And so, remember,
must you."

CHAPTER IV.

LET US ALWAYS BURY UNPLEASANT
MEMORIES."

Kate, dressed in her green cloth habit, was
vigorously brushing her hat before starting
with Ajax, who stood looking very rough
and pretty, the mutilation of his flowing
tail not proving disastrous to his beauty.

Of course, a little caressing took place.
It was enjoyed on both sides ; after which
they started. The invigorating air was
alone a pleasure, the delight of easy rhymic
movement was the next, the panorama of
charming scenery was another delight ; and,
because pleasures, like troubles, never come
alone, here before her, just at the turn of
the narrow shaded lane, his horse walking

slowly, and looking as languid as did his
master's drooping hand, that let the reins
fall loose, came Vivian Seymour.

It was very strange, of course, because
Kate had not ridden for some days, and
every day had found Vivian at the Glade.
She was conscious of the peculiarity of the
situation, but she was too brave to shirk it.
Besides, if she turned back — but that she
could not do. There was no alternative ;
they were bound to meet.

Then the listless man on the horse caught
sight of her, and once more he became erect,
and drew up his horse's head to a sense of
duty. There was no lack of interest in the
eyes that met hers.

I was going to call on you," he said,
slowly.

Ah ! now you will have to call upon
some one else," she said.

Shall I ? It was you I wanted to

see."

:c Well, you can't ; I shall not be there."

She had coloured, flushed that exquisite
celestial red he loved to watch. Her light
words betrayed the nervousness she always
felt with him until they had talked for some
little time.

I am sorry for that," he said gravely,
his eyes wandering about her adoring,
because I — I might not have another opportunity
of saying good-bye to you."

He was watching her intently, and saw
with keen delight the warm blush fade into
pallor.

Indeed ? Yes ; you — you are going to
follow your cousin to Madras ? ,J

No I " he said.

He had turned his horse's head, and they
were now travelling along the narrow lane,
with the cathedral arch of elms, just as
slowly as he had come.

No ? " she repeated.

No ! My uncle is urging me to go
home. Of course it's necessary I should do
so some day."

It can only be amazing to me that you
should want urging " she said.

"Ah, that would naturally occur to you.
There can be no place like home to one who
knows no other place."

That sounds like ingratitude."

It is not so. My home and my mother
are as dear to me as anything of the kind
can be."

There can't be anything of the kind'
said Kate, stoutly.

"Well, not quite of the kind' he admitted,
seeing an excellent opportunity for a
Shakespearian quotation, but resisting it.

But there are other interests that we
develop — other "

Yes, yes ; such as music and cooking
and conchology," said Kate, shifting uneasily
from the point. "You ppver told
me anything about your 'views.' I know
a great deal about Doctor Reilly's and
Colonel Bathurst's. Perhaps you are like
me — you haven't developed any ? "

vol. ii. 2a

I am developing one very rapidly," he
said, resolutely. "Did you notice my
abstraction when we met ? I was solving a
difficult psychological problem, of which I
was the uninteresting centre. I think I
might be able to arrive at the height of
views ' if you would assist me."

Oh, oh ! I haven't arrived at my own
yet," said Kate, still nervously on guard.

There was a difference, somehow, between
being inside those high nunnery walls and
outside. They both felt it. Vivian was not
so thoroughly at his ease from the very
sense of freedom, and Kate w T as much disturbed
by his unusual gravity.

Then you don't care to know what I was
thinking about ? " he asked, significantly.

"It's too much to ask people to be interested
in our thoughts," she said. And, in
assuming the light impertinence that became
her, she confused him and disarmed
the gravity that was rapidly setting towards
solemnity. " How beautiful these trees are !

Just here, where they droop over and touch,
is, I think, the prettiest part. I can reach
the boughs quite easily." She lifted her arm
and pulled down a branch. " See, the leaves
are quite fresh and green yet. I don't see
a sign of the sere and yellow — do you ? "

And he said "No," in a low impressive
voice, looking at her intensely while she
spoke.

But she, instinctively wise, kept her eyes
away, though she did not knew what the
danger was she would avoid.

Oh, what a beauty ! Do look, Mr.
Seymour. It is positively magnificent.
Look at the brilliant colouring ; like velvet,
too. Did you ever see anything finer ? "
- She held out her hand, and on the finger
of the dog-skin glove was stretched an
enormous caterpillar. It was beautiful ; he
could but acknowledge that, and he looked
on in something like amazement while she
carefully removed the insect to the brim of
her hat.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

It is not intended to be an ornament. I
must take it home to Mary ; she will enjoy) r
it so."

Vivian's mind being much exorcised, and
having been for days, nay weeks, dwelling
somewhat morbidly on one subject, found
the ambiguous sentence rather difficult to
digest ; so he said vaguely, while he strove
to find his way back to the line he had lost —

Has she — has she any other peculiar
fancies ? "

Oh yes ! Butterflies, moths, ants,
spiders, insects of all kinds. She raves
about them. Hunts them from unheard-of
places ; gloats over them all equally. Whenever
I see a choice morsel, I always think
of Mary."

Choice morsel ! " reiterated Vivian, still
forcing his mind against its will to follow
suit,

Kate looked at him, discovering a peculiar
and unlooked-for meaning in his impressive
accents. Then she laughed, a low sweet,

delicious laugh that seemed to enforce one
to join her.

You never did suppose ? Oh yes, I
can see by the aversion in your face that
you did. No, I declare she does eat them.
"What a ridiculous mistake ! Don't deny it,
please ! "

Since you are enjoying it so, I have no
objection to accept the blame."

Forgive me for laughing ! Dell always
has told me what a wild talker I am. Xow,
had I said ' specimen ' instead of ' morsel,'
your ears might have been opened to a suggestion
of entomology."

You see," said Vivian, haltingly, " I am
unaccustomed to meet young ladies who

have pursuits "

Then both laughed. This time palpably
at his embarrassment.

I'll help you out of the difficulty," said
Kate, gleefully. " You could easily have
turned the tables on me. You should have
treated the matter scientifically, as Doctor

Reilly would. You should attempt most
learnedly to show how irrational it is to
ignore certain articles of food, because we
do not understand them, and so on. You
should always pretend to take the upper
hand, and to know more than the person
to whom you are talking. Although in my
case there is no immediate necessity to put
yourself to much trouble on that account."

All this was most unfavourable to Vivian's
frame of mind. He saw clearly he could
not deal with Kate in this light mood.
Perhaps — well, perhaps fate was in his
favour — perhaps it would be indiscreet at
the present time if he could compass his
design. Yet how his heart yearned to
speak out ! But if he must be frivolous,
he would make the attempt. And he did.
But anything more awkward could not be
conceived ; for he was not accustomed to
use his mind absolutely at his will, and he
was too self-absorbed to play with words.

Still there was no want of cordiality

between these two, for Kate chatted on and
seemed to be unconscious that he spoke
little. She proposed taking the road that
led down by the river.

Because then, you know, I am near
home, and mamma detests my being faraway.
She likes to be able to get a glimpse
of me by watching for a while from the
verandah. You know there is a capital
straight path for some distance on our side
of the river. And it's so safe there. She
likes that."

"Yes, naturally'' said he, somewhat
gloomily.

Now, Mr. Seymour, I'm going to say
good-bye, because — I'm sure you are homesick,
say what you may. And — and — I
can give mamma your kind regards and —
compliments, if you will, and save you all
the agony of leave-taking."

She spoke hurriedly, the tone denying
the lightness of her words, she put out her
hand, and he took it mechanically.

I am not going, however," he said. " I
am capable of enduring my own agony, and
I should not think of treating your mother
so ungratefully as to leave her without a
word."

Then they rode on slowly.

You are always in advance," he said.
"You seem impatient "

"You seem very much inclined to find
fault," she said, playfully. " I don't come
out to prowl like a beast of prey among
ruins at moonlight. I should be a second
Una, and have my lion instead of my little
gentle Ajax, if that were my choice."

Whatever might be your taste, the part
you played would be perfection," said he,
impulsively.

Ah ! that is to make up for your rudeness
about my impatience," she said. " What
nonsense we are talking ! "

"People always do talk nonsense when
they are afraid," said he, sententiously.

"Afraid?"

Yes. As we are now — to talk sense."

On this, Kate was still for a while. She
could afford to relax her efforts to keep up
the licit ball of conversation she had chosen,
because she was nearing home, and felt that
the danger had passed. So they were both
silent, though hardly conscious that it was
so until they were in view of the Glade
gardens. Then he said suddenly —

How silent you are ! "

"And you too. You made me so.
Silence, I suppose, is like yawning — infectious.
Well, one can't help having
nothing to say."

That's not my difficulty ; I have too
much."

Dell says it's always better not to speak
more than half your mind. So you are on
the safe side, Mr. Seymour."

I wish I were," he said, earnestly. " Is
it not strange how any association of ideas
will invariably aid us to bring back the
prominent subject in our minds ? ''

Well, I don't know," said Kate, thoughtfully
; "it sometimes diverts us. Just as
one must think of horses or salts when
Epsom is mentioned. It's a matter of
association, but it rather leads one off the
point of Epsom."

You could make anything diverting, I
believe. I am not unmindful of the radiance
you threw over my dull life a week or two

ago."

Oh, oh ! Let us always bury unpleasant

memories."

That will be one of my loveliest and
best until the end of time."

Oh, Kate ! It is well that the Glade
gardens have an occupant, for this last
stronger thrust had startled her self-control,
and left her wordless, helpless ; only the
bright glow in her face and the drooping
eyelids showing that, now the battle had
ended, the conqueror was showing signs of
weakness.

Now he felt brave enough, but now was

too late ; for here advanced Mary on seeing
them. Her calm clear eyes rested upon
Kate and Seymour ; when he noted the look,
he saw at once she observed her sister's excitement.
And was he right ? Did he detect
a gleam of tenderness in those cold eyes ?
Did he detect a subtle warmth in the touch
of the hand she had placed in his ? Sympathy
is so instinctively recognized by us
all that we hardly ever fail to discover it
where it exists. Kate had forgotten all
about the caterpillar. It was parading with
serpentine motion the brim of her green felt
hat, and, as it advanced, Mary discerned it,
and seized the instant for relieving her sister.
She put out her hand quietly, saying —

Be still, Kate. Let me take it tenderly
How thoughtful you are ! Did you know,
Mr. Seymour, that this beautiful creature
is really a rarity ? Let me call your attention
to these curious diagonal stripes. You
can observe here in the sunshine all the
peculiar beauties "

And Kate's great eyes were open now.
What was the mystery in their soft misty
depths ? They were like the eyes of one
suddenly awakened from a mesmeric trance.

Lookers-on are said to see most of the
game, yet four people spent a very pleasant
time under the oak trees, chatting gaily and
easily as people do, veiling their troubles
if not forgetting them. Who could expect,
witnessing this pretty sylvan scene and
hearing the gay shreds of talk, dream there
was an undercurrent of tragedy here ?
The group dispersed ; the last to join it was
the first to leave. Mrs. Elmore went in on
some domestic concern. Vivian must perforce
make his conventional adieu. Mary,
with calm benignity, kept close beside her
sister ; and when the heavy door grated back
upon the huge hinges, she unobtrusively
moved away, and left Kate standing on the
lawn, a statue of mute despair.

She looked composed enough, pale enough
now. She stood still, her hands falling

together tightly clasped. There was no one
to see her. She knew it, and that was why
she became sensible of the pain that had been
gradually forcing itself upon her. Now the
horror of it, the shame of the strong feeling
that possessed her, wrung her impulsive soul.
If she could have annihilated every atom of
her consciousness at that moment, she would
have rejoiced. As it was, a minute's bitter
antagonism, a rapid movement out of sight,
and down sank the dainty proud head
between her hands — down she must sink on
her knees, lower still till her face rested on
the dewy grass, crushed by the weight of her
own self contempt.

Oh, was it not contemptible to surrender
one's self to lose all one's force, to feel it all
absorbed in another being ? What was his
going or coming to her ? Was she not set
aside from such things ? Other girls were
free to associate with him, to walk and talk
with him, to listen to his charmed voice,
to delight in his manly beauty, to rejoice in
his love.

But for her such dreams were sin ! Had
not all nature whispered to her of the
delights of his love ? Not a breeze but had
murmured it, not a ripple but had lulled her
in the dream. All beauty — all that was
high and pure and true — now belonged to
her love. The glory of a sunset, the poetry
of storm, the familiar scents of flowers, the
pathetic song of a bird, would all have an
added meaning in them now. All things
beautiful and all things good were part of
Vivian Seymour now, or part of love that
played such strange havoc in her soul.

CHAPTEE V.

TO STAY THE WHIRLWIND."

Although Mrs. Elmore Had perfect confidence
in her daughters, her mind was
thoroughly disturbed about them. Her
conscience told her that it had been inconsistent
in the last degree to permit any
intimacy with men like these ; and yet so
naturally had the friendship grown, that
she was painfully conscious of having a
very natural pleasure in such intimacy
herself.

Her hint to Reilly had not had the desired
effect ; there had been no fewer visits on that
account. Still, she felt she could take no
further action now ; for had not Seymour
gone ? and was not the doctor going ?

Adelaide, too, was to leave this week. The
whole party would be broken up, and her
trouble in the matter would be over.

But Mrs. Elmore could not get over one
present annoyance that was fresh in her
memory. Had not Kate and Vivian Sey-mour
been out riding together ? Now, it
was a positive offence to her that such a
girl as Kate should be seen careering over
the country to be picked up by any chance
acquaintance — she quite forgot there was
no such thing as chance acquaintance.
She had been trained in a different school of
manners herself, and she felt she ought
never to have given way in the matter of
the pony.

She did not approach the subject as an
important one ; she thought that injudicious.
Her speech had just the common tone when
she said, " Kate, my love, I want you to
give up riding for a little while — just to
oblige me. You have plenty of interests
that will answer for a time — the garden

requires a deal of attention just now, and
I should be glad to see you trying to fill
Adelaide's place a little."

I should never do that ! However, 111
try to make some of those dishes you were
so fond of, for all our sakes. But why do
you want me to give up riding ? "

I have been nervous lately — about Dell
going. For your riding it was always
dangerous "

Nonsense ! you old darling. Nothing
will ever happen to such a scapegrace as I.
I can understand your anxiety for a saintlike
Mary, or for such a paragon of all the
virtues as Dell."

My dear Kate, seriously I must ask you
to give up riding for a time."

Now, a remarkable thing happened. Kate,
with all her sportive ways, was thoroughly
good-tempered ; but now, quite unaccountably,
she felt angry. She twitched her
handkerchief impatiently, and the colour

mounted in her face.
vol. ii. 24

"You may as well be candid, mamma.
I'm not afraid to hear anything you have to
say. I can see you haven't given me the
true reason. Although I am not given to intellectual
pursuits, I am not a fool ! You
are annoyed because I happened to meet
Mr. Seymour. Surely you don't think I had
arranged to meet him ? I have been called
alarmingly honest.' Are you going to doubt
my word now, when I say the meeting was
accidental ? "

During all the hours that had elapsed
since that interview, this girl's mind had
dwelt with various emotions upon each
word, each glance, each incident. She was
fully aware, now it was over, what that
strain had been to her. She knew she was
nearer now to temptation than she could
possibly have imagined herself a few months
ago. But, proud in herself of her ability to
defend herself even against her own heart,
she could not bear the faintest aspersion ou
her discretion.

u Hush, Kate ! " said her mother, sadly and
reproachfully " I could not doubt you.
You are right in one way ; but I wanted t< i
spare your feelings."

My feelings ? " cried Kate.

You misconceive me again. You have
done nothing wrong, because I permitted it.
It is to my shame that you should be seen
galloping over the country — like — like a
highwayman "

One of Kate's ringing laughs interrupted
her, and it brought back Kate's good-humour.


Unattended," continued Mrs. Elmore,
gravely, " and by such men as Colonel
Bathurst and Mr. Seymour."

Oh, mamma dear, it is time we became
consistent. Of what earthly consequence
can it be what ideas Mr. Seymour forms of
us, or of our ways ? As you have often said,
we stand outside.' I am quite prepared
for the position. The colonel is a very
charming man, but let him and his nephew

sink into insignificance. They are not going
to disturb us."

Kate's tone was grand and disdainful.
Mrs. Elmore was easily impressed, and she
loved much. She owed it to this self-reliant
girl to tell the truth, and she would do so.

Your common sense, my dear' she said,
is, I confess, seldom at fault. We should
not allow the opinion of any stranger to
interfere with our proceedings. But I was
weak enough to be annoyed by the consideration
that Doctor Eeilly would disapprove
and wonder at my permitting you to
run such risks. He is a link to my past
life, Kate. That, perhaps, is why "

Let that alone ! He is gone. We are
not to be judged by common rules nor
common arguments. Did you tell him so ? "

Of course, I gave him to understand that
we had weighty reasons for our seclusion."

And that we had agreed to make the
best of our lives, depending entirely upon our

own resources."

"Yes."

And that, thanks to you, good sweet
mother, we succeed pretty fairly." Then she
stooped and kissed her mother's forehead,
and they were happy again. " And what
did he say to it all ? "

He ? oh ! " Mrs. Elmore suddenly remembered
what he had said on the occasion.
And Kate was so honest and so quick that
she could not hope to deceive her. " I cannot
tell you, child," she said, quietly.

Ah, I see. Now, that's the way to treat
me. I think I can pretty well guess what
he did say."

Mrs. Elmore thought not. Her expression
was sad and thoughtful as Kate went
on, a radiant smile upon her bright face as
she allow her fancy scope.

Yes. He said it was a dreadful handful
for one woman to have, and that you'd never
be able to manage it ; that we misfit a ^ as
well be allowed to go our own way as not ;
that, in fact, you were giving yourself useless

trouble in attempting to stay the whirlwind
»

Hold your tongue, Kate ! " cried Mrs.
Elmore, putting up her hand.

The figure of speech so distractedly reminded
her of one he had used that she did
not like it. He had quoted Scott's line —

Go fetter flame with flaxen band."

And this close guessing was too distressing
to dwell upon.

# # *

I can't believe that Dell has gone. Only
yesterday ! "

Mary was the speaker. She paused after
the words, and looked in Kate's face. The
tears had rushed into the eyes of that impetuous
girl as she met the glance.

You need not remind me of it ; it seems
that we have been parted for months already.
Good heavens ! how cold you are, Mary ! I
noticed you this morning when mamma was
struggling through her letter, and you were

positively calm — comfortably calm. /
couldn't have spoken for the world."

Yes, dear ; and for very much less than
the world, I assure you," replied her sister.
with a tinge of sarcasm. " It was because
I saw mamma's condition that I controlled
myself; it was because she found it so difficult
to speak that / found it — well — even
possible to speak cheerfully. AVould it have
been better, do you think, if we had all
wept together ? "

"It has been the first parting," answered
Kate, slowly, and quite ignoring her sister's
words. " I felt as if I should choke every
time I glanced round the table. When can
you remember one of us being absent at
breakfast ? "

"That's just one of those things we ought
never to make into a regret. We certainly
have had exceptional good fortune — not one
of us has ever been ill, for instance ; we are
all blest with sufficient "

Oh, spare me the list of our advantages!

I am tired to death of them," exclaimed
Kate, impatiently.

Don't say that, dear ; it seems like sacrilege
to our mother."

I never mean anything against mamma,"
Kate cried, warmly ; " I consider her perfect
— absolutely 'perfect. But I cannot, and
will not, pretend to what I do not feel. It
is true, there are advantages ; but when you
come to estimate them, what are they ? We
have ample means ; we are healthy in mind
and body, but possessing sufficient intelligence
to know that these things, which by
some may be regarded as the essence of
prosperity, are to us but disadvantages that
make our state only the more difficult to
bear."

You speak in riddles, Kate. Are you
oroin^ to tell me I should find ill health or
poverty easier than my present physical
comfort ? "

"I can't answer for you ; you are fond of
comfort. We are constitutionally different.

Now, if I were disabled by disease or
accident, I should be perfectly willing —
should be constrained by every law of reason
to abandon natural impulse ; but, according
to the law of nature, I should have none of
the impulses I have now. Or, if poverty is
to be considered, whv, if I were to be
obliged to work for my living, I should be
glad" Here the girl stopped in her warm
harangue and laughed. " Don't look so
horrified, Mary ; I speak only for myself.
I really should rejoice if I personally had to
work for my bread ; my life would then have
a motive."

Have you mistaken yourself, Kate, or
have we mistaken you ? You have ever
been the gayest of us all, the wildest, most
careless, the light of the household. What
has happened to you ? You suddenly
become more serious than either of us
in the contemplation of the lives we are
destined to live. AYhat has happened to
you \ "

There was no reply. The question evoked
another in Kate's heart, and set her rebellious
pulses throbbing with a fear she
dared not own. Herself, her life, the
potentialities of her being, were so enigmatical
that it was hardly possible she should
know what possessed her.

What is wrong with you, Kate ? " repeated
her sister.

I do uot know," she said, thoughtfully.
"You, Mary, have studied Nature, and she
has repaid you ; that is why you are so calm
and content. Perhaps I am backward in
learning. Will Nature grant me your calm,
and make me content with a life which is
the nearest approach to nothingness — unmeaningly
prolonged ? "

I am certainly calm," replied Mary,
with a half checked sigh ; but she did not
repeat the word " content' " It has been
one of the principal aims of my life to becalm,
and it is pleasant to know that I have
succeeded. And, Katie, I trust that I shall

always succeed, even at the risk of being
considered unfeeling by my sister."

I said cold, Mary, not unfeeling ; you
know I do not think that. Oh, it is maddening:
to one who craves for movement —
for action." Here, with one of her ligtfit
bewitching laughs, she checked her seriousness,
and went on merrily, " I am to be a
caged tigress, I suppose ; that is my role.
I should do too much damage free."

Free, dear, you know we can never be.
Can't you derive some consolation from the
fact mamma has so often put before us —
that if we miss the stronger interests in life,
we also miss the greater pains ? "

Mary, there is no satisfaction in anything
! " exclaimed the girl, with an emphasis
that startled and pained her sister. " But
not a word to mamma — not a word of that
sort."

It is the object of my life to spare her,"
said Mary, solemnly.

Mrs. Elmore had gone to her room alone,

with Adelaide's letter in her hand. There
was a sting of disappointment in it, and,
scrupulously conscientious as this woman
was, she could but admit it to herself. Still,
she argued that her own overstrained anxiety
was alone to blame ; for here was the first
letter she had ever received from her
daughter, and, accustomed as they were to
confidential speech, the message could but
appear strange. The fault was, of course, all
with herself ; so she would read the letter
again.

11 Grimslade.

My darling Mother,

I am here at last, and quite impatient
to find my work — so impatient am I
that I would commence at once if I could.
Mr. Wallis was not at the station, but I soon
found my way to the vicarage. I almost
felt glad my first step was an independent
one. Everything is so strange — you will
smile at my simplicity — for everything is

bound to be strange to me. I believe the
taste for the world must be an acquired one ;
am I right ? These few words are for your
present satisfaction as to my safety. I shall
have time to write tomorrow. I can't send
you my love, because it is with you always.

Your own

Dell."

And why was Mr. "Wallis not at the
station ? He ought, under the circumstances
she had explained he certainly ought, to
have been there ; or, being unable to go himself,
could he not have sent a deputy?
Adelaide found everything strange. This
was inevitable. But the allusion to the
world being an acquired taste could only
mean that it was at present distasteful. It
was — yes, it undoubtedly was — a thoroughly
unsatisfactory letter. The last sentence
only seemed to belong to Dell.

My own Dell," she murmured, and shut
her eyelids close, resolved to subdue the

rising tears. It became her to l>e brave,
who had so brave a child. " My own Dell,
whom I can neither guide nor help now !
She does not seem to be mine now."

It was not as though she had gone as
young women ordinarily go away from home,
to spend a happy time with pleasant people.
Adelaide had no bright, cheerful messages to
send. She had gone out alone, out among
strangers to work. Was it for this, the
mother's heart cried out, was it for this the
girl had been trained to be what she was ?

Then she walked downstairs and heard
Kate's delicious voice practising an anthem.
She saw Mary's graceful form enveloped in
her long fur-lined cloak — for the mornings
were getting cool now — saw her pause for a
moment and bow.

And there, just entering the gate, she saw
Bathurst and Eeilly. There was some hesitation
on the side of the gentlemen, but she
Mary — walked on under the oaks, to all
appearance forgetful of them.

Mrs. Elmore stood at the window unseen.
and watched. The men talked for, perhaps,
a minute ; then Reilly, with a wave of the
hand, turned on the left and followed Mary,
while Bathurst walked towards the house,
with the lagging footstep and slightly bent
head that betoken preoccupation of mind.
A suspicion crossed her thoughts, although
of what, it would have been hard to say.
She shuddered.

I shall fancy I hear what they are saying
next. Anxiety unhinges my mind. My
withdrawal from the world makes me, like
Dell, incapable of comprehending it."

You are an early visitor' she said, when
Bathurst and she met.

Xow, this was obviously a question,
although he merely replied, " Yes. And
what a chill morning ! May I ask if you
have yet heard of your daughter's arrival
at Grimslade ? n

She has sent a scrap of a note for what
she calls my satisfaction."

"It is certainly for mine," said he,
politely.

Did you call so early for that reason ? "
asked she.

Now, this was a question that could not
be so easily evaded, and, like a gentleman,
he gave an answer.

Yes, and no, Mrs. Elmore. I should
certainly have called for that reason at some
later hour in the day, but the fact is Eeilly
leaves for Windermere this morning, and I
came to help him through his farewells'

And where is he ?" she inquired, gravely.

He waylaid Miss Mary in the garden,
and — he did not wish to miss her."

Was it not your intention to assist him
through his farewells ? " she asked.

And there was a bitter tone in her voice,
caused by her anguish, that affected Bathurst
slightly. He felt a trifle like a traitor.

Reilly is a thorough good fellow," he
said incidentally ; " I'm sorry he's going.
But nothing lasts — at least nothing that's

pleasant. It's our difficulties that stick so
close to us."

Ah, but you are by nature a very
Sybarite," said she, with a wan smile.
Why, Kate, how short your practice has
been this morning ! "

Kate came into the room languidly. " I'm
tired of playing to the empty rooms. I wish
I could people them according to my own
pleasure. Ah, colonel ! I did not see you."

She shook hands with her visitor, and
ventured on no further explanation. She
appeared now to be in the brightest possible
spirits, and talked with even more than her
usual vivacity. Neither of her listeners was
blind to the fact that she had made the

effort.

She is naturally depressed about her

sister, and won't allow her mother to see it,"
he thought.

How odd Kate has been lately ! A change
seems to be settling upon us all," thought
Mrs. Elmore. " Now she is overdoing it in

vol. ii. 25

her desire to appear cheerful. It is the mistake
people mostly make when they are
acting."

They sat talking for some time, and insensibly
the older people followed Kate's
lead. They were laughing almost against
their will at one of her keenest repartees,
when Mrs. Elmore awoke to the fact that
half an hour had elapsed since the colonel
had arrived, and that Mary and Reilly were
still absent.

At what time does Doctor Reilly's train
leave ? " she asked.

"We — we really ought to be going now.
I think he must have forgotten ; I myself
had forgotten," he added, with a playful
signal of reproof to Kate, " and I can forgive
him. Cannot you ? With your permission,
Mrs. Elmore, I will look him up."

Don't go, colonel," said Kate. " Here
they come. I had a glimpse of a hat, and
that must really mean the rest of the
costume. "

Is a man nothing more than a tailor's
dummy in your estimation ? My clear young
lady, you should give us credit for a little
more personality."

In another minute Eeilly entered the
room alone. His bearing to Mrs. Elmore's
eyes was suggestive of exultation kept under
restraint. Bathurst recognized that his
manner was more free and spontaneous than
was natural, and concluded that he, like Kate,
was in reality depressed and out of tone.

I have allowed time, the proverbial
enemy, to steal a march on me," said Reilly.
Mrs. Elmore, forgive a hasty adieu. I start
to-day for home. An expectant mother
awaits her only son. I have literally only
time to say good-bye, and to thank you
once more for extending so much kindness
to my unworthy self."

Not unworthy, I hope," she answered,
with that soft pathetic smile of hers. " Butin
speaking to me of your mother, Doctor
Reilly, be sure you make her understand

that — that my peculiar circumstances have
prevented me from showing you that kindness
which is in my heart to you. And, for
your father's sake, I wish it had been possible
to make you as welcome as I could
wish "

Not another word, Mrs. Elmore," said
Eeilly, taking her hand. " I understand,
and, what is more, I appreciate your kindness
the more thoroughly because I appreciate
you. — Miss Kate, say something kind at
parting — do say something that will take the
sting out of your past satire."

Good-bye, Doctor Eeilly," the girl answered,
with an affectation of extreme melancholy,
" good-bye. I trust you will not
deserve the sting of the next insect that
molests you. However, you have always an
antidote on hand in the shape of counter-irritation."


Mrs. Elmore herself accompanied the gentlemen
to the porch, where they lingered
for another minute in talk, and then hurried

away. Was it only her morbid fancy ? Did
not Eeilly turn and pause for a moment,
and take a survey of the house, almost as
though he sought some signal I

o o o

Wrong ! of course she was wrong ; for
when she returned to the morning-room, there,
beside Kate, was Mary, looking quite unconcerned
and fresh and rosy from her walk.

You were a long time saying good-bye
to Doctor Eeilly, Mary' she observed.

Say rather, mother dear, that he was a
long time saying good-bye to me."

There is no difference," Mrs. Elmore
said, impatiently. " How was it ? "

The slight colour, so unusual in Mary's
cheeks, deepened ; but she answered coolly
enough, " We strolled along, chatting. He
seemed to forget till we were coming in
that there was a train due at 11.30."

The tone was indifference itself; even her
mother felt that she owed a word of conciliation
for her base suspicion.

"Yes, yes," she said hazily; "he is very

like what his father was when I knew him.
Not so handsome, but quite as nice — very-nice."


But not quite nice enough to eat — eh,
Mary ? " said Kate, laughing. "Oh, why
will not somebody invent a better adjective
for common use than ' nice ' ? It is so
mean, so poor ; it implies so little that the
implication almost amounts to nothing.
Besides, it is applied to everything, from
your sauce up to your prime minister.
Your use of that stupid word, mamma,
comes of your previous knowledge of ' Vanity
Fair.' I verily believe if I heard any one
call me ' a nice girl ' "

Both ladies laughed.

I suppose you think that nobody
would be lunatic enough to think me nice.
Well "

She stopped abruptly, and coloured uneasily
; so did her mother. Mary made
no such sign ; she resumed the thread of
the discourse calmly.

The word is quite comprehensive enough
for me, although I am not limited to a
choice of adjectives. Doctor Beilly has not
only proved entertaining, considerate, and
unselfish, but thoroughly agreeable and instructive."


' Not only amusing, but instructive,' as
the newspapers say," put in Kate, with
pretentious gravity.

You need not laugh," said Mary, who
had passed over the embarrassment of the
situation. " He has taught me more of
science, and more especially of physiology,
than ever I knew before," concluded she,
with a gravity untinged by humour.

CHAPTEE VI.

THE GLADE IS PARADISE."

Mrs. Elmore's heart leaped at the sight of
Adelaide's second letter. She could hardly
keep her voice steady as she commenced to
read it. It never once occurred to her that
the girls should be unaware of their sister's
movements, or of the kind of life she was
about to lead.

After affectionate greetings, the letter
went on —

' I have grave doubts as to its bein<r
wise to foster a love of beauty, because if
I had no delight in charming shapes, colours,
lights, and shades, I should not suffer the
positive discomfort that real ugliness causes
me. Now, all this preamble goes to prove

that Grimslade is not only woefully ugly,

but abominably dirty. Compared ^vith it
the Glade is Paradise

There, Kate, yon hear that ? This is
a glimpse of the outside world you wished
to "

Kate put her hand upon her mother's
unoccupied one. She was not ready with
her usual capricious retort.

f I cannot give you systematic accounts.
I shall simply speak of everything to you
in the light in which it strikes me. My
errors may be the result of my ignorance.
Mrs. Wallis appears to be a very singular
woman. If she is common and not rare,
I am sorry for humanity. She paints her
face a bright red in parts, and an unnatural
white in others. She looks young at a
first glance — but it must be only the first.
Her manner is distant and cold to me.
She behaved absurdly with her husband
at breakfast this morning. Mr. Wallis is
reorganizing his staff of district workers,

and I am to serve my apprenticeship in
that way, in order to get some knowledge
of the people among whom I am to work.
I must admit to you that I am disappointed
in a measure, and I think the feeling is
inevitable under such circumstances as mine.
Given a little of that precious allotment
of day and night we are pleased to call
time, and I shall find many mysteries
solved, and puzzling inconsistencies turned
into commonplace facts. I started with
delight, with the prospect of beginning
somewhere with Mr. Hazel, the curate. He
impressed me as a very simple-minded man
who wished to talk, but could find nothing
to say. At last, with evident timidity, he
hinted that I should not find the vicarage
a pleasant home. Finding I took the information
passively, he went on — " The truth
is that Mrs. Wallis is desperately jealous
of her husband, and in his position it is
next to impossible to avoid situations that
look suspicious." I replied coldly that I

would rather not hear of the difficulties of
the vicar's private life. " I am here upon
business that will occupy my whole time
I have no interest outside that." He
looked at me very oddly and said no more."

Oh, what fun I would have ! w broke
out Kate. " I would give that horrid
woman cause to remember me."

Hush, Kate ! you don't know what you
are saying. The meanest, most indelicate
action "

Don't be serious ! I'm not there. I only
meant I would frighten her. Surely no lady
would be capable of trying to encourage "

No, no, no ! " exclaimed Mrs. Elmore,
hastily passing on to the letter, and reading
its concluding words.

Dell's lines have not fallen in pleasant
places," said Mary. " What are you going
to do, mamma ? "

Do ? " echoed Mrs. Elmore, vaguely, the
troubled lines appearing on her brow, that
made the sweet face look so careworn and

sad. " Do ? She lias just gone. I would
not have had her go. She will know better
than I when she has time to "

She cannot," said Mary, decisively. " It
would never occur to her that she should
not stay. She ought not to stay — certainly
not there. And she can go nowhere else."

Indeed, I think you are right. But
understand, I don't want to take an unfair
advantage. Any position would have been
awkward for her. Another week may bring
things to a different termination."

That I can quite believe," said Mary,
emphatically.

Poor Mrs. Elmore ! She felt herself
thoroughly unfit to take any movement at
all. Things were changed. With all the
chickens under her wing, and no interlopers,
she had been mistress of the situation. But
every day since that singular accident to
Vivian Seymour she had felt her authority
slipping out of her hands. She was painfully
aware that Mary seemed more fit to grasp

the case than she herself. Again, this confident
tone was new to her from either
daughter. They had looked to her for
advice : now Mary gave it.

I shall let the matter rest." said Mrs.
Elmore, in a dignified manner.

It is not safe," murmured Mary ; but
she said no more.

Certainly this girl had most peculiar
characteristics. Gentle and quiet as a dove,
and vet, as her mother was beginning to
recognize, stronger than either when her
power asserted itself.

Mrs. Elmore was very unhappy. Like
all people who depend entirely upon themselves,
and accept no other guidance, she
began to feel the disturbing doubt of her
own action, that was in itself almost a conviction
of wrong. She did not tell herself
that it was morbid conscientiousness. No ;
the fact was she had been deplorably weak
in allowing Adelaide to go. She seemed
to feel a shadowy fear that Mary, who had

hitherto been so passive, would soon be able
to take all power from her. And just before
her was Kate, the warm impulsive woman,
with the child-nature, in all the overpowering
charm of her beauty. Here was another
difficulty. She had fallen into mute dreamy
ways, and only occasionally started out with
her sharp play of words and childlike mirth.
Of course, she must be a woman one day.

With a lone-drawn sistfi the mother's
meditations were interrupted. It was by
a low deep voice and a strong tender hand.
Mary leant upon her shoulder.

We must take care of you. You are
looking ill. You have taken care of me
quite long enough ; it's time, mother dear,
I should be of some use to you. You can
trust me, can't you ? Look into my eyes ! "
And the girl came round in front, and fixed
those calm still orbs upon her mother's almost
shrinking face. " Why should you torment
yourself about us ? You can trust us all. You
know Dell; you can have no fear for her."

You — you, Mary " began Mrs.

Elmore, hesitating.

I have no fear. You mistake me. I
only wish to prevent annoyance to her.
Nothing can harm Dell."

Oh, Mary ! ' : cried the mother, bursting
into tears ; " how I wish I could feel the
confidence you feel in yourselves ! r

You should. You have made us what
we are. There is not one of us who would
not die for you. There is not one of us whoever
had a faithless thought. And remember,
no one can do us a real injury. We can
only injure ourselves."

It was unusual for Mary to speak so
warmly. Kate woke up to the fact, and
from her reverie at the same moment. She
started from her seat, aware that her absent
mind had been sinning.

That is true ! " she cried, and her voice,
when she was touched, thrilled with an
indescribable pathos ; " it is all true. We
would rather die than deceive you, or pain
you. Trust us — and be at rest."

There was hardly a demand for this excitement,
for those glittering unshed tears.
Mary noted her sisters absorbed enthusiasm.
It has more than one meaning," she
thought.

Then Kate and her mother wept for a
moment in sweet unison. And after the
caress, there was a pause. The quiet of reaction
set in, and Mary was gratified.

I think it would not be advisable to
mention any details about Dell to Colonel
Bathurst when he calls," said Mrs. Elmore,
presently, having doubts of Kate's discretion
on this point.

It will make things no better, and it
cannot possibly make them worse, whatever
we may say," said Mary, with quiet persistence.
" Still, mother dear, we shall
obey you, of course."

Poor mother ! The ambiguous sentence
in its confusing reserve was hardly soothing
to her.

CHAPTER VII.

WORLDLY EXPERIENCE.

Adelaide spent very little time at the
vicarage, and when there she generally
retired to her own room to read or write,
in preference to remaining with Mr. Wallis
and his wife. His cringing humility of
manner displeased her much, and the frequent
caresses that took place between the
ill-suited pair displeased her still more.
Having so many reasons for wishing to be
alone, excuses were not difficult to find. Soin
spite of Mr. Walls's importunities, she
managed to spend every spare hour in
solitary confinement.

From day to day she never looked upon

a face she loved, nor exchanged one familiar

vol. ii. 26

word. Night after night she sat up reading
until midnight, or even later, in order that
she might not have to pass long dreary hours
in sleeplessness.

She could not but admit to herself that
she had fallen into a most unfortunate
position, for she soon found the hard-working
little curate had merely hinted at the
eccentricities of Mr. Wallis and his wife. He
had meant well, she saw that now, and was
kind accordingly ; for she infinitely preferred
to go to him for instructions than to Mr.
Wallis, who did not converse on parochial
affairs, but who rather avoided them, and
talked in a vaguely complimentary way
that was quite unpleasant to her.

His manner was always obsequious, that
was imitating ; sometimes paternal, that was
offensive ; and sometimes affectionate, that
was revolting. Adelaide's cold brief replies
did not discourage him. He would wait
about the hall to speak to her in passing.
One morning she saw that he intended to

accompany her. Experiencing that strange
shudder of repulsion which comes of instinctive
dislike, she made an effort to dispose of
her unwelcome companion. She returned
his orreetin^ formally, and then said —

"Mr. Hazel is waiting in the schoolroom.
I must ask you to excuse me."

Hazel is accustomed to wait — ahem ! —
for me,' 1 he said. "And to-day it is my
desire to introduce you to a new district.
Among my multifarious duties I must not
neglect you. It is only right our poor
should see me occasionally by your side.
My presence will prove a protection to
you

Unconsciously Adelaide drew herself a
step farther off.

Indeed, I am perfectly capable of taking-care
of myself," she said, stiffly.

My dear young lady, that might not be
always so. With — hem ! — personal attractions
— such as yours "

Excuse me," she said, abruptly, " nobody

lias once mentioned my personal
attractions but yourself."

This reply, delivered as it was half
angrily, and rather as though she resented
the possession of any " attractions," might
have proved a check to any other man.
But the vicar was not sensitive, and he did
not understand this beautiful, dignified girl
in the least.

No one, however, can be blind to them,"
he said fawningly, with his specious smile.

Her instinctive prejudice was so strong
at this moment that she actually began to
fear this man at her side. Her heart gave
quite a throb of delight as she recognized
Mr. Hazel approaching.

Good breeding may be one thing, and
human nature may sometimes be quite
another. It was so in this case. Adelaide's
courtesy and care for the feelings of others
quite deserted her.

I would prefer to spend the morning
with some one who has sufficient taste to

appear blind," she said, with cold contempt.
I am oroincr with Mr. Hazel."

o o

She g-ave a certain ominous flash from
those expressive eyes, which Mr. Wallis
acknowledged by a smile that was evidently
meant to be seductive.

Good morning, Miss Elmore," said the
timid curate, endeavouring to hide his own
nervousness and his surprise at the same
time. ec I have been waiting to deliver a
message to you, and — and I am fortunate in
meeting you."

I think so too," said Adelaide, kindly.
I am going your way, Mr. Hazel ; " and,
bestowing a passing recognition of the most
indescribable kind upon the vicar, she turned
away.

The poor little man's voice fairly trembled
as he proceeded to state that Mrs. Fumival,
the rich and influential philanthropist of
Grimslade, had expressed a strong desire to
be introduced to the young lady who had
commenced her career so bravely.

How did she know anything about
me ? " inquired Adelaide.

It was I — who spoke of you. Forgive
me, but — knowing how you stand alone
here, and — knowing Mrs. Furnival as I do,
I hope you will forgive the liberty."

Adelaide stopped his halting speech with
such a radiant smile that he felt more
nervous than ever.

Thank you' she said, warmly ; " I shall
be very glad to know Mrs. Furnival."

It was with quite a pleasurable feeling
that Adelaide sought the desired interview.
Her surroundings were altogether of so
repulsive a nature that the mere change
could but be a relief.

As she walked through this part of Grimace,
which was new to her, her spirits rose,
she breathed more freely. Could it be, she
asked herself, that she was appreciating the
clearer atmosphere of this wide, clean street
and the distant glimpse of country \ She

had been reared in the midst of natural
beauty, and she was depressed by the loathsome
ugliness she had found here.

Situated in a prominent position, just
outside the town, stood the mansion in
which Mrs. Furnival resided. Adelaide had
never seen such a place as the interior of
this great house, with its ponderous richness
of decoration, and all its costly surroundings.

She was shown into a spacious apartment,
that appeared to be arranged for the purposes
of a public meeting or concert. Immediately,
however, a servant, in gorgeous
livery, led her to a comfortable library,
where a lady sat writing.

Mrs. Furnival gave a quick glance at her
visitor, saying, " May I ask you to wait ?
I must despatch this letter by the next post.
Be seated, pray."

Adelaide merely bowed. Then, passing
the chair facing the writing-table, she sat
down at a distant window and took up a
periodical.

The lady gave one more rapid glance at
her visitor, and then continued her work.
She was an uncommon woman in every
respect. She was dressed plainly, indeed
carelessly. She wore no ornaments of any
kind. Her brown dress was of ordinary
home-spun cloth, and did not fit her fairly
proportioned figure. She was not sufficiently
well dressed for an imposing woman of
middle age ; one might have taken her to
be a secretary, but not the influential Mrs.
Furnival.

In less than five minutes she had finished
her letter, which was systematically set aside
with others, which she counted before
summoning the gorgeous menial, and directing
that they should be posted at once.
After this she drew her chair near Adelaide,
and said pleasantly, in a rapid sharp way —

I hope you didn't mind waiting ? "

Do not apologize. I have not had
time to discover that I was waiting."

Adelaide put down her book and looked

at the heavily lined face, with its rather
clumsy features arid dark horizontal eyebrows,
with some interest.

You are Mrs. Furnival," she said
politely, after a slight pause.

Yes. Did you take me to be a servant ?"
Her voice was harsh, but very kindly.
There was not a dash of humour in the
question. " Don't mind admitting it ;
people often think so."

*' f I had not formed any opinion."

Ah ! I always form one with my first
glance, though I think it a great advantage
to be able to defer one's conclusions.
I reckoned you up instantaneously."

Adelaide smiled.

That was a very incredulous smile ! I
don't presume to details ; but, although I
did not hear your voice, I saw at once by
your deportment and dress that you were of
a different order from most ladies who
undertake our parish work. I don't think
it shows any great perspicacity to discover

what a woman is when she goes out among
the poor with a bonnet covered with flowers,
lace, and feathers — enough to make a dozen.
To make a digression on this particular
bonnet, I was told that it was French"
It would be impossible to describe the
amount of contempt thrown into that one
word. " Do you happen to know if that is
the style of bonnet worn in France just
now ? "

I have not the slightest idea," said
Adelaide, earnestly.

"Then you deserve the esteem of all
sensible people ; many women know nothing
else ! I don't think I was wrong in my
estimate of you." The lady paused, fixing
her acute light-grey eyes upon her visitor,
and bringing those heavy brows lower in the
process of investigating. " You must have
been subject to exceptional training. Don't
imagine, please, that I blame women for their
interest in French bonnets. Poor things ! if
they're well off, they've little else to interest

them. For myself, I was brought up iu that
abominable age that kept young girls principally
engaged in 'fancy' work. Fancy
work ! It was a singular fancy that invented
it."

We always call it ' lazy ' work, its only
use being to occupy the hands while talking."

"It is play — nothing more. I do not
object to artistic work, for by that means
many a woman can gain an honest livelihood.
It is the vapidity of doing nothing and
making it an occupation that I object to.
It is demoralizing:. You have not been lone;
in Grimslade ? "

"A very short time."

hong: enough to discover whether the
work suits you ? "

I — I hardly know," replied Adelaide
slowly. Then she added with quick enthusiasm,
" But if it were a thousand times
worse than it is, I should do it."

Now Mrs. Furnival smiled. The smile
transformed her face. " I like that," she

said. " But it isn't at all wise. / don't
think you're at all suited to the work."

I shall have to get accustomed to it,
then. I don't suppose any woman could go
into an entirely strange position and feel
herself quite suitable. What I have set
before myself as a duty I shall certainly
perform."

"You need take no pains to assure me
you are not half-hearted ; but I know more
about these things than you do. I have not
your refinement by nature, but I have probably
an equal strength of purpose. Still, 1
found it impossible to do the work. I have
no artistic taste ; I don't think the ho-hest
beauty has much charm for me, but I detest
dirt as much as I love purity. I abhor disorder
just as I appreciate order. Besides, it
is all disappointment. The very minds with
which you come in contact are those that
cannot be influenced by rules which govern
your own. Perhaps I am unsympathetic.
What are you doing ? "

I fear I am at a disadvantage," said
Adelaide, modestly. " There is much illness
at present, I am told, and I can give more
valuable assistance in nursing than anything
else. But having had no experience, I find
my theories sadly at fault. You cannot
learn to nurse the sick entirely from a book,
any more than you can learn to cook from
one. Cooking is my speciality. I know I
could do some good in that direction."

Indeed ? " exclaimed Mrs. Furnival, with
warm interest. " I don't know anything
about it myself, but I do know something
about food, and I know that the poor eat
the wrongs food, and their children don't get
nourished. I have set up — let me see — five
shops in their midst, where they can buy
good brown bread at even a lower price than
they can get the ordinary white loaf." She
stopped and smiled again. " I'm told I am
raining the bakers. I received a deputation
last night. What am I to do ? I offer to
set the bakers on their Ws in this fashion —

Learn to make good brown bread,' I said,
and I will close my shops, or I'll buy your
fittings.' The unfortunate thing is, you
can't help one class without injuring another.
Now, it is the same with the co-operative
stores I am attempting to found. I met
with opposition on all sides, even from the
clergy. 'You would ruin the commercial
interests of the country,' they said. But —
God bless all His creatures — are we to let
our helpless ones starve to keep up the commercial
interests of a country ? " Mrs. Fur-rival
paused oratorically.

Thinking an answer was expected, Adelaide,
with her large grave eyes fixed with
ever-2TOwin£ interest on the strong emotional
face, said, " I really don't think I
ought to give an opinion on politics."

Perhaps you think you don't understand
politics. If you like, I'll teach you in ten
minutes that you do. Why, women understand
the very root and soul of politics.
But they don't know it themselves, and so

the assumption is that they don't understand.
Consider : man is universally trained
to do one thing only, and that one thing well
if he can. "Women (we don't count those
who do not work ; they are in the minority),
whether they are trained or not, have to do
many kinds of work, to perform many functions,
to organize and associate ends and
means. Man, calmly and deliberately, builds
up his house brick by brick ; but when he
has built it, it's no good to him. It's the
woman alone who can govern it. And I
tell you quite seriously — and it is according
to some of the highest authorities too — that
woman was intended to govern it. In my
opinion, the time has come when she will
not be kept out of her position by all the
French bonnets in Europe."

I have read in one of Professor Ruskin's
works "

Ah ! you mustn't think we've quite
arrived at that yet. He is a full century
before his time. Work onions' us for a

while, and you'll see what I see — that it is
utterly hopeless to do anything for the people
of this country while the women live insubordination
and have no power to act.
Why, we take better care of our criminals
than we do of our deserving poor. A great
factory fails here, or a great man retires from
the field of his speculations, glutted. The
men and women who have worked half their
lives — perhaps nearly all their working
years — for the acquisition of this great end
are thrown upon the world — hundreds sometimes
in one small town alone. Have they
no rights, do you think ? "

Oh, it seems to me they surely have."
They have none. You know our politicians
are too much occupied with' foreign
affairs, and the manufacturing of party
cries, and passing — suppose we say ' complimentary
' — remarks upon each other, to
notice such common matters as the housing
of our poor, though they die by hundreds,
or of our workhouses, within the gates of

which our able-bodied paupers tear off their
clothing — don't be incredulous : I am stating
a fact — and our old men and children wait
outside for admission. Do you think if
women had the management of domestic
affairs they would allow this ? Dear me,
Miss Elmore, what am I doing ? I wanted
to see you upon your own especial business."

Go on, pray."

The obvious interest in Adelaide's eyes and
attitude was not to be mistaken.

I wish some of my audiences could be
all like you," Mrs. Furnival said with a
laugh. "I can't help being warm ! If you
knew how I abhor dirt, disease, and hunger !
Such things should not exist. In a properly
organized community they could not exist.
But we can hope for nothing better while
our legislators spend their time upon foreign
policy and fume over immaterial personal
disputes. Home and social questions will
never receive their just share of consideration
until women have some part in the

vol. ii. 27

government of a country in which they
are, unfortunately, in the majority. What
do you think of your first lesson in
politics ? "

Well, I could not venture "

You will soon venture. Every one with
mind to form an opinion should give it. I
am indignant when I hear it said that
women would talk too much to be of any
use ! Why, men," continued Mrs. Furnival,
forcibly — " men are all talk ! How many of
our legislators care for the people, do you
think ? Generally speaking, who does care
for the people — their rights, their wrongs,
their prosperity, or their misery ? Men care
for their reputation as orators, for their consistent
adherence to party, for the vulgar
and common ambition of place. But who,
among the hundreds who attempt to govern,
has that lofty aim, that grand ambition to
benefit the people, to help the man who
cannot help himself, to speak for the man
who cannot speak for himself ? "

I cannot believe in such low desires in
men holding such onerous positions ? "

My dear girl — But you are charmingly
consistent. Perhaps you think I am not,
holding such opinions and living as I do \
1 am obeying the injunctions of my late
husband. He and I held very different
opinions. All my large property after my
death will go to the museum. I, believing
in the actual wants of the people, am
resolved to live as long as possible, and
spend my income my own way. I work
from strong conviction, and not from a spirit
of opposition. He was an earnest man, an
advanced Liberal, and a Nonconformist. He
did not see that in keeping a herd of
servants, and keeping up a palace at unnecessary
expense, he was imitating the
errors of the lords whom he despised. I
bow to his wish. I would not dispense
with an inch of plush on a servant, although
I would not wear it myself."

That is not inconsistent," said Adelaide,

warmly ; "it is simply conscientious."


Mrs. Furnival smiled ; and when she
smiled she was a very lovable woman,
and not an orator.

"It is not every Radical who professes
to believe in equality, who treats men as
though they were his equals. If any one
man requires luxury, then all men require
it. I believe luxury is the ruin of men. I
believe in greater simplicity of life among
the upper and middle classes. As to the
working poor, they are miserable. They
want light, clean houses. They cannot have
them. They want amusement — sometimes,
let it be presumed — and they can't afford
it. They want music they can understand.
They want a short dramatic entertainment
- — not a theatrical speculation arranged
with an eye to the proprietor's profits,
and pandering to depraved tastes. They
want always a bit of common — an open
space — a winter house, or garden, where

they can meet and exchange a word with
a friend without having to drink unlimited
glasses of bad spirits for the sake of society:
"Well, I won't lecture you any more. Ill
wait and see what you discover for yourself."
Adelaide now rose. "Not yet." Mrs.
Furnival arose also, but she continued talking
rapidly. u Now, as soon as you have
done w T with the nursing, come to me. I'll
give you a room for the cooking lessons,
and I'll give you the provisions also.
There's a great deal of talk on the subject
just now — one of our princes has, I see,
been taking it up ; but the real truth is,
these people want food first to cook, and
then they want somewhere to cook it. But
we shall be ready for you some day ; you
are only like Mr. Ruskin, a little before
your time. You are staying at the vicarage,
I believe % I don't know much about Mr.
Wallis." Adelaide thought that might be
as well for Mr. Wallis. " I have, however,
a firm supporter in the rector. Will you
stay and have some lunch with me ? "

"Thank you, I cannot stay. I have
promised to take a whole family under
my charge this morning. There are two
children with the fever, and there is a
baby six weeks old. No one has volunteered
to help, and the mother, a widow,
is too poor to pay for assistance. I shall
do my best ; but I know I should be afraid
to touch the baby — it is so small ! "

Poor creature ! I know the case. The
father died of the fever a week or two
since. Go, and prosper ! Don't let them
want for anything. Apply to me without
reserve. Must you really go ? Well, I am
sorry. You were looking at the ' Modern
Mystic' Take this number ; there is an
excellent article in it that I should like
you to read. By-the-bye, I'll send some
pamphlets and papers on to you, if you
will allow me — things that can be destroyed."

"Thank you. Yes; I shall be glad of
them. I have read the article you mention.
The writer appears to be a very strong

advocate for woman — even in her weakest
aspect."

"Aye; and it is under her weakest
aspect that she is most unjustly treated.
That is a noble essay, Miss Elmore. It is
written by a gentleman whom I have never
seen, although he is a strong supporter of
the claims of our sex to the justice they
deserve. I should like to meet Colonel
Bathurst "

Colonel Bathurst ! "

Yes ; do you know him ? He always
signs initials. That's rio-ht ; take the book.
I'm very sorry you must go."

CHAPTER VIII.

rate's questions.

' I am getting much interested in my work '
(wrote Adelaide), ' although it is not that
which I had designed for myself. At present
I am on the " sick list ; " for there is so much
illness just now that I am assured I can
best help in this way.

' Last week I was introduced to a lady of
enormous wealth, who is much interested in
Grimslade. She gives large sums to the poor,
and has. in fact, dedicated her life to the
people. She quite fascinates me. I don't
think 1 ever heard any one talk so earnestly
and with so much power. We have such long
conversations, and Mrs. Furnival takes strong
interest in my scheme for a school of cookery ;

but she does not approve of me for the
work. " There are thousands of women who
are more suitable for such occupations, and
you are wasted in theme"' she said. It is
perfectly true that I am unsuited. Would
it be wrongs to say I am too sensitive ? All
people must be sensitive to misery, more or
less. I have been amazed at the amount of
bluntness I encounter — a sort of dull apathy
that seems to accept pain as a normal
condition. I hope, in one sense, I am right,
and that there is not so much suffering as
one might expect. On the other hand, such
a hope seems an insult to human nature.
Perhaps I shall get accustomed to all this intime.
My inexperience is sadly against me,
for it is one thing to read of horrors and
another thing to see them. One must possess
literally that faith which removes mountains
before one could move the mass of apathetic
ignorance I have before me. My own
ideas were Arcadian compared to this. Oh,
there is endless ugliness and misery inthis

beautiful world of ours that I never dreamt
of! What has man been about to allow
the splendour of God's gifts to be hidden by
such squalid dens, and humanity itself to
be degraded below the level of the brute ?
Would women, do you think, overlook the
higher beauties of life in the eternal pursuit
of mere possession ? Perhaps Colonel Bathurst
is right — we do require women to
help us to govern our people, as we require
men to treat with foreign powers, and to
fight with them if necessary.

' Enough of the serious ; I am getting
saturated with Mrs. Furnival's ideas. Oh,
Mrs. Wallis is terrible ! Yesterday I spent
the evening in their sitting-room by Mr.
Wallis's request. Can you believe that
she once sat upon his knee, and that he
had his arm round her waist with all the
coolness of native indelicacy ? I can't say I
felt embarrassed. I was sorry for them, and
rather angry'"

Here Mrs. Elmore stopped. She had read

this part very rapidly, and, to say the truth,
felt an awkward desire to stop. But Mary
and Kate would read the letter over andover
again, she knew.

"Go on!" laughed Kate. "What did
she do next ? "

With a slightly raised colour Mrs. Elmore
continued. "' Fortunately, we have had the
advantage of your training. You have
taken care that we should have access to the
best literature, therefore by that I am able
to judge fairly of the manners and customs
of society. It strikes me Mr. Wallis is
paying very heavy interest for his wife's
money.' "

Mamma, she must leave them ! " exclaimed
Mary, in a tone of contemptuous
anger.

She has to deal with the world," said
Mrs. Elmore, quietly. "You have said
yourself she cannot be harmed."

But go on ! "

f Now, for Kate's satisfaction. She knows

I have no time to write to you separately.
Tell her I shall answer six questions only at a
time. She must remember there is no royal
road to knowledge. I have to work out the
answers. First : Yes. 1 suppose a woman
who paints her face could be a lady, but
certainly not when she is painted out of all
imitation of nature, and serves only to
attract vulgar attention ; still, I have a doubt
on the point. Second : I have been in
company with many ladies, at lectures,
meetings, churches. I have had ample
opportunity of satisfying myself that not
one in fifty has what the Frenchman calls
"tusks." It has long been a habit of that
politest of nations to caricature Englishwomen
to a libellous extent. Mouths
variously deform are, no doubt, to be found
all over Europe as well as in England. A
beautiful mouth will always be a rare thing,
because it invariably expresses a beautiful
character. Third : Men are certainly more
agreeable than women — to women. I'm

not sure that all women might find it so.
If this answer is not intelligible, read it
again. Fourth : Yes. On the average, men
are more sincere than women, but they are
not equally refined. Perhaps feminine
delicacy is an enemy to coarse honesty.
Fifth : Oh no ! Colonel Bathurst is greatly
superior to ordinary men.' "

Here Mrs. Elmore dropped the letter in
her lap. " What nonsense can you have
been writing, Kate ? "

The girl shook her head and looked
demure. "I thought I should like to get
some knowledge of the world second hand.
I only asked if most men were as handsome
and as pleasant and as well-bred as the
colonel. And she says ' Oh no ! He is
greatly superior to ordinary men.' Capital !
And she knows, perhaps, three or four ; but
she answers emphatically."

"And I think she is quite right," said
Mrs. Elmore, sedately.

This was the only comment she ventured.

She left the letter on the table, and went
away ; the matter was altogether too unpleasant
for general conversation. She felt
sure that a climax would soon arrive, and
this frivolous, foolish woman would find her
jealousy roused with regard to Adelaide.

Mr. Wallis was unmarried when she knew
him, and she had naturally drawn the
picture of his homestead upon the familiar
lines of her own experience. She knew this
was not the type of woman to expect in a
clergyman's wife, so she could hardly blame
herself for error. Still, the whole thing was
discouraging — everything was discouraging
from first to last. There w T as no future
hope of happiness for those daughters of
hers ; and she knew it. Oh, if they had
only been boys ! But perhaps in that case
they might have proved still more unmanageable
; for they could not have been
kept in seclusion, and they would have
inevitably fallen in love, if only with a milkmaid.


CHAPTER IX.

A BOYISH INDISCRETION.

Haven't seen you for three days, except
at breakfast, Bathurst. But I don't
grumble. I manage to amuse myself."

"Yes, yes," said the colonel, hastily, "I
see that."

"Well, there's nothing like accommodating
yourself to circumstances, I say. By the
way, that's what I was doing the first and
only time I was ever overtaken. It was
after a review at Aldershot. There was
plenty of brandy, I recollect, but no water.
However, I remember mixing a little sherry
with mine, just to soften it ; and that's about
all I do recollect."

"Circumstances did not, however, accommodate

themselves to you," laughed the
colonel, adding soberly, " I believe they
seldom do."

Talk of that, the most extraordinary
thing that ever happened to me — at Hastings
it was — did I ever tell ye my adventure
with Patty Ford ? She was an old love of
mine, but married on this occasion."

For the occasion only ? " asked Bathurst,
with indifference. " Yes — I've heard — of
them all — I think. You are so erratic in your
critics that I get confused. Pardon, there's
Mrs. Grove, who has some communication to
make. I shall be back soon."

The major beguiled the time during his
host's absence in various ways. He looked
at the supplement of the Times in an absent
frame of mind ; he sharpened a pencil, and
drew abnormal outlines of the human countenance
on the margin, uttering an occasional
exclamation when he discovered an
accidental likeness to an acquaintance.

He looked up with the most perfect unconcern

as Bathurst entered the room after
awhile, with rather a grim aspect and an
angry stride.

You look down in the mouth, Bathurst.
Has she refused you ? n

"I'm not in the humour for pleasantries
of that kind. I've just heard that which
is intensely annoying to me — that you
spent yesterday evening in insulting my
maids."

Me ! " exclaimed O'Buncous, starting
from his seat in genuine amazement. "Why.
I never assaulted a woman in my life, except
that laundress I was telling you of."

Hang the laundress ! What do you
call an insult, I should like to know % "

Well, there's many things," began
O'Buncous, in a measured undertone, taking
the colonel literally — " there's many things I
could mention, but " (with a happy flash of
thought) " that's not so much to the purpose
as what you consider an insult. I'm as

innocent of intention, Bathurst, as you arc
vol. ii. 28

yourself ! " And O'Buncous extended his
hands and spread out his capacious chest to
prove his immaculate condition.

Are you going to profess to be so
deucedly innocent that you don't know it's
an insult to kiss a respectable girl against
her will ? "

O'Buncous listened attentively to the
stern sarcastic demand. He showed simply
the warmth of self-defence as he answered
excitedly, " Just the words — the very words a
fool of an old Yorkshire magistrate used to me,
when I kissed the parson's daughter, going-through
a hatfield. I'd got it on the tip of
my tongue to ask him what he was made of,
and whether he had ever kissed a girl. But
one look of him was enough to prove that
he'd forgotten it, if ever he had, and, Bathurst.
I could only pity the poor devil."

This is evasion, O'Buncous ! '*' exclaimed
Bathurst, pacing the room angrily. "You
must be serious. These girls in my house
are under my protection."

All of 'em ? I say, you have got a
handful. "

Can't you see I'm earnest ? " said Bathurst,
getting excited.

Yes ; a precious sight too earnest ! You
remind me to a T of that old muff in Yorkshire.
But, after all, I've no cause to
grumble. The whole affair only cost me a
shilling."

If it cost you no shame, it was a pity,"
said Bathurst, with rising wrath. " These
girls are in my charge, and I insist upon
their being treated with proper respect."

Now, I put it to you, old fellow," said
O'Buncous, in a tender explanatory tone.
Do you think such a thing's new to the
girls ? I've always held it to be a matter of
honour to notice a pretty girl, and they like
it. Though they sometimes make a fuss, they
like it all the same."

That is entirely apart from the question
whether they like it or not. The thing has
unfortunately happened. I am very sorry,

in my own house, O'Buncous, to make anything
unpleasant ; but my honour is at stake.
I can't let the thing pass."

What shall I do ? Do tell me. I'll go
down on my knees to the whole lot ! I
didn't know things were so serious. I'll tell
'em what you like, but I'll swear I won't
say I intended to insult 'em ! ' That,' I
shall say, 'is your grand master's idea of a
man he's known since he was a boy '

It was all very well when you were a
boy "

My heart's as fresh as ever ; I've lost
nothing up to the present time — but the
small of my back. That's wider than it
was, and how the deuce a thing can be
said to be lost when its power is increased
passes my comprehension. It's the same
with the heart. When a man's in love, he's
supposed to have lost his heart, when it's
only increased to an inconvenient size. Ita
poetical licence."

Bathurst here interrupted sternly, " I

wish you would not prevaricate. Mrs.
Grove very properly represented the matter
to me, and, I regret to say, the girl you
favoured with your delicate attention has
been much offended."

Ah ! that's the one with the black hair
and the blue eyes. I'll warrant, now, the
other gipsy that laughed so heartily didn't
complain ! Did she now ? "

Whether she complained or not, Mrs.
Grove has resolved to dismiss her for her
lightness."

Light she is, by George ! though I don't
see why you should dismiss her for it. A
pretty dance she led me before I could catch
her ; and I don't believe I ever should if she
hadn't laughed so much."

I grant she had enough to laugh at,"
said Bathurst, with angry scorn. " An old
man pursuing a girl who might be his granddaughter
— but it is not for her I have any
concern ; it is for the timid, gentle girl who
has been crying her eyes out."

I told her 'twas a pity to spoil 'em, I did
indeed, Bathurst ! " exclaimed O'Buticous,
looking a very picture of dismay, and
shaking his head in mournful despondency
over the whole affair, as though he himself
stood quite outside it.

But not the wildest absurdity on the part
of his " old friend " would have provoked
a smile on the colonel's face just then. His
features were stern and rigid, as he demanded
fiercely that O'Buncous should
have the manliness to go at once and
apologize for his indiscretion in the presence
of Mrs. Grove and himself.

My dear fellow ! " exclaimed O'Buncous,
heartily, "111 do it with the greatest
pleasure. A man only increases his self-respect,
and adds magnanimity to his other
virtues, when he apologizes to a female. I
never did knuckle down to a member of my
own sex. But there "

The colonel was not listening.

CHAPTER X.

THE SECRET IS OUT.

This is an old friend," grumbled Bathurst
to himself, as he reflected on the majors
indiscretions. " When our old friends don't
advance with age, we must either go back
or — cut them."

He began to see that it would be difficult
to get rid of O'Buncous, and yet he would
fain have been clear of him. Altogether
the state of things was perplexing. He was
becoming scrupulous to the last degree, as
it concerned those ladies at the Glade, and
was conscious of an irritating anxiety as to
what O'Buncous might do next. Old friendship,
he was ready to assert, was a snare
and a delusion.

Old friends ! " again grumbled the colonel.
We don't know how to choose friends when
we are young. It's a matter of accident
then whether an acquaintance will end asa
friend or not. I wish he would go ! It's
no use hinting ; I must resort to diplomacy."


Then he dismissed the subject, and reverted
to several unopened letters, with a sigh of
general dissatisfaction.

Ah ! Reilly's hand, or I'm much mistaken.
He wouldn't write if he'd nothing
to say." And he opened the letter.

Dear Bathurst,

I hasten to let you know that I
have made a discovery which will be of as
much interest to you as it is to me. Captain
Elmore, I hear from my father, died in an
asylum. He had been insane for some time.
This sets aside my theory of monomania,
and accounts for everything. Mrs. Elmore's
conduct is not only rational, but high

principled. Her sense of duty is part of
her conscientious nature, and her difficulty
is greatly increased by the beauty and intelligence
of her daughters, being, as they
are, so ably fitted to play their part in this
contradictory world of ours. My half-formed
plans are entirely shattered, and I
don't mind admitting to you that, having
more personal interest in the family at the
Glade than I knew, this news has thoroughly
disconcerted me. I have had scarcely time
to receive the truth, so firmly was my first
idea fixed. Both Mrs. Elmore and her
husband were, I find, highly esteemed and
admired. But this fact serves only to
aggravate the conditions. Of course, you
will see with me there is no wav out of it.
Destroy my disjointed scrawl.

Faithfully yours,

A. H. Reilly.
"Pes. — Address here until next week, if
you have anything to say. Has your nephew
gone yet ? Take cave of him."

Bathurst sat in gloomy silence, staring at
the letter, although he had read every word
carefully twice over. Yes, certainly, it was
all clear enough — too clear to suit his taste.
There was no doubt about its being one of
those mysterious difficulties that seemed to
be invented only to confuse man's reason
and moral feeling. Eeilly expressed not the
faintest doubt as to the propriety of Mrs.
Elmore's action, and that, of course, implied
his approval. He had, too, admitted that
he had not known the strength of his own
interest. And here Bathurst could truly
sympathize. He had hardly known the
strength of his own interest until the present
moment, when his case was hopeless.

"As to Yin," he muttered, " it's as well
that he has gone. As it is, I may be able
to avoid an explanation. I wonder how
far he is concerned ? Luckily he's young,
and " — with a sigh — " I'm too old to pass the
matter off by a sleepless night or two, and
begin afresh with the next pretty girl who

strikes me. Psha ! what bosh I am talking !
Bah ! "

No ; such light faithlessness was utterly
outside the character of this man, who once
only in his youth had loved and lost. The
sari had died of an insidious disease while
quite young, and the secret had been ever
his own. Perhaps it was the purity of this
attachment that had made him dead to the
attractions of women for many years of his
life. He had spoken the truth when he
told Vivian that mind alone could influence
or attract him, and he knew now, to his
extreme discomfiture, how it had attracted
him.

Now, here comes O'Buncous — as if I
were not ill-humoured enough already ! "

The major came in whistling, and looking
the personification of careless boyhood.

A beautiful morning, Bathurst ! Aren't
you going out ? "

I don't know what you call a beautiful
morning. "

Well — for the time of year. November
isn't brilliant, usually'

Yes ; the autumn is over," said Bathurst,
reflectively, " and our manoeuvres are over
with it."

This was the style of allusion that might
be taken up, he thought. And it was.

Faith, no ! speak for yourself, me boy I
What a providential thing my coming down
here was ! There was a fate in it. I'm
not superstitious, Bathurst, as you know ;
but from the moment I told you I was
cock-sure that Fate was keeping me for
something devilishly good, I've been — that
is, I've known all about it."

Well, I'm glad you've had a pleasant
time ! considering — a few little drawbacks —
necessary obstacles — ahem ! "

Here Bathurst's thoughts, unfortunately,
reverted to the circumstances that had not
been " necessary " on the part of his free
and easy old friend.

I've always held marriage to be essential

to a man' O'Buncous continued, with an
air of seriousness. " What a loss to go
through half one's life without the ' music
of a woman's smile to light the — pipe ! '
No ; it can't be that."

Ah, I thought the metaphor was getting
confused myself. As you say, you want
stir — action. My quiet humdrum life, now
I am alone, doesn't suit you."

Oh, don't mention it. I'm perfectly
happy — at least, that is, I should be ;
there's no doubt I shall be. But women
are ticklish cattle. How can I be dull,
Bathurst, when all my future happiness is
at stake ? "

I sincerely hope not," said the colonel,
whose mind during this rambling speech
had wandered from the subject.

The word "insane" to his mind bore
such a terrible meaning. And when he
conjured up the image of that beautiful
woman, Adelaide Elmore, in all her genuine
understanding, he could not bring himself

to believe that the madness of every ancestor
she possessed could affect her calm, clear
intelligence.

Ah, Bathurst, there's a moral deficiency
in you. You don't soar to the height of
the highest passion of the heart of man ;
you're incapable of it. Gad I it's like the
loadstone — brought within a certain distance
there is no alternative. Man has no choice
but to clasp — to unite with the beloved
object "

Deuced awkward for the women, that
theory of yours. She might be married,
you know, or she might object."

Object ? Oh! women always object.
According to my experience, that's the
game they play. I'm more serious than
ever I was in my life. I'm completely
saturated — if I may use the expression ;
it's the strongest I can think of."

If you really mean me to take you
seriously," said Bathurst, waking up to an
unpleasant sense of another difficulty, " let

me beg of you — I trust you have not been
precipitate "

Precipitate is it ? " O'Buncous threw
up his hands as he made the exclamation,
as though the word were an absurdity.

"Well, you must excuse me if I am
blunt, but I scarcely expected you really

meant " Then he paused, a frown

gathering upon his even brow. Rising, he
strode hastily up and down, speaking as
rapidly as he walked. It was his manner
when moved to anger. " If you are thinking
of any woman here, it must be of
Kate Elmore. Surely you cannot be mad
enough to conceive that you have a chance
with her ? "

And why not • ' O'Buncous raised his
eyebrows, his round black orbs distended
to their widest limits, his short arms thrown
back, his protuberant waistcoat more protuberant
by the attitude. " Why not ? Is
it the contemptible question of age you're
thinking of? A man is just as old as he

feels ! And, Bathurst, do you know how
old Juliet was ? v

"How old Juliet was ? " echoed the colonel,
wondering why he had overheard of her
before.

Ah ! I thought you didn't know," exclaimed
O'Buncous, triumphantly. "Well,,
she was fourteen."

Well, I can't see what that has to do
with it."

My lord, you've got no logic — nor love
either. Why, don't you see, if she was
fourteen, there's nothing to prevent anybody
else — as a woman. I want to show
you age has nothing to do with it, and
I bring Shakespeare to prove it. You say
he was always right."

<< Shakespeare ? Oh ! ah ! Juliet. Well,
but Borneo wasn't fifty."

Falstaff must have been — quite ; so
there you are ! Not that I'm going to
say that Shakespeare should dictate to me.
I know my own feelings better than any

man can tell me." And he shook his head
despondently, and his puffy cheeks shook
too.

All I hope is that you will have
sufficient discretion not to approach that
young lady with a word of love. In her
youth and inexperience "

Was Juliet inexperienced ? Did she go
teaching ? You wouldn't ask the question
if you'd got it in your own nature. Marguerite
was younger still if I "

"Your argument is all damned nonsense
! " and at this Bathurst's strides became
longer.

Oh ! of course you think so. I'm prepared
for that," said O'Buncous, shrugging
his shoulders with the air of a man much
misunderstood. " You cannot sympathize ;
but I implore you, by the memory of our
old friendship, not to spoil my chance."

It would be next to murder," said the

colonel, sarcastically. " You'd die of a

broken heart."

vol. ii. 29

O'Buncous did not see the sarcasm. He
put on a look that was positively comical
in his desire to appear pathetic. Bathurst
caught it, and, even in the midst of his
annoyance, could not forbear to laugh. It
was altogether such a hopeless case to deal
with the man ; he seemed so woefully irresponsible
for his own ridiculous vanity, that
the contest could but seem unfair.

I beg you, anyhow, to be careful, for
my sake. Don't propose to her," said he,
sternly.

Come, now ! this is too bad," said the
other, appealingly. " Too bad ! Do I ever
mention the women you've been proposing
to ? Do I ever throw your age in your
teeth ? Would it become me to order you
not to propose to anybody 1 You couldn't
do it ! I've heard of a man that couldn't
and there's a capital story "

Then Bathurst walked away without any
ceremony to improve his ill-temper and low
spirits.

Ah, poor fellow ! " quoth O'Buncous,
he misses the best things in life ; " and he
began to whistle " Love's Young; Dream. n

A note from the Glade ! ' ; muttered
Bathurst, as he took a letter from a servant,
who intercepted him. " There is mischief."

Dear Colonel Bathurst,

"Ha}- I trouble you to come tome
at once ? I do not apologize, for I am in
great trouble. Come.

Kate Elmore."

Although the signature naturally reminded
him of the brilliant girl he knew by that
name, the note he knew must be from her
mother.

He went at once, anxious and self-absorbed.
A hundred suggestions passed
through his brain as he hastened over the
road.

Once there all doubt was ended. He was
shown into a room, where Mrs. Elmore

received him alone. She was quite calm,
but he saw she was suffering much distress.


And this is the woman whom we accused
of being unsettled in her mind," he
thought bitterly, as the realization of all the
miserable circumstances grew upon him.

Adelaide is ill' she said, quickly. " I
have had a letter from a stranger. I do not
hesitate — I am going to her. I'm sure there
is danger. She cannot write."

Absorbed by her own pain, she did not
notice that the blood had forsaken Bathurst's
face, and that he was gnawing his moustache
furiously.

In all probability I shall be absent sometime.
It would be a great comfort to me
if you, being here, would kindly see to my
girls." Here her voice broke. She paused
for a moment, and then continued, " They
are quite unprotected, you see."

He took her hand. " They are not unprotected
while I am here," he said, abruptly'.

The words were not abrupt to her ; they
were quite satisfactory.

Another favour," she said. " I've no idea
about the trains, and I wish to save time."

I will attend to that. Have you no
details \ "

Only a mere message. I gather from
the address only that she is not at the
vicarage."

This was singularly alarming to Bathurst.
If not at the vicarage, where could she be ■

Where ? " he asked, looking down upon
her in all the strength of his manhood, in
all his pity.

She shook her head.

There is no explanation. The address
is none to me. Do you know Grimslade ? "

I wish I had never heard the name of
the con — I beg your pardon. No. It's a
beastly hole. She never ought to have gone
there."

Then Mrs. Elmore shivered, cast up her
hands, and burst into tears.

"Oh, I'm a brute 1" exclaimed the colonel.
Do forgive me ! I hardly know what I'm
saying. But — never mind. Clare — my
sister, you know — always says it does her
good to cry. There's a capital tram that
meets the North express. If you'll be ready
at four, the carriage shall be here, and — I'll
see you off."

I can't intrude so much," commenced
Mrs. Elmore, looking at him gratefully
through her tears.

You mustn't mention it," he said, impressively.
" I've nothing else to do. I
shall be delight — no ; hang it ! I don't feel
]ike ever being delighted again," he added,
grimly.

CHAPTER XL

I AM GOING XOWY

Never was Bathurst's mind more confused,
more self distrustful, and ill at ease than at
the present moment. Reflection would not
aid him ; for, as Reilly said, " There was noway
out of it." He put it to himself over
and over again, changing facts into fiction
to prove himself wrong or right.

The first supposition that occurred to
him was this. In the event of ignorance on
the part of Mrs. Elmore, or that want of
proper feeling which is much worse than
ignorance, in that case he might have met
this woman, who had so fascinated him, without
any knowledge of restraint, and then he
would have married her. And he was quite

aware that no harm might have happened
from such union ; there was no law to say it
must. But where was the use of dwelling
upon a condition that did not exist ? Again,
if it came to conscience, he must consider his
own. Suppose he had been about to marry
Adelaide, and had made the horrible discovery
for himself ?

"Well, put it as he might, he knew he
shrank from the bare idea. There was wrong
to her, to himself, and last, not least, to
society. For he was not one of those who
hold that man can ever pay the debt of his
own sin. The suffering that might accrue
from one such act might run through generations.


"That—

1 Evil is wrought by want of thought,
As well as want of heart,*

is true enough," he murmured. What a
different thing life must be to those who do
not think ! " He felt that he envied the
man who could decide rapidly without the

burden of self analysis. " Though he never
can be so well satisfied as the man who
bears the burden. Reilly seems to draw
his conclusions and make his decisions
iu the same breath. Men are selfish when
they are in trouble. I've scarcely thought
of him, or of Yin either, since I had
that letter. I had hardly calculated my
chances, it is true ; but I certainly know
now that, although there was a difficulty
to be bridged over, the bridge would be
built."

This new phase of events demanded still
closer consideration, for with the knowledge
that the woman he loved was in danger, with
the knowledge also that she could scarcely
be receiving proper care, came an intensely
loDging impulse to do what he might in
her aid. What he might ! Alas ! it was
so little that he might, encumbered with
this restricting chain of circumstances. He
had been well content, because he was well
met. Colonel Bathurst at forty was not

quite the kind of lover that Vivian was at
five and twenty, although their characters
were essentially of the same type.

Decision of any kind was impossible to
him ; indeed, the only thing possible just
now seemed to be the increase of his passion.
Adelaide's purity, her gentle womanliness,
her unselfish desires, were brought only more
vividly before him now things had come to
this pass. Her resolution to spend her life
for the good of others, giving up those pleasures
she might and could enjoy for the
sake of those who suffered, was to him inexpressibly
pathetic. All this, he knew
very well, was frequently done by women
who had tasted love and found it bitter ;
good, true, noble-minded women, who, knowing
life held no temptations for them, gave
up the whole as well as part of its joys. Butin
Adelaide's case it was not so ; there had
been no such bitterness to disgust her with
existence. Ignorant of the strong tide of
human passion, her days had been even and

pleasant. She had not chosen this course
to bury pain that would be unendurable to
live with. This was where the pathos lay
to him.

Then a suggestion that she might die
crept into his brain and chilled him, chilled
the warm life-blood of his heart and paralyzed
his thought. He was amazed at his
own sensibility. Why would it not be the
best thing that could happen under such
conditions ? No ! a thousand times no ! He
had to recognize how fully his heart and
mind were involved with this woman from
the very force of his own feeling. Was it
possible, in those bygone days, he had loved
that bright child-girl as he now loved Adelaide
1 That past was like a dream to him
now. And this — this would end in being a
dream to him ; it could be nothing else.

And for her? Of course she knew the
secret he had just learnt. And how would
such a mind as hers accept it ? Well, he
knew that already ; 1 ^ could answer it for

himself. There had been no chance for him
at all ; that was the fact. And he had
willingly deceived himself into the idea
that there was a future to be anticipated.
That there was no such future now, strangely
enough, only made the woman more dear
to him.

That day he avoided O'Buncous as far as
possible, and, after explaining that there
could not now be any excuse permitted for
calling at the Glade, got himself away on
the pretext of writing letters, and shut himself
up in the library, where he actually
did write several notes, though not for conscience'
sake.

That had to be done," he told himself ;
and he was aware that everything would
be an effort now.

Then he wrote a word to Eeilly. This
was due from politeness only. There was
no effort required here, for here was the
subject upon which his mind was bound to
dwell.

"As you say, there is no way out of
it. And I sincerely wish we had known
as much at first as we know now. In the
depth of my heart, I hope none of the
women are concerned. Is that likely, do
you think ? They have had the bar direct
before them all their lives ; still, I cannot
but think our domestic familiar intercourse
was very unfair to them. Vivian is right
out of my power ; he has gone, and I intend
to keep him away."

Then Bathurst came to the last phase
of matters — Adelaide's illness. Of this he
spoke with careful reservation, with a
reservation that could but be apparent to
a discerning mind. Yet he was quite unable
to dilate on the subject. He knew he was
in duty bound to mention this thing, which
was a trouble to him, although he could not
admit that it was one.

He rose early next day, after a long weary
night, and went out. The mornirjo- waa
dull and misty, dark and unpromkino-.

"A symphony in gloom," he said, cynically.


He strode on hurriedly, self-absorbed. Ashe
walked away from the house, the external
effects were more wretched still ; the atmospheric
pressure was in itself enough to
lower the tone of a man's spirit. If the
weather was like this here, what could it
be at Grimslade ? The very name was
obnoxious to him. Truly, the best of
natures are contradictory sometimes. He
was a philanthropist. The greatest good to
the greatest number had always been his
theory, yet here he felt convinced that more
good could be bestowed upon him individually
by the devotion of this one girl than
might be gained by any computed number
of Grimsladians.

He lingered as he passed the Glade gate.
He wondered whether any one would be up.
It would hardly do to call at this hour ; but
he was longing to do so. There might have
been a telegram ; there could not have been
a letter.

On he went through the lane roofed with
interlacing elms, through which Kate and
Vivian had ridden a few weeks a go under
very different aspects. It was muddy now.
There were pools of water here and there,
half hidden by the fallen leaves, into which
he splashed unconcernedly, unmindful that
he had come out in his slippers. Miserable,
indeed, everything might be — it was ; but
anything must be better than inaction.

Eight o'clock ! The clock of the old grey
church chimed out the hour just as he
returned after an hour's exertion.

I might call in half an hour," he thought,
without great singularity. Those girls
will not suspect anything."

Here was the postboy. Of course he
would branch off from the main road, and
ring that deep-toned bell at the Glade gate.
He, however, did not ; he passed on
whistling, and unconscious that, of all menin
the world, men of his calling were,
perhaps, watched and awaited with more

intense excitement than any royal personage
could ever hope to inspire.

It really was not quite half-past eight
when Bathurst summoned resolution, and
called. The girls were lingering over
breakfast. His coming was a relief.

I'm not going to apologize," he said.
I have come for news. I hardly liked
to see your mother go away alone yesterday."


Nor I," said Mary, quickly. " I think
it would have been better if we had all gone
together."

He shook his head. " Is there no letter ? M
he asked.

No," said Kate, excitedly.

And no telegram 1 ,;

No."

Hem ! "

Will you send a telegram for me ? ,J
asked Mary.

Certainly. You are naturally impatient
for a word."

I am so afraid," cried Kate, clasping
her hands, "that I can't bear to think."

Thinking isn't very pleasant," he replied,
slowly. " Of course you want to be able
to do something, but you can do nothing-yet.
We must hear first,"

I feel as though I would give anything
if Doctor Eeilly could be there," said Mary,
earnestly, those calm, clear eyes travelling
far into the distance.

So do I. He is a man to depend upon.
All medical practitioners are not like him."

"And my mother will not know how to
get at the man of highest ability."

Cannot — will not the vicar with whom
your sister is staying "

Oh ! those people would be of no use,"
interrupted Kate.

Bathurst looked at her inquiringly.

Well, the fact is mamma did not wish
us to tell you."

Kate ! " expostulated Mary.

Oh ! I can never see the use of secrecy

vol. ii. 30

about anything ; a fact's a fact, and it's got
to be faced."

It has, unfortunately," muttered he,
gloomily. " What about these people ?
What can it matter what I know ? "

Only this," said Mary. " Mrs. Wallis—
that is, the vicar's wife — is an unpleasant
person in many ways, and it was really
wrong that Adelaide should have stayed
there from the first — according to my way
of thinking."

And your mother ? ' ;

She thought so too. But I should have
acted quickly ; she did not. The plain
truth is, Dell is really stronger than my
mother ; she has greater influence than
either of us."

Then that accounts for your sister being
at another house ? "

I think so."

They cannot possibly have refused to
take her in ? "

One might expect anything from such a

woman ! " exclaimed Kate, with a shrug of
her shoulders. " A woman who paints and
comes down to breakfast at eleven, and
dresses like a girl when she's an old woman,
and who keeps her husband in such subjection
that he is "

"Kate!"

As I said before, it's a fact."

Go on with your description, Miss
Kate. She must be a charming personage."

She laughed ; and then stopped, looking
suddenly serious. " Don't beguile me into
talk, colonel. It seems wicked and unfeeling
to be sitting here chatting and —
lauo'hino; ! "

Nobody laughed but yourself, Kate,"
said Mary, sadly. " I never felt less!
inclined."

Xor I," said Bathurst, acquiescing.

Their eyes met sympathetically. They
were both troubled, and they both knew it.
AY hen her eyes were lowered from his face,
they fell upon his slippers, and they were

very muddy. Not a shadow of a smile
moved her lips at this discovery. The eyes
she lifted up to his again were shining,
though she could not see through them for
the mist. It was to her, with such strong
though latent sympathies, as though she
understood all through the medium of the
slippers.

Well, I'll go and give in the telegram,"
said Bathurst, rising.

(t Yes, that's right," said Kate. " Go on,"
she added impatiently, regardless of politeness.
" There's the bell ! Oh, Mary ! "

And Kate stopped, turning pale, and unconsciously
pressing her hand, on her heart.
Bathurst went to the window. Mary left
the room.

He saw the boy deliver a yellow envelope
at the gate, and he saw the middle-aged,
stern-faced woman walk up the path with it
in her hand ; and it may be stated in his
honour that he did literally feel " as nervous
as a girl."

Because a man stands firm as a rock, with
a grave quiet face, it is often supposed by
women that he has no sensation. This,
however, is a mistake not made by all.
Anxious as Mary was when she entered the
room hurriedly, breaking open the envelope
as she came, she discerned in the erect fio-ure
that took only one step in advance, and was
again still, an anxiety equaling her own.

Tell me ! " cried Kate, putting her handover
her eyes.

I can't see," said Mary, holding the
paper with both hands to keep it steady.

Bathurst crossed quickly and looked over
her shoulder. It did not occur to him for
one second that he did anything in the
least uncommon as he read aloud, " Very ill.
Xo time to write. Doctor next to useless.
But I am here."

Silence for the space of half a minute.

That's just all we knew before," said
Mary, in a low solemn tone. " except that
mamma is there."

What ought we to do now ? " asked
Kate, appealingly.

I don't know," said Bathurst.

We need not send our telegram now. I
shall write. How dreadful it is ! ,!

Yes," said he, " I'm going now."

He felt there was nothing left for him todo
or say. And so he went, leaving the
girls looking at each other in apprehensive
silence.

Out again in the mud and mist he went.
But he walked with more energy and
decision in going away from this house that
had so much interest for him. He had
come to a resolution now. It had been
made in the space of a minute after he had
read that message — he would go to Grimace
at all risks. He would go and rive
what aid he could. Excited and apprehensive
as he was, the most alarming construction
was naturally placed upon the words of
that message, Well, even if she is to die
he will be near her. If it were to be that,

he would tell her. If she does not love him
there can be no harm ; and if she should,
did not his own heart prompt him and say
the knowledge will make her glad ?

I think we had the chief of all Love's joy
Only in knowing that we loved each other."

The lines came across his mind unbidden.
Certainly his fear was strong within him.
How unaccountably this ridiculous comedy
was turning into a tragedy !

CHAPTER XII.

GRIMSLADE.

Within the pleasant precincts of Netherbyby
was another prospect, one with which Bathurst
was not in tune.

O'Buncous was breakfasting.

I didn't wait," he said, gaily ; " I know
you don't like it, and — by Jove, you are
right ! I've got accustomed to your cooking
at last, and I don't hesitate to say that I
like it."

u That's fortunate," said Bathurst, helping
himself to coffee.

It's a little pleasant inside than out —
isn't it ? I suppose you went in search of
an appetite."

If I did I didn't find it," said Bathurst,
grimly, gulping his hot coffee.

You're looking down in the mouth. Is
your liver out of order ? Autumn's the
time to try it."

Autumn's over," interpolated the colonel,

And a pleasant season I never had in
my life ! "

But everything must have an end, you
see ; and I shall be obliged to leave tomorrow.
A matter of some importance
takes me — hem ! I'm happy to hear you
have found the time pleasant, since we
must part."

"Don't mention it, me dear boy! I'm
perfectly comfortable."

I — I — really — I'm very glad to hear it ;
but, you see, I'm compelled to go."

I shall be all right. I implore you not
to propose my going. As I said to you the
other day, Bathurst, I can make myself as
comfortable as you like, but I can't leave the
spot. Don't ask me to do it," he added

emphatically, running his hand through his
hair to assist the show of agitation ; " don't
ask me to do it ! "

The position was a novel one to Bathurst.
It was, of course, very pleasing to know that
one's efforts to entertain an old friend had
been crowned with such success that he
refused to leave the house. He was perplexed.


Now," said he, "I see that I must ho
plain. There are many reasons why it
would not do for me to leave you here.
Need I — explain them ? "

If it's my propriety you question," exclaimed
O'Buncous, starting from his seat
excitedly, " by me soul, you're deceived !
I'm as modest as yourself, Bathurst ; and
that's saying a good deal. My manners are
not as high and mighty, it is true ; but I respect
the female sex in a way that few men do.
By-the-bye, how's Miss Elmore, I wonder ?
I suppose they've got a full account by this
time. Somebody ought to go over and

inquire. I'll go myself, as you feel indisposed."


By no means ! " exclaimed Bathurst.
Do let us keep to our point. I have many
arrangements to make, and can't afford to
lose any time."

Anyhow, somebody must have the
decency to call over there," said O'Buncous,
pulling down his waistcoat, which had an
awkward knack of crumpling up at what
had once been his waist. He surveyed himself
at the looking-glass as he spoke, and was
evidently satisfied at his appearance. Bathurst
surveyed him sternly ; he was more
perplexed than ever.

I've no arrangements to make ; I'm not
busy. Leave it to me," said the major,
persuasively.

I tell you it must not be thought

of : "

Somebody must think of it ; it's a matter
of mere politeness. Whatever your business
may be, after the intimacy that has taken

place, and the lasting regard that one of
your visitors will ever retain "

Oh, damn it ! ,: exclaimed Bathurst,
initiated at last into an oath.

Oh ! come I say ; you never used to
swear ! That's twice now ! Look to your
own morals, me boy, I say. As the Scripture
says, " Fill up your own moat," — or
something to that effect. I know your
suspicions ; you may smother 'em. If you
like, now," he went on, with earnest impressiveness
; "if you like now, I'll take an
oath — now on the spot — not to have speech
with any of your maids during your absence.
Will that content ye ? "

I want you plainly to understand. I've
no wish to throw any doubts whatever on
your discretion ; but I don't know how long
I may be away, the matter being an important
one."

"I hope it isn't funds — I do, 'pon my
honour ! — because I can't offer to assist you
there, being short of 'em myself."

Oh ! " exclaimed Bathurst, seeing his
chance, and, like a bold man, taking it.
No, it's not a matter of funds. Still,
O'Buncous, if I can assist you at an awkward
turn of events, I shall be most happy.
Forgive the — what I may term the
indelicacy "

Oh ! I'm not so particular. As I said
before, don't mention it. Between old
friends there should be no delicacy in such
matters. Bless you ! I never feel it myself.
I should only be too delighted to assist anybody
if I could ; but it's not in my power.
Suppose we say twenty ? "

O'Buncous looked quite anxious at the
suggestion.

Delighted with his success, Bathurst's
anger vanished. He looked very grave,
almost solemn, as he pulled his moustache,
and said, " It's a large sum. Are you
going to start a public company ? Twenty
thou "

"I didn't say thousands — I meant pounds ! "

cried O'Buncous, thoroughly taken in, and
conceiving a vast respect for Bathurst
immediately.

Oh ! if that's all, I'll write you a cheque
at once. And, old fellow, you'll be ready
to start some time this morning ? "

Sure enough — sure enough ! " agreed
O'Buncous. " What direction do you travel
in ? I could be of no service, I suppose, my
time being unoccupied ? "

Not the least in the world ! ' ; said
Bathurst, impatiently. " Don't think of
it ! "

That's what you always say," observed
his old friend, cheerfully. " I should lose
my memory entirely if I took your advice.
Don't you ever think of anything yourself
r

The colonel was occupied in hastily
writing the cheque at this moment. He
looked up at O'Buncous wonderingly. No
one could say what this child of nature
would say next.

Certainly, before I go I should like to
know how the young lady is "

That's an equivocation ! You don't
care two straws. And, look here, I've
passed my word that no man shall enter
those doors but myself."

And a precious nice arrangement it is ! ' ;
O'Buncous shrugged his shoulders and spread
out his hands hopelessly. " I might swear
to such an arrangement myself "

Hang it ! you were not asked by the
girls' mother. "Who the devil do you think
would trust you ? ' :

Why, you've doue it yourself, me boy,
to the extent of twenty quid. I've always
heard that when you borrow money of a
man, you give him the right to insult you.
There's a devilish good story about that "

Everybody knows it."

"I don't know about that," said O'Bun-
cous, who was very proud of the originality
of his anecdotes. "I'll bet, now, yours was
about — what is yours, now ? "

Mine ? " replied Bathurst, contemptuously.
" I haven't fallen into my l anecdotage'
yet. I must be off. Now, you'll be
ready before noon ? We'll have lunch atone,
sharp."

And you'll have to go to London, anyhow.
I can go so far with you."

There was no way out of this. Bathurst
knew it would be only a loss of time to pretend
to go elsewhere, and that he could not
afford. Still, to a man in his frame of mind,
this was a detestable clause in the anticipated
journey.

He went to his room and wrote a short
note to Mary Elmore. Unforeseen circumstances,
he explained, demanded his presence
elsewhere. As soon as possible he would return.
Meanwhile, should the slightest
difficulty arise, a letter addressed to his
housekeeper would be forwarded to him
immediately, wherever he might be. Then
he added a postscript. " Please oblige me
by not mentioning my enforced absence to
Mrs. Elmore."

This was an after-thought, and he made
it emphatic. He knew that Mary would
respect his request.

The journey to London was tedious
enough, still he was satisfied on one point —
he had managed to take O'Buncous with
him, and he managed also to leave him on
their arrival without much delay. He
evaded curious questioning by vague replies.

ft No ; I'm not going to the aesthetic.
Having no appetite, I don't want to dine.
Besides, I shall lose my train."

Going North, aren't you ? "

Yes," hesitated Bathurst. " Dear me,
how they have improved this part of London !
It's amazing ! Think I'd better take a cab.
It's beginning to rain. Good-bye, O'Bun-
cous ; excuse my haste."

Certainly ; and many thanks for the —
all of it, you know. You'll see me again at
Xetherby."

Ah ! doubtless," said the colonel, getting
into a hansom.

VOL. II. 31

That's a relief ! " said he, as the cab
twisted round from the curb. " I wonder
how long he would have made ' himself
comfortable ' at my house ? "

He travelled straight on. He was impatient
beyond description to be there.

As Adelaide had said, " Grimslade was
ugly." It looked hideous, on this dull
November night, when Bathurst arrived,
too late to do anything. He sat himself
down to consider what it was he really
meant to do. He felt truly that if he had
not been in love with Adelaide, he could
have acted very differently. Knowing all
he did now, it would be cruelty to force his
attentions upon those two women who were
placed so helplessly here. He took the
whole night, with the exception of an hour's
intermitting sleep, to revolve the question in
his mind, and to apprehend the worst. He
made the discovery next morning that he
was looking very unlike himself; and then
he turned from the unpleasant contemplation

of his own countenance, and looked out of
the window.

If Grinislade was hideous the night before,
what was it now, amid a steady down-pouring
rain ? He had conceived the plan
of waylaying the doctor as he came from
the house, and of avoiding: Mrs. Elmore if
she should happen to appear outside the
doors. Before ten o'clock he entered a
narrow dismal street, with mean prison-like
houses on each side. He shuddered at the
very sight of it. Yes, that was the house
number ten. They were all poor people
who lived there ; they must be, of course.
It was in this very house she was taken ill,
here where she was nursing some sick
person. Still, this was not the sort of place
where he imagined she would be working.
Mary had said something about the distressing
dirt and squalor. There are degrees
of difference, even in poverty, and he was
glad to think that she was here, although the
comfort to which she had been accustomed
must be want in g.

For two weary hours did Bathurst pace
that miserable street ; of course, avoiding to
pass the house, in case he should be seen.
At last he was rewarded. A man undoubtedly
of a professional type entered the street, and
went straight to the house. There he
remained ten minutes perhaps, not more.
Of course, Bathurst's position was awkward ;
he knew that. Still, he strode on as fast to
meet the man as though he had been his
dearest foe.

I beg your pardon," he said, when they
came face to face. " Will you grant me a
few minutes' conversation ? Allow me to
introduce myself to you."

The plain, stupid-looking man took the card
1 bathurst handed to him with a kind of dull
surprise. He did not glance at it, but he
had a patient in view.

How can I assist you, sir ? " he said.

I merely wish to place myself in your
hands," said Bathurst, rapidly.

My surgery is not far off. If you
will accompany me, I shall be delighted."

He seems an easy man," thought the
colonel. He would much rather have talked
here as they walked, but as he was asking
a favour, the least he could do would be to
go. For aught he knew, it might be unprofessional
to talk in the street. So he
walked on in silence. The doctor made
several polite remarks about the weather,
and that was all.

Into a little dull back room, behind a
chemist's shop, he was led.

And now, sir, take a seat." Sitting down
at the same time himself, he leant forward,
and added confidentially, " Now, will you
explain what is the matter with you ? ' :

Oh, I beg your pardon," said Bathurst,
hastily, feeling sure now the man was outrageously
stupid. " There is nothing wrong
with me. My business with you is of a
totally different nature. Mine is rather a
singular position. But I am no hand at
circumlocution, and I have every desire to
be perfectly just. Will you assist me — as

one gentleman should another ? and I will
speak unreservedly."

There was a pause. The man's manner
was changed when he found he had not a
patient. He rubbed his chin and assumed
an air of importance. " That I cannot say.
I must first hear your statement."

Bathurst's keen eyes were reckoning up
this man as he spoke. " It will be easy," he
thought. "You are attending a lady at
number ten — a lady by the name of Elmore.
Before going any further, may I ask you to
give me one word as to that lady's condition."


Oh ! as far as that goes, although you
will understand it is outside professional
etiquette, I have no objection to tell you
that the lady is very ill — very ill indeed."

In that case," said Bathurst, drawing a
long breath, " my position w ill be easily
understood. I am an old friend of these
ladies." As he uttered the words he discovered
the statement was hardly tine.

Anyhow, he felt like an old friend, and,
oddly enough, a vision of O'Buncous presented
itself. " I — that is — Mrs. Elmore
and her daughter have very little experience
in the world, and they are quite strangers
here. I am anxious for them both. I am
anxious that they should have proper attendance."


Here the man drew himself up and
showed some displeasure.

Colonel Bathurst bowed in his most
charming manner. " I meant no detraction,
I assure you. I want you to understand the
position. In plain English, I desire to put
this case in the hands of the best man you
have in Grimslade. I want you to tell me
the name of that man. I want you to deliver
the case up to him in a perfectly professional
manner, and I am ready to pay for it."

Now, here was something comprehensive
to the meanest understanding. The displeasure
faded from the doctor's face.

I see," he said, carefully. " You fear the

lady's illness is dangerous, and you would
have further advice. This is quite proper ;
there is nothing unprofessional in it."

There's nothing dishonourable, anyhow,"
said Bathurst. " I don't understand any
other law. You will lose nothing by it."

I am not thinking of that," said the
doctor, modestly.

Certainly not," said Bathurst. " Now
as to the man you would advise."

Nelson Parke is a name that I think
would be familiar to you."

No."

He has written extensively, and he is a
man of great ability. His charge is high."

Never mind that. Get him here to-day;
you can do that. I shall see him afterwards
here."

The doctor reflected. His position was
somewhat awkward. Already Mrs. Elmore,
although she had been there but two days,
had urged upon him her desire to have a
consultation. And this he had put off for

considerations of his own. Under conditions
it was excusable to alter one's mind.

Don't you think it would be better to
wait until tomorrow, at the usual time I pay
my visit ? "

Not one moment ! " exclaimed Bathurst,
imperatively.

"I was only thinking of the alarm we
might create."

Psha ! A little tact. I will make it
worth your while."

Precisely. It is out of all order. My
fee would amount to — to — let me see "

I know you are not thinking about it,"
said Bathurst, with suppressed sarcasm,
"but we may as well arrange your fee.
Shall we make it as much as Nelson
Parke's ? "

Yes. I think under our peculiar "

Exactly. Now, this must be managed
without any mention of myself in the matter,
as far as the ladies are concerned. You
understand that ? "

I will manage it," said the doctor, with
alacrity.

It's amazing how your stupid man can
always understand money," thought Bathurst.
And I've known genius that couldn't."

Can't you go at once ? " he said aloud.

I have a few more visits to make "

Then can I go and bring him here ? It's
all the same thing, you know ; we only
save time. You'll conduct everything, of
course," he added, complimentarily.

It might be as well. You will leave —
all explanation — to — me "

Bathurst was already out of the shop.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE COLONEL SPEAKS HIS MIND.

Bathurst lost not a moment. He found
the physician at home, and was impressed
by his apparent quickness of perception and
his rapid, decisive speech. The few questions
answered straight to the purpose satisfied
each man as to the other's professions.

Doctor Parke persuaded Bathurst to
accompany him. He could start now in a
few minutes. While they drove on, he,
having gained the necessary knowledge,
went on with his rapid perceptive power to
discriminate further. He read by unmistakable
signs that his companion was as anxious
for this patient, whom he had not seen, as

any close relative might be ; but no bint bad
been given as to relationship.

There is reason why I should not be
present," said the colonel. " I shall have
the pleasure of seeing you immediately after
the consultation. You will oblige me ? ,:

It is aD irregularity of no moment. And
pray do not hesitate to speak, if I can oblige
you."

"I shall not," said Bathurst, energetically.
You will not misunderstand me. I am
going to ask you to advise me in getting a
professional nurse to assist the lady, if the
case should be as I suspect."

I shall order everything I find desirable.
Leave the responsibility altogether with me.
I never spare any trouble when I once take
anything up."

This was no idle boast ; it was a very
commonplace statement.

It was strange enough, Bathurst thought,
as he again took a seat in the dull back
parlour — it was very strange that this consultation

should take so long, and the morning
visit had been so short. He looked at
his watch again ; half-past four. He went
out restlessly, and glanced down the street.
Unheeding the lashing rain, he walked to
and fro, with quick impatient steps, waiting
about the miserable place, within sight of
the house.

And this was where he was when the
carriage drove up. Doctor Parke was not
surprised. He alighted hastily.

You will kindly see to it at once,"
he said politely, staying for an instant to
write at the counter. Then he went into
the room, and Colonel Bathurst followed
him.

There was a momentary silence. Then
the colonel said briefly, " Well ? "

"Worse than I expected. It is well I
was called."

I knew that. Is there danger ? "

Yes ; grave reasons for apprehension."

You have had worse cases ? "

The doctor hesitated. " Yes ; but then
one could not expect recovery."

"Thank you; that is plain speaking.
Does Mrs. Elmore understand so much ? "

No. She is naturally anxious. The
general condition of her daughter would not
excite alarm. I judge from symptoms."

How did she take your visit ? ' :

Old Box went at it so clumsily, that /
took the explanation up to save unnecessary
distress."

"That was well."

I relieved her considerably. She is a
woman who has known trouble, I observed."

You are right. Did you observe any
peculiarity in Miss Elmore ? "

Except that she is very handsome ?
Yes ; I expected cerebral derangement, most
common in this stage of typhoid. However,
her head is perfectly clear. Sound high intelligence,
I should say. She told me she
had been nursing in that house, and took
some interest in her patient, I admit to

surprise at finding such people. Afterwards
I asked Mrs. Elmore where her daughter
had been staying."

That's one of the things I want to get at."

She said little. I remarked the highbred
delicacy with which she veiled the
name of those people. Were they strangers '?
They were receiving payment. They refused
to take her in." Bathurst looked
like a thunder-cloud. " It was inhuman ;
besides, they had no right to refuse her
admission."

Bathurst set his lips in a very resolute
line. " I shall discover," he said, briefly.

I will send the nurse at once. She will
take instructions from me. Best assured
that you may rely upon her. She is discretion
itself — a very superior woman."

The men parted, knowing, perhaps, more
of each other from their few .minutes' association
than some might gather from
months of intercourse.

Later in the day, Bathurst found himself

again in the dull street that absorbed all his
interest. He wondered if the nurse had
yet arrived ; he was anxious to see the
woman, and gain her confidence as soon as
possible. So entirely now was he absorbed,
heart and soul, in this issue, that he had
ceased to wonder at himself.

Presently he became aware that a young
man in clerical dress was coming towards
him ; he had not observed, however, from
which house he had emerged. Insensibly
he connected this young clergyman with the
vicar. Bathurst walked on boldly, and
stopped him.

Excuse me," he said, authoritatively ;
you have been sent to inquire after Miss
Elmore ? w

With a glance of weak astonishment, the
young man said meekly, " I have not been
sent. I merely called to make an inquiry
for my own satisfaction."

Thanks for that consideration. You
are

Curate of St. Eldred's. My name is
Hazel."

Thank you again. Good morning."

Bathurst's keen eye detected in the
distance a figure in a Ions; dark cloak advancing
rapidly. He hastened on to waylay
her. They stopped simultaneously.

You are Colonel Bathurst ? " she said.
"Doctor Parke said he was sure you would
be here."

"His discernment was not at fault."

"It never is," she said, simply. "What
have you to say, sir ? ' :

He said I might trust you. In the first
place, then, I — do not exist. There must
be no one in this case but yourself and the
doctor. Take care that everything possible
shall be provided. The place is mean. A
woman's eye will soon discover "

I understand exactly what you want,"
she said, quietly.

Let me know by some means — hesitate

at nothing. I am here with the sole object
vol. ii. 32

of watching over these ladies, who are so
helplessly placed. I am staying at the
Crown."

I shall let you know," the nurse said,
with a grave inclination of the head. ' I
waste no time."

Indeed, the two interviews had been remarkably
brief. As Bathurst turned the
corner of the street, he saw the young
clergyman lingering, evidently in expectation.


However, the colonel had as much information
as he wanted. " I can find out
St. Encored's for myself," he thought. He
glanced at his watch. Yes, time was
suitable ; he w T ould go at once. Indignation
was burning in his breast. He would speak
his mind, and the sooner the better.

Finding his way into the town, he made
inquiries, and soon discovered the church in
question ; then he made his way to the
vicarage just beyond, and gave a knock at
the door, in which all the strength of his

character was expressed. It is a positive
fact that a man cannot knock at a door
after his usual habit when his angler is high.

He asked to see the vicar. He was requested
to wait in the hall while the servant
made inquiries.

"Mr. Wallis is not at home. Is your
business of any importance ? If so, Mrs.
Wallis will see you."

Mrs. Wallis ! Bathurst never had, in the
whole course of his life, bullied a woman.
He did not know how to set to work. The
bare idea grated upon his feelings.

My business is with the vicar," he said,
briefly.

Now, Mrs. Wallis had seen the commanding
figure of the colonel from the window,
and had at once conceived an intense desire
to make herself agreeable.

The maid returned with a message.
Would the gentleman await the vicar's
return ?

The gentleman would wait.

He was shown into a room, evidently the
library. Bathurst sat down sturdily, and
folded his arms. Whatever the manner of
man he might meet, he was prepared for
him.

After a few minutes, there was a slight
rustling noise, the handle of the door was
turned, and a lady entered. She stopped
for a moment in apparent confusion, and
then said, with what was meant for the
most fascinating air of girlish modesty,
Oh ! I am very sorry. I thought you
had been shown into the drawing-room. I
am very sorry ; " and the lady looked more
bashful still. But though she cast down
her eyes and smiled, Bathurst could see at
once through the common affectation of the
woman. The deep red dye upon her cheeks
and her blackened eyebrows were clearly
such lies to nature, from their harsh hues,
that in the course of a few seconds he had
qui to formed his conclusions on the vicar's
wife.

"Pray, ruadani, do not apologize for
entering your own room," he said, with cold
reservation.

This was just the manner most suited to
excite Mrs. Wallis's attention.

I — I wanted to find a book," she said,
with a side-long glance. " I am so dull
when my husband is away. I am quite
nervous when alone." She moved her head,
and all the mass of curly hair shook with
the movement.

Surely, it is a wig ! " he thought. " The
woman must be at least sixty, and she is
rigged out like a foolish girl."

DO O

She began to rummage among the books,
rustling her huge mass of drapery with
evident pleasure. She had no doubt whatever
that this cool, handsome man was
admiring her.

"Poetry is my delight," she said. " I am
so constituted that I take pleasure in nothing
that is not perfectly refined and elegant."

Being called upon to speak, he said

quietly, " Indeed, madam, that is unfortunate."


Unfortunate ! " she exclaimed, in a hisrh
shrill tone, following up with a girlish
giggle, " Oh ! what can you mean ? "

He was spared the explanation, for he
heard a footstep outside, and waited.

The vicar came in. He was a tall, spare,
leathery-looking man, with a coarse mouth
and an awkward manner.

His wife threw her arms upon his
shoulders. " Oh, my darling, I am so glad
you have returned so early ! Have you been
in the rain ? Really, no one but a dog
should go out in such weather."

Ah ! but an English clergyman has to
work, dear one."

She patted his face.

Now, Bathurst was not in a good temper,
and he may, perhaps, be forgiven if, during
this episode, the temper did not improve.
He had risen.

May I ask the favour of a little time

with you ? " he said, addressing the man ina
commanding voice.

Certainly," said the vicar, suavely. " I
am at your service."

What I have to say cannot be said in
the presence of a lady."

My dear one, you will kindly leave us."

A wife should always be by her husband's
side," she whispered. Turning to
Bathurst, " We are one" she said. " There
are no secrets between us."

I have no desire that there should be,"
said Bathurst, austerely.

Oh ! the man was a bear — a brute, she
thought. She gave a little hysterical cry.

Command yourself, my loved, one ; the
gentleman means no offence. He is probably
in great anguish of mind, and stands in
need of ghostly counsel. At such times
men forget the tenderness of your sex."

He took her hand and led her to the door,
where, after another caress, she left them.

Bathurst ground his teeth bitterly. " This

is a creature who is considered sane ! " he
muttered. He had not prepared his words ;
lie was no orator. If he had prepared a
sentence, he would have forgotten it. " Do
you profess to be a Christian, sir ? v he
demanded.

I — really, sir, you astound me ! ' :

Mr. Wallis gathered his" bony limbs together,
and sank into a chair. Such a
question as this had not been put to him in
his life.

I don't wonder at your astonishment.
Surely you might reply in the spirit of your
succession" said Bathurst, sarcastically.

The vicar was dumfounded.

"Well, you don't appear to know what
you are. You are not a Samaritan at any
rate."

A— a "

You need not be afraid ; your robes
protect you. This is my business. A young
lady was sent to reside in your house, by
your arrangement with her mother. Do

you conceive, for one moment, that that
young lady was in your charge upon the
assumption of your being a gentleman."

Really — I protest "

Beyond this, you were amply paid, and
were legally bound to give Miss Elmore
protection. You sent her back from your
house to die among strangers — if Fate would
have it — in a mean poor dwelling where no
care of any kind could be bestowed upon
her. I warn you that I have no respect for
anything you can say."

I — I — oh ! my position is most distracting
! " cried the vicar, flinging his hands
above his head. " God ! I am tried
for Thy good reasons."

The less play-acting the better," said
Bathurst. " Explain ! "

The flesh is a scourge — a scourge to us
all."

If you said the flesh should be scourged,
I would agree with you," said Bathurst,
gruffly.

The delicacy of my position "

Confound the delicacy ! "

In my house, sir," said the vicar,
severely, "your language must at least
be "

What I like," interrupted Bathurst, disdainfully.
" What earthly reason "

Excuse me ; but — are you a married
man {

I haven't come here to be catechized."

I cannot hope to make the matter clear,
if you are unmarried." Then he cried excitedly,
" Here, sir, is the letter I was engaged
in writing, to my infinite discomfiture, when
the young lady fell ill. Upon that I — I
thought there might be no necessity to
forward it."

The vicar's hand shook as he searched
the drawer of his writing-table, and placed
an open sheet upon the table.

Throwing upon him a glance of withering
scorn, Bathurst took up the letter. He read
it through in silence.

"My dear Madam,

I have to approach you upon a
singular subject, one which, however, I make
no doubt you will easily comprehend. It
is said that the back is suited to the burden ;
but, alas ! there are times with all of us when
patience gives way, and the burden becomes
unendurable. Madam, I am a married man,
as you know, and had I seen your daughter
I should never have made any arrangement
to take her into my house. Her beauty is
the great stumbling-block. Alas that the
flesh should, ever control the spirit ! My
wife, a lady of high birth, is so devotedly
attached to me that she cannot endure the
presence of — must I say it ? — of any lady
of personal attractions. Is this statement
humiliating 1 It is well we should all be
humbled. The flesh must be subdued. Injustice
to myself, I should say, yet I am
sure I need hardly state, that I have never
given cause for any suspicion. And you
must allow me to say, also in self-defence,

that you were injudicious in sending your
daughter away from you. You will at once
see the necessity "

This was the real termination. Bathurst
read no more. He threw down the letter in
disgust. " And do you mean to tell me
that any living man can allow a woman like
that to make an ass of him ? "

Sir, Mrs. Wallis is a lady "

May I ask," continued the colonel, deaf
to the interruption — " may I ask if either
of you had the common decency to keep the
disgraceful topic of your wife's jealousy to
yourselves ? "

At this the vicar showed a quite undue
excitement.

You do not know what you are saying ;
that is, you cannot comprehend how I am
placed." He paused, perplexity on every
feature of his dull, heavy face. " This I
can say — if ever you are married, you will
find it all out for yourself."

He dropped his arms helplessly in recognition

of the hopelessness of the subject.
Bathurst regarded him with immeasurable
contempt.

I'm wasting words on you. However,
I have had the satisfaction of letting you
know what I think of you. Placed as you
are, you should be a protector to the weaker
sex. This house should be a sanctuary "

My dear sir, Mrs. Wallis would go
mad."

She would not have far to £0 " said
Bathurst, sternly.

This was such a bitter jest to him.

The flesh must be subdued ; it is the
cross we have to bear. Xo man in holy
orders should marry."

"Then pray why did you ? "

Do not ask me ! n The vicar passed
his hand over his eyes. " Alas ! you have
no sympathy with such as I."

Sympathy ! " exclaimed the colonel, with
relentless contempt. " I'm ashamed to regard
you as a man."

Pray what right have you to come here
and insult a man of peace ? "

"The right that every man has to defend
those who are helpless or wronged."

Having expended the rough edge of his
wrath on this unequal foe, and knowing
that no benefit could probably be derived
from such a creature as this, Bathurst prepared
to leave the house.

One word more," he said, iu a threatening
tone, his rich, deep voice ringing through
the hall as he held the study door open ;
one word more. If you were a man whom
I could fight, I should give you a lesson — a
moral lesson — that would be a scourge to
the flesh."

With this he stalked out of the house, and
walked down the trim gravel path with a
military stride that was no longer attractive
to the lady of the house, who, having heard
these last hard words, was now preparing
for a fit of hysterics.

CHAPTER XIV.

A QUESTION OF MORAL CAPACITY.

It is rather curious' said Adelaide, moving
her head restlessly ; " I can't understand it."

My dear, you heard what Doctor Parke
said, and what you did not hear I told you.
You know one thing — he desired you to
keep your mind easy."

Oh, fifty such things would not disturb
me," said Adelaide, quietly. " One can't
keep the mind a blank because one is ill.
It is so strange that Mr. Box should have
refused your request one hour, and have
brought Doctor Parke here the next."

I don't care a straw, so long as we have
him," said Mrs. Elmore.

You need not be anxious, darling ; I

am sure to get well. I mostly grieve about
cooping you up in such a disagreeable place.
My last intention was to drag you out into
the nasty, dirty world."

Oh ! I'm not going to say too much
against the world."

You have, mamma ! "

In a general sense. Look, now, at the
kindness we are receiving from a perfect
stranger. Doctor Parke has sent that most
valuable woman, who has already given me
one night's sleep and many inestimable
hints."

She is admirable," said Adelaide. " And
since she is here, mamma, you'll go out today.
The sun is shining."

Not to-day, dear. Soon, I hope. This
light is too much for your eyes. And, Dell,
I shall talk no more."

Give me that beautiful white chrysanthemum.
It always soothes me to touch a
flower. Don't you remember what beauties
Colonel Bathurst used to send us in the

summer ? I wonder where this came
from ? "

The nurse brought them in with her."

She is an admirable woman to hit upon
my taste."

Mrs. Elmore darkened the room, and took
up her book. She noted the deepening
flush on her daughter's face, and would say
no more.

Adelaide was looking really more beautiful
than ever. Usually she was pale. It
was only under excitement the rose-pink
flushed into her cheeks. Xow the colour
was high, and the eyes marvellously brilliant.
In this darkened room they looked like
stars. The hand in which she held the
flower caressingly was hot and tremulous.

They were happy days, those she had

spent last summer at the Glade, by far the

happiest she could remember. Everything

was so charming, the place so beautiful, the

weather heavenly, all she loved around her,

pleasant little argumentative chats with
vol. ii. 33

Reilly and Vivian in the invalid's room,
lovely snatches of music now and then,
exquisite flowers, beautiful people. Were
they not all beautiful? Her excited brain
brought their features vividly before her.
The loveliness of that "boy" she so admired,
and of Kate whom she so tenderly loved,
and of her mother, in whom there was a
pathos beyond all

But the greatest fascination upon which
her mind dwelt was on the strong, commanding
outline of Bathurst's face, that
strong, harmonious profile she had so often
glanced at in the course of those happy
afternoon walks. How happy she had been !
although she hardly knew .it then, because —
because we never know our happiness until
we miss it.

The contrast between that past life and
this one she had chosen for herself was very
sharp. But she had no regrets. Her mind
was perfectly at ease. Her memory washer
friend, and she had dwelt incessantly

upon those happy days. In every hour of
peace and rest they came back upon her,
and were almost as real as her miserable
surroundings.

It has been said that the man who can
remember a pleasure can always enjoy it
again. Nor is it necessary that the imagination
should be vivid for such reproduction
of the past. An effort of simple
memory is all that is required, and not
un frequently the vision comes without an
effort.

She slept with the white flower in her
hand.

Doctor Parke came. He entered with
that artistic tread that was one of his
peculiarities in a sick room. He would by
no means have the patient disturbed. He
stood and looked at her for a minute in
silence, Mrs. Elmore by his side.

She is wonderfully beautiful," he said
naturally, as he might speak of a child.

Then they withdrew from the bedside,

and stood speaking in low whispers by the
fire.

Is she worse ? "

Do not be alarmed. There are certain
stages through which she must pass. She
will be worse. Rely entirely on your nurse ;
she knows how to watch for symptoms. I
shall see you again to-night."

To-night ! There must be danger'
Mrs. Elmore's reason took alarm at this.
'You are deceiving me."

The doctor smiled benignantly. " This
is an interesting case," he said. " And
permit me to say, that in my profession a
man is sometimes glad to have an opportunity
of watching certain phases. You will
understand, please, that I visit when I like,
for my own satisfaction. You need not
disturb yourself about fees."

She put out her hand gratefully. He
took it, understanding her action.

I cannot thank you," she said, earnestly ;
but please make no diminution in your

charges. I am fortunately able to pay, and
am glad of the opportunity of having such
advice as yours."

That's well!" And with another reassuring
smile, he left her.

Mrs. Elmore sat down and took up her
book mechanically, and she went on reading
mechanically, until she came to the turning
of a page. Then she dropped the book in
her lap. Even she had science enough to
know that when the mind refused to be fixed
at a certain point it had better wander
where it would.

"Fm only giving;' myself a little harder
work by trying to do that," she thought.

She felt it washer duty to read: therefore,
as a matter of course, she had attempted todo
it. She knew there should be a relief
to the mind, but she also knew she was not
getting it.

And so it had ever been with this scrupulously
honest woman. For all the years
of the prime of her pure life she had conscientiously

striven for the right. She
would do so on her dying bed, and never
know she was at all uncommon among
humanity. " If it is right that this should
be," she had been accustomed to say, " it
shall be." And, although she was not a
woman of peculiar strength of will, it was
astonishing how closely her conscience kept
her to the resolution she had chosen.

A slight movement from Adelaide attracted
her attention. Then there was a
murmur, an uneasy sound of pain.

My dear, are you awake ? "

She went over to the bedside, and saw
at once there was a change. The face was
more flushed, the eyes much brighter ; there
was an altogether strange look about them,
one she could not understand.

That is mamma's voice ; I know it.
Yes ; she is very sweet. You think her
beautiful — so do I. The fading of youth
has little to do with real beauty."

Adelaide ! " said the mother, in a low,
startled voice.

There ! Did you hear ? She called me.
I must go. Don t send so many flowers,
colonel ; it is like so much robbery. You
can have none for yourself."

Mrs. Elmore shrank back in horror.
Memories of the past crowded upon her ;
the dead anguish of years was brought in
vivid life before her. "Anything — anything
but this ! " was the unuttered cry of her
heart.

"You are quite worn out, madam," said
the nurse, sympathetically. " Let me advise
you to rest awhile."

She saw the intensity of pain expressed
by the shrinking form and horror-stricken
face, and quietly led Mrs. Elmore to an
adjoining room, finding no opposition and
expecting none.

But there is something in it I do not
understand," she thought, as she went back
alone.

Adelaide was sitting up. " I cannot stay
here all day," she said. " I've too much

to do. Mamma, I do wish you would
consider what my position is ! I've a magnificent
constitution for work, and all I
have the chance of doing is for my own
amusement."

You shall have plenty of work' said the
nurse, soothingly; " but, with a bad cold like
yours, you can't go out in an east wind."

No." She lay down again quietly.
The colonel says an east wind always
makes him ill-tempered. I don't believe it !
He has such perfect self-control. He is
just my notion of what a man ought to be —
strong and certain. Don't you think so ? "

I do, indeed. And, knowing that he
would disapprove of your going out, or even
moving under present circumstances, I'm
sure you will see what is best."

Oh ! if he says so, yes. But you're
sure he did ? How long have you known
him ? Long enough to know that trick he
has with his hand when talking on a subject
in which he is interested ? ' 3

'? Oh yes ! "

Now, what is it ? "

The voice was unlike Adelaide's ; it was
light and silvery, just like Kate's now, as
she made the lio-ht retort.

The nurse put a cool hand upon her forehead.
" You must be still ; he desired it.
Don't talk any more — now. I'll tell you
about him another time."

The nurse was a sensible woman, whom
people called " a plain common-sense person,"
not knowing the height of the compliment
they paid. She was plain, as far as features
were concerned, but the intelligence of her
eyes and mouth redeemed the plainness to
a wonderful extent. She was said to have
great control over her patients. Doctor
Parke did not hesitate to say it was by
force of mental power. " She can make
herself the friend of the most troublesome,
contradictory, whimsical creature, and can
lead him by the nose," he had said to
Bathurst.

Later in the day, the nurse posted a
letter. As she glanced at the address, an
idea crossed her mind. " Suppose this
gentleman who takes so great an interest
should be ' the colonel ' ? It's not unlikely ;
he has a military bearing." And the nurse
smiled to herself, as she thought how reciprocal
was the interest between those two.

When Bathurst received the letter, he was
moodily reading the Times. He had lost
his zest for politics just now. He was in
that stage when one subject only could
engross him, and ideas of it mixed inconsistently
with anything he did.

There was really very little in the note,
yet he read it over a score of times.

Sir,

Doctor Parke considers it necessary
to see Miss Elmore this evening. I
thought you might probably wish to receive
the last account from him. He will be hereabout
nine. 5 '

There was really nothing in the note, but
it gave him sufficient food for conjecture
until the hour arrived.

As Doctor Parke's carriage came into the
street at one end, Bathurst came in at the
other. He met the doctor when he returned
from the house.

Nurse told me you would be here," said
Parke. " Jump in. I'm now going some
distance — twelve miles out. I can drop you
where you like. It's a fine night, and a
walk would be pleasant."

"Thank you," said Bathurst, accepting
the offer vaguely. " How are things going ? n

As well as we can expect. We
haven't come to the worst. She's a very
interesting patient, I can assure you."

Bathurst did not doubt this for one
moment.

On this dark November night, the men
could see each other's faces only by the dim
reflection of the carriage lights, or by the
flash of a chance of gaslight. When Bathurst

entered that carriage, the farthest
thing from his intention was to take a perfect
stranger into his confidence. But then,
he was innocently unaware that the stranger
was a very acute man, who understood
human nature in one sense as truly as he
did in another. He knew the mind needed
diversion, he knew that it relieved mental
depression to talk out upon a matter ; so he
proceeded.

Interesting in a double sense. I have
given some consideration to the employment
of women — the proper employment of women
of the humbler classes. Not because the
thing requires less consideration, as it regards
women of higher classes, but because one
can interfere in the one case, and in the
other one cannot. Mrs. Elmore briefly explained
away the peculiarity of their position
in such a house, and led me to understand
that for some years her daughter had been
anxious to adopt some line of life in which
she could assist the poor. Now, a certain

class of mind, and a mind of high moral
tone, frequently runs towards such a channel
as this. The prospect is enticing.
Have you reason to believe that this young
lady has been disappointed in the outset of
her career ? "

No," replied Bathurst. " Have you
formed such an opinion ? "

I've not had the opportunity of forming
any. But that is the usual result."

I think it is a very unfortunate thing,
setting aside this calamity, that she should
have undertaken such a life."

So do I," said the doctor.

Excuse me — will you tell me why you
think so ? "

Certainly. In the first place, one thing
cannot be overlooked. Her beauty alone —
and I should judge that she is also a very
fine woman — would be a strong detriment.
In the next place, she has no home here.
That, with such a woman, becomes almost a
necessity."

I quite agree with you," said Bathurst,
warmly.

Instantaneously he cast it over in his
mind that the opinion of this man might
have some weight with Mrs. Elmore.

You have not, I presume, attempted to
dissuade her ? " asked the doctor.

I ? ' said Bathurst, desperately. " I
have no right to do so. I wish I had."

Ah ! I see. You are not a relative."

I have no control whatever. My
interest, in a general sense, arises from two
or three common facts, and one peculiar
one. These ladies rent a house on my
estate, and during the summer a nephew of
mine, who met with an accident, received
remarkable kindness at their hands."

Yes. Gratitude, however, is not a common
virtue, though it follows a common
fact. Has the lady no male relative, who
could represent the real impropriety of the
proceeding ? "

Impropriety ? " echoed the colonel.

It is an impropriety for her. I speak ina
general sense. Do you know of such a
person ? ,:

I believe they stand quite alone in the
world. There are two other daughters.
They are all delightful people. But their
great disadvantage is that they have no one
to guide them. And ladies, such as these,
living a secluded life, do not understand the
world at all."

That makes the position worse still."

It does," said Bathurst, excitedly.
"Yes, that's what I've seen all along."

You have never said so ? "

I'm not in the position."

Hem ! Some one will be in that position
before long — when men have a chance of
knowing Miss Elmore."

This was a fair shot ; Parke expected it
to tell. And it did ; although not in the
way he expected. Bathurst was off his
guard, and said, hastily —

"No, that's quite out of the question."

Parke laughed. " Out of the question,
with such attractive women as these ?
You mystify me."

I was mystified myself once. I spoke
inadvertently ; but I was interested in what
you were saying."

"You are perfectly safe. In my profession
men frequently hold the keys of the
closet where the family skeleton is kept.
You need be under no anxiety for having
stated a common fact. By-the-bye, perhaps
that was the ' peculiar ' fact you mentioned.
Have I heard all the ' common ' ones ? "

All that bear upon the case."

"I see. Well, it is a peculiar fancy to
take possession of such people, one that I
should not hesitate to say, in common parlance,
would end in smoke."

That is a natural conclusion, and a
rational one, I thought, when it was mine."

Then you have changed it ?

Of necessity. As you say — there is no
breach of confidence, especially in consulting

you in a matter of science. The other half
of the fact is — that the husband of Mis.
Elmore, and the father of these girls, died ina
lunatic asylum."

Parke was silent — ominously silent. Bathurst
knew.

That is — awkward," he said at last

There's no way out of is," said Bathurst.
unconsciously quoting Reilly's expressive
phrase.

"Yes ; the mystery is quite cleared up —
quite. Of course, my hypothesis is out of
court. The daughters — do they know this '. '

I cannot tell. I should think so. What
other reason could have been even for their
seclusion ? They are all too clever to accept
any fanciful excuse."

You are not in possession of any of the
actual facts with regard to the madness of
this gentleman ? "

Xo. But I think the fact speaks for
itself.

It does speak for itself. It would deter
vol. ii. 34

any man of high moral tone from proposing
to a lady, though, unfortunately, it might not
deter him from falling in love with her. \t
is entirely a question of moral capacity."

Undoubtedly. I can't believe the knowledge
would prevent a man, as you say — "
said Bathurst, hesitating. " There — I need
not equivocate — I see my secret is out ! I
don't know how a man could very well keep
it, placed as I am."

Nor I," said Parke. " Although "

You are too good a player to lose a
game of that kind. Tell me what you
meant."

It is cruel to raise false hopes," said the
doctor, thoughtfully. " I think it would be
as well to inform yourself of the whole
circumstance, since you are in ignorance.
I do not see any gleam of hope ; I only give
you the hint as to where there is a remote
possibility of finding one."

I have no earthly means of discovering.
I am not supposed to be in the secret."

easier."

How so ? To attempt to gain — to gam
by accident — the affection of the lady would
be a betrayal of all "

Exactly. I did not counsel that. remember
that —

1 Nice customs curtsy to great kings,'

and that theories are all very well till we
come to practice, and then indefinite instinct
teaches us, if we have sense enough to be
guided, that men's brains are needed as well
as theories in individual cases. What two
positions are ever alike — in every detail \
Although in their broad foundations positions
are amazingly similar."

Notwithstanding; Parke's extinction of a
gleam of hope, Bathurst caught at the vague
idea with avidity.

I think I'd better get out here, or I

shall lose tracks. Thank you exceedingly
"

CHAPTER XV.

LIFE IS NOT FOR REST."

Seeing how painfully Mrs. Elmore was
affected when her daughter's mind wandered,
the nurse was careful to keep her away at
such times.

It is no nervous fancy on my part,"
explained Mrs. Elmore ; " it is a long and
dreaded horror — that is ever before me !
Do you distinguish any difference in people
when the mind is so affected in illness ? "

Indeed I do. The difference is very
great. Your daughter, in the worst wanderings
of her mind, is perfectly sensible in her
ideas. With some patients one has to listen
to wild raving nonsense. She is talking
quite rationally, although she does not know
what she is talking about."

Is that a good symptom, do you think S

I don't think it has anything to do with
the fever, but I think it goes to show that
the brain power is capable of a severe strain.
Don't you ? I will ask Doctor Parke.
I believe that is so."

Knowing as she did how critical Adelaide's
condition was, she managed to get Mrs.
Elmore away by stratagem for the next
hour.

"I shall want you later," she said. "I
must have you w T with me in the morning.'
And the mother submitted to rest in the
adjoining room accordingly.

The nurse sat by Adelaide's bed, and
soothed her with gentle words.

What do you say?" murmured Adelaide,
restlessly. " I know I am ill, but I don't
seem to remember anything about it."

You do not want to remember. Don't
try. You are getting well "

No, no ; I am worse. I know, too, that
I have been saying foolish, wild things.

Are they more foolish than people sometimes
say when they are sane ? "

Never miDcl ; you have only spoken tome."


Oh yes, to you ; and you know all about
him. I mean trust you. But you are not
honest enough to say I am going to die ;
you think I could not bear that. But I'm
not afraid — not afraid."

Now rest," said the nurse, soothingly
touching the hot hand that was thrown
restlessly across the bed.

Well, I shall have all rest soon ! Life is
not for rest. When you see him, will you
tell him that I love him ? Don't, please,
say, ' She loved you,' as though that were a
thing of the past — as though I were a thing
of the past — but repeat my words. Say,
although I am dead, that I love him —
mind you don't say that I loved him — for
love doesn't die, you know."

No, no," said the nurse, an unruly tear
coming into her eye.

She winked it quickly away ; she was
ashamed of such weakness. That was not
part of her duty.

But the good woman was irrational
enough to suppose that it was her duty to
give some hint of this to Bathurst on the
following day. And her case was quite clear
to herself ; for every brood woman is touched
bv the sorrow of true lovers, and no argument
could have induced her to believe that
those two people were not lovers, even
though, there might be no acknowledgment
between them.

Throughout the long hours of that dreary
night, in the wild excitement of her sick
brain, the poor girl pursued the shadow of
the man she unsuspectingly loved. She loved
in all pure singleness of heart, neither reckoning
on hi regard nor recognizing her own.

And this is love, and this alone —
Not counting loss
Nor grudging gain —
That builds its life into a throne,
And bids the idol reign,"

Says an old poem, and it is many a good
woman's practice, if it does not quite answer
to her theory.

For the third time that day Bathurst
found himself haunting that wretched
street. He seemed to have no aim but to be

there.

For a spirit in his feet
Toad led him, Heaven knows how,
To thy chamber window sweet."

At last, in the dim twilight, he discerned a
woman's figure coming; out of that dismal
house.

Can I do anything ? " he said.

You are very good." She hesitated. It
would be really kind in her to give him
something to do, and let him think he was
assisting.

Yes ; I should be glad of your help," she
said. " There are several things you can get
for me. You said I must not hesitate."

<c Hesitate ? I will search every shop, or
take any means "

A smile would find way on the nurse's
passive face. " He is willing to go to the
North Pole," she thought ; and then the
smile faded out, and she sighed after the
manner of women over the signs and tokens
of a love-affair.

But Bathurst had not seen the smile ; it
was too dark. He had only paused in the
middle of his speech, and he now went on
hurriedly, " Hadn't you better give me a
list ? I might forget something."

She promised to do so.

And Miss Elmore — are her spirits good ?
that is to say, does she appear cheerful — I
mean calm 2 "

She appears exceedingly happy just
now. She is in that stage when the mind
wanders, and luckily she does not revert to
past difficulties, nor conjure up horrors.
She dwells upon entirely happy incidents."

Yes ? " said Bathurst, inquiringly.

One can gather from her talk the beauty
and comfort with which she has been surrounded.

She sometimes appears to be holding
a conversation, and will answer me quite
rationally when I reply."

Indeed % " said Bathurst. " The subject
is of her home and friends ? "

It was quite excusable that, however
discreet, but being still a woman, the nurse
should say that which she did say. People
must arrive at conclusions, and there could
be but one arise in this good woman's mind.
Here was a romance ; and she must have a
finger in it, with discretion. Whatever the
difficulty which caused this gentleman to be
obliged to hide himself and his kindness,
as though he dreaded discovery, she could
not tell. But one thing she thought she
could tell — that he was most faithfully
devoted to her beautiful charge, and, if she
had any discernment at all, it was equally
certain that this man was the object of the
girl's constant thought. She went on
innocently —

The principal object — indeed, the one

that seems to engross her entire thought — is
of a gentleman she addresses as l Colonel."

o

I have never heard her mention any name.
Perhaps, sir, you may know the gentleman
yourself ? "

"Perhaps I do," said Bathurst, sturdily.

It must be owned he was a little overcome
by the information.

Well, sir, if you do, all I can say is I
hope he's aware he has gained the love of
such a sweet girl. I suppose it is a mutual
affection, for she seems to have no cause
for regret."

Yes, that is very likely," agreed the
colonel, finding this plain statement almost
too much for his feelings. In his mind
such thought had not been permitted to
rise, and here was a stranger discussing it
in a commonplace manner. Truly, he
was the victim of a strange caprice of
Fate.

He was glad to be alone. He went over
the ground rapidly enough, his spirits unreasonably

elated. It was an unreasonable
elation ; he told himself that. Still —

'Tis sweet to know there is an eye will mark
Our coming, and look brighter when we come."

Friendship might not be love, but he felt it
would be a pleasant thing to have a friend
like Adelaide. Of course, rivalry was out of
all question. That is the thing, he thought,
to drive a man mad. There was do rival to
be feared, even in their friendship. When
we cannot have all that we want, we must
be satisfied with half, and he knew he would
rather have this half than anything else the
world had to give him.

Perfectly indifferent to comment or
curiosity, he went on his various errands,
anxious only to acquire what he wanted.

This done, there was nothing left but to
go back to the Crown. There were great
playbills staring him in the face. A provincial
company he had long wished to see
was playing a popular drama that would

naturally have taken his attention. He
gazed blankly at the announcement. He was
fully aware that no play ever produced, and
no actors who ever acted, could chain his
attention this night. He bethought himself
of Reilly. He would write to him ; he
would write explanatorily. He would give
him the hint Parke had given to himself.
At any rate, he would leave no stone unturned,
although, he resolutely determined
not to allow himself to be deluded. However,
on referring to that last letter of Reilly,
he saw that it would not reach him now.
He had said, " If you want to write during
the next week ; " so who could tell where he
might be now ? Certainly he might send on
a letter on the chance of its being forwarded ;
and that he did.

CHAPTER XVI.

WHICH OF THE MEN IS IT ? "

The days were long and weary for the two
girls at the Glade, who were entirely dependent
on each other for society. Each
had to acknowledge a restless dissatisfaction,
and each attributed it to a natural anxiety
for their mother and sister. They had just
received an assurance that all danger was
past ; but although they experienced all the
relief this knowledge could give, neither
could acknowledge she was quite herself.

I am quite grateful to Sunday for coming
round at its appointed time ; are u< >t
you, Mary? What with worrying about
Dell and mamma, and your excessive dullness
" Here Kate checked herself with

a laugh. " Which has been the flattest, do
you think ? M

Mary shook her head responsively.

Well, it's gratifying to know we may go
outside these hio-h walls for once ; that we

o

may go to church without objection, to do
anything — do you think etiquette requires
us to ask Colonel Bathurst's permission ?
We must closely resemble state prisoners."

I don't know," replied Mary, absently.
I was just then thinking it was a singular
thing that the colonel should have asked us
not to mention his absence in our letters'

Oh ! he thought it might disturb niarn-
ma unnecessarily. There's no doubt he was
compelled to leave ; for it was understood
that in the event of any difficulty, we were
to appeal to him."

Yes ; but I am still unconvinced."

Then she turned and looked at Kate to
see if she could read her own suspicion in
those eyes that could but tell tales. No ;
their soft depths were quite undisturbed.

I always did think myself the wickedest
of our family," Kate observed, with apparent
irrelevance.

Don't be too sure of that. Every one
knows the worst of your wickedness ; no one
guesses where mine begins."

Oh ! every one knows it is a law with
saints to think themselves wicked ! ,:

As they walked rapidly in the clear morning
air, their spirits insensibly rose, and they
were more at ease away from the house,
which had become so dreary.

Going along the avenue, they met the
rector. After greeting, Kate and he walked
on, while Mary lingered. She always kept
in the background. This she regretted an
hour later, for Kate informed her on their
homeward walk that she had promised to
go and assist in decorating the church for
Christmas.

Mrs. Dormer is not well enough. And
only those two old, young ladies, who
always look like graven images belonging

to the ancient pile, have volunteered ; so,
you see, I couldn't refuse. And I promised
to bring you."

"•'You were wrong to promise anything,

Kate. I'm sure mamma "

'•' AVould not disapprove if she were here."
Exactly. But she is not here."
Oh, Mary, you are always so provokingly
right! Yet of what earthly consequence
can it be whether I spend an hour
with Mr. Dormer and the two old maids,
whether I tear my hand with holly thorns,
or get stuck in a snow drift ? What, indeed,
can it matter what shall happen tome
? I am of no possible use in the
world, which rives me the strongest
reason that I might be of some use out
of it — at least, as much as was Imperial

Ci "

caesar.

Philosophy is evidently your forte."
Cease your sarcasm ; you can't understand
me. You were never meant for a
heroine. At least, I never came across one
vol. ii. 35

who was a cool, deliberate lump of perfection
—

1 Dead perfection — nothing more.'
You wouldn't be the least interesting as a,
heroine."

"Define heroine."

Oh, you know what I mean."

How should I ? The word is so misused."


Well, take any example in the whole
range of history, poetry, or fiction. Not
even genius could do anything with a
character like yours," laughed Kate. " But,
ah me ! my heart is heavy, though I jest."

I refuse to be classed with any women
in the range of history," returned Mary,
didactically. " Some of them were merely
notorious for their bad behaviour, or from
accidental prominence during some very
mundane climax. A heroine should be a
woman who has performed a heroic deed."

You can't alter a law upon a point that
is already received. Certainly, in fiction

generally, one could seldom accuse the prominent
woman of even attempting an act
of heroism."

They are false heroines, termed so by
courtesy from their association with the hero."

Then they are false heroines. Shakespeare
did not let his shine only in reflected
glory. I wonder if we are very different
from ordinary women ? "

Kate asked the question with an air of
grave perplexity.

How can I tell ? " interrogated Mary,
with her rare smile.

I wish I knew ! I wish, for a thousand
reasons, I could find out ! "

One will do. Give me one ? '

"Well, for instance, take the case — seldom
be it granted — take the case of our meeting
those gentlemen. It is wretchedly
irritating not to know what one is risrht in
doing — or in saying. One would not like a
man to — make a mistake about one just
because of some trifling unconventionaiity.*'

That man would be a fool," said Mary,
shortly. " But — is this you ? You are fit fora
heroine of any degree. You are carelessly
insolent in your general manner to meD,
and yet you fear being guilty of a small
inaccuracy. You change characters as
quickly as "

There — there ! spare that poor used-up
chameleon, a creature who has been basely
treated for ages. Is it amazing I should
try to reform, when you have all said my
manners wanted improvement ? It's only
natural to care what people think."

Natural — but very commonplace.
Wouldn't do at all for a heroine. You do
not care for ' people.' We are above ordinary
desires, as we are beyond the pale of ordinary
perplexities. Such things ought not to
annoy you."

I wish you would, for once, say something
that is not just the apex of wisdom.
I know it doesn't matter what any one
li inks of me."

Don't be cross, love ! Which of the men
is it ? "

Which ? which ? ' stammered Kate,
blushing furiously. " Why — why, all of
them ! I like men. I — I find them amusing
" Then she broke off abruptly. " I

am amazed to hear such light talk from
you, and I'm glad we are home."

The snow fell fast all that night and all
the next day.

On Tuesday there was a hard frost ; still,
Kate prepared to start in the middle of the
day. It would do her good, she said, and
so she set off, walking rapidly along the
narrow trodden path, the whole landscape
looking still as fresh and pure and undisturbed
as when the snow had fallen. The
icy air made her cheeks bright ; the exercise
warmed her blood. She felt glad to her very
finger-tips, from the mere sense of freedom
and motion, as young things do — unreasonably
glad, perhaps ; but the sensation
was pleasant.

She was near the church now, and, for
the first time since she started, a human
creature became visible ; one of the sex
for whom she had lately stated her predilection.
It was not Mr. Dormer, nor
was it either of the farmers, whose gait she
knew well ; the figure reminded her strongly
of one, the very thought of whom sent the
blood dancing more vigorously through her
veins. It was impossible, of course. She
would not be beguiled by a delusion ; so
she turned away her head from the solitary
pedestrian, and entered the church.

The Misses Siskin were already there.
They had brought some very stiff* wreaths
on wire, some few crosses of Maltese shape,
and there their invention had stopped.
They were very stiff, almost as stiff as the
monumental figures beside them. Certainly
it was cold ; the church was very cold ; even
Rates warm energy felt the check. Still,
she entered at once into the spirit of the
work, shaking off the chill of the impression

with her strong vitality. She did not
address the ladies, for Miss Siskin, who
was near her, as she walked towards the
chancel, pointedly kept her head aside.
Kate was born to be social, free, and
natural ; and slight as this incident was, it
had an unpleasant effect upon her. How
should she know it was her beauty, added
to the fact of her family's seclusion, that
caused her to be regarded with suspicious
eyes ?

The rector then met her. He regretted
his wife's absence and the severity of the
weather, also that he had no taste in the
matter of decoration himself. The young
ladies upon whom he generally depended
were absent. To all which Kate replied
by pleasantly inquiring, since there were
no instructions, whether she might do as
she liked. Receiving absolute permission,
she stepped out into the aisle to take a
general survey of the points of vantage.

There was very little beauty in the interior

of the edifice ; it was dilapidated, inharmonious,
and heavy. Still, a bold design might
persuade a casual observer into an impression
of beauty. Those too lofty pillars might
be considerably lowered in effect, if by any
possibility she could reach them.

Fired with the idea, and remembering the
old sexton was engaged in cutting ivy from
the porch, she went hastily down the aisle,
with eyes raised thoughtfully to the roof.

Suddenly coming in contact with something
substantial, where she had not expected
it, she started back, and out from
the gloomy shadows of the background she
recognized — Vivian Seymour.

CHAPTER XVII.

"LOVE abides.

11 let the solid ground

Not fail beneath my feet
Before my life has found

What some have found so sweet ! "

He did not start. He had stood awaiting
her, and now her surprised eyes met his soft
blue ones smiling on hers.

Their hands met. The colour that rushed
into her face might have been caused by the
surprise, perhaps by the touch.

He gazed at her with a feeling akin to
adoration. Heaven seemed to open to each
at the mere sight of the other's face.

You ? " Kate whispered, breathlessly.

u I/' he answered ; and the brief sound

conveyed supreme and undisguised satisfaction.


I thought you were in Leamington."

So I was yesterday — you were right. "

Surely Colonel Bathurst did not expect
you ? " she said, haltingly.

He smiled at the simplicity of her remark.
I can't contradict that. I had no idea he
was away from home."

She smiled now. " And that is no affair
of mine — is it ? " she said, nervously.

Vivian felt those signs of discomposure
peculiarly grateful to him.

I wish I could make it your affair
altogether," he said, with low tender
emphasis, keeping his glowing eyes on hers.

Kate's colour changed again at this. All
the roses faded. Bravely did she battle
with a too conscious heart.

That would be rather hard on Colonel
Bathurst," she said, lightly.

He admired her all the more, seeing she
made the effort.

Forgive me. My wish is to secure your
interest to myself."

Mr. Seymour, I can only absolve you
from the absurdity of that remark by remembering
how I have encouraged you to
talk nonsense."

You have never encouraged me to talk
of that which is nearest to my heart. You
always resort to nonsense."

I wish with all my heart I could give
you the serious attention you desire," she
said, catching her breath, and adding hastily,
I am here on business — I ought to be hard
at work. Do you see that heap of evergreens
? I mean to put that all in shape
while the daylight lasts."

Delightful ! I'm good at this sort of
thing. AYhat can I do ? "

Have you nothing— better ? "

"There is but one thing better, but I
could not sit and look at you. You would
not let me. I'll do exactly as I am
told."

Well, then, get me any amount of ivy
from the old man outside."

It was an awkward position, but there
was no way out of it, and there was plenty
of occupation. She could keep him hard at
work. He would scratch his hands, and
climb ladders, and do anything she might
order. She knew that. And then — then
the situation had its charm.

Kate went on vigorously with twice and
scissors.

Any one less interested must have been
amused to see him return laden with ivy,
and the old sexton similarly laden behind
him. She, however, was not amused ; she
was alarmed at the difficulty before her, and
knew it would be much harder than decorating
the church. She sent him to mount
the ladder first, but he could not perform
the delicate handling that was required to
fasten the wire and twine.

She had to mount, and he to obey every
inclination of her hand. He was quite

happy to attend upon that exquisitely
graceful girl poised above him, and to be
ever passing to and fro the holly or the
scissors.

"We are getting ahead of the Buskins,"
he said. " But then, we work much
harder. "

Yes ; and don't you think we're producing
something like an effect ? '

Vivian paused. The intensity of his admiration
was too deep for words.

They were producing an effect beyond the
decorations. Those poor ladies, who were so
innocently aiding the propriety of the situation,
had at last given up eyebrow and lip
signals, and had whispered their views concerning
this majestic young woman who
could trust herself at such a dangerous altitude,
and who, in her plain, unfashionable
frown. looked to their eves like a statue
clothed.

I declare it's quite shocking ! quite ! "'

A plain dress without furbelows was

almost indecent to their inartistic eyes, and
they glanced at their own humps and puddings
and deformities of fashion with more
than usual complacency.

You were surprised to see me to-day ?
I don't seem to remember being away — now
I am back again."

Indeed ? I had no idea you were ever
coming back."

"No? My enjoyment has been rather
limited on this occasion. I found every
entertainment, from beginning to end, weariness
and depression of spirit."

How well he described her own sensations
!

You were out of tune — pass this cord
to the opposite pillar, please. Yes, that's a
capital effect. We are getting on ! Now,
you take the next pillar, and I will take the
further one. We shall get it all complete in
half an hour."

He obeyed, and worked steadily. The
rector came in again, and they had ten

minutes' talk. The old gentleman could not
help expressing his surprise at such an
assistant being; found. But Vivian exo



planned his presence most composedly, according
to his wont.

Ah ! she's a most charming young lady
Elmore," Mr. Dormer said, feelingly.
She is sufficient inducement to any man
to take up an entirely new occupation. You
prefer peace to war — is it not so ? "

"And now the aisle is nearly finished,"
Kate said a little later, when Vivian came
for fresh instructions, " I think I must do
something to the pulpit, as it belongs to the
centre aisle."

Well, let me help you. Don't send me
anywhere else."

It was a ridiculous appeal, but as pathetic
to her as to him. The boom of the old
clock struck upon their ears.

' The clock is striking in the belfry tower.'
I," he said, " am always reminded of
your singing by even the faintest association.

I heard your voice first in this church.
How does the song go ?

And warns us of the ever-fleeting hour,
But neither heeds the time which onward glides,
For time may pass away, but love abides — '

But love abides.' I know it — feel that it is
so. Have you learnt that lesson ? ,: he
asked, in his low charmed murmur.

A warm flood of pleasure filled her veins.
All her limbs trembled. She touched the
stone monument for momentary support. It
felt like ice against the hand that glowed
with passionate warmth.

Was this love ? The thought gave her
pause. If only this intense sensation could
last for ever ! Was it possible this passion,
put so far away from her, was still a part of
her ? Love ? " Love abides."

"Some ivy," she said, in a quick sharp tone.

Was she annoyed ? Had he offended her,
even while he strove to keep both voice and
eye under restraint ? Was the roseate glow
due to anger ?

Kate ! "

It was an involuntary murmur, the tone
of tender appeal. The sweet word lingered
on the air ; she dared not breathe to break
the silence that followed. Alas ! she read
the confusion and passion of another soul at
that spasmodic word. Absorbed in her own
danger, she had not thought of his. Her
brain reeled and. her pulse throbbed as she
recognized how weak they both were. She
had a foreknowledge, that kind of prescience
the most timid girl often possesses, which
told her the time had come. This was what
she would have escaped, but the forces of
nature were too strong for her to set aside.
Her strange startled quietness urged him to
speak

You — you understand me, Kate ? Don't
keep me in the misery of doubt." He held
at random a branch of holly towards the
limp hand that fell by her side. " You are
no vain coquette, Kate. You will tell me
by one glance."

vol. ii. 36

She grasped the holly mechanically, and
the sharp prickly leaves ran into her ring'
but she did not know it ; she was almost as
white as the marble now, and her face was
averted. She feared to let her eyes rest on
him, lest they should speak out the truth.
There was an intense struggle in the girl's
mind, and she knew she feared herself.
Dry, crisp, uneven words found way, the
effort to utter them bravely entirely failing.

Not another word. You have no right
to say — such thing."

I have just the right any honest man
has to tell a girl he loves her. I am not
ashamed."

And now came a supreme moment. This
inexperienced girl felt at once the demand
upon her higher nature. She had not
realized the intoxicating enjoyment this
long love-dream had been to her, and now
it rose in judgment against her, for she knew
she had yielded to the dream.

All her warm impulse was stayed. Ointment

before, she was a loving, impulsive
girl, palpitating for a lover's embrace ; the
next — a woman !

She rose to the height, and knew it.
Her strength had come with her pain.
He must be saved ! In that one thought
her true womanhood asserted herself. She
must save him ; that was all.

She looked at him reproachfully. "Have
you not known that we — I and my sisters —
stand apart altogether — from the world ? "

Certainly — yes. And I believe that you
are convinced, but I am note*'

The circumstances do not admit of explanation.
You must take my word. I —
I am o'oino- now."

She put out her hand unconsciously for
his assistance. But when his hand grasped
hers, the latent passion in her sprung into
life. Her brave young spirit fought hard
for self-command, though she could not utter
the words " thank you," when she stood on
level ground beside him.

If you are going, I am going too," he
said.

Still she did not speak, nor did she look
at him. How strange and unreal the old
grey church seemed to her ! Surely she had
never seen the little miserable, cramped
pulpit until this moment.

Will you go ? " she asked, vaguely.

I am going with you," he said, decisively.

"Without another word, she turned and
walked down the aisle, leaving the evergreens
just where they had fallen.

As they walked down the dim aisle, side
by side, the Misses Ruskin regarded them
with extreme interest.

They have left the pulpit unfinished
whispered the elder, as they went to look
at it.

And here are. her gloves — and his cane !
Can they have forgotten them ? " asked the
other.

Kate and Vivian had passed out into the
cold, cheerless landscape. Landscape there

was none ; the bare branches, snow-laden,
were the only landmarks.

■' Very deep — is it not ? " he said.

Kate heard his voice, but her mind did
not follow. But he was right, and he
recognized the fact to himself — "it was
very deep." And she, in the midst of her
passionate confusion, was trying to find a
course that should be safer, easier than
another, rapidly making a decision, and dissolving
it with a thought.

"Mr. Seymour," she said at last, "I must
earnestly wish that you would go."

Do not dismiss me so summarily. You
say I have done wrong. I must know more
before I can admit that I was wrong."

He spoke in a low impressive voice. She
knew he meant to persevere.

I shall never give you up, unless —
Leave that — I don't believe in the e unless.' u

If you are convinced of a positive
barrier, you will not let the memory of a few
weeks ruin your life — you will give me up."

I shall — when I am convinced."
There is a real and terrible reason ;
one that, for my mother's sake, I cannot
speak of — a reason so strong that no argument
can overcome it." Her words were low
and emphatic ; she hesitated not for words,
but because, to save her life, she could not
have stayed the tremor of voice and limb.
:i I would not mislead you, and not for
worlds would I permit you to mislead yourself.
You do not know what you ask. The
secret will remain a secret in our family.
No good can come of its being known. Pray
be satisfied. . Do you, for one moment, think
we can be all equally misled ? "

Now it was his turn to reflect. She
thought he was considering her explanation.
He was designing how to surprise her into a
confession. He knew she was not indifferent
to him, and he also knew that that fact,
once admitted, would alter his position
materially. He affected coldness. He spoke
as though he were hurt and pained.

Yes, I understand you perfectly, and I
will not argue against you. There is no
man living with more pride than I. It is
not a question of ultimate result at this
moment. The die is cast for me. If you
were free tomorrow, I would not take you
not loving, for love — "love sacrifices all
things to bless the tiling it loves.' In love
all selfish considerations disappear. A
mother — sacred as she is — can but be
second. Even life itself is worthless n

But not honour ! Would you have love
injure the thing it loves ? "

I would have love honest to the thing it
loves."

Am I not honest ? "

Perhaps. To the thing you love — not
to me.

She flushed angrily, then paled again.
How can I be more honest than to tell
you plainly I dare not in honour betray the
secret that prevents me from loving anyone
? "

"Not all the secrets since the world
began can do that ! " he said, boldly. " I
tell you nothing will induce me to give you
up, unless — I will finish the sentence now —
unless you can tell me you do not care for me."

There was an element in Kate's nature
that loved danger. She loved sailing close
to the wind. " I know what you are doing
now," she said, quickly. " You have been
thinking — e She will betray herself.' It
was a mean attempt " She was working
herself up into something very like anger
now. " But you don't know that the admission
would make no difference to me." She
looked at him, and the flash in her eyes
showed him a spirit he had never seen there
before. She held her head up in proud
defiance as she went on, the fire of her
anger cooling the fire of her love. " I am
not going to take refuge in a paltry admission
of ' caring ' for you. And if I admit
that I love you, is that any worse than the
thing itself?"

There is no worse," he murmured, feeling
really amazed that she, who had been
hitherto so retiring, so quietly accepting
with light retort, should rise to passion so
suddenly.

That is no reply. Do you think the
admission could by any possibility affect my
action ? I'm sure you did think so ! Don't
think that of me again. I thought you were
above trick — Silence is consent. No — We
shall be on equal ground now. You will
understand me perfectly when I say I do love
you above everything on earth, and because
I do is the very reason why I must save you."

His face, usually so calm, was now
transformed with all the light and speech
of a lover's rapture.

She stood a perfect contrast beside him,
her living, burning words seeming to issue
from stone, so cold and still was she.

Firm in his belief that the " ruling
passion conquers reason still 1 he waited in
silent ecstasy.

Almost as if she had read his thought,
she said, " I think, even with my small
experience, I ought to be able to forgive
you for that belief in the strength of confessed
passion. Oh ! but my passion is for
right ! Tempt me as you may, nothing
can affect me. I believe in the force of
human will against human passion."

He stood almost devouring her with his
longing, loving eyes. She was absolutely
grand to him now.

A beautiful, loving, gay, pure girl ! In
this character she had won his heart from
the first moment. As a woman, in her
anger and self-reliance and strength, she
won his soul.

Why, if my love were less, I should
not hesitate to sacrifice you. Do not think
1 am hampered with exaggerated ideas of
obedience ? I have been brought up in the
school of love. Love can wrong no one.
It is because my mothers rule is love that
I love her too much to wrong her. If

every girl bad a mother like mine, she
could not deceive that mother by word
or deed. I am glad I have spoken out !

Think of me as you will " And now

the flash in the eyes had died out, and
her face was calm. " 1 cannot play a mean,
dissembling part ; it is not in me. I've

known you loved me all along " Her

voice trembled. She held out her hand.
Good-bye ! But I did not think — it was

SO

I'm not going to say ' good-bye ' like
that ; ' J but he took her hand all the same,
and kept it.

You'll do just what I ask you," she
said, looking into his eyes solemnly. He
bowed his head over the hand he held.
You will remember me with gratitude —
one day."

They were near the great prison-like gate,
and she he loved was leaving him ; but this
could uot depress Vivian Seymour. Had
she not avowed that she loved him ? After

this, the deluge ! He gave a rapid glance
around ; surely, on such a day as this, in
so retired a spot, the coast must be clear.
No ! Here, within earshot, already came a
simple countryman, evidently bound for that
same gate. Under cover of his approach,
Kate hurriedly vanished.

Now — if it had not been for that

accursed milkman " muttered Vivian.

He left the sentence unfinished.

CHAPTER XVIII.

REMORSE MUST BE AGONY ! "

Kate entered the house so much agitated
that she was quite beyond the idea of
covering her confusion. She went hastily
into the morning-room, without considering:
she would certainly find Mary there. This
room — the room that had been given upto
Vivian — was lighter and more cheerful
than the dining-room, and was used by
the family a great deal at all times. But
since Mrs. Elmore had been away, the girls
had habitually lived in this room. It was
a most enticing, comfortable apartment, and
now, with its blazing fire, bright lights,
and closely drawn curtains, it was a realization
of repose.

Mary was seated at the table, occupied
with her pencil, books, and drawing materials.
She herself was a vision of sedate enjoyment.
Just glancing up, she said, " Why,
Kate, how late you are ! You look scared."
Kate ! The commonplace words were offensive
to her. Nothing to her mind could be
commonplace again. "Have you seen a
ghost 1 "

There was an animated struggle in Kate's
mind ; then she said, in bitter accents,
« Yes — I can answer question meant fora
jest with an answer that doesn't exactly
match."

Now, Mary bestowed more than a casual
glance at her sister, and found that the
brilliancy of her eyes denoted more than
the excitement wrought by twining holly
wreaths.

Kate," she said, gravely and lovingly,
I don't like that voice ; it isn't yours."

Kate went to the window, obviously to
hide her face. She pulled back the curtain,

and peered out. It looked quite dark outside
here from this light room.

Mary put aside her work. " You've had
enough snow for one day' she said. "Take
off your cloak before the snow upon it thaws,
and then sit down and talk to me ! " she
rang the bell.

We are just as much ghosts now as
we can ever be." said Kate, striving to
speak lightly. " It seems to me that this
I ' is utterly distinct from the habitation
it is compelled to."

"Not quite distinct," said her sister,
warming to the subject. "It is as curious
to note the affinity between matter and
spirit aa it is to mark their dissimilarity.
It is a question which opens — Oh, Hannah,
please take Miss Kate's cloak, and bring
slippers ; her boots must be wet. — Kate,
you must be horribly tired. You had scarcely
a mouthful. Your stomach "

My stomach ! " cried Kate, impatiently,
unclasping the cloak.

"Well, I used the possessive pronoun,"
said Mary, deprecatingly ; "I did not imply
that you — the absolute and veritable
you — had any connection with the stomach
that holds a mean office in the habitation
you are pleased to despise. No, don't go
upstairs ; for once submit to be waited
upon. Slip off your boats "

Oh, miss ! it's all very well to say slip
'em off, but they're soaked through and
through, sticking like the skin."

Please, Hannah, don't make any allusion
to Miss Kate's ' skin.' — Is your dress
damp ? "

No ; that's all right. But the snow
was very deep when once off the beaten
track. — Thank you, Hannah."

Now, come and toast yourself. Ah,
Kate, I'm really glad you are beginning to
interest yourself in scientific subjects. There
is literally no end to the amount of interest
they contain. One need never be in want of
occupation, nor in want of a subject ; everything

can be turned to account. Life becomes
of double value when we can look at
everything with a perceptive mental eye, as
well as with the mechanical organ that
really has nothing to do with us, but takes
all the credit it doesn't deserve."

Here she paused. Kate was evidently
not following the thread of the discourse,
although she had thrown herself in an armchair,
and placed her feet obediently on the
fender. She was silent, and gazed with
her far-off look into the glowing coals.

Mary's object was achieved ; she had
given her sister time to collect herself.

"I met Mr. Seymour."

It was an abrupt disclosure, and she still
remained gazing earnestly at the fire.

Did you ? Was that all ? "

All," murmured Kate, as she exclaimed

mentally ; " and was that uot enough ? "

What she said was, "Don't you think it

strange ? "

I don't think it unlikely he should come
vol. ii. 37

to Netherbyby at any time, nor strange that,
being out, you should meet him."

"But Colonel Bathurst being away "

That did not occur to me for the
moment. He, then, did not know of the
colonel's absence ? "

I am not sure."

I hope you told him mamma and Dell
were away."

I am sure I did not."

We ought to prevent his coming here."

He will not come here," interrupted
Kate, decisively.

"As a matter of certainty, he will come
here. If you merely met him, you ought not
to have forgotten your principal duty."

Principal duty I I wonder if anything
ever did occur to you but duty ? "

Many things. Among the rest, that
Mr. Seymour has managed to agitate you in
an uncommon degree, and I am sorry to see
it.

Mary knew quite enough now to anchor

her floating impression, so she steered her
course accordingly.

You cannot be more sorry than I," said
Kate, with heat. "Do you think I can be
less concerned because he has power to
agitate me in an uncommon degree ] v

There was no heat in Mary's reply.
Certainly not, my dear'' She stooped
to arrange a disorderly coal. It gave her a
chance of a full view of Kate's face. " No ;
you are the person principally concerned.
It was on your part I spoke."

Well, regrets will do no Q-ood for me ! "

I don't see that we can ever be past
regret. It seems to me that if there's one
things likely to last in unadulterate strength
until one's dying clay, it is ' regret.' After
all, there is a certain amount of serenity — a
kind of resignation to events implied by the
word." She spoke in her usual reflective
wav now, and was silent for a while, finisher
eyes following the fascinating firelight.
But oh, Kate ! " she went on, hurriedly,

regret is nothing compared with remorse —
remorse must be agony ! ''

This vein moved Kate visibly.

"Mary," she said, stretching out her
hand and clenching the arm of her chair, " I
have been saved that ! ,!

Mary put her hand across the cold,
nervous ringers, her soft strong hand that
had so much meaning in it. " I could swear
to that," she said, in a low constrained
voice.

You mean that you could trust me ? v

Mary nodded. " I've seen it a long time.
I only wonder mamma did not. She is so
easily deceived."

Deceived ? " cried Kate.

Hush, my dear ! There could be no
deceit on your part. It is so unfortunate
that no one interfered to prevent it. It is
a thousand pities "

Oh ! nothing could have prevented it.
From the first moment I looked at him,
when he lay like dead, crushed among the

evergreens out here " she started to her

feet, and spoke with the pathetic force of
suppressed passion. " From the moment I
looked at him, he was something holy to me !
I have felt the influence of his slightest
word — I've been possessed by him to such a
decree that he has never been absent from
my thoughts, sleeping or waking. Since I
have known him my life has been one long
dream — nothing else has been real. I have
truro-led — God knows how I have fought

on o

with myself, and used my prosaic commonsense,
as well as my moral feeling, to aid the
horrible bar there is between us — and the

result is, that his image haunts me still — that
his voice thrills me like exquisite pathetic
music — that the memory of every word of his
lives for ever in my mind. He is dearer tome
in my renunciation of him than any
other woman's lover could be in the
possession."

The pathos of her beautiful voice was
enough at any time to melt a heart uf

stone. Mary's was not stone, but she commanded
herself very well, though her face
flushed in warm sympathy.

There ! — you know it all ! I didn't want
him to suffer. I knew instinctively, before
he went away, he would have spoken ; but
I was quite defenceless to-day."

You have done right, Kate," said Mary,
gently. " He will acknowledge it."

Oh, he will not ! I am distracted
when I think of him ! So noble and sofar
above other men, as he is, it seems
terrible that I, who of all others would save
him pain, must inflict it."

If things were " commenced Mary,

thoughtfully. " If it were possible, you
would not let considerations for yourself
hinder you "

4 'For myself! I have no self; I am all
his — his entirely. I can only save him by
being: cruel. Was there ever selfishness in
love ? ' !

There is a great deal more of that than

of anything else in what is often called
love," said Mary, cynically. " You, in your
perfect abandonment of feeling, deify the
thing you love. Yours is an unfortunate
temperament, as we are placed. Don't
think I cannot feel for you, although I
appear tame and cold. I am quite sensible
that you must suffer more from your very
nature than I could."

Kate had spoken with flashing eyes,
flushed cheeks, and impetuous thrilling
voice. She was a grand picture, standing
there scorning herself, her self-abandonment,
her sorrow, and placing him. Vivian, first in
her consideration.

Those tender words of Mary's cooled the
passionate girl. She burst into tears, and
sank down upon the hearth rug, burying her
face on Mary's knee.

Mary stroked her hair without a word,
and let the girl's broken sobs fill the pause.

I dare say, now, it's a very unusual thing
to give way to my feelings as I have done,"

she said, when she arose with swollen eyelids
and hair out of order. " I should have
thought it almost immodest if I had heard
of a woman saying — such things. Although,
Heaven knows, it cannot be worse to say
them than to feel them. And, notwithstanding
all my unutterably painful knowledge,
I cannot find anything in the thing
itself but that which is beautiful and
sacred."

And so it is, and must ever be. There
is no holier, no higher, no greater feeling
than love in the whole range of human
capacity. We must do without this, except
in the universal sense. It need not make
us despise other heights, other joys. Why,
even the poets themselves depreciate love
sometimes. In their efforts to show it great,
they fall on the other side, and lower the
power by its own force. Honour, it is
frequently said, stands superior to love —
directs it — guides it. Why, love is the very
soul, the essence, of honour itself. ' Love

does all that's noble here below.' Love is
the parent of ' honour ' and of all things
good."

Kate gazed at her sister in wonderment.

"Are you surprised that I should ever
have thought on anything but insects ? I
don't know why people should despise them ;
they have taught me a great deal."

CHAPTER XIX.

THE COLONEL IS FOUND OUT.

The crisis was past. Against all expectation,
almost against the fell decree of science
itself, Adelaide slowly recovered.

My dear sir," said Parke to Bathurst,
nothing less than a magnificent constitution
could have sustained the trial. I
never expected she would survive. I had
no hope ; I admit it."

The colonel still continued to send flowers
and books, or anything he could suggest,
for the comfort of the ladies ; but he did not
do that which he should have done — which
he knew he should have done — he did not
leave Grimslade. He told himself that he
had actually conceived a liking for the dingy

old. town. The nurse had told him that
great doubts had been expressed concerning
the luxuries they enjoyed. She had cleverly
managed to let it be understood tacitly that
the gifts were sent to her.

Mrs. Elmore looked incredulous at me
this morning, when she noted the name of
the principal florist here. But then, she

believes in me — what a wicked woman

If "
am ;

"Very — very' acquiesced Bathurst.
readily.

She went on to say that both ladies had
constantly expressed surprise at the great
attention Doctor Parke had shown them.

Yes ; at all this he felt satisfied. He
had been able to interpose at the right
moment, and his work had not been in vain.

One morning the sun shone quite brightly,
and made the principal street positively
gay ; people were naturally induced to go
out in such exceptional weather. Bathurst
stepped serenely out of a cigar shop on to

the pavement, and found himself face to face
with Mrs. Elmore. There was no time for
preparation. He had only just time to hold
his breath. Their eyes met, she gave a
visible start, and he began to twirl his
moustache vigorously.

Ah ! — Dear me ! Who would have
thought — • — -" The tone of surprise was
well assumed, but here the colonel paused ;
he could not utter another word with those
very serious eyes raised to his. " Oh, I
cant do it ! " he went on. " The mischiefs
out — you know it now." And the colour
mounted in his fine brown complexion,
while he spoke half earnestly, half playfully.

She smiled too. She could not help it ;
his confusion was too manifest.

Never mind," she said, as they shook
hands. " I am glad you cannot deceive me
to my face, though you have undoubtedly
done so behind my back. Oh, don't protest !
It's no use — I see through it all ! I have to
thank you for everything."

He shook his head deprecatingly.

It is quite useless to deny it ! You are
nurse's singularly generous friend. And I
was just arranging — credulous and foolish
as I am — to give her a really valuable
present, by which she might remember "

Oh ! she deserves it — she deserves it ! ' ;
he broke in warmly.

She shall have it. But you, colonel —
Oh ! you ought to be ashamed of yourself
to bribe one foolish woman to deceive
another. And there's no credit in it — anyone
can do that."

But the pleasant tone of raillery died out
of her voice as she said the last words.
"Any one can do that' she repeated,
sadly.

Come, come, my dear Mrs. Elmore, you
must not speak like that. I'm sure you
can't half guess the trouble I've had to
hide myself. You can never have been in
disgrace enough to hide from any one."

"Oh, colonel ! " she said, after a pause,

and in quite a solemn voice, "I ought to
feel only thankful — and I am thankful. But
but I am afraid."

He drew her hand gently within his arm
as he said, " Can't you believe in pure disinterested
friendship, Mrs. Elmore ? "

Again she paused. Then, looking round
at him, she said warmly, " Colonel Bathurst,
can you conscientiously look in my face and
tell me that disinterested friendship alone
brought you here ? ' :

Bathurst was going to make the attempt.

It was purely and simply disinterested
"

Go on," she said, ironically.

Love, then," he said, boldly finishing
the sentence.

Disinterested love ! There's no such
thing in a man."

He shook his head innocently ; he almost
appeared to agree with her.

I implore you, for your own sake, colonel,
to desist," she went on, in agitated tones.

"You must have known — I am sure you
must know — it is no foolish whim that
keeps me and my daughters in seclusion. I
cannot bear to talk upon the subject. And
and my respect and esteem for you are so
great that I cannot allow you to deceive
yourself."

You would not do so — and I have not
done so," he replied, gravely. " I knew
there was a bar before I came here. 1 amas
fully convinced of it now. My feeling
for your daughter may not be what you call
disinterested, but I am ready to do fifty
times more than I have done for her — or
hers — without a hope of reward."

Oh ! how sorry — how grieved I am —
this should have fallen on you ! Forgive
my doubt ? Love seldom comes up to your
standard. But, believe in you as I might,
it is only right you should not meet
Adelaide."

"Do not say so, Mrs. Elmore ! She d<
not know it — she never shall know it. I

am not a headstrong boy, and she — she is a
very exceptional woman. Is friendship to
be denied us because there must not be love ?
I can keep my secret. And, trained as she
has been, she will, of course, never think
of — of such thing."

Here a severe stab of the conscience
warned him that he was transgressing.

The — the moderate acquaintance there
could be allowed under our circumstances
would scarcely satisfy the demand, even of
friendship. It seems hard to tell you, after
all your goodness, that friendship would be
better left alone. Let me know, colonel,
for how much we are indebted to you.
Flowers and fruits and jellies we will
concede, but I cannot allow — anything more.
I noticed — that is, I really thought that
Doctor Parke's charges were inadequate to
his rank. Men of his kind are generally
satisfied with one or two visits. And I
never quite understood the manner in which
he appeared upon the scene. I can't allow

any interference on that point — I can't
submit to the obligation, even from you.
Colonel Bat hurst."

Now, I solemnly declare," he protested ;

but Fate decreed that he should get no
farther in that sentence, for just then an
old woman, decently but very poorly
dressed, stood before them.

She was a very small dark woman, with
bright intelligent eyes, and as they rested
on the fine martial figure of the colonel.
they kindled almost as a mother's might
when she looks on a noble son.

She made a rapid movement forward.
Mrs. Elmore, who was watching her with
some interest, in spite of her own state of
mind, saw that the movement was unpremeditated
— indeed, half unconscious.

Are you — are you Lieutenant Bathurst ! " ;
said the old woman, in a quick breathless way.

He stopped and looked down upon her

with his usual gentle cordiality. Mrs. El-more

moved a little aside.
vol. ii. 38

I am that man — but some years older
than the lieutenant was."

Then the dark bird-like eyes filled up
suddenly with tears.

"Then — then you've forgotten Kitty,
Master Harold."
"What!— Kitty?"

He took both thin, unloved hands in
his, while he looked steadily at her.

What ? Kitty, my little mother ! never
to be forgotten."

And then he stooped low — and he had
to stoop very low before he could reach
his old nurse's face, with his bearded lips.

Mrs. Elmore's eyes were as wet as
Kitty's ; she could understand it all. This
unexpected action of his, his utter disregard
of on-lookers, touched her deeply. Ah ! he
was a man to love ; he was a man to adore.

The next words she heard were, " I

must know how we lost sight of you, Kitty.

.My mother tried very hard to find you.

Why did you keep away ? Surely you

knew where to find some of the family ?
There always has been Netherbyby."

But the affectionate old woman was quite
unable to give coherent replies ; she was
overwhelmed.

I'm not going to let you escape now !
I want your address, and I'm coming to
see you ; so that's all about it. You never
could say ' no ' to me, you know."

Suddenly waking to a sense of the
dreadful impropriety of things, and the
quiet lady looking on, Kitty, with a hurried
apology, wiped her tearful, happy face, and,
having given the necessary address, went
on her way.

Well ! I'm very glad of that," said
Bathurst, as they walked on. " Poor old
soul ! She looks as though she wouldn't
be the worse for a friend."

But Mrs. Elmore was silent.

I have not seen her for nearly twenty
years, and I wonder that she knew me.
I knew her, though, directly I caught the

expression in her face. That bright little
woman is one of my first memories. She
cared for me as my mother could not at
that time."

Still his companion did not speak. He
noticed her silence now.

Mrs. Elmore, I feel as if I ought to
apologize to you, but really I forgot everything
but Kitty."

Colonel Bathurst," said Mrs. Elmore,
in quiet, well-regulated tones, "everything
that you do, and everything that you say,
can only redound to your honour."

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. C, C. d° O.

OF THE

U N Veracity

or Ill Noise

V 2>

University of Illinois Library

loco

L161— H41

BY

MRS. M. MOORE.

IN Thee VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

London:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

^Dublisl[)crs in (Ortiinarg to l^cr fHajcstg tic ©urrn.

1885.

(All rights reserved.)

Contents OF VOL. III.

I. A Tendency to be Honest . 1

II. The Colonel ix)es his Best to avoid

Discovery . . 14

III. The Colonel betrays himself . 34

IV. " You're not Half Good at Intrigue " 52
Y. The Colonel expresses his Views on

"Friendship" . . 65

YI. " The Plan I would adopt would be

AiiBUsn" . . . 82

Iii. O'BuNcous is prompted by Prudence 104

Viii. "I see you always" . . 119

IX. "I don't understand your Moves" 131

X. The Colonel fails IN Another Scheme 139

XI. Monetary . . . 151

XII. What /5 an Honourable Course? 159

XIII. Chaos . . . . 169

XI Y. The Major's Last Engagement 193

XY. The Colonel makes Another Mistake 210

Xii. General Courtney's Manoeuvre 232

XVII. How the Last Scheme failed . 261

Xviii. A Most Conventional Ending 284

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/autumnmanoeuvres03moor

CHAPTEE I.

A Tendency TO BE Honest.

It was an odd coincidence that, when the

train which contained Mrs. Elmore and her

daughter ran into the station near Netherbyby,

Colonel Bathurst should be leisurely pacing

the platform, as men are wont to do to

while away spare time. Mrs. Elmore saw

him as they passed ; so did Adelaide.

Mamma ! There was Colonel Bathurst!

Did you see him ? And there, too, is his

carriage, I declare ! "
VOL. III. 39

Mrs. Elmore became suddenly and
strangely confused.

*^ I — oh yes ! Well, it is not unlikely
that he should be here. Of course, he is
on his own business."

*' Why, I never thought for one moment
that he was here on ours. Mamma dear,
you look so self-absorbed that I don't think
you know what I did say."

Bathurst drew near, regarding the carriages
in that searching manner that is unmistakable.
Mrs. Elmore coloured.

"Even that would not be so very surprising.
He sent his carriage to take me
to the station when I left home."

And did you let him know you were
coming back ? "

The thought did enter her mind that
such intimacy was closer than she was
prepared to understand.

Bathurst's face lightened as he recognized
her. He came up smiling. " Ah ! delighted
to see you once more — more delighted to

be of some use. How do you do, Mrs.
Elmore ? Your daughter told me you were
expected by this train."

Bathurst had taken Adelaide's hand in
his, and in the pleasure of that moment,
remembering his pain and sorrow on her
account, remembering his apprehension for
her life, and seeing there before him that
beautiful calm face brightened with a glow
he loved to see upon it, he did in this
momentary excitement forget himself sofar
as to give that hand an emphatic
pressure.

Mrs. Elmore saw at once she had made
a mistake by her tacit admission ; his
ready excuse, too, had the advantage of
being in all probability true. But she need
not have feared ; Adelaide was not reconciling
her mother's discrepancies to reason''

I am so oiad to see you, colonel ! It
is like coming home ao-ain ! "

Now this observation, made with warmth,
was certainly the last Mrs. Elmore expected

her daughter to make. It amazed her, but
it did not disconcert Bathurst. His perceptions
were quickened by his passion.
He had not expected such an admission,
but it told him beyond a momentary doubt
that, whatever feeling she had disclosed
in the delirium of fever, she was still
thoroughly unaware of the nature of her
regard for himself. " So much the better,"
thought he ; for he was a gentleman to the
heart's core, and his last desire was that
she should feel the bitter sweetness of
such knowledge. And yet, contradictorily
enough, he felt a pang at her outspoken
friendly greeting.

Then there were only passing words until
they were comfortably settled in the carriage.

Well, and have you seen the dear girls
often ? They must have been lost without
mamma."

If they have been," said Bathurst, airily,
"they must have been found by some one,
for I saw them this morning."

But this, lie knew, ^Yas only the first
question he would have to evade.

"After— a "

Mrs. Elmore's speech was certainly more
hesitating than usual.

AAYell, mamma, after what ? "

Oh, of course. Colonel Bathurst knows
how seriously ill you have been ! Don't
you think she looks well, considering — all
things ? "

Indeed, it is more than any one can
expect, to see her looking so well," said
Bathurst, warmly, thinking at the same
time how her mother belied her sex by
awkward dissembling

this period he made an inadvertent
remark on the change in the aspect of the
country. He had left it autumnal and
still beautiful, and, in his preoccupation of
mind, he had not observed the vast change.

AVhat a deal of snow there has been ! "
he exclaimed ; and his voice betrayed his
surprise at the discovery.

Adelaide laughed. '^ It lias surely not
fallen since you left Netlierby this morning
? " she said.

Nothing could have been simpler than
that Bathurst should admit that he, too,
had been away until to-day, and that he
really had not observed the unusual depth
of the snow. But, because the invention
of an imaginary place and imaginary action
appeared too much for him, he lost an excellent
opportunity. Still he admitted he
was not a much more able diplomatist than
Mrs. Elmore.

That lady was in a state of trepidation.
The idea was terrible to her, that she might
be discovered by either of her children
practising consistent deception, even though
her reasons might be unquestionable. " He
will betray me," she thought, nervously ;
I see that he will." And she managed
to intercept his glance, and give him a
warning frown.

*' Mamma, why are you looking like a

thunder-cloud ? What has Colonel Ba-thirst
done that you should fro^Ti him
down ? "

Mrs. Elmore started. '' Indeed, Adelaide,
it is the last thing I intended to do. It
would be too base an ingratitude after all
his goodness."

Now, this was an exasperated remark.
Adelaide looked from one to the other, wondering
what it could mean ; and Bathurst
was actually blushing. What could it mean ?
There was some secret understanding; —
that was clear. Had not her mother half
admitted having written to inform him
of their coming ; And was he not there
evidently on duty ?

A wild, insane thought flashed through
Adelaide's brain. Was it — coidd it — oh
no 1

The suggestion was ridiculous. Her
mother — her prudent, long-suffering, devoted
mother !

There was a dead silence.

"Now, ril be hanged if I speak ! " thought
Bathurst, resolutely closing his lips ; for he
felt quite unequal to the position he had
placed himself in, and he dreaded Mrs.
Elmore's reproachful eyes.

I never felt more incapable of saying
anything natural in the whole course of my
life," thought Mrs. Elmore, as she, too, compressed
her lips. She was almost afraid she
would ask him how he liked Grimslade.

Well, although it was impossible that
she, or Kate, or Mary might marry, Adelaide
rationally concluded that no such
reason existed for her mother, and since
Colonel Bathurst had become so intimate
with them, it was, perhaps, deemed wiser
that he should take the position of her
mother's husband.

Her mother's husband ! Oh, the inconceivable
— the horrible idea ! She shuddered
and turned cold.

He was only forty, although he did look
to some eyes a little older, and her mother

was fifty-four. The difference was nothing,
after all ; and she could but admit that her
mother had still great feminine attractions.

She could not speak if she would ; a
strange stagnation stole over her senses.
She had seen much strangeness, much unexpected
phases of human nature in her
slight glimpse of the world ; but this condition
of things completely unnerved her.
At this critical moment the vicar's love-making,
either to herself or his wife,
appeared quite commonplace.

The silence did not embarrass Adelaide ;
she was too absorbed in her thought. In
truth, she had not yet discovered that there
was silence, while to Bathurst it was simply
unbearable. The drive was fortunately nota
long one, for that which had begun so
felicitously threatened to terminate in quite
another way. As the carriage passed the
road that led to Netherbyby, Bathurst, seeing
his opportunity, said hastily —

I think I must leave you here — that is,

I will intrude no longer. You must be tired
out, and — and, let me hope, also hungry,"
he added, with an attempt of hilarity.

But Adelaide, whose nature was opposed
to all deception, even self-deception, looked
at him almost sorrowfully, as she said
blankly, "No."

Now," thought he, in his vexation, ashe
strode on in the snow that had helped
to delude him — " what now have I done to
deserve this ? She suspects me, I'm sure
of it. And God knows of what ! If I were
a real miscreant, I couldn't feel worse.
Women are not all the arch hypocrites men
are so fond of making them out to be.
Adelaide — great, ingenuous woman — did not
attempt to hide her suspicion of me. A
pretty mess I've made of things at the
commencement ; O'Buncous himself couldn't
have done worse."

Left alone, the two women became instantly
relieved. Adelaide had not courage
to start the subject that was burning within

her. She could not help, however, remarking
that Bathurst had seemed strangely ill
at ease.

So was I," was Mrs. Elmore's quick
reply. " To tell the truth, I am never quite
at my ease in any intimate position with
gentlemen. I always feel as though we
ouo-ht to avoid them."

'' You don't always appear so," said Adelaide,
quietly, thinking meanwhile that this
did not ratify her conclusions. ''' That's as
far as ice are concerned," she went on.
You, yourself, doubtless feel as I do — somewhat
benefited by the change of masculine
society. Only, in your case, there is no
reason why you should not enjoy the change."

If Mrs. Elmore's intelligence had not been
a little confused, she would have found some
meaning in the words that now altogether
escaped her. She only sighed and said,
I'm sure I don't know, my dear."

And Adelaide was sure her mother was
unhappy.

Among the home greetings the slight
awkwardness wore away, but AdeLaide
found herself regarding her mother in
quite a new light. She was a very fine
woman, handsome still, and, with her
refined manners and beautiful voice, a
woman any man might be proud of.
Why, Mrs. Wallis is not to be compared
to her ; and I dare say she is quite my
mother's age, if one knew the truth." But
though she strove to regard the matter
in the light of reason, she could find no
such illuminating power ; the thought itself
was chaos. She found her pulse throbbing
faster when it assailed her. One blessing
there was — before this strange relationship
could take place she would be out in the
world again, away from it all.

I find a subtle difference in Adelaide,"
whispered Kate to Mary that night. " She
thinks of other things while she is talking

o o

to US."

I find a subtle difference in Kate,"

whispered Mary, in the same tone. " She
sometimes is guilty of such abstraction."
And Kate coloured consciously.

*****
*' Now, I shall have to invent a whole
tissue of falsehoods before I go again to
the Glade. And when I've invented them,
there's a great question if I can remember
what I've got to say, and there's every
probability that Mrs. Elmore sill contradict
me flatly. Yet, what could I do when
that dear woman looked at me so distractedly
and bade me promise secrecy ?
Of course, her sole reason is the fear lest
Adelaide might return my affection. Perhaps
she knows it. A\^hat then ? Then she
will play another game. It's only Adelaide
she considers, as far as I am concerned —
and the other men are out of the field.
It is hard when a man isn't allowed to be
honest, especially when his tendencies run
that way."

CHAPTER 11.

THE COLONEL DOES HIS BEST TO AVOID
DISCOVERY.

Among his letters, Bathurst found one from
his nephew — a mere note.

*let me know when you are
likely to be at Netherbyby. I must see you.
I ran down a week or two ago, and Acis
surprised to find you absent, especially
for ' an indefinite period.' Make your peace
with my mother, if you can. She won't
write, but you will, if only to your trough
some nephew,

"ViN.-"

'' Hem ! come he will, though he would
be better a thousand miles away."

Later he heard from sirs. Grove that
Yivian had arrived at midday, had taken
luncheon, and had gone out ; that he had
returned about dusk, and had left by the
evening train.

Now, where did he go ? " reflected
Bathurst." " Why, of course, he called at
the Glade. It's strange the girls didn't
mention it this morning;. It mio-ht have
escaped Alary's memory ; but Kate wouldn't
forget it."

He felt very courageous as he entered
the Glade gardens next day, for he was
prepared to meet any difficulty that should
present itself. Why, business in to^Ti was
an excuse a man never need fail in. Business
in town ! Why could he not always
make it as he went alone

A sudden thaw had set in and had made
the ground slushy, and in places almost
impassable for a man in ordinary attire.
A thick dismal sleet had driven in his face
the whole way, so he was anything buta

presentable object, even when he had
removed his frieze ulster. Even then his
courage had not ebbed ; and although
vanity was far from being one of his
weaknesses, the first thing he did was to
apologize for his condition.

But it's a matter of choice after all,"
said Kate, who was over-excited, and with
whose natural light humour there was
an unusual dash. "I think you must
have a predilection for days like this.
The only time we saw you, while mamma
was away, you were in just such a

state."

Adelaide heard that emphasized word
with amazement.

"You are not to be congratulated on
your taste," Kate went on.

Nor are you. Miss Kate, in railing at
a man who is defenceless. I just came
over to iu quire how you stood the journey,
Mrs. Elmore."

Why should she stand the journey 1 "

asked Kate, demurely. " Surely she could

have sat."

Adelaide was deaf to her sister's absurdities.
He had pointedly asked the polite
question of her mother, when by all laws
of reason and propriety he should have
inquired after herself. Was not this
circumstance suspicious of itself? Everyone
but Adelaide had smiled, more at
Kate's tone than at her words.

Why, Dell, you're in the moon. Do
tell me what you find up there."

"Nothing half so ridiculous as yourself,
in the moon or out of it."

To get upon ground that was not
dangerous, Mrs. Elmore politely reeked
to the colonel for herself and Adelaide.
Then she quickly changed the subject, and
asked with much kindness after Mr. Sey-mour.
She was elusive in this matter.
Could he walk without any difficulty now !
She hoped his health had not suffered. It was

so hard to be deprived of exercise ; and so on.
vol. III. 40

Now, surely," thought Bathurst, " they
will come out with it."

In every sense well, I believe," he
answered. " I heard from him this
morning. He tells me he was here a little
while ago."

Then he looked directly at Mary ; but
she met his eye quite calmly, and said,
"Indeed?" impressively.

"Ah !" thought he, " she's cleverer than
her mother, in spite of her quietness."

It's very odd," thought Adelaide, " that
Vivian should have to inform his uncle that
he paid him a visit. '^

All was confusion and mystery.

Mrs. Elmore did not overlook the discrepancy
; she thought the colonel very
dense not to have observed it. So she commenced
explanatorily, " Of course, yes ; he
was unaware of your absence from Netherbyby."

Struck by the clumsy expedient to which
her mother had resorted, Adelaide said
scientifically, but with studied coolness,

One can hardly be amazed at that,
mamma, considering that Colonel Bathurst
himself scarcely seems aware of his own
absence, and considering that you are only
guessing at it."

Mrs. Elmore sat down feebly.

The colonel's hair went up ; he put his
hand to it unconsciously. " She would bea
fine sort of character to deceive ! " The
task he had set himself did not appear to be
so easy after all. He laughed to gain a
moment's time, and then he said, avoiding
Adelaide's glance, ^' Indeed, you're very
nearly right. I do seem to forget having
been in dismal London when I come
back to Netherbyby. Business to me is
always dry, tedious, and depressing. Weare
all equally fond of Netherbyby. My
nephew threatens to invade me soon."

He observed Kate closely as he said this,
and he saw that she evaded his notice completely
and palpably, and then he knew that
she read his suspicion.

'well, if there are to be secrets all
round," thought he, " and if we are all
going to play a genteel comedy, I don't
know where the deuce I shall be soon."

Poor Mrs. Elmore ! she could not bear to
see that uncomfortable, perplexed look in
her hero's frank eyes ; at the same time,
though perfectly willing, she found herself
equally unable to assist him.

It had been arranged between Mary and
Kate that the wisest possible course would
be to keep the matter of Vivian's visit secret
from their mother. " It must be our aim
to make her mind easy," they had said,
'rand we can do no good by speaking."
Alas ! no. Speaking seemed to be of very
little avail as things stood

I am sure," said Mary, very softly, and
with the most tender air — " I am sure it
will be an invasion you would not resist.
Mr. Seymour is a great favourite of mine.
I should be inclined to fight ybr him instead
of against him, if you did. "

Oh, this girl was deep, with her cold eyes
and her soft ways.

Then I shan't ask you to be an Amazon
for this occasion only, and put the enemy
to rout."

I don't think that I should be able todo
it."

"Do you know some one who would ? "
he asked, significantly.

I thought it was my exclusive privilege
to talk nonsense," said Kate, sharply. " If
you come to invasion, I won't have my
territory ina d e d. "

Bathurst looked at her with admiration.
Her attitude was one of playful defiance,
but her eyes told a tale that was more like
truth than jest. 'she is angry," thought
he. "And, poor little girl, she's more concerned
than I thought."

'' You look like battle," he said. " I tell
you I'm good at firearms — but I can't
stand your artillery."

Kate refrained her brood-humour in a

moment. " Why, if that were so," she said,
"we women would only have to take up arms
to have everything our own way. I was
under the impression, however, that you
did not approve of women holding military
or naval appointments, though outside that
you make no restrictions. What is his
creed, Adelaide ? you know most about
it.

Adelaide, however, did not take up the
challenge, though she looked straight at the
colonel, and, for the first time during the
interview, their eyes met.
" Well, I'll tell you, Miss Kate," he said,
boldly, " since no one will speak to my
credit. I believe in the capacity of woman
for anything, except for mere physical force.
That is why I exempt her from the hardships
of warfare."

You may rely upon it," said Kate,
laughingly, "they only want wdiat Dell
calls 'training' to match you even there."

Never quote Dell again," said Adelaide.

'she has altered her opinions considerably,
even after a limited experience."

Don't say that, Miss Elmore ! " said
Bathurst. " You will recover your opinions
with your strength. We all see things ina
different light when we are "

Oh, don't quote those everlasting lines
about his Satanic Majesty's sickness ! I
suppose it was the only one he ever had —
and I wish it had carried him off'*

Kate ! " remonstrated Mrs. Elmore.

There can't be any harm in it, mamma !
I'm not on good terms with him myself,
whatever you may be ? "

Kate ! Kate ! "

Well, I beg your pardon, I'm sure, for
having spoken a word in depreciation of
royalty."

"How often have I said I do not like
such jests ! "

Well, one canst please everybody ; and
Colonel Bathurst does, you see. He's
laughing."

"But that does not show his approval.
I've no doubt he would be ashamed of you,
if you were his daughter."

Now, this was the most unfortunate speech
she could have possibly made. It seemed
to throw a terrible reality upon Adelaide's
apprehensions. The picture was too strong
Colonel Bathurst's daughters ! She rose.
I think I will go to my room," she said.
"I had very little sleep last night, and my
head is bad."

She gave Bathurst her hand as she spoke,
but she did not look at him. Her face,
though well marked by a composure she
was far from feeling, did appear to be
troubled.

I'm very sorry to hear that," he said, ina
grave, tender way. *^ I don't suppose it
possible I could realize how very ill you
have been."

The heartfelt tone, the strong touch,
almost brought the tears to her eyes.
Could she ever regard this man as her

father ? She went only to an adjacent room,
and wandered about it aimlessly, feeling
every moment more bitter in her anguish.

Almost immediately she heard the lock of
the morning-room turn. Yes, surely, he
was going. Her mother was accompanying
him to the door, where they stayed full nominates
— which seemed like fifty to Adelaide
— conversing in such an unquestionable
undertone that the most unsuspicious mind
could but remark it.

''My dear Mrs. Elmore," said Bathurst,
I entreat you to believe that I am doing
my best to avoid — to avoid notice — discovery."


"I quite believe you, colonel," said Mrs.
Ehnore, rather severely. " But the best
way to avoid notice generally is to keep
away."

Not — not altogether," he said, vaguely.
''I T\ish you would help me a little. Tm
sure I never knew conversation turn so
awkwardly before."

'rit was bad," said she, not knowing how
bad it had been. *' Where had I better say
you have been ? "

"Why, to London. I mentioned it —
didn't I ? "

Oh no ! you never even said you had
been away. / suggested that, you may
remember."

Yes ! and nicely Adelaide took us both
off our legs when you did," he said, a little
bitterly.

She saw it pained him to be doubted by
her daughter ; and she noted, too, the natural
and unconscious use of Adelaide's name.

Oh, it is a dreadful tiling ! " she said,
sadly.

Don't, Mrs. Elmore ! It will all— shakedown
after a bit. You say ' London,' and
leave the rest to me."

She, poor woman ! only shook her head.

Well, good-bye ! " he said, pleasantly.
I trust we shall be all much — much happier
when we next meet."

"What an ingenuous, tender-hearted man
he is ! " reflected Mrs. Elmore ; and she went
immediately to seek Adelaide.

What, here ! in this cold room ? Dell,
you ought to have gone to your own. How
is your head ? I am so afraid of any relapse.
Doctor Parke warned me to be careful, in
your case especially."

Never mind that, mamma ; my head is
better now. However, I will go to my room.
Please come with me''

*' Certainly, my dear ; " and the two went
up the stairs together.

I can't exist in doubt," thought Adelaide ;
and then she closed the door.

One's mental condition suffers, I suppose,
from serious illness. I feel restless and unsettled.
I shall have to go away again, as
soon as I have sufficient strength "

Don't talk of that, child ! "

I must. My taste of the world has only
goaded me to curiosity. I feel an interest
now in men and women I never felt before.

I begin to think it possible that I don't
estimate human nature at all correctly."

Don't trouble yourself about human
nature now : it's a confusion study."

Never mind that, so long as it is not
disappointing," said Adelaide, bitterly.

'' I never found it disappointing, my
dear," said Mrs. Elmore, tenderly. " But
then it is true, I always lived among the
upper classes, and I never knew much
about the lower orders."

Things are different with me ; I should
never see things in your light." Then
Adelaide laughed, somewhat unnaturally.
It was beyond my guessing that any such
people existed as Mr. and Mrs. Wallis, Mr.
Hazel, or Mrs. Furnival, and with these
people I was brought into such close connection
that I was bound to see their
foibles, even dien I could not discover
their merits. In my childishness I had
regarded marriage as an almost sacred
institution, and was much deceived. A

true marriage should alter one's being —
you become one with another ; you can
never be yourself alone after that. Withall
the pretended regard of that man and
his wife for each other, I know that if
either were to die, the other would marry
again immediately."

That's very probable," said Mrs. Elmore.

And do you think it right, mamma ? "

Oh, my dear ! in such matters it is
hard to say what is right ! The people
themselves must be the best judges of
that."

'* Can it ever be rig;lit ? " asked Adelaide,
earnestly. " Can a second marriage ever
proceed from an honourable cause ? Consider,
if the first marriage be made in
heaven, where can the next be made ?
Can a woman, who has once loved, look
into another man's eves and swear, as she
must swear, what she will be to him ?
Either her first marriage must be false or
bad, or her second, so it seems to me."

''My dear, dont trouble yourself about
such things ; they, fortunately, need not
trouble you."

*' No, because they do not concern me
personally. But they may concern you''

With all her sickening apprehensions
pressing upon her, and with all her moral
strength, she found it impossible to be
more explicit.

Mrs. Elmore gad upon her daughter
with bewilderment.

My dear," she said, " what can you
mean ? My mind has been made up for
many years upon all such things."

It was rarely that Adelaide showed the
least excitement, and that she was really
excited now, her mother could not fail to
perceive.

"You have thoroughly made up your
mind — and yet you will not tell me whether
you do approve of second marriage or
not ! "

Mrs. Elmore threw herself back in her

chair hopelessly ; she could not understand
this position, and she hesitated before
replying.

Adelaide had complained of her head ; a
mere allusion of this kind always filled the
mother with horror. The poor girl had
been desperately ill, and no doubt the excitement
of travelling and the return home
had been too much for her in her weak
state. The pained, wearied look that Adelaide
could not bear to see upon her mother's
face stole over it now.

Poor girl ! I must humour her," she
thought. " I must be careful."

Adelaide watched her with intense anxiety,
but she said no more.

'* Well, since you really wish to know —
I should have hardly thought it necessary
to give my opinion to those who know
7?ie," she said, hesitatingly, her sensitive
nature shrinking; from the task. " So
peculiarly out of the common are my views,
that they would be regarded as rigid by

men and women of the world. As far as
my personal feeling is concerned, I hold
second marriage as an unholy thing ! My
child, your dead father was my first love —
my only love. I cannot imagine a woman
loving; her husband and ever dreaming "

Mrs. Elmore was interrupted here. Her
daughter had been moving about the room
restlessly. Now she stopped behind her
mother's chair, leaned over her, and, placing
a hand upon her lips, cried out, with a kind
of ecstatic sob —

No more ! no more ! You always were

an angel, nothing less. I — I " then she

began to sob outright. " 1 — I hardly know
what possesses me, mamma ; but you have
made me so — so happy ! " And here she
laid her head upon her mother s shoulder,
and gave such a vigorous embrace that
showed there was more strength now than
Mrs. Elmore would have believed.

Calm yourself, dear ! Although — there
it may do you good to cry, it is not unusual

in sensitive natures on recovery from
illness."

Although she spoke soothingly, her mind
was anvthinor but easy. That this was an
unnatural state of things she could not
doubt, and altogether, in spite of its unreasonableness,
there was a vein of meaning:
in it at which she felt she had not arrived.

*' Tell me," she said, quietly, after a
pause — "tell me what you were thinking
of — what made that question so important."

There was no reply.

"swell, never mind. If I could make
you any happier, darling, by expressing all
my views, you should have them. I would
withhold nothing."

But Adelaide was not ready for the
humour of this speech. She only said
humbly, " You can make me no happier,
mamma."

vor . III. 41

CHAPTER III.

THE COLONEL BETRAYS HIMSELF.

Perhaps never within the limits of his
memory had Bathurst found himself in so
desponding a frame of mind. He was so
genuine, so thoroughly true to himself, that
he acknowledged at once the strength of
his feeling in all its intensity. " God
knows, she may be right after all ! " Mrs.
Elmore's words would recur to him — was
it fair to himself or Adelaide that he
should meet her and fan the smouldering
fire within him to flame ? or was it kind to

her

Here he stopped in his musing, and
another recollection changed the whole
course of his thought. '' Kind to her I

Kindness or unkindness will scarcely affect
her. I flinched from the look of her proud
eyes to-day. She never threw me a word.
Whatever the slight misunderstanding; existing
in her mind, she need not treat me like
that."

He was beginning already to exercise a

o o

certain rig-ht over the woman who had no
knowledge that she loved him. In his
anguish of mind he forgot many things.
He forgot that for several weeks his mind
had been absorbed by her, that she knew
nothing of this, and that even his name
had not been uttered to her.

Suppose that, after all, in her wandering
mind there had been only imagination,
and not fact ? " There had not been,
through the course of her life, any outlet
for natural feeling ; and perhaps the mere
force of nature itself drew those words from
her. Why did he turn cold as the suggestion
crept over him ? Would it not be
better — a thousand times better — if she did

not care for him ? Reason insisted on an
affirmative, but from his heart he could
not give one.

He was not learned in the ways of love,
he was not discriminating in women's ways,
or he would have discovered from this
strange behaviour of hers a very proof of
her regard. To go there — to meet her with
cold looks and cold words to greet him,
would be unendurable. Well, he would
stay away !

Major O'Buncous, sir ! "

Lucky by St. Patrick ! " exclaimed that
gentleman, as he entered the room, hilariously.
" They tell me you only came
home yesterday. 'Twas just a chance I
didn't come last week. However, all's well
that ends well ! What devilish bad weather
you've been having ! Does anybody ever
go about this place in the winter ? Devil
a horse — barring a cab — to be seen, so I
had to walk, you see. And a precious nice
mess I'm in ! How long do you think

those lazy porters '11 take to bring over my
luo'D'aae ? "

CO o

Luororaore I " exclaimed Bathurst, incoherently.


Why, of course a man must dress. Ah !
Bathurst, you never should have lent me
that twenty pounds. It lays a fellow under
an obligation, you see — couldn't rest until
I'd got it off my mind. Damned awkward
thing to be blessed with an ultra-conscientious
spirit ■ Well, there — it's off my
mind now I've told you my object in

comines."

O'Buncous had warmly shaken' Bathurst 's
hand, but during all this time no word had
escaped the colonel's lips but that one —
*' luggage." He spoke now.

You might have sent it on ; you
needn't have taken all the trouble "

No trouble, I assure you, my dear
fellow — none whatever ! I see you're still
down in the mouth — were when I left you,
remember. Financial difficulties, eh ? "

Oh, thank you ! " remarked Bathurst,
rather impatiently. *' Very much obliged
to you, I'm sure. But " — straightening
himself — " there's nothing wrong with me,
I assure you."

Still, as he spoke, he was cruelly reminded
that there was.

How are the adorable creatures at the
Glade ? Adorable I call 'em all ; one for
one thing — one for another. A shame to
our sex, I say, that such women should be
single 1 Somebody ought to wind up that
limited company."

Those ladies deserve respect, O'Buncous;
let them have it."

What do you call respect, if I'm not
paying it ? I admire 'em. No man living
can do more. We've all got our different
ways of doing things, and I've always
found yours, Bathurst, precious sly ones."

Sly," repeated the colonel, testily. The
word went home offensively.

Well, you know, you used to go hanging

about there, jawing away in an undertone
"

I tell you what it is, O'Buncous — wee
must have an understanding. I cannot,
and I will not, allow any man to pry into
my actions and criticise them before my
face."

O'Buncous resorted to his favourite
attitude of throwing back his arms and
extending his enormous chest as a shield
to the enemy.

'' Pry ! " he exclaimed.

sewell, /9rz//"

Bathurst was fast losing temper.

Dash it all ! you say * sly ' ; I say * pry.'
Where's the odds ? "

I beg your pardon," said Bathurst, stiffly*'
it was you who said ' sly ; ' / said ' pry.' "

Well, we won't Quarrel over a word —
have it your o^tl way. Let arguments, I
always say, cease when you're hungry — and
I've had nothing inside my lips these two
home"

Ah, you want something heavy, then,"
said Bathurst, ironically.

At this moment the door opened, and,
without any announcement, Vivian Seymour
entered.

His manner was just as supremely cool
and self-contained as it always was. He
had not walked through mud and thawing
snow ; he had simply waited at the station,
and ordered one of the men whom he knew
to get a conveyance. He was not afraid of
soiling his boots, nor of splashing his
trousers, but he had an instinctive aversion
to O'Buncous. He had travelled from London
by the same train, and had seen that
gentleman alight at the platform, and had
seen him well out of the station too, before
he emerged from the carriage. He knew he
must overtake O'Buncous on the road, for it
was hopeless to suppose he was going anywhere
but to Netherbyby, so Vivian took the
best course to avoid him.

There was a mutual understanding in the

eyes of uncle and nephew when they met,
but merely a word was spoken.

"How do, major ? '^ Yiyian said indifferently,
with just an inclination of the head.
I see I have to congratulate you — or rather
my uncle — or rather both — on your ha^dng
taken up your residence here."

This cold-blooded boy was certainly the
only enemy O'Buncous had. He, however,
laughed loudly.

Ha ! ha ! ha ! a capital joke ! Didn't
think you had so much humour, my young
friend."

Bathurst did not see the joke.

The beggar's cleverer than I gave him
credit for," thought Vivian.

He had been preparing this speech, and
had delivered it to perfection. He did not
expect the result.

'you'll be ready for dinner, Yin, I suppose
? " said Bathurst, pleasantly. The sight
of the handsome young man had put him
quite in tune. " Go and dress, my boy !

And, O'Bimcous, if your things haven't
come, could you manage to slip into any
of mine ? "

At a pinch," said the major, cheerily ;
'' but" — with a shade of earnestness on his
face — 'they'd be tight. Do you think
they'd affect my appetite ? "

When dinner was over, Vivian took occasion
for an aside. *' This is a pleasant
surprise," said he, in a tone at once satirical
and disconsolate.

'rit is indeed," said Bathurst, almost
mournfully, as he pushed open the window
and stepped out on the balcony.

Then you didn't invite him ? "

"My darwin!" expostulated Bathurst,
you don't know the difficulty I had to get
rid of him — had to lend him money for the
purpose."

Has he condescended to give you a
reason for his visit ? "

"A ridiculous excuse — to repay the
money."

Has he done it ? "

Well— no."

Then he will only mention it, you'll
see.

I don't care if I never hear it mentioned
again, if I could only get rid of him."

You can manage that. Lend him some

o

more money."

"Now, you're too hard, Yin. I believe
the old fellow means to pay. Still, if I
had only known that day I met him in
Piccadilly how the picking up of an old

friend mig-ht terminate However —

are you going to join us, O'Bancous ? "

Me ! No. I've had freezing enough
for one day. But you needn't speak so
low. I'm as secret as the ibis."

What does he mean, I wonder ? Xo,
Yin ; as I was saying, his coming just at
this period is most annoying. I was never
so unable to endure constant irritation.
However, what's past must be passed. And
that incident brought Eeilly to my knowledge.

It's useless to discuss cause and
effect," he added, thoughtfully.

I can't quite agree with you about the
past. It seems rather as if the past never
can be passed. Young as I am, I know
that the past will colour my life — or take
the colour out. Either way, it won't leave
me as it found me."

I meant precisely what you mean," said
his uncle, in all humility. '^ We have to
endure it. It's spilt milk ; one may never
make butter of it, save in the form of experience.
Resignation is always a hard
lesson to youth ; but there are some things
one has to put up with "

Like O'Buncous ? There he goes to
arrange his wardrobe. Well, I've no talent
for resignation. Have you guessed what
I want to say ? "

I'd rather not guess," said Bathurst,
gloomily.

Obstacles are only incentives. Let us
speak plain English. You know what was

the matter before I left. Well, after I trot
home, things went actually worse with me.
Absence, that was to work miracles of forgetfulness,
reduced me to think of nothing:
else "

'' It wasn't honos enough, Yin. Absence
for a few years would do it."

And do for me too ? Without humour
of any sort, uncle, there has been no frivolity
in me ever, you know — Without any
humbug, I'm fixed here."

Here he paused, while Bathurst seemed
to regain his spirits.

Hang it all, Yin, you are another
O'Buncous ! However, you are welcome.
Take aU Xetherby ; it will be yours, doubtless,
one day."

*' I hope not ; and — forgive me, uncle, if
I'm too interested to jest."

The colonel became gloomy again. He
sighed. " Ah, you're young. It comes hard
on you. What did you do down here ? "

Do ? AAYell, I hardly know what brought

me ; it was something like magnetism, I
think. I told my mother something "

'what diddle say?"

"Asked if you admired her. And after
that, inadequate as the reason may seem,
she was satisfied. It's a compliment to you
for any woman to believe in you as she
does. What did I do ? Disappointed at
not finding you here, I went out aimlessly,
restlessly, hardly recognizing there was a
future before me. When we are hard up
for a determining line. Fate is, I believe,
always waiting to make a pounce. I met
Kate accidentally. She was in the church
rigging up evergreens, and — and I — helped
her."

How did you get to the church ? "

I went in for shelter. No, that isn't
true, though the snow was coming on thick
as a mist just then. I thought I recognized
her figure."

Such a carriage — such a walk is rarely
to be seen. It's a family gift. Well ? "

I had planned nothing. I just spoke
out "

"You were wrong, Yin — unquestionably
wrong ! " exclaimed Bathurst, " and I'm very
sorry. I'd no idea you would go so far."

I think — I know I was right," said
Yivian, sith resolute courage.

For a moment there was silence. Bathurst
felt pained, almost grieved, by the
disclosure, and the warm words his nephew
had just uttered. " I know I was right "
could only mean one thing — that she had
confessed her love for him. In this case,
young and uncontrolled as they were, in
spite of all meaning to do right, what was
to be expected ? In imagination he had an
elopement before his eyes one moment, the
next — oh, horror ! that such things should
enter man's brain.

You were wrong," he said, sternly —
wrong in the face of facts I could show
you. My sympathy goes with you entirely,
but you were wrong."

I know what you mean. But I cannot
take for granted all they say — I mean all
they think. They are misguided, I have no
doubt, by some, shall we say, overstrained
whim of conscience, that has become almost
a religion to the girls after years of training.
Who was it who said, ^ If an idiot were to
tell you the same tale for six months, you
would end by believing it ' ? "

Anyhow, you must respect a man's
beliefs."

"Hardly, when the happiness of many
people is concerned. The last thing I
dreamt of was your displeasure at such a
course. I should not have been surprised
had you done such a thing."

Indeed ? You give me very little
credit for self-command, then."

How is it, then, uncle — have you been
away to avoid the temptations of the
Glade ? "

This was an embarrassing question in
itself ; but what made it more embarrassing

was that Bathurst was sensible of a rising
colour that defied control altogether. How
could he look up and say coolly that he had
absolutely followed Adelaide ?

Hem ! The fact is, a little explanation
becomes necessary here. You are not, perhaps,
aware that Miss Elmore has been
dangerously ill, and that her mother was
summoned by the clergyman to attend her."
No, indeed. Kate did not tell me."
"No doubt her sister was then out of
danger. Thank God ! " he continued
earnestly, " she was saved on the very
brink of the grave, and never knew — indeed,
the doctor himself admitted the rarity

he told me "

Good heavens, uncle ! were you there ? "
Although Bathurst had fully intended to
make the disclosure in his own way, he
felt annoyed at his inadvertence.

Hush, Yin ! Be careful ; it's a dead
secret. I followed her mother, knotting

how unused she is to the world, and crave
VOL. III. 42

them what aid I could without risk of discovery.
They returned only yesterday.
She is far from well — barely able to travel
but home was highly desirable ; for she
was not lodged at the vicarage, where she
should have been."

What a generous fellow you are ! I
don't wonder at my mother — how can you
bear to know that Adelaide thinks you
never thought of her ? "

That is what I want her to think," was
the colonel's quiet response.

What do you make out to be the reason
for their withdrawal from the world ? "

There is a strong reason, I am convinced
of that."

I am convinced that they are strong in
their reason, but not that the reason is
strong in itself. That's my point."

What's your idea "? "

I must speak to Mrs. Elmore."

Don't do it ! The poor woman has had
a heap of trouble. Give her time to recover.

I'll swear, now, Kate never encouraged
you.

It was a tentative remark this.

Encouragement is a vao^ue term. What
would discourage one man would encourage
another. Perhaps we stand as just such
types. You elect submission ; I mean
fighting."

I have the advantage of you," commenced
the colonel ; and then he paused.

Would it be ^T.se to disclose what he
knew now ? At any rate, he would think
that matter out. It might be better to
keep such terrible knowledge as he had in
hand. No harm could happen ; he would
keep too strict a watch. For Vivian's sake
as well as Kate's, no harm should befall
them.

We'll wait and see," said Vivian, unsuspectingly.


'* It's a happy thought — we will wait and
see. Do nothing yet — you must promise
me."

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

CHAPTEE IV.

You're not half good at INTRIGUE."

Forgive me for making an unexpected
raid upon you, but my nephew, Mrs. Elmore,
could not — ] am sure you would say should
not — be deterred from paying you the respect
he owes. And Major O'Buncous," he
went on in lower tones, " who turned upmost
inopportunely, could not be prevented
from following our footsteps upon any plea."

Mrs. Elmore smiled. " Do not apologize,
pray ! Major O'Buncous is quite indifferent ;
he does not trouble me. And — I should be
really sorry if Mr. Seymour omitted to call
while visiting Netherbyby."

The colonel noticed that there was in hera

certain indefinite change since yesterday.
She looked excited and almost happy.

I, too, have a visitor," she said. " Aunt
Flora has, as you pithily express it, ' turned
up most inopportunely.' Let me explain
that she is only an aunt by courtesy, and I
never found her a congenial friend. The
girls will laugh at her, and I really can't
wonder at it."

At this moment orreat laughter was heard
from the group by the window. Kate's
voice was not heard. On the alert for
what was going on in that quarter, Bathurst
glanced round for her. She was standing
at a side-table, bending down over a workbox,
and Vivian was on the opposite side,
also bending over the workbox.

They won't find what they want there,"
thought Bathurst, *' though they may as
well look for all that." But a heavy sigh
escaped him.

Don't look so dismal, colonel," said Mrs.
Elmore, half plaintively, half earnestly. " I

think I see a way out of all our difficulties,
and I feel happier in consequence. Adelaide
is much better ; she has recovered from the
effects of the journey''

Just then Adelaide left the group and
joined them. No other eye could have read
a difference between her greeting of to-day
and yesterday, but he read it instantly, and
knew he was forgiven, although he did not
know his fault. His spirits rose instantly,
even before she had spoken.

Good morning, colonel ! What are you
and mamma conniving at ? Some wickedness
; for you both look so serious."

'' Gravity is befitting our years."

Oh yes," she said ; " and mirth is
natural to youth — as we see exemplified."

Then they all looked towards the window,
where the laughter between O'Buncous and
Aunt Flora was continuous and loud.

Do they know each other ? " asked Mrs.
Elmore, in surprise.

Adelaide's eyes sparkled with amusement.

'they came clown by the same train yesterday,
and made friends on the road.
Colonel, you will be required to keep them
in order."

In spite of their youth, I consider them
able to take care of themselves," he replied,
smiling happily.

'' He has told her she doesn't look thirty."

Here Mrs. Elmore abruptly left.

I'm so glad you're better."

Well, you can't think how glad I am ! "

'' Do you know, I was absurd enough to
believe that — that I had offended you."

You couldn't do that," she said. " You
might grieve me."

How innocently she said it ! How frank
those fine dark eyes looked that met his so
seriously ! Did she know what she admitted
?

I can't help being amused by those
two," she said, after a moment ; " they are
such a novel experience."

His eyes strayed again to the workbox.

Vivian and Kate were still searching there



in ; fortune had granted them a timely
opportunity. The colonel calmed his conscience,
and did not interfere. " It's very
little comfort they will get," thought he.

*' You need not trouble yourself to introduce
us," said Aunt Flora, with the
archness of a girl of eighteen, as Mrs.
Elmore came up gravely.

This was a thin meagre woman, probably
of fifty, although from the affectation of
juvenility in the style of dress and hairdressing
she might have been eighteen.
She wore powder unblushingly, and kept
up a perpetual smile.

You, now, my dear, would take it
to be an improper thing to make an
acquaintance with a gentleman in a railway
carriage. But the world has changed a
good deal since you left it. Our sex is
allowed a great deal more freedom."

'* And ours a great deal less, Mrs,
Elmore," said O'Buncous. " I expect soon

to see men led about, like pet dogs, by
strings."

Aunt Flora laughed much at this sally.
It's time we had something our own way,
I think."

Mrs. Elmore passed on. She, too, leant
over the workbox until her shadow fell
between the young couple there.

Both started.

Why, have I startled you ? " she said.

You ? "

Kate's face raised to hers was startled
and agitated in its expression, and the lips
were tremulous. But her mother's eyes had
moved on to Vivian, and did not see these
signs. He was very grave, and though he
regarded her steadfastly, almost absently,
he did not speak.

Are you going to stay long, Mr. Sey-mour
f

I think that depends wholly on you,"
he replied.

She opened her eyes in astonishment.

Pray do not talk so enigmatically,"
said Kate, eagerly, giving him a warning
flash from her sparkling eyes. " We are
not clever enough to read symbolic language
offhand. Mr. Seymour, here is the
specimen I was searching for. You shall
have the pleasure of returning it to Mary
yourself."

Now, all this meant nothing, as he well
knew. When Mrs. Elmore moved away, his
eyes followed her expressively.

If you do," said Kate, in a ferocious
undertone, " you will be acting diametrically
opposite to my wishes, and I shall
never forgive you. Not that you care for
that, and — I would not have you care."

He answered her emphatic words by a
glance. What the wonderful infusion of
meaning in his eyes, who can tell ?

Her low voice ceased, the angry light
died straight out of her eyes, and the girl's
honest love shone from every feature of her
expressive face.

Calm and collected, and perfectly satisfied
with his tacit retort, he stood silent.
The interview was over. They were joined
by Adelaide and the colonel, and the conversation
became general.

I only made one real error," said
Bathurst, after they left the house, in so
earnest a tone that any hearer less preoccupied
would have laughed outright.

*' You're not half o'ood at intro-ue — never
will win by a fluke that way."

Hem ! You are cleverer in that particular.
You found plenty of matter in the
workbox this morning."

I did. I always follow up a success. I
told her briefly what I meant to do."

But you didn't say when 1 "

No ; I left that to chance."

The colonel looked relieved. " Remember
your promise, Yin," he said, seriously.
Then, with a Cjuick outburst, " Don't
destroy all our — our comfort at one stroke !
Don't break the ice till it's thinner ! "

*' Since you are so warm — mind you
don't melt it. What is your own aim ?
what is your own end ? "

Simply this — friendship is a pleasant
thing — intimacy with those we find "

'■ Perdition catch my soul ! if I did
expect to hear an advocacy of Platonic
friendship from you''

'' I am the very person from whom you
should expect it," said Bathurst, severely.
But for a contretemps of a most peculiar
nature, you would have known nothing of
my — my attraction to Miss Elmore. No
one would have known that such a feeling
existed in me. I am determined to busy
it, Vivian — and it would be well for you to
follow my example."

Lead on ; I'll follow thee ! " exclaimed the
young man, utterly ignoring his uncle's tone.
I don't doubt the road will be pleasant."

Seriously," pursued the colonel, impressively,
"from what I saw this morning, I
must entreat you to be more careful "

Seriously, uncle, from what took place
this morning I really must beg you to be
careful, or you'll shatter my comfort at a
blow. Without any nonsense, we stand in
precisely the same position ! "

I beg your pardon ! I accept the inevitable
; you do not."

I beg your pardon I You think you
accept the inevitable ; you intend to do
so. You are laying a pretty bit of pavement
in a place we won't mention. It's
highly ornamental — edged off with tints
of exquisitely tender shades of that moral,
tone that must be rarely seen there.
Lookers-on see most of the game."

"So I think," said Bathurst, shortly.
All I want you to do is to promise not
to interfere with the harmony "

Of the meeting ? Certainly not. I've
my own ends in view. Your very anxiety
betrays your feeling."

I don't want to disown it," said
Bathurst, a little testily. " I want to impress

upon you that there's no occasion to
be in such a desperate hurry. Young and
impulsive as you are, friendship is — unsatisfactory
"

It's infernal nonsense ! "

In your case, yes," observed the colonel,
with heat.

Let us be cool by all means," laughed
Vivian.

Bathurst joined him ; he was able to
turn the laugh on himself as well as any
man.

Why should you be afraid ? " continued
Vivian, closing his eyes and leaning back
in the laziest of lazy attitudes, peering at
his uncle through his eyelashes, and making
a deep study of him — "why should you be
afraid of my breaking the ice ? "

Because, since you will have it," cried
Bathurst, most energetically — "because I've
already broken it myself ! — There ! "

Plies ! " whistled Vivian.

The colonel went on peremptorily,

^ Well, now you know ! Kate has confessed
her love for you "

Who said so ? "

I know it ; but it's not to the purpose."
I beg your pardon ; it is very much."
*' Because this is so, and because she
is so young — because you are both young —
is the very reason why you can afford to
wait the tide of events, and on cool deliberation
find what is best for both of you."
Because you have broken the ice, and

because Adelaide has confessed her love "

Confound it, Vin ! I can't have this ! "
exclaimed the colonel, angrily.

It's just what you said to me," observed
Vivian, calmly. " 1 didn't fly into a
passion."

But then it was true ! I never dreamt
of admitting; such elinor. Indeed, it is
only by promising Mrs. Elmore to hold
my tongue that I can be admitted on
any terms of intimacy. Adelaide knows
nothing."

'' Well, then, be it understood for your
sake, I will let things drift for a while."

This was very magnanimous, seeing that
Vivian knew full well that to speak now
would endanger his cause.

sewell, I'm glad it's settled," said
Bathurst, heartily.

We — couldn't very well go over to the
Glade to-day, I suppose ? "

'' We can't go for a couple of days at
least."

'* Well, don't go sneaking over there by
yourself now — and saying it was all an
accident "

Why, you young dog, these are your
tricks ! Who prepared the first ' accident,'
eh ? I never heard the truth of that."

'you have to thank me for the whole
of the 'friendship ' you hope to enjoy."

CHAPTER y.

THE COLONEL Expresses HIS VIEWS ON
"Friendship."

Seeing that no proposal was made to call
at the Glace next morning, O'Buncous
became impatient. He hinted broadly,
and the more broadly the more vainly ;
for Bathurst was firm.

I tell you what it is," broke out the
major, as a final clause, " my reputation asa
gentleman is at stake ! I promised — and
a gentleman's word of honour to a lady
is sacred — I promised "

Make as many appointments with Aunt
Flora as you like — out of doors. She'll
keep 'em ! "

Surely, Bathurst," expostulated the

VOL. iii. 43

major, earnestly — " surely you forget the
time of the year ? "

I don't forget anything. My reputation
is at stake."

Excuse me ; I go as a friend of that
lady. I knew her before you introduced
us. I am in an independent position. I
might be that lady's affianced husband
tomorrow. Who is to prevent me? — who,
I say, is to prevent me ? "

I have no wish to prevent you from
following Aunt Flora to the ends of the
earth, but not while she is in Mrs. Storehouses
I regard myself somewhat in the
light of that lady's guardian, and I must
insist upon your not intruding upon her
privacy."

Well, I do like the cheek of some
people ! I'm an older friend than you are !
If you come to that, I've more right ■ "

Old friendships be hanged 1 "

*' Oh, hang everything if it finishes the
argument ! You object to forming new

acquaintances in the form of Miss Flora
Walker "

^^ Anything is preferable to an ' old friendship
! ' " exclaimed Bathurst, fiercely.

'" I don't know about that ; it gives a
good deal of freedom," said the major,
reflectively — " by the Lord, it gives a good
deal too much ! "

'• I think so too," observed Bathurst,
gazing at his old friend with expressive
eyes.

But hang it ! you take more liberties
with me than I do with you. I never
attempt to control your movements."

The major made this observation in a
tone that was quite irresistible. Bathurst
could not help laughing.

But I don't stalk into your domestic
pastures "

But you should if I had 'em, old fellow.
Nothing would give me greater pleasure
than to have a fine place like this of my
own."

"No doubt, no doubt," said Bathurst,
taking a note from a servant. " You will
excuse me."

He read the brief message, and, putting
it in his pocket, went in search of
Vivian.

There," he said, putting the note before
him, " I'm not going to ' sneak,' but I'm
going over there without you."

His nephew threw down his book. He
did not read the note ; he knew it was a
message from Mrs. Elmore.

I wonder what's wrong ? " he said.
There must be something wrong, because
they don't send invitations. I hope — it is
not outside probability — she has not caught
that fever."

Bathurst did not smile at the sudden
apprehension ; he had too much sympathy
with the fine, handsome youth, who stood
biting his lip, with absent eyes.

She only wants to ask a word of
advice," said the colonel. '' I'm going at

once, because they are all out, it being the
first fine day for weeks."

Although he spoke carelessly, he was
anything but content. The request augured
ill, as every incident will to a mind involved
in an issue, and he had a disturbing
recollection of the singular remark she had
made.

Mrs. Elmore met him most cordially.
You are so good," she said, '' so kind
and generous in everything you do, that
it almost disarms one from asking a favour."
Then she paused and looked at him in a way
that a gainer man might have found embarrassing.
"But for the mutual knowledge
we find a burden," she went on, hesitatingly,
I should not think of making such a proposal
as I am about to make. Fortunately,
however, I have sufficient means to prevent
any pecuniary question. Let me — how
shall I say it ? I've taken this house on
an arrangement for three years. I wish
I had never more to put my foot outside

the place till the end of my days. But,
colonel, the struofrle has to be made — It
should be done at once. It would be
better for all concerned if we were to leave
the Glade."

He was silent.

"I am sure you will not deny me ; I
know you too well. But for that very
reason I will not accept your permission,
unless you allow me to pay the whole
amount "

I am inexpressibly sorry," he said ; and
then he stopped.

I am sure it is for the best."

I don't believe wee either of us know
what is for the best."

"It is my duty to prevent trouble, and
I am courting it."

Cannot you trust me ? "

But — is there any law to say she —
Adelaide — oh, colonel ! I do feel able to
trust you. From some singular observations
that were at first confusing to me, I

have reason to believe that she even now
takes more interest in you than — we desire.
Think — think what it must be for a mother
to say these words." She stopped, and' her
eyes filled up with tears. " If you will
know all, I tell you freely," she went on in
great agitation, '^ I would give all the world
to be able to see my daughter your wife.
But what should not be insist not be."

Don't — now don't disturb yourself," he
said, tenderly taking her hand. "I am
ready to assist you in any way. Do not
act too hastily." He was tempted to say,
"You do not know of Adelaide's preference."
The words hovered on his lips, but he would
not, could not utter them. '' Leave it fora
little while ; wait till the weather breaks
up. There is too great a risk in leaving
now.

'' There is too o^reat a risk staving now,"
she said, earnestly. '' I know the strength
of human passion too well. The mere fancy,
the mere attraction, may be broken ; but

once fixed in a woman — alas ! My anxiety
is not without a cause."

What would you do ? "

Go at once — take my children abroad
change scene and circumstance. They
must be interested in travel. Tien I would
return alone, when winter is over, and remove
from the Glade without their knowledge."


Bathurst looked hopelessly helpless. Now
was a time when, if he had not known the
truth, he must have asked for it. He pulled
his moustache, and gazed gloomily at his
own visage in the glass opposite.

You will go from the frying pan into
the fire, to use a homely proverb," he said
at last. "Your girls are far too beautiful
to pass anywhere unnoticed. You know
Avhat some men are ; you know how much
consideration they would be likely to show."

No ! " she exclaimed, putting up her
hand in horror. " I would rather give my
children all to you — to your care — than let

them take such risk as you hint at, even
with their rectitude ! Oh, here they come !
How soon they have returned ! " She
hurriedly glanced at herself to see if all
traces of agitation had disappeared. '^ God
only knows how difficult it is for me to
smile sometimes ! "

The colonel would have found it very
difficult himself just then.

The gii-ls came in together, Aunt Flora
with them.

'•' You should have gone, mamma ; it was
quite a treat," said Adelaide. " AYe may
not have such another day. How do you
do, colonel ? I'm veri glad you have called.
I hate to leave her alone. I always find her
below concert pitch "

*' I'm never up to it, dear," said her
mother, with a wan smile.

Bathurst could have wept as he looked
at her. Aunt Flora's voice was a terrible
jar upon his feelings.

Where's the major ? " she said, ad wanting.

" Has he met with an injury ? I
have been quite apprehensive about him,
the girls will tell you."

She puckered up her face in an effort to
look arch, and this simple-hearted man felt
quite sorry for her.

Now, there's a woman," thought he,
who has been trying to get married all
her life."

The irony of circumstance was too much
for him.

I'll tell him," he said, with vague
brevity.

Oh, don't ! " she exclaimed, with a little
shriek. *' I couldn't bear him to know I
thought about him so much. I have no
doubt he's a dreadful flirt, like most of
your sex."

I don't think he resembles most of his
sex," Batliurst observed, quietly.

Your colonel is the most stupid man I
ever met. What can you all see in him ? "
she whispered to Kate.

I adore him," Kate whispered, energetically.


Well, you say it as if you hated him."

'* I have two newspapers I thought you
would like to see," said Bathurst aside to
Adelaide. " A favourite politician of yours
made a speech last week at Manchester,
which has provoked some interesting discussions."


Thank you. Where are they ? "

In the pocket of my great coat. I'm
going now, so perhaps you will see me out."

With just an answering smile, she refastened
the clasp of her cloak, sang,
''' I'm oroino^ to the orate with the colonel,
mamma."

'well!" exclaimed Aunt Flora, when
they had gone out, " of all the freedom your
girls have with men — there ! I never saw
anything to equal it in my life ! "

Mrs. Elmore coloured. There was some
acidity in her voice as she answered, " They
never see any man, except under my eye ;

they have never known any but Colonel
Bathurst and his nephew."

Fm sure I heard of a Doctor Somebody
• — an Irish name, I think. I'm very fond
of Irishmen. Then there's Major O'Buncous.
It's a pretty good selection."

Bathurst and Adelaide did not speak until
they where in the garden. Then he said,
*' Mrs. Elmore has been telling me you are
going to leave the Glade."

Here he made an abrupt pause, aud said
no more. Adelaide glanced at him in surprise.


I've never heard of it," she said.

Are you tired ? "

No. I'm very sorry she did not consult
me. Whit you, colonel ? You ought to
be nothing to her. She refers everything
to you. She thinks always of what you
Avill say. She has perfect faith in you."

I am very glad to hear it. However,
she has only asked my permission to leave
the house. No ; I simply tell you because

I should like to know your pleasure on
the matter."

'personally," said she, gravely, "it can
matter very little to me. I have become so
thoroughly attached to the place and — its
surroundings — that I am sure I should
never like any place in the world so well.
I am, however, resolved to enter into some
active employment in the world as soon as
I have strength."

Do you mean that absolutely ? "

"Most certainly. I must have work."

You will not think of Grimslade
adam {

Why not ? "

It is a hateful place ! "

"Yes; of course, you know its reputation
well enough to know what it is like. I
do not love Grimslade, nor do many of
the people who live there, I think. That
is a very sad reflection."

I hope you are not possessed with an
idea that the only way to do any good

is to do something in exact opposition to
your inclinations."

She Laughed. '*No more than you do,
colonel. And everybody knows you act
up to your whims."

Do I ? " he said, gently.

Well, you told me so. You say a
man should enjoy as much as he can, still
doing something for society incidentally.
Now, placed as I am, there is no chance
of following inclination."

Is there not ? "

Why do you speak so absently ? You
are vexed."

No ; I am hurt.

He did not know how he longed to hear
from this woman's lips something that would
express her regard for him. He told himself
he ought to have been satisfied with
what he knew. Had he not told Vivian
that very morning that he did not desire
her love ? But once alone with her, all his
lofty aspirations faded, and he forgot all

but her presence — her actual being ; she
absorbed him completely. It was happiness
only to be with her.

Hurt ^. " she asked, slowly.

I am indescribably sorry to lose you
all. I don't think a man has any right to
live alone. You are not going back to that
wretched parson ? "

Who told you about him ? It is clear
mamma tells you everything. What can
she see in you ? "

"You don't tell me anything."

I don't know ^\h.J I should. What do
you want to know ? "

Oh, it was a crucial test 1 That beautiful
face, with the unconscious happy eyes looking
into his. It was well another face —
a pale, tearful face — intercepted that view.
Honour had only to whisper.

You would not o;o there assail ? "

I have doubts of my own capacity for
that work. X Mrs. Furnival, whom I met,
was very anxious for my assistance. I

should be welcomed by her and initiated
into other things."

What does she do ? "

I hardly know. She takes a great
interest in the poor, and organizes charities ;
but she cannot work among them. She
said that I was not fit for it. She was
polite enough to say I was wasting my
time."

She is a very clever woman."

She is wise."

That's a nice distinction. What makes
you say that ? "

Because she talked of things I do not
understand. Her views appeared peculiar.
But she is good and genuine, I am convinced.
If I failed with her, I should understand
why."

Does Mrs. Elmore approve of this ? "

"If Mrs. Elmore does not — you will,
and that will prevent all disputes."

I wish I had my way ! " he said, with
a sigh.

I'm sure you should if I had mine."

It was positively tantalizing ! However
delightful it moonlit be to be with her, it
was dangerous to the last degree. He had
to exercise a constant self-control, of which
she seemed to be unaware. That was the
worst of it. Yet, if she were afraid, she
would avoid him. Could he admit he would
like that, after so slight a chi as he had
had?

I mast go now' she said.

Yes ; you wil be cold."

Oh no."

vor,. 111. 44

CHAPTEE VI.

"the plan I WOULD ADOPT WOULD BE
AMBUSH."

Bathurst had no sooner returned than his
nephew came to him. Neither spoke ;
each waited for the other. Vivian turned
out a few books from the shelves, and
unconsciously put them back again. It
became evident the desired information was
not forthcoming. Running over the leaves
of the last book he did not want, he said
abruptly —

What did she say ? "

Bathurst hesitated. This was too close.
He did not intend to repeat all Mrs. Elmore
had said. There was sincerity, and there
was also discretion.

Can't you remember anything lie said ? "
Vivian asked, with some impatience.

[Mrs. Elmore has taken me into her
confidence "

*mrs. Elmore ! I meant Kate."

My dear boy, I forgot there was but
one ' she ' in the wide world just now. I
did not hear Kate's voice. The girls came
in just as I was leaving ; indeed, that was
why I left."

'•' Well, how did she look ? "

Very rosy — after a battle with the north
wind."

I'll wager any amount of money that
you heard Adelaide's voice ! You would
manage that by some means,"

The colonel felt guilty. This boy was very
hard on him.

"That was necessary " he commenced,

a little stiffly.

*' I could find it— necessary," remarked
Vivian.

Well, the whole result," said Bathurst,

emphatically — "the whole result is, they're
going to leave the place."

Indeed ? " said Vivian, with an air of
surprise, plainly not at the fact of their
leaving, but at the manner in which the
announcement was made.

Yes ; and I think, under all circumstances,
Mrs. Elmore couldn't have chosen
a better course. It cuts off all further
intimacy at one blow ; it removes all conditions
of restraint ; it — in fact, it "

Does remove many degrees of restraint,
because, for some excuse or other, a man
can follow them about and offer his assistance
"

I won't have it, Vin ! "

But the exclamation was made in perfect
good-humour.

'•' My dear uncle, I assure you that if
they go to the North Pole, it won't affect
me. You know that it won't affect you."

If they only go into the next county it
will affect me," said Bathurst, with emphasis.

I don't think any gentleman would intrude
upon ladies who had "

Taken so much trouble to get out of the
way ? No. The plan I would adopt would
be ambush."

Both men laughed. Vivian significantly ;
Bathurst unwillingly, as though he had
been betrayed.

*' I cannot make you take the position
seriously enough," he said. " You are mad
to persevere in the face of such obstacles."

I know of none," said Vivian, sternly.
But I intend to know of one at least that
shall be sufficient reason to me — to me
personally — or I will have none of it."

To you personally ? You won't let her
stand in the way ? "

She won't stand in the way ; we two
count one."

Oh, this bold fervour of youth ! How
beautiful a thing it was to witness !

I'll save you all the trouble, Vin ;
and all the pain, since you will have it,"

said the colonel, reluctantly. " I should not
give up my hope quite so quietly, if I did
not know that marriage with one of those
girls would be impossible for a man of right
feeling."

Vivian regarded his uncle with a sudden
painful interest. It seemed a cruel thing to
deal that blow ; but it must be done.

It's almost a pity the thing was not
understood at first. Has Kate ever mentioned
her father ? "

Her father ? No ! But I see how it is.
He forged a bill, or something — it's done in
novels and on the stage till one's tired of it.
What are the girls the worse for that ? I
know what you would say — the honour of
one's name. I am beyond all that."

At this moment there was an interruption.
A knock at the door, and a well-known
voice said —

May I come in ? "

Eeilly ! " exclaimed Bathurst, starting
up.

There was undeniable pleasure in the
tone. The next moment the men were
grasping hands.

Ah, Seymour ! I did not expect to see

you."

"No, nor I you' said Vivian. "This is
a world of surprises."

"You are looking uncommonly well.
Does that ankle give you any trouble now ? "

I feel it occasionally, but "

But not in the ankle, doctor," said Bathurst.
"It's a most extraordinary case ;
it's flown to the heart."

That's bad ! A sprain there isn't so
easily managed, but that's a sprain we must
all have, sooner or later. The heart tries
every man," said Eeilly, gravely.

It does try a man," said Bathurst, emphatically.
" Eeilly, I'm better pleased to
see you than any man I know. You Twill
find your old room — and anything you want
by application to the bell handle. I hope
your time's not limited ? "

That's unanswerable," said Reilly, with
a laugh. " I don t know the limit."

It was not until they met at dinner that
Reilly knew O'Buncous was in the house.
He gave an unmistakable start as he recognized
the major, with whiter linen than ever,
and more bejewelled.

'what, you here again, Eeilly ? This is
just like a bit of a play, where the same set
of people are always turning up again and
again''

*' Yes," said Reilly, pleasantly ; " but we
all seem to be in statu quo."

"Appearances, then, are deceptive," muttered
the colonel.

O'Buncous shrugged his shoulders and
looked puzzled. " Not being a doctor," he
said, " I don't understand Latin. But
whatever in statu qiio may be, I'm in it."

The autumn manoeuvres are over, major,"
laughed Reilly.

Over ! " thought Bathurst, in bitterness
of spirit. Alas ! it was over. Do what he

would, he could not throw off the oppression
that weighed upon him. Although he
strove for Eeilly's sake to be genial and
easy, he found the effort too much.

Vivian, never a great talker, was also
preoccupied, and Reilly and he understood
each other too thoroughly to admit of a
necessity for complimentary conversation.
Therefore O'Buncous had it all his own
way. There were no nice dissertations on
poetry, philosophy, politics, and the like,
in all of which he found himself lamentably
deficient. He rattled on, obtaining sometimes
a reply, and quite unconscious that
hardly any one followed him.

Bathurst was longing for a quiet talk
with Eeilly ; and as far as Vivian could
use the portion of mind that remained with
him — the portion that was not at the
Glade — he was occupied in the most contemptuous
observation of O'Buncous. That
such an old fool should interfere with all
their interests, and bore them so unmercifully,

was a little too much for his equanimity.


Observing all this with his quiet, comprehensive
eye, Eeilly came to the conclusion
things were going badly. He never ventured
one word as to the Glade, although his
thoughts were more there than here.

'' Forgive me, Eeilly ; I never asked you,"
said Bathurst, pushing the decanter.

I beg your pardon ; you have asked mea
dozen times at least. You are absent inspirit,
colonel," he added, in a lower tone.

Bathurst gave a nod of acquiescence, and
one of his cordial, friendly glances.

Why are you not taking any wine ?
You have not to perform an operation tonight."


'' I feel safer without stimulant."

*' Where have you been knocking about
since we parted ? "

Well — I was at home — until I wrote to
you." There was a slight pause. The men
looked at each other. " After that I couldn't

rest, even there. I went abroad for change
of scene and action. I'd seen a good deal
of the south of Europe — I couldn't well try
Norway at this season — so I took Belgium
and Holland. I stayed a week in one of
your favourite towns — Bruges."

O'Buncous caught the word.

Ah, Bruges ! That's one of my favourite
towns, Eeilly ! Lord ! Bruges. I've had to
go there sometimes — when duns have been
too attentive. I remember once having a
chop there — such a chop as no man ever saw
before — all bone."

It couldn't have been a chop," observed
Eeilly.

I don't understand anatomy. They got
it from somewhere. I shall never forget it,
because it's the last straw, you know, that
breaks the camel's back, and we'd abbacy
been served with high fish and cold soup.
I wouldn't have minded so much, but a
lady was with me — the present Countess Fri-sell.
Another annoyance was, I invariably

addressed the waiter in French, ' Avez vous

de kickshaws ? ' and he as invariably spoke

in the vilest English. Taking it to be the

fellow's impudence — never having found my

French doubtful — I lost my temper when it

came to the chop, and asked him in English

if he thought the dinner fit for a pig. Even

then he pretended to misunderstand me,

saying again and again, 'Which you like,

minor' ; which you like.' * Don't you see

what's the matter ? ' said my companion —

the present Countess Friselle — ' don't you

see that the man is deaf ? ' She could

scarcely speak for laughing — that was the

present countess "

*' Not knowing the countess by her present
cognomen, what mio-ht it have been in the
past ? " inquired the doctor.

That," said O'Buncous, in solemn accents,
is now wrapped in oblivion, as far as the
public is concerned. I am a man of honour
in oblivion it will remain ! "

I commend your principles, O'Buncous,"

said Eeilly. " Friselle in pace — let her
frizzle in peace, I say. She must have been
a fascinating female to have gained your
attention."

'she was the Venus di Medicis in the
flesh. Gentlemen," said the major, magniloquently,
" without a word of exaggeration
— and I can speak coolly on the subject
now — that woman's eyelashes were three-quarters
— nearer seven-eighths of an inch
long "

"Don't perjure yourself," said Eeilly,
with much gravity; "you never measured
them."

Why, talk about beauty "

"Nobody was "

Well, dinners, then ! Talking about
dinners — though I don't see why a man
shouldn't change a subject — I once gave a
dinner to the celebrated Lord Bamverdon
and a few other men of the same stamp.
We were abroad, and I gave them an
English dinner. They were amazed — and

SO was I, to tell the truth — for I'd ordered
pea-soup to begin with. The Lord knows
what they put in it I You should have
tasted it — we all did."

"I'd rather have been excused," said
Bathurst.

Ah, you're over - nice ! Nothing can
surpass pea-soup — as it ought to be. But
proving everything by extremes, I don't
think it's possible for any mixture to have
come up, or rather down, to that soup."

I might mix one," said Reilly, mechanically.


"I'd made up my mind for a novelty —
and I had it with a vengeance. There was
the curry. We had had six dishes at the
time, all uneatable. ' I believe it's genuine
this time,' said Lord Bamverdon, examining
his plate. ' There is rice here, and surely' —
he dragged out a bone the length of my
arm — 'a relic of some bird.' It must have
been a turkey's leg, I think, though I never
did see such length on an English bird.

The claws, too, were on it. We examined
them. Lord Bamverdon, I remember,
dropped his glasses in his plate. ' How
much are you going to pay for this dinner,
O'Buncous ? ' he asked. For although a man
of great wealth, he had an eye to such
things. ' Just as much as they get ! ' and
the devil a penny they ever did get ! After
it was all over, we all went out to the
nearest restaurant, and had the Lest one-franc
-fifty dinner you can get in Lyons,
and Lord Bamverdon, I remember well,
paid for it.'^

"A pleasant reminiscence, major, and a
capital hint for those who want to give
a cheap entertainment."

And I'll stake no man forgot it ! "
Bathurst and Eeilly strolled out on the
verandah, and lit their cigars. They were
both silent, and the major s laughter already
sounded miles away. While Bathurst was
considering the possibility of a private word,
Eeilly commenced with —

6) »

"Are things in statu quo f

No," said the other, with a vigorous pufF.

Cured ? "

No ; worse. For myself, Reilly, a man
of my years — the matter is — well, we won't
say how it is. It may be manageable, but
it's not easy. I'm concerned about that
boy."

He seems to take things pretty coolly."

The seeming is a mistake ; he is most
impetuous, most determined. Cool ! yes ;
he's daring enough to carry the girl off if
he got the chance. His coolness is misleading."


How about her ? "

"I think she is as bad. There's my
difficulty."

Does he face the fact without a shudder?"

I haven't told him."

"Haven't told him ! "

'' I was weakly hoping to avoid that contingency.
Somehow, I hate to put it into
words."

'' You should have written and kept him
away."

"AAYell, it will soon be over now. Mrs.
Elmore is going away."

'away! Why?"

Simply for — the retirement she desires.
We've got, you see, to understand each
other — I may say to like each other so much
that it would appear unnatural if we were
not to meet."

*' She has chosen a wise course."

Yes ; I agree with her," said the
colonel, despondingly.

*' Has Miss Elmore given wp her intention
of oroino' out in the world ao-ain ? "

That is doubtful, I should think,
although she has that design. Mrs. Elmore
is o'oino; to travel with them."

Travel ! She'll lose them on the road.
What a pity ! what a thousand pities !
They are such beautiful women ! Leave
Seymour to me."

*' You'll do it better," said Bathurst, in

VOL. III. 45

a tone of relief. " Here he comes ! Til
keep you clear of O'Buncous."

"There's a change in both," thought Reilly
" a decided change. It has been a strong
attack on both sides."

His eyes dwelt on the advancing figure of
Vivian with so strong a sympathy that it
might be almost pity.

My dear fellow' he exclaimed, " I'm
glad to see you walk like that ! May I be
allowed to say I didn't expect it ? "

You may be allowed what you please,"
said Vivian, in one of those undertones that
came from him with such pathos.

"I'm glad of that," said Reilly, "because
I'm going to ask a home question.
Are you unwise enough to pursue a
shadow ? "

Psha ! Reilly, you're as bad as my
uncle ; you're tied to a mere superstition."

You have made up your mind, then,
that these four women — cleverer, decidedly,
than women on the average are, and with

far more decision and strength of purpose
that these women are misled by irrational
superstition ? "

No. They have been trained to it, and
conscience is a religion with them."

*' You have thought it strange that she
has not given you the absolute reason ? "

How do you know she has not ? "

I am sure she has not ; because you
are not the man to act in defiance of the
laws of nature itself. Put aside all higher
feeling, your reason alone would inlluence
you.

Then you know ? "

I do ; and your uncle. He submits to
the inevitable. So do I."

You ? "

Yes, I. Would you have had anv
chance with her, do you think, if I had
entered the lists ? "

The young man turned, and the bright
light from the room shone full upon his
face.

'' What are you talking about ? " he said,
in low, well-controlled tones. " Do you
know what a woman's heart is ? You may
understand the anatomy of it, but nothing
else. I believe that no man living could
have reached her heart but myself."

A curious smile passed quickly over
Reilly's face.

*' Well, then, I will go as far as to agree
with you. Nevertheless, I was quite earnest
when I said I, too, had submitted to fate.
Would you now — with even the knowledge
you have of man's organization — would you
marry a woman whose father had been for
years an inmate of a lunatic asylum, and
had died a raving maniac ? "

Vivian stood as if petrified. Not an
exclamation escaped him, but his face paled
suddenly. The colour had risen when he
spoke of Kate.

'' What a beautiful face it is in its marble
stillness ! " thought lineally ; and he almost
repented.

He did not speak again ; he gave Vivian
time to recover.

There is no law, that I can see — there
is a risk."

^' Is it possible there can be a temptation
to take that risk ? Think of her''

It is of her I am thinking. You and
my uncle, it appears, have only yourselves
to think of. My position is different. She
has admitted her love for me, and I
have to consider her." Oh, the pride of
these few words ! "If she were to elect
to risk the possibilities you look upon as
certainties, I should consider her."

You are deceiving yourself. Seymour,
you could not do it ; I know you well. I
know that you cannot, even though you
would, blind yourself. I know what the discovery
must be ; I know what it is to your
nature — and to hers. I know a Q-reat deal
more than you think."

And here, strangely enough, the self-contained
man suddenly lost his balance.

There was a peculiar break in his voice,
and his hand grasped Vivian's, and wrung
it almost as if he were congratulation the
young man heart and soul. Vivian's eyes
were half dazed as he lifted them.

'*I — I never gave you credit for feeling
like that," he said, vaguely ; " and yet I
might have known that self-control does
not mean want of passion. You are a
stronger man than I."

It won't do for a man to give way but
once in a while," said Eeilly. " I must
have a cigar, I think."

I must have — anything but O'Buncous.
He would drive me mad now ! "

'* No, don't go away by yourself ; that's
the worst thing to do. I want you to talk
to me."

But Seymour made no attempt at speech,
and in the dead stillness of the dark melancholy
night the major's boisterous voice
rang out harshly —

o

'the most awkward denouement in the
world — her wis: came off ! "

Vivian turned from his companion and
dashed out into the darkness with impatient
strides, and Reilly followed him.

CHAPTER VII.

o'buncous is prompted by prudence.

'' I suppose, Reilly, you would like to call
on Mrs. Elmore to-day ? " asked Bathurst,
experimentally.

Do you call every day ? "

Not exactly'*

Can't you keep O'Buncous here ? "

It isn't worth the trouble. There is an
old woman over there who takes him off
our hands."

Don't go simply on my account."

*' You would have to call tomorrow ; soit
comes to the same thing."

Not quite ; we might go tomorrow
as well."

Then both laughed at their own earnestness.


"Ye'll take the best the gods have to give
us, since there will not be much more of it."

Would you like to make a bet ? " asked
Eeilly, lightly.

The colonel shook his head.

^^ Do ! I never made one in my life ;
but I'm ready to stake everything I possess
that they won't go, after all."

Can't take you in — haven't the conscience.
Mrs. Elmore has taken steps
already."

I've known steps to be retraced," said
Reilly, significantly. " This is a strange
world, Bathurst ; full of changes. For
aught you know, you may be retracing steps
yourself tomorrow. By-the-bye, where is
Seymour ? "

I haven't seen him since breakfast. I
must look him up at once. Somehow,
I don't like the way he has taken that
disclosure. Oh, here he is ! "

Vivian looked, to use a common term,
used up. He was pale, inattentive, and
desponding.

After a few minutes of desultory talk, he
said abruptly, " Fm going out for a long
walk — alone. It will do me good. Fm
not in a society frame of mind."

You'll be back in time ? We are going
over to the Glade this afternoon."

Are you ? I am not."

You may as well go."

I think not. And — don't wait dinner.
I cannot tell where I may be."

To Bathurst's apprehensive mind there
was something weird and unnatural in this
remark.

"I am sorry," he began, regretfully, "very
sorry, I did not tell you the truth before.
But, you see, I didn't know it myself
until I was at Grimslade. And you had
only been here two days when Reilly
came."

It doesn't matter now," said Vivian,

quietly. "Nothing is of any consequence
as far as I can see."

'' One thing is of consequence to me — yon
are. You see that I was redit, and you
also accept the inevitable. But don't do
anything questionable. There will be but
few such occasions as this. Perhaps, however,
you would like to go home ? "

No," answered the young man, slowly ;
I'd rather not g:o there until I have o't
over the worst of it."

*****

AVe shall never be done with surprises ! "
exclaimed Adelaide, shaking hands with
Eeilly.

Her manner was most cordial, and she
looked brio-iter and, he thought, vouno'er
than when he saw her last. " Happier, too,"
thought he, as he looked into her eves.

"I hope not," he said, laughing, "because
you seem to like them."

I like this one," she said, *'' and so will
mamma. Have you come to stay ? "

Must I be quite honest ? "

Oh, quite ! As the colonel knows, I
never allow the merest approach to subterfuge."


Well, then, I do not know what I came
for, nor how long I shall stay."

Doctor Reilly, I do not believe you."

Nevertheless, it is true."

Do you believe him, colonel ? "

He's an enigma to me. But he is
welcome, and that he knows."

Do look at O'Buncous ! "

Yes ; isn't it curious?" laughed Adelaide.
And Aunt Flora is always talking about
him to mamma's great annoyance. By the
way, colonel, would you mind going to her ?
She's in the morning-room, writing; and she
wants you."

Bathurst departed obediently.

Mrs. Elmore was sitting at the writing-table
with a handful of papers when he
went in. "I'm extremely glad to see you,"
she said. *' I'm afraid I should have had

to send a message, if you lead not called today.
Does it not seem that I do nothing
but appeal to you ? However, it is not a
favour I have to ask this time, but merely
an opinion."

I should be better pleased with a favour,
Mrs. Elmore," said he, sitting down.

Then she explained briefly that, in anticipation
of her removal, she had demanded
two hundred pounds from her lawyers, and
that they had sent an indefinite message,
which she could not understand. She
passed him the note, and he read it.

Write and ask for an explanation of
this," he said.

I have already done so. This is the
reply ; it is a facsimile of the first."

Bathurst stroked his beard thoughtfully.
He had too much native delicacy to ask a
leading question, but he wanted to know
more concerning her investments*!

do not understand business," said she,
''so I hardly know how to give you the

details. I have never lived up to my
income, and I have instructed my agents
to invest the surplus as they thought
best."

I will tell you what I will do. It
happens that I am going to town within
a day or two, and while there I will make
inquiries, assuming I have your permission."

She looked at him gratefully, but only
uttered a simple "Thank you'' What
would she do when she would not have
this pillar of strength to lean upon ?

Something of the kind seemed to be
passing through his mind, for he went on
gravely, " I should like you to promise me
that, whatever you may do in the future,
and wherever you may be, you will not fail
to appeal to me in case of emergency. That
is all you can do for me, and I should not
like to feel that any one else should be the
recipient of your confidence."

Her eyes were more than grateful now ;
they were positively tender.

At this moment all the young people
came in, and there was an abrupt pause.

Why did you come here ? " asked j\Irs.
Elmore.

Because you were here," said Adelaide,
laughing. 'rand we infinitely prefer the
colonel and you to Aunt Flora and the
major.

I'm very glad to hear that," said he,
rising to shake hands with Kate.

He looked down into her sweet face, and
felt his heart sink when he noted the slight
tremulous motion of her lips and the sudden
droop of her eyelids.

Is Mr. Seymour not well to-day ? " she
asked, in a voice that was only just audible.

'*• He — he is not himself," stammered
Bathurst, truthfully.

He recognized the effort she had made to
utter the commonplace question as fully ashe
recognized his own lono-inor for the rio-ht
of only looking at the woman he loved.

Soon after the men left, and Bathurst felt

his depression deepen with every step he
took. Kate's swift entreaties: glance haunted
him.

O'Buncous was in high spirits. *' What
a thing a woman is against a girl ! " he
exclaimed. He was a little out of breath,
because he could not keep pace with Bathurst's
stride. " There's such a response,
you see. Well, wit in a woman is a good
addition to beauty. By the way, Bathurst,
I should like to have your opinion now.
What do you think of Miss Walker ?
She tells me she's in independent circumstances
through the death of a relative last
June, and that her means are entirely under
her own control. Not that I care — as you
know. Confound it, how fast you do walk !
You might make a fortune at it, and carry
a flag and go round a course. Have you
heard one word I've been saying ? "

I really don't know," said Bathurst,
curtly. '' I can't follow your raptures."

How bad it must be to get old so

younor I " And having; delivered himself
of this piece of wisdom, O'Bimcous halted
for breath, and picked up Reilly, ^vho had
stopped to light a cigar.

I can't get anything out of Bathurst ;
he's as dull as any ditch in the country.
Now, you ought to know what's the matter
with him ; of course you observe the difference
?

I do observe that he's more thoughtful
than usual, and does not appear to care for
society at present."

Oh, doesn't he ? Not for the society of
his own sex, perhaps. But I have myself
observed what you say, and I really think
that, considering the short term of your
acquaintance — I don't really think, if I were
in your place, I should stop."

Thank you, O'Buncous, thank you. Your
advice is most ingenuous. I intend, however,
having motives of my own, to remain."

By Jove, so do I ! " exclaimed O'Buncous,

warmly. " Indeed, I may tell you — in strict
VOL. III. 46

confidence — that I have a strong motive in
remaining here."

I believe you," said Eeilly, sarcastically.
You're a good judge of the sex. Now,
tell me what you think of Miss Walker ? "

*' Think? I shouldn't trouble myself to
think about such a foolish old lady."

O'Buncous looked crestfallen ; but in a
moment he spoke again with energy. " You
couldn't possibly appreciate her, Eeilly —
she's a wit. She's none of your bread-and-butter
schoolgirls ; in fact, she hasn't
a girl's beauty at all. But there is meaning
in her eyes ; no sentimentality, but a
good, strong, sensible understanding. She

tells me she enjoys an income > "

I'm glad she enjoys it. Some people
can't, you know."

"I always could," observed O'Buncous,
regretfully — '^ I always could — when I had
it. Bless you, I ran through twenty thousand
in no time. 1 lived like a prince while
I was at it ; that's something to say. I've

been hard up since, occasionally — I may say
invariably. But I never regretted having:
had my fling."

"A permanent income must be a great
boon to a man," said Eeilly, reflectively,
watching the curling wreaths of smoke from
his cigar, and seeing; therein strange visions.

'^ Yes ; an income that one couldn't spend,
for instance — that you, therefore, feel sure
of My generosity is such that I assure
you I can't limit it — I can't regulate it."

I believe that," said Eeilly.

Fve come to a turning-point in my fate —
a sort of ordeal, if I might term it so. Need
I tell you that woman has influenced me
from my cradle upwards ? I have loved
many times to adoration ; but never, I
think, with such force, such fervour, as I
have felt over the last and loveliest of her
sex — who shall be nameless. I can never
be touched again. I feel it. I am proud
of it."

Indeed, it does you honour," said Eeilly.

And knowing it, I am resolved to sacrifice
myself on the altar of prudence,"
continued O'Buncous. " There is one thing
bothering me — I've heard that a woman
with a sharp nose is somewhat of a shrew.
With your knowledge of such matters, perhaps
you could aid me."

I think decidedly such a woman might
be likely to get the upper hand."

I'm sorry to hear that. However, a
little moral courage is all that would be
needed."

"Don't be too sure. Candidly, I must
tell you, you are quite behind your time
in your conception of women. You regard
them as our grandfathers used to — I won't
go as far as to say all our grandfathers —
or as, let us say, the wise King Solomon
did. eye have made great discoveries lately.
You may have heard of the 'theory of
evolution' and the 'survival of the fittest?'
Well, under these new laws, the old are
fast fading out. The mere predominance

of woman proves her superiority — we need
go no further."

O'Buncous looked confounded. " Good
Lord, Reilly ! " he exclaimed. " Do you
mean to tell me you believe that ? Why,
according to that, we shall all become
women ! "

Not ourselves. But our male descendants
stand a food chance of beings altogether
swept out of creation. The few
of the male sex who may survive after a
century or so "

Well, then, all I've got to say is — thank
God, I've got no descendants ! I can't understand
it. For years immemorial we've been
going on in the old-fashioned way. Nobody
ever thought of alterius the laws of sex :
and here a fellow comes and invents a new
science, and the whole state of nature is,
one may say, changed ! "

And so is the subject," thought Reilly,
looking at the major's distracted countenance,
as he faced this perfectly new idea.

And Reilly had the satisfaction of curling
his smoke-wreaths in peace and dreaming
his own dreams. He had been in Mary's
company for half an hour — not alone,
certainly — but all that time she had kept
those singularly calm, will-trained eyes of
hers very much out of the way. Had she
looked at him at all ? he wondered ; or had
she only known him by his voice ? Was
it possible he had had those long friendly
argumentative discussions with her ? Only
a few soft words had been granted him this
morning. She was the fair placid beauty
of his dreams. But surely the Hashes of
strange expressive light from those eyes had
been all a dream too.

CHAPTEE Viii.

"l SEE YOU ALWAYS."

Eeilly, I must go to London to-night,
and I want to catch the 6.36. Do duty
for me at dinner, and keep your eye on
Yin, there's a good fellow. I shall be
home tomorrow. I only want the morning. '^

Then we must again postpone our half-hour's
talk. I did think to have had it
out to-night. You've no idea what you
are losing. Well, I'll look after Seymour."

Bathurst had said, " Don't trouble about
it," when Mrs. Elmore told him of her
difficulty. But although he had said so,
he started on his journey with more thana
doubt upon his mind.

The state of affairs was very unsatisfactory

; for had not she told him that she
had never drawn the amount set aside for
her general expenditure ? It seemed indefensible
that she should be refused the small
sum of two hundred pounds. Blank and
Dash, standing high in public estimation,
could scarcely be in want of such a sum
as this.

Reilly had promised to keep an eye upon
Seymour, but this he found rather difficult,
for Vivian was nowhere to be found. He
was testing the strength of this young man's
character ; and besides, he had much strong
feeling in the matter, more than any one
knew. Again, it was not to his taste to
be thrown entirely on O'Buncous for society.
He was far too interested in himself just
then.

He has taken the natural means to
relieve his mind of the shock — he goes to
the woods and fields. How natural it is
that man should find such ease and holy
benediction from nature ! "

Vivian did not return to dinner, and
Reilly regretted the circumstance. He
managed to see him that night, however, fora
few minutes ; but only a few commonplace
remarks had been passed.

And Vivian was not at breakfast the
following morning. Eeilly did not take his
until he had made inquiries. He found
that Seymour had taken coffee, and had
o-one out early. He had left a message to
the effect that it was not probable he should
return until late.

Then Reilly inquired further. He did
not ride ; he wore a boating dress.

This was something for the doctor to go
upon. He, too, would put on a boating
dress.

If Mr. Seymour comes in, tell him I
am on the river — that I have been looking
for him."

To go up the river, it was necessary to
pass by that portion of the Glade gardens
where the ladies habitually took their walks.

Of course, a man might row under the
willows on the other side, or glide swiftly
up the middle of the stream. If he were
a stranger, and saw ladies Walking on the
bank, he would do so ; if he were a friend,
he might come as close as he pleased, and
push in the boat where he would ; if he saw
a fine, tall figure, with a long cloak and fur
trimmings, such as he had seen the other
day, he might — there was a possibility of it
• — be welcomed. In all probability Seymour
had some such design, and Reilly resolved to
be on the coast.

But Vivian had no such thought. He
sought solitude as the only relief for his
soul's unrest. He had borne the disclosure
with a defiant calm, but it had been
terrible to him. He had felt actually incapable
of the strain of meeting Kate just
then, and that was why he had refused to
go to the Glade the day before.

He to meet her on terms of friendship, to
be civil and prosaic and let the fire die out !

Oil, it could never die out ! He felt he
would give the world to see her ; but he
dared not.

Could he renew the suggestions he had
made to her only two days ago ? Had he
not whispered in the presence of her mother
and sisters, " Kate, give me leave to speak ? "
Why, now he could not even speak to her!
If he met her — which Heaven forbid ! — he
would have to run away ; he could not meet
those eyes.

Her eyes ! How they had flashed at him
in her anger ! and, Heaven ! into what
softness had they melted in her love ! To
think that those eyes would never beam
on him again ; to think that that voice,

with all its delicious sweetness, would

never

Never ! \Yhy, he would never lose the
ring of her lauo^h while he lived — never lose
a note he had heard her sing. Could he
not close his eyes and dream on in phantasy
that he was lying again on the couch by the

window, listening to the songs that were
soothing his pain — the window where the
jasmine odour came in and insensibly associated
itself with her, and where she had
sought him in pure sympathy, with the
timid question, " Are you better ? " The
branch of the flower she had given him then,
was it not a treasure now — a memory of
that sweet past he knew was gone for ever ?.

Yes. It was all a dream now. Dreams
were pleasant than reality. Dreams would
always be pleasant than life. Reality was
a mistake ; only illusion could give the
heart's desire.

He had closed his eyes, and the boat w-as
floating with the stream. He had gone outwith
the intention of working hard. Work
was the only thing possible to him. Against
the strong current he must go, as he strove
against the current of his being;. With this
vigour he had begun, and here was the end.

He was roused from his reverie by the
grating of the keel upon the shore. He

sprang up, half-dazed, and discovered instantly
what had happened. The current
had been much stronger than he anticipated,
and, instead of drifting quietly for a few
minutes, he found himself some distance
beyond the starting-point.

Fate had landed him at the Glade, but
fate should not decide for him. He could
push off the boat, and place himself out of
the power of circumstances.

But the boat had driven in with some
violence. He found some difficulty ; but
was he not resolved ? He had not meant
to come here ; he dared not stay here. No,
not even though

Are you in difficulties ? "

Of course, it was her voice. It seemed
natural it should be no other.

He looked up. Standing on the rising
ground, twenty yards away, stood Kate.
His impulse, his desire, was flight. But
this could not be. A moment that was
scarcely reflection, scarcely reaction, and

then he sprang lightly from the boat, joyfully,
and hastened towards her.

Fm glad to see you out. I half believed
you were ill."

She spoke in that rapid way that told
him she was labouring under strong excitement.
Even while she spoke, he recognized
his own weakness and hers.

'she thought I was coming to her." His
heart throbbed wildly with joy. '' I — I
have not been ill," he stammered.

That is better news," said she. "Are you
coming in ? "

No. I — that is — I had no such intention."


Kate began to find he was not himself.
Her momentary perception told her that
something was wrong, and she naturally
supposed she had angered him by her insistence
on silence. She could not, to gain
his favour, do other than she had done, and
yet how longingly her heart cried out for
one word like those mad proposals she had

been at such jDains to refute ! She acknowledged
the contradictory tone of her own
mind.

Did you not see me ? " she said.

See you ? Yes ; I see you always. I
saw you all the way I came."

That was all. It was enough for her.
The tender look that met him repaid him
amply for the inadvertence. She felt brave
now. She could speak, but she would not,
unless compelled to do so. Perhaps he,
upon consideration and due reflection, had
come to see with her, that the course he
would pursue was hopeless as well as
wrong.

You had better go back to your boat,"
she said. "It is too cold to stand here in
that bit of flannel."

Do you wish me to go ? "
I don't toish it — I think it best."
"That seems to be the rule for all our
actions in this confusing world."

"Oh, nothing matters!" said Kate, impetuously,

" if we do what we know is
right ! "

** That is so easily said. If life were to
end with one struggle, well and good. A
struggle should end in a climax, but to end
in bare nothingness "

'' Nothingness is better than aggravated
pain."

*have you thought on me since we last
met ? "

She did not answer ; she gave him a
sudden glance and turned away.

Have I been always foremost in your
mind ? " he asked, impetuously.

Why — why," she cried, half in anger,
*' do you wish me to say what you ought
not to wish to hear ? "

Because you are haunting me," he said,
passionately. " Because I can do nothing
else but think of you. Because I cannot
talk to any living creature but you.
Because, Kate, so great is your influence
over me, I am afraid of you ^

Sap of yourself," she said, in trembling-tones
: " don't sav of me ! "

No, Kate ; no. I will not say of you ;
for never did a sweet woman use her powerless.
No man ever had so hard a task as
mine ! Obstacles to those who would win
anything in life's race are only stimulants."

But we have nothing to win," said
Kate, mournfully. " You have all to lose
through me. I am sorry that we ever met.
There is but one comes — that fate has taken
out of our hands. We are going away from
here ; did you know it ? "

'* Yes. It would be nothings to me if that
were all."

It is the best thing possible."

How do you intend to bear it ? "

I shall fight until I die in a rio-ht cause.
That which would make me happiest would
be to know that you — you had forgotten me."

The warm impulse in her words, the
tearful eyes, the pathetic break in her luw
voice, were all too much for him.

VOL. III. 47

That is an impossibility." The words
were uttered slowly and deliberately. "Don't
ask me to forget the memory that will be
my only joy. My trial has come too early ;

it has used up all my strength. It is useless
to think of getting over it. God ! how
can 1 stand aside and let you drift past ? "

He took her hand. Cold as a statue she
stood ; then, with a sudden ud expected
movement, removed the fingers that felt
like icicles in his warm palm, and flew.

She went almost like a shadow from his
sight, and not once did she turn her eyes
towards the spot where he stood.

CHAPTER IX.

*'i don't understand your moves."

Bathurst did not arrive at Netlierby until
late that night. He had lost the express,
he said, and declared to Reilly, who awaited
him, that he was dead tired, having been
knocking about all day. Then, with just
an allusion to Seymour, they parted.

Before any one thought of moving from
the table next morning Bathurst managed
to excuse himself, and took the earliest
opportunity of quitting the house. He had
reasons of his own for seeing Mrs. Elmore
that morning, and he did not want any one
to know that he was going to the Glade.

He asked for Mrs. Elmore, and saw her
alone.

*' T came over early," he said, "just to
put you at your ease. I have only to leave
this with you ; I did not care to trust it
to other hands. You will find the money
all right. Now, you will be spared any
further delay."

There was a degree of embarrassment
rarely to be seen in him. She attributed
it entirely to his feeling for Adelaide. He
was all that a man should be ; he could act
for her interests, and hers only.

How good you are ! You humiliate
me. I can never thank you."

'' Command me in any way," he said.
Give me an idea of the route you think
of taking. You may as well see what is
worth seeing as not."

Oh, I have no heart in the journey !
it is only a resource. But tell me — about
the money ? Did they give no explanation
'? "

The colonel pulled his moustache and
hesitated. '^ Hem ! " he said. " It's hardly

worth while to sro into all that now. Would
you permit me to draw up a really interesting
route for you ? "

"First, tell me, did you see Mr. "

I don't really know whom I saw. I
was indignant, and naturally gained my
end quickly. Now, good-bye, Mrs. Elmore ;
good-bye. I really can't stay."

With tearful eyes she watched him go
away.

"He's a perfect angel, that man," she
said. " It goes to my heart to see how
he is affected. God help me in the right !
I must be right in taking them away."

She went into the morning-room, and
came upon blunt Flora in a brilliant 
and curl-papers.

Upon my word, Kate ! " she began,
"your conduct is most mysterious. What
has this gentleman to do with you that
you should everlastingly be having private
interviews with him ? I should like to
know what the world would say of me

if I did such tidings ! But any one may
canvass my actions ; everything is open and
above board with me."

For your satisfaction, Flora, I will
explain that Colonel Bathurst has been
transacting a little business for me. I told
sou of my design to go abroad. Well, a
little difficulty occurred about my money,
and while he was in town he saw to that
for me ; indeed, he brought the money with
him. There is nothing to hinder us now,
and — in fact, we have only to start as soon
as possible."

Aunt Flora looked blank.

It's a most outrageous thing," she said,
petulantly, " to travel this time of the year.
I don't understand your moves at all — I
never shall. I wish I had known what
you were going to do ! "

*' I did not mislead you, Flora."

Oh dear no ! You did not know I was
coming. But this sudden change is very
awkward — for many reasons. I would

accompany you, but there are ties — that
I cannot overlook. I suppose I shall be
compelled to go to a boarding-house."

*' I think that an ill-advised mode of
life' commenced Mrs. Elmore.

'^ Since I have been my o^n mistress,
I have made up my own mind to see
society."

You will have to be very particular in
the selection of a boarding-houses' said Mrs.
Elmore, with a dreary smile.

"Well, now, I must write to Blank and
Dash, for I shall want money'

For the first time for many days the
notes of the piano were heard. Kate was
forcing herself to attempt a natural occupation.
She played beautiful, melancholy
chords. Now and then she turned over
a page of music and played persistently
from the notes, but invariably she wandered
ofi" again into aimless harmonizing.

'' Why don't you sing, Kate ? " said Mary,
who had looked into the room in passing.

There was no reply. Then jNlary closed
the door and came over to her sister's side.

Don't let yourself run down, dear.
Every one will notice it. If mamma were
not so much engrossed as she is at present,
it would pain her greatly. It does pain
me."

'* I know," said Kate, quietly. Then she
ceased playing. "Oh, I can't sing ! I
should break down, and make a fool of
myself — go into a fit of hysterics, or do
something else ridiculous."

Mary made a movement, as if to bestow
a caress, but she changed her mind.

Let me alone, Mary. I shall bear it
better my own way. It provokes me to
think I cannot control my own mind. It
annoys me that I cannot banish a tormenting
memory. What wretchedly weak
think's women are ! "

The weakest do not think so," said
Mary, with meaning. "Come to the window,
dear. Here is the major — got up to look

younger than ever. I wonder if he thinks
he deceives anybody ? His whiskers are
so flagrantly dyed to-day."

He ? Oh, he could deceive no one ! "

"Yes; one, I think — himself."

What can he mean by his absurd conduct
? "

I do not care," said Mary, shutting her
eyes, and leaning back against the window-frame.
" Oh, Kate, how glad I am we are
going away ! Dear me, how blind Adelaide
is ! Just like mamma. They are so unselfish,
you see, that they don't seem to
notice things that concern themselves. Now
J am totally different — self is ever foremost
with me."

Mary, what nonsense you are talking !
By the way, were you and Doctor Eeilly
talking about me yesterday ? "

Suspicious child ! Well, yes, we were."

What, all the time ? "

The pink flush deepened on Mary's cheeks.

All the time," she reiterated.

lyell, it was the whole time lie was
here," said Kate, innocently, with eyes
that were wanderings far in the distance.
"' Though, perhaps, you don't talk much
when you are together. I've noticed how
silent you are sometimes, and yet you seem
to understand each other."

We do," said Mary, simply.

Well, you do it very easily," said Kate,
with some bitterness.

Mary did not answer.

CHAPTER X.

THE COLONEL FAILS IX ANOTHER SCHEME.

The snow fell heavily. Bathurst stood at
the window with his hands in his pockets,
thoroughly discontented.

If this is going to last," muttered he,
'there'll be an end of their o-oincr this
week."

He was beyond measure anxious that Mrs.
Elmore should go.

He turned and saw Eeilly at his elbow,
who was whistling cheerfully.

I'm afraid you object to what we must
call seasonable weather."

"I do. The place will be a swamp if we
get much more of this."

*' Unless we get a hard frost."

That would be as bad."

Not as bad as a swamp."

'ras bad for my purpose."

It seemed to be with an effort that Eeilly
suppressed his whistle. His eyes had an
excited glitter in them. Since his visit to
the Glade yesterday he had been almost
unable to suppress his animal spirits.

lyell, I've waited most impatiently
since I've been here for a quiet half-hour
with you."

We shall have as many half-hours as
we like after this week is over," said the
colonel, dismally.

I can't wait so long."

Bathurst turned round sharply. ' ' I thought
I understood your time was not limited."

By Jove ! O'Buncous will marry Aunt
Flora ! " exclaimed Eeilly, irrelevantly.

So much the worse for Aunt Flora."

He'll spend every penny she possesses."

I could not rouse myself to interfere —
I have no spirit. Vin is going, after all.
He's in a bad state of mind."

So are we all."

*' Life isn't so easy sometimes," said
Bathurst, reflectively. If I had to take an
army into the field tomorrow, I should
decide on my course almost without hesitation.
But there's no parallel between a
man's life of thought and life of action. I
am never afraid of what I shall ceo."

''No," thought Eeilly. "He never did
a mean things, nor had a mean thought in
his life."

'' Eeilly, that is Mrs. Elmore ! "

Bathurst turned pale as he spoke, and
Eeilly observed the change.

''If I did not know he was madly in

«/

love, I should say he was afraid," thought
Eeilly, watching his countenance.

Confound it all ! " said Bathurst, between
his closed teeth, "I'm caught. Don't
ever attempt an intrigue, Eeilly. I speak asa

friend. It's the devil."

Emily put his hands up to his head. He
knew he was better at intrigue than Bathurst,
but even he could not manage it

easily.

"I shall see her in the library. The
room's warm and — quiet. If I want you,
Eeilly, you'll come ? "

What, in the name of perdition, have
you been doing ? "

I must have been a fool ! " exclaimed
the colonel. " I must have been an idiot
to think that I could do anything under
the rose ! I'd give fifty pounds if you could
take my place for the next five minutes."

He drew a long breath, set his square
shoulders, and went out of the room looking
like a monarch, and feeling like a whipped
cur.

He could not raise his eyes to meet Mrs.
Elmore's ; he murmured some incoherent
greeting, and closed the door.

She threw aside her veil. Her face was
strangely agitated. There were red spots upon
her cheeks, betraying her strong excitement.
Yet her voice was low and tremulous when
she spoke.

I have come to ask you — where that

money came from you gave to me two days

ago.

Oil, hang the money ! " exclaimed Bathurst,
with an anger that did him credit.

I cannot afford to do that, colonel. I
want to know what it all means."

It means simply that the vexed question
of money is not to be compared to — ■
other issues at point."

Do not evade the question," she said,
imploringly. " I must know sooner or later.
Here is a letter Flora has just received ; here
is an utter denial of my solicitors having
advanced any money to me."

If Bathurst could only have used one big
word, he would have experienced some
relief. But, as it was, he stood close to
her, towering in all his strength beside a
form that looked so fragile and so helpless
that he could not utter a word.

"I see how it is — I believe that, to
prevent my disappointment, you have advanced
the money yourself. Colonel Bathurst,

you know I could not dream of
accepting such a favour from any one. You
would have put me under another obligation."
She paused of necessity, and then
hurried on tremulously. " But I cannot
speak of it. There is the money, colonel.
Do not think me ungrateful. Indeed, I
cannot use it''

Is there any more information in Aunt
Flora's letter ? " he asked, huskily.

Nothing; more ? " she asked in alarm.
They have put her off, as they did me.
Oh, speak the truth, colonel ! What is
the worst ? You know more than you
will say. Do speak ! I would rather
hear bad news from your lips than from
any others. You must not keep me in
suspense."

Then Bathurst coughed. He found it
necessary to cough several times. " There
may be something saved from the wreck,
but things are wrongs. I've taken every
precaution. I've put my solicitor on the

track. If anything is to he done, he will
lose no time in informing me."

She sat still, with her hands clenched
spasmodically ; but there was no excitement
now, no tears. Under impulsive feeling
she was all agitation, but the blow she stood
magnificently.

Ah ! " she said, with a deep-drawn
sio'h, "it is not the worst thins: that could
happen. You think there may be something
left ? "

On that ground we may be hopeful, but
we cannot be sure."

I cannot form my plans yet," she
said. " I shall have to —-to consider — to
think -"

Remember my existence, ]airs. Elmore ;
it is all I ask. While I live, 1 am at your
command."

Then the poor woman broke down utterly.
I cannot help coming to you," she sobbed.
'' And — you shall assist me — in my own way.
I will go now." She drew her veil closely

YOL. III. 48

over her face. " I shall be myself when
next we meet."

You are not going out in the snow ? "

I'm going — just as I came. Do not
accompany me, I entreat you. I want to
be alone."

Eeilly saw from the window the dark-robed
figure pass out into the snow-storm.

I think my time is come," he said.

Bathurst entered. " "Well, I got through
it without assistance. I played my game,
and I lost."

Then he told Eeilly just how the affair
stood. *' You see now," he added, " my
anxiety to get them away. I would have
given anything to have got them well off."

Well, I'm very glad you didn't. In
plain truth, Bathurst, I never intended you
should."

It was altogether a confounding speech,
because Eeilly did not appear to take the
matter into serious consideration.

Did I make you clearly understand that

the most they can expect is a miserable
pittance ? I feel as sure — as I shall be next
week that is so."

Bathurst spoke emphatically. Eeilly
nodded his head deliberately.

I don't think the money matters much,
considering the other issues at point."

The very words Bathurst had used to Mrs.
Elmore a few minutes ago ! The colonel
felt like a man in a troubled dream.

I don't think I quite catch your meaning,"
he said.

*'No. It will take some time to make
my meaning quite clear. First, my excuse
I must excuse myself before I begin."

Now, what are you driving at, Eeilly ?
I'm very obtuse just now — not to say preoccupied.
I don't deny my interest in those
ladies," he said, vrith just the ghost of a
smile.

"You'll forgive me, Bathurst, for keeping
my secret for some days ; this strange
turn of events has circumvented me. I

can't allow you any further anxiety. I
have only to say that all the disabilities
are removed ; in joint of fact, they never
existed at all."

Now Bathurst woke up to the fact that
his friend was in earnest, and gazed at him
in amazement.

It is entirely a matter for congratulation,
and I am happy in possessing information
that will satisfy even you. Mrs.
Elmore's husband was the victim of a sunstroke
on the eve of a fight in India. He
never recovered his intellect, and is as innocent
of transmitting' his insanity to his
children as you or I can be."

Do you mean to say, then, your first suggestion
was correct ? Is Mrs. Elmore "

Mrs. Elmore has no idea of the circumstances
of the case. My mother was with
her at the time. She was deeply attached
to her husband. The shock affected her to
such an extent that my mother took Kate
(who was an infant then) away from her.

This is how it came to pass that there were
few explanations. I, fortunately, have newspapers
of the period ; one in particular
containing a notice of the accident. Without
such proof, I fear it might be difficult to
convince Mrs. Elmore of the truth. My
father feels so strongly on the subject that
he is resolved to take a journey — for which
he is scarcely fit — to assure her of the facts.
He was a close friend ; and no one but my
father, who was then doctor of the regiment,
attended Elmore until he was, being quite
disabled, despatched to England. You have
it all now."

I shall love you for ever ! "

Tell that to — somebody else ! But not
yet. Do not spoil the proceedings by injudicious
haste. Remember, there must bea
difficulty. And my proposal is, that we
should take the girls into our confidence,
and when they thoroughly understand and
have got accustomed to the idea, the disclosure
miofht be made to their mother."

Bathurst betrayed signs of strong excitement.


The thing has to be thought over," he
said. *' That poor woman will be worrying
herself every hour about the ways and means
by which they are to live. Thank Heaven,
we can stop all that now ! Could you let
me have those newspapers ? And don't you
think we might put Vin out of his misery ? "

*' If he will submit to restraint."

By Jove ! I'll threaten him with a
strait-jacket if he doesn't swear by our
leading."

CHAPTER XL

MONETARY.

Mrs. Elmore was more than half prepared
for what she had heard. It was a misfortune
of which she did not know the
real extent. She had had ample means
always, and her desires were not extravagant.
To have moderate tastes and
moderate means is to be rich, and she had
no idea what poverty meant. Still, it was
only of her girls she thought ; never of
herself.

Before she arrived home she was somewhat
composed and able to command herself
well. If she could avoid speaking or thinking:
of Bathurst, she felt she could control
herself; but the very thought of his generous,

(lisin teres ted favours, heaped upon her as
they were, brought the tears to her eyes.

Adelaide, come with me."

Adelaide knew something unusual had
occurred. She guessed, too, where her
mother had been. As calmly as possible,
and as briefly, Mrs. Elmore explained the
position. She spoke so unhesitatingly, was
so anxious to set through the ordeal, that
there was no comment until she had finished.
Then Adelaide came over to her.

My darling mother ! " she cried out
lovingly, " I feel that I cannot comfort you.
I can't realize what it all means yet."

They were both silent for a while ; the
mother sadly, sorrowfully still, and Adelaide's
expressive face going through changes that
told of some realization.

Presently she started up and said, in
quick excitement, " There is no cause for
despair. After all, we have only to do
what thousands of others are doing. And
even if there should be no residue, it would

be hard indeed if three young able women
could not maintain you."

You always were brave, Dell' said the
mother, with a proud look, full of heavenly
love stealing over her face. " You always
rise when you are wanted."

'• There ! there ! Look like that, mamma !
rd bless any accident that gave you that
expression always, and none of the pain.
Perhaps it will be better for us, for troubles
are sometimes angels in disguise. Oh ! I
have settled plans abbacy. How rapidly
one can think ! Why, I've had a chain of
ideas already. Well, the foreign tour is
better given up ; at any rate, you have that
money."

N — 0, dear," stammered Mrs. Eimore.
That was a mistake. The money is not
mine*'

What do you mean ? What claim can
they have "

Mrs. Elmore checked her daughter by a
sign. " My dear," she began, feeling painfully

conscious how her voice was trembling,
the real truth is, Colonel Bathurst, resolving
that we should carry out our design,
brought the money himself."

She was aware she had told of this
generous act in very bold language, but
at any rate it was quite clear she had said
enough. The colour mounted in Adelaide's
face, and her eyes literally sparkled with
enthusiasm.

I feel almost as though I should have
taken it. Really, mamma, it would have
pleased him better if you had."

"Really, Dell "

I should ! I should ! You will only
make him miserable if you let him think he
has taken an unwarrantable liberty. Oh,
keep it as a loan, to gratify him ! Do not
use a penny of it, and return it when we are
settled in some way."

Oh, my child ! " cried her mother, " you
fit to face the world ! You are a mere

babv.'*

"Not such a baby, mother, but that I
know what a rare things a man like that
must be ! I know you could afford to treat
him in a wav you could treat no one else.
He could not take an advantage. He has
the broad hio'h mind, the nobleness that
is so rare. Tell me truly, mamma, did you
ever know a better man ? "

His qualities stand without doubt, my
dear. But we must stand alone — remember
that. Think no more of him. I have a
difficult task now. There is every reason
to believe that Flora's money has been
sunk in this affair. What she will do,
Heaven knows ! T shall not tell her at
once. She is too excitable. And, poor
soul ! she is so elated at being her own
mistress."

Adelaide's eyes were following out visions
of her own in the distance, in which Aunt
Flora had no place. " Kate," she said aloud,
will do us all credit. What a boon work
will be to her ! "

Ah — if it were not for her beauty ! "
sighed lier mother.

Don't let that distress you. We'll paint;
we'll disguise ourselves ; we'll look anything
that is horrible to please you. Darling, it
is all your fancy. We shall be as safe as
though we were the Gorgon themselves.
Let me perfect my designs. I'll be the head
of this family for the future. Keep up your
sweet looks, and you will satisfy me."

Truly this girl of hers was a child to be
proud of. " If I could only give her to the
colonel," she thought ; " if it were only possible
I could repay all his kindness by the
one gift ! "

*****

To Mrs. Elmore's amazement, Aunt Flora
showed no excitement whatever.

"I'm very sorry for you, my dear," she
said, complacently — " very. But you'll
shuffle down all right after a bit. There'll
be enough left to keep a comfortable cottage
in the country. And what you want of a

house like this, and keeping no company,
too, I can't imagine."

I hope, Flora — I'm sure I hope your
money is safe''

*•' Well, I should myself have felt anxious
a day or two ago," she said, with a good
deal of conscious agitation, " but the fact
is, it's — not of much consequence just now,
because I'm engaged to Major O'Buucous."

** Dear me. Flora ! are you mad ? "

'* Dear me ! " exclaimed Flora, ^' I should
think it is you who are mad ! Pray, what
is there against such an eno;ao;ement ? "

Do not be angry. I am sure he is not
what one would term a trustworthy man.
1 consider him even childish. I cannot
understand a woman giving herself up to
such a vain thing. Flora, I must speak ;
you will regret it to the dav of your
death "

Here you exceed the bounds of the
rights of your relationship," interposed
Flora, with much indignation. " I know

a great deal more of the world than you
do, and I am perfectly satisfied with my
choice ; that is all I have to say. I can
quite understand and feel for your own
unnatural position, but you have brought
it entirely on yourself. But for your own
whimsical mode of life, no one need ever
have known there was anything wrong."

Flora ! how dare you speak to me like
that ! Do you think I do not know that
thousands would have acted differently —
that thousands are acting differently everyday
? I permit no one to question my
conscience — my sense of right. In short,
it may be as well understood, I refuse to
countenance your engagement to the major;"
and, with a dignified air, Mrs. Elmore left
the room.

CHAPTER XII.

WHAT IS AX Honourable Course ?

'* Well, Bathurst, I've done my duty, and
now I shall be oflP. I came in, like a good
fairy, in the nick of time, and caused a
transformation scene. I know you are very
grateful and all that, but" — and Reilly
paused, and laughed a little awkwardly —
'^ it isn't so pleasant at a feast to sit and
pass everything, especially when you're
hungry. So I'm going."

'* Come, you've had your way long
enough I You have used me as a mere
instrument, it seems." Bathurst spoke jestingly,
but he rose up all the same, and
made a move, a sure sign his interest was
roused. " You've had it all your owen way ;

you've played with me as a cat might with
a mouse ; and now Tm going to have a
word. You're not going yet."

'' I'll stay for the wedding, if that's all.
It's orthodox I should give a pass with a
wand over the kneeling pair."

That isn't all. I surmised, and I had
a right to surmise from certain things you
said, that your interest was similarly
concerned. You are a cool hand, I know ;
but a man generally betrays himself. When
you had no chance, you admitted "

That which I'm not going to deny
now," said Reilly, sturdily. "The position
is simple enough. When I had no chance,
or thought I had no earthly chance, of
marrying Mary Elmore, it did not occur
to me that I had no means, because, you
see, I hadn't to consider that ; and now
that a chance is open to me — for it is no
vanity to assume that one may have a
chance, even with the best woman in the
world — why, then, the first thing that

presents itself to me is, that I can't have
a wife, and naturally it follows that I avoid
the woman."

Now, that wouldn't come natural to
some people."

'' I suppose not," said Reilly, dejectedly.
'* I should be sorry to bind a girl to an
engagement, and place her in the anomalous
position of waiting half a lifetime till I
could offer her a suitable home."

Xow, Reilly, if you were arguing anyone
else's case, you would play another
tune."

'eat any rate, I've chosen the most
honourable course."

What is an honourable course ? " asked
Bathurst, almost angrily. " Tell me, now,
is a man to assume, when he proposes to
a woman, that the idea of his loving her,
the idea of her being his wife, is perfectly
new to her ? You don't answer. Is it so ?
Because I would rather be the defendant
in any number of breach of promise cases

YOL. III. 4i9

than marry a woman who would take me
because I had proposed to her."

Then the colonel paused in his heat, and
stood before Reilly as though demanding
an answer.

"Push anything to an extreme and you
find error," said Reilly, sententiously.

Well, then, we won't take an extreme.
We'll say that, by the laws of natural selection,
a woman and a man are mutually
attracted. He must in honour give her up
according to your theory — because, suitable
as they otherwise are, according to the
laws of civilization she is bound to have as
many unnecessary falls as she has — well,
not possessed before, but has had the right
to use."

I don't, for my own sake, regard means
much," said Reilly. " But there are limits.
A man should be deterred from asking a girl
to share his fireside if he hasn't a chair to
offer her."

Ah ! that would be bad ! How about
your knee ? "

That must be a matter of choice — not
necessity' said Reilly. '^ Seriously, I have
nothing but my pay and some small expectations
at — I hope — at a very distant
day."

Do you mean to remain in the army ? "

"As a bachelor it's about the best thins:
I can do. I can't afford to throw up my
living, and I can't afford to buy a practice.
I may be able to do that — when I'm too old
to marry. People don't object to an old
doctor being unmarried. Your interest is
most kind, Bathurst, and I take your meaning
perfectly. I object to the bondage of
long probation for hei' sake. And you see,
in my case, the lady has not the vaguest
idea of my preference, nor has she, to use
your phrase, been similarly attracted "

Pray, how do you know ? "

I think I'm about the only man who
would."

How ? How, in the name of all that's
reasonable, can you tell that a clever woman

is not attracted by you ? A foolish woman
might betray herself, but a clever woman,
who is aware of her love, might deceive any
man. Instigated by pride — not prudery,
but honest pride — she might feign an indifference
she could not feel. She might
have a half-defined knowledge that he held
05*, which would "

Oh ! that's subtle, colonel."

Indeed ? I'm a man of no subtlety, as
you know ; but I've just been taking lessons
in the school you are afraid to enter. A
curious accident disclosed to me what never
would have been discovered by my own
j u dgm en t

Or modesty," interpolated Eeilly.

** Oh, I've no modesty to boast of ! But
I did judge. You are past all chances — you
are sure of success, Eeilly."

Perhaps. Like you, I have little
modesty to boast of I do think it possible
1 might win her."

Well, having got so far, do you think

she would be better pleased by your deserting
her at the very raiment when her heart
would be open to receive yours ? Hang it
all, Reilly ! you'll spoil all my happiness ;
you'll hang a thunder cloud over us. You
had better have left things alone, if you
can't do better than this."

"You say that because they can't be reversed.
I shan't be a thunder-cloud. And
she is the most wonderful essence of calm
self-control I ever saw. She has too much
sense to grieve over the inevitable ; she has
shown it all her life."

But she has never been in love until
now."

Come, come, Bathurst : that's oroinor too
far. It isn't fair to say that."

Then we won't say it ; but it's a thing
you ought to find out. I'll tell you what
111 do, now — ril find it out for you."

Don't jest. I'm not up to that. You are
the only man in the world I should permit
to speak to me on such a point."

You are the only man in the world I
could permit to take a liberty with me.
You have taken so many lately, at your
own discretion, that I'm not surprised at
any impertinence from you. Success in
your profession is as sure as your success in
love. Have you ever put it to yourself?
To me you seem to have everything that
can command success."

Indeed, I think I have," said Reilly,
(quietly. " But since I haven't the principal
thing — don't talk any more about it,
Bathurst — I've given it up."

Have you ? I haven't, I tell you. I'm
always ready for a good investment "

Reilly raised his hand in deprecation.

There's not a shadow of risk. I wouldn't
urge you if there were. And, Reilly — dont
speak now ; don't interrupt me till I've
finished — do you estimate my gain — gain
for myself and others I hold dear to me,
that has been entirely brought about by you ?
Now, how about a paltry investment ? What

is money, do you think ? Is it anything buta
sign — a symbol "

If you expect to ask questions of this
nature, and not be answered "

Hold your tongue, sir ! Money, I repeat,
is a vulgar sign — nothing more. What's
the amount you expect the old folks to leave
behind 1 I'll advance it. Fail as you may,
you'll be sure to be able to return that. I
hope I shan't be alive to receive it, that's all.
Now, how about an investment ? You have,
accidentally if you like, been able to help me.
I am, accidentally, equally able to help you.
I accept your gift most gratefully — without
a murmur. You decline mine. Don't let
us descend to vanity when we possess the
master-passion — pride."

Do not tempt me."

I can't if she can't."

"Things haven't gone so far in our case."

Prove it. Ask her. See how you
stand. If she won't, she won't, and there's
an end on't ; and if she will, you will, or

you're not the man I take you to be. And
I'd rather not be disappointed in you after
the way you have treated me."

Eeilly commenced to speak. '' If "

Now, for Heaven's sake, do let us cease
the argument ! " exclaimed Bathurst, laughing
good-humouredly. " Everything has
been said that can be said."

"That's on your side," put in Reilly,
grimly.

Oh, own you're beaten ! It's time I
had a rise somehow ; I do deserve a little
satisfaction. Go on, there's a good fellow —
get it over. Unpleasant duties ought always
to be got through at once, that's what I say.
I tell you candidly, Reilly, if you don't go
and get that over at once, I'll do it myself ! "

CILVPTER XIII.

CHAOS.

Two more days were allowed to elapse before
either of the men ventured to the Glade.
Then, by arrangement, Reilly went alone.

Mrs. Elmore came to him immediately,
although, as she explained, she was very
busy.

'' In fact," she said, *' I do not feel at all
happy now, unless I am busy. You have
heard of the reverse that has happened tous
«

He admitted that he had.

It is not a pleasant subject to talk
about," she said, '' but, really, I have
hardly begun to regard the matter as a
trial. You see, the girls have accepted the

position with so much coolness, and I am
so impressed, so influenced by their condition,
that I don't seem able to disassociate
my own from their personal feeling. My
first consideration is to take them away —
where, I do not care. It seems to me that
here the danger lies."

Mrs. Elmore, you give an alarming example
of that prescience that can read the
future, yet not the whole. Do you class
that as rank superstition, or do you believe
in the power of the mind to receive impressions
outside our own consciousness
and outside our own reason ? "

Oh yes ! " she said. '' But I should
not have thought you capable of that."

Anything but the plainest prosaic sense
is universally denied to men, I believe. I
don't think many people estimate influence
as the strong force it is. When we think
of the impression one person may make
upon another, by no extraordinary means,
but merely from the effect of personality.

it is only astonishing we can arrive at the
motives for our action at all."

Now, this was a little too deep for Mrs.
Elmore.

That is the way he talks to Mary," she
thought. Then went on aloud, " Xo doubt
you are right. I quite appreciate Colonel
Bathurst's consideration in not calling:.
Pray tell him we are not in a state of
utter despair ; we are really more endurable
than usual."

Your courage is beyond me," he said.
'•' May I see the young ladies ? "

Kate and Mary are in the drawing-room,"
she said. " You Twill excuse Dell
and me, because we are turning out."

Then he went to the drawing-room, and,
after a few minutes' conversation, Kate, with
wistful eyes that spoke so plainly of Vivian
every time she looked at him, went away.

Upon this Mary and he were silent. She
had been bright and cheerful enough, even
to please him ; but now she sat working

busily and composedly, the very impersonation
of mental strength and physical power
to his eye. She thoroughly fascinated him ;
the steady, even movements of her hands
charmed him. He could have sat in silence,
and have been quite happy watching them.

You think, then, that Kate has every
chance of success ? I cannot but be envious
of her talent, for it gives her a settled, well-determined
object."

'' It does, indeed."

*' Although publicity is out of the question,
the fact of her ability will be enough to secure
her future."

You do not appear to think much about
yourself. "

"Oh yes, I do ! " she said, coolly. Her
eyes were still cast down on her work ;
her fingers moved quite as easily and
rapidly.

Have you thought of anything ? "

Yes ; many things. I'm so glad you
take an interest in me, because, unfortunately,

it is looked upon as a settled thing
that I am to remain vdth. my mother, and
take no part in assisting the family banking
account. Imagine me sitting down quietly,
letting Kate work at the dreary routine of
teaching, and Adelaide labour at the heavy
work she would have at Grimslade to support
me ! "

Work at Grimslade ! " he said.

Didn't you know ? Yes, Mrs. Furnival
has offered her a secretaryship. She will
be very well said, but she vnll have to do
some extraordinary things. The life vnll
be entirely new to her ; still I think more
suitable than living amono^ the Grimslade
poverty. As for me, sith absolutely no
knowledge, even of the requirements of the
age we live in, it appears as though there
is no corner of this wide earth ready to
receive me. I understand absolutely nothing
of business, of accomplishments, of children,
of anything that one may particularize. Yet
I can draw well. Can I make a penny by

it ? I understand German well, but I cannot
speak it. I have a fair knowledge of mathematics,
some very desultory ideas of general
science, and that's all. Poor Hannah, who
has lived with us so long, is inconsolable.
She was good enough to say that I should
do very well to walk about and show off
dresses, that ladies might see how they would
look in them. Considering she never saw
me in what is termed ' dress,' I don't know
how she can judge. For myself, I had
visions of a confectioner's shop. I thought
the only thing I might offer to do with
conscientiousness might be to sell penny
tarts." She wasn't even smiling at the suggestion,
although Reilly was. " If I could
do nothing better," she said, " I should not
hesitate. I am far above paltry considerations,
so long as one does honestly what
one can do."

Tell me," he said, suddenly — " you
have no idea how interested I am, scientifically,
in your character — do you really

regard your life — the actual end of your
being — with the cool resignation you appear
to possess ? Can a woman of your intellect
positively accept a life of unsatisfactory
routine without reoTet ? "

Then there flashed upon him one of those
strange startling glances — one of those unfathomable
hints of the depths beneath — and
made him pause.

Could you wonder when a being, crippled
out of resemblance to humanity, is resigned
to stand out of the strife — out of the struggle
it must fail in ? "

She paused for a reply. None came.

I," she continued, impressively — '"' I am
so crippled — here'

She put that hand he so admired upon
the pure, broad heaven of her forehead,
while she regarded him steadily with eyes
that, in their perfect solemnity, looked as
if the momentary light, which almost took
his senses away, were impossible to them.

Reilly's mind received an uncomfortable

shock, a mental pain for which he was quite
unprepared. He knew the susceptibility
of the human mind to direct influences ;
to such, the mind of this singular, self-controlled
girl had been subjected. He had
the firmest belief in training, and he had
a terrible doubt whether such a conception
as this one she had gained could ever be
destroyed. In a common mind, he argued,
it would be impossible to gain such a result
but in hers

Since it must be done, who might better
do it than himself ? A moment's hesitation,
and he decided.

Could you bear to feel that all your
past impressions had been false ? Could
you bear to feel, do you think, that everything
you have been accustomed to regard
with reverential awe had to be reversed —
the whole system under which you had been
trained "

"You are representing chaos," she said,
with a smile, "and you look much perturbed

aloout it. Don't mind me ; I can
imagine horrors to any extent. It is that
which makes me differ from certain views
that are held by some thinkers. One would
almost think from them that imagination
was commission. There is a mind that can
readily imagine horrors and suggest terrible
action, but which would be simply incapable
of performing the most innocent of its
own suggestions ; and there is another mind
which is beyond suggestion entirely — beyond
any realization of evil — that from hatred or
malice would be roused to commit the vilest
deeds. I think, now, it is to be doubted
whether a highly imaginative mind could
commit such a crime as murder ; indeed, any
great crime — the sympathy is too high."

She was carrying out her idea meditatively,
when he replied by a question, " You
can conjure up horrible ideas — can you do
so at wil ? "

She shuddered. " I never try. My
object is to avoid them."

VOL. III. 50

"Now, would you mind telling me their
nature ? "

Don't ask that ! " she said. " Imagine
what is the most horrible thing in all created
nature, and you have an idea of the horror
that, in spite of all my efforts, will sometimes
pursue me for weeks."

I know what it is," he said, deliberately.

She opened her eyes in surprise. " Ah !
I forget — you would guess. There can be
nothing else so terrible. Have you ever
seen a mad person ? I feel as though I
would not for many worlds."

I have seen people who have been
demented in many ways. I assure you it
is not uncommon to meet people in the
world, who are sometimes even holding
responsible positions, who are certainly not
quite sane. There are so many degrees
of mental power that it is frequently a
difficult matter to prove that a man is
insane. And accidental conditions give rise
to aberrations of intellect that are indescribable.

We are all of us open to such conditions.
I knew a man who was imbecile
for life after a kick from a horse. It was
no question of defective mental power at
all ; it was simply the result of injury."

"But there is nothing so very terrible
in that. When we know the causes, the
terrors are almost wholly taken away."

Then," said he, '^ I am going to tell
you that which will first appear strange 3.nd
inconceivable. Although the matter has
never been mentioned between us, you may
guess that I have been quite aware of the
conditions under which you have been
reared. Would it be a great shock to you
if I were to say that your mother has for
many years been under an error that has
been a burden to her life, and has given
her inexpressible pain ? "

Mary shook her head sadly. " Oh, Doctor
Eeilly ! whatever you may have learnt
cannot undo the fact."

I beg your pardon," he said. " I have

deliberately chosen to break this matter to
you, because I did not feel as though it
were possible to approach your mother.
Indeed, I fear it will require all our united
strength to dispossess her of a conviction
that has taken years to fix itself. Try
and put yourself outside the past, if you
can, and I will tell you briefly the real
facts. I had them from my father. He
was on the field, engaged professionally,
when Captain Elmore was brought to him.
They were friends ; they understood each
other well, and there could be no chance
of misunderstanding, or of hasty judgment.
There was too much interest for that. At
first, my father was under the impression
that his patient was suffering from concussion
of the brain. That is not uncommon
from a fall from a horse. In the confusion
and hurry, he could not discriminate. But
it was afterwards discovered, without the
shadow of a doubt, that there had been
no such fall, and that he was not even

wounded ; he was merely suffering from
the effects of sunstroke. Now, in some
cases, such effects may almost entirely disappear
; in others, they recur at intervals.
At other times, the injury of the brain is
so great that it never regains its normal
condition, but gradually loses power, and
the man becomes hopelessly insane. This
was the case with your father.

He, unfortunately, lingered for years, although
it is not to be supposed his personal
suffering was great. When he was brought
home, your mother was unaware even of his
illness. His name, by a not unaccountable
omission, had not appeared in the list of
wounded. I am sure you can understand
how so sensitive a woman as she is would
accept her terrible position without making,
what appeared to her, vain efforts to discover
details that would only increase her
pain. We can easily understand that at
first she hoped for his ultimate recovery ;
but as time went on, and it became necessary

that be should be removed from ber
care, she bad gained the clear conviction
that it was natural predisposition which bad
caused bis infirmity, and only the strain
of strong excitement bad brought it out.
As a rule, emotional women do not inquire
deeply into the meanings of things ; they
receive impressions, and they accept results.
she never knew any one of the facts I
have told you, and I am sure you will
see bow important it is we should be
careful in dealing with such a subject as
herself."

Eeilly bad talked steadily on, without
giving a moment's pause. He would not
have stopped now, but that be saw ber drop
her bead into ber bands.

Stop, stop ! " she cried. *' I am contemplating
chaos."

The voice was delightfully natural, the
same low, rich notes be loved to hear.
Then she raised ber face, and ber eyes were
literally beaming.

I am thinking of Kate," she said.
*' Dear Kate ! "

Then you are in that secret ? " he said.

Yes," she said, ingenuously. " I knew
it before she did. But no one else knows.
Dear me ! I think I am representing chaos.
Who told you ? "

'' / knew it before they did," he replied.

We both know too much," she said.

I think we know a pretty fair amount
together."

Dear Kate ! " she said again, with rapturous
eyes.

'•' Do you think she is going to be the
only gainer ? "

I do not know — I am not out of chaos
yet. I would be mercifully let alone.
Still, I should like your opinion on one
things. How do you think — were you satisfied
with the way I bore it ? I never saw
you look so dreadful ! "

'' I never felt worse in my life ! You ?
I will give you credit for anything "

But I really don't realize it ; " she said,

seriously. " However, your difficulty is

over."

I'm not so sure about that."

What ! Is there anything else ? "

Oh, a great deal more ! "

Then why don't you go on ? "

She dropped her hands in her lap, and

fixed those great, calm eyes upon him.

You see, I'm quite capable of hearing

and understanding."

You are more capable than I."

What can you have to say ? Is your

concern for my mother ? I have no fear.

We must break the news gradually and

carefully. Surely," she continued, with

some anxiety, " you do not anticipate any

bad results ? If so, we will not tell her.

We will first take the necessary steps fora

change of position "

Then what of Kate ? " asked Reilly,

significantly.

Ah, you confuse me ! I am not out

of chaos yet ; indeed, I suppose I am only
half in. You had better tell the rest."

'' Well, then, it is a roundabout story.
You will be patient with me ? "

He began to find himself in a very
perilous position. Her calmness through
all this exciting scene dismayed him ; it
looked so little like love. He felt that
unless he could get one of those strange
gleams from her eyes, he could never succeed.


Is there any other lady in this house
who has lost her heart as utterly as Kate
has ? "

Now, this was his only scheme. It was
a pity it failed so signally.

I was expecting that," she exclaimed,
with perfect ease of manner, and just as
though she were admitting the commonest
incident in the world. "Yes, I've seen it
all. And there's something more there than
I quite comprehend. But Dell does not
know — indeed, I am sure that Dell does not

know. Well, I can't help admitting that
I personally adore the colonel. Come,
doctor, do get on ! This is no news to me."

What must be shall be," thought he.
And, with a courage born of desperation,
he said, coming over to her side, " Couldn't
you transfer your affections to me ? That
is all the rest."

He saw the colour fade out of her face ;
but she was perfectly still, quite silent.
'' Perhaps — this is no news," he said, softly.
Still not a word.

He thought he had not made himself
understood. He thought that perhaps she
resented the apparent levity of the few
words he had uttered. He was far too
absorbed in the present moment and its
issues to consider even this. He went on
rapidly, " I should be bolder if I had more
to offer — I don't think you understand me."

She had recovered herself. 'let me see
where were you ? Chaos is come again."

There was a tremulous smile about that

well-controlled mouth, and lie looked at
him quite innocently.

Now, he assured himself the thing was
utterly impossible. He had given her the
opportunity. No doubt, with her wonderful
perceptive powers, she was as well aware of
his designs as he himself. She had not
given a sign. He spoke again in a somewhat
dejected strain —

This will make an important change in
your plans — you will be able to abandon
confectionery "

And live alternately with my brothers-in-law.
You are very kind ; but the idea
does not suit me."

Putting the position as — as we must,
it would be utterly impossible that you
should sell penny tarts."

Nothing is impossible," said she, fixing
him with her eyes. " The truth is, you are
thinking of my future prospects. You think
I ought to make an equally good match.
I shall do nothing of the kind. If I make

a match at all, it will be a very bad one. I
made my arrangements irrespective of my
sister's affairs, and I mean to carry them
out. I believe there is nothing like independence."


Yes ; it was quite clear that she was cold
as any stone. If she could not be surprised
in such a moment of intense excitement,
there could be no hope.

Independence is a grand thing," he
said, disconsolately.

'* I am about to go into the world and
work for myself," she said ; '' but I would
rather go into the world with you, and
work for you as well as myself."

Reilly completely lost his breath. He had
not a word.

I — I was very cruel to pretend to misunderstand
you. But why were you so
afraid of me ? Our positions are not altered
in the least. Facts are not altered by a few
words. You see, I am quite myself."

And so should I have been," he said.

with energy, " if I had been as sure of you
as you were of me."

"Now, sit where you are, if you please.
I must be allowed my own way of doing
things."

Well, certainly she might be allowed to
manage things her own way, since she
managed them so well. It was very pleasant
to watch her, but he noticed that she did
not look at him.

Let me tell you what I know," she
said. " I can guess what you would say.
You are not a rich man with an independence
— and that is very hard to tell. I may
speak in the dark, but I cannot see that
when two people have health and strength,
and both intend to work, that such a step
would be indiscretion. I have often thought
over the matter in theory "

"And now we come to practice."

May I ask you as a favour to sit still ?
I am merely trying to realize chaos. I will
not permit mere impulse to interfere wUh

my action. I shall have to be quite convinced
that I could be a help — that I could
be an assistance — that I could make you
happy''

Eeilly made so strenuous an effort to
rise on this occasion that he actually
succeeded.

AVell," she said, " I don't quite know
that, if we are quite destitute of some of the
gifts this world gives, we should be bound
to throw away the best — the very best gift
God gives us — love."

This was a woman to give one's soul to.
Ravished by the clear strong light of her
eyes, he came over to her side, and placed
his hand upon her shoulder. She moved
back, but he did not remove his hand.
He treated her as one might a timid horse.
Only by degrees would she get accustomed
to a caress," he thought.

But here Reilly was at fault for once.
He failed to calculate upon the unvarying
force of nature, and also upon the extraordinary

mind of this girl. Warm words
and distant acts were contradictions to his
mind. Mary was only governed by her
instinct, which in the first instance, in a
certain kind of woman, is invariably retreat.
She did not hesitate, but suddenly swerved
and placed herself distinctly apart from him,
and there she stood, with downcast eyes,
realizing chaos.

Then came a swift and keen reproach.
She had given herself in word ; should she
withhold the deed ?

Reilly was watching her with all his heart
in his eyes. He had said she should have
her own way ; and she should. So he did
not speak, and he kept his distance.

No ; she would not lack the courage ;
she would let him know that the touch of
his dear hand was not contamination.
Without a word, she drew nearer to him,
nearer still, and yet he did not move ; and
then she gently rested her head upon his
broad chest, and lifted those strange eyes

to his, full now of that passionate light
that he loved to see in them.

It was absolute surrender, and she had
done it in her own way.

CHAPTEE XIV.

THE major's last Engagement.

"VYhen Eeilly returned to Netherbyby, he found
Batliurst alone at the luncheon-table.

What, deserted ! "

Well, Vin's stating a sonnet about Kate's
eyebrows, and has lost his appetite. And
O'Buncous — of course, you have seen him —
is always atthe Glade now."

** Oh, he's there ! I heard his voice once."

Well, I needn't ask how you progressed
I'm satisfied."

'* So am I."

Ten minutes later O'Buncous rushed frantically
into the room, like a man pursued by
demons.

VOL. III. 51

You look heated, major," observed
Eeilly.

"You seem disordered," remarked Bathurst.

Have you been running a race ? " asked
Reilly.

What is up, O'Buncous ? Vin hasn't
gone over another wall, I hope."

Damn the wall ! " panted O'Buncous,
drawing his chair to the table. " In the
name of charity do give me a glass of —
something."

Would you like it hot ? "

Hang me ! I've had it hot. To think
that a man who's gone through dangers by
land and water — who has faced the battlefield
and never once turned his back on the
foe — should be brought to this ! The dangers
of the mighty deep "

Take it cold, then. Do take something,"
said Bathurst, kindly pressing the excited
man.

Thank you, Bathurst — thank you." The
major took a deep gulp. *' Of all the

virao^os I ever met ! Good Lord ! how careful
a man ouo-ht to be with a woman ! "

o

True. They are tender toys," acquiesced
Eeilly, suavely.

The large black eyes of O'Buncous blazed
up angrily at this remark.

Tender f " he exclaimed.

There was something irresistibly comic in
the manner in which that one word was
uttered. It was like an appeal to the gods.

Just pull your shirt-front straight," said
the colonel, confidentially — " somebody may
come in — and have a bit of something to
eat."

Don't ask me to eat," said O'Buncous,
arrano;ino^ his cravat. " I'm a lost man :
Vm a hunted hell-hound ! "

At the same time he passed his plate,
which Eeilly filled copiously with pigeon
pie.

Eat and be merry, for tomorrow we die."

Well, that's consoling, Eeilly, to a man

in trouble. I was never in such a mess in

my life ! " And he went to work on the
pigeon pie with vigour.

The fact is — I've been fool enough to
become eao-ao-ed for the — wel], I don't know
whether it's the thirty-first or the thirty-second
time. 1 can't really at this moment
remember, without reference to my diary.
I've always kept one since I was a child ;
it keeps one's memory green."

Never mind, O'Buncous ; we'll accept
the thirty-second. Let's see — you've been
fool enough to get engaged," said Reilly,
encouragingly. " Bathurst, you hear that ?
It is said that one fool makes many."

And let us hope that one wise man does
the same," said O'Buncous, wittily.

Reilly laughed. '' Say what you will,
O'Buncous, any one would discover you to
be of Irish origin ; some of your remarks
are so unquestionably Hibernian."

Going on the principle that there is no
greater fool than the man who thinks himself
wise, the major may be right," observed

Bathurst. " Have a little more pie ? You'll
feel better presently."

Hang it all ! it is pleasant to have an old
friend," said O'Buncous, with genial warmth.
Yes ; I mil trouble you, Reilly. Say what
you like, a man can't live without food."

Oh, I never said that ! Well, we don't
get any further."

Perhaps I was to blame. It's the first
time in my life I have acted without the
pure and elevating influence of love to guide
me. Disinterestedness has been my distinguishing
quality — if I except personal
course."

'' But you — did run away from her ? "

There's nothing else to be done when
the enemy is a woman. Bathurst, if you'd
have seen the way she made up to me — the
wiles she used ! I was convinced her heart
was mine ; and I knew she had a settled
income. There was no indiscretion "

I hope not — I trust not, O'Buncous,"
observed Reilly, earnestly.

"But I admit there was policy. There
was no impetuous haste. I had weighed the
thing well. Once she told me that, notwithstanding
all her offers, she had never
met a man who pleased her as I did. Upon
the hint I spake — it is ' spake,' I'll swear toit
! For though I don't know whether it
was Moore or Shakespeare — all I can say
is, that if it was Shakespeare he must have
been an Irishman too, say what you will.
Now, what happens ? Oh, the cruelty of
intrigue ! Something goes wrong, and she
loses all she possesses "

'* Not all, major," said Reilly, soothingly.
Is her divine self nothing ? "

Good God, Reilly ! " exclaimed the
major, rising from his chair — his plate was
now empty, and so was his glass — " I can't
maintain a wife ; I haven't the means ! "

Did she know that ? "

She never asked. I was satisfied there
was enough for two. Tchut ! I never was
so deceived in a woman before. Mrs. Elmore

let me into the secret. I wondered what
had taken the starch out of her shirt collar,
that she should condescend to a private talk
with me. I'll give her to you now — you'll
recognize the imitation. I was always a
good mimic. This was the way her ladyship
did it. Bless your soul ! if I'd been
the bisrorest strand-er, she couldn't have been
more formal."

Then he tried to bend forward, assuming
the slight stoop common to Mrs. Elmore
when interested in conversation.

She spoke like a sucking dove. * Oh,
Major O'Buncous ! ' says she, ' you must
not object to the liberty I am about to
take, but it is my duty to let you know
that I have observed your familiarity with
Miss Walker.' I interrupted her. ' Madam,'
I said — madam, I believe, is the proper
address — ' Madam, I have many times been
accused of the same thing:. It is false ! '
She waved her hand in that putting-do\^Ti
fashion. ' No frivolity, if you please. I

am speaking from personal observation,
therefore I know I am justified. Perhaps,
however, things have not gone so far as I
thought.' * Madam,' I cried, 'if you deem
that I have trifled with the affections of
your aunt — you are wrong I ' '^

She isn't her aunt'*

Well, she knew who I meant. * Weare,'
I said, ' already betrothed, but her
peculiar delicacy prevented my speaking
to you upon the subject.' She bowed her
head."

Here the major made a strenuous efibrt
to imitate Mrs. Elmore's willowy bend.
His face became crimson with the exertion.

For Heaven's sake, stop ! " said Eeilly.
*' You'll topple over. What do you expect
to do with your stomach ? It's too soon
after lunch to indulge in exercises of that
sort."

"By George! a year or two ago I could
have touched my toes with my finger-tips
without bending a knee ! Let's see — where

was I ? Oh, * And if ever t^vo hearts were

indestructible cemented ' Then what

do you think she said ? "

"Did she hint it might be injurious to
health ? "

"No; she said it was damned nonsense ! "

O'Buncous, you're romancing. Not a
word of this is true ! "

I wish it wasn't, I'm sure. But it's as
true as the moon's in heaven that Flora
hasn't got a penny ! "

'' And has this fact moistened the cement ? "
asked Bathurst.

She wouldn't listen to another word.
She simply said, ' I leave you now in full
knowledge of the position ; the rest is in
your own hands.' Then she gave one of
her bows "

Don't do it again, I implore you," said
Eeilly. " We don't want a post-mortem in
the house."

WTiat a brutal way you have of putting
things, Eeilly ! I believe you doctors get

your senses blunted. Fancy mentioning to
a man his own post-mortem ! "

Fancy a man trying to bring on a fit
of apoplexy in your very presence ! "

Good Lord ! you don't mean to say I'm
liable ? " The major's face was awe-stricken
as he put the question.

Don't listen to Reilly," said Bathurst,
soothingly. " He's just trying to divert
your mind from your troubles."

It's a precious queer way of diverting
a man's mind — it's like frightening a man
to death to cure the hiccups."

That's a fair comparison, O'Buncous.
Go on."

'' Where was I ? "

Mrs. Elmore had just left the matter in
your hands."

'' Oh I had she ? Well, it didn't turn out
so. I immediately sought an interview with
Flora. I could get neither sense nor reason
into her. She stuck to her point like

wax."

You are not veracious. Say what sou
will, you mentioned cement."

Like wax," repeated the major, not
heeding the interruption. " * It would break
my heart,' she said. ' I have fixed my
hopes — all my hopes — upon this union.'
Well,' I remarked, ' if you see how it's
to be carried out, I'm willing to do so.
But I assure you I can only afford to
marry on reciprocal terms.' *You arch-deceiver
! ' she exclaimed. Now, ' arch ' —
that means, you know, the worst a thing
can be ; and she repeated it several times.
But you can't take me in ! ' And then she
had the indelicacy to throw up some of
my past experiences — with embellishments.
Oh ! a man is a fool to place any confidence
in a woman ! What will it be ? A breach
of promise — or a divorce ? I believe I shall
2:0 mad. She'll drive me to distraction.
She's no bowels, Eeilly."

Never mind ; you have enough for two.
Perhaps she notices it."

*' I shall be a ruined man, Bathurst. 'Pon
my soul ! if I bad ever dreamt of such a termination
to a visit to the country-bouse of a
bachelor friend, I should have — have "

*' Destroyed yourself ? " said Reilly, inquiringly.


If I'd only trusted that twenty pounds
to the post, I should have escaped this."

"By-the-bye, O'Buncous," said Bathurst,
in a listless, easy strain, " what have you
done with the twenty pounds ? "

I brought it down with me. But I've
had no occasion to use it, thanks to your
ample provision. I always used to think,
you know — and so I told Flora — that it was
rather mean not to ask me to dinner, and soon.
An engaged man expects it."

^' Never mind ; that's all over now."

I wish it was," said the major, savagely.

How did you leave her ? "

"In a fit of hysterics, or something. I
don't know what she expected me to do —
but I took to my heels — and she may be

care."

Bathurst rose. "You are giving unnecessary
trouble to those ladies' he said.
Still, he was in too good humour with himself
and the world at large to feel angry
with the ridiculous man, who was looking
the picture of incapacity as he stood before
him, hot and excited.

I won't OTQ there ! Horses shan't cras:
me there again. Tell Mrs. Elmore — you,
Bathurst — that it was a mutual contract —
one man's word's as o-ood as another's — and
let her know that it's no use pursuing
me. I can't meet damno-es. I couldn't
make Flora see that. * Don't tell me I '
says she. ' Look at your linen ! ' Throwing
up a man's linen — the indecency of it !
I as good as told her so. ' It's the first
time,' I said, * my linen has ever been questioned.
I've always made a point of it.
Linen is the distinguishing badge of a
gentleman. When I was going through my

fortune, I used to put on as many as three
or four shirts in a clay.' I don't suppose,"
lie added, with pride, " that any man was
ever more particular."

** I don't know. I once knew a man who
wouldn't keep a shirt on. He was all day
at it ; he tore them off as they brought
them. He beats you. He's in a lunatic
asylum," remarked Eeilly.

I say, Bathurst, you'll go over there.
Don't mention details. Simply say, ' You'll
get nothing out of him. Let him go.' "

Ah, but will you go, if I get her
leave ? " asked Bathurst, humorously.

Well, don't disturb yourself about my
going. If she once sees the futility of her
object, I am safe."

I must, of course, convey a message of
some kind to Flora. She will expect some
expression of politeness concerning her
health. I can assure you that whatever
your notions of the sex may be, a gentleman
can always afford to be civil."

You're right, Bathurst ; it won't do to
infuriate her. Stay — you had better act forme
— I've got a spare lock of her hair somewhere
about me, but I'm hanged if I know
what's become of it ! " He commenced
turning out his pockets rapidly. '' Oh !
here's a note of hers. It came by hand,
and it may be compromising. I forgot
what's in it."

*' Excuse me, I cannot undertake to exchange
gifts."

I only thought it might hasten proceedings
; it would look like business. I wonder
where the hair is ! " Here he made a dive
at his coat-tail. 'ruined ! ruined, as I ama
man ! " The spare lock was, indeed, in a
state of hopeless entanglement. " I shall
never get it out, unless it can be done by
chemicals. There's a corkscrew inside that.
I always carry one for convenience, but I
haven't required it lately. Do you think
she'll demand the hair ? "

Send it as it is, major."

What, my corkscrew ? I've had nothing
of the value. By George ! I hope she
won't expose my poetry. Anything goes
down with a woman, you know, if she
thinks you're the author. But I wasn't —
couldn't write a line to save my life, though
I've written very fair prose in my time.
Some of my love-letters have been published.
A literary friend asked for a few
specimens. He said they couldn't be
equalled, much less imitated : so he worked
'em in. By Jove ! I saw them myself in
print, with the lady's name suppressed, and
Chloe put instead. I've always wondered
why poets so frequently address a lady of
the coloured race. Of course, the one to
whom they were written would recognize
the glowing language. However, she was
married then. It didn't matter. You
might ask for the poems."

Reilly made a signal to Bathurst, and a
few words in an undertone where exchanged
between them.

"No time like the present," said Bathurst.
*' I'll be off at once. Pack up
your corkscrew, and send it by another
messenger."

YOL. Ill 5-2

CHAPTER XV.

THE COLONEL MAKES ANOTHER MISTAKE.

As for Bathurst, he could have leapt along
the road, like a boy at play, on this bright
frosty afternoon ; all nature seemed to
respond to him, and his heart bounded
with the warmth of life within him.

He wondered what would be the effect
when he met her. Would he now be able
to maintain that paternal Platonic tone to
which he had been striving to accustom
himself 1

Never once did O'Buncous and the affair
of Aunt Flora come into his mind. Indeed,
he remembered his " old friend " only when
Mrs. Elmore mentioned his name. She
happened to be alone.

I am rejoiced to see you," she said.
*' You can't think how I have missed yon.
We are getting on admirably. You will
be glad to hear that Dell has received a
first-rate osier from her friend at Grimslade
that rather eccentric lady who took so
much notice of her. Such a charming
! She makes it almost a favour ;
and she can only guess what assistance Dell
may be."

She paused, expecting a word of congratulation,
and glanced at Bathurst expectantly.
He looked taller than usual ;
he looked more imposing ; he looked as
though he had just come into an inheritance.


He must be pleased, although he does
not speak," she thought.

I'm sure you think that very good,"
she said.

I think that — she will receive a better
osier," he replied, in an oracular way.

She shook her head. " She has made no

other application," she said. *' We are all
quite satisfied. But I have forgotten to
tell you — I've been much vexed with Flora.
She has been foolish enough to eni^ag^e
herself to Major O'Buncous. I assure you
I have tried to prevent their intimacy,
but really, my mind being so much
occupied "

No excuse is necessary, Mrs. Elmore.
I have been greatly annoyed by the absurdities
of O'Buncous, myself; I left him now
packing up Aunt Flora's hair''

Mrs. Elmore threw up her hands. " I
asked Flora plainly if she had explained
the change in her prospects. From her
evasive manner, I doubted she had done
so. Nothing remained but for me to open
his eyes. I knew there was not even
sentiment in the affair ; and so it proved.
They had a most stormy scene. I was
thankful that the girls were out ; and, in
the end — I cannot tell what occurred. I
saw him running away as fast as his — his

figure would permit him, \yliile her shrieks
were echoing through the house. Taking
Hannah with me, I went to her. Anger
and disappointment seemed to have driven
her distracted. She is most vindictive ; she
thinks I have injured her. ' Flora,' I said,

I could not have permitted that man to
marry you under false pretences. I am
assured he sought only your money ; and,
setting aside the meanness of that motive,
the risk would be too great for you to marry
a mere stranger, of whose antecedents you
know nothing.' I hardly think she heard
me. I entreated her to be calm. J was
really ashamed that my daughters should
see her. They came in in the midst of it.

What has happened ? ' cried one. ' Who
is ill ? We saw the major running like
a madman.' ' Oh,' said Mary, ' he has
gone to fetch the doctor, I know ! ' "

Bathurst laughed enjoyably. " You
should have seen the old man when he
arrived' said he, unable to suppress his

mirth at the remembrance. ''He seemed
to have been through a severe struggle.
You really took a very wise step. It
would have been a most unsuitable match
a most unreasonable one. He has no
means, and I am inclined to think he is
ill debt. However, what will be the best
way of smoothing matters ? "

Mrs. Elmore cast up her eyes in utter
despair.

She protests she will have redress. Her
conduct is irrational. When she has cooled
down, I will see what can be done. Everyone
in the house has been brought to her
assistance. I have now forbidden any one
to remain with her but Mary. She is so
perfectly collected ; nothing can irritate her.
Well, that is enough of an unpleasant topic.
One might have been able to trust two such
old — I was going to say, scare-crows."

Exactly ; you are quite right. I have
an excellent plan in my head. Don't disturb
yourself. I see my way clear enough. Let

US join the young ladies ; I should like to
see them before I leave."

You are not going to leave," said ]airs.
Elmore, with a pretty air of command ; "I
am positively feeling quite nervous."

Then they went into the snug morning-room
together.

At last 1 " exclaimed Adelaide, playfully.
I thought you were exiled, or "

At last ! " he repeated, with more emphasis
than the words demanded, and an
attempt to fix those eyes upon his own.

He drew his chair near the fire, and
they all began to talk pleasantly. How
thoroughly the colonel enjoyed the whole
aspect of things ! He did not feel like an
outsider now ; he was one of the family.
He would always have a right to come into
the Glade now ; he would always have a
right to those gentle, clever, beautiful
women around him. This was luxury
indeed.

And I — think," said adelaide, 'that my

mother had better remain here until spring.
Then, if I am settled at Grimslade, she shall
come under my wing."

She shall be under your wing," acquiesced
Bathurst ; and the talk went on
cheerfully. In the midst of the soft, delightful
feelings that stole over his senses,
making the present more like a happy
dream than anything else, he now and then
caught Kate's great eyes fixed upon him
with a wistful, longing gaze.

Poor little darling ! " he thought. *how
those eyes used to dance with merriment
when she made her pretty — her inimitable —
speeches ! She is longing for a word of Vin.
It's only another day, my dear."

But although he knew it, the man's heart
would not permit him to be silent. He
made an opportunity, and whispered a few
words in her ear. The effect was magical.
The life-blood bounded to her face, her eyes
lit up with glad surprise, her lips parted.

** Hush ! " he whispered. " Rely on me."

He pressed her hand in a tender, loving
way, while she gazed on him with a face full
of bewilderment. He had only said, " Yin
will be here tomorrow — you will understand."


Kate turned her back to the company ;
she found amazing; interest in the thick,
bare branches of the jasmine that fell
across the window — that very window from
which his fair, exquisite face had looked out
on hers. Her impulsive, loving soul was
thrilled with a strange delight, a strange
hope. He was coming " To-morrow ! — tomorrow
! " sung her joyful heart.

The door opened softly. Mary entered
with a noiseless step. " Sal volatile " was all
she said ; but a smile hovered upon her lips,
and Bathurst understood it.

Fair martyr," he said, " what have you
been through ? "

The smile broke out.

*' Oh, it is so intensely funny ! She has
shown me his poetry. She believes it is his

own ! I've given lier tea, but she refuses
to be comforted. — Mamma, Aunt Flora will
never forgive you."

Never mind that," said Mrs. Elmore.
*' She ought to be grateful."

Mary left the room, and soon her mother
followed her.

Then Adelaide gave the colonel some tea.
Never was nectar more appreciated.

Then they missed Kate, and almost immediately
heard the sound of her fresh, thrilling
voice in the drawing-room.

Why, what possesses Kate ? She has
not sung for weeks."

The colonel rubbed his hands ; his enjoyment
was intense. " That's her safety-valve,"
he thought. '' It's better than hysterics."

Why does not mamma come to tea ?
I suppose Aunt Flora is worse."

He was not particularly anxious that
any one should come to tea. The party
was quite sufficient as it stood — two and
the teapot, and the toast and the cat.

^\ni7 is the cat always required to makeup
the domestic circle ? " he asked, lazily.

Because she is the real representative
of comfort. A cat's ideal is comfort. I've
had a far higher regard for 23uss since I have
seen the pleasure she can give among the
poor. Children and old people sometimes
seem to rely for all the tenderness, for all
the love they get in life, on the cat. I
have thought it a most touching: sio'ht —
a little half clothed, half-fed child, sith a
little kitten to match, purring in its arms.
And let me tell you it is quite a false idea
to imagine these animals have no regard for
people. I plead guilty to having thought
so once. But we naturally become impressed
with a popular error till we learn the truth
from our own experience."

I think it is Ruskin who says the child
should always have its cat ; and, fortunately,
it always can have it. The ' harmless,
universal cat ' may always be picked up,
and it costs nothing."

Anything that can give a joy to the
children of the poor," she said warmly, " I
would welcome with delight. They have
so little of what childhood should have !
Children ! — it used to cause me more pain to
see them than anything else I had to witness.
And I knew absolutely nothing of
them all my life, until those few wrecks. I
think, if you knew anything of children, if you
understood their sweet, innocent, wonderful
ways, you would feel more interest in them,
and your sympathies would be more roused
by their woes than by any other phase of
life."

I know what you mean. Miss Elmore,
and what you would say. I think it even
possible you might convert me. I was born
with a passionate love of beauty. I believe
the cultivation of beauty to be, perhaps, one
of the best means, as it is the most neglected
of the aids, to elevate the masses of
people."

I quite agree with you there."

Bathurst went on warmly, " I think the
man who holds that the contemplation of
beauty — the cultivation of any art for producing
the beautiful — can injure a fellow-being,
had better turn iconoclast at once,
and destroy all God's marvellous gifts of
beauty that lie within reach, and leave the
thirsty soul only the sky and the sea to
reflect the charms of creation. To destroy
the beautiful is to be false to nature."

'' I think that people, ^^dth love for what
is harmonious and graceful, suffer infinitely
more from the contemplation of dirt and
ugliness. I know how it used to affect me."

Gazing at her beautiful form and face,
harmonious in every outline, he wondered
what she must have looked like to the dim,
tired eyes that beheld her.

I value your good opinions so much,"
he said, *that I want to explain how the
very law of my nature insists upon my
sympathy with the beauty of the earth.
That is why I have had so much pity for

good-looking girls of the lower classes. Iq
spite of any amount of misunderstanding,
in spite of ridiculous misconstruction, I still
keep the sympathy."

I hope you have forgotten any foolish
remarks I might have made on that subject
when I first knew you," said she, colouring.
I was only half earnest, and since then I
have learnt to know that every act of yours
is prompted by the best and purest motives."

Now he coloured. " Stay, stay ! " he said ;
*' I cannot bear praise. I was just going to
tell you that I intended to adopt your principle,
and select a number of old, infirm,
and deformed women in place of the present
domestics at Netherbyby."

Nonsense ! you are jesting, colonel."

^' Indeed, the first instalment has arrived.
The little old woman looks oddly enough by
force of contrast."

You cannot deceive me, for I know you
are jesting. What a terrible household that
would be which you propose "

"AYhich you proposed," he laughingly
interrupted.

One would be made wretched to contemplate
so much horror ! I should only
suffer ; but it would certainly kill you."

*' No," he said, reflectively ; "I can't help
thinking that, in a small way, I have done
some good. There's a certain line in the
Lord's Prayer that does not appeal to all
minds alike. ' Lead us not into temptation '
may be interpreted in many ways. Mere
girls — young beautiful girls — have no right
to be thrown out on the stream of life. A
girl is almost as helpless as a child in some
things. Temptation is not a thing to be
reasoned upon, and such girls as I am
speaking of are not trained to self-control.
Numbers of girls — I canst say how many —
have come into my service, and have remained
there under the directions and excellent
training of Mrs. Grove, and after some
years they have left, having at least escaped
some of the dangers to which they were subject,

and she has seen them landed safely in
the haven of some good man's arms. She is
so proud of her weddings. One would think
she made the matches. At any rate, she
takes care to make proper inquiries ; and
there hasn't been one failure yet, she tells
me. Of course, you know they all marry."

Adelaide nodded her head in brief acquiescence.


Now, I think the miseries of the poor ina
great measure could be modified, if there
were any guidance of their young people.
We have to deal with a difficult climax in
the social relations of mankind, and, although
some may have their jest about your friend
at Grimslade, she is perfectly right in the
main, and it is women of such power who
are wanted. Women alone can cure society
of some of its present evils ; and while we
exclude them we cannot hope for much
salutary change. Greater minds than even
the greatest of the present day have held
the same opinion, so I need not be ashamed

of mine. I hope to know your Mrs. Fur-rival
some day."

^' AVhat ! you do not surely think of going
to such a place as Grimslade ? Such ugliness
as that would kill you straight off."

'Tm not sure about that' he said, feeling
inexpressibly guilty.

You could have no notion of the place.
I suppose, now, you have really seen nothing
to equal it. You have always lived at
Nether, or in some of the finest cities
in the world."

*well — you shall introduce me."

I would rather not take the risk ; I
should be afraid. No ; do good in your
own way, and I will try what can be done
in mine."

You can do much more good than you
dream of in this secretaryship to Mrs.
Furnival."

The round was o-ettino- dangerous, and
he was beginnings to feel it so : in fact,
he was hardly conscious of what he said.

VOL. III. 53

I am going to adopt your system. I
declare I have commenced. There is my

old nurse I picked up at Grimslade "

There was dead silence. The deep colour
rushed into his face, and Adelaide, who
could not guess at his emotion, looked at
him in amazement. The silence seemed to
last an age.

Colonel Bathurst," she said, with a little
embarrassed laugh, an evident resource to
hide her agitation, " can you look me in
the face and answer ? "

He did look into her face steadily.
'' Pray, why did you go to Grimslade ? "
Well, luckily the game was played out,
otherwise here would have been a hard position
indeed. He still looked at her steadily.
Because you were there."
It was a brief and comprehensive reply,
delivered abruptly, triumphantly, and without
a shade of his usual courtesy.

Her eyelids fell, and all that extra red
faded out of her face.

Can you look me in the face ? " he said,
imitating her forcible request.

He knew that boldness was the safest
course, and, although he had not chosen
his own moment, he was equal to it now
the time had come.

Adelaide was evidently much disconcerted.
She stood proudly erect ; but she did not
look up.

I am not afraid, even of you," he went
on. " I condescended to deceive you at
your mother's persuasion. She knows
all"

Then he was silent. So was she.

He saw the wild blood leap into her face
ao^ain, and knew she was realizing; what had
come to her then.

No ; he could not deny himself the next
five minutes. One little atom of deceit,
and it should be the last. " Farewell."
There should be no shadow of reserve
henceforth.

Have I said anything dreadful ? There

the mischief's out 1 Is there any great
harm done ? If you had been an ordinary
woman, you would have found out that
I loved you almost from the first. I've
got accustomed to the condition now."

Again he waited for a word, or a glance ;
but she remained in the same attitude, and
never raised those drooping lids.

We are not a pair of foolish sweethearts
boy and girl. We know how we stand.
I am not afraid to own my love for you ;
it is no sin. Do you think I should ever
have told you, if you had not found me outby
this accident ? " He did feel ashamed
of himself as he spoke the words. " Still,
the knowledge will not injure you. Surely
we can trust each other. Do speak, Adelaide
! " he went on, with passionate warmth,
hardly reckoning the words he said. " Do
speak ! Tell me — if I could dare act asa
man should act, and fold you in my
longing arms this minute, would you speak
then ? Would you give me one glance of

response ? Could you forgive me for going
to Grimslade then J "

His voice was deep, and tremulous with
passion ; the strongest emotion of his life
was controlling' him.

No ; she would not speak ; perhaps she
could not. Who shall say the thoughts
that rushed across her mind as she stood
there, listening to the tones of that voice
which had become so dear to her ?

Can you forgive my going there now ? "
he asked.

Then came one swift o-leam from those
eves, overcharge-ed with emotion. What did
he read in the glance ? — passionate sorrow,
love, and regret.

The thought of all his care for her mother,
his unselfish devotion to herself, her painful
inability even to let him know half she felt
all these pent-up sensations found vent inaction.
She stooped ; she bent that stately
head, and touched with her lips the hand
that clasped hers. Then, without permitting

her eyes once to meet his, she hurriedly
turned away. But he was too quick for her.

No — no — no," he whispered, detaining
her. " I cannot let you go. You have to
forgive me for much before you leave me.
Adelaide — I am ashamed of myself ; but —
you never are going to leave me again.
Yes — I am quite sane ! Don't "

Stop ! stop ! " she cried, breathlessly.
"You must not speak so. Have you not
known ? It seems like treachery to have
allowed you to be in ignorance ! "

Her beauty was intensified by her passionate
excitement. He scarcely was conscious
of the words he uttered, while he gazed on
her ; but he did murmur something to the
effect that he had known.

You knew ! you hicio ! " she repeated,
half absently. She was trying to reconcile
such knowledge with her version of his
character.

You have been taught to reverence your
conscience as your king "

^' Then I have gone far beyond my lesson
! " she cried out, passionately ; " for
indeed, I reverence my conscience more
than many kings ! "

"And so do I," he whispered, with joyful
emphasis. " Forgive me, Adelaide ! I have
wronged you by deceit — I have done violence
to my exacting conscience — but only
within the last few minutes. You shall be
as willing to hear as I to speak ! Another
tale has to be told before you can understand.
Your sister Mary heard it this
morning — and she is going to marry Dr.
Reniy."

CHAPTER XVI.

GENERAL COURTNEY's MANOEUVRE.

The next few hours marked an epoch in
many lives. Intense excitement prevailed
among every member of both households.

It was as much as Mrs. Elmore could do
to prevail upon Aunt Flora to retire for the
night. There were many stormy scenes
before she could be reduced to a state of
sufficient composure to disarrange her headgear,
and commence operating upon her
*' fringe " with curl - papers. She did it
systematically and carefully as ever, raving
all the time.

*let me stay with her," pleaded Mary.
It cannot hurt me to lose a night's rest."

No, child, no ! Rest is out of all question

for me to-nioflit. She has worried
you all enough with her sentimental, superannuated
folly. I will have no more
of it."

So Mary had obediently gone to her room
long' after midnight, realizing; that for her,
too, there could be no rest that night.

Mrs. Elmore, naturally concerned about
many things, found her mind wandering
from the one everlasting topic of the major.
She seldom spoke, because, since she could
only express either contempt or disapproval,
she valued her own peace too much to feel
the adorer of Aunt Flora.

It is alton-ether a disgraceful scheme !
He has mentioned the entertainments he
has given ; he has spoken of the people of
rank with whom he has associated "

My dear Flora ! " expostulated Mrs.
Elmore, at this point of the argument, being
somewhat out of patience.

Oh, don't use that word, my dear ! "
cried Aunt Flora, sarcastically. '*' It sounds

very like cant, after all that has passed
between us."

A mere inadvertence," said Mrs. Elmore,
almost lauo^hino:. " You made the same
error yourself in reproving me. Habit is
so strong."

o

Yes ; too strong for sincerity. Most
people don't know what sincerity means ;
they're only honest in their own schemes."

'* I am quite willing that you should
believe in my schemes," said Mrs. Elmore,
wearily — " quite willing. I never undertook
an action in my life, and hesitated whether
it would be understood or not. When you
see what I have saved you, you will be
sorry for what you have said."

"It is too late to save me anything now ! "
said Aunt Flora, furiously. " Can't you see
what you have done ? I've nothing to lose
now. How could he spend my money when
I have none ? You have ruined my future,
and made me a miserable woman."

We hope that something may be saved,

Flora, and upon that you may yet live happily,
though not in a fashionable boardinghouse.
Think on the reproaches you would
have had to endure — perhaps even worse —
if you had married the major under false
pretences."

That was my affair ! " was the savage
retort. " What right have you to take the
law into your hands ? "

Mrs. Elmore leant back wearily in her
chair, and closed her eyes ; she would not
be betrayed into Speech again, she protested
mentally.

I almost wish he had not spoken ! "
sighed Kate, turning ao-ain in restless aspiration
on her pillow.

She had endured, for two long hours, the
misery of being thoroughly wide awake in
the blackest of black nights. Now she
resolved to get up, and, ^dth a steady
resolution not to let her thoughts wander,
lit her candle, put on her warmest wrapper,
and took a book. But even her favourite

author could not enchain her now. The
wild, unrealized thoughts that haunted her
forbade the words she read to have any
meanings.

I will do something mechanical," she
said ; "I will copy it."

The activity of her brain was painful just
then, and her pulses were throbbing as
though she had been taking active exercise.
Proceeding on tiptoe, candle in hand, to get
an inkstand from the morning-room, she
was surprised by hearing a sound as she
passed Adelaide's room. Harmless though
her errand mio-ht be, she did not wish to
provoke remark, and hurried on.

It was too late. Adelaide opened her
door.

Is that you, Kate ? " she asked in surprise.
" I thought it was mamma. Have
you heard them ? "

Them ? " Kate repeated, absently. " The
cats ? "

Cats ! no. Aunt Flora and mamma.

Sometimes you hear crying — then there is
a sarcastic hysterical laugh. What brought
you out ? Cats ? ''

'^ I was too restless to sleep," said Kate,
meekly. '' I thought I'd try Mary's theory
about occupying the mind by copying, and
I was oroinof for the ink."

"It's a vague theory," said Adelaide,
gently, putting her hand on her sister's
shoulder. 'come and sit with me. There's
a good fire, and I shan't attempt to go to
sleep."

The door was no sooner closed than there
was a tap.

You, Mary ? "

"Why such surprise? Is it very amazing,
when, in a quiet, regular household, one
hears a discussion on the staircase at four
in the morning, one should take some
trifling interest to find out what it
means ? "

I thought we whispered," said Adelaide.
"It was Kate and I, as you see. Well, we

won't stand here. Come in, and we'll make
some hot coffee."

Look ! Here comes mamma," said
Mary, " I see the gleam of a candle."

The girls made a pretence to scramble
away unseen.

Dear me ! " whispered Mrs. Elmore, as
she came up. " How extremely injudicious
and on such a bitter night ! Hadn't you
better go on the roof ? "

Kate was just proposing it," said Mary,
putting her arm round her mother's waist,
and drawing her inside the room. " We are
goings to make some coffee."

Nonsense ! You had better go to bed.
I was going to make a cup of tea."

Coffee is better," said Mary, didactically.

At this moment Aunt Flora gave a loud
hysterical sob.

There ! I must go. She wants tea."

Don't give her tea," said Mary, relentlessly,
"unless you put something else
m it.

A sedative surely would be permissible,"
suo^o^ested Adelaide.

If she insists on tea," said Mary, firmly,
I will give you a few grains of opium."

No, no " — Mrs. Elmore put up her
hands — " that is playing with edged tools ; "
And she hurried away.

5p ^ ^ '^ ^

It was past midnight at Xetherby when
Bathurst retired to his room. For hours
he had been bored by the importunities of
O'Buncous, who would not leave him.
Vivian and Eeilly had managed to escape,
but he could not. And now he had no
idea of sleep. He merely wheeled round
his chair in that delightfully cosy study
of his, and let his mind dwell upon the
incidents of the last few days. He had
no wish now to avoid foUowino- out these

o

visions of the brain.

Perhaps no man, who has just proposed
to the one woman on earth who can give
him happiness, ever did feel natural, quite

himself, or even at ease. But the excitement
is a very delightful one, as he found
it while he sat there lazily puffing a cigar,
and conjuring up visions of that ideal
woman.

"She is my ideal among women," he
said to himself, " and she's joiner to be
mine."

And he pictured to himself the tete-tete
of yesterday, before the wild surge of passion
had set in. How the fire had blazed and
danced ! how delightful had been the odour
of the tea ! how every line of her undulating
form came out in bold relief in the pale
reflection of winter sunlight — the foot
against which the cat was resting in
perfect confidence that tail and paws would
remain uninjured.

Of course, he must have a cat on the
hearth rug ; he must bring that scene about
as often as possible. It occurred to him,
as an odd thing, that in all these years
of bachelorhood he had not known the

comfort of a cat ! He could look forward to
a thousand times more happy meetings

But his reflections were not all of a
selfish nature. He tried to imagine the
emotion that would fill the breast of that
unselfish woman who had said she wished
she could ive her daughter to him. Then
there was Kate ; that ardent, impulsive girl
was as dear to him, he knew, as though
she were his sister. There was revolution
everywhere. Yivian, who had suffered the
gnawing pangs of disappointed passion,
would have a pleasure the greater for his
pain.

"For," thought Bathurst, "we get at
nothing* o;ood but through suffering;. He
had to take the dose, and I don't think any
man ever tasted a more bitter draught
But it was soon over. Mine has been taken
in sips in a lifetime."

He remembered how at times he had
deplored his loneliness ; the secret atom of
affinity was always wanting.

vol . III. 54

' The warmth of double life as Tennyson
calls it "

A sharp noise startled him from his
reverie. It was an unaccountable noise,
something between a heavy thing falling
and a door being banged with an obstruction.


He thought of the pictures, he thought of
burglars, he thought of fire — all of an instant.
Then he caught up his reading-lamp,
and as quickly put it down. Should he
wait to get a light ? No. He threw the door
open that the light might shine out in the
corridor.

At the further end, near Eeilly's room, he
observed a movement, even through the
darkness. It was a white object. Upon
this he advanced cautiously.

'' Hallo I Is that you, Bathurst ? "

Is that you, O'Buncous ? I should say,"
exclaimed the colonel in amazement. '' What
is the matter ? Is the house on fire ? Good
Heavens, you might have put on something ! "

It was true that O'Buncous stood there
clothed only in his nightshirt and a pair
of slippers.

'' Fire ! What makes you think of fire ?
I just went to have a word with Reilly, and,
after contradiction — as no gentleman hasa
right to contradict another— he actually
shoved me out of the room. Used forcible
means, Bathurst, to a man in my condition !
What do you think of that ? "

Why, you'd no right to be in such
condition'

*•' Upon me soul, Bathurst ! when a man's
in my state, he doesn't think upon the minor
details of society's''

At any rate, get in, and put something
on.

Bathurst went on to Eeilly's room. Out
came that lono'-sufierino- man, looking almost
as though he had been through a campaign.
The colonel could not suppress a smile.

I'm heartily sorry you've been disturbed,"
said Reilly ; " but the fact is, I was worn outwith

his tomfoolery, and, being in no mood
for it, I turned him out."

"Don't offer an excuse," said Bathurst,
laughing. " How long have you had him
here ? "

Three mortal hours — at the same thing !
I got sick to death at the sight and sound
of him."

'^ 1 thought I had disposed of him for the
night," said Bathurst, blandly.

He's taken umbrage now, I guess.
What's he doing ? "

Dressing I hope. Has he been in his
nightshirt for three mortal hours ? "

Well, he came in it, but eventually rolled
himself up in one of my blankets ; and as it
is a cold night, and I had got chilled to the
marrow sitting up listening, out of politeness,
to his meanderings, I couldn't stand
his going off with the blanket — never thought
he'd meet anybody, you know."

Another confused and unaccountable sound
fell upon their ears.

'' What is he up to now ? " asked
Eellly.

I say — quick — somebody. I've caught
my nightshirt on fire."

"Good Heavens!" exclaimed Bathurst ;
we shall have an inquest next."

Both men hurried to the majors room.
In their haste they stumbled against each
other, for no gleam of light nov' issued from
Bathurst's room.

''I see what it is," the colonel said, in a
hurried undertone ; ''he has taken my lamp
and upset it. Don't let us disturb the
household, if possible. The women are some
distance off — that's fortunate."

They rushed into the room.

For God's sake, put. me out ! " O'Buncous
cried, imploringly.

A dim liorht was visible, and a smouldering:
smell as of charred linen.

It's out, man alive ! ' said Eeilly. *' Where
are you f

At this moment Bathurst uttered an imprecation.

He had trodden on the broken
glass of the Limp.

I'm not out, I tell you, Reilly ! It's
your confounded contradictory habit ! I'm
consuming inwardly. Lord knows what's
done."

Then he groaned.

Eeilly came across the ewer, for which he
was in search, and the contents of this he
dashed at the portion of dim red still visible
on what he assumed to be the shirt of
O'Buncous.

What the devil are you up to ? " shrieked
he.

Stand still till I get a light. There's
smoke here."

O'Buncous groaned and expostulated.

Bathurst returned with a candle. The
room presented a most confused spectacle —
all the major's wardrobe was scattered about
the room ; a chair and small table had been
tilted over by his fall ; the glass and fragments
of the lamp were scattered in all

directions ; and, lastly, O'Buucous himself,
in the midst of the ruins, with the bedclothes
half swathed around him, and the
remnants of charred linen hanging from his
shoulder.

Well, confound it ! here's a pretty row
to make about nothing," said Eeilly. '^ You're
not hurt. Suppose — after this miserable
termination of the nio-ht "

*' It isn't the termination — who says it's
over ? "

'^ I for one," says Bathurst, " sincerely
hope it is."

A man in trouble, as I've said, isn't
responsible for details. There's no man
more particular than I am in dress — and
look at me now ! "

They did look at him, and a more comical
object had never presented itself to their
eyes. Both men laughed, and, as their eyes
met, laughed again more hilariously. The
door was closed now, and the fire was out ;
they could afford to laugh.

Ah ! that's right. Indulge in your
merriment at a fellow-creature's expense."

It's no laughing matter' said Reilly,
drily. '' There's every natural law why
this oil should have caught and blazed into
a conflagration, and you'd have been burnt
to a cinder, O'Buncous — blistered like the
rind of a sucking pig, or the oil paint on
Bathurst's pictures."

Bathurst shuddered, whether at the first
or last misfortune, who could tell ?

Well, gentlemen, all I've got to say is,
here I am — and a more miserable object
never trod this earth 1 How am I to escape
her clutches ? I've always had an aversion
to thin, long-nosed women — it must have
been instinct that warned me of what was
to come. Good Lord ! what shall I do
with her. * Oh ! ' says she, ' if you force
me to it, I've the evidences of your former
life "

Why — what have you told her ? "

*' Nothing," said O'Buncous, excitedly.

*' but what might transpire between —
between people on such terms. I'm afraid
to meet her "

"I should think so. She might be disenchanted'


Now, don't stand there grinning, Eeillj.
Haven't you got some salve ; for I'm martins
all over ? "

"There's no salve wil cure love, O'Buncous.
Here, wrap yourself in one of these things ;
they're saturated in oil. You couldn't have
anything better."

But, I say — is paraffin the thing ? "

"It isn't j)^r^ffiiij it's — what oil is it,
Bathurst ? "

I really don't know ; it's a very luminous
oil."

There you are, O'Buncous. Lay it on.
It will make things clear to you. After
that, we'll say good-night."

'don't think of leaving me!" pleaded
O'Buncous. " Take a seat — do ! "

"Really," expostulated Bathurst, "things

are not sufficiently inducing. '* We'll talk
over your affairs in the morning''

And what am I to do in the meantime ?
Can I — I appeal to you as men — can I
endure my sufferings for the rest of this
night in silence ? Can I, I repeat, endure
my sufferings of mind and body alone ? "

Well, there's a lady who would gladly
take pity on you close in the neighbourhood.
Shall I give her to understand that you
think man was not formed to live alone ? "

*' This man must be got rid of somehow,"
whispered Bathurst, decisively.

Eeilly nodded.

*' Let us get through the night," Bathurst
said, in the same tone.

Let's utilize the night. Try another
tack." — Then Eeilly spoke aloud and
solemnly, *' That woman's bound on you,
O'Buncous. Why not take the thing easily ?
You intended to dupe her ; now she intends
to dupe you. It's an equal game — nothing
could be fairer. Give in, and marry her

like a man. Don't you think you'd better
get into bed ? "

Me ! Are you mad ? I'll never marry
lier ! I'll go into fifty courts of justice first.
I'll stand any bamboozling from the
biggest bully in England rather than betaken
in by a thin long-nosed woman I
detest ! Go to bed ? not me ! If I can
get anything on — do you think I can,
Emily?"

You can but try. I should try if I
were in your condition. Yes, certainly she
means — it is quite clear what she means ; "
and Eeilly's air, when he used the words,
was very solemn.

O'Buncous made an immediate effort to
get something on, and, laughable as his
evolutions were, Bathurst managed not to
give way to his sense of the ridiculous.

I really think," he said, "it is useless
to persevere. When you are dressed, how
do you propose to spend the night ? Let
us reduce the things to reason. Nothing

can be done now. To-morrow morning we
can talk it over, and you can come to your
final arrangements. But to be called upon
at this hour in the morning to discuss a
matter on which too much has already been
said "

Too much ! " exclaimed O'Buncous, excitedly.
'^ What is to be the end ? "

You should have thought of that when
you proposed to her," said Reilly, gravely.
'* You'd better accept the position without
a fuss. You know that you told me that,
in spite of her few defects "

Her few defects ! Why, she's all defects.
There isn't a point about her."

'' That I deny. There was the nose. And
although we have no right to judge of what
is not proven, I should say the tongue."

That not proven — you should have
heard her ! "

"It is quite bad enough to hear you,"
said Bathurst, wearily. *'Do be quiet for
an hour at least, and let us get some rest ! "

But O'Bimcous made another and more
effectual effort to clothe himself. He got
into one leg of his trousers with difficulty.

I believe I've ripped up the skin ! " he
cried. " Good Lord ! was there ever such
agony of mind and body united in one man
before ! "

Eeilly made a valiant effort, and overcame
an impulse to laugh.

'' O'Buncous," he said, in solemn, impressive
tones, "there is but one thing to
be done — you must fly ! It is your only
hope. Remember that —

Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned,
And hell no fury like a woman scorned.*

Fly ! Out of her clutches you'll be another
man !

I've thought of it. I've had the idea ;

but " Here O'Buncous paused, and

looked at both men entreatingly. Suddenly
he broke out in a most unexpected way.
"How marvellously history repeats itself!

Now, here's a coincidence. Would you
believe that memory brings back a similar
incident ? "

Memory is the only friend that grief
can call its own," murmured Eeilly.

"This was the situation. I had been
staying with General Courtney the whole
time the 51st was stationed at Ceylon. A
most remarkable thing ! Remarkable things
always are happening to me."

No wonder," acquiesced Bathurst,
gloomily.

Yes ; I'd been staying there for months.
I was as happy as a king ! When one
morning in comes the general with a
most villainous expression of countenance.
^ O'Buncous ! ' says he, ' you must pack uj)
and go at once. A terrible — a most unforeseen
thing has happened ! ' I'm afraid
I made an impious exclamation. I own
I was surprised. * What's the hurry ? ' I
asked. ' Are you going to pack up yourself?'
He had to admit that he wasn't.

Then make yourself easy I said. * I
shan't care what has happened ; it won't
trouble me ! ' "

O'Buncous paused, and then went on with
solemn emphasis, " Courtney looked the
picture of despair at my nonchalance. He
seemed suddenly to resolve upon a desperate
course. Coming close to me, he whispered
almost with ferocity, ' The secret must
come out, I see ! Well, then, O'Buncous,
I am bound to tell you what nothing short
of the present position would have wrung
from my lips. My wife has fallen in love
with you ! How, as a man of honour,
can you do anything but leave the house ? '
I stared at him with blank amazement."


What you, O'Buncous — amazed at such
an announcement ! " exclaimed Reilly, ironically.


'^ For two reasons ; yes," admitted O'Bun-
cous, modestly. " In the first place, the
lady had made no show of her affection.

She was something of the touch-me-not
style of Adelaide Elmore. In fact, she
treated me with such damned cool indifference
that the devil himself wouldn't have
suspected her of tenderness. Oh, these
women ! They could deceive an angel from
heaven. However, as I was saying, there
were two reasons ; and the second was, that
he, a man of his natural dignity and pride,
should admit such a thing."

It is amazing," said Eeilly, melting into
smile.

*' Of course, as a gentleman — as the
general reminded me — I could do no other.
I went to put up my things, and, just as
I had found that one of my best shirts
was missing, I heard voices in an adjacent
balcony. Thinking some visitor had arrived,
1 went over to the window and listened.
I could catch nearly every word. Lady
Courtney was saying in heartfelt tones,
I am sorry — very sorry, Arthur, you should
have descended to such means.' Arthur,

you know, was the genera]. 'Oh,' says he,
it was my last card, love ! AVhat matters
the means when the end is attained ? 'Oh,
but suppose,' cries she, in acute grief —
suppose he should tell any one ! ' ' Don't
trouble yourself about that,' said this unnatural
monster. ' Not a single soul would
believe him ! We are safe there.' Xow,
that's a true story. Would you credit such
conditions in a married life ? "

There was no answer. Bathurst and the
doctor were both laughing, and when their
eyes met, after this last serious appeal, they
broke out with a genuine burst of merriment.


Well, I don't see the joke," said
O'Buncous, at last. " Perhaps I'm not
behind it ! "

'' I thought it a very funny story," said
the colonel, apologetically. " I didn't laugh
at the ' conditions ' to which you alluded."


*' Although they are common — too com-vol.

in. 55

mon," said Eeilly, repressing his merriment.
*' However, you're well out of it all ; your
ingenuous nature isn't suitable for matrimony."


"Ah ! that brings me back to the present.
'' Help me out of it ! "

The tone was low and appealing.
Bathurst guessed what was coming.

I — I really must ask for the loan of
a little loose cash. I don't like to present
a note for — let's see, what is it — twenty
pounds ? at the station, you know. Besides,
it may cause delay."

** You shall have what you like," said
Bathurst, briskly, " but lose no time."

*' Stand not upon the order of your going,
but go at once," said Reilly, theatrically.

You'll see to my traps ? Send them onto
the Green Dragoon. That's the little
house I always stay at when in town. I'm
sure I'm much obliged to you for all your
kindness. All I can say is, I trust you
may be spared a similar experience."

I think you're safe there," laughed
Eeilly. " Let me see — the first train goes
at six. We can make him a little hot
coffee."

*' Are we to have no peace for the night ? "
asked Bathurst, lugubriously.

Hopeless," muttered Reilly, in an undertone.
" Get him off ; it's our only
chance."

I say, where's my cravat ? No, I won't
take coffee neat ; a dash of brandy in it
would warm me up."

What are you throwing yourself into
contortions for'" asked Eeilly, as O'Buncous
rose from the ground, his face purple.

'* I can't find my cravat," he said, angrily.
Of all the confounded muddles a man was
ever in "

Never mind your cravat, O'Buncous ;
you'll have to wear an overcoat, you know.
Don't lose the train ! "

I won't lose the train if the devil himself
stands in my way ! What are you going

to say to lier ? It's no good asking you todo
it, Batliurst — you're too damned particular.
— But you don't mind a tarradiddle,
do you, Reilly ? Tell her — I'm married ! "

CHAPTEE XVII.

HOW THE LAST SCHEME FAILED.

The strange excitement had not lessened at
the Glade when the morning dawned ; indeed,
it had only deepened when they once more
met around the breakfast-table. No one
ate anything. They all sipped coffee, and
spoke in undertones. Mrs. Elmore had just
been sent away to get an hour's sleep, for
Aunt Flora had at last succumbed to nature
and closed her eyes.

Kate, the warm expectant blush upon her
face, wandered restlessly hither and thither.
She knew not what was about to happen ;
she did not care to surmise. The one idea
was paramount — he was coming — coming !
There seemed to be a general understanding

in this family that what the colonel said
was a matter of law divine — and he had
said that her hero was coming.

There's the gate bell ! I hope it won't
wake mamma," said Mary.

Hush ! you must whisper," said Kate,
putting up her finger as Eeilly and Bathurst
came in. " Poor mamma is asleep."

Bathurst whispered his salutations accordingly.
" You are yourself this morning —
the real Kate once more — the bonniest Kate
in Christendom."

*eyes. We have all been up all night,"
Mary was saying to Reilly. " It was too
bad. Mamma would not allow me to administer
a sedative. I woidd have done it."

/ ought to have done it," said Reilly,
thoughtfully. ^' How clever women are !
Now, it never occurred to me to give one
to the major."

'* What ? " inquired Mary.

We, too, have had an awful night. I
wonder which was worse ? "

'^ It wouldn't have been so bad but f<jr
the cold."

He never ceased."

She never ceased."

What a pair they would have made ! "
laughed Eeillj. '^ Luckily I have had no
hand in separating them."

Nobody has had anything to do with
it, that I can see," said Mary. " It would
be nothing more than a joke, if it were not
for my mother. She would not allow me
to take her place."

Miss Kate, my nephew is bringing some
music for your gratification. I left him
making the selection."

Reilly and Mary were standing by the
window, Bathurst and Kate by the fireside.
The colonel had a strong paternal feeling
for this beautiful girl who stood in silence
beside him, battling bravely with herself to
subdue the emotion that would find some
expression. But now he found himself, not
painfully, but delightfully affected. He felt

that his eyes were moist, and he was conscious
— although he recognized the absurdity
of the thinjx — that he should like to kiss her.

The gate bell pealed again.

That is he, Kate," he whispered, hardly
sure of his voice. " Be kind to him — dear
boy ! He's like my own son."

She gazed upon him in wonder-stricken
surprise.

'rit is all right, believe me, child," he said,
hurriedly. " All that he will tell you is
true. Run upstairs ; he will go to you."

She hesitated still, with eyes fixed on his.
Bathurst took her hand and led her to the
door, and she had just time to escape ashe
intercepted Vivian in the hall.

Then Adelaide went to her mother s room
to make sure she was sleeping.

x4.nd have you left the major to suffer
alone ? " she asked, when she came back.

'' I have dismissed the remotest thought
of O'Buncous," said Bathurst, looking at her
admiringly ; he could not help noticing the

unwonted brilliancy of the flush upon her
cheeks. " The poor demented old man left
us this morning, and took the first train to
London. I spare you the recital. There is
another to be made which touches us more
closely."

Surely not to-day ? " cried Adelaide,
clasping her hands.

'* No," said Eeilly, coming forward. 'the
last act of this very remarkable play must
still be postponed. It was first a farce,
then genteel comedy. There have been
some melodramatic scenes ; once there was
danger of real tragedy ; there has been a
dash of pantomime all through, and the
finale is to be a grand transformation''

We were so tempted to tell Kate last
night," said Adelaide, " I could scarcely
refrain from origins her a hint."

Well, I couldn't get as far as that,"
laughed Bathurst. " I did drive a hint — and
left the rest in better hands."

*****

Mrs. Elmore woke from her slumber with
a nervous start. Half asleep still, she flung
on her dressino^-^^ow^n and went to Aunt
Flora. '' What do sou want ? " she asked,
in a half-dazed way.

There was no response.

** I thought I heard her scream. How
my nerves must be shaken ! "

Feeling convinced she could not sleep
again, Mrs. Elmore quietly closed the door
and passed downstairs. She hesitated at
the drawings-room door, thinking she heard
voices, and went into the room so gently
that those two lovers absorbed in themselves
did not hear.

The disclosure had been made, the strain
of wild excitement had passed, and Kate
had accepted the fiict, as she might the
termination of an exquisite romance. It
was, after all, natural it should end so.

Vivian was standing: beside her — close
beside her ; his arm was around her waist,
her head upon his shoulder. His beautiful

profile was the prominent effect of the
group.

*' How can I explain ? " she was saying.
It would not seem unnatural if all the
forces of the earth had been brought to
aid us." /

The gods have been called upon to
annihilate both space and time to make two
lovers happy."

Then he heard a sound, a sort of murmured
groan. They started. Both turned.

There stood the mother, white as any
ghost. She threw up loth hands as they
approached her, as though she could not
endure their presence.

'•'Oh, I am so grieved ! " whispered
Vivian, hurriedly. A shock, of all things,
they wanted to prevent. " What was my
uncle thinking" about ? I thought we were
safe."

Kate had attempted to approach her
mother, but the strange intensified look
that met her own tearful eyes withheld

her. Following her impulse, she ran quickly
from the room.

I — I — would rather have died," Mrs.
Elmore said, in broken, gasping accents — " I
would rather have died than seen this day !
Oh, you — I could have trusted you "

Again he approached her. He saw she
was giving way, that her excitement had
overcome her. He rushed forward just intime
to catch her sinking form in his arms,
and so, holding her past all consciousness
now, he was found.

Eeilly hurried in. " Whose fault is
this ? '* he asked. " This is just the worst
thing that could have happened."

*'I don't knov\^ anything. I was perfectly
certain that wee were safe."

It's all that cursed Aunt Flora," said
Eeilly, between his teeth. " However, what
have you done ? "

*' Nothing," said Vivian. ^' Good God!
Eeilly, how ill she looks ! Take her from
me — do."

Eeilly relieved him of the helpless weight
upon his arm.

Place that cushion for her head upon
the sofa there. Bring Bathurst and Hannah ;
don't let any of the girls come."

But this precaution was too late. Kate
had only been able to utter a few disjointed
words ; they had guessed the rest, and they
were at the door.

It is impossible," Vivian said ; "you cannot
go in. Eeilly is with her."

Seeing his agitation, and that in him
being so unusual, they instantly apprehended
the worst.

Send Hannah," he said ; '* he wants
Hannah."

I," said Mary, stepping forward resolutely,
" shall be more use than Hannah."
With a heart throbbing to pain, she went
on, " If my mother were dying, I could
do my duty — but I will not be shut
out."

Calm and self-contained, she went into

the room. " I am here," she said, giving
Eeilly a glance that expressed much.

He accepted her decision, and knew that
she would be equal to the occasion.

I don't want to interfere yet," he said.
Keep Kate and Seymour out of her sight.
Where is Bathurst ? "

At this moment he appeared, closing the
door carefully behind him.

''I was just summoned to speak to Miss
Walker," he said. " Do tell mc, Reilly,
what has been done ? "

^' The worst tiling in the world — a shock.
We must be careful ; there must be no
noise, no excitement of any kind. There is
water on the table ; saturate this handkerchief.
I want her to rouse gradually."

With a great bustle of rustling drapery
Aunt Flora entered. " Why did you leave
me so abruptly, colonel ? " she asked. " I
suppose it was not deemed desirable I should
hear what you had to say. Dear me ! What
is the matter now ? "

Mary was kneeling by the sofa, applying
the handkerchief to her mother s forehead.
She turned, and looking at her aunt said, infirm
undertones —

Don't you see that my mother has given
way at last, from the torment and worry to
which she has been subjected ? "

I must insist upon quietness," said
Eeilly, decisively. '' And the fewer around
her the better."

Oh, Doctor Eeilly ! you need not make
a fuss about nothing — doctors always do. I
fainted twice yesterday. There is nothing to
alarm anv one."

"But you are in the habit of fainting
Mary, contemptuously. " This has
never happened to my mother before."

*' Are you going out, madam ? " asked
Eeilly, quietly.

Certainly not ! I've as much right here
as any one else. I expect all this ill-humour
is because she cannot have her own way in
what concerns me. Such interference is "

There was a vindictive gleam in Reilly's
eyes. He said nothing, but, with a sudden
movement, he twisted one arm round her
waist with an iron grip, and in another
moment she found herself dropped outside
the door, and heard the key turned upon
her.

*^ Disgraceful — shameful conduct!" she
expostulated. " A man to dare to touch
me I

If she's going to stand there and
rave ' besfan Bathurst.

'* I'll smother her first," said Eeilly,
viciously.

She really ought to be shut up somewhere.
It is no use expecting her to hear
reason."

'' I'm afraid to put my hands upon her,"
said Bathurst, hesitatingly.

*' I'll not endure it ! " exclaimed the shrill
voice outside the door. " You're all in
league against me. I should not wonder if
the major is imprisoned."

There was a slight spasmodic movement
in !Mrs. Elmore's face.

"The handkerchief," whispered Reilly.
He went to the door and unlocked it.
*' Stand clear, Bathurst ! she may kick."

Aunt Flora was still rattling on. In an
instant Eeilly placed the handkerchief over
her mouth, and, holding her in one strong
arm, positively ran with her to a distant
room.

What are you doing ? " exclaimed
Adelaide, who, seeing the strange vision,
had followed in alarm.

He, however, did not hear her speak.
Aunt Flora was struggling ineffectually.
The handkerchief, which he had simply held
across her mouth, was now displaced, ami
the poor lady poured forth a torrent of
angry words.

How dare you — dare you touch me ! "
she cried. " Adelaide, you saw it done.
How could you permit it ? "

Reilly placed her carefully in a chair.

VOL. III. 66

Now, be quiet," he said, " and keep out of
the way. You will excuse me for taking
such a step when you know how important
the matter is."

Doctor Reilly is sure to be right," said
Adelaide, soothingly. " Don't you see he is
perfectly cool ? "

Perfectly cool ! Indeed ! He has behaved
in the most ungentlemanly way. It
is outrageous. I have been gagged like a
common — criminal. "

At this Reilly, taking adelaide's handled
her to the door.

We have other matters to attend to," he
said, as he turned the key on the outside.
Don't be afraid ; she won't jump out of the
window."

He did not say another word. He hastened
back to Mrs. Elmore. He found her now
somewhat revived. She had not awakened
to the memory of what had happened, but
she was conscious.

Bathurst, too, was kneeling beside the

sofa. She was absolutely smiling at him.
Reilly did not move ; he made a sign to
Adelaide to be still.

"Have I been hurt?" she murmured,
vaguely.

I hope not," said Bathurst, tenderly ; and
Mary calmly smoothed her mother's hand.
*' You see, we are all calm —perfectly untroubled.
That would not be if anything
were wrong."

No, no. But still I remember — could it
have been a dream ? I woke — I dreamt I
went to Flora. It was so real ! "

She stopped and shuddered.

You've had too much strain lately,"
said Reilly, quietly ; "that is all."

Is that all ? It is very bad. But where
is Kate ? Let her come to me."

She shall come. I will bring her to
you." Then he whispered to Adelaide,
'' Keep it up. Don't show the least excitement
; humour her. Give the hint to
Bathurst. I'm o-oino- to drive her something."

There was an unnatural, dreaming lookin
her eyes, and she watched the door
anxiously. Kate did not appear.

Oh ! where is she ? " she cried, imploringly.


I will go," said Adelaide. " I will bring
her at once. We will all be near you."

It could not have been real ! Oh, Colonel
Bathurst, help me ! Are you deceiving me ?
Am I ill ? Oh ! I hope I am not sane," she
cried, as memory returned to her vividly.

Bathurst feared to speak. He looked at
Mary. She only leant her cheek upon her
mother's hand.

"You believe in me — you trust me — do
you not ? "

Oh yes, yes ! " she said, wildly.

Then, will you promise me to be quite
calm while I tell you — if I explain what
has happened ? You may take my word
there is nothing wrong, or I should not betaking
things so easily."

Then the mother's heart leaped up with

joy; she could not look at this strong, gentle,
benignant man without feeling his support.

Go, Mary ; leave us, my child. Colonel
Bathurst has all my confidence."

Mary rose from her knees, and cast a
grateful glance at him as she left the room.

He can do anything with her," she
thought.

"Now," said Reilly, meeting her outside
the door, " we'll let them alone. She will
understand him." They listened for a few
moments ; they heard low-spoken words.
Then Reilly said, " We will go farther off.
I trust all will be well yet."

Four or five anxious people waited in the
corridor outside that closed door. It was
a strange scene ; Kate and Vivian had crept
up, and stood submissively in the background.


Suddenly a strange sound, an hysterical
shriek, was heard. Kate started forward.

It is only Aunt Flora," said Reilly, in a
low voice.

She's locked up in mamma's room,"
whispered Adelaide to Kate ; and not another
thought was given to the poor lady, who
was wasting her strength in vain.

After perhaps ten minutes, that appeared
like an hour, Bathurst came to the door.

Kate," he said, *' only Kate."

She came forward, white and trembling.

No, no," he said ; " not like that. Look
happy."

And then they heard a sound that brought
the tears to their eyes — a quick ecstatic sob,
a burst of joyful tears.

'that's good!" said Reilly. "That's
what I wanted. Now we will just let them
have that out ; " and he insisted upon their
all going downstairs and doing " something
natural." " Nothing can be more natural
or more commonplace than eating and
drinking," he said ; " so let us all go and
pretend to it, if we can't do it."

'' Are you sure they are all right ? " asked
Adelaide, appealingly.

All is well, if we only take care' he
answered. " Miss Elmore, I am hungry."

They went into the morning-room. The
luncheon tray was laid, and the girls commenced
at once to make the room and table
as bright and cheerful as possible ; a few
touches from their hands, and the room was
a temple of comfort.

'' We all ought to drink each other's
healths, I think," said Reilly. " Miss
Elmore, I'm sure you want a stimulant.
Mary, I don't think you do, but I shall
administer one all the same."

'don't you?" she said, putting that
beautiful firm hand into his. feel my
pulse." ^

*' It is galloping I Well, of all the arch
deceivers, you would make — perhaps you
only want an excuse for the wine. It will
not exhilarate you ! "

No : it always acts as a sedative," she
said, smiling. " Having had no sleep last
night, you wil probably see me drop off my

chair after the first glass — you will know
what has happened."

We generally know what has happened
when a man goes under the table — don't we,
Seymour ? "

"Now they are coming," said Vivian,
turning pale.

Well, go on eating, my dear fellow !
Miss Elmore, drink it down ! " and Eeilly
made a most officious onslaught on the
dishes before him.

Then Bathurst came in upon the cheerful
scene with the two ladies.

Here is your chair, Mrs. Elmore. You
will forgive us for being hungry. And —
we have been invited," said Reilly, with
pronounced energy.

He had risen from his place and taken
her hand. Her eyes were brimming over
still with tears, and there was an unknown
lio;ht in them. She looked at him : she
could not speak ; but that look told him all
her joy, her gratitude, her new happy life.

He went rattling on. " You have not
had your sedative — I threatened it ! " He
put a glass of wine into her hand. It was
unsteady. He held the glass with his own
hands to her lips.

"Now then, Kate," whispered Bathurst,
we want your spirits ; they are flagging
terribly. Here, Yin, take care of her ; she's
too much for me. Young men have more
pluck than old ones."

It was the most singular comminoiinor of
nonsense and pathos that could be imagined.
The moment any one attempted to be serious,
Reilly recommended more wine.

Your theories," said Mary, " have melted
into air. This is the man who drinks next
to nothing: himself, and revenues himself
upon his friends."

On certain occasions I am revenged
upon myself," he said.

I am so glad," said Adelaide, '* to see
that remnant of pie disappear. Do you
think, colonel, you could take a few more

remains ? There are some below. I'll have
them up."

Certainly. Sitting up all night does
make a man hungry. Besides, I had no
breakfast."

Nor have I," said Adelaide. " Now,
Hannah, give the fowl to Colonel Bathurst ;
Tm too idle to carve when there is any one
to do it for me. Usually, I have all that
work."

I will relieve you," said Bathurst,
gravely.

*but where is Flora?" asked Mrs.
Elmore, suddenly.

"She. is in the retirement of her chamber,"
said Reilly.

'' Adelaide, had she not better be asked
down ? "

Oh not — not yet," entreated Bathurst.

"Well, she had a good breakfast, and
perhaps she is asleep."

Reilly ventured to doubt this suggestion
in an aside to Mary.

'' Do you always take such summary
means as those you used with her ? " asked
Mary, in an undertone.

Always. I put O'Buncous out of my
room twice last night. I put everybody out
when I am put out myself. I shall clear
the room if you dispute my word."

We don't allow private conversations at
this table," said Bathurst. " We are hereon
business — not pleasure."

I must not listen to that," said Mrs.
Elmore. " I will not listen to it. It shall
be pleasure."

CHAPTER XVIII.

A MOST CONVENTIONAL ENDING.

After that ever-memorable luncheon, at
which she had sat and listened in a sort of
wild dream, Mrs. Elmore had a long confidential
talk with Reilly, who produced
every scrap of evidence he possessed on the
subject of the accident which had ultimately
deprived Captain Elmore of his reason.

She read the letter Reilly's father had
sent with overwhelming emotion.

Kind, good man ! " she said. " He shall
not be put to the trial of a laborious journey
on my account. " I can realize now how it
happened that I deceived myself; how I
accepted the awful misfortune in its worst
light. Never, Dr. Reilly, have I felt my

incapacity as I do now ; it is like turning
the very current of one's being. Shall I
ever get accustomed to myself, do you
think ? "

I will give you just a week. After
having lived for many years under a distinct
belief, acting entirely upon it, every thought
of one's life influenced by it, it is no easy
matter to wrench away this belief, and found
entirely new ideas in accordance with
another state of things."

At this distance of time I cannot bring
back anything but my own bare impressions.
I certainly was ill at the time, and quite
unable to bear the strain. And now, oh,
believe me, so utterly is my mind perturbed
that I had quite forgotten we are bankrupt."


'* And you had better forget it. It is of
no earthly consequence. There's the plain
fact that Bathurst adores your daughter,
and that she loves him."

Yes " she murmured.

And what do you suppose is to happen ?
"Why, do you suppose other men have been
haunting your house, but for the temptations
"

How painfully aware I have been of the
temptations ! "

Well, now you have only to rejoice
at them. Better fortune never fell to any
mother's share than two such sons as
Bathurst and his nephew will be. Why,
Mrs. Elmore, those two — Seymour and Kate,
I mean — gave me my first experience in
the rare romance of love at first sight. A
thing I should have been loath to acknowledge
till I had seen the beauty and the
thing itself."

She looked at him reproachfully. " And
you did not warn me. You allowed it to
go on J

It was too late. Besides, I am going to
be frank. At that time I had formed a
conclusion of my own concerning your
eccentric life, and I did not believe in the

necessity for your daughters leading the
lives of nuns. I will not say any more,
since all that is of no consequence now ; but
I candidly think you were unwise in not
speaking out and giving your real reason
for your singular action. I assure you,
though all of us believed in your conviction,
that not one of us regarded the matter
seriously — although we all did so, and
seriously enough to please even you — when
we did know the truth."

You are all o'ood and true," she said.

"We are the best fellows that ever lived !
I have it upon our own authority."

"I am not equal to jest yet," she said.
I cannot — smile without a desire to cry."

You may indulge in the wildest desires
of your heart now, Mrs. Elmore. One more
test — it is the last. Are you prepared to
give your other daughter to me ? "

*****

"Mamma," said Mary, solemnly, coming
into the room next morning, "Aunt Flora

has confided in me that she is going ; she
cannot endure the pointed finger of scorn."

Poor Flora ! She will be the victim of
her own folly yet."

Mrs. Elmore was standing by the window
as she spoke. Suddenly she turned round.
Kate, Mary, Dell, come here ! It is
a most pathetic sight ! Do you see those
three men coming in at the gate ? They
will all have the audacity to say they have
called this morning to make inquiries after

me.

I know one who will speak the truth,"
said Adelaide, warmly, with a blush aswarm
as her words.

'' None could accuse the doctor of lacking
proper interest in his patients," said Mary,
with expressive politeness.

Isn't anybody going down ? " asked
Kate, a charming girlish confusion apparent
through her playful words. "Because rather
than be guilty of the slightest neglect, or
let it be presumed for one moment that any

member of my family should be deficient
in the smallest particular of social etiquette,
I would actually meet them myself ! "

Go, Kate ; go ! "

Yes ; we can see that you are lonofingr.
Say that mamma won't appear to-day, and
that we may come down in the course of
an hour or two."

Thank you ! I won't undertake to
entertain two ill-tempered, disappointed
men "

*' / will entertain them," said the mother,
patting Kate's cheek as she went downstairs
with her.

Adelaide and Mary lingered ; an expressive
glance nearly brought tears to thieves

How well mamma is accepting her
strange position ! " whispered Mary.

Dear mother ! " exclaimed Adelaide.
'" What efibrt she is using to prevent her
natural feeling from overcoming her ! "

Bless her 1 Kate will keep us from
being solemn. Listen to her."

VOL. m. 57

"Yes."

The laugh that rang out, like light music,
proved infectious. The colonel's deep bass
was drowning other sounds when the girls
entered, and Mrs. Elmore held her handkerchief
to her eyes.

"What have I said?" asked Kate. "I
was talking simply to keep mamma from
weeping ; and see what she has done !
What will stop her ? Fll admit that the
most beautiful thing that could have
happened has befallen us — has occurred.
I feel as though I should like to kiss everybody
; but I do restrain myself."

Don't," cried Eeilly, impulsively,
begin with me ! "

"No, no;" interrupted Bathurst, "begin
with me. I have been Vin's father since
he was six ; still I won't stand in the way
of the boy."

You needn't hesitate," said Reilly, persuasively.
"Nobody objects."
You can't answer for that."

Kate J " remonstrated Mary, with superb
disdain.

She must be jealous," whispered Kate.
'' By-the-by, how old are you. Doctor Eeilly ?
and what is your Christian name ? and
who were your godfathers and godmothers,
if you remember ? "

"And do you think our prospective relationship
gives you the right "

Oh, any amount of it ! " she said, with
the most charming impertinence. " I shall
always ask you for every information you
may be able to give, and I expect to have it.
Doctors' bills will be unheard of in my
mansion. And I shan't hesitate to ask for a
loan, if we fail commercially." Then she
clasped her hands across the colonel's arm.
By the way, colonel, do tell me, you
know — what are we to be ? AVe won't be
idle, whatever we are ; and I'm told " — vdth.
the prettiest air of embarrassment, followed
by a bold resolution — " that he, Vivian, is
going to leave the army, because I'm so

dreadfully afraid he would be killed. And
so is he, you know ; and there are plenty
who wish to fight, and we don't."

*' I deny all that," said Vivian, coming
out from the window-seat. " I have heard
everything."

'rand I really hope you were gratified.
I assure you, colonel, he had the cowardice
to admit that he didn't want to be killed."

I can understand that," said Bathurst,
and I believe you are in the right."

And look here, Kate," said Eeilly ;
when I have given you unlimited assistance
from my stores of knowledge, and saved
your doctor's bills, and so on, what are you
coins: to do in return ? "

Oh ! I will give you any information
you may require, especially in modern
science, or in the latest results of scientific
research. I will call you by your Christian
name — if it isn't one that I hate very much.
And I will sometimes ask my medical adviser
to tea."

'there I step in. I refuse to have the
medical adviser on such terms," said Vivian.
"Do you suppose you may surround yourself
with what are termed favourites ? "

We won't listen to their quarrel, though
I am sure it would be a pretty one," said
Bathurst.

Favourites! " said she; " what a horrible
word it sounds 1 I can only take the word
historically, and I have always felt I could
never have a favourite about me."

No ? " asked Vivian, innocently. " Not
even one ? "

Not one. They always fawn. No ; I
like people best who can put me down."

I should like to see one — just one —
specimen of the ' people.' One naturally
takes interest in an entirely new tribe."

"Now, if you are trying to be one of
them, I tell you candidly it's useless.
What I might put up with from other
people, I couldn't possibly endure from you.
You stand outside."

Do I ? " he asked, meekly. " I should
have expected to stand a little nearer ; but it
shall be all your way."

Not if it isn't yours," she whispered,
shyly.

He looked up. *' That accounts for the
key-note," said he, smiling. " I shall always
know when we are alone by your voice."

'' I can't help it," she said. " I positively
declare that I cannot be just civil to you ;
it's impossible ! Why, that is what one is
bound to be to every one. It is our delightful
prerogative to be uncivil to each
other," she said, in a tantalizing tone.

His answer is not on record.

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED

LONDON AND BECCLES. G., C. &> Co.
