l»<

■^ ^.w

im

t( ^-.•

5;^^.*^

M.9

ii k

^-''-n##./'wT

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/hethatwillnotwhe01olip

BY

MRS. OLIPHANT

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME I.

JTonboit
MACMILLAN AND CO.



The Right of Translation and Reproduction is Reserved

R. Clay, Sons, and Taylor,

BREAD STREET HILL,

CONTENTS,

LO J

'"' PAGE

•^i Chapter 1 1

Chapter II 19

'3 Chapter III 38

Chapter IV 55

Chapter V 76

Chapter VI 90

Chapter VII 109

Chapter VIII 123

PAGE

Chapter IX 144

Chapter X 165

Chapter XI 187

Chapter XII 204

Chapter XIII 219

Chapter XIV 235

Chapter XV. 25

CHAPTER I.

The Easter holidays were drawing near an end, and
the family at Markham Chase had fallen into a state of
existence somewhat different from its usual dignified
completeness of life. When I say that the head of the
house was Sir William Markham, once Under-Secretary
for the Colonies, once President of the Board of Trade,
and still, though in opposition, a distinguished member
of his party and an important public personage, it is
scarcely necessary to add that his house was one of the
chief houses in the county, and that 'the best people "
were to be found there, especially at those times when
fashionable gatherings take place in the country. At

VOL. I. B

Easter the party was of the best kind, sprinkled with
great personages, a party such as we should all have
liked to be asked to meet. But these fine people had
melted away ; they had gone on to other great houses,
they had got on the wing for town, where, indeed, the
Markhams themselves were going early, like most
Parliamentary people. Sir William too was away. He
was visiting the head of his party in one of the midland
counties, helping to settle the programme of enlightened
and patriotic opposition for the rest of the session, some
untoward events having deranged the system previously
decided upon. To say that Sir William's absence was a
relief would be untrue ; for though he was somewhat
punctilious and overwhelming in his orderliness he was
greatly admired by his family, and loved — as much as
was respectful and proper. But when he went away,
and when all the fine people went away, the house
without any demonstration slid smoothly, as it were
down an easy slope of transition, into a kind of nursery
life, delightful to those who were left behind. The
family consisted, to begin at the wrong end, of two
schoolboys, and two little girls who were in the hands
of a governess. But mademoiselle was away too.

There was nobody left at home but mamma and Alice
imagine the rapture of the children thus permitted
to be paramount ! There was a general dinner for
everybody at two o'clock ; and in the afternoon, as often
as not. Lady Markham herself would be persuaded to
go out to their picnic teas in the woods, and all kinds
of juvenile dissipations. The nursery meals were
superseded altogether. Old Nurse might groan, but
she dared not say a word, for was not mamma the ringleader
in everything ? There was no authority but hers
in the house, and all the servants looked on benignant.
In the evening when it was impossible to stay out any
longer, they would dance, Alice "pretending " to be the
dancing mistress, which was far better fun than real
dancing. There was no need to run away, or to keep
quiet for fear of disturbing papa. In short, a mild
Carnival was going on in the house, only dashed by the
terrible thought that in a week the holidays would be
over. In a week the boys would go back to school, the
girls to their governess. The budding woods would
become to the one and the other only a recollection, ora
sight coldly seen during the course of an orderly walk.
Then the boys would have the best of it. They would

B 2

go away among all their friends, with the delights of
boating and cricket, whereas the little girls would
relapse into blue sashes and a correct appearance at
dessert, followed, alas, in no small time, by complete
loneliness when mamma went to London, and everybody
was away.

"Don't let us think about it," said little Bell; 'rit
will be bad enough when it comes. Oh, mamma, come
and play the Temper. Alice is going to teach us.
Harry, you be my partner, you dance a great deal
the best."

This produced a cry of indignant protestation from
Mary, whom they all called Marie with a very decided
emphasis on the last syllable. " I pulled Roland about

r-

all last night," she said, "when he was thinking of
something else all the time ; it is my turn to have
Harry now."

"Don't you see," said Alice, "that Roland is much
more your size ? It doesn't do to have a little one and
a big one in the Temper. He mustn't think of anything
else. Don't you know Eol, if you don't take a
little trouble you will never learn to dance, and then no
one will ask you out when you grow up. I should not

like, for my part, when all the others went out to be
always left moping at home."

Much I'd mind," said Koland with a precocious
scorn of society. But just then the music struck up,
and the lesson began. Roland was generally thinking
of something else, but Harry threw himself into the
dance with all the simple devotion of a predestined
guardsman. That was to be a great part of his duty in
life, and he gave himself up to it dutifully. The
drawing-room was very large, partially divided by two
pillars, which supported a roof painted with clouds and
goddesses in the taste of the seventeenth century. The
outer half was but partially lighted, while in the inner
part all was bright. In the right-hand corner, behind
Lady Markham, was a third room at right angles to
this, like the transept crossing a long nave, divided
from the drawing-room by curtains half-drawn, and
faintly lighted too by a silver lamp. Thus the brilliant
interior where the children were dancing was thrown
up by two witnesses ; the girls in their light frocks, the
bright faces and curls, the abundant light which showed
the pictures on the walls, and all the details of
the furniture, were thus doubly gay and bright inconsequence.

The children moving back and forward,
Alice now here, now there, with one side and another
as necessity demanded, flitting among them in all her
softer grace of young womanhood ; and the beautiful
mother, the most beautiful of all, smiling on them from
the piano, turning round to criticise and encourage,
while her hands flashed over the keys, made the
prettiest picture. There was an abandon of innocent
gaiety in the scene, an absence of every harsh tone and
suggestion which made it perfect. Was there really no
evil and trouble in the place lighted up by the soft
pleasure of the women, the mirth of the children ?
You would have said so — but that just then, though
she did not stop smiling, Lady Markham sighed. Her
children were in pairs, Harry and Bell, Roland and
Marie — but where was Alice's brother? "Ah, my
Paul ! " she said within herself, but played on. Thus
there was one note out of harmony — one, if no more.

Almost exactly coincident with this sigh the door of
the drawing-room opened far down in the dim outer
part, and two men came in. The house was so entirely
given up to this innocent sway of youth, that there was
no reason why they should particularly note the opening

of the door. It could not be papa coming in, who was
liable to be disturbed by such a trifle as a dance, or any
serious visitor, or even the elder brother, who would,
when he was at home, occasionally frown down the
revels. Accordingly, their ears being quickened by no
alarm, no one heard the opening of the door, and the
two strangers came in unobserved. One was quite
young, not much more than a youth, slim, and, though
not very tall, looking taller than he was ; the other was
of a short, thick-set figure, neither graceful nor handsome,
who followed his companion with a mixture of
reluctance and defiance, strange enough in such a scene.
As they came towards the light this became still more
noticeable. The second stranger did not seem to have
any affinity with the place in which he found himself,
and he had the air of being angry to find himself
here. They had the full advantage of the pretty
scene as they approached, for their steps were inaudible
on the thick carpet, and the merry little
company was absorbed in its own proceedings. All
at once, however, the music ceased with a kind of
shriek on a high note, the dancers, alarmed, stopped
short, and Lady Markham left the piano and flew

forward, holding out her hands. 'paul!" she cried,
^'Paul!"

Paul ! " cried Alice, following her mother, and
'paul!" in various tones echoed the little girls and
boys. The strange man who had come in with Paul
had time to remark them while the other was receiving
the greeting of his mother and sister.

I thought some one would be sure to come and
spoil the fun," Poland said, taking the opportunity to
get far from the little ring of performers.

Now we shall get no more good of mamma," said
his little partner with a disconsolate face ; but what
was this to the joy of the mother and elder sister,
whose faces where lighted up with a sudden happiness,
infinitely warmer than the innocent pleasure which the
new-comers had disturbed !

We thought you were not coming," said Lad
Markham. " Oh,* Paul, you have been hard upon us
not to write ! but no, my dear, I am not going to
scold you. I am too happy to have you at last. Have
you had any dinner ? Alice, ring the bell, and order
something for your brother."

*' You do not see that I am not alone, mother," said

Paul, with a tone so solemn that both the ladies were
startled, not knowing what it could mean. " I have
brought with me a very particular friend, who I hope
will stay for a little." It was then for the first time
that Lady Markham perceived her son's companion.

You know," she said, " how glad I always am to
see your friends ; but you .must tell me his name," she
added with a smile, holding out her hand, " this is a
very imperfect introduction." The sweetness of her
look as she turned to the stranger dazzled him. There
was a moment's confusion on the part of both the menas
this beautiful, smiling lady put her delicate fingers
into a rough hand brought forth with a certain reluctance
and shamefacedness. She too changed colour
a little and a look of surprise came into her face on a
closer view of her son's friend.

I thank you for your kind reception of me, my
lady," said the man ; '' but Markham, you had better
explain to your mother who I am. I go nowhere
under false pretences."

Now that the light was full upon him the difference
showed all the more. His rough looks, his dress, not
shabby, still less dirty, but uncared for, his coarse boots,

the general aspect of his figure, which was neither
disorderly nor disreputable, but unquestionably not
that of a gentleman, seemed to communicate a sort of
electric shock to the little company. The boys pressed
forward with a simultaneous idea that Paul was in
custody for something or other, and heroic intentions
of pouncing upon the intruder and rescuing their
brother. Alice gazed at him appalled, with some
fancy of the same kind passing through her mind.
Only Lady Markham, though she had grown pale,
preserved her composure.

I cannot be anything but glad to see a friend of
my boy's," she said, faltering slightly ; but there
passed through her mind a silent thanksgiving : Thank
Heaven, his father was away !

'' This is Spears," said Paul, curtly. '' You needn't
be so fastidious ; my mother is not that sort. Mamma,
this is a man to whom I owe more than all the dons
put together. You ought to be proud to see him in
your house. No, we haven't dined, and we've had a
long journey. Let them get us something as soon as
possible. Hallo, Brown, put this gentleman's things
into the greenroom — I suppose we may have the

greenroom ? — and tell Mrs. Fry, as soon as she can
manage it, to send us something to eat."

I took the liberty to order something directly, as
soon as I saw Mr. Markham, my lady," said Brown.
There was a look of mingled benevolence and anxiety
in this functionary's face. He was glad to see his
young master come back, but he did not conceal his
concern at the company in which he was. *' The
greenroom, my lady ? "

The greenroom is quite a small room," said Lady
Markham, faltering. She looked at the stranger with
a doubtful air. He was not a boy to be put into such
a small place ; but then, on the other hand

A small room is no matter to me," said Spears.
'i'm not used to anything different. In such a
career as mine we're glad to get shelter anywhere."
He laughed as he spoke of his career. What was his
career? He looked as if he expected her to know.
Lady Markham concealed her perplexity by a little
bow, and turned to Brown, who was waiting her orders
with a half-ludicrous sentimental air of sympathy with
his mistress.

"Put Mr. Spears into the chintz-room in the east

wing ; it is a better room' she said. Then she led the
Away into the brightness, on the verge of which they
had been standing. '' It is almost too warm for fires'
she said, " but you may like to come nearer to it after
your journey. Where have you come from, Paul ?
Children, now that you have seen Paul, you had better
go up stairs to bed."

I knew how it would be' said Marie ; " no one
cares for us now Paul has come."

No one will so much as see mamma as long as he
is here," said Bell ; while the boys, withdrawing reluctantly,
stopping to whisper, and throw black looks
back upon the stranger as they strolled away, wondered
almost audibly what sort of fellow Paul had got with
him. ''A bailiff, / think," said Roland; 'just the
sort of fellow that comes after the men in Harry
Lorrequer'' " Or he's done something, and it's a turnkey,"
said Harry. Elder brothers were in the way of
getting into trouble in the works with which these
young heroes were familiar. Thus at Paul's appearance
the pretty picture broke up and faded away like a
phantasmagoria. Childhood and innocence disappeared,
and care came back. The aspect of the very room

changed where now there was the young man,
peremptory and authoritative, and the two ladies
tremulous with the happiness of his return, yet watching
him with breathless anxiety, reading, or trying to
read, every change in his face.

Your last letter was from Yorkshire, Paul ; what
have you been doing ? We tried to make out, but v,^e
could not. You are so unsatisfactory, you boys ; you
never will give details of anything. Did you go to
see the Tormentors ? or were you "

'' I was nowhere — that you know of, at least," said
Paul. '' I was with Spears, holding meetings. We
went from one end of the county to another. I can't
tell you where we went ; it would be harder to say
where we didn't go."

Lady Markham looked at her son's companion with
a bewildered smile. " Mr. Spears, then, Paul — I
suppose — knows a great many people in Yorkshire ? "
She had not a notion what was meant by holding meetings.
He did not indeed look much like a man who
would know many '' people " in Yorkshire. " People "
meant not the country folks, you may be sure, but the
great county people, the Yorkshire gentry, the only

class which to Lady Markham-told in a county. This
was no fault of hers, but only because the others were
beyond her range of vision. No, he did not look like
a man who would know many people in Yorkshire ;
but, short of that, what could Paul mean ? Lady
Markham did not know what significance there really
was in what Paul said.

We saw a great many Yorkshire people ; but I go
where I am called," said the stranger, " not only where
there are people I know."

Seen in the full light, there was nothing repulsive
or disagreeable about the man. He looked like one of
the men who came now and then to the Chase to put
something in order ; some clock that had gone wrong,
or something about the decorations. He sat a little
uneasily upon the sofa where he had placed himself.
His speech was unembarrassed, but nothing else about
him. He was out of place. To see him there in the
midst of this family it was as if he had dropped from
another planet ; he did not seem to belong to the same
species. But his speech was easy enough, though
nothing else; he had a fine melodious voice, and he
seemed to like to use it.

I hope we did good work there," he said ; " not
perhaps of a kind that you would admire, my lady :
but from my point of view, excellent work ; and Markham,
though he is a young aristocrat, was of great use.
An enthusiast is always a valuable auxiliary. I do not
know when I have made a more successful round. It
has taken us just a week."

Lady Markham bowed in bewildered assent, not
knowing what to say. She smiled out of sheer politeness,
attending to every word, though she could not
form an idea of what he meant. She did not care,
indeed, to know what Mr. Spears had been doing. It
was her son she wanted to know about ; but the laws of
politeness were imperative. Meanwhile Paul walked
about uneasily, placing himself for one moment in front
of the expiring fire, then moving from spot to spot,
looking intently at some picture or knick-knack he
had seen a thousand times before. "You have been
getting some new china," he burst forth, after various
suppressed signs of impatience. Now that he had
brought his friend here, he did not seem desirous that
his mother should attend so closely to all he said.

New china ! my dear boy, you have known it all

your life' said Lady Markham. "We have only shifted
it from one cabinet to another. It is the same old
Sevres. Perhaps Mr. Spears takes an interest in china.
Show it to him, Paul. It is a valuable cup ; it is
supposed to have been made for Madame du Barry."

"No," said the strange visitor, ''I know nothing
about it. What makes it valuable, I wonder ? I don't
understand putting such a price on things that if you
were to let them drop would be smashed into a
thousand pieces."

'' But you must not let it drop," said Lady Markham,
with a little alarm. '' I daresay it is quite a fictitious
kind of value. Still, I like my Shares. It is a very
pretty ornament."

"Just so," said Spears, with a certain patronage in
his tone. " In a luxurious house like this decoration is
necessary — and I don't say that it has not a very good
effect. But in the places I am used to, a common
teacup would be far more useful. Still, I do not deny
the grace of ornament," he added, with a smile. " Life
can go on very well without it, but it would be stupid
to go against it here."

Lady Markham once more made him a little bow.

He spoke as if he intended a compliment; but what
did the man mean ? And Paul set down the cup
roughly as if he would have liked to bring the whole
Magerc to the ground. Altogether it was a confusion,
almost a pain, to have him here and yet not to have
him. There were so many things she wanted to ask
and to know. She gave her son a wistful look. But
just then Brown came in to say that the hasty meal
which had been prepared was ready. Lady Markham
rose. She put out her hand to take her son's
arm.

"were you coming, mother? Don't take so much
trouble ; it would only be a bore to you," said Paul.
'spears and I Avill get on very well by ourselves
without bothering you."

The tears started into Lady Markham's eyes. She
turned a wondering look upon Alice as Paul and his
companion went away down the dim length of the
room, disappearing from them. Alice had been hovering
about her brother, trying to say a word to him now
and then, but Paul was too much intent upon what was
going on between his friend and his mother to pay any
attention. The look of dismay and Wonder and blank

VOL. L C

disappointment that passed between them could not
be described. Had Paul been alone they would both
have gone with him to the dining-room : they would
have sent away Brown and waited on him — his mother
carving for him, Alice flitting about to get anything he
wanted. They would have asked a hundred questions,
and given him a hundred details of home events, and
made the whole atmosphere bright with tender happiness
and soft laughter and love. Now they stood and
looked at each other listening to the footsteps as they
crossed the hall.

It is all this man whom he has brought with him,"
Lady Markham said.

The children were all open-eyed and open-mouthed
next morning to see Paul's friend. As for the boys,
they did not feel at all sure what might have been
o-oino' on during the nisfht, or whether Paul's friend
would be visible in the morning. "It is money those
sort of fellows want," Roland said; and then the question
arose whether papa being away mamma would
have money enough to satisfy such a claimant. The
little girls besieged Alice with questions. Who was
that strange man? He looked exactly like the man
that came to wind the clocks.

He is a friend of Paul's ; hush — hush ! " said
Alice ; " you must all be very porte and not stare
at him."

But how can he be a friend ? " demanded Bell.

c 2

He is a bailiff," said Roland. " In Hams Lorrequer
there is somebody exactly like that."

Oh, hush children, for mamma's sake ! he will come
in directly. He is Paul's friend. Grown-up people do
not go by appearances like children. Paul says he has
done him more good than all the dons. Most likely
he is a very learned man — or an author or something,"
Alice said.

'' Oh, an author ! they're a queer lot," said Harry,
with relief At all events, an author was less objectionable
than a bailiff.

Lady Markham came in before these questions were
over. She was not all so bright as usual. Though she
smiled upon them as they all came round her, it was
not her own natural smile ; and she had a cap on, a
thing which she only wore when she was out of sorts, a
kind of signal of distress. The family were divided as
to this cap. Some of them were in favour of it, some
against it. The little girls thought it made their
mother look old, whereas Alice was of opinion that it
imparted dignity to her appearance.

I don't want to have a mother past as young
and a great deal prettier than I am," she said.

But Bell and Marie called out, ''Oh, that od

lois

cap !

*' Why should mamma, only because she is mamma,
cover up all her pretty hair ? It is such pretty hair !
mine is just the same colour," said Bell, who was
inclined to vanity.

Lady Markham smiled upon this charming nonsense,
but it was not her own smile. " Has any one seen
Paul this morning ? " she said, With a sigh.

What a change there was in everything ' Paul had
not come into his mother's dressing-room last night to
talk over all he had been doing and meant to do, as
had always been his habit when he came home. And
when Lady Markham went to her boy's room on her
way doAAm stairs, thinking of nothing but the little
laughing lecture she was wont to administer on finding
him not yet out of bed — which was the usual state
of affairs — what was hers surprise to find Paul out of
his room, already dressed, and "gone for a walk."
Brown meeting her in the hall told her this with a
subdued voice and mingled wonder and sympathy in
his face,

'' Mr. Markham is turning over a new leaf, my

lady," he said, with the license of an old servant,
who had seen Paul born, so to speak.

I am very glad to hear it — it is so much
better for him," Lady Markham said. So it was,
no doubt; but this change, even of the bad habit
which was familiar to her, gave her a little shock.
Therefore it was with a failure of her usual bright
cheerfulness that she took her place at the breakfast-table.


Has any one seen Paul ? " she said.

Oh, fancy seeing Paul already ! " cried the little
crirls. " He will come in when we have all done
breakfast, and Brown will bring him everything quite
hot, after we have waited and waited. Brown makes
dreadful favourites, don't you think so ? He does not
mind what he does for Paul."

Paul has gone out for a walk," said Lady Markham,
not without solemnity.

There was a cry of astonishment all round the table.
England gave Harry a little nod of intelligence. ('' He
will have found-it was no use, and he will have taken
him away") Alice had looked up into her mother's
face with consternation ; but as she was Paul's

unhesitating partisan through everything, she recovered
herself at once.

"He must be showing Mr. Spears the Park," she
said. " What a good thing if he will take to getting
up early."

And nobody could say anything against that. Getting
up early was a virtue in which Paul had been sadly
deficient, as everybody was aware.

However, this was long enough to have been
occupied about Paul, and the children, tired of the
subject, had already plunged into their own affairs,
when their elder brother suddenly appeared, ushering
in Mr. Spears — who in the morning light looked more
out of place than ever — through the great bow window
which opened on the lawn. The stranger had his hat
in his hand, and made an awkward sort of bow.

I am afraid it is a liberty, my lady," he said,
stepping in with shoes all wet from the dewy grass.
He did not know what to do with his hat, and ended
by putting it under his chair when he got to the table.
But by that time his embarrassment had disappeared,
and his face grew benignant as he looked round, before
sitting down, upon the girls and boys. " The sight of

children is a benediction' he said with that softening
which mothers know by instinct. He was very
like the man who wound up the clocks, who was a
most respectable country tradesman ; but this look
reconciled Lady Markham to him more than anything
else which had happened yet.

'' You are fond of children ? " she said.

*' I ought to be. I have had six of my own ; but
they had hard times after my wife died, and there are
but three left."

Ah ! " Lady Markham cried out of the depths of
her heart. She looked round upon her own children,
and the tears came to her eyes. '' I am very, very
sorry. There can be nothing in the world so dreadful."

'' It is a pull," said her visitor. " Yes, it is a pull.
A man does not know what it is till he has gone
through it. Often you think, poor things, it is better
for them ; you would never have been able to rear
them as you ought ; but when it comes it is a pull ;
though you may have no bread to give them, it is hard
to part with them."

He had begun to eat his breakfast very composedly,
notwithstanding this. The way he held his fork was a

wonder to Marie who had but recently acquired full
mastery of her o\vn, and Harry had watched with great
gravity and interest the passage of the stranger's knife
to his mouth. But Lady Markham no longer noticed
these things. She forgot that he was like the man
that wound up the clocks.

I always feel' she said, " when I hear of losses
like yours as if I ought to go down on my knees
and beg your pardon for being so much better off —
thank God!"

Spears looked up at her suddenly, putting down his
knife and fork. Here was a strange thing ; while all
the rest were so conscious of the difference between
them, the two chief persons had forgotten it. But he
did not make any immediate reply. He looked at her
wondering, grateful, understanding; and that piece of
silent conversation was more effective than anything
that could be said.

There are not many people that feel like you," he
said at length ; " those that are better off than their
neighbours are apt to look as if it sprang from some
virtue of theirs. They are more likely to crow over
us than to beg our pardon. And just as well too,

Markham," he said with a laugh. " If they were all
like your mother, they'd cut the ground from under
our feet."

I do not see that," said Paul. 'the principle is
unaltered, however well-intentioned those may be who
are in the position of unjust superiority; that makes
no difference so far as I can see."

All the Markham family were roused to attention
when Paul spoke. The children looked at him,
stopping their private chatter, and Lady Markham casta
wondering, reproachful look at her boy. Was she ina
position of unjust superiority because all her
children were living, and another parent had lost the
half of his? She felt wounded by this strange
speech.

Ah," said Spears, with a twinkle in his eyes,
there is nothing like a recruit from the other side

for going the whole . You have a beautiful family,

and you have a beautiful park, my lady. You have
got a great deal more than the most of your fellow-creatures
have. I can do nothing but stand and
wonder at it for my part. Everything you see, everything
you touch, is beautiful. You ought to be very

J

sorry for all the others, so many of them, who are
not so well off as you."

Indeed I am, Mr. Spears," said Lady Markham,
simply ; but then she added, after a pause, " for
those who have not the things that give happiness ;
but there are a great many things that are of no
importance to happiness. Everybody, of course, cannot
have a beautiful park, as you say, and a nice

house ; but "

"Why not?"

'' ^Hiy not?" She looked up surprised. ''Ah, I
see ! You are all for equality, like Paul."

Like Pmd ! I taught him everything he knows.
He had not an idea on the subject before I opened his
eyes to the horrible injustice of the present state of
affairs. He is my disciple, and I am his master.
Now you know who I am. I cannot be in any house
under false pretences," said Spears, pushing his chair
a little away from the table.

The children all looked at him aghast ; and he had
himself the air of having made a great and dangerous
revelation, probably to be followed by his dismissal
from the house as a dangerous person. '' Now you

know who I am." The climax was melodramatic in
its form ; but there was nothing theatrical in it so far
as the revolutionary was concerned. He was perfectly
sincere. He felt the importance of his own position ;
and feeling it, could entertain no doubt as to the knowledge
of him as their fullest enemy, and the horror of
him which must be felt in every house like this
throughout the country. He had not wished to come ;
he had been disappointed to find that Sir William was
not there, who (he felt sure) would have refused him
admittance. And he would not take advantage of my
lady, who was certainly a woman to whom any man
might submit himself Had she rung the bell instantly
for her menials to turn him out ; had she expressed
her horror at the contamination which her family had
sustained by sitting down at the same table with him
he would not have been surprised. He pushed his
chair gently from the table, and waited to see what she
would order; though he was a revolutionary, he had
unbounded respect for the mistress of this house.

Lady Markham looked at her strange visitor with
bewildered eyes. She made a rapid telegraphic appeal
to her son for explanation. " Now you know who I

am," but she did not in the least know who he was.
He was famous enough in his way, and he thought
himself more famous than he was ; but Lady Markham
had never heard of him. When she saw that no
assistance could be afforded her by her children in this
dilemma, she collected her thoughts with a desperate
effort. She was one of the women who would rather
die than be rude to any one. To speak to a man at her
own table, under her own roof, with less than the most
perfect courtesy was impossible to her. Besides, she
did not really understand what he meant. She was
annoyed and affronted that he should speak of her boy
as Paul, but in the confusion of the moment that was
all her mind took up, and as for openly resenting
that how was it possible ? One time or another no
doubt she would give the stranger a little return blow,
a reminder of his over-familiarity, when it could be
done with perfect politeness, but not now. She was
startled by his solemnity ; and it was very clear that
he was not a man of what she called " our own
class," but Lady Markham's high breeding was above
all pettiness.

Was it really you," she said, '' dio taught my son

(she would not call him Paul again) all the nonsense
he has been talking to us ? Yes, indeed it is great
nonsense, Mr. Spears — you must let me say so. Weare
doing no one injustice. My husband says all young
men are Radicals one time or other; but I should
have expected you, a man with children of your own, to
know better. Oh no, I don't want to argue. I am not
clever enough for that. Let me give you another cup
of tea."

The demagogue stared at the beautiful lady as if he
could not believe his ears. Partly he was humiliated,
seeing that she was not in the least afraid of him, and
even did not realise at all what was the terrible disclosure
he had made. This gave him that sense of
having made himself ridiculous which is so intolerable
to those who are unaccustomed to the world. He casta
jealous look round the table to see if he could detect
any laughter.

Paul caught him by the arm at this critical
moment.

Eat your breakfast," he said, in a wrathful
undertone. '' Do you hear, Spears ? Do you think she
knows ? Have some of this fish, for Heaven's sake,

and shut up. What on earth do they care if you
taught me or not ? Do you think she goes into all
that ? "

Nobody heard this but Harry, who was listening both
with ears and eyes. And Mr. Spears returned to his
breakfast as commanded. He was abashed, and he was
astonished, but still he made a very hearty meal when
all was said. And by and by his spirit rose again ; in
the eyes of this lady, who had so completely got the
better of him, far more than if she had turned him
out, there was no way of redeeming himself, but by
"bringing her over." That would be a triumph. He
immediately addressed himself to it with every art at
his command. He had an extremely prepossessing and
melodious voice, and he spoke with what the ladies
thought a kind of old-fashioned grace. The somewhat
stiff, stilted phraseology of the self-educated has always
more or less a whiff of the formality of an older age.
And he made observations which interested them, in
spite of themselves. Lady Markham was very polite to
her son's friend.

Wien the children reminded her of her promise to
go with them on a long-planned expedition into the

woods, she put them off. 'you know I cannot leave
when I have visitors," she said.

Perhaps Mr. Spears would come too ? " said Alice.
And before he knew what was going to happen, he
found himself pushed into the front seat of the carriage,
which was like a Noah's ark, with hampers and children.
Never had this man of the people, this popular orator,
occupied so strange a position. He had never known
before what it was to roll luxuriously along the roads,
to share in the ease and dignity of wealth. He took
notes of it, like a man in a foreign country, and observed
keenly all that took place — the manners of the
people for whom the world was made : that was how
they seemed to take it. The world was made for them.
It Alas not a subject of arrogant satisfaction on their
part, or pride in their universal dominion ; they took it
quite easily, gently, as a matter of course. My lady
gave her orders with a gentle confidence in the obedience
of everybody she addressed. It was all wonderful
to the man vf ho knew only the other side of the question.
He asked about everything — the game (with an eye to
the poachers) ; the great extent of the park (as bearing
upon one of his favourite points — the abstraction from

I

the public of so many acres which might have cultivation)
; and was answered with a perfect absence of all
sense of guilt, which was very strange to him. They
did not know they were doing wrong, these rich people.
They told him all about it, simply, smilingly, as if it
was the most natural thing in the world. All this
went against his preconceived notions, just as "the
manners of a foreign country so often go against the
idea you have formed of them. He had all his senses
keenly about him, and yet everything was so novel and
surprising that he felt scarcely able to trust to his own
impressions. It was the strangest position surely in
which a popular agitator, a preacher of democracy and
revolution, a special pleader against the rich, ever was.

'ewe have not many neighbours," Lady Markham
said. " That is Lord Westland's property beyond the
church. You can see Westland Towers from the turn
of the road. And there are the Trevorss on the other
side of the parish."

'' A whole parish," said Spears, '' divided amongst
three families."

'' The Trevorss have very little," said Lady Markham.
Sir William is the chief proprietor. But they are

VOL. I. D

a very good family. Admiral Trevor — you must have
heard of him — was once a popular hero. He did a
great many daring things I have heard, but fame
gets forgotten like other things. He lives very quietly
now, an old man "

'' The oldest man that ever was," said Alice. " Fancy,
it was in Napoleon's time he was so famous — the great
Napoleon — before even old people were born."

"Before I was born," said Lady Markham, with her
soft laugh ; " that is something like saying before the
Flood. Then there is the vicar, of course, and a few
people of less importance. It is easy to go over a
country neighbourhood."

"And what do you call the people in all these
cottages, my lady ? The world was not made for them
as it is for you. These would be the neighbours I
should think of. When I hear of your three families
in the parish, I wonder what all these roofs mean. Are
they not flesh and blood too ? Don't they live and have
things happen to them as well as you fine folks ? If
they were cleared away out of the place, what would
become of your parish, my lady ? Could you get on all
the same without them that you make no account of

It

I

them ? These are the houses where I should feel at
home, among the poor cottagers whom you don't even
know about "

Mamma — not know about them ! " cried Alice.
Why, it is our own village ! Do you think because it
is a mile away that makes any difference ? Why, it is
• our own village, Mr. Spears."

"I dare say," said the revolutionary — 'your own
village. Perhaps they pay you rent for suffering them
to live there, and allowing them to do all the work of
the world and keep everything going "

Hush, Alice," said Lady Markham. " Perhaps Mr.
Spears does not understand a little country village.
They are often not at all fond of doing the work, and
they do not much like to pay their rent ; but we know
them very well for that matter. I could tell you all
about them, every house. To be sure we have not the
same kind of intercourse with them as with our
equals."

"Ah, that is the whole question, Lady Markham.
Pardon me ; I am not your equal, and yet you let me
sit in your fine carriage and talk to you. No, I am nota
bit humble ; I feel myself the equal of any man.

D 2

There is nobody in the world whom I will acknowledge
my superior — in my dignity as a man."

Lady Markham made him a little bow ; it was her
way when she did not know what to say. '' One does
not need to be told," she said, '' that you are a very
superior man, Mr. Spears ; quite equal to talk with
anybody, were it the greatest philosopher." Here she
stopped short in a little embarrassment. '' But we are
all very simple, ignorant country people," she added
with a smile, " about here."

'' Ah, you are very clever, my lady. You beg the
question."

''Do I ? " said Lady Markham. " I wonder what
that means. But now we are just arriving at the place
for the pic-nic. When my boy comes up, I will make
him take you to the most beautiful point of view.
There is a waterfall which we are very proud of, and

now when everything is in the first green of spring •

Paul ! " she cried, " come and get your directions. I
want Mr. Spears to see the view."

"Your mother is something I don't understand
Markham," said the demagogue. " I never came across
that kind of woman before."

Didn't you ? " said Paul. He was ready to be
taught on other points, but not on this. '' You see the
bondage Ave live in," said the young man. " Luxury,
people call it ; to me it seems slavery. Oh, to be free
of all this folly and finery — to feel one's self a man
among men, earning one's bread, shaping one's own
Hfe "

''Ah ! " said Spears, drawing a long breath. He

could not be unaffected by what was an echo of his
own eloquence. 'but there's a deal to say, too,
for the other side."

The Markhams of the Chase were one of the most
important families in the county, as has been already
intimated. They owned three parts at least of the
parish (for my Lord Westland was a new man, who had
bought, not inherited, that property, and all that the
Trevorss had was their 'house and park and a few fields
that did not count), and a great deal more besides. It
was generally said that they had risen into importance
as a family only at the time of the Commonwealth, but
their pedigree extended far beyond that. In the former
generation the family had not been fortunate. Sir
William Markham himself had been born the third son,
and in his youth he had been absent from England, and
had '' knocked about the world," as people say, in a
way which had no doubt enlarged his experiences and

made him perhaps more fit for the responsibilities of
public life in which he had been so fortunate. He had
succeeded, on the death of his second brother, when he
was over thirty, and it was not till ten years later that
he married.

It had occasioned some surprise in the neighbourhood
when Isabel Fleetwood, who was a great beauty, and
had made quite a sensation, it was said, in her first
season, accepted the middle-aged and extremely sedate
and serious little baronet. He was not handsome ; — he
had no sympathy with the gay life into which she had
been plunged by her brother and aunt, who were her
only guardians ; and the world, always pleased to believe
that interested motives are involved, and fond of prophesying
badly of a marriage, concluded almost with
one voice that it was the ambitious aunt and the
extravagant brother who had made it up, and that
the poor girl was sacrificed. But this was as great a
mistake as the world ever made. Perhaps it would be
wrong to assert that the marriage was a romantic one,
and that the beautiful girl under twenty was passionately
in love with her little statesman. Perhaps her modest,
tranquil disposition, her dislike to the monotonous

whirl of fashion, and her sense of the precarious tenure
by which she held her position in her brother's house,
her only home (he married immediately after she did,
as everybody knows, and did not conceal the fact that it
was necessary to get rid of his sister before venturing
upon a wife), had something to do with her decision.
But she had never shown any signs of regretting it
through all these years. Sir William was neither young
nor handsome, but he was a man whose opinion was
listened to wherever it was given, whose voice commanded
the attention of the country, whose name was
known over Europe. And this in some cases affects a
young imagination as much as the finest moustache in
the world, or the most distinguished stature. She was
not clever, but she was a woman of that gracious nature,
courteous, tolerant, and sympathetic, which is more
perfect without the sharpness of intellect. Nothing
that was unkind was possible to her. She had no
particular imagination in the common sense of the word,
but she had a higher gift, the moral imagination (so to
speak) which gave her an exquisite understanding of
other people's feelings, and made her incapable of any
injury to them. This made Lady Markham the very

ideal of a great lady. As for Sir William, he held his
place more firmly than ever with such a partner by his
side. They were the happiest couple in the county, as
well as the most important. Not only did you meet
• the best of company at their house, but the sight of a
husband and wife so devoted to each other was o^ood for
you, everybody said. They were proud of each other,
as they had good reason to be : she listened to him as
to an oracle, and his tender consideration for her was an
example to all. Everything had gone well with the
Markhams. They were rich, and naturally inheritances
and legacies and successions of all kinds fell to them,
which made them richer. Their children were the
healthiest and most thriving children that had ever
been seen. Alice promised to be almost as pretty asher
mother, and Paul was not short like Sir William.
Thus fortune had favoured them on every side.

About a year before the date of this history, a cloudlike
that famous cloud no bigger than a man's hand
had floated up upon the clear sky, almost too clear in
unshadowed well-being, over this prosperous house. It
was nothing — a thing which most people would have
laughed at, a mere reminder that even the Markhams

were not to have everything their own way. It was
that Paul, a model boy at school, had suddenly become
wild ? Oh no ! not wild, that was not the word :
indeed it was difficult to know what word to use. He
had begun as soon as he went to Oxford by having
opinions. He had not been six months there before he
was known at the Union and had plunged into all the
politico-philosophical questions afloat in that atmosphere
of the absolute. This was nothing but what ought to
have been in the son of a statesman ; but unfortunately
to everything his father believed and trusted, Paul took
the opposite side. He took up the highest republican
principles, the most absolute views as to the equality of
the human race. That, though it somewhat horrified
his mother and sister, produced at first very little effect
upon Sir William, who laughed and informed his family
that Johnny Shooter had held precisely the same
views when he was an undergraduate, though now he
was Lord Righteous's secretary and as sound a politician
as it was possible to desire. " It is the same as the
measles," Sir William said. Paul, however, had a
theoretical mind and on obstinate temper: he was
too logical for life. As soon as he had come to the

conviction that all men are equal, he took the further
step which costs a great deal more, and decided that
there ought to be equality of property as well as of
right. This made Sir William half angry, though it
amused him. He bade his son not to be a fool.

What would become of you," he cried, "you young
idiot ! " using language not at all parliamentary, '' if
there was a re-distribution of property ? How much
do you think would fall to your share ? "

'' As much as I have any right to, sir," the young
revolutionary said.

And then Lady Markham interposed, and assured
Paul that he was talking nonsense.

"Why should you take such foolish notions into
your head ? No one of your family ever did so before.
And can you really imagine," she asked with gentle
severity, " that you are a better judge of such matters
than your papa?" but neither did this powerful
argument convince the unreasonable boy.

There was one member of the family, however, who
was affected by Paul's arguments, and this was his
sister. Alice was dazzled at once by the magnanimity
of his sentiments and by his eloquence. Altogether

independent of this, she was, as a matter of course, his
natural partisan and defender, always standing up for
Paul, with a noble disregard for the right or the wrong
in question, which is a characteristic of girls and sisters.
(For, Alice justly argued, if he was wrong, he had all
the more need for some one to stand up for him.) Butin
this case her mind was, if not convinced, at least
dazzled and imposed upon by the grandeur of this new
way of thinking. She would not admit it to Paul, and
indeed maintained with him - a pretence of serious
opposition, arguing very feebly for the most part, though
sometimes dealing now and then, all unaware of its
weight, a sudden blow under which the adversary
staggered, and in the success of which Alice rejoiced
without seeing very clearly how it was that one argument
should tell so much more than another. But at
heart she was profoundly touched by the generosity and
nobleness of her brother's views. Such a sweeping
revolution would not be pleasant. To be brought down
from her own delightful place, to be no longer Miss
Markham of the Chase, but only a little girl on the
same level with her maid, was a thing she could not
endure to think of, and which brought the indignant

blood to her cheek. " That you could never do," she
cried; 'you might take away our money, but you
could never make gentlefolk into common people."
This was one of the hits which found out a joint in
Paul's armour, but unaware of that Alice went on still
more confidently. "You know good blood makes all
the difference — you cannot take that from us. People
who have ancestors as we have can never be made into
nobodies." At which her brother scoffed and laughed,
and bade her remember that old Brown had quite as
many grandfathers as they, and was descended from
Adam as certainly as the Queen was. "And Harry
Fleetwood," said this defiler of his own nest, "do you
call him an example of the excellence of blood?"
Poor Alice was inclined to cry when her disreputable
cousin was thus thrown in her teeth. She clung to her
flag and fought for her caste like a little heroine. But
when Paul was gone, she owned to her mother that
there was a great deal in what he said. It was very
noble as Paul stated it. When he asked with lofty
indignation, " What have I done to deserve all I have
got ? I have taken the trouble to be born," — Alice felt
in her heart that there was no answer to this plea.

'' My dear," Lady Markham said, " think how foolish it
all is ; does he know better than your papa and all the
men that have considered the subject before him ? "

It may be silly," said Alice, changing her argument,
'' but it is very different from other young men. They
all seem to think the world was made for them ; and
if Paul is wrong, it is finer than being right like
that:'

Thisowas a fanciful plea which moved Lady Markham,
and to which she could make no reply. She shook her
head and repeated her remark about Paul's presumption
in thinking himself wiser than papa ; but she too was
affected by the generosity and magnanimity which
seemed the leading influences of the creed so warmly
adopted by her boy.

This was the state of semi warfare, not serious enough
to have caused real pain, but yet a little disquieting in
respect to Paul's future, when the event occurred which
has been recorded in the two last chapters. The ladies
saw more of the strange companion whom Paul had
brought with him than they generally saw of ordinary
visitors. He had no letters to write, nor calls to make,
nor private occupations of any kind; neither had he

I

sufficient understanding of the rules of society to know
that guests are expected to amuse themselves, and not
to oppress with their perpetual presence the ladies of
the house. What he wanted, being as it were a traveller
in an undiscovered country, was to study the ways of
the house, and the women of it, and the manner of
their life. And as he was so original as not to know
anybody they knew, Lady Markham in her politeness
was led to invent all kinds of subjects of conversation,
upon which, without exception, Mr. Spears found something
to say. He assailed them on all points with the
utmost frankness. He sat (on the edge of his chair)
and watched Lady Markham at her worsted work, and
found fault even with that.

"You spend a great deal of time over it," he said;
and what do you mean to do with it ? "

This was the second evening, and they had become
quite accustomed to Spears.

I am not quite sure, to tell the truth. It is for a
cushion — probably I shall put it on that sofa, or it will
do for a window-seat somewhere, or "

There are three cushions on the sofa already, and
all the window-seats are as soft as down-beds. You are

doing something that will not be of any use when it is
done, and that, excuse me, is not very pretty, and takes
up a great deal of your time."

Show Mr. Spears your work, Alice ; he will like
that better. Everybody is severe now upon these poor
abandoned Berlin wools. Now, Mr. Spears, that pattern
came from the School of Art Needlework. It was
drawn by somebody very distinguished indeed. It is
intended to elevate the mind as well as to occupy the
fingers. You cannot but be pleased with that."

What is it for ? " said the critic.

I — scarcely know ; for a screen I think — part of a
screen you know, Mr. Spears, to keep off the fire "

'' Ah ! — no, I don't know. Among the people I
belong to. Miss Alice, there is no need of expedients to
keep off the fire. Sometimes there is no fire to have
even a look at. I've known poor creatures wandering
into the streets when the gas was lighted, because it
was warm there. The gas in the shop windows was all
the fire they had a chance of. Did you ever see a little
wretched room all black of a winter's night ? Black —
there's no blackness like that; it is blacker than the
crape you all put on when your people die."

No ; she has never seen it' cried Lady Markham.
I did once in our village at home before I was married.
Oh, Mr. Spears, I know ! it made me cold for years
after. No, thank God, Alice has never seen it. We

take care there is nothing like that here . But,"

she added after a pause — " I don't like to say anything
unkind ; but, Mr. Spears, after all, it was their own
fault."

"Ah, my lady ! you that make screens to keep off
the fire, do you never do what is wrong ? you that are
cushioned at every angle, and never know what a hard
seat is, or a hard bed, or a harsh look, or a nip of frost,
or a pinch of hunger — do you always do what is right ?
You ought to. You are like angels, with everything
beautiful round you ; and you look like angels, and you
ought to be what they are said to be ; but, if instead of
all this pretty nonsense you had misery and toil around
you, and ugliness, and discord, and quarrelling, would it
be wonderful if you went astray sometimes, and gave
the other people, the warm, wealthy, well-clothed people,
reason to say it was your own fault ? Great God ! "
cried the orator, jumping up. "Why should we be
sitting here in this luxury, with everything that caprice

VOL. I. E

can want, and waste our lives working impossible flowers
upon linen rags, while they are starving, and perishing,
and sinning for want, trying for the hardest work, and
not getting it ? Why should there be such differences
in life?"

This is not a place to ask such a question. Spears,"
said Paul. 'you forget that we are the very people
who are taking the bread out of the mouths of our
brothers. We, and such as we "

Hold your tongue, Markham," said the orator. " Do
you think it is as easy as that ? Don't take any notice
of him, my lady. He's young, and he knows no better.
He thinks that if he were able to give up all your
estates to the people, justice would be done. That is
all he knows. Stuff ! we could do it all by a rising if it
were as easy as that. You young ass," the man continued,
filling the ladies with resentment more warm
than when he had denounced them all, '' don't you see
it's a deal better in the hands of your father and mother,
that take some thought of the people, than with a beast
of a shoddy millionaire, who cares for nothing on this
earth but money? I beg your pardon," he added, with
a smile, " for introducing such a subject at all ; but

sometimes it gets too much for me. I remember the
things I've seen. I would not treat hies in that way,
Miss Alice, if I were putting them on wood."

Oh ! " cried Ace with tears in her eyes ; " how
can you care about a pattern after what you have been
saying ? " His eloquence had moved her so much that
she felt disposed to fling her pattern away. "What
can one do ? How can one help it ? " she said,
below her breath, appealing to him with her heart
in her eyes.

I don't like the pattern," said Spears. " If I were
going to put it on wood, I'd treat it so — and so." To
illustrate his meaning, he made lines with his thumbnail
upon her satin. " I'd turn the leaves this way, and
the bud so. They should not be so stiff — or else they
should be stiffer."

"They are conventionally treated, Mr. Spears," said
Lady Markham, "and you don't treat anything conventionally,
neither our patterns nor your friends."

She had not forgotten that he had called her
son Paul, and " you young ass " was still tingling in
her ears. Paul took it, however, with the greatest
composure as a matter of course.

K 2

latent

Spears burst into a great good-humoured laugh.

"I beg your pardon, my lady. We don't mind how
we talk to young fellows. I'd have it as conventional,
or more, Miss Alice. This falls between two stools.
The lily's a glorious thing when you enter into it. Look
at the ribs of it, as strong as steel, though they are all
sheathed in something smoother than satin. And every
curl of the petal is full of vigour and life. I used to
think till you drew it or carved it, you never could
understand what that means — ' Consider the lilies of
the field.* There they stand, nobody taking any trouble
about them, and come out of the earth built like a
tower, or a ship, anything that's strong and full of grand
curves and sweeping lines. Now the fault I find with
that is, that you never would come to understand it a
bit better if you worked a hundred of them. If I had
a knife and a bit of wood "

*' Do you carve wood, Mr. Spears ? "

"Do I carve wood?" he laughed as Lord Lytton
might have laughed had he been asked whether he
wrote novels. Did not all the world know it ? The
ignorance of this pretty little lady was not insulting but
amusing, showing how far she was out of the world, and

how little in this silent country house they knew what '
was going on. " Yes — a little," he said, with again a
laugh. It tickled him. Her mother had not known
who Spears was — Spears the orator — the reformer — the
enemy of her order — and now here was this girl who
asked with that inimitable innocence, "Do you carve
wood ? " He was amused beyond measure. '' But I
could not bring a lily like that out of the softest
deal," he said ; 'rit would break its back and lie flat

it has no anatomy. If I had a pencil "

AHce, who was full of curiosity and interest, here put
the desired pencil into his hand, and he sat down at the
nearest table, and with many contortions of his limbs
and contractions of his lips, as if all his body was
drawing, produced in bold black lines a tall lily with a
twist of bindweed hanging about its lovely powerful
stalk, like strength and weakness combined. " That is
as near nature as you can do it without seeing it," he
said, pleased with the admiration his drawing called
forth. " But if I were to treat it conventionally, I'd
split the hly, and lay it flat, without light and shadow
at all. I should not make a thing which is neither one
nor the other, like your pattern there."

This was the way in which the man talked, assailing
them on every side, interesting them, making them
angry, keeping them in commotion and amusement.
Lady Markham said that it had never cost her so much
to be civil to any one ; but she was very civil to him,
polite, and sometimes even gracious. He stayed three
days, and though she uttered a heartfelt thanksgiving
when the dog-cart in which Paul drove him to the railway
disappeared down the avenue, '' Thank heaven he
is gone, and your papa only comes back tomorrow ! "
Lady Markham herself did not deny their strange
visitor justice. "But," she said, "now he is gone, let
as little as possible be said about him. I do not want
to conceal anything from your i^papa, but I am sure he
will not be pleased when he hears of it. For Paul's
sake, let as little as possible be said. I will mention it,
of course, but I will not dwell upon it. It is much
better that little should be said."

Sir William did not come home for two days, but
when he did return there was a hne between his eyebrows
which everybody knew did not come there for
nothing. The first glimpse of him made the whole
family certain that he hneio : and that he was angry ;
but he did not say anything until dinner was over and
the children gone to bed. By that time the ladies
began to hope with trembling, either that they had been
mistaken, or that nothing was going to be said. "I
will tell him this evening, but I will choose my time,"
Lady Markham whispered to Alice as Sir William stood
up in front of the fireplace and took his coffee after
dinner. He was not a man who sat long after dinner,
and he liked to have his coffee in the drawing-room,
when all the boys and girls had said good-night. He

was a little man of very neat and precise appearance,
always carefully dressed, always dignified and stately.
Perhaps this had been put on at first as a necessary
balance to his insignificant stature ; but it was part of
himself now. His family could not but look up to a
man who so thoroughly respected himself. He had a
fine head, with abundant hair, though it was growing
white, and very penetrating, keen blue eyes ; but to see
him standing thus against the carved marble of the
mantelpiece with the faint gammer of an unnecessary
fire throwing up now and then a feeble flash
behind him, it was not difficult to understand that his
family were afraid of his displeasure. The conversation
they maintained was of the most feeble, disjointed
description, while he stood there not saying a word. Paul
stood about too, helplessly, as men do in a drawmg-
room, unoccupied, and prepared to resent anything that
might be said to him. If only he could be got away
Lady Markham felt that she would have courage to dare
everything, and tell her husband, as was her wont, all
that had occurred since he went away.

The Westlands called on Tuesday. They were not
more amusing than usual. He wanted to tell you of

some great discovery he has made about the state of
the law. Paul, will you go and fetch me that law-book
I told you of, out of the library ? I want to show
something in it to papa."

*' I don't know what you mean by a law-book," said
Paul. He saw that it was intended as a pretext to
send him away, and he would not budge.

'rand I had a long talk with the vicar about the
new cottages. He thinks only those should be allowed
to get them who have been very well behaved in the
old ones. Paul, by the way, that reminds me I
promised to send down the Muche books to the
vicarage. Will you go and see after them, and tell
Brown to send them away ? "

'presently," said Paul. He drank his coffee with
the most elaborate tediousness. The more his mother
tried to get rid of him, the more determined he was
not to go.

Except the vicar and the Westlands we have seen
scarcely anybody. But I want those books to go
to-night, Paul."

You are very anxious to get Paul out of the way,"
said Sir William. " What does ' scarcely anybody '

mean ? Is it true that a man called Spears, a trades-unionists,
a paid agitator ? "

'' He is nothing of the sort," said Paul, with a
sudden burst of passion. '' If he is an agitator, it is
for the right against the wrong, not for payment ;
anybody who knows him will tell you so."

I have heard it from people who know him," said
Sir William. 'ris it possible that you took advantage
of my absence, Paul, to bring such a man here — to
lodge such a person in my house ? "

Such a person ! " Paul, who had felt it coming
ever since his father's arrival, stood to his arms at once.
''He is the best man I know," he said, indignantly.
There is no house in the country that might not be
proud to receive him ; and as for taking advantage of
your absence, sir "

Indeed," said LadyMarkham, holding up her head,
though she had grown pale, " you must not say so,
William ; he did not know you were away ; and as for
Mr. Spears, I was just about to tell you. He is not a
man to be afraid of. It is true he is not — in society,
perhaps — he has not quite the air of a person in
society — lias he, Alice ? " This was said with scarcely

a tremble. " But his manners were perfectly good,
and his appearance, though it was quite simple — I
think you must be making some mistake. I saw no
harm in him."

Will it be believed that Paul, instead of showing
gratitude, was indignant at this mild approval ? " Saw
no harm in him," he cried ; 'this manners, his appearance
! Are you mad, mother ? He is a man who is
worthy to be a king, if merit made kings ; or if any
man worth the name would accept an office which has
been soiled by such ignoble use ! "

Hold your tongue, sir," said Sir William. "It is
you who are mad. A stump-orator, a fellow who does
much mischief in England ! My house is not to be
made a shelter for such canaille. Your mother should
have turned him to the door ; and so she would have
done, I don't doubt — her instincts are too fine not to
have seen the kind of creature he was — but for her
foolish devotion to you."

Paul, Paul ! Oh, don't speak — don't say anything,"
cried Alice in an agony, in her brother's ear.

"Let him say what he pleases," said Sir William.
This must be put a stop to. When the house is his,

he can dishonour it if he likes, but in the meantime
the house is mine."

Certainly the house is yours, sir," cried his son ;
I make no claim on it. I feel no right to it. Let
me alone, Alice ! Do I want the house, or the landor
the money which we steal from the poor to make
ourselves splendid, while our fellow-creatures are
starving ? I am ready to give it up at a moment's
notice. It wounds my conscience, it restrains my action.
I want nothing with your house, sir. If I may not
bring one honest man into it, you may hand it over to
any one you please ; it is no home for me."

'* Paul, Paul ! " cried his mother in tones of alarm.
Sir William only laughed that laugh of anger which
frightens a household.

Let him rave — let him rave," he cried, throwing;
himself into a chair. " A boy who speaks so of his
home does not deserve one. He does not deserve the
position Providence has given him — a good name, a
good fortune, honourable ancestors, all thrown away."

I acknowledge no honour in the ancestors that
robbed the poor to make me rich," cried the hot-headed
youth. And the end of all was that his mother and

sister had much ado to keep him from leaving the
house at once, late as it was, in the heat of passion.
Never before had such a storm — or indeed any storm
at all — arisen in the peaceful house. It marked the
ending of that idyllic age in which the rulers of a
family are supreme, and where no new-developed will
confronts them within their sacred walls. Raised
voices and faces aglow with anger are terrible things in
such an inclosure. It seemed to Lady Markham that
she would die with shame when she met the look of
subdued wonder, curiosity, and sympathy in old
Brown's eyes ; when, after the storm was over, after a
decent interval, he came in, taking great precautions
to make himself audible as he approached. It was the
first time since she entered the house that her servants
had occasion to be sorry for Lady Markham, and this
consciousness went to her heart. By the time Brown
came in, however, all was very quiet. Sir William had
gone away to his library, and Paul, breathing indignation
at every pore, was walking about the room with
his hands in his pockets, now and then launching an
arrow at his mother or sister. A truce had been
patched up. He had consented, as a great matter, not

to plunge out of the house into the darkness, but to
wait till tomorrow. This was a concession for which
they were as grateful as if it had been the noblest gift ;
it was for their sake he did it; nothing else, he
declared, would have made him remain an hour under
the same roof.

Oh hush, Paul — hush ! I forbid you to say another
word," cried his mother; and then all was
silent, as they heard Brown cough before he opened
the door.

Tell Lewis to have the dog-cart ready for Mr. Markham
for the first train," she said, not raising her eyes.
But all the same she saw the pity in the face of old Brown.
He asked no question ; he did not express his sorrow to
hear of Mr. Markham's sudden departure, as on previous
occasions he would have done, exercising the right of
his old service ; he said, " Certainly, my lady," in a tone
which went to Lady Markham's heart. Even Brown
perceived that there was no more to be said.

That was in other ways a notable year for the
Markhams. For one thing Alice *' came out." She
was eighteen : she had not been prematurely introduced
as an eldest daughter very often is. And in consequence

Lady Markham stayed in London longer and went more
into society. This moment, so exciting to the debutante,
was clouded over to Alice and to her mother by the fact
that Paul was in disgrace. They were still in London
when the Oxford term ended, and it had been their hope
that he would join them there. It is true that this
prospect was not altogether an unmingled delight, for a
certain alarm was involved in their joy. How would
his father and he '' get on " after this first quarrel ?
Would Paul be as submissive, would Sir William be as
forgiving, as they ought ? All the little triumphs of
Alice, her succds, the admiration she had excited were
made of no account by this doubt and fear about her
brother. But when, just before the long vacation began,
a letter arrived from Paul, announcing that he did not
mean to join them at all, but was going to '' stay up and
read," with a party of other '' men " who entertained
that virtuous intention, the revulsion of feeling in the
minds of the mother and sister was very painful. They
forgot that they had ever entertained any fear about his
coming, and cried over his letter with the bitterest
pangs of disappointment.

It is all papa's fault," Alice cried in mournful wrath;

and though Lady Markham checked her daughter,
saying, " Hush ! surely your papa knows better than you
do," yet there was a little rebellion in her heart too
against the head of the house. Had he been less hard,
Paul would have been more docile.

Sir William, however, as it happened, was rather
mollified than offended by this intimation. The authorities
of Paul's college had been finding fault. High
hopes had been entertained of the young man at first.
It had been believed that he would bring distinction to
his college, which, who can doubt ? is the first thing to
be considered. But that hope had proved delusive ; he
had not '' gone in for " half so much as he ought, and of
all those things he had " gone in for " he had not been
successful in one. This made him to be looked upon
coldly by eyes which at first winked with benevolence
at the blunders and idleness of a statesman's son. Now
that they were aware that he was not likely to bring
them any honour, the dons grew querulous with Paul.
He was not a duke or a duke's son that he should ride
roughshod over the habitudes of the university and its
inviolable order. They had not of late shown that
delight in him which parents love to see. He had not



excited parental feelings in their academical bosoms.
He was visionary, he was Radical ; and it was whispered
that he received visitors in his rooms who were not of a
character to be received there. Fortunately this last
accusation had not reached Lady Markham's ears. Had
she known, how could she ever have borne that '' staying
up to read," which at present seemed a proof of Paul's
innate virtue ? But Sir William was of tougher fibre.
He was not displeased to be free of personal contact
with his son at this crisis. It is not expedient that there
should be quarrels in a family. All that nonsense would
blow over. Paul's intellectual measles might be severe,
but they were only measles after all, a malady of youth
which a young man of marked character took more
seriously than a frivolous boy, but which would pass
away. '' It will be aU the better for his degree," his
father said with that simplicity of confidence in the
noble purpose of 'staying up to read" which it is so
touching to see. And what could the women say ? If
it was good for him, was it their part to complain ?
They were cruelly disappointed, and yet perhaps they
were relieved as well. They wrote letters full of the
former feeling, but they did not say anything about the
VOL. L F

latter — not even to each other. How could they allow
even to themselves that it was better for Paul to
stay away ?

However this disappointment seriously interfered with
the glories of her first season to Alice. She did not
wish to stay longer in town than Lady Markham's usual
time. She longed for the country, when the summer
reached its very crown of brightness, and the park
looked baked and the streets scorching. They went
home as they were in the habit of doing, in the end of
June, leaving Sir William to toil through the end of
the session by himself ; and though it was still more
melancholy to be without Paul in the quietness of home,
yet there were compensations. They had their usual
work to occupy them, and that routine of ordinary living
which IS the best prop and support of the anxious mind ;
and Alice was young enough, anther mother scarcely too
old to forget, by times altogether, that there were
troubles in the world. Nothing very dreadful had
happened after all. If Paul did not write very often,
were not all boys the same ? Thus they kept their
anxieties subdued, and were not unhappy — except
perhaps for half an hour now and then.

Thus the summer went on. The holidays came once
more. The boys came home, the girls were delivered
from their governess, and the reign of innocence recommenced.
Not to last long this time, for everybody
knew that in the second week in August papa was
coming home. The children, however, took the good
of the fortnight they had all to themselves. The sunshine,
the harvest, the woods, how delightful they are
in August, with no lessons, no governess, and mamma all
to themselves ! From morning till night the house
was full of laughter and commotion, except when it lay
all open and silent with the whole family out of it, gone
pic-nicking, gone upon excursions, making simple
holiday.

My lady is the biggest baby of them all," Mrs. Fry
said with indulgent disapproval, shaking her head, '' if
she wasn't thinking all the time of Mr. Paul."

Bless you there ain't a minute as that boy is out of
her head," said Brown. Brown was too respectful to
say anything but Mr. Markham in public, but he said
Mr. Paul, or even Paul tout court, when he was in the
housekeeper's room. While these pranks were going
on, the house lay like an enchanted palace, all its doors

F 2

and windows open to the sweet summer air, the rooms
full of flowers and sweetness, but nobody there. There
were too many servants about for any fear of robbers,
but it is doubtful whether Sir William would have
thought it decorous had he seen the openness and
vacancy of this summer palace, waiting all garnished
and bright for the return of the revellers, for the rush
of light feet, the smiles, the voices, the chattering and
laughter, the gaiety and glee that in a moment would
flood it through and through. But to the spectator
whose dignity was not involved, these changes were
pretty and pleasant to see, and it was not to be wondered
at perhaps if Brown and the army under his charge
took holiday too.

One day very shortly before that on which Sir
William was expected, a stranger walked slowly up the
avenue and came to the great open door. Everything
was open as usual. He saw into the great hall as he
came gradually up, and saw that it was empty and still.
It was a warm day, and he was weighted with a little
valise, which he carried, shifting it from one hand to
the other with some appearance of fatigue. He
was a tall man, very thin and very brown, with the

unmistakable look of an old soldier in his well-squared
shoulders, even though his figure drooped a little with
fatigue and heat, and slightly with age. When he
reached the door, he looked round him, and seeing
nobody there went in and placed himself in a great
chair which was near the open door. '' He's come into
my house without knocking many's the day," he said to
himself. It was hot, and he was tired, and the coolness
and shade inside completed what the glare without had
done. He put his valise down by his side and leaned
back, and felt himself very comfortable ; then quite
tranquilly and pleasantly closed his eyes and rested ;
had there been anything to drink all would have been
perfect. But even without this it was very comfortable.
The house was perfectly still, but outside a little breeze
was getting up, making a murmuring cadence among
the trees. There was a sound of bees in the air close
at hand, and of birds further off among the branches —
everything was sweet and summery and reposeful. The
new-comer lay back in his chair in the mood which
makes fatigue an accessory of enjoyment. Something
of the vagabond was in his appearance which yet scarcely
marred his air of gentleman. Poor he was without

doubt, growing old, very tired, dusty, and travel-worn.
He was not fastidious about his accommodation, and
could have slept as well on a grassy bank, had it been
needful, but the chair was very comfortable and pleasant.
He fell asleep, or rather went to sleep, quite voluntarily.
It was afternoon, near the time when the party might
be expected to return, but up to this moment nobody
had made any preparation for them, and the new-comer
took possession without challenge of all the comfort of
the vacant place.

Roland had been allowed that day to drive the dogcart,
the carriage being full, and he and Marie had so
urged the stout cob Primrose, which was the steed
specially given up to the uses of the schoolroom, that
he flew like the wind and got home before the carriage.
The little pair burst into the stable-yard like a flash of
lightning, and tossed the reins to the first astonished
groom they encountered.

Let's rush in the back way and pretend we have
been here for an hour," cried Marie.

They flew rather than walked round by the flower-garden,
and through the open window of the drawing-room.
There was the carriage turning in at the gate,

a quarter of a mile off ; there was plenty of time. But
the fact that there was plenty of time did not make
them move quietly. They proceeded into the hall,
making themselves audible by the chatter of their
childish voices and laughter.

Won't mamma be surprised ! " cried Marie.

But, on the contrary, it was herself that was surprised.
She gave a lengthened " Oh ! " of wonder, alarm, and
consternation, as they came in sight of the stranger in
the hall. She turned round and clutched at Roland,
and like a little coward put him first. He was twelve,
not an age to be frightened, and Marie was but eleven.
Roland said " Oh ! " too, but with a different tone, and,
dropping back a little upon her, confronted and gazed
at the sleeper in the easy chair. His looks were not
of the kind that children fly. The heavy moustache
drooping over his mouth seemed to add to the appearance
of complete, yet pleasant weariness, in which the
shabby figure was wrapped. Here was a thing to
encounter when one got home : a man, a gentleman,
whom one had never seen before, fast asleep in the
great chair in the hall !

Will he not wake ? " whispered Marie. '' Oh,

Roland ! are you frightened ? Shall I run and tell
Brown ? "

Frightened ! — likely," said Roland ; but he kept
hold of her frock, not that she could have been of any
real assistance to him, but " for company."

The two children stood transfixed before this strange
apparition, watching if he would move. At the first
stir, Marie most likely would have run away with a
shriek ; but after, all what was there to fear ? Mamma
had certainly turned into the avenue, and might arrive
any moment, and Brown with his army of men and
jnaids was somewhere in the background within call,
so there was no real reason to fear. Nevertheless,
when the arms that rested on the arms of the chair
began to stretch themselves, and the intent gaze
of the children drew the tired eyes open, Marie's
best efforts to command herself could not restrain
a tremulous cry, which quite completed the stranger's
awakening.

'' Bless me, I've been asleep ! " he said, opening his
eyes. Then when he saw the two Httle figures before
him, his eyelids opened wider, and a smile came out
from underneath them. '' Little folks, who are you ? "

It's you to tell us," cried Roland with spirit. " This
is our house, but it isn't yours."

That's true, my little man. I've been asleep,
more shame to me. It was hot, and I've had a
long walk."

If you are very tired, poor gentleman," said Marie,
coming in now that there seemed nothing to be afraid
of, '' I — don't think mamma will mind. Oh, Rol, here
she is ! come and tell her," the little girl cried. They
forgot their triumph of being first, in the excitement of
this strange piece of news, and flew bursting with it to
the door of the carriage which swept up at the moment,
filling the stillness with echoes, and waking up the
whole silent house. Brown and the footman on duty
appeared as by magic, and the whole enchanted palace
came to life. The stranger sat still and watched it all
with a smile on his face. He saw pretty Alice and her
beautiful mother descend from the carriage, and a
curious light broke over his countenance.

'' Lucky little beggar," he said.

He repeated this phrase two or three times to himself
before he was altogether roused from the half-dream,
half-languor, he was still in, by the sight of Lady

Markham's eyes fixed upon him, and the alarmed,
guilty, nervous inspection of old Brown.

You must get out of here, sir — you must get out
of here, sir — heaven knows how you got into it ; this
must have been your fault, Charles. I can't let you
stay here, though I don't want to be uncivil. My
lady's coming this way."

It's your lady I want, my friend," said the intruder,
rising languidly. He made Lady Markham a fine bow
as she approached, with surprise in her face. " I must
be my own godfather, and present myself to my old
friend's family," he said. " I am Colonel Lenny, of the
50th West India Regiment. St. John Lenny at your
service, my dear madam, once Will Markham's closest
friend."

Lady Markham made him a curtsey in return for
his bow.

Sir William is not at home," she said. If she
had not already suffered for her hospitality, his
reception would have been less cold ; but she had
never heard of Colonel Lenny, and what could she
say?

'' He must have talked to you about me and mine.

i

I married a Gaveston — Kateyy. You must have heard
him speak of her. No ? That is very strange. Then
perhaps you will think me an intruder, my Lady Markham.
I beg your pardon. I thought I was sure of a
welcome ; and I was so done with the heat, though I
used not to mind the heat, that I fell asleep in your
nice, pleasant hall, in this big chair."

Lady Markham inclined her head in assent. What
was she to do ? who was Colonel Lenny ? She cast a
glance at Alice, seeking counsel ; but how could Alice
advise ?

Will you come in now and take a cup of tea with
us ? " she said.

Colonel Lenny left his valise in the hall, where,
when he rose, it was very visible, a dusty object upon
the soft carpet. Lady Markham looked at it with alarm.
Did it mean that he intended to stay ? Was she to be
punished for having received one unsuitable visitor by
being forced to be rude to another ? She led the
way into the drawing-room in great perplexity and
trouble. As for Brown and Charles, they both went
and looked at the valise with curiosity as a natural
phenomenon.

"Is all the beggars coming on visits ? " said the
footman ; ''I ain't going to wait on another, not if
my wages was doubled."

Hold your tongue," said Brown ; " you'll do what
I tell you if you want to go from here with a character.

So mind your business, and keep your silly remarks to
yourself."

But when Charles disappeared muttering, Brown
turned over the dusty, humble portmanteau with his
foot, with serious disgust. " My lady hasn't the heart
to say no to nobody," he said to himself He felt
perfectly convinced that this miserable representation
of a gentleman's luggage would sooner or later have
to be carried up stairs.

The stranger followed Lady Markham into the
drawing-room, at which he gazed with wonder and
admiration. '' This is something like a house," he said.
Little we thought when I used to know Will Markham
that he would ever come to this honour and glory.
It was in the year — bless me, not any year you can
recollect — forty years ago if it is a day. His brothers
were living, and he was nearly as poor as the rest of us.
I married Kateyy. He must have spoken of the
Gavestons, though he might not mention his old friend
Lenny. Ah, well, maybe no — to be sure I am not
taking everything into consideration. Did your father
ever tell you, my boys, of the West Indies, and the
insurrection, and all the stirring times we had there ? "

Harry and Roland looked at each other with eyes
brightening, yet confused. Papa was not a man who
told stories of anything, — and Lady Markham interposed.
" I think you must be making a mistake," she
said. '' I am sure Sir William has never been in the
West Indies. You must be thinking of some one else
of the same name."

The old soldier looked at her with bewildered surprise.
" A mistake ! " he said. " I make a mistake
about Will Markham ? I have known all about him,
and the name of his place, his family, and all his
belongings for the last forty years ! Why, I — I am

his " Then he paused and looked at Lady

Markham, and added slowly, '' One of his very oldest
friends, be the other who he may."

I beg your pardon," she said, concealing her
embarrassment over the tea-table.

Colonel Lenny was not particularly fond of tea : he
would have liked, he thought, something else instead
of it, something that foamed and sparkled ; yet the
tea was better than nothing. He gave her his pardon
very easily, not dwelling upon the offence.

Ah," he said, '' I can tell you stories that will make

your hair stand on end. When those niggers broke out,
it was not preaching that would do much. That was
in the old time, you know, when land meant something
in the islands, before emancipation. Did you ever hear
about the emancipation ? I'll tell you a story about
the times before that. We had to get the women and
children stowed away — the devils would have thought
no more of cutting them to pieces — we were after
them in the woods night and day sometimes. Once
your father was with us — he was not in the service,
as we were, but he was very plucky though he was
always small — he joined as a volunteer."

'' Where was that ? and when was that ? " cried the
boys ; and the girls too drew near, much attracted by
the promise of a story. Colonel Lenny waved his long
brown hand to them, and went on —

I'll tell you all about that presently ; but I must
ask you to let me know, my dear lady, when Markham
is expected home. I've got business to talk over —
business that is more his than mine. He'll know all
about it as soon as he hears my name. It is a longtime
since we met — and perhaps the notion would
never have struck me to seek him out but for — things

that have happened. It is more his business than
mine."

I am not sure whether he will return tomorrow or
next day — next day at the latest," said Lady Markham,
faltering.

She could not make up her mind what to do. On
the occasion of her former mistake, Paul in person had
been present to answer for his friend, but there was
no one to guarantee this second stranger — this new
claimant on her hospitality. If he should be an impostor
! but he did not look like an impostor ; or, if it
should be a mistake after all, and his Will Markham
quite a different man ? Will Markham ! it seemed
incredible to Lady Markham that any one should ever
have addressed her husband with so much familiarity.
These, and a hundred other thoughts, ran through her
mind as she poured out the tea.

Meantime, Colonel Lenny made great friends with
the children. He began to tell them the most exciting
stories. He was not ill at ease as Spears had been, but
sat luxuriously thrown back into a luxurious chair, his
long limbs stretched out, his long brown hands giving
animation to his narrative. Lady Markham managed

to escape while this was going on, and got Burke down
from the bookshelves in the hall, and anxiously looked
up its various lists. There was no Sir William Markham
except her husband, no William Markham at all among
the county gentry. When Brown, become suspicious
by his past experiences, came into the hall at the sound
of her foot, she put back the book again guiltily.

The old butler came forward with an expression of
concern and trouble on his countenance. " What does
your ladyship intend," he asked, solemnly, '' that I
should do with this ? " touching with his foot as he
spoke the dusty valise — the old soldier's luggage, which
lay very humbly as if ashamed of itself half under the
big chair.

Lady Markham could have laughed and she could
have cried. '' I don't know what to do. Brown," she
said.

Brown was very much tempted to give his mistress
the benefit of his advice. He forbore, however, exercising
a wise discretion, for Lady Markham, though
very gracious, was proud ; but he was not self-denying
enough to divest himself of a general air of anxiety —
the air of one who could say a great deal if he would —

VOL. I. G

shaking his head slightly, and looking at the offending
article which seemed to try to withdraw itself out of
notice under the shadow of the chair. He could have
said a great deal if he had dared. He would have
bidden his mistress beware who she took into her house,
Sir William wasn't best pleased before, and if it

happens again Perhaps Lady Markham read

something of this in Brown's eyes; and she did not
like the butler's advice, which was more or less disapproval,
as all effective advice is. The result was
however that before dinner the poor little valise was
carried up, to the great scorn of the domestics, to a
bedroom, and that Colonel Lenny, after keeping the
children suspended on his lips all the evening, withdrew
early, leaving the mother and daughter to an anxious
consultation over him. Alice, too, had consulted a
book, but it was an Army List that was the subject of
her studies. She came to her mother triumphantly
with this volume open in her hand.

"Here he is, mamma. John St. John Lenny, 50th
West India Regiment. I am so glad I have found it.
He is delightful. There never could be any doubt
about such a thorough old soldier."

"You thought Mr. Spears interesting, Alice," said
Lady Markham, feebly.

Mamma ! and so did you. He was very interesting.
I have his lily that he drew for me, and it is beautiful.
But he was not a gentleman. He did not know how to
sit on his chair, nor how to stand, nor what to say to
you or even me. He called me Miss Alice, and you my
lady. But Colonel Lenny is entirely different. He is
just the same as everybody else, only more amusing
than most people. Did you hear the story he was
telling about ? "

Oh, my dear, I was a great deal too anxious to be
able to attend to any story. What if he should turnout
some agitator too ? what if he were a spy to see
what kind of life we lead, or an impostor, or some one
who has made a mistake, and takes your papa for some
other Markham ? If I have taken in some one else
whom I ought not to have taken in, I think I shall die
of shame."

How can he be an impostor, when he is here in the
Army List ? "

Let me see it," Lady Markham said. She read out
the name word by word, and her mind was a little

G 2

relieved. " I suppose there cannot be any mistake
since lie is here' she said, with a sigh of relief. But,
as a matter of fact. Lady Markham sat up in her
dressing-gown half the nis^ht, afraid of she knew not
what, and listening anxiously to all the vague mystical
noises that arise in a sleeping house in the middle of
the nis^ht. She did not know what it was of which she
was afraid. How could he be an impostor when his
name was in the Army List, and when he had that kind
bro^^m face ? But then, on the other hand, a man from
the West Indies, who called her husband Will Markham,
was an incredible person. She sat up till the blue
summer daylight came silently in at all the windows,
putting her suspicious candles to shame, when she, too,
became ashamed of herself for her suspicions, and crept
very quietly to bed.

Sir William did not come next day, but Colonel
Lenny stayed on, and as it is always the jjrc??i^cr 2^(^s que
route, Jjs.dj Markham' s doubts were lulled to rest, and
she neither frowned nor watched the second night. And
on the third Sir William came. It was Alice who Event
to meet him at the station, in a pretty little pony carriage
which he had given her. Everything was done

instinctively by the ladies to disarm any displeasure
papa might feel, and to prepare him to receive this
second visitor with a friendly countenance. If there
was anything that moved Sir William's heart with a
momentary impulse of unreasoning pride and foolish
fondness, it was supposed by his wife to be the sight of
his pretty daughter, with her pretty ponies. These
ponies had been named To-to and Ta-ta before Alice
had them — after, it was understood, two naughty personages
in a play — and as the ponies were very naughty
the names were retained. There were no such mischievous
and troublesome individuals about the house,
and Alice was very proud of the fact that it was she
with her lisjht hand who managed them best. Sir
William was not fond of wild animals, and yet all the
household knew that he liked to be brought home by
his daughter in her little carriage, with the ponies
skimming over the roads as if they were flying. It
was the one piece of dash and daring in which he
delighted.

Lady Markham, who was not fond of risking her
daughter, came out to the door to entreat her to take
care.

And you will explain everything ? " she said ; " how
it happened, and how very uneasy we have been ; but
my darling, above all, take care of yourself. Do not
let those wicked little things run away with you. Give
George the reins if you feel them too strong for your
wrist. And make him understand, Alice, how nice, how
really nice, and kind, and agreeable he is. George, you
must never take your eye off the ponies, and see that
Miss Markham takes care."

I hope they know my hand better than George's,"
said Alice, scornfully, "better than any one else's.
Nobody can interfere between them and me."

Pretty creatures ! I don't know which is the prettiest,"
said Colonel Lenny, coming up. He had all the
children in a cluster round him. " They are three
beauties ; that is all there is to be said. If you were
not so little I could tell you now about a great number
of pretty girls in a family, that were called the pride of
Barbadoes. I married one of them, and my friend
Markham — why, my friend Markham knew them very
well, my dear madam," the Colonel said. It did not
seem to be the conclusion which he intended to-give
to his description. However, he added, with a smile,

But as you're so little I won't tell you about young
ladies. I'll tell you about the Oboe men, and the harm
they do among the poor niggers."

"Oh," cried Bell and Marie, in one breath, "we
should like to hear about the young ladies best."

Bosh ! " cried the boys ; " what is the good of
stories about a pack of girls ? I hate stories that are
full of love and all that stupid stuff."

Then here goes for the Oboe men," said the old
soldier. He seated himself under the great portico, ina
large Indian bamboo chair that stood there in summer,
and the children perched about him like a flight of
birds.

Lady Markham looked at this group for a moment,
with a softening of all the anxious lines that had got
into her face. She was not afraid of her husband, who
had always been so good to her, but she was afraid of
disapproval, and the Spears' affair was fresh in her
mind. But then, in all the circumstances, that was so
different !

She left the pretty group round the door, and went
slowly down the avenue, that she might be the first to
meet her husband. Now that the critical moment

arrived, she began for the first time to think what the
business could be which Colonel Lenny was waiting to
discuss. " More his business than mine." What was
it ? This question rose in her mind, giving a little, a
very little additional anxiety to her former disquietude.
And then, being anxious anyhow, what wonder that her
mind should glide on to the subject of Paul and what
he was doing. That was a subject that was never long
out of her thoughts. Would he come home when the
shooting began ? He could not stay up to read for ever.
Would his father and he meet as father and son ought
to meet ? Would it be possible to reason or laugh the
boy out of his foolish notions, and bring him back to
right views, to the disposition which ought to belong to
his father's son ? This was a wide sea of troubles to be
launched upon, all starting from the tiny rivulet of
alarm lest Sir William should dislike the new visitor.
She went slowly down the avenue, under the flickers of
sunshine and shade, under the murmuring of the leaves,
catching now and then the sound of the colonel's voice
in the distance, and the exclamations of the children.
Ah, at their age how simple it all was — no complication
of opposed wills, no unknown friends or influences to

contend with ! She sighed, poor lady, with happiness,
and with pain. It is easy even for a mother to dismiss
from her thoughts those who are happy ; but how can
lie forget the one who perhaps is not happy, who is
absent, who is among unknown elements, not good or
innocent ? Thus Lady Markham's thoughts, however
occupied with other subjects, came back like the doves
to their windows, always to Paul.

Has anything happened, papa ? You are so late —
nearly an hour. To-to has been almost mad with
waiting — has there been an accident ? We were all
beginning to get frightened here."

No accident that I know of," said Sir William.
He cast a look of pleasure at the pretty equipage and
the pretty charioteer — a look of proud proprietorship
and paternal pride. Alice was his favourite, they all
said. But notwithstanding, he would not join her till
he had seen that all his portmanteaus had been got out
and carefully packed on the dog-cart which had come
for them. Sir William's own gentleman, Mr. Roberts,
a most careful and responsible person, whose special
charge these portmanteaus were, superintended the
operation ; but this did not satisfy his master. He

stood by the pony-carriage, talking to his daughter, but
he kept his eyes upon his luggage. There were despatch-boxes,
no doubt freighted with the interests of the
kingdom, and too important to be left to the care of a
valet, however conscientious, and a railway porter. It
was only when they were all collected and safe that
he took his place by the side of Alice.

"You may be sure, my dear," he said, "that unless
you take similar precautions you will always be losing
something." The ponies had gone off with such a start
of delight the moment they were set free, that Sir
William's remark was jerked out of his mouth.

It would be quite a novelty if that happened to
you — it would be rather nice, showing that you were
human, like the rest of us. Did you really never,
never, lose anything, papa ? "

Never," he said ; and you had only to look at him
to see that this was no exaggeration. Such a perfectly
precise and orderly person was never seen ; from the
top of his hat to the tip of his well-brushed boots there
was nothing out of order about him, notwithstanding
his journey. His clothes fitted him perfectly ; they
were just of the cut and the colour that suited his age,

Lis importance and position. That he would ever have
neglected any duty, or forgotten any necessary precaution,
seemed impossible. " However," he added,
I must not say too much ; when I was young I have
no doubt accidents happened. What I object to is that
the present generation seems to think it a privilege to
be forgetful. I was taught to be ashamed of it in my
day."

'' Oh yes, papa, we are very silly," said Alice ;
'though mamma says I am a little old maid and
never forget. I take after you, that is what they all
say.

Sir William looked at her with a benevolent smile.
There is no more subtle flattery that a child can address
to a parent than this of " taking after " him, though
why it should please us so it would be hard to say. He
leaned back in his seat with a sense of well-deserved
repose, while the impatient ponies flew along, tossing
their pretty heads, their bells jingling, their hasty little
hoofs beating time over the dry summer road. " This
is very pleasant," he said. It was a perfect summer
evening, cool after a hot day, and the road lay through
a tranquil, wealthy country, so fresh after the burnt-up

parks, yet full of harvest wealth ; the sheaves standing
in the fields, some golden breadths of corn still uncut,
and the heavy richness of the full foliage throwing deep
shadows eastward. The ponies flew like the wind, and
Alice, holding' them with firm little vigorous hands,
turned her soft face to him, all lit up with pleasure at
his return. A conscientious statesman, a man who has
been broiling in the service of his country, sitting on
committees, listening to endless wearisome discussions
and all the bothers of the end of the session, it may be
supposed what a pleasant relief it was to step into this
little fairy carriage and be carried swiftly and softly
through the happy autumn fields to his home. " All
well ? " he said. But a man who has a daily bulletin
from his wife asks such a question tranquilly, without
any anxiety for the reply.

"I wonder who that lady was in the pink bonnet,"
said Alice. '' Strangers so seldom come out at our
station. I fonder who she is going to. Perhaps it is
somebody f<)r the vicarage. Oh, yes, they are all quite
well. The boys came home on Friday week, and they
have never been out of mischief ever since. They are
in the woods all day ; and the girls have begun their

holidays too. Mademoiselle has gone. We wanted
only you, papa, you — and Paul. But who could that
lady with the pink bonnet be ? "

This second expression of curiosity was added artificially
to cover the allusion to Paul. Sir William did
not take any notice of either one or the other. '' So
Mademoiselle has gone ? " he said. " I hope you keep
order, and that mamma does not let them be too
irregular. They will be far happier for a little
wholesome restraint."

I suppose so," said Alice, dubiously. '' Anyhow,"
she added, " they have had nearly a fortnight all to
themselves. We have all been idle ; but we will settle
down into right laws and proper habits now we have
got you, papa."

'that will be quite necessary," he said ; then, with
a slightly impatient tone, " You spoke of Paul — what
is your last news of Paul ? "

To-to had a very sensitive mouth. At this moment
he so resented some imperceptible pull of the reins, that
he got into the air altogether, capering with all his four
feet, and called for Alice's complete attention. In the
midst of this little excitement she said, 'paul. is still at

Oxford, papa. He does not write very often. Oh, you
bad To-to, what do you mean by this ? "

''He has got very fond of Oxford all at once."

'' He has all his friends there — at least some of his
friends. Papa," cried Alice, with an impulse of alarm,
I wonder who that lady can be. She is coming after
us in the village fly. I saw her bonnet just now through
the window, when To-to made that bolt."

My dear, it is quite unimportant who she is — unless
you think she is one of your brother's friends. Considering
who his associates are, one could never be
astonished at any arrival. It may be a lady lecturer,
perhaps, on Female Suffrage and Universal Equality."

Oh, papa ! because he knows one man like that !
But I have something to tell you — something that
makes mamma and me a little uneasy. A gentleman
came on Monday — oh, not a common person at all, a
gentleman, and very nice. We could not tell what todo,
but at last, after many consultations, we made up
our minds to invite him to stay."

My dear Alice ! " cried Sir William, 'what do you
and your mother mean ? Is my house to be made into
an hotel ? What is the meaning of it ? Am I to

understand that you have taken in another nameless
person, another disreputable acquaintance of Paul's ?
Good heavens 1 is your mother mad ? But I will not
put up with it. My house shall not be made a refuge
for adventurers, a den of "

For that matter," said Alice growing pale, " I
suppose it is mamma's house too."

There are opinions that get into the air and spread
in sentiment when most opposed to principle. Nobody
could have been more horrified than Lady Markham at
any claim for her of woman's rights ; but when her
little daughter, generously bred, found herself suddenly
confronted by this undoubted claim of proprietorship,
a chord was struck within her which had perhaps only
learned to vibrate of recent days. She looked her
father in the face with sudden defiance. She had not
intended it — on the contrary, the object of her mission,
the chief thing in her thoughts, had been to conciliate
him in respect to this visitor, and soften his probable
displeasure. But a girl's mind is a delicate machine,
and there is nothing that so easily changes its balance
by a sudden touch. A whole claim of rights, a whole
code of natural justice, blazed up in her blue eyes.

She forgot To-to in lier sudden indignation, looking
with all the severity of logical youth in her father's
face.

Sir William vas altogether taken aback. He
returned her look with a kind of consternation.

You little " But then he stopped. A man

sometimes remembers (though not always) that when
he is speaking to his children of their mother it is
necessary to do so with respect. Unquestionably it
was expedient that a girl should have full faith in her
mother. Besides (it gleamed upon Sir William) Alice
was not a child. She was a reasonable little creature,
able, after all, more or less, to form an opinion for
herself. Perhaps he was more disposed to grant this
privilege to the girl who was not likely to make any
extravagant use of it, than to the boy ; or perhaps his
ill success in respect to the boy had taught him a
lesson. Anyhow he paused. " Of course," he said,
it is also, as you say, your mamma's house. A friend
of hers, I need not tell you, would be as welcome to meas
a friend of my own. Do I ever attempt to settle
without her who is to be asked ? but vvith your sense,
Alice, you must be aware there is a difference. I

VOL. L H

luiist interfere to prevent your excellent mother, who
is only too good and kind, from being imposed upon by
those disreputable acquaintances of Paul."

I beg your pardon, papa," said Alice, who had been
waiting breathless for the end of his address to make
her eager apologies. '' But," she added, not unwilling
to bring him down summarily from his elevation, " the
gentleman I have been speaking of declares that he is
your friend, and not Paul's."

My friend ! Then I daresay it is quite simple,"
said Sir William, relapsing into his previous state of
perfect repose and calm. " My friends are your
mother's friends too."

Ah, but this is different. (Papa, I am certain
that woman is following us.) This is quite different.
It is an old friend, whom none of us ever heard of.
If we had known even his name we should not have
been afraid. But do not be frightened, he is very nice.
We all like him. He says he knew you in the West
Indies, and the thing that alarmed us was that none of
us, not even mamma, ever knew you had been thereat
all."

"The West Indies!" Was it possible that Sir

William started so much as to shake the pony carriage
in which he sat ? A cloud came suddenly over his
serene countenance. He did not says, as Alice fancied
he would, "I know nothing about the West Indies."
On the contrary, he paused, cleared his throat, and
asked in a curiously restrained, yet agitated voice,
What does he — call himself? — what is his name ? "

Alice was half alarmed by the effect she had produced.
She did not understand it. She wanted to
soften and do away with any disagreeable impression.

Oh, he is vers nice," she said. "It is not any one
you will mind, papa. And he is all right ; he is in the
Army List ; we looked him up at once ; we took every
precaution ; and there he was, just as he said, J. St.
John Lenny, 50th West India Regiment, Lieutenant-colonel.
After that, of course, and when he said he
had known you so well, we could not hesitate anymore."


Lenny ! " Sir William said. It was with a tone of
relief. He drew a long breath 'ras if he had expected
something much worse," Alice said afterwards. He
took out his handkerchief and wiped his forehead.
To be sure it was a warm evening. But there was

n 2

something very strange to the girl in her father's
agitation. She did not understand it — he who was

o

always so calm, who never allowed anything to put
him out.

Then were you really in the West Indies, papa ? "
I was in a great many places in my youth," he
said. " I was not taken care of as my boys have
been. I was the youngest, and I did pretty much as
I liked — a bad thing," he added, after a pause ; ''a
very bad thing, though you children never Understand it.
It led me into places and among people whose very
names I seem to have forgotten now."

There was a pause. Alice was very curious, but she
did not venture to say more. She did not like even to
look at her father who was so unusually disturbed.
What could make him so unlike himself ? The idea
that there might be a mystery in Sir William's life
was more than impossible, it was ludicrous. She tried
to fix her attention upon the ponies, who were going
so beautifully. Then her ear was caught by the steady
roll of wheels coming after them. Certainly it was
the fly from the village ; and certainly it was following
on to the rates of the Chase which were now in siofht.

This was not the way to the vicarage* or to any other
house to which a stranger who had stopped at the
station of Markham Royal could be going. She had
not really believed it possible that the lady in the pink
bonnet could be coming to the Chase ; but now it
seemed almost certain. What could be the meaning:
of it ? Her heart jumped up into sudden excitement.
She flourished her whip and touched the ponies till
they flew. She could not bear the heavy rolling of
that fly, a long way behind, yet always following with
the steadiness of fate. This distracted her thoughts
at once from her father, and a thousand conjectures
rushed into the girl's head. Could it be somebody
from Paul ? The fly came pounding heavily along,
nothing stopping it. What could she do to stop it or
conjure its passenger away ? If it was bad news that
was coming in it, what doubt that it would arrive quite
safely ? Paul ! what could a woman in a pink bonnet
have to do with Paul ? Could he be ill ? could hebe
going to marry somebody, to do something foolish ?
Alice became herself so excited that she could not
think of her father. And her father for his part took
little notice of Alice. His mind was full of thoughts

that would have been very incomprehensible, very
startling to her. The stranger's name had fallen upon
him in his tranquillity as a stone falls into still waters.
The calm surface of his mind was all broken, filled
with widening and ever-widening circles of recollection.
He felt dizzy like a man in a dream. The past
was so long past, that, thus suddenly recalled to him,
after such an interval of years. Sir William had a
moment of giddy uncertainty as to whether it had
actually existed at all, whether it was not a mere fable,
something he had read in a book. Forty years ago —
is a man responsible for things he did forty years ago ?
Can he be blamed if he forgets them ? Can he be
expected to remember ? He who was so systematic,
so careful, who never lost anything, who had for years
been in a position to set every one else right : was it
possible that he had once been foolish as other men ?
He himself did not understand it. He could not
believe it. Lenny ? Yes, he remembered there had
been a man — the West Indies — ah, yes ! things had
passed there which he would not care now to talk
about, which had been forgotten, which were to him as
if they had never been. Had they ever been ? hei



could scarcely tell. The ponies skimmed along the
road, the bells jingled, the gates of the house were insight,
another minute and they would have reached the
avenue. And then — instead of his gentle wife, and
his innocent children, and universal respect, service,
comfort, and worship of every kind, would it be the
past in bodily presence that would have to be encountered,
painful explanations, revelations, which
might make a sudden rending asunder of the beauty
and the happiness of life ? Sir William wiped his
forehead again as they turned in at the gate to the
shelter of the familiar trees.

And still there was the dull rumbling of the fly
behind. He did not so much as hear it, having been
swept away on this torrent of thought. But Alice casta
troubled glance behind as she turned round to go in
at the open gate, and made sure that it was coming after
her. The girl's head was buzzing and her heart throbbing
with mingled fear and excitement. 'would you
mind driving up the avenue yourself, papa? I have
something to say to Mrs. Lowry at the gate," she said,
faltering. Her father scarcely seemed to hear her ; he
said, " Go on, go on," with an impatient wave of his

hand. She knew nothing about his alarms, nor he
about hers. Perhaps, after all, the anxious desire of
Alice to intercept what her hasty imagination had concluded
to be a messenger of evil had something in it of
that eager youthful curiosity which burns to forestall
every new event. But if so disappointment was her
fate. The little carriage flashed on under the trees and
through the slanting lines of sunshine in a breathless
silence, both its occupants being far too much absorbed
to speak. Half way up the avenue two figures were
visible advancing towards them. Lady Markham had
been joined by Colonel Lenny a few minutes before.
They stood aside, one on each side of the road as the
pony-carriage came up. And here on every other
occasion Sir William had got down and walked back
with his wife to the house. It was part of the formula
of his return, which was never omitted. This
time, however, when Alice drew up her impatient
ponies, he greeted his wife without moving from the
carriage.

"We have had a very tedious, dusty journey," he
said. " I will go home at once, my love, pardon me,
and shake my dust off."

Lady Markham, in the midst of her anxiety, grew
pale with surprise at this unusual proceeding. She
pressed close to the side of the little carriage —
William," she said, " do you know who it is that is
with me ? "

The baronet turned round to the long brown figure
on the other side. " Alice has told me," he said.
Lenny, is it possible ? I did not think I could have
recognised you after all these years."

Nor I you, my fine fellow," said the Colonel. *' I'd
have passed you if I had met you in Bond Street,
Markham ; but meeting you here, and knowing it's you,
makes a great deal of difference. We've both of us
altered in forty years."

Is it as long as that ? " Sir William said. There
was no pleasure in his face such as, these innocent ladies
thought, should always attend a meeting with an old
friend. But on the other hand he cast no doubt upon
Colonel Lenny (as indeed how could he, seeing the
Colonel's name was in the Army List ?), but addressed
him unhesitatingly, and acknowledged him, which set
the worst of Lady Markham's fears at rest. " Go on"
he said, in an undertone to his daughter, then waved

his hand to the pedestrians. " In ten minutes I shall
be with you," he cried.

The rumbling of the fly had stopped ; had it gone
further contrary to all Alice's anticipations ? This idea
gave her a little relief, but she was in so nervous a mood
that the sudden jerk with which she urged the ponies
forward once more upset To-to's temper, who was his
mistress's favourite. He darted on through the lines of
trees like a mad thing, wild with the jar to his delicate
mouth and the vicinity of his stables.

Do you want to break your own neck and mine ? "
Sir William said ; " that pony will not bear the whip." '■

Why shouldn't he bear it as well as Ta-ta ? "
said Alice ; 'ris he to be humoured because he is the
naughty one ? It should be the other way."

It seldom is the other way," said Sir William,
moralising with a self-reference, though Alice did not
understand it. "You spoke a greater truth than you
are aware of It is not the best people who are
humoured in life. It is the naughty ones who get their
way. If you make the worst of everything circumstances
will yield to you : but act anxiously for the best
and all the burden falls on your shoulders."

Papa ! that is like Thackeray ; it is cynical. I
never heard you speak so before."

Nevertheless it is true," said Sir William. His
straight and placid brow was ruffled with care. '' One
does everything one can to be secure from evil, and
evil comes."

Could he be thinking about Paul ? She turned her
ponies (to their great disappointment) as soon as Sir
William had stept out of the carriage. Charles indeed
had to come to To-to's head and lead him round, so
unwilling was that little Turk to turn away from his
comfortable stable again. " I will g^o back and bring;
mamma home, she was looking tired," the girl said.
She was impatient to make sure about the fly that had
followed from the station, and the lady in the pink
bonnet, and to be in the midst of it, at least, if anything
were going to happen. Her mother was still a
long way down the avenue. But Alice had scarcely
turned when she perceived that there were three figures
instead of two in the group she had so lately left.
Three figures — and a brilliant speck of colour making
itself apparent like a flag at the head of the little procession.
Alice felt her heart rush to the scene of action

more quickly than the ponies, which still resisted,
tossing their little wicked heads. The lady with the
pink bonnet had fallen into the advancing rank. She
was tall, and that oriflamme towered over Lady Markham's
hat with its soft gray feathers. But their pace
was quite moderate, unexcited, showing no sign of
trouble. Lady Markham moved along with no appearance
of agitation. Perhaps, after all, this new-comer,
Y\'hoever she might be, had nothing to do with the
absent brother, and was no messenger of evil tidings
after all.

My dear, this is Mrs. Lenny," said Lady Markham,
*' She has kindly taken us on her way to the north."

How do you do, my dear young lady ? The Colonel
'Wrote me word about you all, praising you up, one more
than another, and I thought I'd like to come and see.
But, Lenny, you never told me how like she was to her
father at her age. I think I see him before me, as
handsome a boy "

Mrs. Lenny ! " cried Alice, in consternation, yet
relief. She turned to her mother a pair of questioning,
wondering eyes. But Lady Markham could make no
answer. She slightly shrugged, so to speak, not her
shoulders, but her eyebrows. She was very polite and
very hospitable, but this second arrival was almost too

much for her. " I thought you looked tired, mamma,"
Alice continued. " I came back to drive you home."

Lady Markham shook her head. She was almost
cross — as near that unpleasant state as it was possible
for her to be. " Perhaps Mrs. Lenny would like to
drive, Ace ? She has had a long journey. I am not
at all tired. I will wait and meet your papa."

'' How cool it is under these delicious trees," said the
lady of the pink bonnet. "Yes, indeed, if the young
lady will have me, it will be a treat to be behind those
beautiful ponies. Pretty creatures 1 like their mistress.
I have not seen anything so pretty, Lenny, since we
left the regiment. Ah, that was a foolish step. But
one never knows when one is well off. 'Lay mew,' as
the French say, is the enemy of ' lay hieng.' Thank
you, my dear. Now this is delightful ! I wish,
instead of being within sight, we were three or four
miles from the house."

"Take Mrs. Lenny round by the fishpond," said
Lady Markham. She sighed with relief at getting rid
of this new claimant upon her attention, though she
was so polite. Mrs. Lenny was tall like her husband,
and like him, brown and soldierly. She made the

light little carriage bend on one side as she got
in. Her bro^^^l face within the pink shade of the
bonnet was wreathed with smiles. She was delighted
like a child with the pretty equipage, and the
promised drive — much more delighted than Alice was,
who, though relieved of her terrors about Paul, drove
off in no very happy state of mind. Yet she could not
help taking a little pleasure in her own discrimination.

I knew you were coming here the first moment I
saw you," she said. '' I kept asking papa who you
were. But he had not seen you — he did not know
you ; he never knows any one — not even, if he were
to see us at a distance, mamma or me."

Nor I," said Mrs. Lenny. " I should no more have
known him ! for you may be sure I took a good stare
at the station, seeing it was somebody of consequence.
He is so changed — oh, not for the worse, my dear ; but
when you see a nice little old gentleman instead of a
pretty young one, it's a shock, that can't be denied.
You have to count up and think back how many years
it is. Somehow one never feels old one's self You
think the world has stood still with you, though it goes
so fast with all the rest."

'' I don't feel at all like tliat/' said Alice. '' Sometimes
I feel so old — older a great deal, I am sure, than
mamma."

This statement was received by her companion with
laughter, which disconcerted Alice. She drew herself
up. She was not so polite as her mother.

I don't see what there is to laugh at," she said.
"Age does not go only by years — when you have a
great deal to think of "

You darling 1 " cried Mrs. Lenny. " Did the old
woman laugh ? But I'd laugh just the same if your
dear mamma herself was to talk of feeling old. There's
what I call a lovely woman ! Lenny never told me
half what a dear she was. Old ! but don't you gloom
at me, my pretty pet ; I was once seventeen myself,
though you wouldn't think it. The birds now on the
trees, I daresay they feel old between one Valentine's
day and another. It is not years that does it, as you
say. When we come to my time of life the days go on
one after another as fast as they can pelt : they're all
flying', flying', like the echoes in the song. But at your
age they're longer — they pass more slow — and when
there's much to think about did you say ? Ah, but

that's true ! When I was your age I had a great deal
to think about. We were a large family, six girls of
us, and not a penny among the lot. We were just
ruined With the emancipation in the West Indies, and
all that our parents said to us was, ' Get married !
There's the officers,' they said, ' a set of simpletons !
What's the good of them but to marry the poor girls
that know how to play their cards.' Ah ! I thought
when I was after Lenny that to be married meant to be
well off, and have everything that heart could desire.
And so we all thought. We weren't bad girls, don't
you think it ; but that was how were brought up. Get
married ! and you'll be well off directly. You never
had anything like that said to you to make you old
with thinking — "

Oh, no, no," said Alice, horrified. She scarcely
knew whether to be offended by the familiarity of the
stranger or interested in her talk. It was an experience
altogether different from anything Alice knew of life.

'' No, I should think not," said the lady of the pink
bonnet, nodding that article vigorously. " Just figure
to yourself, my dear, what you would feel if you had
to leave this beautiful place, and live down in a house

VOL. I. I

in the town, and have that said to you. You would be
shocked, wouldn't you ? But it did not shock us.
That was how we were brought up. We had to marry
by hook or by crook ; and we all did marry. Well,
there's Lenny, he has made me a very good husband ;
but marrying him wasn't like coming into a fortune,
was it now ? — though we've always been the best of
friends. It was lucky in one way that we never had
any children ; it left us free to look after ourselves.
Nowadays we live a great deal among our friends.
We don't interfere with each other, but we're always
glad to come together again. When I'm comfortable
anywhere I send him word, and when he's comfortable
he sends me word. You mustn't think my coming
means more than that, and you must tell your dear
mamma so. We've not come to do her any harm
or her pretty family. Your papa is startled to
see us, but he won't mind in the end. I daresay
you have often heard him talk of Barbadoes and
the Gavestons ? We were six handsome girls, though
I say it that shouldn't. You must have heard of us
by name."

Alice, whom this speech had filled with wonder,

shook her head. " I never heard the name in my
life' she said.

Well, that is odd," said Mrs. Lenny. " I couldn't
believe it even though Lenny said so. That's
thorough," she added, with a little laugh. A flush
came over her brown cheek. " Never mind, my
dear, it is not your fault," she said.

Alice was more and more mystified. She could not
imagine what this strange woman could mean. If sbe
had been at first disposed to resent her familiarity, that
offence had altogether evaporated. Mrs. Lenny looked
and spoke as if she had something to do with the
family ; her eyes and her tone were full of kindness
even when she evidently resented the fact that Alice
had never heard of her. She spoke of herself without
any kind of effort, as if it were natural that the girl
should be interested ; and Alice could not but wish to
hear more. It was like a new story, original and out
of the common. The momentary pause that ensued
alarmed her lest it should be coming to an end.

'* Did you all marry officers ? " she asked at last.

Did we all marry officers ? "We did that, everyone

— except the one that one that married Ah !

I 2

I mean Gussy, that was the youngest. She married — a
civilian — and died, poor girl. The rest of us all took
the shilling. Ah ! some of the girls are dead, and the
rest are scattered — one in Australia, two out in India,
me, wandering about the world as you see me, Lenny
and I ; most likely I'll never see one of them again.
We had but one brother; all the little the family had,
he got it. It was he that took Gussy's boy — did I tell
you she left a boy ? Poor Gussy ! she died at twenty.
It is like as if she never had married or been more
than a child. When I think of the past it's always
she that comes uppermost — the little one, you know,
the pet — and she never lived to get parted from us
like the rest.

Alice looked vaguely interested. It seemed to her
that she was hearing the prologue of a novel. She
did not draw any moral from it, or ask herself whether
her own brothers and sisters might ever be dispersed
like this about the world; but she wanted to hear
more.

Have the others no children ? " she asked.

"Dozens, my dear," said Mrs. Lenny, "here, and
there, and everywhere. I've nephews in the service in

every country under the sun, and nieces, all married in
the army ; it runs in our blood. But Gussy's boy is the
one I think of most. He's not a boy now. He's five-ands
thirty if he's a day, and my brother is dead that
adopted him, and the property has gone from bad to
worse, and I don't know what is to be done. Lenny's
head is full of him. Perhaps if I were to speak a good
word to your papa "

Could papa help him ? " cried Alice, eagerly ; " then
you may be sure, quite sure, that he will do it. I will
speak to him myself. They all say he always listens
to me."

Will you ? " said Mrs. Lenny. She grasped suddenly
at the firm little hand in which Alice held the reins,
and put down her head as if to kiss it, then looked up
with a nervous laugh, winking her eyes rapidly to castoff
some tears. " You are a dear little angel ! " she
cried. " But Lenny will do that, and I'll do it. I won't
ask it of you, my pretty darling. It would be more
than was right."

Alice was somewhat affronted at this rejection of her
proposal. She was bewildered by her companion's demeanour
altogether. Why should she cry? and then

refuse her assistance when she could have been of real
use ? But that was, of course, as Mrs. Lenny pleased.

This is the fishpond," she said, more coldly. " It
is very old, and there are some carp in it that are
supposed to be very old too."

The fishpond was a piece of clear and beautiful water
embosomed in the richest wood. It was the very centre
of all the beauties of the Chase to the Markhams. A
little brook trickled into it over a little fall which made
music in the silence, itself unseen, mingling a more
liquid silvery tone with all the songs of the birds and
the murmur of the trees. A little path wandered along
by one side, the others were sloping banks of greensward.
The trees on all sides stooped as if leaning over
each other's shoulders to see themselves in that fairy
mirror, where they all fluttered and trembled in reflection
between the glimmer of the water and the blue
circle of sky, which filled up all the middle with blueness
and light. Some light and graceful birches upon
the bank seemed to have pressed further forward like
advanced posts to get nearest the pool ; a great cluster
of water lilies filled up one corner. Even the impatient
ponies stood still in this soft coolness and shadow ',

perhaps they had caught a glimpse of their pretty
tossing heads and arched necks. Mrs. Lenny's bonnet
shone in that mirror like an exotic bird, poised over it,
and her exclamation of delight broke the quiet with
something the same effect.

o

What a lovely place ! " she said ; " and it's I that
would live long if I were a fish in such a sweet spot.
Dear, dear, if one lived here it would be a tug to die
at all. And you have been here, my darling, all
your life ? "

Oh, yes," said Alice, with a little laugh at the
ignorance of the question. " This is home, where else
could I be ? This is only the second season I have ever
been to town. I went for a little while last year though
I was not out. This summer I have been introduced,"
she said, with a little innocent ostentation. " I am out
now. I go wherever mamma goes."

*' Introduced ? " said Mrs. Lenny, with a little awe,
"to her Majesty — her very self? Tell me how she
looked, and all about her. Dear lady ! what I'd give
to hear a word out of her mouth ! "

I did not mean that," said Alice, feeling important
and splendid ; " introduced means going out into

society. I was presented too — of course I had to be
presented. Oh, there are the children down that
opening— do you see them? It is hoHday time,
and they are all together."

Mrs. Lenny looked round with eager interest, again
swaying the little carriage to one side.

"Are you the eldest?" she said; "and you have
two little brothers ? — only these two ? "
She looked quite anxiously in Alice's face.
Only these two — except Paul — and we are three
girls — just the same number of each."
"Who is Paul?"

Who is Paul ? " said Alice, laughing ; " that is the
strangest question here. Paul is the eldest of all — he
is my brother. We all come in pairs. There is Harry
and Bell, Roland and Marie — and Paul is mine. He is
not very much at home now," she said, her face clouding
with the recollection. "He is grown up — he is at
Oxford. In the holidays he does not always come
home like the little ones. No one could expect him to
be like the little ones. He is a man."

To a cooler observer Alice's eager explanations would
have betrayed the family anxiety, of which Paul was

the object. But Mrs. Lenny had other thoughts in her
mind. She clasped her hands together in her lap, and
said, *' Dear me, dear, dear me ! " with suppressed dismay.
This suddenly reawakened all the girl's fears.
Had it been a mistake, a pretence after all ? Was it no
old connection, nothing to do with papa's business ?
(what could papa's business matter, it would not go to
any one's heart like the other) but after all some new
evil that was threatening Paul ?

Mrs. Lenny," she cried, " oh tell me first, for I can
bear it ; is it about Paul ? Has he got into any trouble ?
Is it something about him you have really come to tellus
! Oh, tell me, tell me ! and keep it from mamma."

My dear," cried Mrs. Lenny, confused, '' what do I
know about your brother ? I never heard of him
before, and oh, I wish I had not heard of him now.
Do you think I would harm him if I had the power to
help it ? Not I — not I ! if there was anything in
my power ! "

And with this the good woman let fall upon her
gloves, which were green, a few tears. Why should she
cry because of Paul if she did not know him ? Fortunately
for Alice the ponies at that moment gave her

no small trouble. She had been thinking of other
things and they took the advantage. They wanted to
take her home the back way into the stables. Greedy
little brutes ! as if they had not everything that heart
of pony could desire — plenty of corn, plenty of ease,
and the prettiest stable with enamelled mangers and
everything handsome about them. She stopped them
as they began to twist round in the wrong direction,
tossing their heads aloft. If they thought to take Alice
unawares they were mistaken. Thus she was obliged
to withdraw her attention altogether from Mrs. Lenny
and fix it upon this rebellious pair, getting them past
the dangerous byway and bringing them up with a
sweep and dash to the steps of the great door.

Meanwhile Sir William Markham had been strangely
employed. He came home to get himself brushed free
of the dust of his journey; but when he got to the
house he thought of that errand no more. He asked
for his letters as if these were all that he was thinking
of. And you may suppose that in a house which knew
the importance of letters, and was aware of all the
momentous issues of neglect in that particular, Sir
William's letters were carefully arranged on the table
in the library. He asked for them, which was unnecessary,
and looked so full of business and importance,
that Brown found "a screw loose" in his master too.
This was not his usual aspect when he came home.
Then the busy statesman allowed himself a holiday.
Even when he was in office (much more being in

opposition), he had put off his burden of official cares, and
had strolled up the avenue with his wife without caring
for his letters. When Brown answered respectfully,
They are in the library, Sir William ; " within himself
that functionary shook his head and said, " There is
something wrong." Sir William went into the library,
which was large and dim and cool, the very home of
quiet leisure and comfort — and closed the door after
him with a sense of relief His letters were all laid out
on the table, but he did not so much as look at them.
He sat down in his usual chair, and leaned his head in
his hands, and gazed into the blank air before him.
Was this all he had come for ? Certainly he did nothing
more : gazed out straight before him and saw nothing ;
sat motionless doing nothing ; paused altogether body
and soul. He was not aware yet of the second visitor
who had arrived; but he was in no doubt about the
first. He did not require to ask himself what his old
friend, — whose name had tingled through and through
him, though he had professed that he scarcely remembered
it — wanted of him. That early chapter of
his life which he had put away entirely, which he had
honestly forgotten as if it had not been, came back to

him in a moment, no longer capable of being forgotten
as he sat by his daughter's side in the little pony
carriage. He had not meant any harm in putting it so
entirely from him. But nothing is ever lost in this
tenacious world. Bury a secret in the deepest earth,
and some chance digger, thinking of other things, will
bring it up without intending it. Exercise even the
most innocent reticence about your own affairs, matters
in which you have a perfect right to judge for yourself,
and some time or other even this will come up against
you like a crime. What harm had he done by burying
in his own heart a little inconsequent chapter of his
life, an episode that had come to an end so soon, that
had left so few results behind ? What results had it
left ? The only one had been promptly and conclusively
taken off his hands. He had never felt it ; he had
never been conscious of any responsibility in respect toit.
But that which had seemed to him nothing but a
broken thread at twenty-five, was it to reappear against
him at sixty like a web of fate perplexing and entangling
his feet ? A cold dew came out upon his forehead when
he thought of his wife. Were she to hear it, were she
to know, how could he ever ao^ain look her in the face ?

And yet he had done her no wrong. There had been
no harm, no evil intention in his mind. Half inadvertence,
and half a dislike to return to a matter which
was an irritation to his orderly mind, as well as a
recollection of pain — an incident that had come to
nothing, a false beginning in life — were the causes of
his original silence about his own youth and all that
was in it. A man who marries at forty, is it necessary
that he should unfold everything that happened to him
at twenty-five ? and he had been done with it all ; had
closed the chapter altogether so very long ago. That it
should be re-opened now was intolerable. But yet Sir
William knew that he must bear it ; he must subdue
ail signs of annoyance, he must receive his unwelcome
visitor as if he were pleased to see him, and ascertain
what he wanted, and steal, if possible, his weapons
out of his hands.

These were the thoughts in his mind as he sat alone
and pondered, arranging his ideas. He had known
what it was to be much troubled by public business
in his day, but he had experienced little trouble with
his own. All was orderly and well regulated in his
private affairs : no skeletons in the cupboards, nothing

anywhere that could not meet the eye of day. This
was the very sting of the present occurrence to him.
A secret ! That he should be convicted of a hidden
chapter of early indiscretion, of having taken a foolish
step which might have coloured all his life ! Though
it was no wrong to her, his Avise could scarcely fail to
think it a Avrong, and he could not but suffer in the
estimation of everybody who heard of it. Already, was
he not humiliated in his own eyes ? But for this pause
which enabled him to rearrange his thoughts, to settle
his plan of operations, he felt that he must have been
overwhelmed altogether. At last, with a sigh, he got
up and prepared himself to issue forth out of his
sanctuary, and meet the dangers that threatened him ;
he to be threatened with dangers of such a sort ! — It
was intolerable — yet it had to be borne. He went out
to meet the party which he could hear coming up the
avenue. Brown looked at him with suspicious eyes as
lie came into the hall. Could Brown know anything ?
did everybody know? Even Lady Markham, he
thought, looked at him strangely, almost with alarm.
But it is unnecessary to say that this was all in Sir
William's imagination. No one had as yet associated

any idea of mystery with him. His wife only thought
he was weary with the work of the session, and looking
pale. She was standing talking to Colonel Lenny,
waiting till Alice should draw up at the door. Sir
William, with a faint gleam of returning pleasure, stood
on the top of the steps and waited too; but then he
was confronted by the vision of the pink bonnet by his
daughter's side. A pink bonnet \ who had been talking
of a pink bonnet ? He came down slowly, half afraid
of this and everything else that was new.

"In good time, Markham," said Colonel Lenny,
waving his hand; 'there is another old friend come to
see you. She is changed more than you are. From a
girl, and a pretty one, she has grown an old woman,
and that's not a thing to be permitted; but an old
friend, my dear fellow, and more than an old friend.
Can't you see it's Kateyyyy ? Kateyyyy, my wife ? "

Kateyy ! " Even Sir William's steady nerves gave
way a little. His eyes seemed to give a startled leap
of alarm in their sockets. For a moment the impulse
in his mind was to turn and fly. Lenny was bad, but
his wife was a hundred times worse ; and she looked at
him, leaning out of the pony carriage and holding out

her hands as if she meant to kiss him ; but that was
more than flesh and blood could bear. '' Kateyy ! " he
said ; "I cannot believe my eyes. Is it Kateyy Gaveston
after all these years ? I know I've grown an old man,
and everything has changed, but "

You never thought to see the like of me such an
old woman? Ah, Will, but it's true. I am Kateyy
Gaveston, as sure as you stand there. I came after
him, to stop him from making mischief. He don't
mean it — wee know that; but he's just as simple as
ever. He blurts everything out."

This speech went through and through Sir William.
The light seemed to fail from his eyes for a moment ;
but when he looked round all was as before — Lady
Markham talking to Brown, and Alice to the groom,
who had come for the pony carriage.

Hush ! " he said, instinctively, with a shudder,
giving her his hand to help her to step out. '' Hush ! "
Then, making a little effort over himself, he added,
"We are to have time, I hope, to talk over old stories
quietly — at our leisure — no need to go back in a
moment from the present to the past."

"Nearly forty years — it's a long way to go back,"

VOL. L K

lie said. " We've grown old folks ; but it's better to
take our time and talk it all over quietly, as you say.
Yes, yes, quietly; that is by far the best way."

Mrs. Lenny nodded till her bonnet seemed to fill all
the atmosphere with pink mists of reflection, and
laughed, filling the air with reverberations of sound,
just as her bonnet did with flickering of coloured
light ; but she did not throw her arms round him
in sisterly salutation; this was something saved at
least.

Then he led her in ceremoniously to the great
drawing-room, which was carefully shaded and cool
and luxurious after the blaze outside. It was sweet
with great bowls of late roses, full of flowers of every
kind — a stately room such as Mrs. Lenny was not
accustomed to see. She stopped short with a cry of
admiration.

What a lovely place ! What a beautiful — beautiful
house ! " Then she put her handkerchief to her
eyes. ''To think, poor dear, who might have been
the mistress of it all ! " she said.

Sir William cast an alarmed glance behind him, but
his wife was too far off to hear.

"You must recollect," he said, "that then I had
no house at all — no place to make — any one the
mistress of. I never expected then to be master
here."

Mrs. Lenny sat down and wiped her eyes.

It is a beautiful house," she said. " I've been
into the park, and seen a great deal; and when I
think of all that's come and gone, when I remember
that 3'ou were nothing but a poor man, Will Markham,
just as poor as all the rest of us — and to see you now,
like a prince, With your lovely wife, and her sweet
family — oh ! I know you'll forgive me, my dear lady ;
if your heart is as sweet as your face, you'll forgive
me ; but I can't help thinking that v/hat is given to
one is taken from another ; and of them that never
had a chance of happiness — them that are dead and
gone — and the place where they might have been —
remembers them no more."

Lady Markham, who could not shut her heart to any
distress, came and sat down by her and took her hand,

I know what you mean," she said. " When I
have any sorrow it always comes upon me afresh ina
new place."

K 2

How far she was from knowing what her visitor
meant !

Mrs. Lenny looked up surprised. Then two big
honest tears burst out of her eyes, and her whole
face lighted up with a smile.

You are a darling' she said, seizing Lady Markham's
soft hand in both of hers, " with a heart as
feeling ! But I am not crying for anything in particular,
my dear — only out of excitement, and the
strangeness of everything. You must not be so sorry
for me*'

Here Colonel Lenny interposed, and pointed out
to Lady Markham the tea-table which was awaiting
her.

Give her a big cup, my dear lady ; that is what
makes Kateyy happy," he said. "What would she be
without her tea ? We men take something stronger,
I don't deny it ; but we're not so dependent upon anything.
I could live without my smoke, and I could
live without my drink — times have been when I've
lived without eating too; but I can't fancy my wife
without a tea-pot."
'' Not altogether without eating, I hope. Take

some cake now," said Lady Markham, smiling, ''■ to
make amends."

'' I will have the cake, — but yes, altogether without
eating — for as long as it lasted — that was two days ;
the time is apt to feel long when you've nothing to
eat. I've always thought the more of breakfast and
dinner and all the little bits of ornamental eating and
drinking that we make no account of, since then. Oh
I've told all about it to the boys. I'm getting to an
end of my stories," said the colonel. "Roland begins
to know them better than I ; he says, ' That's not how
you told it before.' That boy is as sharp as a needle ;
he's the one you should make a lawyer of, my dear
lady. Now Harry's a born soldier ; he's up to everything
that wants doing; with the hands. Put him
before a lion, and he'll face it, that little fellow ; and
he takes in every word you say to him. But Roland
by Jove, cross-examines you as if you were in a
witness-box : 'you said so-and-so before,' or ' How
could yoa do that when you had just done so-and-so ? '
He's as keen as an east wind."

That is a very biting metaphor," said Lady Markham
; but it did not occur to her that the colonel was

talking against time to beguile her attention and keep
the conversation which was going on at the other side
of the room undisturbed. There it was Sir William
who was serving Mrs. Lenny with the tea his wife had
poured out.

She knows nothing," he said, in a low tone. " I
did not think it was worth while telling her. For
God's sake do not let her surmise it now."

"I wouldn't if I could help it, Will; but the
boy — there's the boy."

What boy ? You mean Philip's boy ? "

Mrs. Lenny put out her hand and grasped his.

Haven't you heard ? Philip's dead, and the property
all sold up, and nothing left for one belonging to
him. He never learnt, like the rest of us, to scrape
and save. It's all gone — every penny. There was not
so much to begin with, when you think upon it ; and
there he is, without a sou."

My God ! " said Sir William under his breath.
He was not a man given to oaths, but he was suddenly
overwhelmed by the danger that over-shadowed him
which he had not thought of before. The evil he had
feared was as nothing in comparison. He grew pale

A

to his very finger-nails. '' This is why you have come
to me ? " he said.

Nothing but that — do I want to bother you ? but
Fie must be thought of, too. Will, the boy must not
lose his rights."

"He must be provided for," said the baronet,
gloomily ; " but he has no rights."

'' Will ! do you mean to bring his mother out of her
grave ? No rights ! We came in friendship, but
we'll go in anger if there is any meaning in you to
disown the boy."

''I cannot say any more now," said Sir William,
hastily. "I will talk to Lenny to-night."

I don't put my faith in Lenny for that matter.
Will, you must satisfy me."

I will, I will, Kateyy ! For God's sake no more."

Alice had come up to them in her easy grace of
youth. She heard, if not the words, yet the tone in
which they were said ; and her father got up hastily
and got behind the stranger to whom he was speaking
so seriously, but who smiled u23on the girl from her
great chair.

'come and talk to me, my pretty," Mrs. Lenny

said. " Your father and I have been reminding each
other of things we had both forgotten, and they're
not such pleasant things as you. Come and cheer
us up, my bonnie dear."

Lady Markham was very well content to see the
close conversation that was going on between her
husband and this new guest. It took a great burden
off her mind. This time she had made no mistake —
the claim of the old friendship was real. No suspicion
of any kind entered her thoughts. She leaned back
in her chair with a grateful sense of relief, and felt
glad that she had sent orders by Brown that Mrs.
Lenny was to be put into one of the best rooms, thus
promoting the colonel too. There remained only one
little difficulty : Mrs. Lenny's pink bonnet was a very
fine article indeed, but she could not come to dinner in
it. Where was she to find a toilette for the evening,
since all her luggage. Lady Markham knew, consisted of
a bag which she had left -with«iiLe-Jo<%e-keeper ?
***^L^(iyMarkham herself was somewhat particular about
dress. She wonTfer-fiyi^rivately what it would be best
to do, as she leant back in her chseiiiiiiajiidJistened to
the colonel talking of Koland and Harry. She must

put on, lie concluded, the plainest article in her wardrobe,
that Mrs. Lenny might not feel uncomfortable,
and she must give Alice a hint to do the same. Thus
the alarming sensations aroused by this meeting
subsided, to all appearance.

Yes, you did quite right ; they are old friends, very
old friends," Sir William said from his dressing-room,
in answer to his wife's question. '' Did I never tell you
I spent two years in Barbadoes ? Indeed I suppose I
had almost forgotten myself. My uncle had left some
property there, and not being of much consequence then
I was sent out to look after it. It came to nothing,
like most West Indian property. The Gavestons were
a family of handsome girls. I — saw a good deal of
them ; most of the young Englishmen who were there
frequented their house. Lenny among the rest. I
scarcely recollected his name ; but Kateyy Gaveston of
course I was bound to know."

She implied, I think, that there once had been
some — flirtation between you," said Lady Markham,
with a smile.

"Ah ! " said Sir William — his voice sounded harsher
than usual, though he was painfully civil and ready

to explain — "perhaps there might have been — something.
It is nearly forty years ago — it is not of much
consequence to any one now."

''No — you don't think I mind," she said, this time
with a soft laugh. But he did not respond. He had
not finished dressing, and he was very particular in his
attire. His wife had taken a slight liberty, she felt, in
disturbing him. Did she not know that he liked perfect
tranquillity in that moment of preparation for
dinner ? It would not have occurred to him to put on
a black neck-tie, or change the usual solemn dignity of
his appearance on account of any visitor. Lady Markham
was glad that her own very simple dress escaped
notice, at least.

The other pair meanwhile were comparing notes in
their rooms, where Mrs. Lenny's preparations for dinner
were by no means so simple as Lady Markham had
supposed. The bag, on being opened, had proved to
contain what she called " an evening body," much
trimmed with lace and ribbons. She regarded this
article with great complacency as she pinned the
ribbons across her bosom.

"I hope you don't feel that you've any call to be

ashamed of your wife, Lenny," she said. " I hope I'm
fit to sit down with my lady, or the Queen herself if
she were to think of asking us. There's the good of a
real, excellent black silk, it does for anything ; in the
morning it's one dress, in the evening it's another. My
Lady Markham will think I have trunks full when she
sees me. She's a sweet woman ; I thought so before,
but I think so more than ever now, to see the handsome
room she's put us in. That proves her sense. She
can see I'm not one of the common sort. She doesn't
know anything about the connection, and she shan't
know it through me, to vex her, the pretty dear. She
doesn't even know he was ever in the island. After
all, it's a long time ago. She shall never hear a word
of it through me."

That would be all very well," said the colonel, "if
there was only you and I; but you forget there's
another to think of."

'* I don't forget ; but there's a deal more to think of
than I supposed. Why shouldn't he stay where he is ?
It's the life he's used to. And what would he do here ?
Money will never be wanting ; and a little money would
make him a great man where he is. Don't interrupt

me with your reasons, Lenny. He's my flesh and blood,
not yours ; and I won't do it, I haven't the heart to doit.
A lovely woman, and a pretty family as you could
see. Don't you know there's the heir grown up — Paul
they call him ? If it had been but a small boy I
shouldn't have minded. And the other, what does he
know about it ? It can't hurt him, what he doesn't
know. And he isn't at an age to change his habits.
He's no lad — he's a man as old as you or I."

Twenty years younger, and more."

What's twenty years ? " said Mrs. Lenny, indignantly.
"He's not an old man, if you please, but
neither is he young. He's a man at his best — or his
worst, perhaps. We haven't seen him since he was a
boy. All's fixed and settled about him. And to
change his country, and his condition, and his way of
living all in a moment ! — who could do that ? scarcely
the best man that ever was. He wouldn't knows how to
behave ; he wouldn't understand what was expected of
him. He'd be miserable — and so would the others
too."

I can't argue with you, Kateyy," said her husband ;
'you're so used to having your own way. I won't

attempt to argue with you ; but I know what's justice
and justice must surely be the best."

"Oh, justice!" cried the colonel's wife, 'where do
you find it in this world ? Is it justice that you're only
lieutenant-colonel of a West India regiment, when you
ought to have been a general in the army ? Don't
speak to me. I know you better than any one else
does, and when I say that's what you're fit for you maybe
sure I'm not flattering. Does a man get flattery
from his wife ? We may get justice in another world,
and I for one hope for it ; but not here. And here's
just a case where justice would do more harm than
good. It would do harm to both sides, and punish
everybody. It would be real injustice and cruelty,
and all that's bad; and would you be the one to
force it — and I to recommend it ? No, no ; I tell
you no ! "

"I can't argue with you, Kateyy," her husband
repeated. " Have it your own way. It's not my flesh
and blood, as you say, but yours. But if it turns out
badly, and you repent after "

Bless us all," cried Mrs. Lenny, starting to her feet,
there's the dinner bell ! "

I would advise you to put your cap on straight," -
was all the colonel said.

When this couple entered the dining-room, Mrs.
Lenny felt proudly that she had achieved one of the
successes of her life. Lady Markham looking up at
her as she marched in on her husband's arm, with
flowers rustling on her cap and lace on her shoulders,
gave one look of bewildered admiration, Mrs. Lenny
thought, then glanced at Alice to communicate her
wonder. ('' I knew she'd think I'd brought my whole
wardrobe," she said to the colonel after, '' and for that
matter, that is fit to be seen, so I have") The '' evening
body," the lace, and the ribbons took Lady Markham
altogether by surprise ; and it cannot be said that her
own simple toilet was appreciated by her visitor. But
Mrs. Lenny was very kind after dinner, and explained
the simple artifice to her hostess, by way of giving a
lesson to one of the best dressed of women.

You look very nice in your muslin, my dear," she
said, " and so does that pretty darling, that would look
well in anything ; but when you come to my time of
life it makes a difference ; and roaming about from
place to place how could I have room for muslins? not

to say that washing is a ruination. I have one evening
body made with good black silk. It costs a little
more at the time, but what does that matter? And
there you are, both for morning and evening, quite
set up."

"It is a very admirable plan, I am sure," Lady
Markham said, with great seriousness, checking with
a look the laugh that was in Alice's eyes. The
children were in the drawing-room, all four of them,
very ready to make friends with their beloved
colonel's wife.

I feel as if I had something to do with them. I
feel as if I were their grandmother, though I never had a
child of my own, she said." Thus everything went harmoniously
in the drawing-room, though the ladies were
all a little curious to know what kept the gentlemen so
long over their wine. Sir William's coffee grew cold ;
he had never been known to be so late before.

They're talking over old days," Mrs. Lenny had
said three or four times before the gentlemen appeared.
What could be more natural ? No doubt they had
gone from recollection to recollection: *'Do you remember"
this and that, and "what happened to" so-and-so
? It was very easy to imagine what they were
talking about, and how they got led on from one subject
to another. They were heard talking, when they
at last appeared, all the way up the long drawing-room,
pausing at the door.

'' All died out, I believe," Colonel Lenny was saying.
The last son lost his children one after another, and
died himself at the last broken-hearted, poor man !
The daughters were all scattered — but Kateyy knows
more about them than I do."

I am really afraid to ask any more questions," Sir
William said. What more natural ?

Yes, my dear lady," Colonel Lenny resumed, taking
his old place beside Lady Markham ; 'ewe have been
making the most of our time ; for it is very likely we
may have letters tomorrow, my wife and I, summoning
us away. I don't like it, and neither will she, and perhaps
we may have another day, but I scarcely think it
likely. I don't know how we're to drag ourselves away.
You have been kinder than any one ever was ; and the
children have got a hold of my old heart, bless them ! "

The colonel had genuine tears in his eyes.

"Lenny will tell you what I propose," said Sir
AYilUam on the other side. " It is not an easy position.
I have always thought myself quite safe — quite free of
responsibility ; and now to be pulled up all at once ;
and when I think of my own boys "

Your own boys ? " said Mrs. Lenny, raising herself
very erect in her chair. '' Oh, I feel for you — I feel
for you. Will ! but if you put the least bit of a slur on
my sister or her chill "

Don't make it worse," he said, throwing up his
hands. / throw a slur ! You know I never thought

VOL. I. L

of anything so impossible — it is impossible ; but bow
could I think of bim as mine? Adoption bas its
rights — but Lenny will tell you what I propose."

A short time after there were affectionate good-nights
between the ladies. Lady Markham accompanied
Mrs. Lenny to ber room to see that sbe bad everything
sbe could desire.

''I am so sorry you must go tomorrow," sbe said,
half out of politeness, but with a little mixture of
truth, for there was something in the genial warmth
of the strange couple wbicb touched ber heart.

My dear, it's just possible we may bave another
day," said the old campaigner.

Tbe mother and daughter bad a harmless little laugh
together over Mrs. Lenny's *' evening body," but they
agreed that "papa's old friends" were real friends, and
adopted them with cordiality tbougb amusement.

Sbe asked me a great deal about the family and
about Paul," Alice said as they separated.

*' No letter again to-day," said Lady Markham, with
a sigh.

That name subdued their smiles. To think be should
be the best beloved, yet so careless of their happiness !

''He is so forgetful," they both said.

And with this so common family sigh, not any present
or pressing trouble, only a fear, an anticipation, a doubt
^Yhat tomorrow might bring forth, the doors of the
peaceful chambers closed, and night and quiet settled
down on the silent house.

No one knew, however, that the night was not so
silent as it appeared. Sir William, of course, was left
in his library when all the rest of the world went to
bed. It was his habit. He wrote his letters, or he
got up " those questions which were always arising,
and which every statesman has to know ; or perhaps he
only dozed in his great chair ; but anyhow, it was his
habit to sit up later than all the rest of the household,
putting out his lamp himself when he went to bed.
This night, however, after midnight when all was still,
there was a mysterious conference held in the library.
Mrs. Lenny came down the great staircase in her stockings
not to make a noise. ''I wouldn't disturb that
pretty creature, not for the world," she said. ''I
wouldn't let her know there was a mystery, not for
anything you could give me." And she spoke in a
whisper during the course of the prolonged discussion,

L 2

though Lady Markham was on the upper floor on the
other side of the house, and safe in bed. It was
Colonel Lean who was the most stubborn of the conspirators.
He spoke of right and justice with such
eloquence that his wife was proud of him, even though
it was she eventually who put him down, and stopped
his argument. It was almost morning — a faint blueness
of the new day striking in through all the windows
and betraying them, when the Lennys with their shoes
in their hands stole up stairs to bed. It would have
been strange indeed if some conscientious domestic had
not seen this very strange proceeding in the middle of
the night ; but if they did so, they kept the fact to
themselves. Sir William took no such precautions.
He shut the heaves door of the library almost ostentatiously,
awaking all the silent echoes, and went
up the great staircase with his candle in his hand.
The rising dawn, however, cast a strange, almost ghastly
look upon his face, doing away with the candle. He
had told his wife that he had brought some papers
from town that had to be attended to, and which
had to be sent back to London by next morning's
post.

Next morning the Lennys appeared at the breakfast-table
in travelling-garb, ready to go away. Mrs. Lenny
had put on her pink bonnet not to lose time.

Have you had your letters ? " Lady Markham said,
astonished.

No, my dear, we have had no letters ; that was to
be the sign if we were wanted," Mrs. Lenny explained.
Sir William did not say a word. He did not join in
the regret expressed by all the rest, or in the invitations
proffered. " You must come back — promise us that
you will come back," the children cried ; but their
father maintained a steady silence which discouraged
his wife.

The whole family accompanied the travellers to the
door to see them drive away.

"I hope we shall see you again," Lady Markham
said ; then added, oppressed by her husband's silence,
when you come this way."

My dear lady," said the colonel, kissing her hand
like a Frenchman, " I shall never forget your kindness,
nor my wife either ; but most likely we shall never pass
this way again. There is nothing in the world I should
like better; but I don't know if it is to be desired."

God bless you ! " said Mrs. Lenny, taking both
Lady Markham's hands, " it's not at all to be desired.
Once for old friendship's sake is very well. But if
I ever come here again it will not be as an old friend,
but for love of you."

That is the best reason of all," Lady Markham
said, with her beautiful smile. And she stood there
waving her pretty hand to the strange couple as they
drove down the avenue. Mrs. Lenny's pink bonnet
made a dotted line of colour all the way as she bobbed
it out of the carriage window in perpetual farewells.
This made the young ones laugh, though they had been
near crying. Sir William alone said nothing. He had
gone in again at once when the carriage left the
door.

It was that very evening, however, that the letters
arrived which cast the family into so great a commotion
and obliterated all recollection of the Lennys. It
had pleased Lady Markham that her husband, of
himself, had begun to speak of Paul the next time
they met after the departure of their guests. There
was a certain tenderness in his tone, a something
which was quite unusual. " Have you heard from him

lately ? " he asked with some anxiety, " poor boy ! "
This was so unusual that Lady Markham would not
spoil so excellent a disposition by any complaint of
Paul's irregularity in correspondence. She replied that
she had heard — not very long ago ; that he was still in
Oxford ; that she hoped he would return for Alice's
birthday, which was approaching. Sir William did
not say any more then, but he spoke of Paul again at
luncheon, saying — "Poor fellow!" this time. "He
has very good abilities if he would only make the
right use of them," he said.

"Oh, William I" cried Lady Markham, "he is still
so young ; why should not he make very good use
of them yet ? We were not so very wise at his age."

That is true. I was not at all wise at his age :
poor Paul ! " his father said.

The ladies were quite cheered by this exhibition of
interest in Paul, who had not been, they felt, so good
or submissive to his father as it was right for a young
man to be. " He is letting his heart speak at last,"
Lady Markham said when she was alone with her
daughter; "he is longing to see his boy; and oh,
Alice ! so am I."

May I write to him," cried Alice, eagerly, " and
tell him he is to come home ? "

They talked this over all the afternoon. Paul had
not listened to any of their previous entreaties, but
perhaps now, if he were told how his father had
melted, if he knew how everybody was longing for
him ! There were two letters written that afternoon,
full of tenderness, full of entreaties. '* If your reading
is so important I will not say a word, you shall go
back, you shall be left quite free ; but oh, my dearest
boy ! surely you can spare us a week or two," Lady
Markham wrote. Their spirits rose after these letters
had been despatched. It did not seem possible that
Paul could turn a deaf ear to such entreaties ; and by
this time surely he, too, must be longing for home.
The future had not seemed so bright to them since
first these discords began. Now, surely, if Paul would
but respond as became an affectionate son, everything
would be right.

Markham Chase was situated in one of those
districts where the post comes in at night — a very bad
thing, as is well known for the digestion, and a great
enemy to sleep and comfort. No one, however, had

the philosophy to do without his or her letters on that
account. The cities naturally never took it in consideration
at all, and Sir William's official correspondence
did not affect his nerves. Lady Markham
and her daughter came early into the drawing-room
that evening, while it was still daylight, though evening
was advancing rapidly. The children, who felt severely
the loss of Colonel Lenny and his stories, and were low
spirited and out of temper in consequence, went soon
to bed. Lady Markham retired into her favourite
room — the large recess which made a sort of transept
to the great drawing-room. It was filled at the further
end by a large Elizabethan window, the upper part of
which was composed of quarries of old painted glass
in soft tints of greenish white and yellow ; and which
caught the very last rays of daylight — the lingering
glories of the west. Soft mossy velvet curtains framed
in, but did not shade the window, for Lady Markham
was fond of light — and shrouded the entrance dividing
this Iron the great drawing-room beyond. The fire-place
all glimmering with tiles below and bits of mirror
above, with shelves of delicate china and pet ornaments,
filled the great part of one side, while the other was

clothed with bookcases below and pictures above,
closely set. One of Raphael's early Madonnas (or a
copy — there was no certainty on the subject, Lady
Markham holding to its authenticity with more fervour
than any other article of faith, but disinterested critics
holding the latter opinion) presided over the whole ;
and there were some pretty landscapes, and a great
many portraits — the true household gods of its mistress.
There she had seated herself in the soft waning lio^ht
of the evening. Alice just outside the velvet curtains
was playing softly, now an old stately minuet, now an
old-fashioned, quaint gavotte, now a snatch of a
languid, dreamy valse — music which did not mean
much, but which breathed echoes of soft pleasures
past into the quiet. The soft summer twilight fading
slowly out of the great window, the cool breathing of
the dews and night air from the garden, the dreamy
music — all lulled the mind to rest. Lady Markham
made not even a pretence at occupation. What was
she thinking of? When a woman has her boys out in
the world — those strange, unknown, yet so familiar
creatures whom she knows by heart yet knows nothing
of, who have dipped into a thousand things incomprehensible

to her, filling her with vague fears and aches
of anxiety — of what but of them is she likely to bethinking
? She was groping vaguely after her Paul in
strange places which her imagination scarcely took in.
When the other boys were away they too had their
share in her thoughts ; but they were still in the age
of innocence at school, not young men abroad in the
world. Where was he now ? She tried to figure to
herself a scene of youthful gaiety — one of the college
parties she had read of in novels. She was the more
bold to think of this, as she felt that her appeal to
Paul just despatched would surely detach him, for a
time at least, from all such noisy scenes. Lady
Markham's imagination was not her strong point.
She was floating vaguely in a maze of fancies rather
than forming for herself any definite picture, when
Brown came into the room with the letters. The music
stopped instantly, and Alice, rushing at them, uttered a
tremulous cry which made the mother at once aware
what had happened. Only Paul could have called
forth that cry of trembling satisfaction, delight, and
alarm. Lady Markham got up at once and held out
her hands for the letters, while Alice ran to light the

candles. " I can see, I can see," Lady Markham said.
The mere fact that the letter was Paul's made it more
or less luminous in itself and helped the fading light.

Sir William, seated in his library by himself, had
been thinking, with a difference, much the same
thoughts. With a compunction and compassion indescribable,
he had been thinking of his son. Paul, withall
his foolish democratical notions, was yet the most
aristocratic, the most imperious of young men, knowing
nothing of the evils he was so ready to take upon him,
generous in giving, but to whom it would be bitterness
itself to receive. Would Paul ever turn upon him,
upbraid him, curse him ? A shiver came over his
father at the thought — and along with this a horrible
sense of the position in which this haughty young

heir would find himself, if How was it that

such a possibility had altogether escaped his mind?
He could not tell : he did not know how to answer
himself. Forty years is a large slice out of a man's
life. Even had it been some one fully known and
loved, it would be unlikely that you should think of
hem with any persistency of reference after a separation
of forty years — and a child, an infant, a thing

with no personality at all ! But still, he asked himself,
had he never thought when Paul was born of the
former time, far away in the morning haze of youth,
when a young mother and a child had called forth his
interest ? Yes, he had thought of it ; he had thought
with alarm of what had happened then ; he had been
more anxious about his young wife than young
husbands usually are — but no more. It had never
occurred to him that his child had anything to do with
the other. Strange blindness in a man so accurate !
He said to himself, " It will come to nothing ; it will
be arranged ; all will be well : " but in the same breath
he said, " Poor Paul ! God help him ! What would

happen to Paul, if "

He had not been able to do anything all day for
thinking of this : he had kept his blue-book before
him, but he had made nothing of it. Sir William,
whose understood creed it was that public affairs went
before everything, could pay no attention to these
public affairs. When the letters came in, in the evening,
he received them languidly, not feeling that there
was anything there which could interest him so much
as his own thoughts. When he saw Paul's handwriting

an unusual stir arose in his elderly bosom. But he put
it down, and took up a letter from his chief, which
would be no doubt of far more importance to the
country, with a last attempt to conquer himself. But
the words of his chiefs letter had no sense to him ; he
could not understand what there was to be so anxious
about. Smith's candidature for Bannockshire — what
did it matter ? He made a rapid and novel reflection
to himself about the trifling character of the incidents
which people made so much of; then laid down the
solemn sheet with its coronet, and took up the letter
of his boy.

A few minutes after he walked into his wife's sitting-room,
the letter open in his hand. Lady Markham was
seated close to the great window against the dying
light, with a candle flaring melancholy on a table
beside her, reading her letter. Alice, behind her, read
it too, over her mother's shoulder : surprise and trouble
were on their faces. Alice had begun to cry. Lady
Markham in her wonder and distress, was repeating a
few words here and there aloud. " I can no longer
hope for anything in this country of prejudice."
Going away to a new world." They were both so

absorbed that they did not hear Sir William's entrance
till he suddenly appeared, holding out his letter.
What is the meaning," he asked, " of this, Isabel ?
What is the meaning of it ? " The indignation of the
head of the house, which seemed to be directed against
themselves, brought the two ladies with a sudden shock
out of their own private dismay, and gave them a new
part to play. Their hearts still quivering with the
sudden blow which Paul's disclosure had given them,
they still turned in a moment into apologists and
defenders of Paul.

What is it ? — from Paul, William ? he has written
to you too said Lady Markham, with trembling
lips.

"What does it mean?" cried Sir William. "He
is going off, he says — away — to Australia or New
Zealand, or somewhere. What does it mean ? No
doubt he takes you into his confidence. If you have
known of this intention long you ought to have let
me know."

I am as much overwhelmed as you can be, William.
I have just got a letter." Lady Markham stopped, her
lips trembling. " Oh, Paul, my boy ! He cannot

mean it' she said. " It must be some fancy of the
moment. At his age everything is exaggerated.
William, William, something must be done. We must
go to him and save him."

Save him ! from what are we to save him ? " Sir
William began to pace up and down with impatience
and perplexity. He was not so angry (they thought)
as they had feared. He was anxious, unhappy, as they
were, though querulous too. "What is the meaning
of it ? Follies like this do not spring up all at once.
You must have seen it coming on. You must know
what it means. What has he been writing to you
about lately ? Is there — any woman ? "

'' William ! " cried his wife.

Well ! — Alice, run away ; we can discuss this better
without you. — Well ! it need not be anything criminal
or vicious, though of course that is what at once you
imagine it to be. Has he spoken of any one ? Has he

ever No, he would not do that. He is a fool," cried

the anxious father; "he is capable of any nonsense.
But it need not necessarily be anything that is vicious
from your point of view."

Alice had not gone away. She shrank behind her

mother into the dim corner, yet to her own consciousness
stood confronting her brother's accuser with a
resolute countenance, from which the colour had all
gone out. Her blue eyes were open wide with horror
yet denial. Whatever Paul might have done she was
ready to defend him; although the possibility of any
such wrongdoing went through her like a sword of fire.
The light of the candle flickered upon her faintly, showing
scarcely anything but her attitude, partially relieved
against the lightness of the window — a slim, straight,
indignant figure drawn up and set in defence.

He has not written often lately," said Lady Markham,
faltering; "but oh, William, it is not possible ;
he is not capable "

What do you knov/ about it ? " cried Sir William,
almost roughly. " How can you tell what he is capable
of? A young man will go from a house like this,
from his mother's side, and will find pleasure — actual
pleasure — in the society of creatures bred upon the
streets ; in their noisy talk, in their bad manners, in all
that is most unlike you. God knows how it is ; but soit
is. Paul may be no better than the rest. Alice, I
tell you, run away."

VOL. I. M

Lady Markham grew red and then deadly pale. She
rose trembling to her feet. '' Can we go to-night ? Can
we go at once ? " she cried. '' Oh, William, let us not
lose an hour ! "

"You know as well as I do there is no train after
eight o'clock. Compose yourself," said Sir William.
Nothing more than what has already happened can
happen to him to-night."

'' We might get the express at Brentwood — the train
papa generally goes by — if we were to start at once,"
cried Alice, with her hand on the bell, her eyes turning
from her father to her mother. The eager women on
each side of him made the greatest contrast to the head
of the house. Had Paul been dying instead of simply
in a problematical danger, Sir William Markham would
not have consented to leave his home in this headlong
ways or take any step upon which he had not reflected.
He waved his hand impatiently.

'you had much better go to bed," he said, "and
don't worry yourself about a matter in which for the
present none of us can do anything. I will go tomorrow.
Sit down, Alice ! Do you think Paul would
thank you if you arrived breathless in the middle of the

night ? Try to look at the matter coolly. Excitement
never does any good. I will go and see if he will listen
to reason — tomorrow.

To-morrow ! It seemed to both mother and sister as
if a thousand calamities, too terrible to think of, mig-ht
be happening, might have happened, before tomorrow ;
and on the other hand, how, they asked each other
with a pitiful interchange of looks, were they themselves
to live through the night ? No feeling of this
description moved Sir William. He was very much
disturbed and annoyed, but certainly it would do no
good to any one were he to render himself unfit for
action by foolish anxiety. Nor did he feel any of that
vague horror of apprehension which filled their minds.
He was a great deal more angry and much less alarmed
about his son's well-being. On the other hand, he was
less sanguine ; for he did not hope that Paul would
listen to reason, as they hoped that by their entreaties,
by their tears, by the sight of the misery his resolution
would bring them, Paul might relent and give way.
After a while Sir William returned to his library and to
his blue-books, and the official letter which he had only
half-read, which he had suffered himself to be so much

M 2

influenced by parental feeling as to leave in the middle ;
and though he paused now and then to frown and sigh,
and give a thought aside to the troubles of paternity,
yet he went on with his work, and gave all the attention
that was necessary to the public business, until his
usual hour for going to bed.

Lady Markham and Alice spent their evening in a
very different way ; they read their letter over twenty
times at least ; they found new meanings in every
sentence of it. Hidden things seemed to be brought
out, emotions, penitences, relenting, by every new
perusal. Sometimes these discoveries plunged them
into deeper trouble — sometimes raised them to sudden
hope. How little Paul was conscious of the subtle
shades of meaning they attributed to him ! They Averse
like commentators in all ages ; they found a thousand
ideas he had never dreamed of lurking in every line of
their author ; and with all these different readings in
their heads spent a sleepless night.

Paul Markham was not in his rooms. The porter at
the college gate looked curiously upon the party of people
who asked after him. It was not the time of year when
college authorities interfere with undergraduates; neither
was a virtuous young man 'staying up to read" likely
to call forth their censures. The porter could not give
them any information as to where to find Paul ; the
party (he thought) looked anxious, just as he had seen
people look whose son had got into trouble : the father
with wrinkles in his forehead, but an air of business and
anxious determination to look as if there was nothing
particular in it — nothing but an ordinary visit; the
mother with a redness about her eyes, but a smile, very
courteous, even conciliatory, to the porter himself, and
so sorry to give him trouble ; and an eager young sister

clinging to the mother, looking anxiously about, staring
at every figure she saw approaching.

Here's a gentleman, sir, as can tell you, if any one
can," the porter said. All three turned round simultaneously
to look at the person thus indicated. He was
a young man of not very distinguished appearance, who
came carelessly across the quadrangle in a rough coloured
suit, with a pipe in his mouth. He came along swinging
his cane, smoking his pipe, not thinking of what
awaited him. However, those three pairs of eyes
affected him unawares. He looked up and saw the
little group, and instinctively withdrew his pipe from
his mouth. He had just slipped it quickly into the
pocket of his loose jacket, and was trying to steal
through the party under cover of a messenger who
was passing, when Sir William stepped forward and
addressed him —

'this man tells me," he said, " that you are a friend
of my son, Paul Markham, and can perhaps give us
some information where to find him."

While the father spoke, the two ladies looked at the
young man with eyes half investigating, half-imploring.
He felt that they were making notes of his rough

clothes, his pipe, which alas ! they ]had seen going into
his pocket, and of a general aspect which was not very
decorous, and forming opinions unfavourable, not only
to himself, but to Paul ; while, at the same time,, they
were entreating him with soft looks to tell them where
Paul was, and somehow — they could not tell how — to
reassure them on his account.

Young Fairfax, who was not perhaps a very elevated
member of society in general, was of a sympathetic
nature at least. He was greatly embarrassed by their
looks, and confused between the two sides, giving the
attention of his eyes to the ladies on the one hand, and
that of his ears to Sir William on the other. He felt
himself blush at the thought of his own unsatisfactory
appearance — his worst clothes (for who expected to
meet ladies in August ?) and the pipe, which both
literally and metaphorically burnt his pocket. Lady
Markham and Alice took the redness which overspread
the stranger's face, not as referring to the state of his
own appearance (though they were keenly sensible of
that), but as a sign that he had nothing that was
comforting or satisfactory to say of Paul — and their
hearts sank.

Young Fairfax coughed and cleared his throat.

Markham ? " he said. '' I will go and see if he is
in his rooms."

*' He is not in his rooms' they said all together, a
fact which the other knew very well.

When Fairfax found this little expedient of his to
gain time did not answer, he ventured on a bolder step.
If you will go to Markham's rooms' he said, " I think
I can find him for you. I know where he will be ;
that is to say I know two or three men's rooms —
where he is very likely to be."

Could not we go with this gentleman ? " said Lady
Markham, looking at him, though it was to her husband
she spoke — and Alice looked at him too with a supplicating
look which went to the young good-for-nothing's
heart. He gave the ladies a look in return
which he felt Alas apologetic, and yet full of a protest
and appeal to their sense of justice. What can I do ?
1 cannot make him all that you wish him to be ; was
what he felt his look said; and this was really the
sentiment in his mind, though he would have laughed
at himself for it. They understood him well enough,
and their hearts sank a little too.

Impossible I " said Sir William, 'how could you goto

— a man's rooms ? perhaps into the midst of a

party" he was going to have said riotous party, but
forbore for the sake of the girl. "No, you had better
take this — young gentleman's advice — "

*' My name is Fairfax," said the youth, taking off his
hat. He blushed again, having kept that engaging
weakness, though it is not by any means sure that he
had kept the modest grace of which it is the sign : and
a smile crept about his lips. The hearts of the two
women rose a little. If things had been very bad with
Paul he would not, they reasoned, have had the heart
to smile.

'* Mr. Fairfax's advice," said Sir William ; '' go to
Paul's room and wait there, and I will go with Mr.
Fairfax to find him. That is much the best thing todo."


I may have to run about to one place and another,"
said the young man alarmed ; 'rit is a pity to give you
so much trouble. Would not you, sir, wait with the
ladies ? I promise you to find him with as little
delay — "

I will go with you," said Sir William, in his cold

way, which admitted of no appeal ; " you know the
way, Isabel, to Paul's rooms." And thus they parted,
the young man looking at the ladies again with a kind
of dismayed protest : can I help it ? He was very
much dismayed to have Sir William with him. Fairfax
had not much doubt as to where Paul was, and he did
not think it was a place which would please his father.
He felt already that he had established an understanding
with the others which justified his glance of dismay.
Lady Markham and her daughter turned very reluctantly
away. They went across the quadrangle
with drooping heads. Everything lay vacant in the
sunshine, no cheerful bustle about, the windows all
black, no voices, no footsteps, no lounging figures under
the trees. Slowly they went across the light with
their heads close together. " He knows where Paul
is," said Lady Markham, with a sigh. "But he did
not want papa to go," said Alice with another. They
crept up the silent staircase and went into the vacant
room, and sat down timidly, not venturing to look at
anything. They were afraid of seeing something, even
a book, which in Paul's absence would betray Paul.
His mother glanced furtively, pitifully about her. She

vas more bound by honour here in her son's room,
more determined to make no discoveries, than if her
boy had been her enemy ; and who can tell how the
consciousness of this sank like a stone into her heart !
A few years ago everything would have been so lightly
reviewed, so gaily discussed— but now ! The fringes of
her cloak swept some papers off a side-table, and she
let them lie, not venturing to touch them. Paul should
not suppose that his mother had come to pry into his
secrets. God forbid ! He should be allowed to explain
himself, to say the best he could for himself.

Mr. Fairfax looked as if he knew everything.
Did not you think so, mamma?"

Oh, my darling, what can I say ? He looked, I
think, as if he were fond of Paul."

"That I am sure he did. He was not very nice
Looking, nor well dressed ; but these young men are
very careless, are they not, when they are living
alone ? "

I should not think anything of that, dear," said
Lady Markham, decidedly ; " I think, too, though he
was careless of his appearance, that he had an innocent
look. He met your eye ; there was nothing

down-looking about him ; and he blushed ; that is
always a good sign, and smiled at me, like a boy who
has got a mother."

'* And he did not look at all frightened to see us, ashe
would have done had there been anything very
wrong. I think he was rather pleased — it was papa he
was afraid of. Now it is clear that if Paul had been —
wicked, as papa said — (oh, Paul, Paul, I beg your
pardon dear, I never thought it !) — it would have been
you and me, mamma, don't you think, that they
would have been afraid of? They could not have
borne to look us in the face if that had been true ;
whereas," said Alice, in a tingle of logic, the tears
starting into her eyes, '' it was papa Mr. Fairfax was
afraid of, not you or me."

'' That is true," said Lady Markham, brightening
slowly, but she did not take all the comfort from this
potent argument that AHce expected. " Unless they
are very intimate, he is not likely to know all that
Paul is doing' she said, shaking her head. Paul's
room was far from orderly. Once upon a time he had
been very fond of knick-knacks, and had cultivated
china and hung plates about the walls. All that was

gone now. Lady Markham looked at the bareness of
the room with a pang. Would he have neglected it soif
everything had been going well with him ? Perhaps
had it been much decorated she would have asked herself
whether these meretricious ornaments did not
indicate a mind given up to frivolity ; but at this
moment it seemed a curious and significant fact
that the ornaments had all disappeared from his
walls.

In the meantime young Fairfax was hurrying Sir
William at a pace which scarcely befitted his dignity,
or his years, along the streets. Probably the young
man forgot that his companion was likely to suffer
from this rapid progress ; and when he remembered,
he was not without hope of tiring the angry (as he
supposed) father. But Sir William was a statesman
and trained to exertion. He puffed a little and got
very hot, but he did not flinch. Fairfax it was evident
knew very well where he was going. He made a
cunning attempt to deceive his companion by pretending
to pause and wonder at the first corner; then he
smote his thigh, and declared that of course he knew
where Paul would be at this hour — not in any man's

Iodo"in2fs — with the man who was teachings him — what
was it ? He could not recollect what it was — wood-carving,
or something of that sort. '' It is a good way
off ; would it not be better to let me fetch him ? " he
said, making a last attempt. '' Let us get a cab," said
Sir William. '' Oh, it is not so far as that," said his
guide, with a blush. Sir William had a half-suspicion
that he was being led round and round about to make
him think the way longer than it really was ; but that
part of Oxford had changed since his time, and he was
not quite sure of the way. At last, however, when no
further delay was possible, he found himself at the
door of a little grimy house, the ground floor of which
seemed to be occupied as some kind of workshop,
where a man sat working. The place smelt of varnish
and the window was full of small picture-frames, gilt
and ungilt, and other very simple articles, carved work-boxes
and book-shelves. " Oh, Spears ! has Markham
been here ? " the young man cried with a certain relief
in his tone, evidently pleased not to see the person of
whom he was in search. The workman looked up
from his work. He was busy with a glue-pot, and the
varnish which smelt so badly. He did not rise from

his bench in honour of the gentleman, or remove his
cap from his head. He said shortly, but in a voice of
unusual sweetness and refinement —

''He is here still. He has gone up stairs, to wash
his hands I suppose."

Ail ! " said Fairfax. It was not a syllable, it was
a sigh. He had hoped to have escaped easily ; but it
was not to be so. He went to the foot of the stairs,
which led directly out of the workshop. " Markham
! " he cried, " are you there ? Come down at
once ; you are wanted." How could he throw special
significance into his voice ? It sounded to himself
just as careless as usual, though he had meant to make
it very serious. " Markham, I say, there's some one
wants you — important! Come at once!" he added,
going up^a few steps.

Sir William stood stiffly down below, watching with
the utmost attention, while the workman upon his
bench eyed him with suspicious eyes.

Then Paul's voice came still more lightly from
above, striking strangely upon the ear of his father,
who had never heard that tone in it before.

'' Confound you, what's the hurry ? " Paul said. "If

it's a dun you ought to know better than to bring
him here. I'll come when I'm ready."

'' Markham ! I tell you it's of the first importance,"
said the young man, going a step or two higher, but
still quite audible to Sir William.

Then there came a burst of laughter from above,
seconded by what sounded to Sir William's suspicious
ears like feminine voices.

'ris it the Vice-chancellor ? " said Paul ; " or the
Provost ? Say the word, and I'll get out over the
leads or through the window — "

The next moment he appeared, rubbing his hands ina
towel, and without his coat, with a face more full of
laughter than. Sir William thought, he had ever seen
it before ; and this time he felt certain that he heard
women laughing up stairs. He was standing with his
back to the light, and his son did not see him for the
moment.

Paul came down stairs, gradually emerging, always
rubbing his hands. He called out —

Who is it. Spears ? What is this fellow making
a fuss about ? "

" I cannot tell who it is," said the workman ; '' it is

some one who has come into my house without taking
the trouble to notice me. I presume therefore that it
must be what is called a gentleman."

The sound of the man's voice was so pleasant that
Sir William did not at first realise the offence in it ;
and at that moment he was too much absorbed
in watching the changes of his son's countenance to
think of anything else.

Paul emerged from the shadow of the staircase, which
was like a ladder, his face full of amusement and brightness,
entirely at his ease, and familiar with all about
him. His hat was on and his coat was off, but that
evidently made no difference ; neither did he cease to
dry his hands with the towel as he came leisurely downstairs.
It was clear that he expected no one whose
appearance could require any more regard to the
decorum of formal life.

When he first caught sight of his father a cloud came
over him. Sir William's face was not visible, but Sir
William's figure and voice were scarcely to be mistaken.
The father looked on while the first shadow of fear
came over his son's face ; then saw it lighten with a
desperate effort not to believe what was too apparent ;

VOL. I. N

then darken suddenly and completely with the sense of
discovery and of the fate which had overtaken him.
To see your child's bright countenance cloud over at
the sight of you, to see the struggle of hope that this
may not be you, and despair to find that it is you,
what mortal parent can bear this unmoved ? It
would have half killed Lady Markham.

Sir "William was of tougher stuff, and less entirely
moved by the affections ; but yet he felt it. He saw
the same line come into his son's forehead which all the
family knew so well in his own, and that expression of
angry displeasure, impatience and gloom, came over his
face. This made him too angry, in spite of himself
He said, harshly —

'eyes, Paul, it is I. I am the last person you
expected, or evidently wished to see here."

Paul came down the remaining steps, the very sound
of his foot changing ; he threw away his towel and took
off his hat, and assumed an air of punctilious politeness.

I do not deny that I am much surprised to see you,
sir," he said, darting a glance aside of annoyed reproach
at Fairfax. He had flushed a gloomy red, of shame
and annoyance, feeling his very shirt-sleeves to be

evidence against him — and looked round for his coat
with an inclination to be angry with everybody,

I had just gone to wash my hands after my work,"
he said, with a confused apology. Confronted thus
suddenly with his father in all the solemnity of authority
and parental displeasure, how could he help feeling
himself at a disadvantage ? He forgot everything but
that his father had found him in circumstances which
to him would seem equivocal, perhaps disgraceful ; but
he was not allowed to forget.

If you require to apologise, Markham, for being
found in my shop or my house, you had better not
return here," said the master of the place, eyeing him
over his shoulder from his bench, '' any more."

'' I beg your pardon, Spears. My father — does not
think with me. It is by no will of mine that he has
come here "

'' If you can't be civil, and introduce him civilly — and
if he can't be civil, and doesn't know how to treat
a man in his own house," said Spears, busy with his
glue-pot, " you had better take him away."

This is the man you brought to my house — in my
absence' said Sir William, " imposing upon your mother.

N 2

I suppose the well-known " — (he was going to say
demagogue, but paused, after looking at the person in
question) — " orator and leader of Trades Unions "

'* Yes, that is I," said the master of the shop. " I am
quite ready to answer any question on my own account.
But I beg your pardon, whoever you may be. Markham
did not impose upon his mother, nor did I. He introduced
me as his friend, and I lost no time in telling the
lady that I was a working man. Lady Markham has
the manners of a queen. She was perfectly polite tome,
as I hope I am capable of being to any one who
comes in the same way into my house."

Sir William gave his son's friend another look. He
had no desire to make a personal enemy of this demagogue.
A public man must think of expediency in public
matters, even where his own affections are concerned.

'you will excuse me," he said, coldly. "My business
is with my son. I should not have intruded myself
into your house had I known it. Paul, your mother is
at your rooms, waiting for you. I must ask you to come
there with me at once."

Paul's countenance fell still more.

My mother ! — here ! "

Good morning," said Sir William, taking off his hat
With much solemnity. '' I am sorry to have invaded
Mr. Spears's privacy even for a moment. I will wait
for you, Paul, outside."

The workman got up and took off his cap, bowing
ceremoniously in answer to Sir William's salutation.
He had not moved till his name was mentioned.

'' There ! " he cried, with comical discomfiture, " dash
the little aristocrat ! He has the last word — that's the
worst, or the best of them. They have their senses
always about them. No flurry — no feeling. Well,
Paul, aren't ^^ou going ? Be off with you and explain,
like a good boy, to your mamma and your papa."

What is it all about ? " said a girl's voice from the
top of the stairs ; and first one, then another, fair,
curly, somewhat unkempt head appeared peeping doAvn
upon the group below. " And who is the little old
gentleman ? Father, may we come down stairs ? "

Go back to your work, on the instant," said Spears ;
I want no girls here. Well, Markham, why don't you
go ? Is your father to wait for yon all day — and I
too ? "

'' I shall go when I am ready," said Paul, gloomily.

He took a long time to put on that coat. He was
not of a temper to be cowed or frightened, and for a
moment he was undecided whether to defy his father
directly and deny all jurisdiction or control on his
part, or to take the more difficult part of extending to
Sir William that courtesy which his teacher had instructed
him was due from all men to each other — from
rebellious sons to fathers as well as in every other
relation of life — hearing what he had to say with
politeness as he would have heard any other opponent
in argument. But the fact is that an argument between
father and son on their reciprocal duties is a thing more
difficult to maintain with perfect temper and politeness
than any argument that ever took place in the Union
or perhaps in Parliament itself. And Paul was bitterly
angry that his father should have invaded this place,
and dismayed to hear that his mother had come, and
that he should have her entreaties to meet. He had
not anticipated anything of the kind, strangely enough.
He had expected letters of all kinds — angry, reproachful,
entreating — but it had not occurred to him that his
father would come in person, much less any other of
the family. He was dismayed and he was angry ; his

heart filled him in spite of all his courage. Pride and
temper forbade him to run away, yet he would have
escaped if he could. He took a long time to put on
his coat ; he said nothing to either of the two men
that stood by, and pushed Fairfax aside when he tried
to help him. Spears had given up his work altogether,
and stood watching his pupil with a smile upon his face.

"When does that fellow mean to go?" he said.
What is he waiting for ? I like the looks of the
little old gentleman, as the girls call him. There's
stuff in that man. But for him and such as him the
people would have had their rights long ago; but I
respect the man for all that. Markham, what do you
mean by keeping him kicking his heels outside my
shop in the sun ? That is not the respect due from one
man to another. He's an older man than you are, and
merits more consideration. What are you frightened
for, man alive ? Can't you go ? "

'frightened!" cried Paul, with an indignant curl
of his lip.

Yes, frightened, nothing else ; or you wouldn't
take so lonf^ a time about goino\ Ah, that's
driven him out at last ! Do you know those people,

Fairfax, or how did you come to bring the father
here ? "

'' I know them ? I am not half grand enough.
How should I know a man who is a Right Honourable ?
I met them by chance. Spears, you may say what you
like, but even a little rank, however it may go against
reason, has an effect — "

Do you think I need you to tell me that ? If it
hadn't an effect what would be the use of all we're
doing? 'Why stand I in peril every day?' as that
fine democrat Paul says somewhere. To be sure there's
something in it. I once lived three days in that man's
house. I didn't know he was absent, as he says he was.
I should have liked to have stood up to him and stated
my way of thinking, and seen what he had to say for
himself. It was the first sneaking thing I ever knew
in Markham to take me there while his father was
away. Life goes on wheels in those houses," said
Spears, taking his seat again upon his bench. " It was
all one could do after a day or two to keep one's moral
consciousness awake. A footman waited upon me hand
and foot, and I never spoke to him — not as I ought to
have done — about the unnatural folly of his position,

till the last day. I couldn't do it; a fortnight in that
place would have demoralised even me. The mother —
ah, there it is ! We can't build up women like that.
I don't know how you're to do it without their conditions.
We have good women, and brave women, and
pure women, but nothing like that. You have to
see it," said Spears, shaking his head, " even to know
what it is."

'' So long as it's only a fine lady — " said the young
man.

Don't talk of what you don't understand," said the
other. "I'd have the best of everything in my
Republic. I'd have that little old mans pluck and
self-command ; and the lady — I don't see my way
to anything like the lady."

I have always told you, Spears, that the old society
which you condemn has everything that is good in it, if
you would have patience and — "

Yo2c have always told me ! " said Spears in his
melodious voice.

He returned to his work without further argument,
as if this were enough reply. He was finishing a
number of little carved frames, of which his window

was full. There was a bill in the window on which
Selling off " was printed in large letters. The shop
was full of wood and bits of carving all done up in
bundles, and everything about showed marks of an
approaching departure or breaking-up. The master of
the house put on his cap again and gave himself up to
his work. It was not of a kind which impressed the
spectator. But the man who worked was not commonplace
in appearance. He was not much taller than Sir
William, but had a large massive head, covered with a
crop of dusky hair. The softness of his eyes corresponded
with that of his voice, but the lines of the face
were not soft. He took no further notice of Fairfax, who,
for his part, took his neglect quite calmly. The young
man took his pipe out of his pocket, where he had put
it stealthily when he first caught sight of the ladies, for
one moment paused, and looked at it with a look of
half-comic half-serious uncertainty. Should he keep it
as a memento of that interview? He looked at it
again and laughed, then pulled out of another pocket a
little box of matches and lighted his pipe. He, like
Paul, was quite familiar and at his ease in the
workman's shop.

You have kept me a long time waiting," said Sir
William. "I should have thought elaborate leave-taking
unnecessary in a place where you seem so
much at home."

I took no leave' said Paul ; 'rit was quite unnecessary.
I shall see Spears again to-night."

Sir William turned round upon his son with quick
impatience ; then paused. This was not a case to be
treated hastily, and patience was the best. " You and
I differ in a great many points' he said ; '' therefore it
is not wonderful perhaps that I should think you have
made a curious choice of a trade to learn : for I suppose
you are by way of learning a trade. Don't you think
a certain amount of civilisation is necessary before
picture-frames will become remunerative ? I don't think
you could live by them in the bush."

Paul coloured high with that acute sense of being
open to ridicule which is so terrible to youth. '' Spears
is selling off his stock," he said. '' I do not know if it
is a sign of high civilisation, but he sells his picture-frames
and lives by them. Most men of genius have
been reduced to make their livelihood by some inferior
branch of their work."

'' And what then do you call his highest work ? " Sir
William asked carelessly. Paul, astonished, but willing
to believe that his father had taken an interest in
Spears and that all was about to go as he wished, fell
into the trap, as any other unsuspicious nature would
have done.

His carvings are wonderful," he said, with all the
fervour of enthusiasm. "When he has a congenial
subject he is equal to Gibbons or any one. He ought
to have been a great sculptor. If you saw some of the
things he has done you would see what bitter satire it
is that he should live by those wretched little picture-frames."


"Is it so, indeed?" said Sir William. 'then
it is the higher branch of wood-carving and not
picture-frames that you are learning, I suppose ? Do

you mean then to carry liigli art, Paul, into the
bush ? "

I cannot see what this has to do with the bush, sir,"
said Paul, impatiently. " One must live there by one's
hands, and to know how to use them in any special way
cannot be a disadvantage in any other way. That is
Spears' s view of the subject, and mine too."

I doubt if wood-carving will help you much in
felling trees or making them into huts," said Sir
William, with a great air of candour. " What do you
suppose the advantage is likely to be of changing from
a state of society where everything that is beautiful has
its value, to one where you will live by your hands, as
you say, and where the highest skill will only not do
you any harm ? I should like to know the reasoning
by which you have arrived at your present convictions
the ideas expressed in the letter I got last night."

You have received my letter then ? " Paul said, with
dignity. " You know what my settled determination is.
I hope you do not mean, and that my mother does not
mean, to attempt to turn me from a plan which I have
not decided on without great thought,"

I don't know what your mother may mean to do.

my boy," said Sir William, quietly. " She v/ill act
according to her own standards of duty, not mine ; but
I know what I intend myself, and the first thing is to
understand your reasons for the extraordinary step you

propose. You, the heir of a fine property " Sir

William made a stumble before the word lair, which,
notwithstanding that Paul was about to abjure everything,
led him to make a rapid calculation of his
father's power in this matter. The Markham property
was not all entailed. Did the father mean to disinherit
his lawful successor? Paul felt a flush of
indignation go over him, though he was about to
declare his intention of giving up all.

The heir of a fine property," said Sir William,
'' and an influential position. At this moment, young
as you are, you might make a start in public life, and
have a hand in the government of your country, which
is as high an ambition as a man can entertain. How
have you managed to persuade yourself that to go out
into a half savage country and encounter the first
difficulties of savage life is better or more honourable
than this ? To live by your hands instead of your
head," he continued, growing warm, 'sto surround

3'oiirself with beggarly elements of living instead of
the highest developments of civilisation — to make
yourself of no more account than any ploughboy "

Here Paul felt himself touch the ground. There
had stolen over him a chill of alarm as to how he was
to answer such a question, but this last clause brought
him back to the superficial polemics with which he
was familiar enough. " Why should I be of more
account than any ploughboy ? " he said ; '' that is the
whole question. Why is there this immense gulf between
the ploughboy and me ? Is he less a man than
I am ? Are not my advantages a shame to me in the
face of manhood? What right have I to humiliate
him for my advancement ? "

What right have you to be a fool ? " said Sir
William, bitterly. '' I don't know : your mother is
not a fool, though she is not clever. If your ploughboy
had been educated as you have been, your
argument might have had some show of reason. Do
you mean to tell me that education is nothing — that a
lad from the fields ought to be of as much use in the
world as you are ? This is to despise not only rank,
which I know is your favourite type of injustice, but

breeding, culture, everything you have acquired by
your work. How do you justify yourself in throwing
away that ? There is no question of humiliating the
ploughboy ; the ploughboy will be of ten times as
much use as you are in the bush."

This view of the question was not pleasant to Paul.
He held himself up with great stateliness, and did
not deign to look at his father. '' That remains to
be seen, sir," he said.

'' What remains to be seen ? — that a man brought
up to farming will make a better farmer than you — or
your friend the wood-carver? Suppose we consider
the question from his point of view," said Sir
William. '' He is a skilled workman, you tell me."

I said a man of genius."

All the better for my argument. Your man of
genius," Sir William went on with a barely perceptible
smile, " may be — appreciated, let us say, in a country
like this, where art is known : but who will care for
his art where he is going ? "

'' More than here," cried Paul hotly, interrupting his
father. '' Here, because he has no money, nor position
to make him known and no impudence to push him

into favour, his beautiful work is taken no notice of,
and he lives by making picture-frames. Ploughing
and digging is better than that. The earth at least
is grateful for what is done for her."

Not always," said Sir William. " I thought you
had heard enough about farming to know better.
However, the advantage of emigrating to your —
friend, will be, not the gain of anything, but the
giving up of this work, and the sacrifice of what you
call his genius. No, I do not scoff at his genius. I
know nothing about it. I take it on your word.
Your man of genius will throw away his chief distinction
on your own showing : and soit will throw
away what as yet are your only distinctions, the position
you derive from your ancestors, the education
which you have got (partially) by your own exertions
for what ? to attempt sto do clumsily what two

ploughmen could do much better than you. Ah !

who is that ? "

Paul's eye had been caught some moments before
by a lady coming towards them, at sight of whom a
sudden flush came over his face. A lady ! was she a
lady ? She was dressed very simply in a black alpaca

VOL. L

gown, the long plain lines of which harmonised and
gave elegance to a tall, well-developed figure. The
dress was well made and graceful, such as any lady
might have worn ; but the little hat upon the young
woman's head was doubtful. Even Sir William, who
looked somewhat anxiously at her, seeing the flush on
his son's face, felt that it was doubtful. The faded
brown velvet and scrubby little feather did not suit the
rest of the dress. She walked well, as she came towards
them, but when she perceived Paul and his
companion, an air of embarrassment which was half
fright came over her face. When Paul, all red and
glowing with a mixture of feelings which Sir William
could not fathom, took off his hat, she gave him an
alarmed, inquiring look, blushed fiercely, and replied
to his salutation with a hurried nod of her head, which
made the question of her position more uncertain than
ever. Still she was a handsome young woman : before
she had seen Paul, Sir William himself had remarked
her stately carriage and figure. " Who is that ? " he
repeated, suspicious, as a parent naturally is of a young
man's unknown female friends, yet not unprepared to
hear that it was somebody not unworthy to be known

by Sir William Markham's son ; for it might well be
that ladies in a learned community, fearless of misconception,
were not always so particular as could be
desired about their hats. He turned half round and
gave a glance after her as she continued her way,
which, as she had just done the same, was somewhat
awkward. But Paul marched straight forward and
took no notice. " Who is that ? " Sir William repeated,
sharply, determined this time to have a reply.

Paul's blush and discomfiture, and his marked and
ceremonious recognition of the stranger, meant several
things. They meant that he felt himself certain to be
misconstrued, yet was too proud and too sincere to take
any means of avoiding misconstruction; that he was
annoyed by the encounter, alarmed by the new idea
which his father would certainly take up in consequence
; yet forced by this alarm and annoyance to
show a more marked and excessive courtesy to the
person (oh, had she but gone down another street and
kept out of the way !) whose appearance plunged him
into so much confusion, and would, he felt sure, complicate
everything. Whether this sudden liveliness of
consciousness did not mean that there was cause for



alarm is another matter. In the meantime all that
Paul felt was that the girl's name once mentioned
must add tenfold to the difficulty of his position.

'who is it? It is Spears's eldest daughter," he
said curtly, with a new and brilliant suffusion of
colour over all his face.

'' Oh ! " was all Sir William said. What more was
necessary ? The young man felt, with a sensation of
intolerable impatience that he was judged and condemned
on the spot ; but he could not protest against
a conclusion which was not put into words. If he said
anything, would not, his guilt be considered doubly
proved ? Silence seemed his only policy ; and no more
was said. The discussion, which had been so serious,
came to a dead stop. They walked on together without
saying another word. Sir William, who had been
so bent upon convincing his son, dropped his argument
all at once. Paul did not look at him, but yet he was
aware that the line on his forehead, the pucker that
meant trouble, had deepened. The young man felt
himself suddenly in the grip of despair. He felt himself
judged, the question settled, everything changed.
His whole conduct had assumed a new lio^ht in his

father's eyes, and it was a false light. Instead of
respecting him as the logical if rash devotee of certain
fixed principles, his father evidently concluded him to
be the victim of a commonplace love affair. How
was Paul to overcome this hasty and false judgment ?
Pride and prudence alike made it necessary that he
should take no notice of it. He held his head higher
in the air than ever, and walked on with a certain protestation
and appeal against the injustice done him in
every step he took. Sir William, on his side, dropped
the argument with a mixture of despair and contempt.
This was how it was — far more easy to understand
than democratic ideas or communistic principles in the
heir to a great property, here was an inducement which
was plain to the meanest capacity : a fine, handsome,
young woman ! This was how it was ! Sir William
felt angry Avitli himself for being duped, and for having
really for a moment believed in the revolutionary
sentiments which had been assumed (he had no doubt)
in order to carry on this other pursuit. How foolish
he had been to allow himself to be thus deceived !
He gave up his argument with an abruptness which
had impatience in it, and for the moment he could

not say anything to the boy who had thus succeeded in
deceiving him, and added the feeling of shame for his
own gulHbihty to that of anger. He had taken the
trouble to attempt to convince him, to believe in an
intellectual error, which, however exasperating, was
not discreditable — and this was how it was !

What was to be done ? It was all a mistake, but
Paul could not say so, for his father did not condescend
to make any accusation. Thus they walked on, fuming
both with indignation and impatience. Now and then
the young man eyed his father as if he could have
taken him by the shoulders and shaken him, an undutiful
form of the mutual exasperation. But Sir
William was beyond this. What was the good ? He
would save his breath, he thought, for better purposes.
Why should he talk himself hoarse while Paul laughed
in his sleeve, not caring a straw for his arguments,
meaning perhaps to laugh with the girl the next time
they met over the ease with which his father had fallen
into the snare. No, the fellow was not worthy of
argument ; he who was capable of masking an unworthy
entanglement in this way. Let his mother try her
hand upon him, the father thought, indignantly. She

might do something. A woman's tears and suffering
are sometimes more effectual than reason. Sir William
felt in his indignant disgust that to let his own
beautiful and perfect wife enter the lists against this —
hussy — yes, he was coarse in his vexation and distress
to let Lady Markham the pride of the county, a
woman whom it was a glory for a man to have won —
to let her come down from her pedestal and humble
herself to the pleadings and the tears of an anxious
mother for a boy so little worthy of her as to be capable
of such a connection — was a disgrace. But then he
knew that was not how she would feel it. She would
not think of her own dignity. And she would get it
all out of him — women can ; they do not disdain to
return and return to the inquiry, to ask question after
question ; he Avould not be able to elude her examination.
She would get it all out of him — how far it had
gone, all about it. And then some strong step must
be taken — something must be done — though, for the
moment, he could not think what that something
should be.

''I see them at last," said Alice from the window.
Oh, Paul ! Papa is coming along quite quietly, not

scolding him. He is looking — not so angry. It is so
natural to see them walking along — quite friendly.
He is not scolding "

'' Oh, my dear ! do not use such a word. Scold ! we
might scold Harry for climbing trees : but this is too
serious, far too serious. How is my poor boy looking? Oh,
I hope — I hope your papa has not been hard upon him.
Men forget that they were once young and foolish too.'

That was what I meant," said Alice. " I wonder

they are not saying anything to each other, mamma."

Lady Markham had come to the window and was
looking out too, over her child's shoulder, while the
father and the son came along the street together, silent,
separated by so much that was real, and something
that was mistaken. The mother and daughter looked
out together with but one heart. Not a breath had
ever come between these two : they knew each other
absolutely as no one else knew either. How could it
be possible for them to misunderstand each other, to
fall apart, to experience ever whatever might happen,
the chill distance and severance which was between
Sir William and his son ? Lady Markham leant upon
her child's shoulder.

Not a word," she said ; " not a word. Oh, my boy
my boy ! Your father must have given it up ; he
must think there is nothing more to be said."

But we will never give him up ! " cried the girl.
How could we give him up ? That is impossible.
You could as soon give up me ! "

"Not Paul, dear — never Paul: but the attempt to
turn him from his own way. If he will not listen to
your papa, Alice, what attention will he pay to me
and you ? "

Alice had no answer to make to this question, so
intent was she, watching the expression of Paul's face
as he crossed the street and disappeared under the
gateway. She read in it, or thought she read in it, the
conclusion of a stormy argument, the opposition to all
that could be said to him, the determination to have
his own way which was natural to Paul. And she too,
with a sigh, recognised the futility of argument.

He never would listen to papa' she said. " Papa
proves you so in the wrong that you can't help going
on with it. But he will not be cruel to you and me.
Oh, whe n he knows it will break our hearts ! " said Alice.

And then they were silent, hearing the steps come

up the staircase, turning two pairs of anxious eyes
towards the door. Sir "William came in first with a
kind of stern introduction of the culprit.

Here is Paul," he said. And then without any
words, with a certain half-protest against their presence
there at all, Paul submitted to be kissed by his mother
and sister. They stood all together in a confused
group for a moment, not knowing what to do or say,
for it is difficult to rush into such a subject as this
which was in all their thoughts in a company of four.
Lady Markham held her boy by the hand, and looked
at him pathetically with an unspoken appeal which
made his heart ache, but felt that she must have him
to herself, must be free of all spectators, before she
could say all she had to say to him. 'ewe had better
go back to the inn and get some luncheon," said Sir
William, breaking the spell with practical simplicity.
He took his wife by the arm as they went down stairs.
The democracy is a pretence, and so is the fancy fora
new world," he half-whispered, hissing into her ear.
It is a woman, as I thought."

Lady Markham started so that she almost lost her
footing, and her parasol fell out of her hand.

A woman ? " she said, with a scarlet blush of
trouble and shame. The first intrusion of this possibility
daunts and terrifies a mother. A woman ! what
does that mean ? — not the pure and delicate love with
which all her thoughts would be in sympathy ; something
very different. The shock of separation between
the boy, the heir of all her hopes, and a man half-known,
who is no longer the child of her bosom, was
almost more than she could bear. The cry she gave
echoed low but bitter through the empty passages,
where many such have echoed, audible or inaudible,
before.

*' I CANNOT move him one step from his resolution,"
said Lady Markham, pressing her hands over her eyes.
They were aching with tears, with the sleeplessness of
the past night, and that burning of anxiety which is
worse than either. "He does not seem to care for
what I say to him. His mind is made up, he declares.
God help us ! William, our eldest boy ! And he used
to be so good, so affectionate; but now he will not
listen to a word I say."

They were in a room in the hotel, one of those bare
and loveless rooms, denuded of everything that is
warm or homelike, in which so often the bitterest
scenes of the tragedy of our life take place. Lady
Markham sat by the bare table; Sir William paced
up and down between that and the door. Outside was

all the commotion of one of those big caravanserai
which have become so common in England, echoes of
noisy parties below, and a constant passage up and
down of many feet. Trouble itself is made harder
vulgarised by such contact. They were far too much
absorbed to think of this, yet it made them a little
more miserable unawares.

*' Does he mean to marry her ? " Sir William said.

Oh ! " cried Lady Markham, with a start as if she
had received a blow ; '' I cannot think it is that. He
will not allow it is that. It is, what he has always said,
those new principles, those revolutionary ideas, I do
not know what those men are worthy of who fill a
boy's head with ridiculous theories, who teach him to
despise his home."

There are few who are much harmed by that.
Isabel you must not be squeamish. You must forget
you are a delicate lady, and speak plainly. I know
what a young man is at Paul's age ; they can hold the
wildest theories without feeling any necessity to act
upon them. It is a privilege of youth; but against
that other kind of influence, they are helpless. And a
woman like you does not understand the arts and the

wiles of these others. And he does not know how
important it is' said Sir William, with a piteous tone
in his voice ; ''he does not know-^ — "

''He knows very well what he is to me and to you'
Lady Markham said. In this particular she spoke with
perfect calm, not fearing anything. " How should he
not know ? I have not hidden it from him that a great
part of the happiness of my life hangs upon his. It
seems ungrateful when one has so many blessings ; but,
oh ! if one is in trouble, how can you be comforted
though all the others are well ? All your heart goes to
the one. It is "not that you love the others less, but him
more — him more."

Sir William listened to this outburst without a word.
They were bearing one burden between them, and yet
each had a separate burden to bear. His heart would
not be racked like hers by the desertion of the boy.
He would not concentrate his whole soul on Paul
because Paul was in trouble. But on the other hand,
she was altogether unaware of what was in his
thoughts, the doubtful position in which perhaps Paul
might one day find himself; the need there was that
his future should be within his own power to shape and

form. Also Sir William was aware of the disappointment
and misery awaiting those who compromise their
whole lives in one fit of foolish passion, and secure
their own misery by a hasty marriage. These were the
things he was thinking of. He saw his son waking upto
the realities of a life very different from anything he
had dreamed — and encumbered, he, so fastidious, so
fantastical, with an uneducated woman and all the
miseries of premature fatherhood. He groaned as this
picture arose in his mind.

'trouble," he said. 'eyes, I suppose if a young
man allows himself to get entangled, there is trouble
involved in the breaking of the tie ; but not half so
much trouble as will come after, when his life is dragged
down by association with a woman like that, — when he
has a Wretched home, a sordid life, a hundred miserable
necessities to provide for, — you don't know what it is,
you can't know what it is " '

He broke off abruptly. Would she perhaps suspect
him — him, her husband — of having learned by
experience what these horrors were ?

But no such notion entered Lady Markham's mind.
No," she said; "I think you are wrong, William. I

think it is not that that is in my boy's mind. Oh, if
one could know — if one could feel sure, that his heart
was open as it used to be ! "

Here she paused ; and there was silence between the
two, Sir William walking slowly up and down, with his
head forward, and she sitting wistful gazing into the
dark air, her eyes enlarged with anxiety and pain.
They were such prosperous, happy people — so well off,
so full of everything that can make life smooth and
sweet, that the silence of their trouble was all the more
impressive — so many things that harm poorer people
would have passed innocently over them. They had
such a stock (people might have said) of comfort and
happiness to fall back upon. Nevertheless, this blow was
so skilfully dealt, that it found out the weak places
in their armour at once. To Sir William, indeed, it
came as a sort of retribution ! but what had his wife
done to have her gladness thus stolen away from her ?
Fortunately those who suffer thus innocently are not
those who ask such questions. She shed her tears
silently, with many prayers for him who was the cause ;
but she did not complain of the pain which was laid
upon her for no fault of hers. They had talked it allover

in every possible aspect, and now they were silent,
saying nothing. What was there to say ? They could
do nothing, however they might toil or struggle. It
was not in their power to change the circumstances.
Even Sir William, though he was a man of much
influence, a great personage, of importance in Europe —
capable perhaps of stopping revolutions, of transforming
the face of a country, and modifying the fortunes of
a race by the advice he might give — was powerless
before his boy. He could not turn Paul from the way
he had chosen, nor persuade him to think differently.
He might be able to destroy old corporations, to raise
up new cities, to disestablish a church, or disturb an
empire ; but he could not make a change in the fancies
of his son — whether it was in his opinions, or in his
inclinations; that was altogether beyond his powder.
He sighed heavily as he went and came from the dull
green-painted wall, to the dull table covered with a
green cloth. The Queen might listen to him, and the
country; but Paul would not listen. What wonder
that his wife covering her hot eyes with her hand, and
knowing that Paul's contumacy would steal all the
pleasure out of her life, should feel herself powerless too ?
VOL. I. p

There was one tiling however that threw a little light
on Lady Markham's thoughts — one person to whom she
could still appeal. She did not speak of this to her
husband, who might, she felt, oppose her purpose. But
she told Alice, with whom her consultations were still
more confidential and detailed.

'' He was made welcome in our house," she said ;
he was received as well as if he had been — any one
else ; and he is not a man without sense or feeling. If
it is put before him as it ought, he will understand. I
will go and speak to Mr. Spears "

About — his daughter ? " Alice faltered.

Lady Markham did not make any reply. She would
not say anything about the chief object of her mission.
What she wanted above all things was to test the
truthfulness of her son's assertion that this daughter
^Yas nothing to him. Sir William put no faith in these
assertions ; but Paul's mother believed in him with
trembling, even while she feared, and longed for some
indirect testimony which would convince her husband.
She thought over it all night, while she lay awake
listening to the clocks answering each other with hour
after hour.

Paul had not responded to his mother's inquiries, as
they had all hoped. He had resisted her questions
proudly, and he had not attempted to explain.

You have made up your mind, you and my father,
that I have not spoken the truth," he said. " Why
should I repeat what you will not believe ? I have
nothing to say but what I have said."

'' Oh, Paul, look in my face, and tell me — tell
me ! " she said. " I will not doubt you." Bat he
was obdurate.

I have told you," he said, 'rand you have doubted."

There was something even in this pride and indignant
resistance of her entreaties which moved his
mother to believe in him ; but Sir William was of a
different opinion. Her heart was torn asunder with
doubt and fear ; and here was the one way in which
she could know. Her husband might think of Spears
as a dangerous demagogue, but to her he was a man
whose face had brightened at the sight of her children,
a man to whom she had given her own ready sympathy
a human creature, whom she knew. Had she not a
right to go to him, to appeal to him to relinquish his
hold on her boy ? Whether it was by his arguments,

p 2

or by something less abstract, he had, it seemed, power
which was almost absolute over her boy. Lady Markham
did not mean to say anything to him about his
daughter, to ask of him whether it was love for her
which was leading Paul away ; but could any one doubt
that she would discover the truth if she could see him,
and speak to him without any one to interfere between
them ? She could not endure the doubts of Paul which
rose in her own mind, nor to be obliged to listen to his
father's doubts of him, and say no word in his defence.
Notwithstanding her sleepless night, she got up very
early in the morning, full of this idea, and stole out of
the inn unperceived. It was not till the morning air
blowing in her face, and the looks of the passers-by,
which, like any one unaccustomed to go about alone, she
thought specially directed to her, had fully roused her
out of the mist of thought in which she was enveloped,
that she remembered that she did not know Adhere
Spears was to be found. "What Alas she to do ? She
went along vaguely, unwilling to return, past Paul's
college, with all its vacant windows twinkling in the
sun, by the way which her husband had taken when he
went to seek Paul the day before. Her heart gave a

little leap as she passed the gate to see some one
come out whose face seemed familiar to her. Was it
Paul so early ? Had he changed his habits like everything
else ? But she saw very well it was not Paul ; it
was his friend who had guided Sir William in search
of him on the previous day.

Young Fairfax took off his hat respectfully, and
would have passed, but she stopped and beckoned to
him to come to her. Here, too, Providence had thrown
in her way a witness who might corroborate Paul.
She was out of breath with agitation when he came
across the street.

Can I — be of any use. Lady Markham ? " the
young man said.

If it will not detain you — if it is not out of your
way," she said, with anxious politeness, "would you
show me where Mr. Spears lives — Mr. Spears — I think
my husband said you knew him — the — the public speaker
the — very great Radical — he whom my son knows ? "

Fairfax was puzzled for the moment by this respectful
description.

Oh, Spears ! " he cried at last, suddenly waking to
intelligence ; he had not heard him called Mr. Spears

before. A laugh woke about the corners of bis mouth.
He was apt to laugh at most thugs, and it amused him
to hear the softening politeness with which the great
lady spoke of the demagogue. But the next moment
the wistful anxiety in Lady Markham's eyes made
him ashamed of his smile.

I will show you the place if you will let me go
with you," he said.

It seemed some strange negligence on the part of the
race generally that such a woman should be unattended
wherever she might choose to go. He was a democrat
too, mildly, with less devotion to Spears than Paul, yet
with some interest in his teaching ; but Paul's mother
roused within him a natural loyalty and respect which
was not in accordance with these principles — loyalty in
which a subtle unexpressed regard for her rank mingled
with reverence for herself. It was not as a mere woman
and his friend's mother, but also as a lady — the kind
that queens are made of — that she affected his mind.
The idea of her required an attendant, a servant, a
retainer. He put himself into the vacant place hastily,
to repair the neglect of the world.

Lady Markham took an unfair advantage of this

devotion. She plied him ^vith questions — subtle and
skilful — not always about Paul, but coming back to
Paul with many a wily twist and turn. She threw
herself with the warmest pretence of interest into his
own career — what he was doing, how his studies were
being directed, what his future was to be ? Was it a
pretence ? No, it was not altogether a pretence. She
could not but be polite, and true politeness cannot but
be interested. She was pleased that he should tell her
about himself, and a kind of shadow of an anxiety that
he too should do well came into her mind — a shadow
faint and vague of her great anxiety and longing that
Paul should do well, better than any one had ever done
before. And like a lark descending in circles of cautious
approach to her home, she came back to Paul when her
young companion was off his guard, when she had
beguiled him to babble of himself.

Ah ! " she said, " I fear you are both idle, both
Paul and you," when Fairfax had been making
confession of sundry shortcomings.

No, Markham is not like me," he said. " Markham
puts more of himself into everything ; he does not
take things lightly as I do. He is a more serious

fellow altogether. That makes me rather fear Spears's
influence over him, if you will let me say so."

'indeed I will let you say so," Paul's mother
replied. '' That is just what makes me unhappy. He
is a great deal with Mr. Spears ? "

One time and another — yes, they have seen a great
deal of each other," Fairfax said. '' Perhaps you don't
know, Spears is the most entertaining fellow. He has
his own opinion about everything. I think myself
he is wrong just as often as he is right; but he has his
own way of looking at things. I don't go with him in
half he says, but I like to hear him talk "

'rand his house is a pleasant place to go to?" said
the anxious mother. "Excuse me if I don't quite
know. He is not in any kind of society, but he has a
family ? It is a pleasant house ? "

Fairfax stared and then he laughed.

It is not a house at all, in the way you think of,"
he said. " I don't suppose you can form any idea — we
go and talk to him in his workshop. There is no sort
of ceremony. He will hold forth for the hour when he
is in the vein, and he is very entertaining — but as for
what you understand by a pleasant house "

Lady Markham's heart grew lighter every moment.
But he has a family ? " she said.
Oh, yes — there are girls, I believe," said Fairfax.
Alas he on his guard ? She almost feared the directness
of this question had put him on his guard.
One sees them sometimes running out and in, but
that has nothing to do with it," be added, carelessly.
'' In his class it is not at all the same as in other
ranks of life."

Here there was a pause. Not an inference was
there in all this of any other influence than that of
the political visionary — the influence which Paul acknowledged.
Lady Markham's heart had given a leap
of pleasure. Oh, if Sir William had but heard this
careless, impartial witness, every word of whose
evidence supported that of Paul ! But then a chili
breath of suspicion came over her. What if he were
less unconscious than she thought, skilfully arranging
his replies so as to back up Paul's assertions ? This
discouraged and silenced her, in spite of herself. How
easy it is to learn the miserable alphabet of suspicion !
She went along with him doubtfully, sick at heart,
asking no more questions, not knowing whether there

was anything in the whole matter to which she could
trust.

There is Spears's shop. You will find him at work
already ; he is always early. May I come back again
for you, Lady Markham, in case you should miss the
Fay to the hotel ? "

You are very kind," she said ; but the sight of the
place where Paul had spent so much of his time raised
again a sick flutter in her bosom. She waved her hand
to him without any further reply, with a smile which
went to his heart ; and then crossed over, dismissing
him thus, and went direct to the fountain-head of
information — to Spears's open door.

Spears was seated on his bench, with his tools and
his glue-pot, as Sir William had seen him on the
previous day, when Lady Markham entered the shop.
He had never ceased to be industrious at his work,
though he had so many other things to do. Indeed,
the many other things he had to do made it incumbent
unison him to work early and late, in order to keep,
as he called it, " the pot boiling." For he was not a
paid agitator. The man was proud, as men will be in
all stations ; and, moreover, he was uncertain — not to
be calculated upon as a supporter ol' all kinds of
measures which might be proved good for " the trade,"
and therefore not half so serviceable an implement as
many who were much less powerful. Like the independent
member who cannot be trusted always to vote

with one party, he was looked upon with doubt even
by those who took the greatest advantage of his gifts.
His influence had never done himself any good. He
had acquired it by exhausting labour, which had taken
him away from the work by which he made his bread,
without supplying any bread in the interval to nourish
those who were dependent upon him ; and the consequence
was that he had to work at other times early
and late, and was saved from all possibility of the idle
life which a stump orator may be so easily led into.
His shop itself was swept and clean, the boards freshly
watered in large damp circles still marked upon the
wood, and a great bundle of large flowers — sunflowers
and dahlias — stuck into a large jug, stood in the
window among the picture-frames. Some brilliant
gladiolas, in the brightest tints of colour, lay neglected
on the floor, and a great magnificent stalk of foxglove
nodded on the table at which he was working. These
floral decorations, unexpected in such a place, made
the shop cheerful ; and so did a stray ray of morning
sun, which got in through a break in the houses
opposite, and fell across it, dividing it as with a line of
gold. The door stood open ; the air, even though

laden with varnish, retained some freshness. Lady
Markham came in softly, and stood, her heart beating,
not knowing well how to open this important interview,
in the middle of the sunshine. Her breath came
quick. Now that she had arrived at the point for
which she had been aiming, a sudden alarm seized her.
Might it not have been better, she asked herself,
hurriedly, to remain in ignorance — not to seek to be convinced
? There are things which it is better not to know.

Spears, who was whistling over his work, did not
hear the light footstep coming in ; but he noted, with
the quick sense of a man to whom daylight is indispensable,
the shadow that had come across the sunshine.
He paused and looked up. A doubt — a
question came over his face. Was it possible he did
not know her ? Then he rose and came forward,
holding out to Lady Markham a hand not free from
stains of the varnish which perfumed the shop.

Is it you, my lady ? " he cried. His face beamed
over with a smile of welcome, but showed no surprise
or alarm at the appearance of such an inquisitor. He
drew forth a rough wooden seat without any back, and
placed it in the centre of the vacant space.

I am very glad to see you in my poor place' he said.

'thank you," said Lady Markham. She glanced
round her with a little perturbation. She did not
know how to begin. " Mr. Spears ! " she said, faltering
a little, ^' I vas very glad to see you in my house."

Were you, my lady ? " He stood before her with
a good-humoured smile upon his face, but slightly
shook his head. '' Never mind, you were as kind as if
you had been glad to see me, and that says more.
But your husband upbraided me for coming to his
house in his absence, which you know was your son's
fault, and not mine."

It is of my son I want to speak to you," said Lady
Markham, seizing this easy means of introducing her
subject. " Mr. Spears, you know something of what
he is to me — my eldest boy, the one who should
be the prop of the family : to whom his brothers and
sisters will look hereafter as the head of the
family."

'ray, that's just it," said the revolutionary. "Why
should they look to him ? What is there so creditable
in being the eldest son ? It was no thanks to
him. He was not born first for any merit of his. Far

better to teach them to depend on themselves — to give
them their just share — to make no eldest sons."

"As if that were possible," Lady Markham said,
with a soft smile at this theoretical folly. '' One must
be the eldest, whatever you say ; and if any harm
were to happen to us," she added, after a pause,
raising her beautiful head, '' I have no fear that Paul
would give up his position then. If we were to become
poor, to lose all we have — such things have
happened, Mr. Spears — my boy would not find it hard
to remember to take up his duties as the eldest
son ! "

'' Ah ! " said Spears in involuntary sympathy.
Then he added with again the same good-humoured
smile, '' There now, that is how you get the better of
us, you aristocrats. You are terribly cunning in
argument, my lady. You get over us by a suggestion
of generosity when we are talking of justice. The
thing will never happen, of course — not in our day,
more's the pity — your money and your land will never
be taken from you."

''Do you think that is a pity, Mr. Spears ? "

Yv^ell, yes," he said, laughing, '' from our point of

view ; but it will never happen, not in our time. And
even if it did happen, don't you think it would be far
better to live each man for himself, and not a whole
family casting themselves on the shoulders of your
son Paul ? "

My son Paul," said Lady Markham, in a low voice,
looking at him through the tears in her eyes, " will be
far away from us — will not be at hand to be of use or
consolation in case anything should happen to us, if
you and he have your will, Mr. Spears. He will be
far away where he will be of no use to his family,
Such a thing might happen, though God forbid it ! as
that I might be left to struggle alone for my children ;
and ' Paul, my eldest, my natural help, far away, lost
to me, as if he had never been."

Spears turned away while she was speaking, and
returned to his bench. He cleared his throat ; his face
flushed ; he was as much embarrassed as she had been
at the beginning, and did not know how to reply.

My lady," he said, " this is too bad ; I think it is
too bad. After all a man has more things to think, of
in this world than whether his family has need of him,
or if he can be of use to his mamma."

He said the last word with a semitone of ridicule,
then blushed for himself as he caught her eye. Lady
Markham saw her advantage. She would not let him
escape.

*' Are there then many things in this world that are
better than being of use to your family, and helping ina
hard task your mother ? Do you think so, Mr.
Spears ? Ah, no ! I am certain you don't. You are
talking au lout des Livres, not from your heart. If we
should ever need him, Paul will be— who can tell? —
thousands and thousands of miles away ; and for what ?
Why do you want him to go with you ? Why are you
going ? I do not know the reason. Because you are
impatient, and do not like the manner in which things
are arranged at home ? "

We will not enter into that, my lady," said Spears ;
we will not enter into that."

He said this, half in contempt of her intelligence,
which did not rise to his lofty view, half because (and
this really meant the same thing) it was very difficult
to explain why he thought it expedient to go away.
Many motives were mingled in his resolution which he
did not dwell upon even to himself. He was tired of

VOL. I. Q

poor work aud poor pay, and the struggle of living ;
tired of having to manufacture pictures-frames for
bread v^hen he could have done something so much
better : and disgusted that his higher work got no real
appreciation from any one. And he was tired too even
of his agitation, the speeches and popular applause
which were all very well for the moment, but neither
seemed to convince any one, nor to affect the world at
all. All this was going on day after day, week after
week, but never came to anything. Often speakers
whom he knew to be much inferior to himself were
more warmly applauded ; and some whom he considered
(as other people considered him) to be stump
orators and noisy demagogues, got elevated and
salaried, and swaggered about in all the importance of
delegates and representatives of the people, while he
received no such distinction. Though this was partly
his own fault through the pride and love of independence
which characterised him, yet Spears felt it. It
soured him, in spite of himself. All this, however, lay
in his heart undivulged, except by a bitter word now
and then ; and what he said to himself was that the
old country was thoroughly corrupt and hopeless, but

that in a new country, under better conditions, life
would be more worth having. Did this fine lady, who
knew nothing about it, divine what was secretly shut up
in his mind ? He grew half afraid of her, simple and
ignorant as she had seemed to him a little while before.

Ah, Mr. Spears, let us speak of it ! You forget
how important it is to me. But for you, I should not
run any risk of losing my boy."

'' I did not propose that he should come with me.
You will do me the justice to believe, Lady Markham,
that I never attempted to bias him."

"To bias him," she said — "what is it then? Is it
not all your doing ? Why ^ should Paul go away, but
for you ? He has got these notions which you have
taught him into his head — "

On the contrary," said the workman, " I have told
him that were I in his place I should certainly stay in
England. This is no place for a poor man who thinks
but for a man who is not poor, who has a position
like his, why, it is the ideal place. There is no
aristocracy so solid as in England. I have told him
so a hundred times."

Lady Markham's face grew whiter and whiter. It

Q 2

did not occur to her that this very advice might be
conveyed in a tone which would make Paul wildly
indignant at the supposed immunity and privileged
condition with which his friend credited him. Such an
explanation did not occur to her. Dismay stole over
her heart ; it was then as Sir William thought — Paul
was not telling them the truth. The cause of his wild
project was not philosophy and foolish opinions, since
even his leader disowned it. It was something else.
Her heart sank within her, she lost the control of
her better sense. '' If it is not you," she said, " who
is it then — who is it, Mr. Spears ? You have — a
daughter ? " This seemed to come from her in spite
of herself.

"A daughter — I have three," he said, 'but what
have they — " here he stopped, and getting up from his
bench grave vent to a low whistle of astonishment and
perplexity. He was as much surprised as she could
be, and not much more pleased. He gazed at hera
moment speechless. " Can that be so ? " he said.

Impossible to sink lower than Lady Markham's heart
sank — it seemed to melt away altogether in humiliation
and disappointment. She looked at him piteously, thei



tears so gathering into her eyes that she could scarcely
see his face.

Oh, Mr. Spears' she cried, " you know what such
a connection always comes to ; disappointment on both
sides — the woman's as well as the man's. Whatever
his feelings may be now, he would soon find out that
she was not — like the women he had been used to ;
and she would find herself among — habits that were
not congenial to her. Oh, Mr. Spears, for both their
sakes — you that Paul thinks so much of, you whose
opinion he follows so meekly — oh, will you not exert
your authority, and forbid it — forbid it altogether ? "

Lady Markham lost control of the words she was
saying. She did not think whether this was likely to
be a mode of entreaty that would be grateful to him.
She lost her own fine sense of what was fit and
seemly, in the eagerness of the appeal which might
save her boy.

He stood over her, looking at her, changed she
could not tell how. His face clouded over before her
eyes. At first this seemed only the effect of the
tears that blinded her, but when these latter fell she
became aware that the countenance which had been

SO good-humoured and friendly was full now of a very
different sentiment. The man seemed to have expanded
even in outline as he stood between her and
the light.

'* Forbid it, forbid it altogether ! " he repeated, with a
smile that seemed to freeze her. 'why?" She felt
herself tremble before him as he fixed his eyes upon
her. " My lady," he said, " you forget where you are,
and you forget your politeness for once. How do you
know my girl is not like the women he has been used
to ? By God ! she's better than most he'll meet with
among your depraved and worn-out race. My girl !
if it is true, and she likes him, do you think I would
forbid it, to save your fine blood from pollution, and
keep your Paul for some fine lady of the kind he's
been used to ? No, not for a million of mothers — not
for all the soft-spoken insults in the world."

Lady Markham made no reply ; she could not, her
agitation was so great ; but indignation began to steady
her nerves, and give back her forces. What had she
said to call for this ? How dared he speak of insult,
the man whom she felt she had honoured by coming
to him, by appealing to him ? She was not an angel.

though she was a good woman, and instinctively she
began to call together her faculties, to range herself,
as it were, on her own side.

Apparently, however, after this outburst, Spears felt
ashamed of himself A fine sense of courtesy was in
the man, almost finer than her own. He began to be
ashamed of having thus violated hospitality, of having
so addressed her in his own house. He turned away
from her to recover himself, turning his back upon her,
then came back with again a changed aspect. " I beg
your pardon," he said ; '' I ought to have more control
of myself in my own place. I don't believe it's true
what you think. No, my lady, I don't mean you're
saying what you don't believe — I think you're deceived.
I won't ask who's told you, or how it's come into your
head ; I'll put it to a better test. I'll ask the girl
herself."

Mr. Spears," said Lady Markham, " you have been
very rude to me ; I have not insulted you, nor did I
mean to do so. It never occurred to me," she added,
with a fine sting in her words which penetrated through
all his armour, " that I need fear anything from i/ou
which I should not have encountered in — another rank

of life. But I do not wish to make reprisals," she said,
with a faint smile, rising from her seat. "If you
question your daughter on such a subject it ought
not to be before me."

'' My lady," cried Spears, his face full of passion,
'' unless it is to be open war between us it shall be
before you. If there's love between them there should
be no shame in it. My girl is one that can hold up
her head before any on the face of the earth. It is
not my beginning, but it shall be settled and cleared
up on the spot. Janet ! come down here, I want you,"
he called at the foot of the stairs.

Even in the midst of her agitation. Lady Markham
had been conscious of sounds above, footsteps and
young voices, one of which indeed had been persistently
singing all the time, some trivial song of the moment
in a clear little sweet voice, like the trill of a bird.
The insignificant tune had run through all this exciting
interview, and worked itself into Lady Markham's
head, and in spite of herself she stood still, not resisting
any longer, turning towards the stairs involuntarily,
watching for the appearance of the girl who (perhaps)
was dearer to her boy than anything else, who, perhaps,

was his motive for relinquishing everything else, including
his mother's happiness and the comfort of his
family. What woman could remain unmoved under
such circumstances ? Once more her heart began to
beat as she turned her face towards the dingy stairs.
Was it some beautiful apparition which was to appear
from it, some creature such as exists in poetry, some
woman for whom it would be comprehensible that a
man should give up all ? Lady Markham had romance
enough in her to feel that this was possible, almost to
wish it, while she feared it. If it were so, it would be
more easy to forgive Paul. Ah, forgive him ! — that
was never hard ; that was not the question. Our forgiveness,
like a weeping angel, is it not always hovering,
forestalling even the evil to be forgiven, over our
children's wayward ways ? But to get it out of her
mind, out of her memory, that he had deceived her,
that was not so easy. She, who had come in search of
evidence to exonerate Paul, can any one wonder that
she stood trembling, scarcely seeing, scarcely hearing,
yet all eyes and ears, to receive the testimony of this
indisputable witness, against whom there could be no
appeal ? But when the girl's foot sounded on the stair

it seemed to Lady Markham that she had already given
up all hope that Paul was true — provided only that this
woman for whom he had compromised the honour of
his word, might at least afford some justification for
the sacrifice.

What is it, father ? do you want me ? "
The girl spoke to her father, but her eyes were
caught instantly by the unusual apparition of the lady
in the shop. Who was she ? not an ordinary customer,
not anybody with an order for picture frames. A flutter
awoke in Janet's breast. Was it perhaps somebody
sent from the shop to offer that situation which was
the dream of her fancy ? a situation, she did not quite
know what, varying as her hopes and sense of self-importance
varied from that of a companion (which,
the foreman of the shop had told her, her manners
and look were equal to — not to speak of her education)
to that of a lady's maid. Emigration was not an idea
which pleased Janet. She was afraid of the sea, afraid
of the unknown, and not at all desirous of being always

at home, shut up within the circle of family duties and
companionship. She wanted to see the world, as all
young people had, she thought, a right to do. To go
into the wilds had no charm for her. She had grownup
in the close presence of all her father's theories
without being affected by one of them. She had heard
him speak by the hour and had paid no attention. All
his moral independence, the haughtiness of his determination
to be his own master, and stand under subjection
to no man, affected his child no more than to
make her wish the more fervently for that '' situation,"
which would deliver her from the monotony of these
holdings forth." Janet's ideal of a happy existence
was that of a large '' establishment " where there
would be a crowd of servants, elegant valets and
splendid butlers at the feet of the pretty maid whom
nobody would be able to tell from a lady — or perhaps a
chance of catching the eye of the master of one of
these fine gentlemen, who would make her a lady in
earnest, with servants of her own. Nobody knew of
these secret dreams which occupied her fancy, and grew
and flourished in the atmosphere of the shop ; but
when her father called her suddenly, and she came

down to see Lady Markham standing so exactly like
(she thought) a lady whom the foreman might have
sent with the offer of a situation, her heart bes^an to
beat, and her head to turn round with excitement —
excitement only not so great as that of the woman
who stood gazing at her with wistful eyes, asking herself
if this was the woman whom Paul preferred to
all the world.

Janet was tall, and possessed what the people at the
shop called '' a lovely figure ; " the mantles and jackets
never looked so well as upon her. The habit of
putting these garments on, and making a little parade
in front of the glass to show them, which was her daily
duty, had given a certain ease of carriage not usual in
her class. When you are accustomed to be gazed at,
whether for yourself, or what you carry on your
shoulders, it takes away the native embarrassment of
the self-conscious creative. Lie was dressed in that
gown of black alpaca which is the uniform of the
shops, and which did full justice to the fine lines of
her form. These were not the mere slim outlines of a
girlish figure which might turn to anything, but really
beautiful, finely proportioned, and imposing. She came

down into her father's shop, into the line of sunshine
that crossed it, with the air of a young queen. Her
face, however, was not so fine. She was pale, her nose
not quite so delicate, her mouth not so small as beauty
demanded Her hair was fair, with little colour in it,
and affording but little relief to the forehead upon
which it clustered in a wild but careful disorder, according
to the fashion of the time. Lady Markham took
in every line and every feature as the girl advanced :
far more critically than if she had been, as Janet
thought, an intending employer did she examine this
new unknown being who (was it possible ?) had Paul's
future in her hands. They gazed at each other, forgetting
the man who stood by watching their mutual
interest with what would have been amusement had he
been less indignant and curious. Men and women are
always so strange to each other. He looked at these
two with a half-despairing, half-comic (notwithstanding
his seriousness) consciousness that the ideas that were
going through their minds were to him a sealed book.
He did not know, poor man, that the lady, who was a
stranger, was the one of the two that was comprehensible
to him, and that stranger than all Greek or Latin,

more mysterious than philosophy, would have been to
him, had he been able to see them, the thoughts in
the mind of his own child.

'' I want to ask you a question, Janet. Don't be
alarmed, it is not anything to frighten you," he said.
In the first place this is Lady Markham, the mother
of Mr. Markham whom you have so often seen here."

Janet made a curtsey to the lady, uttering a little
confused " Oh ! " of wonder, and opening her eyes, and
even her mouth, in surprise. Could Mr. Markham
have recommended her? Mr. Markham She did
not know what to think. Why should he wish her to
be under his mother's care ? Thought goes quick at
all times, quickest of all in such a crisis, when the
next word may change all your prospects in life. Her
mind plunged forward in a moment into a world of
possibilities, while her eyelids quivered with that expression,
and her mouth kept the form of the '' Oh ! '"
tremulous and astonished. The quiver communicated
itself to her whole frame — what might come next ?

"You must understand," said Lady Markham
quickly, " that I have nothing to do with the question
your father is going to ask you. It is not put inconsequence

of anything I have told him — nor is it
put at my desire."

Spears gave a little laugh, elevating his eyebrows.
Yes, this was the sort of thing to be expected. She
had led him on to it, and now she protested that she
had nothing to do with it — was not this the kind of
tactics pursued by her class in all ages ? To push the
frank and honest man of the people into a corner and
then to disown him. He laughed, though he had not
much inclination to laugh.

Quite right, quite true," he said ; " it is for my
own satisfaction entirely. Janet, nobody has ever
come between you and me," the man added with a
certain pathos. He looked at his daughter with a mist
of honest affection and trust in his eyes, and without
an idea, without a suspicion, that between him and her
lay a whole world of difference, indescribable by
ordinary words. '' I have been father and mother both
to you. Answer me, my girl, without any fear. Mr.
Markham has told his family that he is going with us
to Queensland. Janet, answer me plainly, is it out of
love for you ? "

Father ! " Janet, whose face was turned towards

him, gave a sudden cry. In a moment a flame of
colour went over her. She opened her eyes still wider,
and her mouth, with dismay. '' Oh, father ! father ! "
she cried, in a tone of warning and alarm.

It seemed to Lady Markham that nothing more was
necessary. Her limbs refused to support her any
longer. She sank upon the seat which she had
abandoned. The girl was afraid to speak the truth
before her ; but yet what doubt could there be of
the meaning in her voice.

'' I ask you to tell me plainly — to speak out as
between you and me," said Spears. He was not slow
to perceive what her tone implied, and the warning in
it made him angry. "There is no reason why you
should hesitate to say it. If so it is, there is nothing
wrong in it as far as I can see. Blush you must, I
suppose — girls cannot help it ; but tell me, like an
innocent creature as you are, tell me the truth. I tell
you there is nothing to be ashamed of. Is it out of
love for you ? "

Her thoughts rushed, tumbling over each other in a
wild dance, a feverish Bacchic procession, through
Janet's head. She did not mean to say, or even to

VOL. I. E

imply what was not true. But such questioning could
only mean one thing, that Mr. Markham had confessed
to his mother that he was " in love " for her — that
unthought-of, bewildering promotion was within her
reach. She did not mean to tell a lie. She blushed
more hotly than ever.

Oh, father, how can you ask me such a thing —
before a lady ? " she said.
Then it is true ? "

Janet did not make any reply ; she dropped her
head with a modest grace, twisting her fingers together
nervously, her whole frame quivering. It was
not she that had told them anything : they had told
her. Ah ! she remembered now a score of little
nothings. Had not he picked up her thimble for her
when she let it fall ? Had not he opened the door for
her when she came and went? How often she had
wondered how he could come night after night
and day after day — for what ? — to talk to father,
to listen to father ! Many and many a time she had
wondered at, and in her heart despised, her father's
disciples. It was '' bosh " that he was saying, and yet
these others would sit round him and take it all in.

But here was something altogether different. That a
young man should only have pretended to listen to
father, should have come for herself all the time, was
quite comprehensible to Janet. There was nothing
strange even — nothing out of the way in it. It was
what lovers had done from the beginning of time.

Is that all you have got to say ? " said her father.
Can't you give us any more satisfaction ? Speak out
when I tell you, Janet All this time that he has been
coming here, not saying a word to you, pretending to be
my disciple — " A little sting of wounded vanity was
in Spears too. He did not quite like to feel that he
had been deceived, that his most fervent follower was
nothing but the lover of his daughter. '' All this time,"
he repeated, " has it been for you he has been coming ?
That is what we want to know."

Still Janet said nothing. She stood with her eyes
cast down, interlacing her fingers in and out, out and
in — her mind in such a sudden heat of active operation
that she had not leisure to speak. It was not the first
time that the idea had presented itself to her. She had
thought of it as a very desirable thing that Mr. Markham
(or one of the others) should fall in love with her. But

R 2

Tip to this moment she had not been able to see any likelihood
of her desire realising itself. However, her mind
leaped into instant action, supporting with a whole array
of proof the suggestion so suddenly placed before her,
of the truth of which she did not entertain a moment's
doubt. How could she doubt it ? If he had told his
mother, certainly it must be true ; and the other facts
adapted themselves as by magic to this great central
fact. As soon as she had got possession of that as a
foundation, the details seemed to come at a wish, and a
whole superstructure of blessedness sprang upwards
towards the skies.

I don't know what you wish me to say, father," she
answered, at last, after another peremptory call. She
spoke with all the modesty of conviction, for she felt
now that every word was true. '' There are things as a
girl cannot speak about. There are a deal of things as
are nothing in themselves ; but still a girl knows what
they mean."

These modest words gave an indescribable pang to both
her hearers. As for Spears, it was all he could do not
to cry out with anger and pain. To think that at this
great crisis, at a moment when so much depended upon

it, she should speak with such disregard of grammar,
notwithstanding all the care he had taken of her
education.

There are things as a girl cannot speak about."

He knew that this would catch Lady Markham's ears,
and he felt himself humbled before her — not because of
the fact, which there was no harm in, which was indeed
natural enough ; but that his girl should tell it in such
grammar occupied Spears to the exclusion of deeper
sentiment. He turned to his visitor with a conciliatory-tone,
and a look of deprecation as if asking her
pardon.

Well ! " he said, '' my lady ! there does not seem to
be much doubt on that point. We will have to makeup
our minds to it, though it is not what I could
have wished, any more than you."

The very light seemed darkened in Lady Markham's
eyes, the room went round with her, and she saw nothing
clearly. Oh, why had she come here to make sure !
Why had she not let it alone, all vague as it was ! An
hour ago she had thought anything better than uncertainty
— but now uncertainty itself would have been
a boon. She looked at Spears, catching the tone of

deprecation in his voice, which seemed so natural, and
made a sudden appeal to him.

Make up. our minds to it," she cried. " How is that
possible ? Oh, Mr. Spears, I have always thought you
so superior to anything of the kind. You would not
take advantage of the confidence placed in you ; you
would not allow my boy, because of his admiration for
your talents, to ruin himself, to compromise his position,
to disappoint all our hopes I "

She rose up and put out her hands, appealing — in the
forgetfulness of personal despair — to his generosity,
though it was against himself and his own child. The
most courteous, the most considerate person will forget
when it is their own dearest interests which are concerned.

His fantastic distress about the grammar went out of
the man's mind. His forehead contracted, a gleam of
anger came from his eyes. But he had no doubt as to
having right on his side, and he answered with dignity.
"Madam," he said, 'ewe had better understand each
other. I don't want your son any more than you want
my daughter ; but they have their rights, and if they
like each other I will not interfere."

She was driven almost wild by this reply. "Sir

William will never consent — lie will never consent toit,"
she cried.

*' That's none of my business — nor my child's," said
Spears. He forgot the respect with which she had
inspired him. 'there's the difference between your
class and mine, my lady," he said with some scorn. " I
consider the one thing needful in a marriage is love — on
both sides. In our rank of life we don't consider much
more. We don't ask questions about a girl's ancestors
or her fortune. Most likely there's none of either
sort, as in this case — but where there is love, what
more is wanting ? You will never persuade me to
interfere."

Marriage ! " she repeated, in a voice of dismay. Of
course that was what it must come to. She cast a look
of dismay and almost horror at the girl who would, if
this were so, take her own place, and hold her position
in the world. She rose up suddenly from her rude seat,
feeling that her limbs still failed her, but that in any
case she could stay no longer here. " Oh, there is a
great deal more wanting — a great deal more," she cried.
Life is not so simple for us. A woman should know
what she undertakes — what weight she will have on her

shoulders. There are other things to be taken into
consideration in such a life as ours."

*' You think so," said Spears. What he intended to
be a superior smile dwindled into something like a sneer.
He did not like this assertion, which he could not
contradict. After all, it was true enough that his own
existence was far more elementary and primitive than
the other, and he did not like the thought.

*' You do not know," said Lady Markham, *you
cannot understand the difficulties of people who are
looked up to by a whole district, who have the comfort
of others, the very life of many in their hands. But
why should I speak of this ? " she said. *' I thought
you understood, but you do not understand. Now it
is war between us, as you said. I want to harm no
one, but I must do what I can for my boy."

She made them a curtsey which (for she could not
be uncivil) included both father and daughter, then
drew down her veil with a trembling hand and hurried
away.

Spears went after her to the door. He was furious at
this calm assertion of something higher, larger, and more
elevated in her different rank ; yet he could not help

a certain reverence, an unwilling worship of the lady, of
whom he had once said regretfully that nothing like her
was ever produced in his own. He went to the door, and
gazed after her as she went along, her steps still hurried
and agitated, but her natural grace coming back to her.
Looked up to by a whole district — the comfort of others,
their very life in her hands." Ah ! there might be
something in that after all. He felt in his own veins a
fulness, a swell of rising blood as of a man able to bear
others upon his shoulders, and fearing no responsibility.
That should come in the new world to which he was
bound. There he too would cease to be a single unit
among other isolated individuals, and would become
a head also, a leader, the first of a community. He
felt as if she had dared him to it, and he would
achieve it. But as he stood there half-angry, half-stimulated,
he was aware of his daughter behind him,
straining on tiptoe to look over his shoulder — and
turned round, looking at her with a new principle of
judgment and discrimination in his eyes.

Was it really Lady Markham ? Is she Mr. Markham's
mother ? " said Janet, breathless with excitement.
Oh, how pretty she must have been, father ! She's

not a bit nicely dressed, not what I would call equal to
her situation. But she looks a real lady. Don't soil
think you would know she was a real lady, whatever
she had on ? "

I don't know what you mean by a real lady. You
are quite as silly as the rest, you little fool."

Oh, but you do know," cried Janet. " Miss Stitches
puts on lovely things, but she never has that look. Was
that the lady that was so kind to you in the country ?
in that beautiful grand house ? "

Did I say she was kind to me ? " said Spears,
melting a little. "Well, yes, I suppose she was."

And was it really," said Janet, drooping her head,
after she had cast one keen glance at her father's face,
"really — about nothing but Mr. Markham's nonsense
that she came here ? "

Janet," said her father, taking her by the hand — his
mind had wandered from the great question of the
moment, but her words brought it suddenly back. He
looked tenderly and anxiously into the girl's face, which
sank before his gaze, but only with an easy blush and
pleasant embarrassment. " I don't want to be inquisitorial.
I don't want to pry into what is perhaps too

delicate for a man's ear. But tell me if you can what
you mean by Mr. Markham's nonsense ? He has always
seemed very serious to me. Try and tell me if you can
try and speak to me as you would have spoken if
your mother had been here."

This touched her heart, for she was not a bad girl.
She began to cry a little. " She would not have asked
me — she would have understood," she said. 'godfathers
what can I tell you beyond what I have told
you ? Besides, what does it matter what I say ?
He must have spoke himself, or what brought the lady
here ? "

This seemed conclusive to Spears too. It did not
occur to him that " Mr. Markham's nonsense " must
mean something more than what Paul had said to his
mother. He put his arm round his child, and drew
her close to him. " You should not say ' he must have
spoke,' Janet — though it would seem indeed as if he
had said something. She wanted me to order him off.
Tell me, my girl, are you really — fond of this young
fellow ? " he said, with persuasive tenderness. " Don't
turn your face away, there is nothing to be ashamed of.
I thought you were but a child, and lo ! you area

woman with lovers after you' he went on, with a
smile that was pathetic. " I can't say I like it, but
it's nature, and I won't complain."

Oh don't, father," said Janet, drawing herself away.
Don't ! How can I tell you — or any one ? " There was
just enough of feeling to give a natural air of pretty
reserve and delicacy to the girlish shrinking, the quick
movement she made to conceal her face from his eyes.
Her voice was tremulous, her cheeks suffused with the
blush of excitement and pleasant confusion. After a
pause she turned half round and asked, as if avoiding
a more difficult question, " Is it a very grand house ?
Will it come to him after ? Will he be a Sii^ too ? "

If it lasts till his time," said the revolutionary,
which let us hope it will not. The chances are, that
all these detestable distinctions will be swept away long
before, and the wrongs of the poor be made an end of.
The country will not bear it much longer."

Oh ! " cried Janet, forgetting her bashfulness, and
turning upon him a face full of eager vehemence and
indignation. " I am sick of hearing of the country !
What harm does it do the country ? Will they have a
penny the more for taking away his money ? Why

shouldn't I be a lady as well as any one else ? To
have a grand house, and a man in livery to walk behind
me is what I should like above everything ! I hope it
will last till our time. I don't believe there will be
any difference. Oh, father, won't you just give up
making speeches and holding meetings, and let things

Janet ! " he cried, with a flash of anger ; but it
seemed ludicrous, after all, to attach any importance to
what such a child said. He laughed a confused and
disconcerted laugh. " That doesn't come well from my
daughter ! And what do you know about such things ?
You are a little goose, and that is all about it. Besides,
what does it matter ? We are all going to Queensland
he, too. There will not be many grand houses, or
men in livery, you baby ! to be found there."

Oh ! " cried Janet, growing pale with disappointment
and dismay ; " but you don't think he will have
to go there now ? "

Why not novo ? There is more reason than ever
now, it appears to me."

Oh ! " cried Janet again — that stock English monosyllable
expressing a whole gamut of dissatisfaction and

surprise. "I thought that would only be because he
thought his people would object, and didn't know what
we — I — would say. He would rather go than be
separated — rather than lose — us; it is easy to understand.
But when he's been and told, and when his
mother has come here, and when it's all in the way of
being settled — Oh ! " cried Janet again, with natural
vehemence, "what in all the world should he go
for now ? Would any one go that could help it ?
and him that has everything he can set his face to,
and sure to come into a fortune, and all made easy
for him. What in all the world should he go for
now ? "

Spears stood and looked at her with a confusion that
was almost stupidity. He was indeed stupefied by this
extraordinary speech. Was it really what it seemed
to be, a revelation of an unknown character, a new
creation altogether — or was it merely the silly babble
of a child ?

My girl," he said, with a tone of severity, yet still
keeping the half of his smile, so confused and uncertain
was he, not knowing what to think; "what is this you
are saying ? It is not like a child of mine. What if

I were to say — as I have a good right — he shall come
to Queensland or he shall not have you ? "

You would not have any right to say such a
thing," said Janet, with decision. " Don't you tellus
we've all got the right, both men and girls, todo
what is best for ourselves and to judge for ourselves
? and would you be the tyrant to take that
from us ? Oh, no, father, no ! I never would have said
a word but for this. Many a one has said to me, ' What
are you going for ? I wouldn't go a step in your place.
I'd take a situation, and stay where all my friends are.'
That's been said to me — times and times ; and I've
always said ' No. Where father goes I must go.' But,
all the same, I always hated going. For one thing, I
know I should be ill all the way. I hate a ship ; and I
hate living in the country, where you would never see
so much as a street-lamp, nor hear anything but cows
mooing, and sheep baaing ; but I would have gone and
never said a word. Only now," cried Janet, with rising
vehemence, " what would be the good of me going, or of
him going ? If I was married I shouldn't be of no use
to you; and what in all the world should take him-there,
if it wasn't following after me ? "

Her father stood and gazed at her stupefied. His
very jaw dropped with wonder. She had never made
so long a speech in her life ; but now that she had
spoken, it was all as clear, as definitely settled and
arranged, as pitiless in its reasonableness, as if, instead
of a girl of twenty, she had been a philosopher laying
down the law. All her timidity was gone. She looked
him full in the face while she ended her lengthened
argument. As for Spears, the very power of speech
seemed to be taken from him. A sound like a laugh,
harsh and jarring, came from him when she ended.

'" So that's how it is ? " he said, and turned and went
back to his bench like a man who did not know what
he was doing. Janet was glad enough to be thus
released. She who had known her own sentiments all
along was not startled by them as he was ; but she felt
that it was best now she had uttered them to let them
have time and quiet to work their necessary effect.
She turned to the eight-day clock, which had been
ticking solemnly all this time in the corner, with a half
shriek.

Good gracious ! " she cried, " it's past nine, and me
still here. Whatever will Miss Stichel say ? "

Lady Markham walked away quickly, tingling in
every nerve. She felt herself insulted and betrayed.
She had gone to this poor man as if he had been a
gentleman, with full confidence in him, and he had not
justified her faith. A poor gentleman would have felt
the impossibility, would have seen that a girl of no
importance, without money, or rank, or connections,
could not expect to marry Paul Markham, the heir of
all the family honours. A person of any cultivation
would have felt this, had there been the best blood in
England in his veins. But this clown did not feel it ;
this common workman, wood carver, tradesman, he did
not see it. He ventured to look her in the face and
tell her that they must make up their minds to it.

Lady Markham vas angry; she could not help it.
And there was an additional sting in the situation from

VOL. I. s

the fact that she felt she had brought it upon herself.
She had taken an injudicious step. In her desire to
relieve her own mind, she had compromised Paul.
Her own alarms, her suspicion and doubt, had realised
themselves. She blamed Spears all the more bitterly
that in her heart she wanted not to be obliged to blame
herself. But by and by the needle veered round to
that point of the moral compass which in a candid mind
it is so ready to stop at, self-accusation. Why did she
give this man the occasion of insulting her, and the girl
the occasion of defying her? It was her own fault.
She ought not, above all, to have compromised her son.
This became the most terrible thought of all as she
dwelt upon it. Instead of doing good she had done
harm ; instead of relieving Paul from the influence of
the demagogue, she had riveted and strengthened his
connection with the demagogue's family who were
worse, much worse than himself Was it possible that
Paul, her son, the brother of Alice, could have chosen
from all the world such a girl as Janet Spears ? Her
heart thrilled with the wonder of it, the disappointment
of it. Was that all he could find in woman ? and she
herself had helped to cement the tie between them.

How could she ever forgive herself? She walked along
quickly, recovering her outward composure, but more
and more troubled in mind as she thought upon what
she had done. Why did she go ? how, she asked
herself, being, like most women, ready to distrust herself
and give in to the common opinion on the subject
whenever anything went wrong with her — how could
she forget that it was always dangerous for a woman to
interfere ? She was in the very deepest of these painful
thoughts, angry with herself, and deeply distressed by the
apparent consequences of her ill-advised mission, when,
turning the corner of the little street which brought her
into one of the larger thoroughfares, she suddenly, without
any warning, found herself face to face with Paul.
The surprise was so great that she had no time to put on
any defences, to prepare for questions and astonishment
on his side. They met without a moment's warning, the
two people who might have been supposed least likely
to encounter each other at such a time and place.

'paul! " she cried, with a sensation of fright. And
he stopped, looked at her sternly, and cast a jealous
inquiring look along the street by which she had so
evidently comes

2

Mother ! what are you doing here ? " he said.

*'I came out — to take a walk, as it was so fine
a morning," she said, forcing a smile. Then Lady
Markham came to herself and perceived the folly of
false pretences. "No — I will not try to deceive you,
Paul. I have been visiting Mr. Spears," she said.

'* Visiting Spears ! "

Yes ; what is there wonderful in that ? — you brought
him to visit me. Other people may blame me for it, but
T don't see how you can. I had a kind of faith in him."

'you had; has it been disappointed then, mother,
your faith?"

"Yes," she said with a sigh. "No doubt it was
foolish. A man of his ' class — must feel like his class
no doubt. It was foolish on my part."

What was there," said Paul, with a sort of contempt
which he hid under exaggerated politeness, "that Lady
Markham could want with a man of his class — with a
demagogue and Radical ? "

"Paul," she said, her voice faltering a little, "it
does not become you, however wise and superior you
may feel yourself, to assume this tone to your mother.
This is to change our positions altogether. I have done

a thing which has proved ill-advised and may turn out
badly, but I did it for the best. I will not hide it from
you who are the chief person concerned. I went to ask
him to use his influence with you, my own having failed,
to induce you to think a little of your actual duties to
your family. He did not take the same view of it as I
do, which perhaps was natural; and I saw, though
without wishing it," she added, in a still more tremulous
tone, " the — young woman "

"What young woman?" His voice was angry,
almost threatening. He came a step nearer, and stood
over her with a cloud upon his face. "What young
woman is it ? whom do you mean ? "

'' It is a poor thing to make a mystery of it when it
has gone so far. I confess my mistake, and why should
you conceal your intentions on your side ? This can
only have the effect of making everything worse. I
was made to see her against my will, and to hear from
her own lips "

"Mother!" cried Paul, violently, stopping her.
Then he said, endeavouring again to calm himself, " I
have heard often that it is only women who can be
thoroughly cruel to other women."

"Then you have heard what is false, Paul, what is
entirely and cruelly false ; though you boys toss about
such accusations at your pleasure, insulting the women
who bear with you, and suffer for you. I tell you
because I feel it would have been wiser had I taken no
part in the matter; had I kept away; said nothing,
and done nothing."

And I tell you — " cried Paul, in vehement indignation
; then he stopped short and cried out with an
anxious voice, " Mother, what is it you have done ? "

"Everything that is unwise," she said. " I have been
rebuffed by your friend. I will tell you the truth, Paul.
When he said that he had no wish to have you as a
fellow emigrant, I, in my folly, asked. Was it his
daughter? And she was not so reticent as you are.
She owned that it was so. She was more frank than
you are ; and to do him justice I will allow that her
father looked as much surprised as I."

"" She owned it was so ! " Paul's face became ghastly
in the morning light. Then after a minute's blank
silence, he said, with a harsh laugh, '' Surprised ? Yes,
her father might be surprised ; but why you ? You seem
to have been the only person who knew all about it, who

had got it all cut and dry to be produced at a moment's
notice. Oh, mother!" he cried, bitterly, 'your morning's
work will cost me dear — it will cost me dear ! "

Lady Markham stood with bowed head to receive her
son's reproaches. " I was wrong," she said ; " I was
wrong. Oh, Paul, my dearest boy, come home with
me ; let us talk it all over ; let us think of everything !
If you knew how hard it is for me to oppose you ! and
all the more when your heart is engaged. Am I one to
set myself against love ? " She blushed as she looked
at him with a woman's reverence for the centre of all
affections, and a mother's shamefacedness in opening
such a subject with her son. " But, Paul, there are so
many things — oh, so many things to think of! and
you are so young — and "

"Mother, stop!" he said, "your arguments have
nothing to do with me ; they are wrong altogether. If
my life is spoiled, it will be your doing; not mine,
but yours — not mine, but yours."

Lady Markham lifted her head with the surprise and
something of the indignation of a person unjustly
accused. " This is going too far," she said. " I have
been wrong, but to throw the total blame upon me is

unreasonable. In this, as in other things, nobody-could
harm you; nobody could make your position
worse, if you had not risked and lost it yourself."

There were few passengers in the streets, silent and
semi-deserted as always in summer, and yet more
because it was still so early. The two figures which
stood there together breaking the sunshine were almost
the only people visible, and the closeness of the discussion
between them had hitherto been witnessed by
nobody ; just at this point, however, some one issued
suddenly from the gate of one of the colleges near, and
came down the steps into the street. They were scared
by the appearance of any one in this dreary city, and it
was not expedient that the warmth of their conversation
should be apparent to others.

Walk along with me," she said. '' Do not let us
stand here."

Paul looked round him for a moment on either hand.
On one side was the narrow street in which Spears
lived, the line of colleges and . better houses on the
other. Lady Markham's face was turned towards the
better side. This was enough to decide him, foolish ashe
was. He turned the other way.

What is the good of discussing — of talking over ?
All the harm is done that can be done," he said, with a
wave of his hand. Then he crossed the road quite
suddenly, leaving his mother standing looking after
him. Very miserable was the young man as he went
away. He went down Spears' street, but he had no
intention of going to see Spears. Everything seemed,
against him. The best thing for him to do, he thought,
would be to get out of sight of everybody — to fly from
the evils of fate that were gathering round his feet.
What had he done to be caught like this in a tangle
which he had not himself sought, from which indeed he
had always done his best to keep free ? It was no doing
of his : chance and his parents had done it, and the
detestable conventionalities of society, which made it
impossible for a man to be civil to a girl out of his own
class without laying himself open to remark. If he
had not met her here, yesterday, so innocently, without
premeditation ! Already, by the folly of everybody
concerned, this girl had got to be her to the young man ;
no name needed to distinguish the creature in whose
hands some blind hazard seemed to have placed his life.
Blind hazard — aided by his father and mother. How

bitter were his thoughts as he went on. What was he
to do ? She had owned to it. Half he hated her for
being so foolishly deceived, half his heart melted to her
for the deception which only some latent tenderness
could have produced. Must he wring the girl's heart
by making it all plain to her, and humble her in her
own eyes ? or must he accept a position he had not
sought, which he no more desired than they desired it,
and of which he saw all the inappropriateness, all the
disadvantages ? As he went on with that cruel question
in his mind, there rose out of the morning air, appearing
not much less suddenly than his mother had done,
running towards him, the figure of the girl of whom he
was thinking. To Paul it was as if his thoughts had
taken shape. She came towards him, not seeing him,
with all the ease of motion which unconsciousness gives
tall and graceful in her plain black gown. The girl's
head was full of a subdued triumph, but for the
moment all she was consciously thinking of was how to
get to her shop as quickly as possible. She ran like
another Atlanta, skimming along the unlovely street,
her feet scarcely seeming to touch the ground. This
sudden apparition filled Paul with excitement. She

I

had changed to him altogether since yesterday, when
she was nothing but Spears' daughter. Now she was
suddenly identified, separated from all the world, and
become herself. How could he help but be interested
in her ? She had owned to it. To what had she
owned ? It seemed for the moment almost a relief,
bitterly as he resented her introduction into his life, to
turn to her, who knew none of the complications involved,
who was unaware of his fury and indignation
against everybody round him — to turn to her, whose
mind must be entirely single and simple, torn by no
conflict. He did not know why he wanted to speak to
her, what he wanted to say to her ; but he stepped into
her way with a certain imperiousness, making her stop
short in her rapid career. Janet, thus arrested, gave a
sudden cry. She stopped, the breath coming quick on
her lips, and put her hand to her breast ; her heart
gave a sudden leap, the colour flew over her face ina
sudden wave of crimson.

*' Oh, Mr. Markham ! " she said.

Where are you going so fast ? " Somehow it
seemed to him, with a half-consolatory sense of proprietorship,
that here was a creature who belonged to

him, who would find no fault with him as the others
did, who was his. He put himself in her way, stopping
her — not as if by accident, but of set purpose — assuming
the right which she for her part never resisted.
There were troubles and difficulties with every one else ;
but with her no difficulties, no troubles. She acknowledged
his sway at once, stopped herself, blushed, and
drooped her head. There was no question of approving
or disapproving here. She answered his voice instantly,
like a slave. There are many people who only see a
thing in its best aspect when it becomes their own.
For the moment Paul Markham became one of those.
He had never thought her so handsome before ; perhaps
indeed in all her life she had never been so handsome
as when she stopped all blushing and glowing at his
call, acknowledging in her every look the proprietorship
which it gave him a sort of pleasure to claim. " Where
are you going so fast ? " he said.

Oh, Mr. Markham, I am in a great hurry ! I don't
know what Miss Stichel will say : I never was so late
before in my life ! "

What has kept you so late ? "

He was far more imperious in his tone than he had

ever been when she was nothing to him. Then he had
been courtly and polite, frightening the girl with a
courtesy which she did not understand. She liked
this roughness much better. It meant — it would be
impossible to tell all it meant.

'' I was kept by — visitors. Oh, Mr. Markham ! don't
keep me any longer now. I don't know what Miss
Stichel will say to me. She will be so angry."

'she must not be angry. How does she dare to
show her anger to you ? You had visitors. I know :
my mother."

Oh, Mr. Markham ! " Janet said again, faintly, drooping
her head ; and then there was a momentary pause.

I know," he said.

He did not know, and could not tell afterwards by
what impulse he did it. Some infatuation took
possession of him. He took her hand in the middle
of the street, in sight of any one that might be looking.
There was nobody looking, which vexed Janet, but he
did it without thought of that. It would have made
no difference if all the world had been there.

'' That is how it is, I suppose," he said, holding her
hand. And then he added, somewhat drearily, " If

there is anything wrong in it, it is their own doing,
there is always that to be said."

This somewhat chilled Janet, who expected a warmer
address ; but she reflected that the street was scarcely
a place for love-making ; and Miss Stichel, though not
so important as usual, had still to be considered.

'let me go, please, Mr. Markham," she said; "I
mustn't be late : for whatever may happen afterwards
I am still their servant at the shop."

He dropped her hand as if it burnt him, and grew
red with anger and uneasy shame.

'' This must not be," he said. '' I will go and speak
to Spears."

Though he was so firm in his democratic principles,
the idea that any one connected with himself should
be under the orders of a mistress galled him beyond
bearing. It was a thing that could not be.

It will not be for long," Janet said, cheerfully.

She, for her part, rather liked the shop. It was
more cheerful than the other shop which was home.

I cannot suffer it," he said, " for another day. I
will speak to Spears."

This was all he said, but he kept standing there

looking at her with eyes which were more investigating
than admiring. If he had nothing more to say than
this, why should he keep her standing there and expose
her to Miss Stichel's scolding ? But she did not like
to burst away as she would have done from a less
stately wooer. She was much intimidated by a lover
like Paul, though very proud of him. She stood with
her eyes cast down, waiting till he should let her go
free. The thing that would have made Janet most
happy would have been that he should walk to the
shop with her, showing that he was not ashamed of
her, and give her the pride and glory of being seen by
the other young ladies in company with the gentleman
she was going to marry, the gentleman who had vowed
that she should not remain there — not another day.
This would have been the natural thing to do, Janet
thought. But it did not seem to occur to Paul in the
same light. He looked at her, examining her appearance
with anxious and critical, yet with very sober and
calm inspection. They were neither of them so happily
fluttered, so excited as they might have been. She
was not exacting, did not ask too much ; and he was
critical with the discrimination of a superior, a judge

whose powers of judgment were biassed by no glamour
of partiality.

'ewe shall see each other later in the evening. I
will not detain you longer," he said, in a tone of gentle
politeness.

He even gave a little sigh of relief as he turned
away. Janet, not knowing whether she was more sorry
or glad to be liberated, cast more than one furtive
glance behind her at his departing figure. But it did
not seem to have occurred to Paul to look after her.
He walked on stately and straight, turning neither to
one side nor the other, towards Spears's shop. He had
not meant to go, but neither had he intended any of
the other things that had come to pass. Fate seemed
to have got possession of him. He walked into the
shop with the same straightforward steady tread, not
as usual, that was impossible. Most likely there would
have to be something said — but for that, too, he felt
himself ready, if need were.

Spears was no longer working at the simple work
of his picture-frames. He had thrown them into a
heap — all the little bits of carved work which he had
been glueing and fitting into each other — and with a

large sheet of paper on the table before him was drawing
with much intentness and preoccupation. He had
set the plume of the foxglove upright before him, and
was bending his brows and contorting both limbs and
features over his drawing as he had done over the lily
he had designed for Alice. The handful of coloured
gladiolus which had been lying on the table he had
pushed impatiently aside, and they lay at his feet, here
and there, scattered under the table and about the floor
like things rejected, while he drew in the foxglove
boldly with a blue pencil. All his soul seemed to be in
his drawing. He scarcely took any notice of Paul — a
half glance up, a hurried nod, and that was all. Presently,
however, he took up one of the gladiolus stalks
and laid it tentatively across the foxglove ; then with a
pshaw ! of angry impatience tossed it away again.

That won't do," he said, half to himself, " none o'
that. Nature will not stand it. The free-srrowinof,
wild thing is grand, but that poor stiff, conventional
rubbish, manufactured out of some gardener's brains,
out of his bad dreams, is good for nothing ; and it's
everywhere the same, so far as I can see. Things must
be wedded after their kind."

Do you mean that for me. Spears ? "

VOL. I. T

"Do I mean that for you ? Which are you ? the
grand tower of the foxglove that's good for everything
strength and continuance and beauty — or that poor
spiky trash ? I don't know. I mean nothing that I
don't understand."

Then there was silence once more. Paul took up
some of the bits of uncompleted work and fixed them
together. He would not open the subject, but he
knew Spears well enough to know that it must have
been some great agitation which had driven him away
from his pot-boiling to the work of designing. That
was not a work that would ever '' pay." The frames
answered the purpose of daily bread ; but the designs
into which all the rude artist's soul was thrown were
not profitable. A few of the young men who were his
friends had bought some plaques and panels of his
finer original work ; but such purchasers were few and
far between; and to spend a whole morning making
a design for one of these delicate unprofitable carvings
showed that the workman had certainly for the moment
lost command of himself.

After a few minutes, during which he measured the
little lathes together and fitted them carelessly, Paul
went quietly to the back of the room, and taking an old

coat which hung there put it on and sat down to do the
work ^Yhich the other had left undone. This was nota
kind of w work he had ever attempted before. He had
been a student of carving, not because of any natural
impulse towards the art, but partly for Spears's company,
partly in order to be able to aid in some small way his
struggle for a having. This eventful morning brought
him a new impulse. While his master laboured impetuously
at his drawing, Paul took the humbler work
in hand. After all the distraction that had been in his
mind, there was something in this homely effort that
soothed him. Cast upon it on all hands, in all ways,
it was a sort of relief to him to identify himself
altogether with this other sphere, which he had chosen
and sought out, yet into which he had never cast himself
so completely, so fully, as his own family had cast
him. He smiled at this within himself, as he began to
work at Spears's everyday vulgar work. Well ! if they
would have it so, so be it ! He had played with the
notion of equality, of democratic simplicity, with the
doctrine that it was every man's duty to earn his own
living, and give uj^ to humanity the full enjoyment of
the land and accumulations of moneys, which no individual
had a rif^ht to retain. All this he had held

hotly in theory ; but in the meantime had lived in his
college rooms, and according to his natural position —
an anomaly which only now appeared to him in its full
vividness. Yes, now he saw it. He smiled to himself,
no longer with bitterness, with a lofty disdain of his
own past, of all his traditions, of his family, which byway
of opposition and resistance to his purpose and
principles had pushed him over the verge on which he
had been hesitating. Perhaps but for them he might
still have hesitated before he took the final step. It
was they who had decided it, who had given him the
last impulse. He smiled with a sense of the weakness
of efforts which thus naturally balked themselves,
feeling superior in his calm certainty of decision to all
these agitations. Yes, it was over; there was no
longer any question of what might or might not be.
His fate was settled ; he was a number of Spears' s
family, not of Sir William Markham's. That sense of
calm which follows a great decision, and at the same time
of proud resignation which succeeds a sacrifice exacted,
calmed his mind. Somehow, Paul could not have told
how, he felt himself a sort of sacrificial offering to
justice and nature, making the most eloquent of protests
against wrong, tyranny, injustice, and everything

that was evil in society. With the dignity of a noble
victim, and with a consciousness of innate, inborn, but
most illogical superiority to fate, he drew the glue-pot
and the tools towards him, and began to do the workman's
work. Nothing could have been more illogical ;
for the superiority of labour was one of the first principles
of his creed, and to make pictures-frames was a respectable
occupation by which a man might live. Yet it was
with a smile of unspeakable superiority that he began his
first day's real work, enjoying the sensation of voluntary-humility,
of doing what it was beneath him to do.

Thus they went on in silence for some time : Paul
working clumsily enough, with a sense of the humour
implied in his adoption of the trade, which made it
amusing in its novelty and inappropriateness, but which
was most unlike the steady devotion of a man who felt
this work to he his duty; while Spears pursued his
with a fury of invention which denoted the perturbation
of his mind. He flung the drooping bells of the
foxglove upon his paper and erected its splendid stalk
with an energy and force which was like a defiance,
holding the somewhat coarse blue pencil in his hand
like a sword, screwing his mouth and putting his limbs
into every contortion possible, as he sat, with his stool

pushed as far as might be from the table, and all the
upper part of his person overhanging it. If it had
been an made or a lion he was drawings the force and
expression of his whole figure would have been more
appropriate. As it was, the foxglove bristled with a
kind of scornful defiance, yet drooped with something
of melancholy, as an eagle might have done in all its
pride of strength, yet with the pathos of all speechless
creatures in its eyes. In this particular, though he was
an actor, he was speechless as the eagle or the wildly
noble flower. He had seen a sight which had taken all
speech out of him, as it might have done from Shakespeare.
He had seen a something unknown, a small,
vulgar, incomprehensible spirit, to him unrecognisable,
a thing out of his cognisance, looking at him through
the eyes of his child. What could he say to such a
revelation ? Nothing. It took his voice from him and
almost his breath. He had not been able to endure
the placid work which left him free for thought. Say
that his designing did not reach a very ethereal point
of art ; but it was the highest exercise of skill to him.
He flung himself upon the paper, thrusting away all
the painful enlightenment and contradictions of his
life as he thrust away the gay-coloured spike of the

Salacious. He would have crushed them under foot
if he had been able, but this he could not do. They
would not disappear from his memory as the others did
from his table. Thus he worked on, with a fervour
which was almost savage, while Paul, with a proud
smile on his face, handled the glue-pot. After a while
the mere sense of companionship mollified the elder
man. He was wounded, and wanted just such soothing
as the sight of his disciple sitting quietly by gave him.
His work grew less firm, his hand less rigid ; the great
pencil ceased to dig into the paper with its violent
lines. Insensibly the softening went on. First, he
threw a hasty glance from beneath his bushy eyebrows
at the young man tranquilly seated near him. Then
his fiery inspiration slackened ; he paused to look at
his model, to devise the next line, and doing so let .his
eyes rest upon Paul with a growing softness. At last
he got up, threw down his pencil, and coming up to
his companion struck him on the shoulder.

** Well ! " he said. '' Boy ! So that was how it
was. You listened to the father — old fool ! but your
thoughts were with the girl. That was how it was."
This was not the thing that gnawed at Spears's heart,
but he put it forward by way perhaps of persuading

himself, as we all do sometimes, that it was the lesser
matter that hurt him most.

Paul paused in his work, and looked up. His face
was very serious, with none of that glow of happiness
in it which belongs to an accepted lover — as the man
beside him, who had been a true lover himself, was
quick to see.

Who said that ? Not I, Spears— not I."

'who said it? Well, I cannot tell you. The
women among them ; they have their own way of
looking at things*'

And then the two men paused, looking at each other.
This was the moment in which it was natural that Janet's
lover should make his own explanation to the father of
the girl whom he loved. The whole life of two people
at least, and of many more in a secondary point of view,
hung upon Paul's lips, to be decided by the next impulse
that might move him, by the next fantastic words which,
out of the mist of unreal fact in which he had got
himself enveloped, he might be moved to say.

END OF VOL. I.

'7

LONDON : R. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS.



la

^•x-s

m^M

S%,^s

^f

m^^

^•s^^m

,//j:'^%,,

f^:r>

m^^"

!•• /f

y-m:

%m

yA

m%

J^^

«/.'

^Av>

fc^f*

'•^■'

'^r.

OF THL

University

Of ILLINOIS

OfShet

in 2009 with funding from
diversity of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

www.archive.org/details/hethatwillnotwhe02oli

BY

MRS. OLIPHANT

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME II.

MACMILLAN AND CO.



Thu Right of Translation and Reproduction is Reserved

R. Clay, Sons, and Taylor,

BREAD STREET HILL.

Chapter II.

CONTENTS,

PAGE

Chapter 1 1

Chapter III 50

Chapter IV 66

Chapter V 87

Chapter VI 98

Chapter VII 117

Chapter VIII 129

PACK

Chapter IX. . . " 145

Chapter X. 165 i

Chapter XI. . 186

Chapter XII , . 202

Chapter XIII 222

Chapter XIV 245

Chapter XV 262

WHEN HE MAY |

CHAPTER I.

At Markham Chase there had been great wonder and
consternation at the sudden departure of the elders of
the family. Bell had been called to her mother's
room in the morning, and the morals of the house,
so to speak, placed in her hands. She was thirteen, a
great age, quite a woman. " Harry will help you :
but he is careless, and he is always out. You will
promise to be very careful and look after everything,"
Lady Markham had said. Bell, growing pale with the
solemnity of this strange commission, gave her promise
with paling cheek, and a great light of excitement
in her eyes; and when they heard of it, the

VOL. II. B

others were almost equally impressed. 'there is
something the matter with Paul," Bell said ; and when
the carriage drove away the solemnity of the great
house all to themselves made a still greater impression
upon them. It is true that Mrs. Fry showed signs
of thinking that she was the virtual head of the
establishment, and Brown did not pay that deference
to Bell's orders which she expected as mamma's deputy
to receive ; but still they all acknowledged the responsibility
that lay upon them to conduct themselves
better than girls and boys had ever conducted themselves
before. The girls naturally felt this the most.
They would not go out with their brothers, but stayed
indoors and occupied themselves with various rather
grimy pieces of needlework begun on various occasions
of penitence or bad weather. To complete them felt
like a proper exercise for such an occasion ; and Bell
caused the door to be shut and all the windows in front
of the house. She and Marie established themselves
in their mother's special sanctuary — the west room ;
where after a while the work languished, and where
the elder sister, with a sense of seniority and protection,
pointed out all the pictures to Marie, and gave her

their names. " That is me, when I was a baby' said
Bell, "just below the Kail."

The Raffle," said Marie. " I thought a raffle was
a thing where you drew lots."

'' So it is," said the elder with dignity, '•' but it is a
man's name, too. It is pronounced a little different,
and he was a very fine painter. You know," said the
little instructress with great seriousness, '' what the
subject is — the beautiful lady and the little boy ? "

I know what they all are quite well," said Marie,
impatient of so much superiority ; '' I have seen them
just as often as you have. Mamma has told me
hundreds of times. That's me too as well as you,
underneath the big picture, and there's Alice, and
that's papa — as if I didn't know ! "

'' How can you help knowing Alice and papa ; anyone
can do that," said Bell ; '' but you don't know the
landscapes. That one is painted by two people, and it
is called Both. At least, I suppose they both did a
bit, as mamma does sometimes with Alice. There is
some one ringing the bell at the hall door ! Somebody
must be coming to call. Will Brown say 'My
lady is not at home,' or will he say ' The young ladies

B 2

are at home as he does when Alice is here ? Oh,
there it is again ! Can anything have happened ?
Either it is somebody who is in a great hurry, or it
is a telegram, or, Marie, quick, run to the schoolroom
and there we can see."

As they neared the hall they ran across Brown, who
was advancing in a leisurely manner to open the door.
'' Young ladies," said Brown, " you should not scuttle
about like that, frightening people. And I wonder
who it was that shut the hall door."

Bell made no reply, but ran out of the way, and
they reached the schoolroom window in time to see
what was going to happen. At the door stood someone
waiting. " A little gentleman " in light-coloured
clothes, with a large white umbrella. There was no
carriage, which was one reason why Brown had taken
his time in answering the bell. He would not, a
person of his importance, have condescended to open
the door at all but for a curiosity which had taken
possession of him, a certainty in his mind that something
of more than ordinary importance was going on
in the family. The little gentleman who had rung the
bell had walked up the avenue slowly, and had looked

about liii much. He had the air of being very much
interested in the place. At every opening in the trees
he had paused to look, and when he came to the open
space in front of the house, had stood still fur sometime
with a glass in his eye examining it. He was
very brown of hue, very spare and slim, exceedingly
neat and carefully dressed, though in clothes that where
not quite like English clothes. They fitted him
loosely, and they were of lighter material than gentlemen
usually wear in England; but yet he was very
well dressed. He had neat small feet, most carefully
chasse ; and he had carried his large white umbrella,
lined with green, over his head as he approached the
door. When Brown threw the great door open, he was
startled to see this trim figure so near to him upon the
highest step. He had put down his white umbrella,
and he stood with a small carcase between his finger
and thumb, as ready at once to proclaim himself who
he was.

'' Sir William Markham ? " he asked. The little
carcase had been opened, and the white edge of the
card was visible in his hand.

'' !Not at home, sir," said Brown.

*' All ! that's your English way. I am not a novice,
though you may think so," said the little gentleman.
Take in this card and you will see that he will be at
home for me."

Beg your pardon, sir," said Brown. Though he
had no objection to saying 'not at home" when
occasion demanded, he felt offended by being supposed
to have done so falsely when his statement was true.
Master is not a gentleman that has himself denied
when he is here. Alien I say not at home, I mean it.
Sir William left Markham to-day."

Left to-day ! — that is very unlucky," said the
stranger. He stood quite disconcerted for the moment,
and gnawed the ends of his moustache, still with the
card half extended between his finger and thumb.
You are sure now," he added in a conciliatory tone,
that it is not by way of getting rid of intruders ? I
am no intruder. I am — a relation."

Very sorry, sir," said Brown ; " if you were one of
the family — if you were Mr. Markham himself, I
couldn't say no different. Sir William, and my lady,
and Miss Alice, they went to Oxford this morning by
the early train."

Mr. Markham himself — who is Mr. Markham ? "
he said, with a peculiar smile hovering about his
mouth. " I am — a relation ; but I have never been in
England before, and I don't know much about the
family. Is Mr. Markham a son, or brother — perhaps
brother to Sir William ? "

'the eldest son and heir, sir," said Brown, with
dignity. "You'll see it in the Baronetage of England
all about him, ' Paul Reginald, born May 6, 18 — .' He
came of age this year."

The brown face of the stranger was full of varying
expression while this was said — surprise, a half amusement,
mingled with anger ; emotions much too personal
to be consistent with his ignorance of the family history.
Strange, when he did not know anything about it, that
he should be so much interested ! Brown eyed him
very keenly, with natural suspicion, though he did
not know what it was he suspected. The little
gentleman had closed his card-case, but still held it
in his hand."

So," he said, "the heir; then perhaps he is at home ?"

There is nobody at home but the young ladies and
the young gentlemen," said Brown, testily. " If any of

the grown-up ones had been in the house or about the
place, I'd have said so'*

Brown felt himself the master when the heads of the
family were away, and this sort of persistency did not
please him.

I'd like to see the young ladies and gentlemen,"
said the stranger. I'd like to see the house. You
seem unwilling to let me in ; but I am equally unwilling
to come such a long distance and then go away "

Well, sir," said Brown, embarrassed, " Markham
Chase, though it's one of the finest places in the county,
is not a show place. I don't say but what the gardener
would take a visitor round the gardens, and by the
fish-pond, and that, when the family are away ; but it
has never been made a practice to show the house.
And it cannot even be said at present that the family
are away. They've gone on some business as far as
Oxford. They might be back, Sir William told me, in
two days. "

My man ! " said the stranger, " I can promise you
your . master will give you a good wigging when he
hears that you have sent me away."

''A good— what, sir?"

Brown o-rew red with indication ; but all the same a
chill little doubt stole over him. This personage, who
was so very sure of his welcome, might after all turnout
to be a person whom he had no right to send away.

"I said a wagging, my good man. Perhaps you
don't understand that in England. We do in our place.
Come," he said, drawing out the card, and with it a
very palpable sovereign, "here's my name. You can
see I'm no impostor. You had better let me see the
house."

The card was a very highly glazed foreign-looking
piece of pasteboard, and upon it was the name of Mr.
Augustus Markham Gaveston, at full length, in old
English characters. And now that Brown looked at
him again, he seemed to see a certain likeness to Sir
William in this pertinacious visitor. He was about the
same height, his eyes were the same colour, and there
was something in the sound of his voice — Brown
thought on the whole it would be best to pocket the
indignity and the sovereign, and let the stranger have
his way.

''I beg your pardon, sir," he said; 'sir William
didn't say nothing to me about expecting a relation.

and I'm not one that likes to take liberties in the
absence of the family ; but if so be as your mind is
set upon it, I think I may take it upon me to let
you see the house."

I thought we should understand each other, sooner
or later," said the stranger, with a smile. "Sir
William could not tell you, for he did not know I was
coming," he said, a moment afterwards, with a short
laugh. "I've come from — a long way off, where
people are not — much in the way of writing letters.
Besides, it is so long since he's seen me, I dare say
he has forgotten me : but the first glance at my card
will bring it all back."

I don't doubt it, sir," said Brown. He had taken
the sovereign, though not without doubts and compunctions,
and now he felt himself half unwillingly
bound to the service of this unknown personage. He
admitted him into the hall with a momentary pang.
The house was built by the great-grandfather of the
present baronet," he said. " This hall is considered a
great feature. The pillars were brought from Sicily ;
they're no imitation, like what you see in many places,
but real marble. On the right is the dining-room, and

on the left the drawing-room. There is a face gallery
which is only used for balls and so forth "

Ah — we'll take them in turn," said the little
gentleman. He put down his big white umbrella, and
shook himself free of several particles of dust which he
perceived on his light coat. "I'll rest here a moment,
thank you," he said, seating himself in the same bi
chair in which Colonel Lenny had fallen asleep. " This
reminds me of where I've come from. I dare say Sir
William brought it over. ^ov\- fetch me some iced
water or seltzer, or cold punch if you've got such a
thing. Before I start sight-seeing, I'd Eke a Kettle rest."

Brown stared with open mouth ; his very voice died
away in the blank wonder that filled him.

Cold — punch ! " he said.

The stranger laughed.

Don't look so much like a boiled goose. I don't
suppose you have cold punch. Get me some seltzer, as
I say, or iced water. I don't suppose a man who has
been anywhere where there's a sun can do without one
of them. Oh, yes, there's a little sun in England
now and then. Something to drink ! " he added, in
peremptory tones.

Brown, though he felt the monstrous folly of this
order from a man who had never set foot in the house
before, felt himself moving instinctively and very
promptly to obey. It was the strangest thing in the
world, but he did it, leaving the stranger enthroned
in the great chair of Indian bamboo.

Mr. Augustus Markham Gaveston, however, had
no inclination to sleep. He sat sunk in the chair,
rubbing his hands, looking about him with his little
keen blue eyes.

So this is Markham Chase," he said to himself.
His eyes shone with a mischievous eager light. There
was a little triumph in them and some amusement.
Though he was far from being a boy, a sort of boyish
gleam of malicious pleasure was in his face, as if he
had done something which it had not been intended or
desired that he should do, and thus had stolen a march
upon some one in authority. He pulled off his gloves ina
leisurely way, finger by finger, and threw them into
his hat, which he had placed at his feet. Then he
rubbed his hands again, as if ready for anything or
everything.

The dining-room to the right, the drawing-room to

the left, and a fine gallery — for balls and that sort of
thing," he repeated, half under his breath.

The little girls had watched anxiously from the
schoolroom window as long as there was anything to
see. They had seen the little gentleman come in,
which filled them with excitement. It was not a
telegram, so there was nothing to be afraid of Their
hearts jumped with excitement and wonder. Who
could it be ?

"I ought to go and see what he wants," said
Belli " Mamma left the charge of the house
to me."

'' Oh, Bell — a strange gentleman ! you would not
know what to say to him, though it is only a little
gentleman," said Marie.

Oh yes, I know quite well. I shall ask him if he
wants papa, and that I am so sorry there is no one at
home — and could I tell papa any message ? that is
what Dolly Stainforth says."

She is seventeen," said Marie ; "and you — you are
only so little — he will laugh at you. Bell, don't go.
Oh, I don't like to go "

He is little, too," said Bell. '' You can stay away if

you please, but I am going to see what it all means.
Mamma left the charge to me."

Marie followed, shy, but curious.

''Oh, I wish the boys were here," she said.

'' The boys ! " cried Bell, with much contempt.
Who would pay any attention to them ? But you
need not come unless you like. Mamma left the
charge to me."

Whether to be left alone, or to be dras^ored to the
encounter to speak to a strange gentleman, Marie did
not know which was worst. It was the first, however,
which was most contrary to all her traditions. She
scarcely remembered that such a thing had ever
happened. . So she followed, though ill at ease, holding
a corner of Bell's frock between her fingers. As for
Bell, she had the courage of a lion. She walked quite
boldly through all the passages, and never felt the
slightest inclination to run away, till she suddenly
caught a glimpse of two neat little feet, protruding
from two lines of light trousers, on the other side of
the hall. Then she gave a start and a little cry, and
clutched at Marie behind her, who was more frightened
than she.

They stopped within the door, in a sudden och of
fright. Nothing was visible but the grey trousers, the
little feet in light cloth boots, and two hands rubbing
each other ; all the rest of the stranger's person being
sunk in the big chair.

When he heard this exclamation, he roused himself,
and turned a wide awake head in their direction.

*' Ah ! the young ladies ! " he said. " How are you,
my little dears ? It is you I most want to see." And
he held out to them the hands which had been seen
rubbing themselves together so complacently a moment
before.

"We are the Misses Markham. We are never spoken
to like that," said Bell. Then she collected all her
courage for the sake of her duty, '' I am the eldest,"
she said. " Papa and mamma are gone away, if you
wanted to see them ; but if you have anv message
you wish to leave "

'come here," he said. "I don't wish to leave
any message. Don't be frightened. I want to
make friends with you. Come here and talk to me.
I am not a stranger. I am a — sort of a relation
of yours."

''A relation!" said Bell. And as Brown's solemn
step was heard advancing at this moment, the little
girls advanced too. Brown carried a tray with a long
glass upon it, a fat little bottle of seltzer water, and a
large jug of claret-cup. Colonel Lenny had been very
thirsty too when he fell asleep in that same chair, but
he had not been served in this way. The little girls
came forward, gravely interested, and watched with
serious eyes while the little gentleman drank. He
nodded at them before he lifted the glass to his lips
with a comical air.

My name is Markham as well as yours," he said.
I've come a long way to make your acquaintance.
This respectable person here — what do you call him,
Brown? — wanted to send me away; but I hope now
that you have come you will extend your protection tome,
and not allow him to turn me away."

Are you a cousin ? " said Bell.

"Well — perhaps not exactly a cousin; and yet
something of that sort."

Are you one of the Underwood Markhams ? " the
little girl continued. " The people that nurse says would
get Markham if we were all to die ? "

"They must be very disagreeable people, I think'
said the stranger, with a smile.

Oh, dreadful I They never come here. Nurse
says they were in such a way when we were all born.
They thought papa was going to let them have it— as if
it were not much more natural that Paul should have
it ! You are not one of those people, are you, Mr. —
Markham ? Is that really your name ? "

I am not one of those people, and my name is Gus.
What is yours ? I want to know what to call you, and
your little sister. And don't you think you had better
take me to see the house ? "

Oh," cried Bell, looking more serious than ever ;
"but we could not call a gentleman, quite an old
gentleman, like you, Gus."

Do you think I am an old gentleman ? " he said.

'' Well, not perhaps such a very old gentleman," said
Bell, hesitating.

Marie, trusting herself to speak for the first time,
said in a half-whisper —

Oh, no — not very old ; just about the same
as papa."

The stranger burst into a laugh. This seemed to

VOL. IL C

amuse him more than the humour of the speech
justified.

There is a difference," he said ; " a slight difference.
I am not so old as — papa."

*' Do you know papa ? Do you know any of them ?
You must have met them," said Bell, "if you are in
society. Alice came out this year, and they went
everywhere, and saw everybody, in society. Mamma
told me so. Alice is the eldest," the little girl went on,
pleased to enter into the fullest explanations as soon
as she had got started. " That is, not the eldest of all,
you know, but the eldest of the girls. She was at all
the balls, and even went out to dinner ! but then it is
no wonder, she is eighteen, and quite as tall as
mamma."

Is she pretty ? " said the gentleman.

He went on drinking glass after glass of the claret-cup,
while Brown stood looking on alarmed, yet respectful.
(" Such a little fellow as that, I thought he'd bust
himself," Brown said.)

She is not so pretty as mamma," said the little girl.
Everybody says mamma is beautiful. I am the one
that is most like her," continued Bell, with naive

satisfaction. " There is a picture of lier in the drawing-room
; you can come and see."

'' Miss Isabel," cried Brown, taking her aside. There
was something important even in the fact of being taken
aside to be expostulated with by Brown. "We don't
know nothing about the gentleman, miss," said Brown.
I don't doubt that it is all right — still he oughtn't
be what he appears to be ; and as it is me that is
responsible to Sir William "

'you need not trouble yourself about that,
Brown," said Bell, promptly. " Mamma said I was
to have the charge of everything. I shall take
him in and show him the pictures and things. I
will tell papa that it was me. But Brown," she
added in an undertone, certain doubts coming over
her, " don't go away ; come with us all the same.
Marie might be frightened : I should like you to
come all the same."

Meantime the stranger had turned to Marie.

Where do you come in the family ? " he said. " Are
there any younger than you ? "

"No," said Marie, hanging her head. She was the
shy one of the family. She gave little glances at him

c 2

sidelong, from under her eyelids; but edged a little
further off when he spoke.

'' Are you afraid ? Do you think I would do you any
harm ? " said the little gentleman. 'rit is quite the
other way. Do you know I have brought some sweetmeats
over the sea, I can't tell you how far, expressly
for you."

'' For me ! " Marie was fairly roused out of her apathy.
"But you didn't know even our names till you came
here."

Ah ! there's no telling how much I knew," said the
stranger with a smile.

He had risen up, and he was not very formidable.
Though he was not handsome, the smile on his face
made it quite pleasant. And to have sweetmeats
brought, as he said, all that way, expressly for you, was
a very ingratiating circumstance. Marie tried to whisper
this wonderful piece of information to Bell when her
interview with Brown was over. But Bell had returned
to all her dignity of (temporary) head of the house.

If you will follow me," she said, trying to look, her
sister said afterwards, as if she were in long dresses, and
putting on an air of portentous importance, "we will

take you to see the house. Brown, you can come \Yith
us and open the doors."

The visitor laughed. He was very little taller than
Bell, as she swept on with dignity at the head of the
procession. Bro^vn, not quite satisfied to have his role
taken out of his hands, yet unwilling to leave the
children in unknown company, and a little curious
himself, and desirous to see what was going on, followed
with some perturbation. And there never was a housekeeper
more grandiose in description than Bell proved
herself, or more eloquently confused in her dates and
details. They went over all the house, even into the
bedrooms, for the stranger's curiosity was inexhaustible.
He learned all sorts of particulars about the family,
lingering over every picture and every chamber. When
the boys came in, calling loudly for their sisters, he put
his glass in his eye and examined them, as they rushed
up the great staircase, where a whispered but quite
audible, consultation took place.

I say, we want our dinner," cried Harry. " We're
after a wasps' nest down in the Brentwood Hollow, and
if you don't make haste, you'll lose all the fun."

Oh, a wasps' nest ! " cried Bell ; '' but we can't — we

can't : for here is a gentleman who says he is a relation,
and we're showing him over the house."

"Such a funny little gentleman," said Marie, 'rand
he says he's got some sweetmeats (what does one mean
by sweetmeats ? ) for me**

*'I don't care for your gentleman; I want my
dinner," cried Harry, whose boots were all over mud
from the Brentwood swamp. They both brought in a
whiff of fresh air like a fresh breeze into the stately
house.

"Miss Isabel," said Brown, coming forward, and
speaking in a stage whisper, while the stranger, with his
glass in his eye, calmly contemplated all these communing
from above, '*if the gentleman is really a
relation, I don't think my lady would mind if you
asked him to stay lunch'*

To stay lunch ! This took away the children's breath.

*' It is a bore to have a man when he doesn't belong
to you," said Roland.

"He looks a queer little beggar," said Harry. "I
don't think I like the looks of him'*

But he is quite nice," said the little girls in a breath.

Then Bell suddenly gave a lamentable cry —

Oh, you boys, it is no use even thinking of the wasps'
nest. We have all got to go to the rectory to the
school-feast."

This calamity put the little gentleman out of their
heads. The boys resisted wildly, but the girls began to
think better of it, arguing that it was a party, though
only a parish party. The introduction of this subject
delayed the decision of the question about lunch, until
at last a violent appeal from Harry —

I say. Brown ! cant we have our dinner ? " brought
about a crisis.

"You go and ask him to come, Harry," said Bell,
seized with an access of shyness, and pushing her
brother forward. " You are the biggest."

"Ask him yourself," cried the boy. This difficult
question however was solved by the little gentleman
himself, who came forward, still with his glass in his
eye.

My dear children," he said, " don't give yourselves
any trouble. I am very hungry, and when Mr. Brown
is so kind as to give you your dinner, I will share it
with great pleasure." ( " Cheeky little brute — I don't
like the looks of him," said Harry to Roland. " But it

was plucky of him all the same," said Roland to Harry.)
Allow me to offer Miss Markham my arm," the stranger
added.

To see Bell colour up, look round at them all in alarm,
then put on a grand air, and accept the little gentleman's
arm, was, all the children thought, as good as a play.
They followed in convulsions of suppressed laughter, the
boys pretending to escort each other, while Marie did
her best to subdue them. " Oh, boys, boys ! when you
know mamma says we are never to laugh at people,"
cried this small authority. But the meal thus prepared
for was very successful, and the young Markhams
speedily became quite intimate with their visitor. He
told them he was going to stay in the village, and
Harry and Roland immediately made him free of the
woods. And he asked them a thousand questions
about everybody and everything, from their father and
mother, to the school-feast where they were going ; but
except the fact that he was staying in the village, he
gave them no information about himself. This Brown
noted keenly, who, though not disposed to trouble himself
usually with a school-room dinner, condescended
to conduct the service on this occasion, keeping both

ears and eyes in very lively exercise. Brown felt sure,
with the instinct of an old servant, that something was
about to happen in the family, and he would not lose
an opportunity of making his observations. The
stranger remained until the children had got ready for
their engagement, and walked with them to the
village, still asking questions about everything. They
had fallen quite easily into calKng him Mr. Gus.

"For I am Markham as well as you," he said;
*' there would be no distinction in that ; " which was
another source of anxiety and alarm to Brown, who
knew that on the visitor's card there was another name.

** Good-bye, Mr. Gus, good-bye ! " the children cried
at the rectory-gate. The village inn was further on,
and Mr. Gus lingered with perfectly open and unaffected
curiosity to look at the fine people who were
getting out of their carriages at the gate.

We will tell papa your message," said Bell, turning
round for a last word ; " and remember you are to
come again when they come home."

Never fear ; you will see plenty of me before all is
done," he said ; and so went on into the village,
waving his hand to them, with his big white umbrella

over his head. All the girls and boys who were going to
the school-feast, stopped to look at him with wondering
eyes. He was very unlike the ordinary Englishman
as seen in Markhams Royal. But the little Markhams
themselves had now no doubt that he was a relation,
for his walk, they all agreed, was exactly like papa's.

The rectory at Markham Royal was a pretty house,
situated on a little elevation, with pretty lawns and
gardens, and a paddock at the foot of the little height,
open to the lawn, where there was a tent erected, and
plenty of space for the games. Spectators of the
higher class constituted quite another little party in
the pretty slope of the gardens, where they were
walking about in bright-coloured groups, and paying
their various greetings to the rector and his daughter
when the little Markhams arrived. Their appearance
was a great disappointment to the company in general,
and especially to Dolly Stainforth, who was the hostess
and the soul of everything that was going on. The
rector himself was old, and not able to take much
trouble. He had a large family of sons and daughters,

who were all married and out in the world, with the
exception of the youngest of all, Dolly, who was a little
younger than Alice Markham, and a model of everything
that a clergyman's daughter ought to be. Frank,
the youngest son, a young barrister, who still called the
rectory home, and was generally present on all important
occasions, was the only other member of the
family in whom Markham Royal took any very great
interest; and he was absent to-day, to the great
annoyance of his sister, who all the afternoon had been
looking out, shading her eyes, directly in the line of
the sun, which made the highroad one white and blazing
line — looking for the carriage from the Chase, which
might, Dolly hoped, bring her the only compensation
possible for her brother's absence. Alice was an
unfailing aid in all such emergencies, and Lady
Markham's gracious presence made everything go well
among the great people on the lawn. Also, this time
at least, there was another possibility that made Dolly's
heart beat. It had been whispered among the girls for
some time past that the birthday of Alice being near,
and Paul almost certain to come home for that family
festivity, he might, in all likelihood, be calculated upon

for the rectory too ; in which case Alice and he would
remain for supper afterwards, and the day would be a
white day. Not many entertainments of a lively
description came in Dolly's way. She had to drive out
solemnly with her father now and then, and attend
garden parties which were not always very amusing,
but this day had been marked out as an exception to
all others. After the school-feast, which was the
laborious part of it, and in which she was to be helped
by the people she admired and loved most in the world,
there was to be the much more exquisite pleasure of
the domestic party after, talks, and songs, and strolls in
the moonlight, and a whole little romance of happiness.
Frank and Alice, whom it would be almost delight
enough to pair together, to see " taking to each other,"
and Paul — Perhaps it was part of Dolly's training as, ina
way, mother of the parish, that she should make her
little plans with extreme regularity and perfection of all
the details. This anticipation had given her strength
for all the preparations of the school-feast. There was
no curate to take any share of the responsibility;
everything came upon her own small shoulders, young
and delicate as they were. But what of that ! With

such aid and such a recompense, Dolly did not care
what trouble she took. It was her duty in any case,
but duty became a kind of Paradise when pursued in
company with Frank and Alice and Paul. Alas ! the
morning's post had brought a letter from Frank
announcing his inability to appear. Was it for a
serious cause which his sister could accept ? Alas, no !
only for a cricket match, which he preferred — certainly
preferred — to the rectory lawn and Alice Markham.
Frank was false, but the others must prove true.
When did any one ever know the Markham s to fail ?
When the four children appeared, Dolly detached
herself from Lady Westland, whom with a much
disturbed attention she had been entertaining :

Why are they so late ? " she cried.

Oh, Dolly," said Bell, half pleased to be of so much
importance, half sorry to convey bad news; "they are
not coming at all ! They have gone off to Oxford,
papa, mamma, and Alice ; there is something the
matter with Paul."

Poor little Dolly never could tell how she bore this
blow. Suddenly the whole scene became dim before
her, swimming in two big tears which flooded her eyes.

She had indeed said to herself that she would not " build
upon " the coming of Paul ; but Alice at least she had
a right to build upon.

My dear child, what is the matter ? " cried Lady
Westland, whose eyes were as keen as needles.

Dolly, though she was still blind with the sudden
moisture, recovered her wits more quickly than she
recovered her eyesight.

"I think I shall cry," she said. "I can't help it.
Alice is not coming ; and Alice was all my hope. There
is no one such a help as she is. I don't know what I
shall do without her."

It was a kind of comfort to Dolly to think that Ada
Westland would be wounded by an estimate which
showed how Httle her services were thought of; and
this, perhaps, though not at all a right feeling for a good
little clergyman, helped her to recover herself, as it
was so necessary she should do.

The children were assembling in the paddock, all in
their best clothes, with the schoolmistress and the
Sunday-school teachers, and a few favoured villagers.
There was the tea to make for them, the games to
organise, to keep everything going ; and all the garden

walks were occupied by idle people who were doing nothing
to help, and from whom no help could be expected.
Her old maid, who had been her nurse, and who was
Dolly's chief support in the household, and old George
the old man-servant, who managed the male department
at the rectory, were both required to hand tea, and attend
upon these fine people, who did all they could to
detain Dolly herself, stopping her as she hurried down
to the field of action, to tell her that it was a pretty
scene. Dolly was far too good a girl, and too thoroughly
trained to the duties of her position to dwell at that moment
upon her disappointment. But whenever she
paused for a moment, whenever the din of the voices
and teacups experienced a lull, it came back to her.
Poor little Dolly ! She had everything on her shoulders.
There was a line of chairs arranged under the lime-trees
on the lawn for the great people of the parish —
the Trevorss and the Westlands — apart from the crowd
of smaller people who came and went. Among these
few local magnates the rector meandered, and it was to
them that old George's services were specially dedicated.
They had the best of the tea, which Dolly grudged
greatly, and the best position, and the best attendance ;

and considered themselves to be doing a duty which
they owed to the parish in thus countenancing the school-feast.
They considered that they were doing their duty ;
but at the same time, in the absence of anything better,
they liked it as Bell and Marie did, because, such as it
was, it was a party, though only a school-feast. Old
Admiral Trevor was seated in the sunniest spot — for
warmth, as his daughters explained, was everything to
him. He sat there, cooking in the heat of the August
afternoon with poor Miss Trevor close by, divided between
the necessity of being close to him and the love
of the grateful shade behind. The old admiral talked
a great deal, mumbling between his toothless gums with
the greatest energy, and very indignant when he was
asked a second time what he had said. Miss Trevor,
though she was deaf and used an ear trumpet, always
heard her father, and was very quick and clever in
interpreting him, so as to save what she called " unpleasantness."
Beside the Trevorss were the Westlands —
the whole four of them — father, mother, son, and
daughter. They were new people, and therefore deeply
impressed with the necessity of "countenancing" the
parish in which they had bought a house and park,
VOL. II. D

and which they tried to patronise as if it belonged to
them. They were very rising people, very rich, and
fond of finding themselves in good company, even at a
school feast ; for naturally such people get on much
better in town, where there are all sorts of visitors, than
in the country where everybody knows all about their
pedigree and belongings. Dolly's only real help was
Miss Matilda Trevor, the second daughter of the admiral,
a plain, good woman, but so shortsighted that she had
to put her nose into everything before she could see it.
Some of the smaller lights of Markham, Mrs. Booth,
and her niece, from Rosebank, and young Mrs. Roster,
the doctor's wife, might have been of a little use ; but
their heads were turned by the offer the rector inadvertently
made of the chairs reserved for the Markhams
on the lawn. When they had such a chance of distinction,
of making their " position " quite apparent, and
showing their equality with the county people, who
could wonder that these ladies threw over the children,
and Dolly, though not without many compunctions?
Poor ladies ! they did not make very much of it ; they
talked to each other which they could do any day, and
now and then got a word from Miss Trevor, who poked

out her trumpet for the answer, frightening Mrs.
Rossiter out of her wits.

This, however, accomplished Dolly's discomfiture,
leaving her altogether to herself. It was a pretty
scene, as everybody said. The people who were walking
about the garden dropped off as the afternoon went
on, but the great people sat it out ; though they paused
to say it was a pretty scene, they were busy with their
own talk, and had nothing else to do that was of
any importance. The admiral had got into an argument
with Lord Westland about the new ironclads — if
argument that could be called which consisted of vitu-

o

operation on the part of the old sailor and amiable
remonstrances from the new lord.

Ships," the bigoted old seaman cried, the foam
flying from his hips, " I doncalFem ships." He ran his
words into each other, which made him very difficult to
understand. '' Shrinking old tin-kettles, old potsh-
anpans, that's what I call 'em. Set a seaman 
shrike puttin'emdownamine. I don' callit afloat."

'* My dear sir," said Lord Westland, blandly, " there
may be something in what you say ; but we might as
well try to confine the waves of the sea, as a certain

D 2

king did, as to keep back science. Science, admiral,
must have her way."

'' Let'erhav'erway," cried the old man, 'down to the
bottom if sheshamind. One good seamanship worth more
'ana shipload philosophers. Let'emman'erownships ;
let'em man their own ships. Crew philosophers
'stead seamen. Bust their boilers's often 'shthejlike
and devil a harm."

He says the new ships should have crews of philosophers,"
said Miss Trevor, tranquilly, putting up her
hand to silence the anxious " I did not catch your last
remark," to which Lord Westland was about to give
utterance. The peer shook his indulgent head.

"My dear admiral, philosophers, though it may
please you and me, who are old-fashioned, to rail
at them, are rapidly becoming the masters of the
world."

Mashters-o-fiddlshticks," said the old sailor. ''Put-

'endow the d d rattles, shee how theylikeit'em-

shelves. Old comines under water, call that a ship !
None o' God's air, noneoGod's light — all machines
an'gasburnersh. Smash 'erownconsortsh — run every
thin down — 'chest english ! " he sputtered forth

triumphantly, with a laugh of angry triumph in his
own argument.

He says they run everything down, except the
enemy," said Miss Trevor. '' I should like myself to
know why there are so many collisions nowadays. My
father says it is all science and boilers. Why is it,
Lord Westland ? " And she put up that ear-trumpet,
of which everybody was afraid, for her noble neighbour's
use.

'' Did you hear that last piece of news about the
Markhams ? " said Lady Westland. " All off at a
moment's notice, the very day they were expected here.
They really ought to have waited and showed themselves,
and not given colour to all the stories that are
about."

Are there stories about ? I have not heard any.
Markham only came home two days ago. Do you mean
about the ministry ? Is it supposed to be insecure ? "

Oh no," cried Lady Westland, with an ineffable
smile. " The ministry ! — oh no, Mr. Stainforth ; that
is much too well secured with the best and most influential
support. The opposition need not trouble
themselves about that."

Lady Westland looked at her husband with honest
admiration. He was a consistent supporter of government
— and standing, as he did, with his legs wide apart
and his shoulders squared, anticipating with dread the
necessity of speaking into the trumpet and preparing
himself for the effort, he looked a very substantial prop.

"Ah, to be sure," said the rector. "I forgot for the
moment we take different sides."

'•' My dear rector, how you, a dignified clergyman and
a man of family, can take the Liberal side ! " said Lady
Westland. " It seems more than one can believe.
But, oh no — oh dear no ! of course I would not for the
world say a word to weaken old ties or change convictions.
An opinion that has stood the test of years
is a sacred thing. But I did not mean anything
political. Don't you know, dear Mr. Stainforth, the
very sad stories that are told everywhere about Paul ? "

What has Paul been doing ? " said the old rector.
He did not himself very much approve of Paul.
Staying up to read Alas a new sort of idea which had
not been thought of in his day. He did not much
believe in young fellows reading when a set of them
got together. " Much more likely they are staying up

for some mischief," he had said when he heard of it,
and in consequence he was not disinclined or unprepared
to hear that there were stories about Paul.

Did not you hear what he did ? He brought some
frightful Radical agitator, some pubic-house politician
so they say — to the Chase, and made poor Lady
Markham take him in, and gave her all sorts of trouble.
I believe Sir William has scarcely spoken to him since
for being so silly. But we all know what a devoted
mother Lady Markham is. For my part, I think one's
husband has the first claim. And now they say he is
inveigled into some engagement, and is going to be
sent off to the Colonies and got rid of in that way."

I think there must be some mistake," said the
rector. "Men don't send their heirs to the Colonies,
nor get rid of them, except for very serious causes."

'* Oh, I am so glad you stand up for Paul ! I will
never believe it," said Ada Westland. " Paul inveigled
into any engagement ! How could you believe it, Mr.
Stainforth ? He is as proud as Lucifer. He thinks
none of us fit to pick up his handkerchief. Oh, I
know, we are all supposed to be on our promotion,
waiting till he may be pleased to look at us. I — and

Dolly too but he never did condescend to look at

us. If he were to marry, after that, a girl off the
streets "

Ada, my love, for Heaven's sake, take care how
you talk ! "

Oh, there is nobody but the rector, mamma, and
he knows we girls are not such fools as we are made to
look. If Paul Markham were to marry that sort of
person, I should laugh. It would be our revenge —
Dolly's and mine — whom he never would condescend to
look at. It would be nuts to me."

Did you ever hear anything so vulgar ? " said Mrs.
Booth to Mrs. Rossiter. " I never could abide that
girl. They have all thrown her and themselves at
Paul Markham's head. New people as they are, and
shoddy people, they would give their eyes to have her
married into such an old county family."

"But it is not true about Dolly," said the doctor's
wife. " Dolly has not such a notion in her head. Her
mind is full of the parish, and her father, and Frank.
I don't believe such an idea as getting married ever
crossed her mind at all."

Hem ! " said Mrs. Booth, with a doubtful little

couch, " I should not like to swear to that. ^Ybat did
you say, Lady Westland — haven't I heard it ? Well,
I have heard something about strange visitors. It
appears there have been several people at Markham
lately whom nobody has been asked to meet."

"That is very significant; I call it very significant.
When one's own friends cease to introduce their friends
to us, it is a token that all is not well. Don't you
think so ? " said Lady Westland, softly srniHng on the
doctor's wife.

Mrs. Rossiter's sympathies were all with the victims
who were being assailed. But the Westlands were very
fine people, much more '' difficult to know " than the
Markhams, and the doctor had not yet got a very distinct
footing at the Towers. His young wife thought
of her husband's position, and acquiesced with a sigh.

But it is not like them," she said. " The Markhams
are so hospitable ; they are such nice people ; they are
always kind."

Yes, they ask all sorts of people. It is extraordinary
the people one meets there," Lady Westland said ;
which made Mrs. Rossiter's cheek flame, and was a
very just recompense to her for her infidelity. And

then there was a pause, and the boom of Admiral
Trevor's bass, and the titillation of his sh's came in like
the chorus. He was still holding forth on the subject
of the Devastation.

I don't wish 'em any harm' said the old sailor ; " I
wish-e-may all go down in port like that one t'other
day. Wish-em wher-er sure to be looked after. No,
bless us all — no harm ! "

Meanwhile the games were going on merrily enough
in the paddock. Dolly flew about for three people.
She set the little ones afloat in one game, and the big
ones in another. The Markhams were still her best
allies, Bell throwing herself into the rounds and dances
of the infants with characteristic vigour ; but Harry and
Roland stood apart and whispered to each other, with
their hands in their pockets. They would have taken
the boys off to play cricket, had that been in the
programme.

No, I will not have it," Dolly said. " For once in a
way they shall be together. It's bad enough when they
grow up, when all the boys troop off for their own pleasure,
and never think what the girls are doing. It's
time enough to break up a party and make sects when

they're grown up," Dolly said. The boys stared, and
did not understand her. But it was natural enough
that she should be angry. Frank's cricket match was
rankling in his sister's mind. And Dolly thought
that " for once in a way " Paul Markham might have
thought of old friends. It was sure to be his fault that
even Ace had failed her ; Dolly had no idea how it
could be his fault, but she was sure of it. Her heart
was full of fury as she flew about from one group of
children to another, struggling against their tendency to
fall into detached parties, and let the amusements flag.
"It is far more their parish than it is mine ; they will
always have it," she said to herself When it began to
be time for the children to disperse, and the conclusion
of her labours approached, she was so far carried away
by her feelings as to forget that the Miss Trevor who
had helped her with the tea, but had been standing
helplessly about since, always in the way, was the shortsighted
one, and not the deaf one. " Oh, I wonder why
all these people don't go away?" she cried. 'haven't
they got dinners waiting at home ? ^^Tly do they stay
so long ? I am sure I don't want to have to go and
entertain them after the children go away." And then

poor Dolly recollected with horror that Mrs. Booth and
Mrs. Eossiter were to stay for a high tea, and that the
doctor was to come in to join them. '' Oh' she cried,
in her vexation, ''I shall not get rid of them to-night."

Of whom are you speaking, my dear ? " said Miss
Trevor, astonished — which brought Dolly to herself;
and, fortunately, Miss Trevor could not see that it washer
own party, and the rest of the people on the lawn,
whom Dolly meant. " I am afraid we must be going
very soon," she added, with regret. " I am sorry not
to stay and help you to the end. But dear papa must
not be exposed to the night dews."

Dolly had to marshal the children for a march round,
leading them in front of the company on the lawn, and
conducting the chorale (as the schoolmistress called it)
which they sang before they broke up. This was what
the fine people had remained for, and all the parish
would have been disappointed had they not stayed.
But, notwithstanding, it was hard upon her, tired as
she was, to have to stand and receive their compliments,
and to be told that it had been 'such a
pretty scene."

I enjoyed it very much," said Lady Westland, " I

assure you ; I only came to do a duty and countenance
you, my dear Dolly; but I quite enjoyed it."

We came to scoff, and we remained to play," said
Ada ; while Lord Westland squared his shoulders, and
threw out his chest, and repeated his wife's observation
about the pretty scene.

And I hope you will always calculate on me to give
my countenance whenever it is wanted," he said.

Dolly, though so tired, had to stand and smile, and
look gratified by all their compliments. And what was
worse, when they had all at last been got away, there
rose up from behind the chairs on which Mrs. Booth and
Mrs. Rossiter, waiting with the ease of habitudes till all
was over, had seated themselves again after their leave-taking,
a tall and gawky figure, dark in the fading
light.

'' Mr. Westland is going to stay, Dolly, to share our
evenings meal, though I have told him it will be a
homely one," the rector said, not without a tone of
apology in his voice. Another voice, high up in the air,
muttered something about the greatest pleasure. But
Dolly took no notice. This was the worst infliction of
all. She let herself drop into the wicker-work chair

with the cushions, which Lady Westland had declared
to be so comfortable.

I thought they were never going away," she said
with angry candour. '' I am so tired. I so wanted a
little peace."

The rector and young Westland both knew the
meaning of this speech, but neither ventured to reply.

Mrs. Booth, however, stretched out her hand and
gave the girl a friendly pinch. "They are the most
important people in the county, Dolly."

No, indeed, that they are not'' the girl cried loud
out. She was not one to desert her friends, even
though they might not be so good to her as she had
hoped. But as Mrs. Booth's remark had been made ina
whisper, no one knew exactly to what this prompt
contradiction referred.

At supper Mr. Westland was of course placed at
Dolly's right hand. If he was not the most important
young man in the neighbourhood, he was nominally of
the highest rank, and would no doubt have taken precedence
anywhere of Paul Markham. He was very
tall, and very lean, an overgrown, lanky boy, with big
projecting eyes, which were full of meaning when he

looked at Dolly — or at least of something which he
intended for meaning. He did not talk very much, but
he gazed at her constantly, which was very irritating to
Dolly. Mr. Rossiter was a much more lively person.
He came in in a state of high good-humour, which
none of the party already assembled shared. Both the
ladies who were Dolly's guests had grievances. They
had sat on uncomfortable chairs all the afternoon
by way of showing their identity with the best
families, but the Westlands and the Trevorss had taken
very little notice of them. The doctor's wife for one
felt that she had not been of that service to Dolly
which Dolly had a right to expect, and yet that
she had not asserted her husband's position in anything
like a satisfactory way by this failure in
friendship. The supper-table was not as lively as a
supper-table ought to be after a bright afternoon out
of doors.

'' I hope it all went off well," the doctor said as he
looked round the languid party, and saw how little
response there was in their faces to his cheery address
and simple jokes.

Oh, beautifully ! " said young Westland, finding his

voice with an effort; "like everything Miss Stainforth
has to do with."

There was no murmur of response ; and Dolly gave
her champion a glance which drove him back trembling
upon himself. Then Mrs. Booth said, stopping her
knife and fork, "I think we missed Lady Markham."
She said this as if it were a conclusion she had arrived
at by a long process of reasoning ; and then she returned
to her cold chicken with renewed zest.

That was it," cried Mrs. Kossiter, glad to hit upon
something which relieved her own sense of guilt. '' It
was Lady Markham we wanted. She makes everything
go smooth. She makes you feel that she takes an
interest in you, and wants you to be comfortable."

'' It is a pity," said the rector, 'that such a pleasant
type of character should so seldom be sincere."

Papa," said Dolly, " I can bear a great deal —
but if any one says any harm of the Markhams I
will not put up with it. If they had been here I
should not have had everything to do myself If
they had been here those tiresome people would have
gone away at the right time, and everything woukl
have gone right. Sincere ! Do you think it is sincere

to say nasty things, and get out of temper when one
is tired — like me ? "

And poor Dolly nearly cried ; till the doctor threatened
her with a mixture to be taken three times a day ;
when she made a great effort, and shook off her evil
disposition. Besides she had fired her shots right and
left, wounding two bosoms at least, and there was an
ease to the mind in that which could not be gainsaid.

*' But I hear there are unpleasant stories afloat about
the Markhams," the rector said at his end of the
table. " I hope my old friend, Sir William, has not been
remiss in his duties. A father should never give up his
authority, even to his wife. I fear among them," he
added, shaking his white head, 'they have done
everything they could to spoil Paul."

"So I hear," said Mrs. Booth, shaking hers. But
nobody knew what was the real charge against the
!^[arkhams, or what it was that Paul had done. And
after Dolly's profession of faith in them, which was
something like an accusation against the others, these
others might shake their wise heads, and communicate
between themselves their adverse opinions. But before
Dolly there was not another word to say.

VOL. II. E

The rectory of Markham Royal was a very good living
a living intended for the second son of the reigning
family when there was a second son ; and indeed it was
more than probable that Roland Markham, when he
grew up, would have to "go in for" the Church, in
order to take advantage of this family provision. Sir
William, being in his own person the third son of his
family, and the youngest, there was nobody who had a
claim upon it when he came into possession of the title
and estates ; for the Markhams of Underwood, who were
the next heirs, and who had been very confident in their
hopes up to the moment of Sir William's marriage — a
wrong which they had never forgiven — had but one son,
who was too old to be cut into clerical trim. This was
how Mr. Stainforth had got the living. He had held it

for nearly thirty-five years, and had been a good rector
enough, jogging on very easily, harming nobody, and if
not particularly active in his parish, at least quite
amiable and inoffensive, friendly with all the best
families, and not uncharitable to the poor. He had a
Little money of his own, and had kept a good table, and
returned to a certain degree the civilities of his richer
neighbours. And he had been able to keep a pretty
Httle carriage for his wife as long as she lived, and for
his daughter; and altogether to maintain the traditionary
position which the rector of Markham E,oyal
had always held in the county. Perhaps an inoffensive
man who disturbs nobody is the one who can hold such
a position best ; just as it is better (though this rule has
at present a brilliant exception) for a president of the
Royal Academy to be not too distinguished a painter,
and even sometimes for a bishop not to be too great a
divine.' Society prefers the suave and mediocre, and
when a man acquires a high place in its ranks by reason
of his profession, requires of him that he should be as
little professional as possible. Mr. Stainforth was of the
good old order of the squire-parson, the clerical country
gentleman who respects abuses which are venerable,

E 2

uMVERsmr OF iumo»i

and deprecates any great eagerness about the way to
heaven. Perhaps he had not very distinct views about
heaven at ail. Now and then lie would preach a sermon
about golden gates, and harps, and shining raiment, but
it was seldom, if ever, of his own composition. In his
own practice he thought it. best to think as little about
dying as possible, and he did not try to impose a different
rule on his neighbours. He thought that it
would most likely all come right somehow or other in
the end, and that in the meantime there was not much
good to be done by too much dwelling on the subject,
which indeed is a view of the subject which a great
many people are disposed to take. He had lived long
enough to see all his sons and daughters established in
life, which was a great matter. He had two girls who
were very well married, and two sons with capital
appointments, besides Frank, who was scrambling for
his living somehow, and could manage to "get on" —
and Dolly, who was too young to cost very much.
There was enough to provide for Dolly when the rector
should die — and he felt that he had fully done his duty
to his family. And he had done his duty to his parish.
There was no more dissent than was inevitable; and

Mr. Stainforth treated it as inevitable, and did not
interfere with it. He was very reasonable on this
subject — so reasonable that the curates he had generally
disagreed with him violently ; and he was at the present
period taking the duty alone, though it was somewhat
laborious, rather than attempt to regulate the young
assistant priest who set up confessions, or the muscular
young parson who instituted games.

"Let the people alone," was Mr. Stainforth's rule,
to which these hot-headed young neophytes without
experience would give no faith. Sometimes he would
be quite eloquent on the subject. 'let the chapel
alone," he would say. "What can we do in the
Church with the emotions, especially among the
poor ? A washerwoman who has feelings wants her
chapel. It makes her a great deal happier than you
or I could do. All that does the Church good.
And let the others peg away at me if they please.
It keeps Spicer amused, and keeps him out of more
mischief"

Spicer was the village grocer, against whom all the
young men hurled themselves and their arguments in
vain. But the rector dealt with Spicer, and always had

a chat with him when he passed the shop-door. There
was a mutual respect between them.

'but our rector, I don't say nothing against him,"
Spicer would say at the end of his speech, when there
was any demonstration in the neighbourhood in the
dissenting interest ; '' he mayn't be much of a one for
work, but he's a credit to the place." There was a great
deal to be said for the head of the parish hierarchy who
continued to get his things from you, blandly indifferent
to the fact that you were a dissenter, and in despite of
all those co-operative societies which drive grocers to a
keener frenzy than any Church establishment. Lord
Westland got all his things down from town, and so did
the doctor and the smaller magnates; while even the
chapel minister was known to have a clandestine
hamper, given out to be a present from some supporter,
but arriving suspiciously once a month. The rector,
however, never swerved. To him the parish was the
parish, and a Markham Royal grocer the proper grocer
for Markham Royal — a principle which could not but
have its reward.

This was the chief reason, and not economy, as many
people said, why Mr. Stainforth did the duty himself,

and had no curate. Dolly was his curate. She had
been born in the order, so to speak, and none could
recollect the time when she had not felt it her duty to
set an example, and carried more or less the burden
of the parish upon her shoulders. She had been
dedicated, like young Samuel, from her earliest years
to the service of the Temple. She set out upon her
round of visits every day as regularly as any curate
could have done, had her days for the schools, and her
clothing clubs, and her mother's meetings, at which the
seventeen-year-old creature discoursed the women about
their duties to their families in a way which was beautiful
to hear. How she could know so much about
children was a standing wonder to the women ; but it
was just as astounding to see her calculate the interest
upon eleven pence halfpenny at four and a half per cent ;
indeed a great deal more miraculous to some of us.
She played the organ in church ; she took charge of the
decorations. She watched all the sick people, careful
to observe just the right moment when it was expedient
to send papa ; " and the parish got on very pleasantly
under the joint sway of the father and daughter. It
did not make a very great appearance in the diocesan

lists of subscriptions, and there was no doubt that a
great many of the people who had feelings, as the
rector said, went to the little Wesleyan chapel. But
Mr. Stainforth did not mind that. It was a safety
valve, and so was the Bethel chapel, in the nearest
town, to which Spicer went every Sunday, which was
much less tolerant than Bethesda, and hurled all
manner of denunciations against the Church. Sometimes
the neighbouring incumbents would warn the
rector that his village was a hotbed of mischief, and be
very severe on the subject of his excessive tolerance.
But Mr. Stainforth was seventy-six, and not likely to
live long enough to see an}^ of the great earthquakes
with which they threatened him. " There will be peace
in my time," he said.

This supineness did not displease Sir William, who,
though in opposition, held fast to the old Whig maxims
of freedom of opinion, and preferred to conciliate the
dissenters, with an eye to the general elections and
their political support generally. He went very
regularly to church at the head of his fine family,
but there was always a consciousness in him that,
much as he should regret it, it might possibly be his

duty one day or other to assail the establishment ; and
he thought it a point of honour not to show any exaggerated
attachment to it now which might be turned
into reproaches afterwards. Neither did the Trevorss
object at all to Mr. Stainforth's easy good temper.
The things they were afraid of were the Pope, and the
Jesuits, whom they supposed to be lurking under every
hedgerow. So long as the rector kept rituals at bay
they found no fault \N^th him. The Westlands, however,
were very strong on the opposite side. They
were people who endeavoured always to do as persons
of their rank ought to do, and they liked a high ritual
just as they liked high life. Though they "countenanced"
the school-feast, and were always ready to do
their duty in this way in the parish, yet they never let
slip an opportunity of expressing their opinion of the
rector's weakness.

"But we have no influence," Lady Westland said.
The living is in the hands of the Markhams.
Though they are commoners they were settled here
before us, and therefore have the advantage of us in a
great many ways."

It was a bold thing to say this in the very district

where it was well known the Markhams had been
established for centuries, and where Lord Westland
had acquired the Towers by purchase only about a
dozen years before. But if there was one quality upon
which Lady Westland prided herself it was courage.
She was somewhat bitter about the Markhams altogether.
There were so many things in which they had
the advantage of her. To be sure, she took precedence
of Lady Markham whenever they met, and walked
triumphantly out of the room before her ; but she could
not but be aware that in most other ways the baronet's
wife had the best of it. The Chase had been in the
Markham family for generations, whereas Westland
Towers was painfully new; and to come to still more
intimate particulars, Paul Markham was a young man
of distinction, whereas George Westland, though an
honourable, was nothing but an overgrown school-boy.
Ada, indeed, was quite as handsome, perhaps handsomer,
than Alice, and much cleverer : but she did not
receive the same attention. Ada was withal rather a
difficult young woman, who gave her parents a great
deal of trouble. She took a pleasure in running her
talk to the very edge of evil, and made every kind of

daring revelation about herself and her family, putting
her mother's secret intentions into large type and publishing
them abroad. She liked to see the flutter of
semi-horror, semi-incredulity with which her bold sayings
were received. She liked to shock people; but
perhaps, at the same time, she made a shrewd calculation
that, when she published what seemed to be
to her own disadvantage, nobody would believe her.
This, however, was not so successful an expedient as
appeared. When she said that Paul had been expected
to throw his handkerchief at her, nobody took it for an
impertinent volley of extravagance on her part. It was
vain that she involved Dolly in it. In the very faces of
her auditors Ada saw the truth reflected back to her ;
and thus, though she would not have hesitated to marry
the heir of the Markhams, she could not excuse the
family for what they brought upon her. Lord West-land
was not a man to feel the stings which hurt his
wife and daughter. He was protected by a much
higher opinion of himself; but even he felt a certain
annoyance with ''my friend Markham," who was
listened to more respectfully, and looked up to with
much more trust than he. Lord Westland took this as

an instance of the folly and stupidity of country people,
but yet he felt it in his heart.

Thus the one family was to the other what Mordecai
was to Hainan. Lady Wesfcland kept her ears always
open to hear anything to the disadvantage of the Markhamss.
Paul's youthful vagaries, and even the little
scrapes which Harry and Poland got into at school she
seized upon with eagerness. She was as much interested
in chronicling these misdeeds as if they had been
so many items to her advantage ; but, notwithstanding
everything, the Markhams always came off the best.
George Westland got into more scrapes at school than
all of them put together; and now that he had
come home, and had finished his education, what
must he do, this heir to a peerage, this only son of
so rich and important a house, but go sighing and
gaping after Dolly Stainforth, who was no more
than the parson's daughter? His mother and sister
were driven almost wild by the mere suspicion of
this. And not only was it day by day more evidently
true, but it even became apparent to them that
George for once had reached a point from which he
would neither be bullied nor frightened. He let

them say whatever they pleased, but he took his
own way.

What Dolly thought of this has been already seen.
Dolly, who was angry at her brother's defection and
sadly wounded by the failure of the Markhams, resented
George Westland's presence more than she did the
absence of the others, and turned her back upon him.
rejecting his services. She treated him with absolute
contumely, impatient of his very look. Why is it that
the TNTong person will always present himself in such
cases ? Why, when a girl's fancy is caught by one
youth, will another attach himself to her side, and
devote himself to her service, to have all the little
carelessness of the other resented upon him ? Dolly
had not a word to say to young Westland. She would
have liked to have pushed him aside out of her way ;
and Paul perhaps had not given one thought to Dolly
since they danced together at the children's balls at the
Chase, while he was still a schoolboy. Thus the threads
in the shuttle of life mix themselves up and get all
woven the wrong way.

The Trevorss were happily beyond the reach of all
tremors of this kind. The old admiral lived a kind of

mummy life, swathed in flannels against the rheumatism,
and in bandages against the gout, with his food
weighed out to him, and his wine measured by the too-scrupulous
care of his daughter, whose life was spent
in guarding him against cold and indigestion and
excitement. Miss Trevor, the eldest, though she was
deaf, always heard and understood what he said; but
Miss Matilda, the second, never understood her dear
papa, and had constantly to have his commands repeated
to her. Between her parish work, in which she was
assiduous, and her dear papa, this good soul's existence
was full. She was very humble-minded, and anxious
to please everybody, but yet she was constantly giving
offence to Mrs. Booth, whom she sometimes passed in
the road, and sometimes brushed against at the church
door, without seeing. Thus her inoffensive life was
diversified by a succession of little quarrels, wholly
unintentional, and which the poor lady could not understand.
But these were the only palpitations in her
calm existence ; and her sister was free even from such
agitation. She gave herself up to the housekeeping,
and to reading the newspapers, which she did every
morning, from beginning to end, specially dwelling

upon all the naval debates and letters about the construction
of ships. To give the admiral his " nourishment
" at the proper time, to see that the carriage came
round exactly at the right moment, to regulate the
length of the drive to a moment, this was " a woman's
work," and absorbed the admiral's daughter in all the
rigidity of routine. Thus life went on — as if it would
never end.

As this history is for once to dwell in the highest
circles, and deal only with people who may be called
county people, and were of the highest importance in
the district, it is scarcely necessary to speak of the
smaller gentry. There were one or two small proprietors
who farmed their o-^tl land, or who had so little
land that it was scarcely worth farming, who lived about
the skirts of the parish, and scarcely counted among its
aristocracy. Some of these were so much nearer other
parish churches that they did not even come to church
at Markham Royal. Sir William Markham owned
almost the whole of the parish. He had widened out
his borders year by year during the long time he had
held the property, and swallowed up various decaying
houses of old squires. Such . a little villa as Rosebank

could not make any claim to be considered among the
very smallest proprietors, and it was more to her
devotion to the church than to anything else that Mrs.
Booth owed her social elevation. She was very good
in the parish. She and her niece visited the poor
assiduously, and were familiar every-day visitors at the
rectory, and so insensibly saw themselves received
everywhere. They were the agents of almost every
scheme of social improvement, always ready to act for
the greater ladies, who had less time to spare, and
content to pick up the crumbs of society from these
great folks' tables. Though they were quite insignificant
in themselves they were in the midst of everything,
and not unimportant members of the society which
admitted them on sufferance, yet ended by being somewhat
dependent upon them. If ever Miss Trevor
enjoyed a holiday from her close attendance on her
father, it was when Mrs. Booth had the carriage sent
for her before luncheon and came to spend the day, with
her dinner-dress and her cap in a little box. She could
manse to sues at what the admiral meant, and she
would play at backgammon with him, or read the newspapers,
while Jane Trevor rested her weary soul in ^ er

own room, writing a detailed report to her jurist, or
putting a few new verses into a book with a Branch
lock, which held the confidences of her life. It was
Miss Booth who was the most popular of the two at
Westland Towers, where Ada liked to have a hanger-on.
But in the rectory they were both in their element —
more familiar, and constantly interfering with Dolly,
whom they both were very fond of, and whom they
worried considerably. Rosebank had a balance and
pendant in Elderbower, where lived an Indian officer
and his family, but the Elders were a large family very
much occupied with each other, with the cares of
education, and making both ends meet ; and consequently
they took little part in what was going on,
and need not be counted at all.

This was the circle which encompassed the Markhams
like a chorus, like the ring of spectators which is
always found encircling combatants in all classes. In
this arena, round which were raised all the bystanders,
was about to be enacted the drama of their family life.

VOL. II.

Mr. Augustus Markham Gaveston strolled up the
village when the children left him, looking curiously at
all the cottages, till he came to the little whitewashed
country inn, which called itself the Markham Arms.
The little gentleman was full of interest in everything.
He stopped and looked in at the windows of the little
shop, where everything was sold, from biscuits to petticoats
— gazed in with as much interest as if it had been
a shop in Bond Street. He crossed over the street to
see where the post-office was, and to look at the smithy,
where the blacksmith and his journeyman and apprentice
paused to push their caps from their foreheads and
stare at him, as did also the groom from Westland
Towers, very trim and fine, who had brought Mr.
Westland's horse to have his shoes looked to. They

all stared, and the stranger returned their gaze with
smiling complacency, evidently thinking it quite natural
that they should stare at him — a thing to be looked for.
And the school children stared at him whom he met on
their way to the rectory. Mr. Augustus did not mind.
He looked at them all paternally, patting the heads of
some of the little ones. The little girls curtsied to
him — as you may be sure in schools superintended by
Miss Stainforth they had been taught to do — and this
pleased him greatly. He took off his hat to them,
which astonished the children as much as his white
umbrella did, and the strangeness of his appearance
altogether. The village was in a commotion, as was
natural, by reason of the school-feast, and the arrival of
so many carriages and visitors. Half at least of the
houses were still pouring forth little bands in their best
clothes, mothers and aunts standing at the door to
watch the effect. So that it was a kind of triumphal
progress which he made through the village street,
where everybody was glad to have a new object to
occupy them after the children had disappeared. The
Markham Arms was not a much frequented inn ; but
it was as clean and neat as it was quiet and homely,

F 2

and there was a pretty little parlour with a bow-window,
all clustered with the common sweet clematis, the travellers'
joy, and honeysuckle, into which Mrs. Boardman
ushered the stranger with secret pride, yet many
apologies.

'' There is a bigger room up stairs, sir ; but if so be
as you could do with this till tomorrow "

It is the very thing I want," he said ; and he
bade her send some one to the station for his
portmanteaus. "Only the portmanteaus. I don't
want the big cases." This dazzled the landlady,
and indeed there were found to be three large cases
besides the portmanteaus, cases so large that it was all
the little station could do to afford them shelter and
safety. John Boardman fetched the other boxes himself,
and was duly impressed by this evidence of wealth.
The name on the luggage, as on the little gentleman's
card, was Markham Gaveston ; but whether by some
freak of the uninstructed artist who had written the
name in bold characters of print upon the cases, the
Gaveston was small, and the Markham large, so that
there was some doubt in the minds of the people, both
at the station and the inn, which was the name to call

the new-comer by ; and what was still more odd, when
they asked him, he only laughed and answered, '' Which
you please," which confused them more and more. He
informed John Boardman, however, that he was a relation
of the family, but had been in foreign parts all his
life, and had never seen Markham before; and, as he
brought in the boys from the Chase to dine with him
that very evening, there could be no doubt as to the
justice of this claim. Also the landlord had a letter to
put in the post for him that night which was addressed
to Sir William Markham at Oxford. He must be a
relation, but who was he ? For the next two days the
village was very much disturbed by this question.
There were old people in the place who were proud to
think that they knew Sir William's relations better
than he himself did ; but who this little gentleman was,
and what might be the degree of his cousinship, they
found it very hard to make out. He laughed once more
when he was asked if he was " a full cousin," or a more
distant relation.

Something of that sort," he said, with a twinkle in
his eye, as if this was a capital joke. He was so constantly
about, and so ready to make acquaintance with

everybody, that in two days the whole village knew him ;
and this question weighed upon the mind of the community.
At last one of the old women in the almshouses
who had spent half her life in the nursery at the
Chase, by dint of almost superhuman cogitation, found
a clue to the mystery. She remembered that one of
the daughters of the late Mr. Markham of Underwood,
who was '' full cousin " to Sir William, had gone abroad
after she became a widow, a very long time ago. Most
likely she must have married again and become the
mother of this little brown gentleman, who no doubt
looked older than he was, being so spare and so brown.
This was an explanation that satisfied everybody. The
lady's name had been Willoughby when she left England,
but what of that ? It took a weight off the mind of the
village to have the stranger thus made out and set in
his right place.

And during the three days he spent in the village
Mr. Markham Gaveston made acquaintance with everybody.
His curiosity was insatiable. All day long he
strolled about and questioned everybody. When he saw
old Sophy coming from the .woods with her bundle of
sticks, he insisted on knowing where she got them, and

how she got them, and all about her. Nothing escaped
him. He found out that it was Lord Westland's groom
that was at the smithy when he passed, and that the
horse belonged to the Honourable Mr. Westland, and
that the Honourable Mr. Westland was always finding
errands to bring him to the rectory. This information
he picked up by the way, as one to whom all news was
pleasant ; but the Markhams were the real objects of
his inquiries. And when the landlady proceeded to
intimate that Mr. Westland might save himself the
trouble, since Miss Dolly cared more for Mr. Paul's little
finger than for all his grandeur, and his title, the little
gentleman at once owned the stronger spell.

So there's a love-story going on, is there ? " he cried
briskly. " Mr. Paul ! that's my young relation, I suppose
? Are they going to marry ? Come, tell me all
about it. This interests me."

Oh, marry, sir ; bless you ! Xo, it ain't gone so far
as that," Mrs. Boardman cried. And she had to protest
that there was nothing but 'idle tales " in what she
had said — her own silly fancies, as she added, with
anxious humility, and bits of gossip among the servants.
You won't say as I said it, sir," she added. '•' I

wouldn't be the one to make mischief for all the world,
nor vex Miss Dolly, so good as she is ; and most likely
my lady wouldn't like it — and I don't say nothing for
Mr. Paul neither. He is mostly away ; it isn't what you
could call keeping company. Oh, if us women hadn't
got no tongues, what a deal o' mischief 'd be spared ! "

'' That's what I'm always telling you," said John.

"And the men's worse," said his wife, going on.
'' Us women, we lets a thing slip, and never thinks ;
but the bad stories, them as sets folks by the ears, they
always comes from the men."

This amused Mr. Markham Gaveston greatly. He
clapped his hands and encouraged them both to
continue.

'' At her, John ! " he said, behind the good woman's
back ; but John shook his head and retired. He knew
better.

And Mrs. Boardman wiped her hands on her apron,
and went off ''to see to my dinner." The dinner
naturally was not hers, but her guest's, who was a
small eater — much too small an eater ; a single chop
was all he had for lunch, a chicken served him two
days for dinner. There was little credit in cooking for

any one who was so easily satisfied. To be sure he had
suggested one or two eccentric dishes to her when he
came, which Mrs. Boardman had never heard of, and
which she had declared could not be half so good for
any one's " innards" as a plain joint ; but since that
the stranger had made no remarks, eating what was
set before him without remonstrance, but too little of it
to please bis hostess. He was much more greedy of
news than he was of his dinner ; and this last piece of
information cost him a great deal of thought.

Next day, the third day of his stay at Markham
Royal, Dolly Stainforth had a little expedition to make
by railway. Though she was far from being an emancipated
young lady, and though her father was very
careful that she should have in general all the guardianship
that her position required, yet to be always
accompanied by a servant on the little journeys which
she made periodically to see an old aunt only two
stations off was a burden Dolly could not consent to :
for which reason it had become the habit at Markham
Royal to appropriate a vacant carriage to the use of
ladies — a carriage over which the gaiard was supposed
to watch, defending it from all male intruders. In this

compartment old George, the man-servant at the
rectory, carefully placed his young mistress ; and all
went on as usual till the very moment before the train
started, when old George was gone, and the attention of
the guard distracted ; when the door of Dolly's carriage
was suddenly, swiftly, noiselessly opened, and a little
gentleman, in loose, light-coloured clothes, jumped in.

Dolly was so much startled that it was a minute
before she found her breath, and in that minute the
train had glided from the station.

I fear I have frightened you," the stranger said.

Dolly was not at all frightened, but she was true to
her father's precautions.

"Oh, no; but this is a carriage for ladies," she
said.

Dear me, what a pity ! " cried the little man ; but
it was easy to see by his countenance that he did not
think it a pity. " I am a stranger here," he said, "a
stranger in England. I don't know all your ways. I
will change at the next station if I am disagreeable
to you."

'' Oh, no," cried Dolly, horrified to be supposed guilty
of rudeness. 'rit is not that. It is only that I am

supposed always to travel by myself. Papa insists on a
ladies' carriage. But it does not at all matter," she
added, with a glance that ^Yas not flattering to the
special intruder in question. " ]Nobody could mind "

Dear, dear ! Dolly thought to herself, this is ruder
still ; and blushed crimson.

The stranger, however, did not draw from this any
conclusions which were humiliating to himself. People
are not so close to mark our looks and words as we
imagine them to be. He smiled serenely, and as the
train was now plunging along in the fussy yet leisurely
manner common to a country train which stops at all
the stations, resumed, with an air of great satisfaction
and complacency —

I am very glad you don't mind ; for I came into
the carriage on purpose — because I saw you get in. I
wanted to speak to you," said Mr. Markham Gaveston,
with a genial smile.

Then Dolly began to quake a little. Was he mad —
or what did he mean ? " Do you know me ? " she
said, faltering. She had heard of the stranger at the
Markham Arms, but had not seen him.

'* I have the pleasure of knowing who you are," he

said, taking off his hat with the utmost politeness.
"My little — relations, the little Markhams, pointed
you out to me."

Oh," cried Dolly again, " then you are ? "

Yes, exactly," he said, smiling, " that is what I
am. I have come from the tropics, and I do not know
much about England. If I say anything that is very
unusual, I hope you will excuse me. It is disagreeable
that they should be away just when I have come sofar
to see them."

Yes," said Dolly, hesitating. She could not refuse
to answer him; but to discuss her friends with a
stranger was a thing against which her heart revolted.
"They did not expect to be away; it was quite
unexpected," she said.

'' And I have no reason to complain, for they did not
know I was coming. All the same, one may say it is
disagreeable, don't you think ? I have to put up in the
inn, instead of being in my — instead of being among
my own people."

Do you know the Markhams, sir ? " said Dolly.

She had a way of saying "sir" to men whom
she considered old men ; but happily Mr. Markham

Gaveston did not know what was his title to so
respectful an address.

I know the little boys and the little girls," he said.
*'I could wish there were no more."

"Why?"

Dolly turned upon him with a flash of indignation,
with eyes wide open and lips apart.

Ah ! what a silly thing to say, wasn't it ? " he said.
You may be sure I couldn't have meant it. I want
you to tell me about the others — the eldest girl and
the boy."

I ! tell you — about the others ! "

Dolly grew pale, and then red again. Either he
must be mad, which had been her first thought, or
else

"Yes," he said, quite calmly, 'don't be frightened.
I want to have a good account of them and that is
what has brought me to you*'

Once more Dolly stared at him in consternation.
She wanted to be angry and think him impertinent,
but he was not impertinent.

Don't be frightened," her strange companion went
on. " I want to hear all that is good of them. They tell

me that I won't hear anything that is not good from
you.

Mr. sir ! How can I talk," cried Dolly, with

crimson cheeks, " of my friends to you ? I — don't knoAV
you. Why do you want to question any one about
them ? Who told you I would say nothing that was
not good ? Does anybody think," cried Dolly, her eyes
flaming, " that I would say either good or bad, for anyone,
that was not true ? "

'' I cannot answer so many questions at once," said
the little gentleman ; " besides, that is not what I want ;
I want to ask, not to answer. I want to know about my
relations. When I see them, perhaps they may not
be very civil to me ; they may think me a bore."

'' Oh ! " cried Dolly, '' certainly they will be civil.
Alice is too kind for anything else, and Paul — Paul
is a gentleman," she said, raising her head. A softness
came over the girl's eyes. She had no thought of betraying
herself ; perhaps indeed she was not aware that
there was anything to betray ; but in spite of herself, a
certain subdued and dreamy glow, a kind of haze of
golden light, came into her brown eyes at Paul's
name.

'' Well, that is something," said the stranger ; '' you
don't think then that they will take to me much ?
but because the one is kind, and the other a
gentleman "

That was not what I meant. Am I to pay you
components to your face ? " said Dolly, stopping short
and looking suddenly up, half impatient, half amused.

Certainly, if you wish to," he cried, promptly.
Oh, yes — do not be shy. I should not at all mind a
compliment or two ; indeed I think I should like them.
Do not stand upon ceremony. If you can say seriously
that you think me so nice that Alice will like me at
once, and your Paul claim me as a brother "

He is not my Paul," cried Dolly, with another hot
blush. '' I do not like such a way of speaking. And,
Mr. "

She paused for his name, but the little man was
malicious, and would not give it. He nodded his head
two or three times.

Just so," he said. " That is quite right," smiling
with a mischievous smile.

Mr.— Markham," Dolly said with a burst. " If that
is not your right name, it is not my fault. How could

Paul receive you as a brother ? You must mean as —
an uncle perhaps. Do you know that Paul is only
just come of age, and Alice is but six months older
than I?"

'' Ah," said Mr. Markham Gaveston, stroking his
moustache. '' I did not think of that' and he looked at
her with un expression half comic, half sad, slightly
discomfited there could be no doubt. From this he
shook himself free, however, and asked suddenly, 'how
old may Sir William be ? "

"Sir William? Oh, quite old," said Dolly. She
gave a furtive glance at him this time, anxious to keep
on the safe side, and making a calculation in her own
mind how old this little brown gentleman himself could
be. Fifty, sixty ? these two ages were much the same
to Dolly. There was not to her any appreciable
difference in their extreme oldness and far-offers. Even
forty was very old. Her mind wandered hazily, confused
on these grey and misty heights. " He is not so
old as papa," she said with hesitation, " for papa, you
know, was his tutor at college ; but he is a great deal
older than Lady Markham. He did not marry till he
was about — I don't quite know how much — about forty,

I think I have heard people say," said D«jlly, with a
certain awe in her voice.

And that seems quite old to you ? "

It is old to be married, is it not ? And Lady
Markham was so beautiful, everybody says. She is
beautiful still. I don't know any one so lovely. I tell
Alice often though I love her dearly, she is not half,
oh, not a quarter so pretty as her mamma."

How does Alice like that ? It will not please her
much, I should think. I should not say that if I
wanted her to like me."

The disdain with which Dolly erected her small
head, and looked at him !

That only shows," she said, " how little you know.
Any girl would be a great deal more proud of her
beautiful mamma than if she were ever so pretty
herself. And Alice is very pretty. She has the sweetest
eyes you ever saw. Quite blue like the sky — the deep
sky. Not this Httle bit of no colour at all," she said,
pointing upwards to the hazy grey-blue of heat :
but the deep, deep sky — the blue-blue behind the
clouds. Everything about her is pretty ; but she is
not so handsome, so beautiful, as Lady Markham.

VOL. II. G

Being beautiful, and being pretty, are two different
things."

Her companion did not pay much attention to Dolly's
reflections. He broke the thread of them quite abruptly
by asking all at once —

'^ And Paul ? "

Paul ! " Dolly raised her slight figure bolt upright
as though she had been fifty. " You are very much
interested in Paul, Mr. — Markham ; but then you don't
know them. I care for Alice most."

He answered by a laugh. What did he laugh at,
this very strange disagreeable little gentleman ? Dolly
had thoughts of turning her back upon him, of saying
no more to him, of requesting him to change into
another carriage at the station which they were approaching.
But after all she did not want to be rid of
him. She could not help liking to talk about the
Markhams. What could be more natural ? Were they
not her oldest friends ? her nearest neighbours ? the
people to whom she owed most of her pleasures ? It
was not doing any harm to them ; on the contrary, it
might be doing them good. Dolly tried to remember,
though her heart fluttered, whether she had ever heard

of any rich uncle or benevolent relation who might
intend to surprise them, to come home incognito, and
find out their characters before he left them all his
money. If this was so, might it not be for their very
highest advantage that she should talk of them ? Mr.
Markham Gaveston was the ideal of a rich uncle
traveling incognito, such as appears now and then in
novels. Perhaps he might intend to represent himself asa
poor, not a rich, relation in order to try them. Dolly
smiled within herself as this idea crossed her mind.
Then indeed it was quite certain who his money would
come to ! He would be received as if he were a prince.
Lady Markham and Alice would not know how to do
enough for him. They would try to make him forget
his imaginary troubles ; they would comfort him for all
his losses. If this was what he meant to do, Dolly
smiled to think of the certain issue. Before she came
to this smile, she had made a long circuit in her
thoughts, and had half or wholly forgotten the laugh
which had for a moment roused her indignation. And
when he saw her smile, her companion took it as a sign
of amnesty, and himself resumed the conversation.
Come," he said, " you have told me about the

G 2

ladies; it is the turn of the others now; so if you
please, let us return to the most important. I want to
know about Paul."

Is he the most important ? " said Dolly, doing her
best to move her pretty upper lip into a semblance of
scorn ; then she dropped from this height of proud
disdain, and admitted in a cheerful tone, " I suppose he
will be to gentlemen. I do not know Paul so well ;
that is natural. He has been away a great deal — not
always at home like Alice ; he was at school first, and
now he has been nearly three years at Oxford. I have
seen him only in the holidays. That makes a great
difference," said Dolly, demurely. She looked at her
questioner with quiet defiance. If he thought she was
going to betray herself a second time ! And Mr.
Markham laughed too. They established a little tacit
confidence on this point — not that Dolly would have
owned to it for any inducement — but the stranger was
quick, and understood.

Shall you go and stay with them," she said, beginning
to carry the war into the enemy's country,
when they come back ? "

If they will have me," he said.

'' Oh, I am sure they will have you. If you take
my advice, Mr. — Markham, this is what you must do.
Pretend to be quite poor. Say you have lost everything,
and that instead of coming to England rich as
you had hoped, you have come with nothing. Oh,
what fun it will be," cried Dolly. " I will back you up
m everything you say. I will pretend you told me
about it. Do this, Mr. Markham, and you shall see
what will happen."

What would happen in many houses would be that
I should be turned to the door. But how do you know
that I am not poor ? then it would be no fun at all."

Dolly's laugh was a pleasure to hear ; it was so
honest, and simple, and sure. She had no doubt whatever
on the question. Her theory explained everything
delightfully. She did not even take the trouble to
reply to this suggestion. She said —

We are coming to the Pemberton station. Do you
mean to change here as you said ? "

I will go certainly, if you turn me out."

Here Dolly's laughing countenance suddenly clouded
over. She cast at him a quick glance of entreaty.

Oh, no, don't go, don't go," she cried. And then

she added, in a tone of annoyance, " I think everybody
is travelling to-day. Some people are always travelling.
It is horrid," cried Dolly, '' to see the same faces and
hear the same voices wherever one goes."

The cause of this ebullition of temper was easily
explained. It was George Westland, very deprecating
and humble, who had opened the carriage door.

Good morning, Miss Stainforth."

'' Good morning," Dolly replied, with a forbidding
face.

Is there any room in your carriage ? I am going
only as far as Firewood."

There is always room in my carriage," said Dolly,
'' for it is a ladies' carriage. This gentleman got in ina
hurry just as we were starting, but he is to leave if
any ladies come and want his place. I could not let
any other gentleman come in, but if Ada is with
you "

George Westland's countenance fell. It was a heavy
and not a lovely face, but there was feeling in it, and a
flicker of hope and pleasure had made his eyes bright,
i^ow the light went out of it suddenly. He uttered a

blank " Oh ! " of disappointment, and stood looking at
her with a vacant look. Her companion in the carriage
was not a likely person to excite any young lover's
jealousy, but yet

'' No, Ada is not with me," he said, fixing an anxious
look upon the stranger, who had retired to the other
window, and was ostentatiously abstracting himself from
the conversation. (She would surely never have anything
to say to a bit of a little old fellow like that, poor
George thought within himself) He lingered at the
window, not knowing what to say more, for conversation
was not his forte. At last he remembered a subject
which could not fail to be successful. 'have you
heard," he said — 'but of course you must have
heard — that Sir William is ill? He has been to
Oxford — something about Paul. What Paul has
been doing, I don't know," the young man went
on with increasing vigour, " but something to make
his people uneasy. And Sir William is ill ; someone
said just now they were bringing him home
to-day."

Sir William ill ! Oh, no, I have not heard anything
about it. It must be a mistake," said Dolly,

"for I am sure the children did not know, and they
would be sure to hear."

'■'I am afraid it is quite true," said the young man.
But with this he had to make an abrupt disappearance,
as the train was about setting off again. When he had
gone, Mr. Markham Gaveston drew near from the other
end of the carriage.

I did not want to interfere with your conversation,"
he said, with comical demureness. " He was not so
bold as I ; I did not ask leave. But indeed, poor young
man, as I am already in possession, it would not have
done him very much good."

Dolly did not think it necessary to take any notice,
and the distance to Birtwood was very short and left little
time for further talk. Her companion, on his side, did
not take any notice of the news about Sir William, which
Dolly hoped was not true. " The Westlands always
know before any one else if there is anything the matter
with the Markhams ; they seem to like to tell one,"
she complained, with a contradiction of her own hope.
But though he had been so profuse in his inquiries
before, the stranger said nothing more now. A certain
sternness had crept into his brown face ; the habitual

smile, half mocking, half complacent, died away from
his mouth, his upper lip set firmly upon the other.
But Dolly, who was not very deeply interested in the
Markhams' relation, did not notice these changes.

Birtwood was a railway junction, an important place
in those regions. All the traffic of the district, all the
comings and goings, had to concentrate there. Through
all the county it was well known that you were more
apt to see your friends at Birtwood than anywhere else.
It did not matter where they were going, everybody
passed by this point of union. People met as they
crossed each other to take the trains up and down;
there were all sorts of little services which one could
render to another ; and it was said that many marriages
had been made and friendships cemented during the
intervals of waiting which were inevitable, in the
tedium of that new ill which modern flesh is heir to —
the necessity of waiting for your train. The train in
which Dolly and Mr. Markham Gaveston were was a
little local train, and therefore used with indignity. It
was pushed about, now to one side, now to the other,
before it was permitted to approach the platform,
another more important line of carriages being brought

up and allowed to disgorge its passengers before the
very eyes of the humble travellers who were kept behind,
making little runs up and down, though they had
arrived before the train which was thus preferred to
them. Dolly, though she was used to this, felt it incumbent
upon her to put on a show of indignation, for
she did not want a stranger to suppose that this was
how the trains from Markham Royal were always used.
I will make papa write about it," she said. She was
standing in front of the window when at last the train
drew up, obscuring the scene for the little man behind,
who took it patiently enough. mien, however, Dolly
uttered a little cry, and, leaning out head and shoulders,
made eager signs to some one already standing on the
platform, exclaiming, " Oh, Alice ! Alice ! wait a
moment," his interest was instantly roused. As soon
as the carriage stopped, the girl precipitated herself out
of it, and rushed towards two ladies who were waiting.
Mr. Markham Gaveston made no attempt to follow.
He placed himself at the window of the carriage and
looked out, his brown face wholly changed in aspect,
his eyebrows contracted, his lips set firm. Two women,
mother and daughter, one in full maturity, the other in

the sweetest bloom of youth, with their face turned towards
a third person, who came slowly along leaning
upon the arm of a young man. Dolly, rushing towards
them, was received by the other girl with a hurried
(gesture of her hand, half salutation, half intended to
draw the new-comer out of the way ; while the elder
lady took no notice, her face, which was full of anxiety,
being turned towards the advancing group. All the
people about followed more or less that anxious look,
and the officials of the place were crowding round in
respectful attendance. The spectator at the window,
who had grown very pale through his brownness, saw
an old man walking slowly and feebly along, leaning
heavily upon his companion's arm. He seemed to say
something as they made their way along, for the young
man turned round and waved his disengaged hand to
warn the bystanders away. The blood rushed into Gus
Markham's ears, tingling and throbbing, as he saw this
little procession pass, so close to where he sat at his
window that he could have touched the chief figure.
Sir William was ashy pale, his under lip drooped, one
of his hands hung with a look of useless limpness by
his side, he shuffled slightly with one foot. The air of

a man stricken and broken down as by some great blow
was upon him. The spectator gazed with the strangest
pang, eagerly, keenly at the face he had never consciously
seen before. Not a doubt of who it was crossed
his mind. He had expected to meet him coldly, perhaps
to be received with doubt and antagonism ; but it
had never occurred to Gus's somewhat superficial but
not unamiable spirit that anything tragical would be
involved in the encounter. Gradually indeed, a sense
of issues more serious than any that had ever occurred
to him before had been invading the kindly self-satisfaction
of his nature. Now he sat and gazed asunder
a spell. They had shown him Sir William's
portrait at the Chase. Was it he that had made the
difference between that self-possessed, dignified, imposing
little statesman and this broken and suffering
old man ? Gus gazed as one who cannot detach his eyes.
The whole scene passed before him like a picture.
The beautiful, anxious woman, gazing with such circles
of trouble round her eyes, watching every step her
husband made ; the beautiful girl, putting her young
companion aside, watching her father creep along
through the sunshine ; the young man — but here Gus's

thoughts broke off short. Was that Paul ? It did not
seem to him like the idea of Paul which he had got
from all that had been said. The young man was not
like any of the others. He had none of that " family
look " which distinguishes even in unlikeness members
of the same race. His face was serious, but not anxious
like the others ; he had an air of kind solicitude, not of
family trouble. Was it Paul? Was it Sir William's
heir ? They passed slowly before him, all the rest of
the faces round looking after them, turned towards
them, making them the centre, as this far more deeply
interested spectator did.

He felt himself drawn after them, he could not tell
how, and stole quite quietly out of the carriage as soon
as they had passed. They were going further on to
another train — a special one — which was going back to
Markham Royal. Gus followed slowly among the other
bystanders, walking as near the principal persons as he
could, following as at a funeral. Was it his doing ?
Was it his fault ? He heard the murmurs of the people
with a strange sense of guiltiness. "He's aged ten
years," he heard one say to another, " since the other
day." " Ah, sons has a deal to answer for," said

another. This speech went buzzing through his mind
like a winged and stinging insect It hurt him, though
nobody could have thought of him in saying it. He
saw the sick man put carefully into the carriage,
watching every movement, and feeling as if he himself
were hurt by the little stumble of his foot as he went
in — the jar of unexpected motion in the train. Lady
Markham passed hiui slowly, as he stood looking with a
woful face, deadly serious and awe-stricken, after the
sufferer, and gave him a grateful glance, seeing what
she thought the sympathy in his eyes. But it was not
sympathy ; it was a far stronger, more personal feeling.
He stood gazing while everything was arranged for Sir
William's comfort, and started to hear his voice coming
out of the midst of the anxious group. It was not
much he said — nothing, indeed, but a " That will do —
that will do ! " half querulous, half grateful. But the
sound gave the looker-on a shock ; it sounded to him
reproachful, almost terrible. He kept standing there,
staring, seeing nothing except the man whom he had
never seen before — whom, for all he knew — was it
possible ? — his letter had killed.

Then suddenly the sound of other voices came to his

ears — a whispering conversation. The two girls were
behind him, not conscious of his presence.

*' Very ill," one was saying. '' Oh, Dolly, yesterday
we thought he would have died. But he is so much
better now. The doctor was quite perplexed ; he said
he never saw anything so momentary ; he could not
call it a fit — it lasted so short a time. He thinks in a
day or two he will be quite well again."

'malice!" said the other's whispering voice, "don't
tell me if it vexes you ; but I will never — never say a
word. Oh, tell me ! I can't think of anything else —
was it Paul ? "

Paul ! " with a tone of indignation. Then the
voice softened. " Dolly, dear, I know why you ask.
Paul has been — very — wilful : he has given us a great
deal of grief. I don't know how to tell you. But it
was not Paul. Oh, there have been so many things !
and he had letters — that worried him."

Was that all ? "

She was standing close by the man into whose heart
these words sank like a stone.

Everybody," said Dolly, '' is worried by letters ;
and now that he is safely here, you and your mamma

will be able to take care of him, and keep everything
that is bad for him out of his way."

I hope so," said Alice doubtfully. And then she
passed Gus Markham so closely that her dress touched
him. He withdrew from the touch hastily, and looked
at her with anxious eyes. If she had known ! but she
did not look at him ; far less had she any thought that
he was involved in the catastrophe that had happened.
He stood quite still, paying no attention to Dolly, watching
them as Alice joined her mother in the carriage.
Then he hurried on to another compartment and got in.
What a home-coming it would be ! — the children that
had been so merry subdued and silenced at once — the big
house that had looked so peaceful, filled full of apprehension
and trouble. He got into one of the carriages
that followed, with a sense that nothing could disassociate
him henceforward from this troubled family.

Dolly, standing wistful on the platform to watch her
friend go away, caught sight of him, too, as the train
passed, and a gleam of Wonder shot over her little pale
face. Yes, they would all wonder, no doubt. It would
seem strange — very strange to everybody. But it was
clear that wherever this party went he must follow
them. His lot was cast in with theirs, once for all.

VOL. II. H

On the morning when Lady Markham went upon that
unfortunate visit to Spears in his shop, which has been
already recorded, both her husband and daughter were
early astir — astir in that way which so often occurs ina
family disturbed by domestic anxiety, when all are
roused and in movement before the ordinary time, yet
all unwilling to begin the day, to meet, to breakfast, to
return once more to painful discussions of a trouble
which no discussions ever diminish. Lady Markham
stole out, thinking that both were asleep, while, on the
other hand, both father and daughter respected her
restlessness, and used what expedients were in their
power to soothe their own.

Sir William had his writing-case, and the despatch-box
which he carried everywhere with him, taken downstairs,

to the big, bare sitting-room, in-^vliich his wife
and he had discussed Paul on the previous night — a
high square room, like a box, as blank and featureless ;
and there sat down, and made a pretence of writing
his letters, — nay, more than a pretence, for his mind
was preternaturally clear, stirred into activity and
wakefulness more strenuous even than its wont, by the
care which was the underwritten of all his thoughts,
and perpetually present with him. He wrote several
letters about business, public and private, in which his
well-known terse and concentrated style was more concentrated
and terse than ever. And by times he laid
down his pen, and breathed a sigh out of the very depths
of his chest, from the bottom of his heart. This was
all the sicrn he save of the distractions which were in
his mi lid. It was much from him. He was not so overwhelmed
as his wife by the suggestion of Paul's possible
entanglement, but he was much more angry, annoyed,
and impatient of the folly which all his wisdom could
not cure. What can be more irritating, confusing, bewildering
to a man who knows himself a power and
influence in the world : not to be able to influence the
being nearest to him to persuade his own son to hear

H 2

reason ! There could not be a greater irony of fate.
And behind this irritation and annoyance there was the
other mystery, which only he knew of — the danger
which menaced Paul in those prospects which Paul held
so lightly, and was ready to throw away on the lightest
inducement. Would he care as little for them if they
were to disappear from him at the will of another, not
his own ? To find himself thus, between two impossibilities
— between his young son whom he could no more
move than he could move a mountain, and another
unknown being who for aught he knew might be as
little manageable as Paul, he was held fast and his mind
driven to bay. He kept himself out of the whirl of
thought and feeling which these perplexities raised by
mere force of will, and sat perfectly self-controlled at the
bare table writing his letters, himself as neat as usual,
every fold of his trim attire in its right place, his tie
tied with all the usual exactitude, his sentences more
sharply cut, more tersely defined than ever. The
suppressed excitement in him acted as a powerful
stimulant, quickening his heart's action, and intensifying
the clearness of his brain ; but now and then he put
down his pen, forgot the imperial problems which were

easier to solve than these private ones, and relieved his
full heart with the labouring of a profound sigh ; then
set to work once more.

The breakfast was brought in before Lady Markham
appeared. Alice had been up in her own room for, she
thought, hours — trying to read, trying to find any little
trivial occupation, wandering to the window to gaze out
blindly, seeing nothing, fulfilling all the tricks of anxiety,
as if she, happy child, had been born to it, or had lived
in no other atmosphere all her days. And jet it was
but a short time since the very a, h, c, of this devouring
absorbing passion, had been unknown to her — so easily
are all its habits learnt. She went down stairs when
the hour for breakfast arrived, and found Sir William
very busy over his papers.

'' Where is your mother ? " he said.
Alice did not know ; but they easily concluded that
being ready early she had gone — it was not far — to see
her boy in his rooms, perhaps to use some argument
with him which had been taught to her in the counsels
of the night.

She will have gone to bring Paul to breakfast,"
Alice said, feeling it was her business to smile, and keep

what show of Liveliness was possible. Then she made
the tea, and going to the window once more stood
looking out, hearing in the silence the scratch of her
father's pen upon the paper, and the bubbling and
boiling of the urn upon the table.

By and by they sat down to breakfast. Lady Markham
possibly was staying with Paul. Perhaps he was late, as
usual, and kept her waiting. It seemed a cheerful token,
a sign of good, to fall back upon Paul's lateness — that
familiar home grievance which they all had laughed and
scolded about a hundred times. To say that he was " late
as usual," that mamma no doubt had found him in bed,
and was waiting for him, lazy fellow, seemed to break the
new and gloomy spell.

Just then, however, a step approached, and someone
knocked ; a servant, and after him, their friend of
yesterday, young Fairfax, very shamefaced and blushing,
who came to say that Lady Markham had sent him,
that she was taking off her hat up stairs, and would be
down directly ; and that he was under her orders to wait
here for something she wanted him to do.

Fairfax blushed to the roots of his hair, and was full
of apologies.

I am so sorry," he said, '' to disturb you ; but Lady
Markham "

'* Bring another cup," said Sir William.

The waiter, who had ushered in Fairfax, had brought
also a letter, which was almost more surprising than the
other visitor.

Sir William, however, was glad of any one who
took him out of himself. He looked at his letter,
but it did not seem important. The postmark was
Markham Royal. There was no one there to give
him uneasiness of any kind. He took it up between
his finger and thumb, as he said — " Bring
another cup."

And then neither of the young people knew anything
more about Sir William till Lady Markham came in.
He retired behind his letter as behind a shield, and
the others talked. Fairfax was somewhat shy. He
described how he had met Lady Markham in the fresh
morning.

"It is the most pleasant time for walking if people
only knew."

Did mamma go to see Paul ? and oh, where is he ?
will not he come ? " said Alice.

The tears got into her voice. Had things gone sofar
that he would refuse to come ?

I don't think she has seen Markham' said young
Fairfax.

Lady Markham had brought him in with her that
she might not be obliged all at once to explain where
she had been. The same reason made her spend a
longer time than was necessary in taking off her hat
and putting on the matronly cap with which she
covered her beautiful hair. She thought with the
simple subtlety of an innocent woman that the conversation
would be in full course when she made her appearance
and any confusion on her own part be concealed.
When she came in her manners were of the conciliatory
and effusive kind which is common to all culprits
desirous of avoiding explanations of equivocal conduct.
I met Mr. Fairfax when I went out, and I met him
again coming back," she said, " and he owned he had
not breakfasted. I hope you are giving him something
to eat, Alice."

Alice looked up anxiously in her mother's eyes.
Where was Paul ? that look inquired, but the glance
with which Lady Markham replied conveyed no

information. She shrank from her child's look, and
sitting down began to talk almost volubly.

I went further than I meant to go ; the morning was
so lovely and everything so still. Is it usually so still,
so vacant, in summer, Mr. Fairfax ? In the country weare
used to it — but to see a place usually so full of
young life in this state of quiet is strange. I met —
scarcely any one," said Lady Markham. " William, you
will have some more tea ? "

Sir William did not make any answer. The letter
which he had been holding up dropped, or rather the
hand which had held it dropped upon his knee ; and he
was leaning back in his chair, Lady Markham could see
with the corner of her eye — but she did not look at him,
not wishing to risk the encounter.

I thought I should be back before you were ready,"
she said. " We are all early this morning. I suppose
it is because an inn is so unlike home. William — Oh ! "
She rose to her feet in sudden alarm. " Are you ill ?
What is the matter ? "

He was leaning back in his chair, his head drooping
against it, his face very pale, his mouth open and his
breath labouring and painful, but he had not lost

command of himself. When his wife rushed to him
he tried to smile.

*' Feeling — faint' he said, feebly.

It was a weakness to which he had been subject
before. While they hurried to get wine, eau-de-cologne,
all the usual restoratives, he, still keeping up a vestige
of a smile, did his best to fold up the letter he was
holding, and groped about for the envelope.

I will put it away," his wife said ; but he made a
slight negative movement of his head and succeeded in
pushing it into a letter-case, which he always carried.
The envelope had dropped on the floor. Who .thought
anything of it? He had things to move him quite
sufficient to account for any disturbance of the heart
without seeking for further causes. After a while the
faintness passed off, his breathing improved, his heart
began to beat naturally, and he came, or seemed to
come, to himself. When he went up stairs with Lady
Markham's anxious attendance, Alice and the young
man remained alone. These few minutes had done as
much as weeks generally do towards the growing
acquaintance of these two young persons. Fairfax had
run hither and thither to get whatever they wanted.

He had supported Sir "VVilliara up stairs. He had
shared in the alarm, the confusion, the trouble of the
moment. Alice came down with him after her father
had been established in his room, to think of the
civilities which were due to a stranger. The half-eaten
meal on the table, the confusion of chairs, the air of
human trouble and agitation in the place had already
made the bare room more Eke an inhabited house.
Alice faintly begged her companion to take his place
again.

Mamma will come presently. He will want nothing
but quiet and rest : he has been — worried — you
know."

Yes," said Fairfax ; '' it throws a light upon some
things I never thought of before. My people are robust,
fortunately ; they are only uncles and aunts, who don't
suffer in the same way as one's parents, I suppose. But,
bliss Markham, if any one had cared as much for me —
I have given a great deal more cause for anxiety than
your brother has done. T^Tien I see how you are all
upset it makes me blush for myself."

Oh, Mr. Fairfax, it is so kind, so brood of you to
say so."

Is it ? " he said, with genuine surprise ; " now I
wonder why ? There is no goodness about it, I fear,
one way or the other. Only there are lots of us that
don't realise — that can't understand."

Alice's heart grew quite light. She considered that
this independent testimony was as good as a vindication
of Paul. A young man, a comrade, must know all about
him, that was self-evident; and when he declared so
distinctly Paul's superiority to himself what doubt could
there be that such an uncalled, generous witness must
be trustworthy ? She could have laughed, or cried for
pleasure.

I should like mamma to hear you," she said. " I
suppose it is because he is so much to us all that we are
so foolish. You don't think he will really go away ?
That is what worries papa. He wants him to go into
parliament, and public life."
Fairfax laughed.

He is a lucky fellow. It is not possible to imagine
that he could willingly throw away all these chances ;
but if I can answer for Markham's heart I can't answer
for his head, Miss Markham. The one is as right as a
compass, but the other is packed full of crotchets I must

allow ; and what he may be able to do in that way, how
far he may go, I would not undertake to say."

Alice's countenance fell, then brio-tenet faintly asrain
with a little light of opposition.

You may call them crotchets, Mr. Fairfax, but I am
sure Paul's ideas are convictions, and what can he do
but follow them out ? "

"Ah, that is giving up the question," said the other.
I believe they are convictions ; but you may be
convinced of a foolish thing as well as a wise one."

'' What he says is not foolish. I do not agree with it,"
said Alice, " but it is fine, it is noble ; he would do what
our Lord says, give up everything for the poor."

Fairfax shook his head.

'' It sounds very fine in that way, Miss Markham ; but
that is not how Paul puts it. It is not giving to the
poor, but sharing with his equals that is his thought, and
I do not think you would like that. If they all had
their share tomorrow, half would have two shares next
day — at least so everybody says," he went on with a laugh
"all the philosophers ; and I am sure Paul would have
no share at all. He would have given it away to' somebody
who persuaded him that he had not drawn a good

lot. ' Take it,' he would say, ' I can starve better than
you can,' for he is a fine aristocrat, our friend Paul."

Do you call that being an aristocrat ? "

"To be sure ; isn't it ? A poor little roturier like
myself has not the knack of it. I should say, ' Take a
cut at mine,' as if it was an orange, and hack at it
myself among the rest. But Markham does things with
a grand air. He will always have it ; indeed, I think
that when he had got his share to which he would allow
he had an indisputable right, he would prefer to give it
away in a lordly manner, and keep nothing but his
magnanimity. That is what he is doing now."

To have such an audience as Alice, with that qtIow of
tender gratitude and pleasure in her eyes, looking up to
him, fixed upon his face, her smile following every word
of this pretended impartial and philosophical description,
was worth any man's while. He was tempted to go on
romancing about Paul, giving him not only the praise
he felt his due, but a great deal more, in order to secure
a little longer that rapt attention. But perhaps it was
better to stop, and leave her time enough to say with
her hands clasped, and her whole soul in her look —

Mr. Fairfax, you make me very happy. They have

whispered things to mamma which have made her
wretched ; but it is ' nothing but his magnanimity : '
that was what you said ? "

Lady Markham opened the door, and came into the
room before Fairfax could reply. She was preoccupied,
and took no notice of the conversation that was croinor on.

'' Your father has fallen asleep' she said ; " he is very
much exhausted. Oh, how I wish we had not left home."
Then she perceived Fairfax, and added with a change of
tone, " You have had no breakfast. Alice, I thought
you would attend to Mr. Fairfax."

''Oh!" cried Alice, ''do you think he cares about
breakfast when we are in such trouble ? He has been
telling me about Paul. Mamma, listen to him. He
must know. He says it is all Paul's magnanimity —
that was the word."

Oh, my dear, my dear," cried Lady Markham, " it is
my fault. I have made everything worse. Oh ! why
will women interfere ? We ought to have stayed at
home, and had patience. What can we do one way or
another ? I have behaved like a fool and got my boy
into more trouble. And now your father. What shall
we do if he is ill too ? "

'' Mamma, it is impossible that you can be to blame."

'' Quite impossible ! " cried Fairfax. What gave him
any right to speak ? Yet they took it as a matter of
course. 'rand pardon me, Lady Markham, I do not
think there is any one much to blame. There is no
harm in it at all. If you could but see behind the scenes
as I do ! Spears is an enthusiast — say a fanatic ; he
believes all he says, and Paul believes him and thinks he
thinks with him ; but he does not altogether ; and they
will differ more and more as time goes on. Patience,
and it will come right."

"Ah, if I could have had patience! Do you know
what anxiety means ? " said Lady Markham. "It is a
determination not to be unhappy. What does it matter
whether I am happy or not — I have been very happy
all my life. I ought to bear it, and wait till God sends
a cure ; but we would not, Alice — we would rush into it,
knowing nothing, meddling. Oh, why should women
interfere ! "

This strained Alice's sense of natural justice.

Have not women as much to do with it as men ? "
she said.

Lady Markham shook her head.

1 have made things worse — I have made everything
worse. Mr. Fairfax, will you go and tell Paul that his
father is ill ? Oh no, I have no right to ask you to take
so much trouble ; but you are kind, I know. You have
a mother who would go out of her senses too, if anything
was amiss. When you tell her she will explain it all to
you ; how foolish, how foolish a woman can be. Go and
tell him that his father is ill. His father is not a
man to be ill for nothing. He will see it is no Hight
matter when he knows that his father is ill. There is
something — a little — the matter with Sir William's
heart — not much, thank God; but we ought to spare
him. Will you tell Paul ? — but AHce, Alice, how could
you be so careless, Mr. Fairfax has had no breakfast ! "

Lady Markham rose hastily, and drew a chair to the
table, and turned to him, pointing to it, with a tremulous
smile about her mouth, though the tears were standing
in her eyes.

Was it possible that it was only yesterday he had
come to know them ? He hurried out with his message,
quite agitated by the sight of this family trouble. It
was no affair of his, and he had no mother as Lady
Markham suggested, to make him understand ; but his

VOL. II. I

heart seemed to be suddenly filled up like an empty
vessel with these new people's affairs. He tried to laugh
at himself, but stopped in the midst of the effort, growing
portentously grave. Why should he laugh ? If Sir
William was ill, and Paul on the point of abandoning
his natural position and his native country on a wild-goose
chase, with which in all probability he would soon
be utterly disgusted, circumstances were very grave for
the Markham family. Perhaps Fairfax felt it all the
more strongly that he in his own person had no family
to abandon. He felt the want so much that he wondered
all the more at one who, with all these pleasant things
belonging to him, should be willing to throw up everything,
and go off into the wilds with Spears — with
Spears ! he repeated to himself with indignant, yet
half-amused surprise. He did not know anything about
Janet, for the very good reason that till this morning
there had been nothing to know.

Fairfax walked very rapidly to Paul's college, but did
not find him. As he however came slowly back again
across the deserted quadrangle, he met young Markham
coming gloomily along, his head down, and his countenance
obscured. There was a sort of dull decision in

Paul's aspect, as if all his affairs had been settled at a
stroke, as if the hopes and uncertainties of ordinary life
were over for him. He who held his head so high,
whose step was so light and elastic with all the rapidity
of a visionary, came along now crushing the grass with
a heavy foot, all the lightness and youthfulness gone out
of him. Fairfax looked at him with an impulse of
wonder. This favourite of fortune, so much beloved,
important to so many, with the. world at his feet, what
could have put so much perverseness into his mind that
he, of all men in the world, should be discontented with
his lot ! How wonderful it was 1 Paul did not want to
be accosted, to be disturbed in his gloomy thoughts by
any frivolous interruption. He was about to pass with
a sullen nod when Fairfax stopped him against his ^vill.

Markham, I am sent to tell you that your father
is ill."

Paul stopped, and regarded him with sudden anger.

What the devil," he said, with altogether uncalled-for
indignation, " have you to do with my affairs ? "

Nothing in the world ; but your father has been
taken ill at the hotel," said Fairfax. His cheek flushed,
too, but he subdued himself "Lady Markham sent me

I 2

to tell you. I have nothing to do with it," he said ; then
went on, while the other stood and glared at him.
Fairfax felt the blood boiling in his veins ; but to quarrel
with the undutiful son was not in his consigne. A man
with three such people hanging (it seemed) their happiness
on his wayward conclusions : his father ill, his
mother with those beautiful eyes all strained with
anxiety ; his sister — Fairfax's eyes grew dim, as with a
dazzlement of light, as he seemed to see before him Alice,
with her head raised, her hands clasped, her blue eyes
full of emotion — all for Paul. Good heavens ! who dared
speak of equality ? This fellow, who was ready to share
everything with his neighbours — how insensible he was
to all those happiness which he could not share.

Paul did not at first obey the call thus sent to him.
He lingered, angry that his friend should interfere as he
said. He knew it was not interference, but the pride
which was so strong in him, notwithstanding all his
theories, resented haughtily the intrusion of a stranger
into his family. Paul's theory was far from being complete.
He was ready himself to abandon all he possessed,
and to assert it as a necessity that every honest man
should do the like, receive his share and nothing more ;
but he did not contemplate the idea of a general descent
of his family into the wider ranks of common brotherhood.
That his father should share his ideas, and resign
his wealth and position, was a thing incredible he well
knew ; and curiously enough he had never thought of it.
Whatever happened in the way of levelling,, it had never

seriously occurred to him to think that the Markhams
would be as the Spears, as the grocers or the hatters.
(Grocers and hatters by the way are always excluded in
visionary schemes of revolution. One must draw a line
somewhere; and both the rich and poor draw it at
the shopkeeper.) Such a thing could not be ; it was
impossible. Were there a republic proclaimed in
England tomorrow, was there a general confiscation
and redistribution of everything, making all men the
same, the Markhams could not be as the Spears. It
was not possible. ^

But still more hotly, as in the presence of real danger,
Paul's pride stood up against the possibility of the
Markhams being as the Fairfax.

Richard Fairfax was his friend ; he was a gentleman —
yes, no doubt, in himself a gentleman — but not as the
Markhams were gentlemen. He was a nobody ; he was
the son of a nobody. He did not belong to the Fairfax
of the north or of the south. He had a good name, but
no more. What had such a fellow to do in Alice
Markham's company? Spears at the Chase was an
eccentricity of his own, which made Paul feel himself
above prejudice, and nobly superior to the conventional

maxims of society ; but Fairfax there affronted his pride.
The two things were quite different. The same rules
did not seem to apply to the noble working man, who
was above them, as to the gentleman who was only a
gentleman in his own right. That his mother should
have formed a kind of alliance with this young man
(though his own friend) irritated him beyond measure.
Women were so easily taken in. Good manners, and a
look of good breeding — so easily acquired nowadays
when everybody is formed in the same mould, and all
kinds of people can achieve the hall-mark of public
schools and universities, — was enough to take in a
woman. Had Paul been consulted, no such person
should have entered the sacred precincts.

Yet Paul was a democrat, on the verge of surrendering
everything, and throwing in his fortunes with a little
communistic party ! The inconsistency did not strike
him, or if it ever stole across his mind, he repelled the
consciousness with a hot protestation within himself that
it was not at all the same thing. That Spears should
be his equal was a thing to fight for, a thing that could
never derange the inborn sense of aristocracy ; but that
Fairfax, who was so near his equal, should be his equal

therein lies the danger, which instinct seizes upon,
which rouses pride in arms.

This proud distaste and discontent occupied his mind
at first to the exclusion of every other feeling. And
when that faded, it may be allowed that Paul had some
cause for a disinclination to see his mother. What had
she done ? She had dragged down upon his head the
humble roof under which he had intended to find shelter.
She had thrown him into the arms of those with whom
indeed he was eager to consort, but whose embrace was
no way attractive — nay, was repulsive to him. She
had changed all his circumstances, vulgarised his
plans, degraded him from the rank of a political
apostle into that of a wretched besotted lover. Young
men who are not in love, and in whom the intellect
predominates, are apt to be very hard upon what they
consider the delusion, the incredible folly of such a
passion. To sacrifice freedom, personal independence,
the unencumbered lightness of manhood, for the sake
of a woman, seems to them the most ridiculous of
mockeries until the moment comes when they share it.
This was Paul's way of thinking. It was an outrage to
his nature and mental powers to make him appear to

be doing that for Janet Spears which he was doing from
the highest principle. And this was what his mother,
with her womanish interpretation of his high aims and
wishes, had made appear. He could not forgive her;
and in this he was not without reason. He made many
efforts before he could think with patience of the strange
morning's work which had changed everything for him.
No, he could not go to her so soon. He went to his
rooms and shut himself in, sitting down among his
books like any Roman among any ruins. Read ! why
should he read ? These were useless tools of an old
world, which he was about throwing off. " Honours ! "
what were they to him ? The schools and the struggle
had retreated into dim distance. A degree would be of
far less consequence to him than a gun, and all his
studies not worth half so much as the simplest lesson of
his country breeding. To sit there, however, among all
those relics of a time which was over, which had no
more hold upon him, was gloomy work. And every
refuge seemed taken from him. He did not want to goto
the rooms of any other 'man" where he might meet
Fairfax. He could not go back to Spears ; his heart
revolted at the thought of going (as habit made him call

the place where his parents were) home. He was walking
about in this gloomy way, now gazing out of one
window, now out of another, when a little tap came to
his door, a light foot, a soft voice, and agitated face.

Oh, Paul, may I come in ? " Alice said. '' Have you
not seen Mr. Fairfax ? He was to tell you papa was ill.
We want you — oh, we want you, Paul."

'what has Fairfax got to do with it?" growled
Paul.

Mr. Fairfax ! Oh, nothing, but that he was so
kind ; he helped papa up stairs. He came for you when
mamma sent him. I do not know what we should have
done without him ; for — you were not there, Paul ! "

Not much wonder if I was not there I "

Why ? Mamma does nothing but blame herself.
She cries and says we should not have come. Oh, Paul !
and papa, I told you, has had one of his faints. Will
you come ? " cried Alice, moved to tears, yet flushing
high with a generous impatience ; " or are we to be left
to shift for ourselves ? "

She deserves it," he said. '' What had she to do
with it ? Surely I am old enough to manage my own
affairs."

Is it mamma you mean by she ? Then stay— or go
where you like. Oh, how dare you ! " cried Alice,
wildly angry. " Mamma I " This stung her so that she
went to the door hurriedly, going away ; but that little
flash of wrath was soon over. She stopped and turned
round upon him, making another appeal. " You don't
deserve that we should care for you ; but we do care for
you," she said. '' Oh, Paul ! when I tell you papa has
had one of his faints — for what ? because to think of you
going away, forsaking us, giving up home, and your own
place, and the people that you ought to care for, was
more than he could bear. Paul ! how can you leave us —
leave Markham and everything you were once fond of —
leave your duty, and the place you were born to ? "

My dear Utile Alice," he said, with a smile, glad to
conceal a little melting of his own heart which was
beyond his power of resisting, by this fine superiority,
speak of things you understand."

Then Alice flashed upon him with all the visionary
vehemence of a girl in her own defence.

"How should I not understand ?" she cried, 'ram
I so stupid ? It is you who make yourself Httle,
pretending to despise us girls. What is there to despise

in US ? We do not fill our head with pride and fancies
like you. We love those who belong to us, and serve
them, and do our duty as we know how. It is not we
who leave our old father to suffer, or tear our mother's
heart in two. It is not we that turn peace into trouble.
There you stand," cried Alice, " a man ! fit to be in
parliament making the laws better — fit to be doing-something
for them that belong to you, after learning,
learning all your life, doing nothing but learn, that you
might be good for something. And now, all you think
you are good for is to emigrate, like the poor Irish. Is
that all you are good for ? Then you ought to be
humble, and not dare to turn round and sneer and tellus
to speak of things we understand. Understand ! I
understand that if you can do nothing better than that
if, after all, you can only betray us and forsake us, and
be no use, no help to any one, it is a shame ! "

Who can doubt that Alice's eloquence was broken
with sobs, and her fury all blind with tears ? She would
not, however, for pride, let him see them fall, but
turned away from the door with passionate haste, and
flew down the deserted staircase, swallowing her sobs as
best she could, and dashing away the hasty torrent from

her eyes. She heard him laugh as she got out into the
air in all her agitation, and this sound stung Alice to
the heart.

But if she had known it, Paul's laugh was like the
ploughboy's whistle to keep his courage up. He had
not expected any such onslaught, and he was not
insensible to it, any more than she was to his scorn.
For, after all, he did not in the least despise his sister,
though it was so handy to pretend to do so. When he
was left again among his ruins, though he stimulated
himself, as by a sickly trumpet note of pretended victory
by that laugh, Paul did not feel half so grand a
personage as he could have wished, and for the next
half hour or so there came and stabbed at him a Httle
array of by no means pleasant thoughts.

In the afternoon, after some hours had elapsed, Paul
walked into his father's room with a little air of defiance,
and without any apologies. Sir William was seated in
an easy chair, looking aged and worn.

I am very sorry to hear that you have been ill, sir,"
his son said.

"Yes, I have been ill," said Sir William, " but it will
pass off. I think the best thing for me is to get home."

I should not think you could be very comfortable
here' Paul said.

His mother was in the room, and his grievance
against her rose up bitterly, and quenched the softer
feeling which had moved him at sight of his father's
pale face.

It would perhaps have been better that we had not
come. There are many things — that I must see after —
in your interests. Paul, do you mean to come home
with us ? Whatever you may do hereafter, it would be
best for you to come home now. "

There was a momentary pause.

Sir William put forward no arguments, not even that
of his own condition — and used no reproaches. But
behind him appeared Lady Markham's face, pale and
pathetic with entreaty. Her eyes were fixed upon
her son with a look which he could scarcely withstand.
And therefore Paul set his face like a rock, and would
not yield.

I don't see what good it would do, sir," he said.
You know my unalterable resolution. You know my
principles, which are so much at variance with yours,
and would prevent me from ever taking the position

you wish. Why should we worry each other since
we can't agree ? Besides, other circumstances have
arisen," he said, with a vengeful glance at his
mother. " But before I sail I shall certainly come
to say good-bye."

His mother's faint call after him, " Paul ! Paul ! "
which sounded like a cry of despair, caught at his very
heart, but did not bring him back. His feet felt like
lead as he went down the stairs. Almost they would
not carry him from everything that was in reality most
dear to him ; but the more nature held him back the
more determined was his obstinate will to go. He would
come back to say good-bye before he sailed. Was he
leaving himself a place of repentance ? But at present,
though he was wretched, though his heart seemed to
have an arrow through it, and his feet were like lead,
he would not stay.

This was how it came about that Sir William appeared
at Birtwood station, leaning upon the arm of a young
man who was not his son. After Paul's visit he had
another attack of faintness; and Fairfax, who came
back in the evening to put himself at the disposal of the
ladies, found them in great agitation, eager to get home

again, yet half afraid to venture on the journey. He
came back in the morning to help them to get their
patient to the railway ; and when they got there, Sir
William, feeling the advantage of his arm, so held by
him, that without either invitation or preparation, the
young man, so strangely united to these strangers came
with them, not a word being said on the subject. He had
not even a ticket, nor the smallest provision for a
visit. What of that ? The young fellow was of that
light heart and easy temper to which no adventure

Paul Markham went back to his rooms, and sat
down again amid the ruins. His heart was as heaven
his bosom as a hip of lead. It weighed upon him,
hindered his breathing, refused to rise or to beat more
lightly, let him do what he would. He had taken
down his pictures, his china, all that he had thought
luxurious, from his walls honos before. Nothing remained
of aU his decorations which he had once loved
but a copy of Albert Durer's Melancholia, which he had
kept, thinking it symbolical. Besides, it was only
a photograph. Had it been an original print, worth a
great deal more than its weight in gold, he would not
have thought himself at Liberty to keep it. He looked
round upon his books with gloomy eyes. Ruins —
nothing but ruins — all around him ! What was the

VOL. II. K

good of them ? They had done him all the service
they were capable of, and in his life there was no
further place for them. No schools now for him, no
honours, no need of endless philosophical hair-splitting,
this one's theory of being, that one's of knowing. He
was going to put all that babble away. There were a
few that he might take with him. Theocritus his
Idylls ; grey old Hesiod, that antique husbandman ;
Plato in his Republic. But even Plato, what was the
good of him, with all his costly paraphernalia of a new
society ? Spears would do it all with much less trouble.
No long education would be wanted for his rulers — if,
indeed, any rulers should be needed. Less trouble !
After all, when he came to think of it, it was by no
means sure that Spears's process was less painful, less
costly than Plato's. Himself, for example. Would
every pioneer who joined their ranks, every leader
among them, be obliged to pay his footing as dearly as
Paul had done ? To turn his back upon his father and
mother, to cast all his antecedents to the winds, everything,
from filial affection to the books upon his shelves
it could not be said that this was a cheap or easy
probation.

He sat thus for he did not know how long, the sunshine
of the August afternoon getting round the corner
and streaming straight in, inquisitive and troublesome.
What were they doing now at the inn ? Sir William
had been very gentle ; he had not said a word of blame.
His tone, his looks, his very weakness had been conciliatory.
Paul, when he covered his eyes with his
hands, seemed to see that scene again, and twinges
came to his heart, sudden impulses to get up and go to
them — to go at least to the place and ask after his
father. There are temptations to do right as well as
to do wrong. Impulses came to him like little good
angels pulling at his sleeve, entreating him to come ;
but alas ! it is always more easy to resist temptations todo
well than to do ill. Once or twice he was so far
moved that he got up from his chair ; but always sat
down again after a blank look from the window over
the deserted quadrangle and the parched trees. Why
should he go ? It would but raise vain hopes in them
that he meant to yield : and he did not mean to yield.
This kept him a prisoner in his room ; for if he did not
go there, where should he go ? He paid no attention to
the hour of dinner. He could not, he felt, have gone

K 2

to Hall where there was the little dinner for the scanty
summer contingent, the " men " who were ** staying upto
read." Even these heroes were dropping away
daily, and at the best of times the little group in a
place which held so many was depressing ; and Paul
did not want to dine — the common offices of life were
disgusting and distasteful to him. He roused himself
to go out at last when the daylight had begun to wane.
There was to be a meeting that night in the shop
of Spears, of the people who were going with them
to found the new colony — for to this their plan of
emigration had grown ; but it was still too early for
that. The shadows were lengthening, the light almost
level, when Paul came out. He did not know where to
go ; he wandered through the streets where the townspeople
were all about enjoying the beautiful evening,
and strolled heedlessly, not caring where he went,
towards the inn. He could not get out of his mind the
recollection of the little party who would get no good
of the beautiful evening. His mother and Alice, like
most mothers and sisters, had always imagined themselves
to be 'every fond of Oxford." They had liked
to hear of all its habits, and foolish, youthful ways — the

nightly flights from the proctors, the comers where
hodie hairbreadth 'scape had been made, the 'high"
and the "Broad," and all that innocent slang which a
happy boy pours forth on his first introduction to these
delights. It had always been an excitement, a delight
to them to come here. Now he could not but think of
them shut up in that bare, gloomy room, with the high,
pale walls, and long green curtains. Oh, how they
plucked at his sleeve and at his heart, those persuading
angels ! How he was tempted to go back again to bid
bygones be bygones, to forgive everything (this was his
way of putting it) ! But. no. Had it been the other
kind of angel leading him to another kind of presence
most likely the young man would not have stood out
half so bravely. He strolled down to the river where
one or two melancholy " men " in boats were keeping
themselves as retired as possible from the splashing of
the released shopboys, and the still more uncomfortable
vicinity of the town boats, which were rowed almost as
well as the 'Rarity. The sky was all rosy with sunset,
glowing over the long reflections in the water, touching •
the greenness of the banks and trees into a fuller tint,
and making more blue, with all those contrasting tints

of rose, the blueness of the sky. The soft summer
evening, with a gentle exhaustion in it — sweet langour,
yet relief after the heat and work of the day — the soft
plash of the oars, the voices all harmonised by the
warm air, the movement and simple enjoyment about,
were all like so many reproaches to him. How they
would have liked to walk with him, to laugh softly
back to every sound of pleasure, to talk of everything.
Paul said to himself that all that was over. It was a
pity for Alice to be shut up in a dingy room, but tomorrow
she would be at home among their own woods,
and what would it matter ? As for himself, it must be
his henceforward to tread the stern path of a higher
duty — alone.

Paul met with one or two interruptions on the way.
He saw Fairfax at a distance, and saw that he avoided
him, turning quickly away; and he met one or two
others of those who were " staying up to read." Finally
he met a being of a different order, less easy to separate
himself from, a young Don, who turned and walked
with him, anxiously intimating that it was quite immaterial
which way he went, — a young man, not much
older than Paul himself, but cultivated to the very

finger-tips, and anxious to exercise a good influence if
that might prove possible. This new companion gave
him a stab unawares by asking if it was tine what he
had heard, that Sir William Markham was ill ? Even
in a deserted college in the midst of the long vacation,
when there happens to be a tragic chapter of Hfe going
on, some echo of it will get abroad. The young Don
was very modest, and anxious not to offend or intrude
upon any " man " in trouble ; but yet he would have
been glad could he have exercised a good influence.
They walked along the river bank while the sunset faded
out of the west, and Paul at last acknowledged the
relief of companionship by plunging forth into a statement
of his own intentions which filled his auditor with
horror and dismay. A man who did not intend to take
his degree was as a lost soul to the young Don. But
even in these appalling circumstances he could not be
impolite. He listened with gentle disapproval and
regret, shaking his head now and then, yet saying softly,
I see what you mean," when Paul poured forth a
passionate statement of his difficulties, his sense of the
injustice of his own position, his hoiTor at the corruption
and falsehood of the world, and determination never to

sanction, never to accept in his own person the cruel
advantages to which he had been born. After all that
had come and gone it was a great ease to the young
revolutionary, upon such a verge of high devotion yet
despair as. he was, to make one impassioned assertion of
his principles, the higher rule of his conduct. Probably
the college, too, and all the men would hear that it was
for the love of Spears' s daughter that he was throwing
his life away. He was glad (when he came to think of
it) of this chance of setting himself right. " I see what
you mean," said the young Don. He would have said
the same thing with the same regretful air, non-argumentative
and sympathetic, yet with his own
opinion in the background, had Paul poured into his ear
a confession of passionate attachment for Janet Spears.
He understood what political enthusiasm was, and he
knew that the world might be well lost for love, though
he did not approve either of these passions. In either
case he would have been very glad to have established
a good influence over the man thus carried away,
whether by the head or the heart. Paul, however, if he
did not come under any good influence, was solaced by
his own outburst. He got cooler as they turned back

towards the towers now rising dimly into the cooled and
softened atmosphere of the night, and the glimmer of
the friendly lights.

It was a disappointment to the young Don when his
companion left him abruptly, long before they reached
their college. He had meant to be very kind to him
at this violent crisis of life, and who could tell, perhaps
to win him back to safer views — at least to put before
him so forcibly the absolute necessity of taking his
degree that passion itself would be forced to pause.
But Paul did not give him this chance. He said a
hurried good-night when they reached the spot at which
he had met his mother in the morning, the point at
which the picturesque and graceful old street was
crossed by the line of uneven thoroughfares, in which
Spears's house lay. The young Don looked after him in
surprise and disappointment as he walked away. He
shook his head. He would not doubt the authenticity
of Paul's confession of faith, but the low street breathed
out of it a chill of suspicion. He could understand
anything that was theoretical however wrong-headed,
but Spears's shop and the street in which it stood was
a great deal more difficult to understand.

Paul sped along, relieved of the immediate pressure
on his heart, and more determined than ever in his
resolution. He had said little in the morning in
answer to Spears's question. He had declared that it
was not love alone which had brought him there ; that
there had been nothing feigned in his enthusiasm for
that teaching in which the salvation of the world he
believed would be found to lie ; but further he had
said nothing. And Spears had been too much relieved
on his own account and, was too delicate on his child's,
to pursue the subject. To tell the truth, the demagogue,
though the kindest of fathers, had not been
delighted by the thought that his own favourite disciple,
his captive aristocrat, the young hero whom he had
won out of the enemy's ranks, and who was his pride,
had been all the time only his daughter's lover. The
thought had hurt and humbled him. That Paul might
love Janet in the second place, might have learned to
love her after his introduction to the shop, was a different
matter. The gratification of recovering his own
place and influence drove the other question from his
mind ; and by the time it recurred to him, the delicacy
of a mind full of natural refinement had resumed its

sway. It was for the lover to open this subject, not
the girl or her friends. And though he wondered a
little that Paul said nothing more to him, he asked no
further question. It was a relief to Paul, on the other
hand, not to be called to account. The evil day was
defended at least, if no more, and he was very glad to
put it off, to wait for what might happen, to hope
perhaps that after all nothing would happen. Paul did
not know what had passed or what his mother had said.
Her own broken and tremulous confession of wrong,
and Janet's consciousness, had been his only guides.
He had thought himself for the moment bound to
Janet ; but perhaps things had not gone so far as he
thought ; and though he was determined to hold firmly
to any bond of honour that might hold him, even
though it were not of his own making, yet the sense
that his freedom was still intact was an unspeakable
relief to him. Since then he had managed 1o forget
Janet ; but when he turned his face towards her home
it was not so easy to continue to forget. The twilight
was brightened by the twinkle of the lamps all the way
down the vista of the street, and by a dimmer light
here and there from a window. The shutters had been

put up in Spears's shop, but the door was open, and in
the doorway, faintly indicated by the light behind, stood
some one looking out. Paul knew, before he could see,
who it was. She was looking out for him. It is hard
to find our arrival uncared for by those whom we want
to see, but it is, if not more hard, at least far more
embarrassing, to find ourselves eagerly looked for by those
whom we have no wish to see. Paul's heart sank when
he saw the girl, with the long lines of her black gown
filling the doorway, leaning out her graceful shoulders
and fair head in an attitude of anxious expectation
looking for him. What could he say to her ? The
return of her image thus suddenly thrust before him
filled him with impatience and annoyance. Yet he
could not withdraw himself; he went on without a
pause, wondering with a troubled mind how far his
mother had committed him, what she expected ; what
she wanted, this girl who was no heroine, no ideal
woman, but only Janet Spears.

Her eyes drooped as he came forward, with a shyness
which had in it something of finer feeling than Janet
had yet known. He was very dazzling to her in the
light of his social superiority. A gentleman 1 Janet

had heard all her life that a gentleman was the work
of nature, not of circumstance, that those who arrogated
the title to themselves had often far less right to bear
it than the working men whom they scorned ; but all
these theories lead passed lightly over her. She knew
the difference. They might talk what stuff they liked,
but that would not make one of them a Sir — a man
whose wife would be " my Lady," a dazzling personage
who drove in his carriage, who had horses to ride, and
men in livery to walk behind him. The other was all
talk ! fudge ! rubbish ! but these things were realities.
She watched him coming down the street in the grey
twilight, in the faint yellow of the lamps. His very
walk was different, the way in which he held his
arms, not to speak of his clothes, of which even the
Sunday clothes of the others bore but the faintest resemblance.
Janet's nature, such as it was, prostrated
itself before the finest thing, the highest thing she
knew. And if this is noble in other matters, why not
in the most important of all ? If it is a sign of an
elevated soul to seek the best and loftiest, why not in a
husband ? Janet did not stand upon logic, yet her
logic here was far better practically than her father's.

She recognised Paul without a moment's hesitation as
the best thing within her reach, and why should not she
put forth her entire powers to gain the perfection she
sought ?

"they have not come yet, Mr. — Paul," said Janet,
casting down her eyes.

She had always called him Mr. Markham before ; but
she could not help hoping that now he would tenderly
reprove her for the previous title, and bid her call him
by his Christian name. Was not this the first step in
lovers' intimacy ? But this was not what happened.
It struck Paul disagreeably to hear his name at all, even
with the Mr. before it. His mind rebelled at this half
appropriation of him. He could not help feeling
that it was cowardly of him to be rough with Janet,
who had no power of defending herself ; but he could
not help it. He brushed past her with a half-sensation
of disgust.

Haven't they ? " he said ; ''nevermind. I dare say
your father is in."

Father is not in, Mr. Paul. He's gone to tell Fraser,
the Scotchman, to come. He didn't know there was a
meeting. I am the only one that is in to keep the

house. The girls have gone to the circus — did you
know there was a circus ? — but I." said Janet, " I don't
care for such things. I've stayed at home."

Then there was a pause. Paul had gone into the
shop, which was swept, and arranged with benches, and
a table in the middle, for the emigrants' meeting, and
Janet following him so far as to stand in the inner
instead of the outer doorway, stood gazing at him by the
imperfect light of the lamp. How could she help
gazing at him ? She expected him to say something.
This was not how he had looked at her in the morning.
Poor Janet was disappointed to the bottom of
her heart.

That's a pity," said Paul, brusquely. " If I had
known Spears would not be here I should not have come
so soon. I don't see why he should keep me waiting
for him. I have a thousand things to do ; all my time
is taken up. I might have been with my father, who is
ill, if I had not come here."

''Oh, is he ill?" said Janet. Her eyes grew bigger
in the dim light gazing at him. " It must be very
strange to be a gentleman's son like that," she added
softly ; " and to think what a difference it might make

all at once if And you never can tell what may

happen," she concluded with a sigh of excitement. '' I
don't wonder you're in a way "

*' Am I in a way ? I don't think so," said Paul. " I
hope there is nothing much the matter with my father,"
he added, after a little pause.

Oh ! " said Janet, disappointed ; but she added
'* There will be some time. Some time or other you
will be a great man, with a title and all that property.
Oh, I wanted to say one thing to you before those men
come. What in the world have you to do with them,
Mr. Paul ? They may think themselves iJl-used, but
you can't think yourself ill-used. Why should you go
away when you have everything, everything you can set
your face to, at home ? Plenty of money, and a grand
house, and horses and carriages, and all sorts of things.
You can understand folks doing it that have nothing ;
but a gentleman like you that only need to wish and
have, whatever can you want to emigrate for ? " Janet
cried.

Spears entered the shop suddenly, before Janet had
quite ended her astonishing address. If his dog had
offered him advice Paul could scarcely have been more
surprised. He was standing at one end of the shop
gazing at her, his eyes wide opened with surprise, and
consternation in his mind, when her father came in.
Spears was not so much astonished as Paul was. He
saw his daughter standing in the doorway, her colourless
face a little flushed by her earnestness, and gaining
much in beauty from that heightened tint, and from the

•. CD '

meaning in it. Spears thought within himself that it was
true what all the romancers said, that there was nothing
like love for embellishing a woman, and that his Janet
had never looked so handsome before. But that was
all. He had come in by a back way, bringing with him
VOL. ir. L

the Scotchman, Fraser, who was to be one of the
colonists, and therefore could not make any remark upon
the conjunction of these two, or upon the few words he
heard her saying. What so natural as that she should
be found lingering about the place where Paul Alas
expected, or that he should take her opinion, however
foolish it might be ?

Come, you two," Spears said, good-humouredly, " no
more of this — there is a time for everything ; " and
Janet, with a start, with one anxious look at Paul to
see what effect her eloquence was having, went
slowly away.

Paul had been profoundly astonished by what she
said. He could not understand it. She to bid him
remain at home ! — she to ask him with fervour, and
almost indignation, what he wanted to emigrate for ! —
she, her father's daughter, to remind him of those
advantages which her father denounced ! Paul felt
himself utterly bewildered by what she said. There
was nothing in him which helped him to an understanding
of Janet's real meaning. That her severely practical mind
regarded her father's creed as simple folly and big words
miofht have been made credible to him : but that Janet

had a distinct determination, rapidly formed, but of the
most absolute force, not to permit himself — him — Paul
to give up any advantages which she had the hope of
sharing — that she was determined to taste the sweets
which he had set his foolish heart on thronging away — no
idea of this entered into his mind. Her warning look
the little gesture of leave-taking which she made
as she went away, and into which she managed to
convey the same warning — overwhelmed him with
amazement. What did she mean ? He might have
thought there was some secret plan against him from
which she meant to defend him, if he had not had
absolute confidence in Spears. Was it an effort of
generosity on her part to free him from the dilemma in
which his mother's indiscretion had placed him — to put
him away from the place in which her company might bea
danger to him — to restore him to the sphere to which
he belonged ? For the first time with this idea a warm
impulse of gratitude and admiration moved him towards
the demagogue's daughter. He waved his hand to her
as she went away, with a smile which made Janet's heart
jump, and in which indeed no great strain of imagination
was required to see a lover's lingering of delight and

L 2

regret as the object of his affection left him. Spears
laughed ; he saw no deficiency.

Come, come," he said, " we have more serious work
in hand. Leave all that to a seasonable moment." And
upon the man's face there came a smile — soft, luminous,
full of tender sympathy. In his day he too had known
what love was.

Fraser was an uncouth, thick man, short of stature,
with that obscuration of griminess about him which
sometimes appears in the general aspect of a labouring
man. He was not dirty, but he was indistinct, as seen
through a certain haze of atmosphere, which, however,
from his side was penetrated by two keen eyes. He
gave Paul a quick look, then, with a word of salutation,
took his seat at the table, on which a paraffin lamp,
emitting no delightful odour, was standing. As he did
so two others came in. One a lean man, with spindle
limbs and a long pale face, who looked as if he had
grown into exaggerated pale length, like some imprisoned
plant struggling upwards to the distant light.
The other was a clerk, in the decent, carefully arranged
dress which distinguishes his class, very neat and
respectable, and "like a gentleman," though a world

apart from a gentleman's ease of costume. The tall
man was Weaver ; the clerk's name was Short. They
took their seats also with brief salutations. There was
room around the table for several more, but these
seemed all that were coming. Spears took his place at
the head. He Alas by far the most living and life-like
of the party.

Are we all here ? " he said. " There are some
vacant places. I hope that doesn't mean falling away.
Where is Rees, Short ? TMiat has become of him ?
It was you that brought him here."

'' He has heard of another situation," said the clerk.
His wife never liked it. I doubt much whether
we'll see him again. He never was a man to be
calculated upon. Hot at first — very hot — but no
stamina. I warned you, Spears."

And Lay ton — he was hot too — has he dropped off
as well ? "

Well, you see. Spears," said the long man, with
laboured utterance, working his hand slowly up and
down, 'work's mended in our trade; there's a deal
in that. When it's bad a man's ready for anything ;
as it was all the early summer — not a thing doing.

There were dozens on us as would have gone anywhere
to make sure of a bit o' bread. But work's mended, and
most of us think no more on what we've said. Not
me," the speaker added ; " I'm staunch. It's nothing
to me what the women say."

''I suppose you have got the maps and all the
details ? " said the clerk. " If we're going out in
October, we'd better settle all the details without
delay."

Then there arose a discussion about the land that
was offered by the emigration commissioners, which
it is needles to reproduce here. It was debated between
Spears, Fraser, and the clerk, all of whom threw themselves
into it with heat and energy, the eyes of the
grimy little Scotchman gleaming on one after another,
throwing sudden light like that of a lantern ; while
Short talked with great volubility and readiness, and
Spears, at the head of the table, held the balance
between them. Fraser was for closing with the official
offer, and securing land before they made their start,
while the clerk held in his hand the plans of a new
township and the proposals of a land company, which
seemed to him the most advantageous. Spears, for his

part, was opposed to both. He was for waiting until
they had arrived at their destination, and choosing
for themselves where they would fix their abode. He,
for his part, had no money to buy land, even at the
cheapest rate. To take his family out, to support
them during the first probationary interval, was as
much as he could hope for. The debate rose high
among them. Weaver sat with his two elbows resting
on the table, and his long pale head supported in his
hands, looking from one to another ; his mouth and
eyes were open with perennial wonder and admiration.
Land I he had never possessed anything all his life,
and the idea inflamed him. Paul had never taken any
part in these practical discussions ; he was too logical.
If it was wrong for him to enjoy the advantages of
wealth at home, he did not see how he could carry
any of these advantages away with him, to purchase
other advantages on the other side of the world. What
right had he to do it ? He sat silent, but less patient
than Weaver, less admiring, feeling the peculiarities of
the men doubly, now that he had associated himself
conclusively with them. The clerk's precise little tone,
cut and dry — his disquisition upon the rates of interest

and the chances of making a good speculation — Fraser's
dusky hands, which he put forward in the heat of
argument, beating out emphatic sentences with a short,
square forefinger — gave him an impression they had
never done before. Short was a Httle contemptuous
(notwithstanding the democratical views which he
shared) of the working men, and their knowledge of
what ought to be done.

'with the small means at our command," he said,
"to go out into the bush would be folly. You can't
grow grain or even potatoes in a few weeks. You must
have civilisation behind you, and a town where you can
push along with your trades till the land begins to pay."

"And how are you to make the land pay without the
plough, and somebody to guide it ? " said Fraser. " I
am not one that holds with civilisation. Most land will
pay that's well solicited with a good spade and a good
stout arm. We'll take a pickle meal with us, or let's
say flour, and the time the corn's growing we'll build
our houses and live on our porridge. I do not approve
of the Government, but it makes a good offer, and land
cannot run away. Make yourself sure of a slice of the
land ; that is what I'll always say."

"Land," said Spears, with some scorn in his tone,
that may be in the middle of a marsh, or on the cold
side of a hill. I put no faith in the Government offer
for my 'part, and a little less than none in your new
township, Short. Did you ever read about Eden in
Mr. Dickens's book ? I object to be slaughtered with
fever for the sake of a new land company. Here is my
opinion : Take your money with you as you please — in
your old stocking, or in bits of paper — I," said the
demagogue, " feel the superiority of a man that has no
money to take. I've got my head and my hands, and
I mean to get my farm out of them. But let's see the
place first and choose. Let's try the forest primeval, as
they call it ; but let us take our choice for ourselves."

Fraser, who had projected himself half across the
table leaning upon his elbows, and with his emphatic,
blunt forefinger extended in act to speak, here interposed,
pointing that member at Paul, who said nothing.
"What's he going to do ? Hasn't he got an opinion on
the subject ! I'm keen to know what a lad will say
that has the most money to spend, and the most to lose
and a young fellow forbye ; " said the Scot, flashing
the light of his eager eyes upon Paul, who sat half-interested,

half-disgusted, holding his refined head, and
white hands, and fine linen, a little apart from the group
round the table. He started slightly when he heard
himself appealed to.

'' If it is a false position to possess more than one's
neighbours here," he said, " I hold it a still more false
position to take what ought to be valuable to the
country out of the country. I have very little money
either to spend or to lose, and I think with Spears."

'' Ah' said the Scotsman, " my lad, it's a frolic for
you. You'll go and you'll play at what is life or death
to us — and by the time you're tired of the novelty you'll
mind upon your folk at home, and your duty to them.
I've seen the like before. None like you for giving rash
counsels : not that you mean harm : but you know well
you've them behind you that will be too glad to have
you back. That's not our case — with us it's life or death."

'' Hold your tongue, Fraser," said Spears. " This
young fellow," — he laid his hand upon Paul as he spoke,
with a kind, paternal air, which perhaps the young man
might have liked at another time, but which made him
wince now — 'ris in earnest — no sort of doubt that hein
earnest. He is giving up a great deal more than any

of US are doing. We — that's the worst of it — are
making no sacrifice — we're going because it suits us;
but, to show his principles, he is giving up — a great
deal more than was ever within our reach."

A man cannot give up more than he has got," said
the clerk. " What we are sacrificing is every bit as
much to us."

Spears kept his hand on Paul's arm. He meant it
very kindly, but it was warm and heavy, and Paul
had all the desire in the world to pitch it off. He did
not care for the paternal character of his instructor's
kindness.

I don't know what you are giving up," said Spears.
I have got nothing to sacrifice, except perhaps a little
bit of a perverse liking for the old country, bad as she
is. It takes away a good deal of my pride in myself,
if the truth where known, to feel that after all the talk
I've gone through in my life, it isn't for principle that
I'm going, but to better myself. I told this young
fellow he oughtn't to go — that is the truth. He has
no reason to be discontented. As long as the present
state of things holds out, it's to his interest, and doubly
to his interest, to stay where he is. But this isn't the

kind of fellow to stand on what's pleasant to himself.
He's coming for the grand sake of the cause — eh, Paul ?
or if there's another little bit of motive alongside,
why that's nothing to anybody. We are not going to
make a talk of that."

To imagine anything more distasteful to Paul than
this speech would be impossible. Only by the most
strenuous exercise of self-control could he keep from
thrusting off Spears's hand, his intolerable approval, and
still more intolerable pleasantry. He got up at last,
unable to bear it any longer. " We didn't come hereto
comment on each other's motives," he said. " Suppose
you go on with the business we met for. Spears."

It was a little relief to get out of reach of the other's
hand. He stood up against the narrow little mantelpiece
behind Spears's chair. It was heaped with
picture-frames, and the drawing which Spears had
been making in the morning stood there propped up
against the wall; the great foxglove from which he
had designed it lay in a heap along with the other
flowers which he had rejected, swept up into the fireplace.
A faint odour of crushed stalks and broken
flowers came from them. They were swept up

carelessly with 'the dust, their bright petals peeping
from under all the refuse of the shop, dishonoured
and broken. Paul thought it was symbolical. He stood
and looked — more dispassionately from a distance — at
the rough, forcible head of the demagogue, and the
countenance all seamed and grimy of the Scotsman,
who was concentrating the keen light of his eyes upon
Spears. The clerk, on the other hand, clean, neat, and
commonplace, did not seem to belong to the same world,
while the feeble, long head of Weaver was as the ghost
and shadow of the other animated and vigorous faces.
The light of the mean little paraffin lamp threw a yellow
glow on them, but left in darkness all the corners of
the shop, the large shuttered window, full of picture -
frames, and the cavernous opening of the stairs which
led to Spears's house — and filled the place with an
odour which the accustomed senses of the others took
no notice of, but which to Paul was almost insupportable.
He had assisted at these conferences before ; but however
he had busied himself in the details of the meetings,
however earnestly and gravely he had posed (to
his own consciousness) as one of them, yet he had
never been one of them. He had been a spectator

not an actor in the drama, little referred to, scarcely
believed in by the others ; and he had taken them
calmly, as it is so easy to take those with whom we
have nothing to do. But now that he was entirely
committed to their society, now that he had burnt his
ships, and shut every door of escape behind him, a new
light seemed to shine upon them. The smoky lamp,
the smell of the paraffin, the grimy haze about Fraser,
the feeble whiteness of the other, the little clerk, all
smooth and smug, with his talk of capital and interest
Paul seemed never to have seen them before. These
were to be henceforward his companions, fellow-founders
of a new society.

Paul felt himself grow giddy where he stood. Their
talk went on ; they discussed and argued, but it was
only a kind of hum in his ears. He did not care what
conclusion they came to — they themselves struck him
like a revelation. Perhaps if any other four men in
the world had thus been separated from all others as
the future sharers of his life, his feelings would have
been much the same. Four Dons for instance ; suppose
a group out of the Common-room put in the place of
these workmen, would they have been more supportable ?

He asked himself this question vaguely, wistfully.
Could he have put his future in their hands with
more confidence ? or was it simply that the contemplation
of any such group as representing all your society
for the rest of your life was alarming ? Paul put this
question to himself with a curious dizziness and sense
of weakness.

The stair, which has been several times referred to.
went straight up like a ladder from the side of the shop
opposite the door, and the upper part of it was of the
most primitive description, mounting as through a large
trap-door to the floor above. As he stood listening
without hearing, seeing through a mist, Paul caught
sight in the darkness of some one standing under the
shadow of this stair watching and listening. The men
at the table were closely engaged. They took no further
notice of the young man whom they could not believe
in as one of themselves. Even Spears, in the fervour
of discussion, forgot Paul. He stood in all the freedom
of a bystander, thinking his own thoughts, while his
eyes rested upon the group, taking in the whole picture
before him vaguely, as a picture ; and it was at this
moment that he became aware, not only of this vague

and shadowy figure, but of a head put out round the
corner of the stair, with a dart and tremble of curiosity.
It was the fair head of Janet Spears, with all its frizz
of loose locks. At first it was but a dart, rapid and
frightened ; then, as she perceived the absorption of the
others, and saw that she had caught Paul's attention,
she took courage. She gave a glance at them as Paul
was doing, but with a hundred times more conscious
scorn, and then put all the contempt and ridicule of
which eyes were capable into the look with which she
turned to Paul, shrugging her shoulders at the group.
Her next proceeding was to point to the door, and
invite him, as plainly as signs could do it, to meet her
there. Paul grew red as he received these signs, with
wonder and alarm, and a curious kind of shamefacedness.
Was it the strangest unpardonable liberty the
girl was taking ? or had she a right to do it ? With a
rapid gesture she gave him to understand that he must
come out, and that he would find her at the door.

Janet had never been presuming ; she had not been a
coquette ; she had done nothing to call to herself the
attention of the young theorists who frequented her
father s shop. But everything was different now, and she

felt herself not only at liberty to make signals to Paul, but
conferring a favour on liirn by so doing. He vas sick
of the consultation in which he did not care to take any
part, and weary at heart of all the strange circumstances
around him. And the paraffin was very disagreeable.
Why should he not obey Janet's signs, and go and meet
her outside ? At least it could not be any worse than
this. After a few moments of struo'o-le with himself
Paul announced quietly that he was going. " My
presence can make no difference," he said. They
scarcely heard him, so busy were they with their
argument. No Rembrandt could have surpassed the
curious group of heads set in the surrounding darkness,
with the Hight of the lamp so fully upon them, and all
so intent and full of living interest. Spears turned
round and gave him a good-humoured nod as he went
away. He was half-vexed to be deserted ; yet he smiled
was it not natural ? Outside, though it was a little
bye-street, and not immaculate, the air was sweeter
than in that atmosphere of paraffin ; but it was with
a curious sense of humiliation and surprise at his own
position, that Paul saw Janet's dark, slim figure stealing
out at another door. That he should meet a girl under
VOL. IL M

the light of a street-lamp, jostled by passers-by, remarked
upon as Janet Spears's lover, seemed something incredible.
Yet he was doing it ; he scarcely could tell
why. She came stealing close up to him, with just the
attitude and gesture he had seen in other humble pairs
of love-makers, and Paul could not help wondering,
with a sharp sting of self-scorn, whether he was as like
the ordinary hero of such encounters as she was like
the heroine. Janet came up to him however with all
the fervour of a purpose. She put out her hand, and
gave a touch to his arm.

'' Did you hear what I said ? — did you think of what
I was saying?" she asked. "Father came just when
he wasn't wanted. Perhaps you'll think me a bold girl
to call you out here ; but it's for your good. Oh, Mr.
Paul, don't listen to all that nonsense ! What should
soit go away for ? You're a deal better off here than
you ever would be there. Father may have some excuse.
He thinks, I suppose, as he's getting old, and as
it would be better for me and the girls to be out there.
I don't think so. I'd rather be anything at home. I'd
rather take a situation. Still, father has an excuse.
But you — what do you want among men like them ? —

you that are a gentleman. You never could put up
with them. And why should you go ? — think a moment
why should you go ? "

'rit is very good of you to interest yourself about
me," said Paul, feeling himself so much stiffer and
more solemn than he had ever been before, "but I have
chosen with my eyes open. I have done what I thought
best."

'' Oh, of course I interest myself in you. Who should
I interest myself in ? " cried Janet, " above everything !
And that is why I say don't meddle with them ; don't
have anything to do with them. Oh, when you have a
father that will give you whatever you like ; when you
have your pockets full of money ; when, if you just
wait a little, you will have a title, and everything heart
could desire — v:liy should you go a long sea voyage,
and mix yourself up with a parcel of working men ?
'why?" cried Janet, with a wonderment that was
slightly mingled with scorn, yet was impassioned in its
vehemence. " I would not demean myself like that,
not for all the world."

Paul stood and looked at her almost moved to laughter
by the strangeness of the position. Spears's daughter !

M 2

but the laughter would not have been sweet. That
strange paradox, and the still stranger one of his own
meeting with his supposed love under the lamp-post,
filled him with the profoundest mortification, wonder,
and yet amusement. It seemed beyond the power of
belief, and yet it was true.

Sir William was better when he got home. When he
reached his own house he began to hold up his head, to
hold himself, if not erect as of old, yet in a way more
like himself. He walked firmly into the house, always
with Fairfax's arm, and said, " I am better. Brown ; yes,
much better," when Brown met him, very anxious and
effusive, at the door. " I feel almost myself," he said,
turning round to Lady Markham. And so he looked —
himself ten years older, but yet with something of the
old firmness and precise composure. How he could
thus recover, though the letter in his pocket-book bore
the postmark of Markham Koyal, and he had come
back into the very presence of the danger which at a
distance had overwhelmed him, it would be difficult to
tell. "He's picked up wonderful," Mr. Jarvis, Sir

William's own man, said to Mr. Brown ; " but for all
that, he's got notice to quit — he have. Just see if I
ain't right." Mrs. Fry was of the same opinion when
she saw her master. She had never had any comfort in
her mind, she declared, since she heard of these fainting.
All the Markhams went like that. The late Sir Paul
had done just the same — nothing to speak of at first,
and nobody alarmed — but it was a thing that went fast,
that was, Mrs. Fry said. They were all very gloomy
about Sir William down stairs, but in the family there
was no such alarm. He put away his trouble, or rather,
as he emerged out of the suffering of his attack into
physical comfort again, and no longer felt the blood
ebbing, as it were, from his heart, and consciousness
failing in the giddy void into which he had seemed to
sink, nature in him declined to remember it, turned
away from it. The familiar house, the waving of the
woods, the stately quiet about him, healed him, and he
would not allow himself to be pulled back. He came
to dinner, and occupied his place as usual, looking
really, his wife and daughter thought, almost quite
himself. This almost made up to them, poor ladies,
for the moment — for all that it had cost them to

leave Oxford in such melancholy uncertainty about
Paul.

But there was one of the party who was not at his
ease. Fairfax, who had come away on the spur of the
moment without any provision for a visit, and who felt
his presence here to be mere accident, nothing more,
scarcely knew what to do or say. After he had helped
Sir William up stairs on their arrival, he came to Lady
Markham, confused yet smiling, with his hat in his
hand. " I must take my leave now. I hope Sir
William will go on mending, and no longer have need
of my arm as a walking-stick."

"Your leave ! " said Lady Markham, "what does that
mean ? Do you think after taking the use of you all
the way here that I am going to let you go away without
making acquaintance with Markham ? No, no ;
you are going to stay."

"I came as a walking-stick," said the young man;
and I have brought nothings he added, laughing
is the disadvantage of a walking-stick which is
human, which wants tooth-brushes and all kinds of
things. Besides, I am of no further use. Sir William
is better, and there are shoals of men here."

You make us out to be pleasant people," said Lady
Markham, ''orettino: rid of our friends as soon as we
have need of them no longer. That will never do.
You must send for your things, and in the meantime
there is Paul's wardrobe to fall back upon. He always
leaves a number of things here."

"But " said Fairfax, flushing very deeply. He

was not handsome, like Paul. There was a look of easy
good-humour, kindness, sympathy about him, a desire
to please, a readiness to be serviceable. He had brown
eyes, which were clear and kind; brown hair, crisp
and curling; a pleasant mouth; but nothing in his
features or his aspect that could be called distinguished.
Pleasure, embarrassment, difficulty, a desire to say
something, yet a reluctance to say it, were all mingled
in his face ; but the pleasure was the strongest. He
gave an appealing look at Alice, as if entreating her
to help him out.

*' I want no buts," said Lady Markham. " I want to
go to Sir William, and you are detaining me with a
foolish argument which you know you cannot convince
me by. Send for your things, and Brown
will show you your room : and we can talk it allover,"

she said, smiling, " as soon as your portmanteau
is here."

Fairfax made her an obeisance as he might have
done to a queen. He stood with his hat in his hand
and his head bowed while she passed him going out of
the room. Every young man, it is to be supposed, has
some youthful feminine ideal in his mind, but to Fairfax
Lady Markham was a new revelation. He knew,
if not by experience, yet from all the poets, that there
were creatures like her daughter in the world; that
they were the flower and blossom of humanity, supposed
to be the most beautiful things in life ; but the next
step from the Alice of creation was into a darkness he
knew nothing of Age, or a youth that was pretended,
false, and disgusting, swallowed up all the rest. A
mother (he had never known his own) was an old stager
or an old campaigner, a dragon or a matchmaker, the
gaoler or the executioner of her girls, the greatest
danger to all men ; scheming with deadly wiles to get
rid of her daughters ; then, in the terrible capacity of
mother-in-law, using all these wiles to get the girls
who had escaped from her, back, and make the lives of
their husbands miserable. This is the conception which

the common Englishman crete from his liszt literature
of all women who are not young. Fairfax was no
worse than his kind; he had never known his own
mother, and the name was not sacred to him. But
when Lady Markham came within his ken the young
man was bewildered. He could understand Alice, but
he could not understand the woman who was so
beautiful and gracious, and yet Markham' s mother.
She dazzled him, and filled him with shame and
generous compunction. Her very smile was a fresh
wonder. He was half afraid of her, yet to disobey or
rebel against her seemed to him a thing impossible.
The revelation of this mother even changed the character
of his relations with Alice, for whom, on the
first sight of her, the natural attraction of the natural
mate, the wondering interest, admiration, and pleasure,
which, if not love, is the first beginning of the state of
love — had caught him all at once. The mother brought
a softening as of domestic trust and affection into this
nascent feeling. Alice was brought the nearer to him,
by some inexplicable magic, because of the dazzling
superiority of this elder unknown princess, whose very
existence was a miracle to him. When Lady Markham

had gone out, with a smile and gracious bend of her
head in answer to his reverential salutation, Fairfax came
back to Alice with a certain awe in his look, which was
half contradicted, half heightened, by the wavering of
the smile upon his face, in which there mingled something
like amusement at his own sense of awe.

Miss Markham, may I ask your advice ? " he said.

"You are frightened at mamma," said Alice, with a
soft laugh. " Oh, but you need not ! She is as kind —
as kind — as if she were only old nurse," Alice said, in
despair of finding a better illustration.

Don't be profane ! " cried Fairfax, with uplifted
hands. " Yes, I am frightened. I never knew that
anybody's mother could be like that. But, Miss
Markham, will you give me your advice ? "

Is your mother — not living, Mr. Fairfax ? "

She never has been for me — she died so Ions asfo ;
I am afraid I have never thought much about her.
Ought I to stay. Miss Markham ?" He raised his eyes
to her with a piteous look, yet one that was half comic
in its earnestness, and a sudden blush, unawares, as
their eyes met, flamed over both faces. For why ? How
could they tell ? It was so, and they knew no more.

Surely," Alice said ; " mamma wishes it, and we
all wish it. After showing us so much kindness,
you would not go away the moment you have come
here ? "

"But that is not the question," said Fairfax. " The
fact is, I am nobody. Don't laugh, or I shall laugh too,
and I am much more disposed to cry. I have a tolerable
name, haven't I ? but alas ! it does not mean anything.
I don't know what it means, nor how we came by it. I
am one of the unfortunate men, Miss Markham, who —
never had a grandfather."

Alice had been waiting with much solemnity for the
secret which made him so profoundly grave (yet there
was a twinkle, too, which nothing but the deepest misfortune
could quench, in the corner of his eye). When
this statement came, however, she was taken with a
sudden fit of laughter. Could anything be more absurd ?
And yet in her heart she felt a sudden chill, a sense of
horror. Alice would not have owned it, but this was
a terrible statement for any young man on the verge
of intimacy to make. No grandfather ! It was a
misfortune she could not understand.

"At least, none to speak of," he said, the fun

growing in his eyes. "You should not laugh, Miss
Markbani. Don't you think it is hard upon a man ?
To come to an enchanted palace, where he would give
his head to be allowed to stay, and to feel that for no
fault of his, for a failure which he is not responsible for,
which can be laid only to the score of those ancestors

who did not exist "

"Mr. Fairfax, no one was thinking of your grandfather."


"I know that; but, dear Miss Markham, you know
very well that to-night, or tomorrow night, or a year
hence, your mother, before whom I feel disposed to go
down upon my knees, will say with her smile, ' Are you
of the Norfolk Fairfaxeses, or the Westchester family,

or ? ' And I, with shame, will begin to say,

Madam, of no Fairfaxeses at all' "WTiat will she think
of me then ? Will not she think that I have done
wrong to be here — that I had no right to stay ? "

Oh, Mr. Fairfax ! " cried Alice, somewhat pale and
troubled ; " how can I advise you ? Mamma is not a
fanatic about family. She does not build upon it to
that extent. I do not see why she should ever ask you.
It is no business of ours." AHce was not strong enough

to have such a tremendous question thrown upon her
to decide. As a matter of fact, she knew that her
mother would very soon make those inquiries about the
Westchester family and the Norfolk Fairfaxeses. Already
Lady Markham had indulged in speculations on the
subject, and had begun to remember that in the one
case she " used to know" a cousin of his, and in the
other had met his uncle, the ambassador, and saw a
great deal of him once in Paris. She grew quite pale,
and her eyes puckered up and took the most anxious
aspect. Besides, it was a shock to herself. That absence
of a grandfather was a want which was almost indecent.
She did not understand it, and she was extremely sorry
for him. He had no home then — no house that his
people had lived in for ages — no people. Poor boy !

And Fairfax's countenance also fell, in reflection of
hers. However deep may be one's private consciousness
of one's own deficiencies, there is always a little expectation
in, one's mind that other people will make
light of them ; but when you see your own dismay, and
more than your own dismay, in the eyes of your counsellor,
then is the moment when you sink into the abyss.
His lip quivered for a moment, and though it eventually

succeeded in forming into a smile, the smile was very
tremulous and uncertain.

I see," he said ; '' no need for another word. Goodbye.
I have had a glimpse into — the garden of Eden,
though I must not stay."

Mr. Fairfax ! " cried Alice, as he turned away.
Come back — come back this moment ! How dare you
take me up so ? Do you want to get me into trouble,"
she cried, half crying, half laughing, " with mamma ?
Would you like to have her — beat me ? "
She does so sometimes ? "

To be sure," cried Alice, with an unsteady laugh.
Oh, Mr. Fairfax, what a fright you have given me !
You have made my heart beat ! "

Not so much as mine," he said. They had their
laugh, and then they stood once more looking at each
other. "It is all very well," said the young man ; " you
want to spare my feelings ; you would not hurt any one.
But beyond that, you know as well as I do that Lady
Markham, knowing who I am, would not like to have
me here."

'* Who are you ? " said Alice, with a little renewed
alarm ; and in her mind she tried to remember whether

there had been any trials in the papers, any criminals
who bore this name.

I am nobody at all," said Fairfax. " I haven't
even the distinction of being improper, or belonging to
people who have made themselves notable either for
evil or good. I am nobody. That is precisely what I
want Lady Markham to understand."

'' I think, Mr. Fairfax," said Alice, '' you had better
go and send for your things, as m^^mma said."

'' You think I may ? "

He looked at her with eyes full of pleasure and
gratitude, putting more meaning into her words than
they would bear, and getting a thrill of conscious
happiness out of the little arbitrary tone which, half
in jest and half to hide her real doubts, Alice put on.
He was so glad to obey, to say to himself that it was
their own doing and that they could not blame him for
it, so happy to be made to remain as he persuaded
himself. The children rushed in as he went away to
obey what he called to himself the order he had received,
eager to know who he was, and making a
hundred inquiries about all kinds of things — about
papa's illness, why he looked so grey, and what was

the matter with him ; about Paul, why he did not come
home ; about Mr. Fairfax, who he was, what he was,
what he was doing there, whether he was going to stay.
There was scarcely a question that could be put on
these subjects which the ingenious children did not
ask: and Alice was glad finally to suggest that they
should walk to the village with Mr. Fairfax and show
him where the post-office was, that he might telegraph
for his portmanteau. They were quite willing to take
this on themselves. " We shall be sure to see the little
gentleman," Bell said, '' Who is the little gentleman ? "
asked Alice ; but she had so many things to think of
that she did not pay any attention to the reply, which
was made by all the four voices at once. What did it
matter? She had a hundred things so much more
important to think of.

And when the children had been sent off, forming a
guard of honour about Fairfax, cross-examining him to
their heart's content, and in their turn communication
information which was quite novel to him,
AHce thought she was very glad of the quiet and the
interval of rest. Sir William was resting, declaring
himself much better; and Lady Markham, in the

VOL. IL N

relief of this fact, was lying down on the sofa, getting
half an hour's doze after her sleepless night. Alice
had not slept much more than her mother, but she
could not doze. After a while a sensation of regret
stole into her mind that she had not accompanied the
others. There was a soft breeze blowing among the
trees which freshened the aspect of nature, and the
sky was blue and tender, doubly blue after the smoky
half-colour of a town. Alice sat by the window and
watched the flickering of the leaves, and wished she
had gone with them. Something seemed wanting to
her. To be alone and free to rest, did not seem the
privilege she had thought it. She wanted — what ?
Some one to speak to, some one's eyes to meet hers.
The leaves ruffled and seemed to call her ; the little
breeze came and whispered at the edge of the window,
blowing the lace curtains about. All the world invited
her, wooed her, to go out into the fresh air, into the
green avenue, into the joyful yet silent world. "The
air would have done me good," Alice said to herself ;
and her voice came back to her out of the silence
as if it had been somebody else's voice. Then by
degrees it came into her head that the air would still

do her good if she went out now, which somehow did
not exactly hit her wishes. After this, however, it
occurred to her that to stroll down the avenue and
meet them as they came back would not be amiss, and
much comforted by this suggestion she ran to get her
hat. Would they be glad to see her, or would they
ask her loudly why she came out now, when nobody
wanted her. Brothers and sisters under fourteen
are apt to express opinions of this sort very plainly.
Alice felt angry at the idea, but afterwards melted,
and represented to herself that to meet them in
the avenue was of all the courses open to her the
best.

Sir William was able to come down stairs to dinner,
which was more than any one had hoped, and after
dinner he came into the dining-room with the ladies,
and saw the children, as he had always been in the
habit of doing, while he took his coffee. A recovery
of this kind from a sudden fit of illness has often the
most softening and happy effect. He had a great deal
of care on his mind, but the sensation of getting better
seemed to chase it all away. He seemed to be getting
better of that too, to be getting over it. before it ever

came to anything. Had lie been in his usual condition
he would have known very well that he had got over
nothing, that it was all waiting for him round the
corner of the very next day, or even hour; but Sir
William convalescent was not in his usual state of
mind. He felt as if he had got over it, as if it all lay
behind him — the perplexity, and the trouble, and
alarm. He sat in his great chair, with cushions placed
about him, looking so much older, and so much softer,
more indulgent and more talkative. A kind of garrulousness
had come upon him. He told his children
stories of his own childhood. He was not put out by
their restlessness, by their interruptions, as he generally
was. Never had he been so gentle, so amiable. He
told them ail about an adventure of his in the woods
with his brothers, when he had been about Roland's
age. It was like the story of old Grouse in the gun-room
to the little Markhams ; they knew exactly whereto
laugh, and what questions to ask to show their
interest, and they conducted themselves with the
greatest propriety, not even putting him right when
he deviated from the correct routine of the story, which
they remembered better than he did. It was only after

this wonderful tale was over that Bell made the unfortunate
remark which brought a new transformation.
How should the child know there was any harm in it ?
Oh," she cried suddenly, " look, Harry ! look, Marie !
As papa sits there, now ! Did you ever see anything
so like the little gentleman ? " and Bell clasped her
hands together in admiring contemplation of this
strange fact.

There was a pause. Had it not been for the entire
ignorance of the easy household, calm, and fearing no
evil, it might have been thought that a shiver ran
through the air, as this crisis suddenly developed itself
out of the quiet : every one was quite still. They all
looked at the child with amused curiosity — all but one.
And though there was nothing meant by it the effect
was strange. It was left to Sir William to speak,
which he did in a clear, thin voice, suddenly becoming
judicial and solemn.

"Whom do you mean by the little gentleman.
Bell?"

''Oh, he is a relation — he told us so," said the little
girl.

"And he has brought me some sweetmeats from

abroad — me ! — though he didn't know my name. What
sort of things would you call sweetmeats, mamma ? "

And he is living down at the Markham Arms.
We saw him to-day. He jumped into the railway
carriage with Dolly Stainforth."

*'0h, but I saw him come back — following the
carriage' cried Roland. " He stood at the station-gate
to see you pass, papa, and looked so sorry. That
was him, Alice, that stopped us when we went to the
village with Mr. Fairfax. You saw him. He wanted
to shake hands all round."

The pause now, after this clamour of voices, was
more curious than ever. Lady Markham began to
wonder a little.

A relation ! — who could it be ? Do you know of
any relation who would not have come to us straight ?
I do not think it could be a relation. You must have
made a mistake."

Oh, no ; we have not made any mistake," cried the
children with one voice. " Besides, he was such
friends with us. He promised to give us quantities
of things; and then he is like papa."

I don't think Sir William is well," said Fairfax,

hurriedly. He rose up with an exclamation of terror,
and Lady Markham sprang to her feet and rushed to
her husband's side.

I am feeling — a little faint," he said, in a half-whisper,
with a tremendous attempt to regain command
of himself; but it failed. His head drooped, his 
quivered, and then lay half-closed upon the dim
langour underneath that had lost all power of seeing ;
his breath laboured, and came in gasps from his pale
lips. All the sudden recovery in which they had been
so happy was over. Alice put the children hastily out
of the room, like a flock frightened, as she ran to call
Jarvis, to get what was necessary, to send for the
village doctor. The boys and girls got together into
a corner of the hall and cried silently, clinging together
in fright and sorrow ; or at least the girls cried,
wondering —

Was it anything we said ? "

Oh, I wish — I wish ! " cried Bell, but in a whisper,
'•'that I had not said anything about the little
gentleman ! "

But of all the family she was the only one that thought
of this. The others though they were much alarmed

were not surprised. There was nothing, alas! more
natural than that these fits should come on again.
The doctor had expected it. They said to each other
that he had been more tired with the journey than
they supposed — that indeed it was certain in his state
of health that he must be worn out by the journey : the
wonder only was that he had revived at all. He was
carried to his room after a while, the children looking
on drearily from their corner, full of dismay. To them
nothing seemed to be too dreadful to be expected.

"Oh, why does papa look so pale?" Marie sobbed,
with that blighting terror which seizes a child at the
first sight of such signs of mortality. Even the boys
had much to do to rub away out of the corners of their
eyes the sudden burst of tears.

''1 am better — much better," the sick man said,
when he came to himself, " but very weak. You won't
allow me to be disturbed ? I cannot see any one — it
is impossible for me to see any one, Isabel."

*' Do you think I will let you be disturbed ? " said
Lady Markham. " And who would disturb you ? Do
you forget, William, that we are at home?"

But that word, so full of consolation, fell upon him

with no healing in it. Yes, he knew very well that he
was at home, and that his enemy who had been waiting
for him all these years — his enemy who meant him no
harm, who meant no one any harm — the deadliest foe of
the children and their mother, his own reproach and
shame — that innocent yet mortal enemy was close to
him, lurking among the trees, behind the peaceful
houses in the village, to disturb him as no one else
could. His wife put back the curtain so as to shield his
feeble eyes from the lamp, and sat down — anxious, yet
serene — wondering at his strange fancy. Disturb him !
Who could disturb him here ?

This time Sir William did not get better as he had
done before. His third fainting-fit proved the beginning
of an illness at which the village doctor looked very
grave. It was still but a very short time since he had
come down from London, relieved at the end of the
session, to enjoy his well-earned leisure, with everything
prosperous around him, nothing but the little vexation
of Paul's vagaries to give him a prick now and then, a
reminder that he too was subject to the ills of mortality.
What a happy house it had been to which the tired
statesman had come home ! When he had taken his
seat by the side of Alice in the little pony-carriage there
had been nothing but assured peace and comfort in his
mind. Paul : — yes — Paul has been a vexation ; but no
more. Now all that brightness was overcast ; the happy

children in their holiday freedom were hushed in their
own corner of the house no longer allowed to roam
through it wherever they pleased. Lady Markham,
with all pretty gowns, her lace and ornaments put away,
lived in her husband's sick-room, or came down stairs now
and then with an anxious smile, "like someone coming
to call," the Httle girls said. Alice had become not Alice,
but a sort of emissary between the outside world and
that little hidden world up stairs ui which the life of the
house seemed concentrated. As for Sir William, he lay
between life and death. First one, then another great
London physician had come dowTi to see him — but all
that they could suggest had done him little or no good.
All over the country messengers came every day for
news of him ; the head of the government, and even the
Queen herself, and all the leading members of the party
sent telegrams of inquiry; and there were already
flutters of expectation in the town he represented as
to the chances of the Liberal interest, " should anything
happen." Even into Lady Markham's mind, as she satin
the silent room, often darkened and always quiet,
trying hard to keep herself from thinking, there would
come thoughts, dreary previsions of change, floating like

clouds across her mental firmament, against her will, in
spite of all her precautions — visions of darkness and
blackness and solitude which she tried in vain to shut
out. Her husband lying so still under the high canopies
of the bed, from which all curtains and everything that
could obstruct the free circulation of air had been
drawn aside, capable of no independent action, but still
the centre of every thought and plan — was it possible to
imagine him absent altogether, swept away out of the
very life in which ho had been the chief actor ! These
thoughts did not come by any will of hers, but drifted
gloomily across her mind as she sat silent, sometimes
trying to read, mechanically going over page after page,
but knowing nothing of the meaning of the words that
were under her eyes. To realise the death of the
sufferer whom one is nursing is, save when death is too
close to be any longer ignored, not only a shock, but a
wrong, a guilt, a horror. Is it not like signing his
sentence, agreeing that he is to die ? Lady Markham felt
as if she had consented to the worst that could happen
when these visions of the future drifted across her mind.
Meanwhile who can describe the sudden dreariness
of the house upon which in full sunshine of youth

and enjoyment this blight came ? The boys wished
themselves at school — could there be any stronger
evidence of the gloom around them ? — the girls grew
sad and cross, and cried for nothing at all. Fairfax
lingered on, not knowing what to do, afraid to trouble
the anxious ladies even by proposing to go away,
obliterating? himself as much as he could, though doing
everything that Paul, had he been there, would have
been expected to do. Paul did not come till a week
after, though he was written to every day — but in that
week a great many things had happened. For one
thing Lady Markham had seen and spoken with the
stranger who was living at the Markham Arms in the
village, and who had introduced himself to the children
as a relation. She had heard nothing of Mr. Gus
except that one mention of him by little Bell on the
night of the return, and that had made no great
impression on her mind. It had been immediately
before the recurrence of Sir William's faint, which had
naturally occupied all her thoughts, and how could it
be supposed that Lady Markham would remember a
thing of such small importance ? It surprised her much
to meet in the hall that strange little figure in light.

loose clothes, standing hat in hand, as she went from
one room to another. Sir William then had been buta
few days ill, and Lady Markham had hitherto
resolutely kept herself from all those drifting shadows
of fear. It was one of the days when she had come to
make a call " on her children. Sir William was asleep,
and she persuaded herself that he was better, she had
come down, as she said, to tell them the good news ;
but her smile as she told it was so tremulous, that little
Bell, whose nerves had got entirely out of order, began
to cry. And then they all cried together for a minute,
and were a little eased by it. Alice protested that she was
crying for joy because papa was better, and that it was
very silly, but she could not help it ; and Lady Markham
had all the brightness of tears in her eyes as she came
out into the hall on her way back to the sick-room ; and
lo, there before her in the hall, stood the little gentleman,
bowing, with his hat in his hand.

I think you must have heard of me, Lady Markham,"
he said.

She looked at him, with a kind of horror that a
stranger should be able to find and detain her — she who
ought to be by her husband's bedside. In her capacity

of nurse it seemed almost as great a crime to intercept
her as it would be to disturb Sir William ; but she was
too courteous to express her horror.

"I do not think so," she said, with a conciliatory
smile which was intended to take off any edge of
offence that might be found in her profession of
ignorance. Then she looked at the card which he
handed to her. "Perhaps this ought to be given to
Brown. Ah ! but now I remember. You are related
to some kind people, the Lennys, who were here."

Have the Lennys been here ? " said Mr. Gus, with
unfeigned surprise. "Yes, I am a relation of theirs
also ; but in the meantime there is a much nearer
relationship."

I am sure Mr. Gaveston," said Lady Markham, with
a smile by which she begged pardon for what she
was saying, "that you will not think it rude if I
leave you now. I don't like to be long away from Sir
"William. "V\Tien he wakes he may miss me."

"Lady Markham," said Mr. Gus, "I wish you would
let me speak to you. I do wish it indeed. It vrould
be so much easier afterwards "

She looked at him with genuine surprise, then with

a glance round her up the great staircase, where she
wished to go, and round the open doors by which no
one came for her deliverance, she yielded unwillingly.
I fear I can only give you a few minutes," she said,
and led the way into the library. She had done so
without for the moment thinking that her husband's
room was scarcely a place in which, at this moment, to
discourse placidly with a stranger on subjects of which
she was ignorant. It was so full of him. His books,
his papers, all arranged as if he had that moment left
them ; his chair at its usual angle, as if he were seated
in it unseen ; everything marked with the more than
good order, the precision and formal regularity of all
Sir William's habits. The things which mark the
little foibles of character, the innocent weaknesses of
habit, are those which go most to the heart when death
is threatening a member of a household. The sight of
all these little fads, which sometimes annoyed her, and
sometimes made her laugh when all was well, gave
Lady Markham a shock of sudden pain and sudden
attendrissement. Her heart had been soft enough
before to her husband ; it melted now in a suffusion
of tender love and grief Her eyes filled.

Might it be that he never should sit at that
table again ?

I am sure," she said, making once more the same
instinctive appeal to the sympathy of the stranger,
that you will not detain me longer than you can help,
for my husband is very ill. I cannot help being very
anxious " She could not say any more.

I am very sorry, Lady Markham — but that is the
very thing that makes it so important. May I ask if it
is possible you have never heard of me ? Never even
heard of me ! — that is the strangest thinoj of all."

In her surprise she managed better to get rid of her
tears. She gave a startled glance at him, and then at
the card she still held in her hand. " I cannot quite
say that — for Mrs. Lenny and the Colonel both spoke —
I cannot say of you — but of a family called Gaveston
whom Sir William had known. You are the son, I
presume, of an old friend ? My husband, Mr. Gave-son,"
said Lady Markham, with warmth, " is not a man
to be indifferent to old friends. You may be sure he
would have been glad to see you, and done his best
to make Markham pleasant to you : — but the
circumstances — explain "

VOL. II. O

'then," said her strange companion with a certain
air of sternness which changed the character of his
face, '' that is all you know ? "

Lie looked at the card again. How was it she had
not noticed the second name before ? I see you have
Markham in your name," she said ; " I had not
noticed. Is there then some distant relationship ? But
Mrs. Lenny never claimed to be a relation : or perhaps
I see ! you are Sir William's godson," Lady Markham
said, with a smile which was somewhat forced and
uncomfortable. She kept her eyes upon him, uneasy,
not knowing what might come next, vaguely foreseeing
something which must wound her.

Mr. Gus's brown countenance grew red — he gave
forth a sharp and angry laugh. " His godson," he said ;
and that is all you know ? "

Lady Markham grew far more red than he had done.
Her beautiful face became crimson. The heat of
shame and distress upon it seemed to get into her eyes.
What was this suspicion that was flung into her mind
like a fire-brand ? and in this place where her husband's
blameless life had been passed, and at this moment
when he was ill, perhaps approaching the end of all

things ! "Mr. Gaveston," she said, trembling", "I
cannot, I cannot hear any more. It is not to me you
ought to come, and at such a time ! Oh, if you have
been put in any false position — if you have been
subjected to humiliation, by anything my husband has

done " Her voice was choked by the growing heat

and pain of her agitation ; even to have such a horrible
thought suggested to her now seemed cruelty incredible.
It was wrong on her part to allow it to cross the threshold
of a mind which was sacred to liii. *' Oh," she
cried, wringing her hands, "if you have had anything
to suffer, I am sorry for you, with all my heart ! but I
cannot hear any more now — do not ask me to hear
any more now ! Another time, anything we can
do for you, any amends that can be made to you —
but oh, for God's sake, think of the state he is lying
in, and say no more now ! "

Mr. Gus listened with wonder, irritation, and dismay.
That she should be excited was natural, but with
respect to their meaning, her words were like raving to
him. He could not tell what she meant. Do anything
for him, make him amends ! — was the woman mad ? He
only stared at her blankly, and did not make any reply.



Then she held out her hand to him, trying to smile,
with her eyes full of tears. " It shall not do you any
harm eventually' she said, " your kindness now.
Thank you for not insisting now. I have not left —
Sir William for so long a time since he was ill."

She made a pause before her husband's name. If it
were possible that there might be a link between him

and this stranger — a link as strong as ! It made

her heart sick to think upon it ; but she would not
think upon it. It flashed upon her mind only, but was
not permitted to stay there : and half because of real
anxiety to get back to the sick-room, half from a stil
greater eagerness to get rid of her visitor, she made a
step towards the door.

/'If you will let me say so," said Mr. Gus, "you
oughtn't to shut yourself up in a sick-room. You may
think me an enemy, but I'm no enemy. I wish you all
well. I like the children. I think I could be very

fond, if she'd let me, of Alice, and I admire you "

'' Sir ! " Lady Markham said. She turned her
astonished eyes upon him with a blaze in them which
would have frightened most men ; then opened the
door with great 'stateliness and dignity, ignoring the

attempt he made to do it for her. '' I Dust bid you
good morning," she said, making him a curtsey worthy
of a queen — then Walked across the hall with the same
dignity ; but as soon as she was out of sight, flew upstairs,
and, before going to her husband, went to her
own room for a time to compose herself. She felt herself
outraged, insulted — a mingled sense of rage and
wonder had taken possession of her gentle soul. Who was
this man, and what could he mean by his claim upon
her, his impudent expressions of interest in the family,
as if he belonged to the family ? Was it not bad enough
to put a stigma upon her husband at the moment when
he was dying, and when all her thoughts were full of
the tenderest veneration for him, and recollection of all
his goodness ! To throw this shadow of the sins of his
youth, even vaguely, upon Sir William's honourable,
beautiful age, was something like a crime. It was like
desecration of the holiest sanctuary. Lady Markham
could not but feel indignant that any man should seize
this moment to put forth such a claim — and to make it
to her, disturbing her ideal, introducing doubt and
shame into her love, just at the moment when all her
tenderness was most wanted ! it was cruel. And then,

as if that was not enough, to assume familiarity, to

speak of her child as Alice, this stranger, this !

Delicate woman as she was, Lady Markham, in her
mind, applied as hard a word to Mr. Gua as the
severest of plain spoken men could have used. She
seemed to see far, far back in the mists of distance, a
young man falling into temptation and sin, and some
deceitful girl — must it not have been a deceitful girl ?
working upon his innocence. This is how, when the
heart is sore, such blame is apportioned. He it was
who must have been seduced and deluded. How long
ago ? some fifty years ago, for the man looked as old as
Sir William. When this occurred to her, her heart
gave a leap of joy. Perhaps the story was all a lie —
a fiction. He did look almost as old as Sir William ;
how could it be possible ? It must be a lie.

When she came as far as this she bathed her eyes
and composed herself, and went back to her husband's
room. He was still asleep, and Lady Markham took
her usual place where she could watch him without
disturbing him, and took her knitting which helped to
wile away the long hours of her vigil. If the knitting
could but have occupied her mind as it did her hands !

but in the quiet all her thoughts came back ; her mind
became a court of justice, in which the arguments on
each side were pleaded before a most anxious, yet, alas,
too clear-sighted judge. This stranger, who figured as
the accuser, was arraigned before her, and examined in
every point of view. He was strange ; he was not like
the men whom Lady Markham was used to see ; but he
did not look like an impostor. She tried to herself to
prove him so, but she could not do it. He was
not like an impostor. In his curious foreignness
and presumption, he yet had the air of a true man.
But then, she said to herself, how ignorant, how foolish
he must be, how incapable of any just thought or
feeling of shame. To come to her ! If he had indeed
a claim upon Sir William, there were other ways of
making that claim ; but that he should come to her —
Sir William's wife — and oh, at such a time ! This was
the refrain of her thoughts to which she came back and
back. As she sat there in the darkened room, her
fingers busy with her knitting, her ears intent to hear
the slightest movement the sleeper made, this was how
her mind was employed. Perhaps when they had gone
through all these stages, her thoughts came back with

a still more exquisite tenderness to the sick man lying
there, she thought, so unconscious of this old, old sin of
his which had come back to find him out. How young
he must have been at the time, poor boy ! — younger
than Paul — and away from all his friends, no one to
think of him as Paul had, to pray for him — a youth
tossed into the world to sink or to swim. Lady Markham's
heart melted with sympathy. And to make up
for that youthful folly, in which perhaps he was sinned
against as well as sinning, what a life of virtue and
truth he had led ever since. She cast her thoughts
back upon the past with a glow of tender approval and
praise. Who could doubt his goodness ? He had done
his duty in everything that had been given him to do.
He had served his country, he had served his parish,
both alike, well ; and he had been the Providence of all
the poor people dependent upon him. She went overall
that part of his career which she had shared, with
tears of melancholy happiness coming to her eyes.
Nothing there that any one could blame : oh, far from
that ! everything to be praised. No man had been
more good, more kind, more spotless ; no one who had
trusted in him had ever been disappointed. And what

a husband he had been : what a father he had been !
If this were true, if he had done wrong in his youth,
had he not amply proved that it was indeed but a folly
of youth, a temporary aberration — nothing more. Lady
Markham felt that she was a traitor to her husband to
sit here by his sick-bed and allow herself to think that he
had ever been wicked. Oh, no, he could not have been
wicked ! it was not possible. She went softly to his bedside
to look at him while he slept. Though he was sleeping
quietly enough, there was a cloud of trouble on his fence.
Was it perhaps a reflection from the doubt she had
entertained of him, from the floating shadows of old evil
that had been blown up like clouds upon his waning
sky?

Mr. Gus was much startled by the change in Lady
Markham's manner, by her sudden withdrawal and
altered looks. Had he offended her? He did not
know how. He had been puzzled, much puzzled, by
all she had said. She had professed to be sorry for
him. Why ? Of all who were concerned, Gus felt that
he himself was the one whom it was not needful to be
sorry for. The others might have some cause for complaint
; but nothing could affect him — his position was
sure. And it was very mysterious to him what Lady
Mark ham could mean when she professed to be ready
to make him amends — for what ? Gus could afford to
laugh, though, indeed, he was very much surprised.
But happily the nature of the mistake which Lady
Markham had made, and the cause of her indignation

were things he never guessed at. They did not occur
to him. His position had never been in the least
degree equivocal in any way. He had known exactly,
and everybody around him had known exactly, what it
was. Though he had been adopted as his uncle's heir,
he had never been kept in the dark — why should he ? —
as to whose son he was. And when the poor old
planter fell into trouble, and the estate of which Gus
was to be the heir diminished day by day, " It does
not matter for Gus," the old man had said ; " you must
go back to your own family when I am gone ; there's
plenty there for you, if there is not much here." Gus
had known all about Markham all his life. An old
pencil-drawing of the house, feeble enough, yet recognisable
still, had been hanging in his room since ever
he could remember. It had belonged to his poor
young mother, and since the time he had been able
to speak he had known it as home. The idea of
considering '' the second family " had only dawned upon
him when he began to plan his voyage '' home," after
his uncle's death. He had heard there were children,
and consequently one of his great packing-cases contained
many things which children would be likely to

value. It gave Gus pleasure to think of little sisters
and brothers to whom he would be more like an uncle
than a brother. He was fond of children, and he had
a very comfortable simple confidence in himself. It
had never occurred to him that they might not " get
on." It was true that to hear of Paul gave him at first
a certain twinge ; but he thought it impossible, quite
impossible, that Sir William could have let his son
grow up to manhood without informing him of the circumstances.
Surely it was impossible ! There might
be reasons why Lady Markham need not be told — it
might make her jealous, it might be disappointing and
vexatious to her — but he would not permit himself to
believe that Paul had been left in ignorance. And
Alice, who was grown up, it seemed certain to him that
she, too, must know something. He had been greatly
moved by the sight of Alice. The young ladies out in
Barbadoes, he thought, were not like that, nor did hein
Barbadoes see many young ladies ; and this dainty,
well-trained, well-bred English girl was a wonder and
delight to him. Why should he not say that he was
fond of Alice ? It was not only natural, but desirable
that he should be so. He walked out after Lady

Markham left him ■\\itli a slight sense of discomfiture ;
he could not tell why, but yet a smile at the " flurry "
into which she had allowed herself to be thrown.
Women were subject to " flurries " for next to no cause,
he was aware. It was foolish of her, but yet she was a
woman to whom a good deal might be pardoned. And
he did not feel angry, only astonished, and half discomfited,
and a little amused. It was strange — he
could not tell what she meant — but yet in time no
doubt, aU would be amicably settled, and they would
get on," however huffy she might be for the moment.
Gus knew himself very well, and he knew that in
general he was a person with whom it was easy to
get on.

But he was a little disappointed to go away — after
the hopes he had formed of being at once received into
the bosom of the family, acknowledged by Sir William,
and made known to the others — without any advance
at all. He had spoken to Alice when he met her ^dth
the children, and had got " fond of her " on the spot :
and he would have Used to have had her brought to
him, and to have made himself known in his real
character to all the girls and boys. But however, it

must all come right sooner or later, he said to himself ;
and no doubt Lady Markham, with her husband sick on
her hands, and her son, as all the village believed, giving
her a great deal of anxiety, might be forgiven if she
could not take the trouble to occupy herself about anything
else. Gus went away without meeting any one,
and when he had got out in front of the house, turned
round to look at it, as he was in the custom of doing
It was a dull day, drizzly and overcast. This made the
house look very like that woolly pencil-drawing, which
had always hung at the head of his bed, and always
been called home.

As he stood there some one came from behind the
wing where the gate of the flower-garden was, and approached
him slowly. Gus had not been quite able to
make out who Fairfax was. He was " no relation," and
there did not even seem to be any special understanding
between him and Alice, which was the first idea that
had come into the stranger's head. He had spoken to
Fairfax two or three times when he had met him with
the children, and Gus, who was full of the frankest and
simplest curiosity, waited for him as soon as he perceived
him. " We are going the same way, and I hope you

don't dislike company," he said. To tell the truth,
Fairfax had no particular liking for company at that
moment. It seemed to him that he was in a very
awkward position in this house where dangerous sickness
had come in and taken possession ; but how to act, how
to disembarrass them of his constant presence, without
depriving them of his services, which, with natural self-regard
he thought perhaps more valuable than they
really were, he did not know. The quaint " little gentleman,"
about whom all the children chattered, seemed
for the first moment somewhat of a bore to Fairfax ; but
after a moment's hesitation he accepted him with his
usual good-nature, and joined him without any apparent
reluctance. Mr. Gus was very glad of the opportunity
of examining at his leisure this visitor whose connection
with the family he did not understand.

*' I have been asking for the old gentleman," he said.
I have seen Lady Markham. You know them a
great deal better than I do, no doubt, though I am —
a relation."

** I do not know them very well," said Fairfax. " Indeed.
I find myself in a very awkward position. I came
here by chance because Sir William fell ill when I was

with them, and I was of some use for the moment.
That made me come on with them, without any
intention of staying. And here I am, a stranger, or
almost a stranger, in a house where there is dangerous
illness. It is very embarrassing ; I don't know what
to do."

He had thought Gus a bore one minute, and the next
opened all his mind to him. This was characteristic of
the young man; but yet in his carelessness and easy
impulse there was a certain sudden sense that the
support of a third person somehow connected with the
Markham family might give him some countenance.

Then you don't know them — much ? " said Mr. Gus,
half-satisfied, half-contemptuous. " I couldn't make
you out, to tell the truth. Nobody but an old friend ora
connection — or some one who was likely to become
a connection" — he added, giving Fairfax a keen
sidelong glance, '' seemed the right sort of person to be
here."

Fairfax felt uneasy under that look. He blushed, he
could scarcely tell why. " I can't be said to be more
than a chance acquaintance," he said. " It was a lucky
chance for me. I have known Markham for a longtime.

I've known hhii pretty well; but it was a mere
chance which brought Sir William to me when they
were looking for Markham ; and then, by another chance,
I was calling when hee was taken ill. That's all. I feel
as if I were of a little use, and that makes me hesitate ;
but I know I have no right to be here."

Who's Markham ? The — son, I suppose ? "

'' Yes, the eldest son. I suppose you know him as
Paul. Of course," said Fairfax, with hesitation, " he
ought to be here ; but there are some family misunderstandings.
He doesn't know, of course, how serious
it is."

Wild ? " said Mr. Gus, with his little, precise air.

Oh — I don't quite know what you mean by wild.
Viewy he is, certainly."

Viewy ? Now I don't know what you mean by
viewy. It is not a word that has got as far as the
tropics, I suppose."

Fairfax paused to give a look of increased interest at
the " little gentleman." He began to be amused, and
it was easy — very easy — to lead him from his own
affairs into the consideration of some one else's. " Paul,"
he said — '' I have got into the way of calling him Paul

VOL. II. p

since I have been here, as they all do — goes wrong by
the head, not in any other way. We have been dabbling
in — what shall I call it ? — socialism, communism, in a
way — the whole set of us : and he is more in earnest
than the rest ; he is giving himself up to it."

'' Socialism — communism ! " cried Mr. Gus ; he was
horrified in his simplicity. 'why that's revolution,
that's bloodshed and murder ! " he cried.

Oh, no ; we're not of the bloody kind — we're not
red," said Fairfax, laughing. " It's the communism that
is going to form an ideal society — not fire and flame
and barricades."

'you don't mean to tell me," said Gus, not listening
to this explanation, "that this young Markham — Paul,
this Lady Markham's son — is one of those villains that
want to assassinate all the kings, and plunge all Europe
into trouble ? Good God ! what a lucky thing I came
here ! "

No, no, I tell you," said Fairfax. " On the contrary,
what Paul wants is to turn his back upon kings
and aristocracies, to give up civilisation altogether, for
that matter, and found a new world in the backwoods.
We've all played with the notion. It sounds fine ; and

then there's one eloquent fellow — a real orator, mind
you — who makes it look Eke the grandest thing in the
world to do. I believe he thinks it is, and so does Paul.
He's gone wrong in his head on the subject ; that is
all that is wrong with him. But there is this difference,"
said Fairfax reflectively, " from going T\Tong that way
and — other ways. If you prove yourself an ass in the
common form, you're sorry and ashamed of yourself, and
glad to make it up with your people at home ; but
when it's this sort of thing you stand on your high
principles and will not give in. That's one difference
between being viewy and — the other. Paul can't makeup
his mind to give in ; and then probably he thinks
they are making the very most of his father's illness in
order to work upon his feelings. Well ! he ought to
know better," cried Fairfax, with a flush of indignation ]
Lady Markham is not the sort of person to be suspected
in that way ; but you know the kind of ideas
that are general. He makes himself fancy so, I
suppose."

'* He seems a nice sort of young fellow to come into
this fine property," said Gus, with another sidelong, inquisitive
look at Fairfax. There was an air of keen

p 2

curiosity, and at the same time of sarcastic enjoyment,
on his face.

"That is the strange thing about it," said Fairfax
reflectively stroking the visionary moustache which very
lightly adorned his lip. " Paul is a very queer fellow.
He is against the idea of property. He thinks it should
all be re-divided and every man have his share. And,
what's stranger still," he added, with an exclamation,
"he's the fellow to do it if he had the chance. There
is nothing sham about him. He would strip himself
of everything as easily as I would throw off a
coat."

Against the idea of property ! " said little Gus, with
a very odd expression. He gave a long whistle of surprise
and apparent discomfiture. '' He must be a very
queer fellow indeed," he said, with an air of something
like disappointment. Why should he have been disappointed
? But this was what no one, howe-er
intimately acquainted with the circumstances, could
have told.

Yes, he is a very queer fellow. He has a great deal
in him. One thing that makes me a little uncomfortable
" continued Fairfax, unconsciously falling more and

more into a confidential tone, 'ris that I don't know
how he may take my being here'

How should he take it ? you are his friend, you
said ? "

Ye-es ; oh, we've always been very good friends,
and one time and another have seen a great deal of each
other. Still, you may like a fellow' well enough among
men, and not care to see him domesticated, you know,
in your home. Besides, he might think I had put
myself in the way on purpose to curry favour when Sir
William was ill — or — I don't know what he might think.
It seems shabby somehow to be li^^ng with your friend's
people when your friend isn't there."

'especially if he ought to be there, and you are
doing his work."

Perhaps," Fairfax said ; and they walked down to
the end of the avenue in silence. Mr. Gus had sot a
great deal to think of from this interview. A new
light had come into his mind — and somehow, strangely,
it was not at first an entirely agreeable light. He went
along for some way without saying anything, going out
of the great gates, and into the high road, which was so
quiet. A country cart lumbering past now and then,

or a farmer's gig, the sharp trot of a horse carrying a
groom from some other great house to inquire after Sir
William, gave a little more movement to the rural
stillness, increasing the cheerfulness, though the
occasion was of the saddest ; and as they approached the
village, a woman came out from a cottage door, and,
making her homely curtsey, asked the same question.

My lady will be in a sad way' this humble inquirer
said. It was of my lady more than of Sir William that
the rustic neighbours thought.

''My lady's a great person hereabout," said Mr. Gus,
with a look that was half spiteful. " I wonder how she
will like it when the property goes away from her. She
will not take it so easily as Paul."

No," said Fairfax, rousing up in defence, 'rit is not
likely she would take it easily ; she has all her children
to think of It is to be hoped Paul will have sense
enough to provide for the children before he lets it go
out of his hands."

"Ah!" This again seemed to be a new light to
Gus. " Your Lady Markham would have nothing to say
to me," he said, after a pause. "She sent me off fast
enough. She neither knows who I am, nor wants to

know. Perhaps it ayouM be better both for her and
the children if she had been a little more civil."

It was Fairfax's turn to look at him now, which he
did with quite a new curiosity. He could not understand
in what possible way it might be to Lady Markham's
advantage to be civil to the little gentleman
whom no one knew anything about ; then it occurred to
him suddenly that the uncles who appear mysteriously
from far countries with heaps of money to bestow, and
who present themselves incognito to test their families,
are not strictly confined to novels and the stage. Now
and then such a thing has happened, or has been said
to happen, in real life. Could this be an instance ? He
was puzzled and he was amused by the idea. Mr. Gus
did not look like the possessor of a colossal fortune
looking for an heir ; nor, though Lady Markham thought
him nearly as old-looking as Sir William, did he seem
to Fairfax old enough to adopt a simply beneficent role.
Still, there seemed no other way to account for this half
threat. It was all Fairfax could do to restrain his inclination
to laugh ; but he did so, and exerted himself
at once to restore Lady Markham to his companion's
good opinion.

You must remember," he said — 'rand all we have
been saying proves how much both j^ou and I are convinced
of it — that Sir William is very ill. His wife's
mind is entirely occupied with him, and she is anxious
about Paul. Indeed, can any one doubt that she has a
great many anxieties very overwhelming to a woman
who has been taken care of all her life ? Fancy, should
anything happen to Sir William, what a charge upon
her shoulders ! The wonder to me is that she can see
any one ; indeed she does not see any one. And if she
does not know, as you say, who you are "

'' No," said Mr. Gus. Something which sounded half
like a chuckle of satisfaction, and half a note of offence,
was in his voice. He was like a mischievous school-boy
delighted with the effect of a mystification, yet at the
same time angry that he had not been found out. " She
knows nothing about me," he said, with a half-laugh.
Just then they had reached the Markham Arms, into
which Fairfax followed him without thinking. They
went into the little parlour, which was somewhat gloomy
on this dull day, and green with the shadow of the
honeysuckle which hung so delightfully over the window
when the sun was shining, but darkened the room now

-*

with its wreaths of obtrusive foliage, glistening in the
soft summer drizzle. " Come in, come in," said Mr. Gus,
pushing the chair, which was miscalled easy, towards
his visitor, and shivering slightly ; " nobody knows anything
about me here : and if this is what you call
summer, I wish I had never left Barbados. I can tell
you, Mr. Fairfax, it was not a reception like this I looked
for when I came here."

Probably," said Fairfax, hitting the mark at a
venture, "it is only Sir William himself who is
acquainted with all the family relations — and as he is
ill and disabled, of course he does not even know that
you are here."

*'He does know that I am here," cried the little
gentleman, bursting with his grievance. It had come
to that pitch that he could not keep silence any longer,
and shut this all up in his own breast. " I wrote to let
him know I had come. I should think he did know
about his relations ; and I — I can tell you, I'm a mach
nearer relation than any one here is aware."

Fairfax received this intimation quite calmly ; he
was not excited. Indeed it did not convey to him
any kind of emotion. What did the matter? Uncle

or distant cousin, it was of very little consequence.
He said, placidly —

'' The village looks very pretty from this window. Are
you comfortable here ? "

Comfortable 1 " echoed Gus. '' Do you think I came
all this way across the sea to shut myself up in a
village public-house ? I didn't even know what a
village public-house was. I knew that house up there,
and had known it all my life. I've got a drawing of it
I'll show you, as like as anything ever was. Do you
suppose I thought I would ever be sent away from
there ? I — oh, but you don't know, you can't suppose,
how near a relation I am."

Fairfax thought the little man must be a monomaniac
on this subject of his relationship to the Markhams.
He thought it was but another instance of the wonderful
way in which people worship family and descent. He
himself having none of these things had marked often,
with the keenness of a man who is beyond the temptation,
the exaggerated importance which most people
gave to them. Sir William Markham, it might be said,
was a man whom it was worth while to be related to ;
but it did not matter what poor bit of a squire it was,

Fairfax thought; a man who could boast himself the
cousin of Hodge of Claypits was socially a better man
than the best man who was related to nobody. What
a strange thing this kind of test was 1 To belong to a
famous historical family, or to be connected with people
of eminent acquirements, he could understand that
there might be a pride in that ; but the poorest little
common-place family that had vegetated at one place
for a century or two ! He did not make any answer
to Mr. Gus, but smiled at him, and yet compassionate
him — this poor little fellow who had come over here
from the tropics with his head full of the glory of
the Markhams, and now had nothing better to do
than to sit in this little inn parlour and brag of his
relationship to them ; it was very pitiful, and yet it was
ludicrous too.

''I wonder," he sd suddenly, "whether they could
put me up here ? 1 want to go, and yet I don't want
to be away, if you can understand that. If anything
were to happen, and Markham not here "

'' I should be here," said Gus. " I tell you you
haven't the least idea how near a relation I am. Lady
Markham may be as high and mighty as she likes, but

it would be better for her if she were a little civil.
She doesn't know the power that a man may have
whom she chooses to slight. And I can tell you my
papers are all in order. There are no registers wanting
or certificates, or anything to be put a question upon ;
uncle took care of that. Though he adopted me, and
had the intention of making me his heir (if he had
left anything to be heir to), he always took the greatest
care of all my papers. And he used to say to me,
Look here, Gus, if anything should happen to me,
here's what will set you up, my boy.' I never thought
much about it so long as he was living, I thought things
were going better than they were ; and when the smash
came I took a little time to pick myself up. Then I
thought I'd do what he always advised — I'd come home.
But if any one had told me I was to be living here, ina
bit of a tavern, and nobody knowing who I am, I
should not have believed a word."

"It is very unfortunate," said Fairfax; 'but of
course it is because of Sir William's illness — that could
not have been foreseen."

No, to be sure it could not have been foreseen,"
Gus said ; then roused himself again in the might of

his injury. '' But if you could guess, if you could so

much as imagine, who I real' am "

Fairfax looked at him with curiosity. It was strange
to see the vehemence in his face : but Gus was unmarried
beyond self-control. He could not help letting
himself out, getting the relief of disclosure. He
leant across the little shining mahogany table and
whispered a few words into Fairfax's ear.

What does the doctor say ? "

Oh, Mr. Fairfax ! worse, far worse than nothing !
He looks at us as if his heart would break. He has
known us all our lives. He steals out through the
garden not to see me. But I know what he means, I
know very well what he means," Alice said with
irretrievable tears.

But the other one from London — Sir Thomas : he
is comines ? "

This afternoon : but it will not do any good. Mr.
Fairfax, will you telegraph once more to Paul ? I
don't think he believes us. Tell him that papa "

Don't say any more. Miss Markham ; I understand.
But one moment," said Fairfax ; " Paul will not like
to find me here. No, there is no reason why — we have

never quarrelled. But he will not like to find me
here."

•'' You have been very kind, very good to us, Mr.
Fairfax ; you have stayed and helped us when there
was no one else ; you have always been a — comfort.
But then it must have been very, very dismal and
gloomy for you to be in a house where there was
nothing but trouble' Alice said.

Her pretty eyes were swimming in tears. It gave
her a little pang to think that perhaps this visitor,
though he had been so kind, had been staying out of
mere civility, and thinking it hard. It was not oat of
any other feeling in her mind that she was aware of;
but to think that Fairfax had been lons^insf to set away
perhaps, feeling the tedium of his stay, gave her a
sharp little shock of pain.

"Do not speak so — pray do not speak so," said
Fairfax, distressed. " That is not the reason. But I
think I will go to the village. There I can be at hand
whatever is wanted. You will know that I am ready
by night or day — but I have no right to be here."

Alice looked at him, scarcely seeing him through the
great tears with which her eyes were brimming over.

She put out her hand with a tremulous gesture of
appeal.

Then you think," she said, in a voice which was
scarcely louder than a whisper, 'you think — it is very
near {

Fairfax felt that he could not explain himself In
the very presence of death could any one pause to
think that Paul might find a visitor intrusive, or that
the visitor himself might be conscious of a false
position ?

No," he said, *' no : how can I tell ? I have not
seen him. I could not be a judge. It is on Paul's
account.; but I shall be at the village — always at hand
whatever you may want."

This reassured her a little, and the glimmer of a
feeble smile came on her face. She gave him her
trembling hand for a moment. He had been very
*' kind." It was not a word that expressed his devotion,
but Alice did not know what other to use :
very — very kind.

The house will seem more empty still if you go.
It looks so lonely," srdd Alice ; " like what it used to
be when they were away in town and we left behind.

Oh, if that were all ! Paul ought to have been here
all the time, and you have taken his place. It is
unjust that you should go when he comes."

'* I shall not go," said Fairfax softly. He had held
her hand in his for a moment — only for a moment.
Alice, in her grief, was soothed by his sympathy ; but
Fairfax, on the other hand, was very well aware that
he must take no advantage of that sympathy. He
would have liked to kiss the trembling hand in an
effusion of tender pity, and if it had been Lady Markham
he might have done so ; but it was Alice, and he
dared not. He held himself aloof by main strength,
keeping himself from even a word nitre. There was
almost a little chill in it to the girl, whose heart was
full of trouble and pain, and whose tearful eyes appealed
unconsciously to that 'kindness" in which she had
such confidence. To be deserted by any one, at such a
moment would have seemed hard to her. The house
was oppressed by the slow rolling-up of this cloud,
which was about to overcloud all their life.

Lady Markham now scarcely left the sick-room at all.
When they warned her that she would exhaust herself,
that she would not be able to bear the strain, she would

VOL. II. Q

shake her head with a woeful sort of smile. She was
not of the kind that breaks down. She was sure of
herself so long as she should be wanted, and afterwards,
what did it matter ? Now and then she would come
out and take a turn or two along the corridor, rather
because of the restlessness of anguish that would take
possession of her than from any desire to " change the
air," as the nurse said. And when she was out of the
room Sir William's worn eyes would watch the door.
*' Don't leave me alone," he said to her in his feeble
voice. He had grown very feeble now. For by far the
greater part of the time he was occupied entirely with
his bodily sufferings ; but now and then it would occur
to him that there was something in his pocket-book,
something that would give a great deal of trouble —
and that there was somebody who wanted to see him
and to force an explanation. How was he able in his
weak state, to give any explanation ? He had entreated
his wife at first not to allow him to be disturbed, and
now as everything grew dimmer, he could not bear that
she should leave him. There was protection in her
presence. At times it occurred to him that his enemy
was lurking outside, and that all his attendants could

do was to keep the intruder at bay. Now and then he
would hear a step in the corridor, which no doubt was
his : but the nurses were all faithful, and the dangerous
visitor was never let in. At these moments Sir William
turned his feeble head to look for his wife. She w.juld
protect him. As he went further and further, deeper
and deeper, into the valley of the shadow, he forgot
even what the danger was ; but the idea haunted him
still. All this time he had never asked for Paul. He
had not wished to see any one, only to have his room
well watched and guarded, and nobody allowed to
disturb him. ^Yhen the doctors came there was always
a thrill of alarm in his mind — not for his own condition,
as might have been supposed, but lest in their train or
under some disguise the man who was his enemy might
get admission. And thus, without any alarm in respect
to himself, without any personal uneasiness about what
was coming, he descended gradually the fatal slope.
The thought of death never occurred to him at all.
No solemn alarm was his, not even any consciousness
of what might be coming. He never breathed a word
as to what he wished to be done, or gave any directions.
In short, he did not apparently think much of his

Q 2

illness. The idea of a dangerous and disagreeable visitor
who would go away again if no notice was taken of
him, and of whom it was expedient to take no notice,
was the master idea in his mind, and with all the
strength he had he kept this danger secret — it was all
the exertion of which he was now capable.

And to be a visitor in the house at such a melancholy-moment
was most embarrassing. There are some people
who have a special knack of mixing themselves up in
the affairs of others, and Fairfax was one of these. He
was himself strangely isolated and alone in the world ,
and it seemed to him that he had never found so much
interest in anything as in this family story into the midst
of which he had been so suddenly thrown. Almost
before he had become acquainted with them, circumstances
had made him useful, and for the moment
necessary, to them. He was an intruder, yet he was
doing the work of a son. And then in those long
summer evenings which Lady Markham spent in her
husband's sickroom, what a strange charmed life the
young man had drifted into ! When the children went
to bed, Alice would leave the great drawings-room
blazing( \vith lights, for that smaller room at the end

which was Lady markham's sanctuary, and which was
scarcely lighted at all, and there the two young people
would sit alone, waiting for Lady Markham's appearance
or for news from the sick-room, with only one dim
lariip burning, and the summer moonlight coming in
through the little golden-tinted panes of the great
Elizabethan window. Sometimes they scarcely said
anything to each other, the anxiety which was the very
atmosphere of the house hushing them into watchfulness
and listening which forbade speech ; but sometimes,
on the other hand, they would talk in half whispers,
making to each other without know-irjg it, many disclosures
both of their young lives and characters, which
advanced them altogether beyond that knowledge of
each other w which ordinary acquaintances possess.

Nothing like love, it need not be said, was in those
bits of intercourse, broken sometimes by a hasty
summons from the sick-room to Alice, or a hurried
commission to Fairfax — a telegram that had to be
answered, or something that it was necessary to explain
to the doctor. In the inter-als of these duties, which
seemed as natural to the one as to the other, the girl
and the young man would talk or would be silent,

somehow pleased and soothed mutually by each other's
presence, though neither was conscious of thinking of
the other. Alice at least was not conscious. She felt
that it was " a comfort " that he should be there,
so sympathetic, so kind, ready to go anywhere at a
moment's notice ; and she had come to be able to say
to him " Go " or " Come " without hesitation, and to
take for granted his willing service. But it was scarcely
to be expected that Fairfax should be unconscious of
the strangeness of the union which was invisibly forming
itself between them. At first a certain amusement had
mixed with the natural surprise of suddenly finding
himself in circumstances so strange ; but it must be
allowed that by degrees Fairfax came to think Sir
William's illness a fortunate chance, and so long as
imminent danger was not thought of, had no objection
to its continuance.

But things had become more grave from day to day.
Sir William, without doubt, seemed going to die, and
Paul did not come, and the stranger's services became
more and more necessary, yet more and more incongruous
with the circumstances of the house. The whole
came to a climax when Gus whispered that revelation

across the table in the inn parlour. The excitement
and distress with which Fairfax received it is not to
be described. Could it be true ? Certainly Gus was
absolutely convinced of its truth, and unaware of any
possibility of denial. Fairfax asked himself, with a
perplexity more serious than he had ever known in
his life before, what he ought to do. Was it his duty
to say something or to say nothing ? to warn them of
the extraordinary blow that was coming, or to hold his
peace and merely look on ? When he went back up
the peaceful avenue into the house which he was
beginning to call home — the house over which one
dread cloud was hanging, but which had no prevision
of the other calamity — he felt as if he himself were a
traitor conniving at its destruction. But to whom could
he speak ? Not to Lady Markham who had so much
to bear — and Alice — to tell such a tale to Alice was
impossible. It was then that he determined at any
cost that Paul must come, and he himself go away.
That Paul would not tolerate his presence in the house
he was aware, instinctively feeling that neither could
he, in Paul's place, have borne it. And to go away
was not so easy as it once might have been ; but there

seemed no longer any question what his duty was. He
put up some of his things in a bag, and himself carried
them with him down the avenue, not able to feel otherwise
than sadly heavy and sore about the heart. He
could not abandon the ladies; but he could not stay
there any longer with that secret in his possession.
His telcOTam to Paul was in a different tone from those

o

which the ladies sent.

'' The doctors give scarcely any hope," he said. " Come
instantly. I cannot but feel myself an intruder at such
a moment ; but I will not leave till you come."

Then he went sadly with his bag to the Markham
Arms. Was it right ? Was it wrong ? It even glanced
across his mind that to establish himself there by the
side of Gus might seem to the Markhams like taking
their enemy's side against them. But what else could
he do ? He would neither intrude upon them nor
abandon them.

Fairfax calculated justly. Paul, who had resisted his
mother's appeals and his sister's entreaties, obeyed at
once the imperative message of the man who threw the
light of outside opinion and common necessity upon the
situation. He arrived that night, just after the great

London physician, who had come down to pronounce
upon Sir William's condition, had been driven to the
railway. Paul had no carriage sent for him, and had
said to himself that it was all an exaggeration and piece
of folly, since some one from Markham was evidently
dining out. There were, however, all the signs of
melancholy excitement which usually follow such a visit
visible in the hall and about the house when he reached
it. Brown and one of his subordinates were standing
talking in low tones on the great steps, .shaking their
heads as they conversed. Mr. Brown himself had
managed to change his usually cheerful countenance into
the semblance of that which is characteristic of an
undertaker's mute.

•' I knew how it would be the moment I set eyes
upon him," Mr. Brown was saying. "Death was in
his face, if it ever was in a man's."

Paul sprang from the lumbering old fly which he had
found at the station with a mixture of eagerness and
incredulity.

How is my father ? " he said.

Oh, sir, you're come none too soon," said Brown,
Sir William is as bad as bad can be." And then Alice,

hearing something, she did not know what, rushed out.
Every sound was full of terror in the oppressed house.
She flung herself upon her brother and wept. There
was no need to say anything ; and Paul who had been
lingering, thinking they did not mean what they said,
believing it to be a device to get him seduced into
that dangerous stronghold of his enemy's house, was
overcome too.

Why did not I hear before ? " he said. But
nobody bid him remember that he had been told a
dozen times before.

Sir William was very ill that night. He began to
wander, and said things in his confused and broken
utterance which were very mysterious to the listeners.
But as none of them had any clue to what these wanderings
meant, they did not add, as they might have
done, to the misery of the night. There was no rest for
any one during those tedious hours. The children and
the inferior servants went to bed as usual, but the elder
ones, and those domestics who had been long in the
family, could not rest any more than could those individually
concerned ; the excitement of that gloomy expectation
got into their veins. Mrs. Fry was up and down

all night, and Brown lay on a sofa in the housekeeper's
room, from which he appeared at intervals looking very
wretched and troubled, with that air of half-fearing half
hoping the worst, which gets into the faces of those who
stand about the outer chamber where death has shown
his face. Nothing however " happened " that night.
The day began again, and life, galvanised into a haggard
copy of itself, with all the meals put upon the table as
usual. The chief figure in this new day, in this renewed
vigil, was Paul, who, always important in the
house, was now doubly important as so soon to be master
of all. The servants were all very careful of him that
he should not be troubled ; messages and commissions
which the day before would have been handed unceremoniously
to Fairfax, were now managed by Brown
himself as best he could rather than trouble Mr. Paul ;
and even Mrs. Fry was more anxious that he should lie
down and rest, than even that Alice, her favourite,
should be spared.

'' It will all come upon him after" the housekeeper
said.

As for Paul himself, the effect upon him was very-great.
Perhaps it was because of the profound dissatisfaction

in bis mind with all his own plans, that he had so long
resisted the call to come home. Since his father had
left Oxford, Paul had gone through many chapters of
experience. Every day had made him more discontented
with his future associates, more secretly appalled by the
idea that the rest of his life was to be spent entirely
among them. He had left his rooms in college, and
gone into some very homely ones not far from Spears's,
by way of accustoming himself to his new life. This
was a things he had honos intended to do, and he had
been angry with himself for his weak-minded regard for
personal comfort, but unfortunately his enthusiasm had
begun to sink into disgust before he took this step, and
his loathing for the little mean rooms, the narrow street
full of crowding children and evil odours was intense.
That he had forced himself to remain, notwithstanding
this loathing, was perhaps all the worse for his plans.
He would not yield to his own disgust, but it inspired
him with a secret horror and opposition far more important
than this mere dislike of his surroundings. He
saw that none of the others minded those things, which
made his existence miserable. Even Spears, whose
perceptions in some respects were delicate, did not

smell the smell, nor perceive the squalor. He thought
Paul's new lodgings very handsome ; he called him Paul,
without any longer even the apologetic smile which at
first accompanied that familiarity, as a matter of course.
And Janet gave him no peace. She called him out with
little beckoning and signs. She was always in the way
when he came or went. She took the charge of him,
telling him what he ous^ht to do and what not to do,
with an attempt at that petty tyranny which a woman
who is loved may exercise with impunity, but which
becomes intolerable in any other.

It was thus with a kind of fierce determination to
remain faithful to his convictions that Paul had set
himself like a rock against all the appeals from home.
His convictions ! These convictions gradually resolved
themselves into a conviction of the utter unendurable-ness
of life, under the conditions which he had chosen, as
day by day went on. Nothing, he had resolved, should
make him yield, or own himself mistaken — nothing-would
induce him to give up the cause to which he
had pledged himself. But now that at last he had
been driven out of that stronghold, and forced to leave
the surroundings he hated, and come back to those that

were natural to him, Paul's mind was in a chaos indescribable.
After the first burst of penitence and remorse,
there had stolen on him a sense of well-being, a charm of
association which he strove to struggle against, but in vain.
He was grieved, deeply grieved for his father ; but is it
possible that in the mind of a young heir, aware of all
the incalculable differences in his own life which the
end of his father's must make, there should not be a
quivering excitement of the future mingling with the
sorrow of the present, however sincere ? When he went
out in the mornings, after the feverishness of that agitated
night, to feel the fresh air in his face, and saw around
him all the spreading woods, all the wealthy and noble
grace of the old house which an hour or moment, might
make his own, a strangle convulsion shook his beings.
Was not he pledged to give all up, to relinquish everything
— to share whatever he had with his brother, and,
leave all belonging to him ? The question brought a
deadly faintness over him. While he stood under the
trees looking at his home, he seemed to see the keen
eyes of the Scotsman, Fraser, inspecting the place, and
Short jotting down calculations on a bit of paper as
to what would be the value of the materials, and how

many villas semi-detached might be built on the site
while Spears, perhaps, patted him on the shoulder,
and bid him remember that even if he had not given it
up, this could not have lasted, — " the country would not
stand it long." He seemed to see and hear them
discussing his fate ; and Janet, standing at the door,
making signs to him with her hand. \^Tiat had he todo
here ? It was to that society he belonged. Nevertheless,
Paul's heart quivered with a strange excitement
when he thought that tomorrow — perhaps this
very night ! — And then he bethought himself of the
darkened room upstairs, and his mother's lingering
Avatch ; and his heart contracted with a sudden pang.

Next evening it was apparent that the end was
at hand. Just as the sun went down, when the soft
greyness of the summer twilight began to steal into
the air, the children were sent for into Sir William's
room. They thronged in with pale faces and wide open
eyes, having been bidden not to cry — not to disturb the
quiet of the death chamber. The windows were all
open, the sky appearing in wistful stretches of clearness;
but near the bed, in the shadow, a shaded lamp burned
solemnly, and the window beyond showed gleams of

lurid colour in the western sky, barred by strong black
lines of cloud. These black lines of cloud, and the
mysterious shining of the lamp, gave a strange air of
solemnity to the room, all filled already by the awe and
wonder of death. A sob of mingled grief and terror
burst from little Marie, as grasping her sister's hand
convulsively, she followed Alice to her father's bedside.
Was it he that lay there, propped up with cushions,
breathing so hard and painfully ? The boys stood at the
foot of the bed. Their hearts were full of that dreary
anguish of the unaccustomed and unknown, which gives
additional depth to every sorrow of early youth. Alice,
who had taken her place close to the head of the bed
had lost this. She knew all about it, poor child — what
to do for him ; what was coming ; all that should be
administered to him. She was as pale as those pale
stretches of sky, and like them in the clear pathetic
wistfulness of her face ; but she had something to do,
and she was not afraid.

William — are you able to say anything to the
children ? " said Lady Markham. " They have all come

to see you — to ask how you are " She could not

say, " to bid you farewell ; " that was not possible.

Her voice was quite steady and calm. The time
was coming when she would be able to weep, but
not now.

He opened his eyes and looked at them with a faint
smile He had always been good to the children. At
his most busy moment they had never been afraid of
him. Little Bell held her breath, opening her eyes
wider and wider to keep down that passion of tears
which was coming, while Marie clung to her, trying to
imitate her, but with the tears already come, and
making binding reflections of the solemn lamp and the
evenings liorht.

Ah, yes, the children," Sir William said. '' I have
not seen them since Sunday. They have been very
good — and kind ; they have not — made any noise.
Who is that ? I thought — I heard — some one"

"Nobody, papa," said Alice — 'nobody — except all
of us."

''Ah! all of you' he said, and gave one of those
panting, hard-drawn breaths which were so terrible to
hear.

The door was open, like the windows, to give all the
air possible. The servants were, standing about the

VOL. n. R

stairs and in the passages. Everybody knew that the
last act was about to be performed solemnly, and the
master of the house on the eve of his going away.
Most of the Avoient were crying, Even when it is
nothing to you, what event is there that can be so
much as this final going — this departure into the
unseen ? There was a general hush of awe and excitement.
And how it was that amidst them all that
stranger managed to get entrance, to walk up stairs,
to thread through the mournful group, no one ever
knew. His step was audible, even among that agitated
company, as he came along the corridor. They all
heard it, with a certain sense of alarm. "Was it the
doctor coming back again with something new he had

thought of, or was it

Ah, all of you," Sir William said ; and as he spoke
the words the new-comer came in at the door. He
walked up to the foot of the bed, no one molesting him.
They were all struck dumb with surprise ; and what
could they have done, when a momentary tumult or
scuffle would have killed the sufferer at once ? For the
moment every eye was turned from Sir William, and
directed to Mr. Gus in his liszt clothes, with his little

brown face, so distinct from all the others. He came
up close to the foot of the bed.

Yes, all of us, no^Y I am here," he said. " I am
sorry to disturb you at such a time ; but, Sir William
Markham, you'll have to own me before you die."

Paul made a hasty step towards him, and put a hand
upon his shoulder.

Don't you see," he said. " Go away, for God's sake.
Whatever you want I'll attend to you after."

"TW not go away," said Gus. " I must stand for my
rights, even if he is dying. Sir William Markham, it's
your own doing. I have given you wamini;^. You'll
have to own me before you die."

Paul, beside himself, seized the stranger by the
shoulders ; but Gus, though he was small, was strong.

Don't make a scuffle' he said in a low tone ; " I
won't go, but I'll make no disturbance. He's going to
speak. Be still, you, and listen to what he says."

Sir William signed impatiently to his attendants on

each side — Alice and her mother — to raise him. He

looked round him, feebly peering into the waning light.

" They are beginning to fight — over my bed," he

said, with a quiver in his voice.

E 2

'' No," said Gus, getting free from Paul's restraining
grasp. He made no noise, but he was supple and
strong, and slid out of the other's hands. " No, there
shall be no fighting ; I have more respect — but own me,
father, before you die. I'll take care of them. I'll dono
one any harm, I swear before God ; but own me
before you die."

They all stood and listened, gazing, forgetting even
the man who was dying. The very children forgot him,
and turned to the well-known countenance of the little
gentleman. Then there came a gasp, a sob, a great
quiver in the bed. Sir William flung out his emaciated
arms with a gesture of despair.

I said I was not to be disturbed," he said, and fell
back, never to be disturbed any more.

The news of Sir William Markham's death made a
great sensation in the neighbourhood. It was as if a
great house had fallen to the ground, a great tree been
riven up by the roots. There are some people whom no
one expects ever to die, and he was one of them. There
seemed so much for him to do in the world. He was so
full of occupation, so well qualified to do it, so precise
and orderly in all his ways, every moment of his time
filled up, he did not seem to have leisure for all the
troublesome preliminaries of dying. But as it happened,
he had found the time for them, as we all do, and everybody
was astonished. It was whispered in the county
that there had been " a very strange scene at the deathbed,"
and everybody concluded that this was somehow
connected with the heir, it being well known that Paul

had only appeared the day before his father's death.
Some vague rumours on this score flew about in the
days which elapsed before the funeral, but nobody could
tell the rights of the story, and it had already begun toto
fade before the great pomp and ceremonial of the
funeral day. This was to be a very great day at
Markham Royal. In the Markham Arms all the stables
were getting cleared out, in preparation for the horses
of the gentry who would collect from far and near to pay
honour to the last scene in which the member for the
county would ever play any part ; and all the village was
roused in expectation. No doubt it was a very solemn
and sad ceremonial, and Markham Royal knew that it
had lost its best friend ; but, notwithstanding, any kind
of excitement is pleasant in the country, and they liked
this well enough in default of better. The little gentleman
too, who was living at the Markham Arms, was a
great diversion to the village. He gave himself the air
of superintending everything that was done at the
Markham burying place. He went about it solemnly
as if it could by any possibility be his business— and
he put on all the semblance of one who has lost a near
relation. He put away his light clothes, and appeared

in black, with a list-band which almost covered his tall
hat. The village people felt it very natural that the
little gentleman should be proud of his relationship
to the Markhams, and should take such a good opportunity
of showing it ; but those who knew about such
matters laughed a little at the size of his hatband.
If he had been a son it could not have been larger.
Sir Paul himself could not do more," Mr. Remnant,
the draper, said.

It happened that Dolly Stainforth was early astir on
the funeral morning. She thought it right to get all her
parish work over at an early hour, for the village would
be full of '•' company," and indeed Dory was aware that
even in the rectory itself there would be a great many
people to luncheon, and that her father's stables would
be as full of horses as those of the Markham Arms. She
was full of excitement and grief herself, partly for Sir
William whom she had known aU her life, but still more
for Alice and Lady Markham, for whom the girl grieved
as if their grief had been her own. She had put on
a black frock to be so far in sympathy with her
friends, and before the deva* was off the flowers, had
gathered all she could find in the rectory garden, and

made them into wreaths and crosses. This is an
occupation which soothes the sympathetic mourner.
She stood under the shadow of a little mosque on the
slope of the rectory garden which looked towards the
churchyard, and worked silently at this labour of love,
a tear now and then falling upon the roses still wet
with morning: dew. From where she stood she could
see the preparations in the great Markham burying
place; the sexton superintending the place prepared in
which Sir William was to lie with his father, the lydgate
under which the procession would pause as they
entered, and the path by which they would sweep
round to the church. That which was about to happen
so soon seemed already to be happening before her eyes.
The tears streamed down Dolly's fresh morning cheeks.
To die, to be put away under the cold turf, to leave the
warm precincts of the cheerful day, seems terrible indeed
to a creature so young as she was, so full of life, and on
a summer morning all brimming over with melody and
beauty. When she shook the tears off her eyelashes she
saw a solitary figure coming through the churchyard,
pausing for a moment to look at the grave, then
turning towards the gate which led into the rectory

garden. Dolly put the wreath she was making on her
arm, and hastened to meet him. Her heart beat ; it
was full of sorrow and pity, and yet of excitement too.
She went to him with the tears once more streaming
from her pretty eyes. " Oh Paul ! " she said, putting
her hand into his, and able to say no more. Of late she
had begun to call him Mr. Markham, feeling shy of her
old playfellow and of herself, but she could not stand
upon her dignity now. She would have liked to throw
her arms round his neck, to console him, to have called
him dear Paul. In his trouble it seemed impossible todo
too much for him. And Paul on his side took the
little hand in both his, and held it fast. The tears rose
to his eyes too. He was very grown up, very tall and
solemn, and his mind was full of many a serious
thought — but when he had little Dolly by the hand the
softest influence of which he was susceptible came
over him. " Thank you, Dolly," he said, with quivering
lips.

"How are they?" said the little girl, coming very
close to his side, and looking up at him with her wet
eyes.

Oh, how can they be ? " said Paul ; " my mother is

worn out, she cannot feel it yet : and Alice is with her
night and day."

"Will they come?" said Dolly, with a sob in her
voice''

I fear so ; it is too much for them. But I am afraid
they will come, whatever I may say."

'' Oh, don't you think it is best ? Then they will
feel that they have not left him, not for a moment,
nor failed him, as long as there was anything to do."

But that makes it all the worse when there is
nothing to do. I fear for my mother."

She has got you, Paul — and the children."
Yes, me ; and I did not come till the last. Did you
hear that, Dolly ? — that I wasted all the time when he
was dying, and was only here the last day ? "

Dear Paul," said Dolly, giving him her hand again,
*' you did not mean it. Do you think he does not
know now ? Oh, you may be sure he understands ! "
she cried, with that confidence in the advancement of
the dead above all petty frailties which is so touching
and so universal.

I hope so," Paul said, with quivering lips ; and ashe
stood here, with this soft hand clasping his, and this

familiar, almost childish, voice consoHDg him, Paul felt
as if he had awakened out of a dream. This was the
place he belonged to, not the squalid dream to vrhich he
had driven himself Standing under those beautiful
trees, with this soft, fair innocent creature comprehending
and consoling him, there suddenly flashed before his
eyes a vision of a narrow street, the lamp-post, the
children shouting and fighting, and another creature,
who did not at all understand him, standing close
by him, pressing her advice upon him, looking up
at him with eager eyes. A sudden horror seized
him even while he felt the softness of Dolly's consoling
touch and voice. It quickened the beating of
his heart and brought a faintness of terror like a film
over his eyes.

'come and sit down," said Dolly, alarmed. "You
are so pale. Oh, Paul, sit down, and I will run and
bring you something. You have been shutting yourself
up too much ; you have been making yourself ill. Oh,
Paul ! you must not reproach yourself You must
remember how much there is to do."

Do not leave me, Dolly. I am going to speak to
the rector. I am not ill — it was only a sudden

recollection that came over me. I have not been so
good a son as I ought to have been."

Oh, Paul ! he sees now — he sees that you never
meant it," Dolly said. ''Do you think they are like us,
thinking only of the outside ? And you have your
mother to think of now."

'' And so I will," he said, with a softening rush of
tears to his eyes. 'come in with me, Dolly."

Dolly was used to comforting people who were in
trouble. She did not take away her hand, but went in
with him very quietly, like a child, leading the young
man who was so deeply moved. Her own heart was ina
great flutter and commotion, but she kept very still,
and led him to her father's study and opened the door
for him. " Here is Paul, papa," she said, as if Paul
had been a boy again, coming with an exercise, or to be
scolded for some folly he had done. But afterwards
Dolly went back to her wreaths with her heart beating
very wildly. She was ashamed and angry with herself
that it should be so on such a day — the morning of the
funeral. But then 'it is so in nature, let us chide as
we will. One day ends weeping, and the next thrusts
its recollection away with sunshine. Already the new

springs of life were beginning to burst forth from the
very edges of the grave.

When Paul went away after this last bit of melancholy
business (he had come to tell the rector what the hymn
was which his mother wished to be sung) he did not see
Dolly assail. She was putting all her flowers ready
with which to cover the darkness of the coffin — a tender
expedient which has everywhere suggested itself to
humanity. He went away through the early sunshine,
walking with a subdued and measured tread as a man
enters a church not to disturb the worshippers. In
Paul's own mind there was a feeling like that of convalescence
— the sense of something painful behind yet
hopeful before — the faintness and weakness, yet renewal
of life, which comes after an illness. There was no
anguish in his grief, nor had there been after the first
agony of self-reproach which he had experienced, when
he perceived the cruelty of his lingering and reluctance
to obey his mother's call. But that was over. He had
at least done his duty at the last, and now the feeling
in Paul's mind was more that of respectful compassion
for his father now withdrawn out of all the happiness of
his life, than of any sorer, more personal sentiment.

The loss of him was not a thing against which his son's
whole soul cried out as darkening heaven and earth to
himself. The loss of a child has this effect upon a
parent, but that of a parent seldom so affects a child ;
yet he was sorry, with almost a compunctious sense of
the happiness of living, for his father who had lost
that — who had been obliged to give up wife and children,
and his happy domestic life, and his property and
influence, and the beautiful world and the daylight.
At this thought his heart bled for Sir William ; yet for
himself beat softly with a sense of unbounded opening
and expansion and new possibility. As he walked
softly home, his step instinctively so sobered and gentle,
his demeanour so subdued, the thoughts that possessed
him were such as he had never experienced before.
They possessed him indeed; they were not voluntary,
not originated by any will of his, but swept through
him as on the wings of the wind, or gently floated
into him, filling every nook and corner. He was no
longer the same being; the moody, viewy, rebellious
young man who was about to emigrate with Spears, to
join a little rude community of colonists and work with
his hands for his daily bread and sacrifice all his better

knowledge, all the culture of a higher social caste, to
rough equality and primitive justice — had died with
Sir William. All that seemed to be years behind him.
Sometimes his late associates appeared to him as if in a
dream, as the discomforts of a past journey or the
perils that we have overcome, flash upon us in sudden
pictures. He saw Spears and Fraser and the rest for a
moment gleaming out of the darkness, as he might
have seen a precipice in the Alps on the edge of which
for a moment he had hung. It was not that he had
given them up ; it was that in a moment they had become
impossible. He walked on, subdued, in his strange
convalescence, with a kind of content and resignation
and sense of submission. A man newly out of a fever,
submits sweetly to all the immediate restraints that
suit his weakness. He does not insist upon exercises or
indulgences of which he feels incapable, but recognises
with a grateful sense of trouble over, the duty of submitting.
This was how Paul felt. He was not glad,
but there was in his veins a curious elation, expansion,
a rising tide of new life. He had to cross the village
street on bis way home, and there all the people he met
took off their hats or made their curtseys with a

reverential respect that arose half out of respect for his
new dignities, and half out of sympathy for the son who
had lost his father. Just when his mind was soft and
tender with the sight of this universal homage, there came
up to him a strange Httle figure, all in solemn black.

You are going home," said this unknown being.
I will walk with you and talk it over ; and let us try
if we cannot arrive at an understanding "

Paul put up his hand with sudden impatience. " I
can't speak to you to-day," he said hastily.

Not to-day ? the day of our father's funeral ; that
ought to be the most suitable day of all — and indeed it
must be," the little gentleman said.

"Mr. Gaveston," said Paul, ''if that is your
name "

'' No, it is not my name," said Mr. Gus.

I suppose you lay claim to ours, then ? You have
no right. But Mr. Markham Gaveston, or whatever
you call yourself, you ought to see that this is not the
moment. I will not refuse to examine your claims at a
more appropriate time," said Paul with lofty distance.

A slight redness came over Gus's brown face. He
laughed angrily. "Yes, you will have to consider my

9r

claims," he said. Aud then after a little hesitation, he
went away. This disturbed the current of Paul's languid,
yet intense, consciousness. He felt a horror of the man
who had thus, he thought, intruded the recollection of
his father's early errors to cloud the perfect honour and
regret with which he was to be carried to his grave.
The interruption hurt and wounded him. Of course the
fellow would have to be silenced — bought off at almost
any price — rather than communicate to the world this
stigma upon the dead. By and by, however, as he
went on, the harshness of this jarring note floated away
in the intense calm and peace of the sweet atmosphere
of the morning which surrounded him. The country
was more hushed than usual, as if in sympathy with
what was to happen to-day. The very birds stirred
softly among the trees, giving place, it might have been
supposed, to that plaintive coo of the wood pigeon
'bemoaning for its mate" which is the very voice
of the woods. A soft awe seemed over all the earth — an
awe that to the young man seemed to concern as much
his own life which was, as the other which was ending.
The same awe crept into his own heart as he went
towards his home, that temple of grief and mourning,
VOL. IL s

from which all the sunshine was shut out. There
seemed to rise up within him a sudden 'sense of the
responsibilities of the future, a sudden warmth of
resolution which brought the tears to his eyes.

I will be good," said the little princess, when she

heard of the great kingdom that was coming to her ;

and Paul, though he was not a child to use that simple

phraseology, felt the same. The follies of the past were

all departed like clouds. He was the head of the family

the universal guardian. It lay with him to see that all

were cared for, all kept from evil ; the fortune of many

was in his hands ; power had come to him — real power,

not visionary uncertain influence such as he had once

thought the highest of possibilities. " I will be good "

this thought swelled up within him, filling his heart.

It was past mid-day when the procession set out ; the

whole county had come from all its comers, to do

honour to Sir William, and the parish sent forth a

humble audience, scattered along all the roads, half-sad,

half-amused by the sight of all the carriages and the

company. When they caught a glimpse of my lady in

her deep crape, the women cried : but dried their tears

to count the number of those who followed, and felt a

vague gratification in the honour done to the family.
All the men who were employed on the estate, and the
farmers, and even many people from Farboro', the market-town,
swelled the procession. Such a great funeral had
never been seen in the district. Lady Westland and
her daughter, and sirs. Booth, and the other ladies
in the parish, assembled under the rectory trees, and
watched the wonderful procession, not without much
remark on the fact that Dolly had gone to the grave with
the family, a thing which no one else had been asked todo.
It was not the ladies on the lawn, however, who
remarked the strange occurrence which surprised the
lookers-on below, and which was so soon made comprehensible
by what followed. When the procession left
the church-door, the stranger who was Having at the
Markham Arms appeared all of a sudden, in the old-fashioned
scares and hat-bands of the deepest conventional
woe, and placed himself behind the coffin, ina
line with, or indeed a little in advance of, Paul.
There was a great flutter among the professional conductors
of the ceremony when this was observed. One
of the attendants rushed to him, and took him by the
arm, and remonstrated with anxious whispers.

s 2

You can follow behind, my good gentleman — you
can follow behind," the undertaker said ; " but this is
the chief mourner's place."

It is my place," said the intruder aloud, " and I
mean to keep it."

Oh, don't you now, sir — don't you now make a
business," cried the distressed official. " Keep out of
Sir Paul's way ! "

The stranger shook the man off with a sardonic grin
which almost sent him into a fit, so appalling was it, and
contrary to all the decorum of the occasion. And what
more could any one do ? They kept him out of the
line of the procession, but they could not prevent him
from keeping up with, keeping close by Paul's side.
Indeed Mr. Gus got close to the side of the grave, and
made the responses louder than any one else, as if he
Averse indeed the chief actor in the scene. And his
appearance in all those trappings of woe, which no one
else wore, pointed him doubly out to public notice.
Indeed the undertaker approved of him for that ; it was
showing: a rio-ht feeling: — even though it was not from
himself that Mr. Gus had procured that livery of mourning.
It was he that lingered the loosest when the

mourners dispersed. This incident was very much
discussed and talked of in the parish and among the
gentlemen who had attended the funeral, during the
rest of the day. But the wonder which it excited was
light and trivial indeed in comparison with the wonders
that were soon to follow. All day long the roads were
almost gay (if it had not been wrong to use such an
expression in the circumstances) with the carriages
returning from the funeral, and the people in the roadside
cottages felt themselves at liberty to enjoy the
sight of them now that all was over, and Six WilHani
safely laid in his last bed.

'rand here's Sir Paul's 'earth," was a toast that was
many times repeated m the Markham Arms, and in all
the little alehouses where the thirsty mourners refreshed
themselves during the day ; " and if he's as
good a landlord and as good a master as his father, there
won't be much to say again' him."

There were many, however, who, remembering all
that had been said about him-the " bad company " he
kept, and his long absences from home, shook their
heads when they uttered their good wishes, and had no
confidence in Sir Paul.

The house had fallen into quiet after the gloomy
excitement of the morning. All the guests save two or
three had gone away, the shutters were opened, the
rooms full once more of soft day-light, bright and warm.
The event, Teat and terrible as it was, was over, and
ordinary life again begun.

But there was still one piece of business to do. Sir
William's will had to be read before the usual routine
of existence could be begun again. This grand winding
up of the affairs that were at an end, and setting in
motion of those which were about to begin, took place
in the library late in the afternoon, when all the
strangers had departed. The family lawyer, Colonel
Fleetwood, who was Lady Markham's brother, and old
Mr. Markham of Edge, the head of the hostile branch

which had hoped to inherit everything before Sir
William married and showed them their mistake — were
the only individuals present along with Lady Markham,
Paul, and Alice. There was nothing exciting about the
reading of this will ; no fear of eccentric dispositions,
or of any arrangement different from the just and
natural one. Besides, the family knew what it was
before it was read. It was merely a part of the sad
ceremonial which had to be gone through like the
rest. Lady Markham had placed herself as far from the
table as possible, with her face turned to the door. She
could not bear, yet, to look straight at her husband's
vacant place. Her brother stood behind her, leaning
thoughtfully against her chair, and AHce was on a low
seat by her side. The deep mourning of both the ladies
made the paleness which grief and watching had
brought more noticeable. Alice had begun to regain
a little delicate colour, but her mother was still wan
and worn. And they were very weary with the excitement
of the gloomy day, and anxious to get away and
conclude all these agitating ceremonials. Lady Markham
kept her eyes on the door. Her loss was too
recent to seem natural. What so likely as that he

should come in suddenly, and wonder to see them all
collected there ? — so much more likely, so much more
natural than to believe that for ever he was gone
away.

And in the quiet the lawyer began to read — nothing
to rouse them, nothing they did not know ; his voice,
monotonous and calm, seemed to be reading another
kind of dull burial service, unbeautiful, without any
consolation in it, but full of the heavy, level cadence of
ashes to ashes and dust to dust. Paul stirred, almost
impatiently, from time to time, and changed his
position ; it affected his nerves. And sometimes Colonel
Fleetwood would give forth a sigh, which meant
impatience too; but the others did not move. Lady
Markham's beautiful profile, marble pale, shone like a
white cameo upon the dark background of the curtains.
She was scarcely conscious what they were doing,
submitting to this last duty of all.

"When the door opened, which it did, somewhat
hastily, it startled the whole party. Lady Markham
sat up in her chair and uttered a low cry. Paul turned
round angrily. He turned to find fault with the
servant who was thus interrupting a solemn conference ;

but when he saw who the intruder really was, the
young man lost all patience.

'' This fellow again ! " he said under his breath ; and
he made one stride towards the door, where stood,
closing it carefully behind him, while he faced the
company, Mr. Gus in his black suit. He was no
coward ; he faced the young man, whom he had already
exasperated, without flinching — putting up his hand
with a deprecating, but not undignified, gesture. Paul,
who had meant nothing less than to eject him forcibly,
came to a sudden stop, and stood hesitating, uncertain,
before the self-possessed little figure. What could he
do ? He was in his house, where discourtesy was a
crime.

Keep your temper, Paul Markham," said the little
gentleman ; " I mean you no harm. You and I can't
help damaging each other ; but for heaven's sake, this
day, and before them, let's settle it with as little
disturbance as we can."

What does this mean ? " said Colonel Fleetwood :
while the lawyer rested his papers on the table, and
looked on, across them, without putting them out of
his hand.

I can't tell what it means," cried Paul. " This is
the second time this man has burst into our company,
at the most solemn moment, when my father was
dying "

Mr. Gaveston," said Lady Markham, in her
trembling voice, "I have told you that anything we

can do for you, any amends we can make But oh,

would it not be better to choose another time — to come
when we are alone — when there need be no exposure ? "

My Lady Markham," said Gus, advancing to the
table, " I don't know what you mean, but you are under
a great mistake. It is no fault of yours, and I am
sorry for Paul. I might have been disposed to accepta
compromise before I saw the place; but anyhow,
compromise or not, I must establish my rights."

This is the most extraordinary interruption of a
family in their own house," said Colonel Fleetwood.
What does it mean ? Isabel, you seem to know him ;
who is this man ? "

That is just what she does not know," said Gus,
calmly ; " and what I've come to tell you. Nothing
can be more easy ; I have all the evidence here, which
your lawyer can examine at once. I wrote to my father

when I arrived, but he took no notice. I am Sir
Augustus Markham : Sir William Markham's eldest
son — and heir''

Lady Markham rose up appalled — her lips falling
apart, her eyes opened wide in alarm, her hands clasped
together. Paul, whose head had been bent down, started,
and raised it suddenly, as if he had not heard rightly.

Good God 1 " cried Colonel Fleetwood.

Mr. Scrivener, the lawyer, put dora his papers
carefully on the table, and rose from his seat.

The man must be out of his senses," he said.

Mr. Gus looked round upon them all with excitement,
in which there was a gleam of triumph. " I am not out
of my senses. With such a wrong done to me I might
have been ; but I never knew of it till lately. And,
mind you, I don't blame them as if they knew it. If
you are the lawyer, I have brought you all the papers,
honest and above-board. There they are, my mother's
certificates and mine. Ask anybody in the island of
Barbadoes," cried Mr. Gus; 'bless you, it was not done
in a comer ; it was never made a secret of From the
Governor to the meanest black, there isn't one but
knows it all as well as I."

He had thrust a packet of papers into Mr. Scrivener's
hand, and now stood with one arm extended, like a
speaker addressing with energetic, yet conciliatory
warmth, a hostile assembly. But no one paid any
attention to Mr. Gus. The interest had gone from him
to the lawyer who was opening up with care and precaution
the different papers. Colonel Fleetwood stood
behind Mr, Scrivener eagerly reading them over his
shoulder, chafing at his coolness. " Get on, can't you ? "
he cried, under his breath. They were enough to appal
the inexperienced eye. To this astonished spectator
looking on, the lines of the marriage certificate seemed
to blaze as if written in fire. It was as if a bolt from
heaven had fallen among them. The chief sufferers
themselves were stunned by the shock of a sudden
horror which they did not realise. What did it mean ?
A kind of pale light came over Lady Markham's face :
she began to remember the Lennys and their eccentric
visit. She put out her hand as one who has begun to
grasp a possible clue.

At this moment of intense and painful bewilderment,
a sudden chuckle burst into the quiet. It was poor old
Mr. Markham, whose hopes had been disappointed, who

had never forgiven Sir William Markham's children for
being born. " Gad ! I always felt sure there was a
previous marriage' he said, mumbling with old toothless
jaws. Only the stillness of such a pause would have
made this senile voice of malice audible. Even the old
man himself was abashed to hear how audible it was.

A previous marriage ! " Colonel Fleetwood went
hurriedly to his sister, and took her by the shoulders
in fierce excitement, as if she could be to blame.
What does this mean, Isabel ? " he cried ; " did
you know of it ? did you consent to it ? does it
mean, my God ! that you have never been this man's
wife at all ? "

She turned upon him with a flash of energy and
passion. " How dare you speak of my husband so — my
husband who was honour itself and truth ?" Then the
poor lady covered her face with her hands. Her heart
sank, her strength forsook her. Who could tell what
hidden things might be revealed by the light of this
.sudden horrible illumination. " I can't tell you. I do
not know ! I do not know ! "

This will never do," said Mr. Scrivener hurriedly.
This is pre-judging the case altogether. No one can

imagine that with no more proof than these papers
(which may be genuine or not, I can't say on the spur
of the moment) we are going to believe a wild assertion

which strikes at the honour of a family "

Look here," said Mr. Gus ; his mouth began to get
dry with excitement, he could scarcely get out the
words. " Look here, there's nothing about the honour
of the family. There's nothing to torment her about.
Do you hear, you, whoever you are ! My mother,
Gussy Gaveston, died five and thirty years ago, when I
was born. Poor little thing," cried the man who washer
son, with a confusion of pathos and satisfaction, " it
was the best thing she could do. She wasn't one to live
and put other people to shame, not she. She was a bit
of a girl, with no harm in her. The man she married
was a young fellow of no account, no older than him
there, Paul , my young brother ; but all the same she
would have been Lady Markham had she lived ; and I
am her son that cost her her life, the only one of the
first family, Sir William's eldest. That's easily seen
when you look at us both," he added with a short
laugh ; " there can't be much doubt, can there, which
is the eldest, I or he ? "

Here again there was a strange pause. Colonel
Fleetwood, who was the spectator who had his '^^ts
about him, turned round upon old Mr. Markham, who
ventured to chuckle again in echo of poor Gus's harsh
little laugh, which meant no mirth. "^Tiat the devil
do you find to laugh at ?'' he said, his lip curling over
his white teeth with rage, to which he could give vent
no other way. But he was relieved of his worst fear,
and he could not help turning with a certain interest to
the intruder. Gus was not a noble figure in his old-fashioned
long-tailed black-coat, with his formal air;
but there was not the least appearance of imposture
about him. The serene air of satisfaction and self-importance
which returned to his face when the excitement
of his little speech subsided, his evident conviction
that he was in his right place, and confidence in his
position, contradicted to the eyes of the man of the
world all suggestion of fraud. He might be deceived :
but he himself believed in the rights he was claiming,
and he was not claiming them in any cruel way.

As for Paul, since his first angry explanation he had
not said a word. The young man looked like a man ina
dream. He was standing leaning against the mantelpiece,

every tinge of colour gone out of his face,
listening, but hardly seeming to understand what was
said. He had watched his mother's movements, his
uncle's passionate appeal to her, but he had not stirred.
As a matter of fact the confusion in his mind was such
that nothing was clear to him. He felt as if he had
fallen and was still falling, from some great height into
infinite space. His feet tingled, his head was light. The
sounds around him seemed blurred and uncertain, as
well as the faces. While he stood thus bewildered, two
arms suddenly surrounded his, embracing it, clinging to
him. Paul pressed these clinging hands mechanically
to his side, and felt a certain melting, a softness of
consolation and support. But whether it was Dolly
whispering comfort to him in sight of his father's grave,
or Alice bidding him take courage in the midst of a new
confusing imbroglio of pain and excitement, he could
scarcely have told. Then, however, voices more distinct
came to him, voices quite steady and calm, in their
ordinary tones.

After this interruption it will be better to go
no further," the lawyer said. " I can only say that I
will consult with my clients, and meet Mr. , this

XV.] HE THAT WILL Not When HE MAY.

gentleman's solicitor, on the subject of the extraordinary
claim he makes."

'' If it is me you mean, I have no solicitor," said Air.
Gus, " and I don't see the need of one. What have
you got to say against my papers ? They are straightforward
enough."

The lawyer was moved to impatience.

It is ridiculous," he said, " to think that a matter
of this importance — the succession to a great property —
can be settled in such a summary way. There is a great
deal more necessary before we get that length. Lady
Markham, I don't think we need detain you lodger,"

JO

But no one moved. Lady Markham had sunk into
her chair too feeble to stand. Her eyes were fixed
upon her son and daughter standing together. They
seemed to have floated away from her on the top of
this wave of strange invasion. She thought there was
anger on Paul's pale stem face, but her heart was too
faint to go to them, to take the part she ought to
take. Did they think she was to blame ? How was she
to blame ? She almost thought so herself as she
looked pathetically across the room at her children,,
who seemed to have forsaken her. Mr. Scrivener made

VOL. II. T

a great rustling and scraping, tying up his papers,
putting them together — these strange documents along
with the others ; for Gus had made no effort to retain
them. The lawyer felt with a sinking of his heart that
the last doubt of the reality of this claim was removed
when the claimant allowed him to keep the certificates
which proved his case. In such a matter only men
who are absolutely honest put faith in others. '' He is
not afraid of any appeal to the registers," Mr. Scrivener
said to himself. He made as much noise as he could
over the tying up of these papers ; but nobody moved
to go. At last he took out his watch and examined it.

Can any one tell me about the trains to town ? "
he said.

This took away all excuse from old Mr. Markham,
who very unwillingly put himself in motion.

"I must go too," he said. " Can I put you down at
the station ? "

And then these two persons stood together for a
minute or more comparing their watches, of which one
was a little slow and the other a little fast.

I think perhaps it will suit me better," the lawyer
said, " to wait for the night train."

Then the other reluctantly took his leave.

I am glad that anyhow it can make no difference to
you," he said, pressing Lady Markham's hand ; '' that
would have been worse, much worse, than anything
that can happen to Paul."

The insult made her shrink and wince, and this
pleased the revengeful old man who had never forgiven
her marriage. Then he went to Mr. Gus with a great
show of friendliness.

We're relations, too," he said, " and I hope will befriends.
Can I set you down anywhere ? "

Mr. Gus looked at him with great severity and did
not put out his hand.

I can't help hurting them, more or less," he said,
for I've got to look after my own rights ; but if you
think I'll make friends with any one that takes pleasure

in hurting them I am much obliged to you,"

Mr. Gus added with much state, *' but I am at home,
and I don't want to be set down anywhere."

These words, which were quite audible, sent a thrill
of amazement through the room. Colonel Fleetwood
and Mr. Scrivener looked at each other. Notwithstanding
the ruin and calamity which surrounded them,

a gleam of amusement went over the lawyer's face.
Gus was moving about restlessly, hovering round the
brother and sister who had not changed their position,
like a big blue-bottle, moving in circles. He was not at
all unlike a blue-bottle in his black coat. Mr. Scrivener
went up to him, arresting him in one of his flights.

"I should think—" said the lawyer, "don't you
agree with me ? — that the family would prefer to be
left alone after such an exciting and distressing day ? "

Eh ! the family ? Yes, that is quite my opinion.
You outsiders ought to go, and leave us to settle
matters between us," said Gus.

He scarcely looked at the lawyer, so intent was he
upon Paul and Alice, who were still standing together,
supporting each other. The little man was undisguisedly
anxious to listen to what Alice was saying
in her brother's ear.

"I am their adviser," said Mr. Scrivener. ''I cannot
leave till I have done all I can for them ; but you
Mr. "

Sir Augustus, if you please," said the little gentleman,
drawing himself up. ^' If you are their adviser, I,
sir, am their brother. You seem to forget that. The

family is not complete without me. Leave them to me,
and there is no fear but everything will come straight."

Mr. Scrivener looked at this strange personage with
a kind of consternation. He was half afraid of him,
half amused by him. The genuineness of him filled the
lawyer with dismay. He could not entertain a hope
that a being so true was false in his pretensions. Besides,
there were various things known perhaps only to
Mr. Scrivener himself which gave these pretensions
additional weight. He shook his head when Colonel
Fleetwood, coming up to him on the other side,
whispered to him an entreaty to "get the fellow to go."
How was he to get the fellow to go ? He had not only
right, but kindness and the best of intentions on
his side.

My dear sir," he said, perplexed, '' you must see,
if you think, that your claim, even if true, cannot be
accepted in a moment as you seem to expect. AVe
must have time to investigate ; any one may call
himself Sir William Markham's son."

But no one except myself can prove it," said Gus,
promptly ; " and, my dear sir, to use your o^^TL words,
you had better leave my family to me, as I tell you. I

know better than any one else how to manage them.
Are they not my own flesh and blood ? "

That may or may not be," said the lawyer, at the
end of his reasoning.

It was easy to say '' get him to go away," but unless
he ejected him by sheer force, he did not see how it was
to be done. As for Mr. Gus, he himself saw that the time
was come for some further step. First he buttoned his
coat as preparing for action, aid put down his hat, with
its huge hat-band, upon the table. Then he hesitated
for a moment between Lady Markham and the young
people ; finally he said to himself reflectively, almost
sadly, " What claim have I upon her ? " He moved
a step towards Paul and Alice, and cleared his throat.

And it was now that Providence interposed to help
the stranger. Just as he had made up his mind to
address the young man whom he had superseded, there
came a sound of footsteps at the door. It was opened
a very little, timidly, and through the chink Bell's little
soft voice (she was always the spokeswoman) was heard
with a little sobbing catch in it, pleading —

'' May we come in now, mamma ? "

The children thought everybody was gone. They

had been huddled up, out of the ^'ay, it seemed, for
weeks. They were longing for their natural lives, for
their mother, for some way out of the strangeness and
desolation of this unnatural life they had been leading.
They were all in the doorway, treading upon each other's
heels in their eagerness, but subdued by the influences
about which took the courage out of them. It seemed
to Mr. Gus an interposition of Providence on his behalf.
He went quickly to the door and opened to them, then
returned, leading one of the little girls in each hand.

I told you I was a relation," he said very gravely
and kindly, with a certain dignity which now and then
took away all that was ridiculous in him. " I am your
brother, though you would not think it ; your poor dear
father who is gone was my father too. He was my father
when he was not much older than Paul. I should like
to be very fond of you all if you would let me. I would
not hurt one of you for the world. Will you give mea
kiss, because I am your brother, Bell and Marie ? "

The children looked at him curiously with their big
eyes, which they had made so much larger with crying.
They looked pale and fragile in their black frocks, with
their anxious little faces turned up to him.

Our brother ! " they both said in a breath, wondering
; but they did not shrink from the kiss he gave,
turning with a quivering of real emotion from one to
another

Yes, my dears," he said, '' and a good brother I'll
be to you, so help me God ! " the little gentleman's
brown face got puckered and tremulous, as if he would
cry. " I don't want to harm anybody," he said. '' I'll
take care of the boys as if they were my own. I'll do
anything for Paul that he'll let me, though I can't give
up my rights to him ; and I'll be fond of you all if you
let me," cried Mr. Gus, dropping the hands of the
children, and holding out his own to the colder, more
difficult, audience round him. They all stood looking
at him, with keen wonder, opposition, almost hatred.
Was it possible they could feel otherwise to the stranger
who thus had fallen among them, taking everything
th.^t they thought was theirs out of their hands ?

END OF VOL. n.

london: u. clay, soda, and iaylob, painters.

.•^ .*'«•*■

ilt-A!

»•

.mim

iBJ^

V;

V m

'^w%

"W s)

<i^m



OF Thou
N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS



O^Shet
V.3

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/hethatwillnotwhe03olip

BY

MRS. OLIPHANT

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME III.

MACMILLAN AND CO.



The Right of Translation and Reproduction is Reserved

R. Clay, Sons, and Taylor,

BREAD STREET HILL.

CONTENTS.

PAGE

Chapter I 1

Chapter II 12

Chapter III 27

Chapter IV 46

Chapter V 7o

Chapter VI.

Chapter VII. 108

Chapter VIII 127

PAGE

Chapter IX 148

Chapter X 166

Chapter XI 190

Chapter XII 211

Chapter XIII 230

Chapter XIV 255

CHAPTER I.

It was late, quite late, when Mr. Gus was " got to go
away." And it might have proved impossible altogether,
but for some one who came for him and would
not be denied. Mr. Scrivener was sitting alone with
him in the library, from which all the others had gone,
when this unknown summons arrived. The lawyer
had done all he could to convince him that it was
impossible he could remain ; but Gus could not see the
impossibility. He was hurt that they should wish him
to go away, and still more hurt when the lawyer
suggested that, in case of his claims being proved,
Lady Mark ham would evacuate the house and leave
it to him.

VOL. III. B

What would she do that for ? " Gus cried. " Did
I come here to be left in a great desert all by myself?
I won't let them go away."

Between these two determinations the lawyer did
not know what to do. He was half-exasperated, half-amused,
most reluctant to offend a personage who
would have everything in his power as respected the
little Markhams, and might make life so much happier,
or more bitter, to all of them. He would not offend
him for their sake, but neither could he let him take
up his abode in the house and thus forestal all future
settlement of the question. When the messenger
came Mr. Scrivener was very grateful. It left him at
liberty to speak with the others whose interests were
much closer to his heart. To his surprise the person
who came for Gus immediately addressed to him the
most anxious questions about Lady Markham and
Alice.

I aren't ask to see them' this stranger said, who
was half hidden in the obscurity of the night. " Will
sou tell them Edward Fairfax sends his — what do you
call it ? " said the young man — " duty, the poor people
say : my most re. };ectful duty. I stayed for to-day. I

should have liked to help to carry him, but I did not
feel I had any right." His eyes glimmered in the
twilight as eyes shine only through tears. '' I helped
to nurse him' he said in explanation, "poor old
gentleman."

At this moment Gus, helped very obsequiously by
Brown, who had got scent of something extraordinary
in the air, as servants do, was getting himself into
his overcoat.

'have you anything to do with him?" the lawyer
replied.

No further than being in the inn with him. And
I thought from what he said they might have a difficulty
in getting him away. So I came to fetch him ; but not
entirely for that either," Fairfax said.

'Then you never did them a better service," said the
lawyer, " than to-night. "

'' T don't think there is any harm in him," Fairfax
said.

The lawyer shook his head. There might be no
harm in him ; but what harm was coming because of
him ! He said nothing, and Gus came out, buttoned
up to the throat.

B 2

You'll not go, I hope, till it is all settled," he said.

'settled— it may not be settled for years !" cried the
lawyer, testily. And then he turned to the other, who
might be a confederate for anything he knew, standing
out in the darkness, '' What name am I to tell Lady
Markham — Fairfax ? Keep him away as long as you
can," he whispered ; "he will be the death of them."
He thought afterwards that he was in some degree
committing himself as allowing that Gus possessed the
power of doing harm, which it would have been better
policy altogether to deny.

Thus it was not till nightfall that the lawyer was able
to communicate to his clients his real opinion. All the
exhaustion and desire of repose which generally follows
such a period of domestic distress had been made an
end of by this extraordinary new event. Lady Markham
was sitting in her favourite room, wrapped in a shawl,
talking low with her brother and Alice, when Mr.
Scrivener came in. He told them how it was that he
had got free, and gave them the message Fairfax had
sent. But it is to be feared that the devotion and
delicacy of it suffered in transmission. It was his
regards or his respects, and not his duty, which the

lawyer gave. What could the word matter ? But he
reported the rest more or less faithfully. " He thought
there would be a difficulty in getting rid of our little
friend," Mr. Scrivener said, "and therefore he came.
It was considerate."

"Yes, it was very considerate," Lady Markham said,
but, unreasonably, the ladies were both disappointed
and vexed, they could not tell why, that their friend
should thus make himself appear the supporter of their
enemy. Their hearts chilled to him in spite of themselves.
Paul had gone out ; he was not able to bear
any more of it; he could not rest. "Forgive my
boy, Mr. Scrivener," his mother said; "he never was
patient, and think of all he has lost."

"Mr. Paul," said the lawyer coldly, "might have
endured the restraint for one evening, seeing I have
waited on purpose to be of use to him."

The hearts of all three sank to their shoes when Mr.
Scrivener, who was his adviser, his supporter, the chief
prop he had to trust to — who had called the young
man Sir Paul all the morning — thus changed his
title. Lady Markham put out her hand and grasped
his arm.

"You have given it up, then!" she said. "You
have given it up ! There is no more hope 1 "

And though he would not allow this, all that Mr.
Scrivener had to say was the reverse of hopeful. He
was aware of Sir William's residence in Barbadoes,
which his wife had never heard of until the Lennys had
betrayed it to her, and of many other little matters
which sustained and gave consistence to the story of
Gus. They sat together till late, going over everything,
and before they separated it was tacitly concluded
among them that all was over, that there was no more
hope. The lawyer still spoke of inquiries, of sending a
messenger to Barbadoes, and making various attempts
to defend Paul's position. After all, it resolved itself
into a question of Paul. Lady Markham could not be
touched one way or another, and the fortunes of the
children were secured. But Paul — how was Paul to
bear this alteration in everything, this ruin of his life ?

"It is all over now," Lady Markham said to her
daughter, as after this long and terrible day they went
up stairs together. " Whatever might have been, it is
past hoping now. He will go with those people, and I
shall never see my boy more."

What could Alice say? She cried, which seemed the
only thing possible There was no use in tears, but
there is sometimes relief when no other outlet is
possible. They wept together, thankful that at least
there were two of them to mingle their tears. And
Paul had not come in. He was wandering about the
woods in the moonlight, not caring for anything, his
head light, and his feet heavy. He had fallen, fallen,
he scarcely knew where or when. Instead of the
subdued and sad happiness of the morning, a sense of
wounding and bruising and miserable downfall was in
him and about him. He did not know where he was
going, though he was acquainted with every glade and
tangled alley of those familiar woods. Once (it was now
September) he was seized by the gamekeepers, who
thought him a poacher, and whose alarmed apologies
and excuses when they discovered that it was Sir
Paul, gave him a momentary sensation of self-disgust
as if it were he who was the impostor. "I am not Sir
Paul," was on his lips to say, but he did not seem to care
enough for life to say it. One delusion more or less,
what did it matter ?

He walked and walked, till he was footsore with

fatigue. He went past the Markham Arms in the dark,
and saw his supplanter through the inn window talking
to whom ? — to Fairfax, What had Fairfax to do
with it? Was it a scheme invented by Fairfax to
humble him ? Then the unhappy young fellow strayed
to his father's grave, all heaped up and covered with the
flowers that shone pale in the moonlight, quite detached
from the surrounding graves and upturned earth. He
sat down there, all alone in the silence of the world, and
noticed, in spite of himself, how the night air moved
the leaves and grasses, and how the moonlight slowly
climbed the great slope of the skies. When the church
tower came for a little while between him and the light,
he shivered. He dropped his head into his hands and
thought he slept. The night grew tedious to him, the
darkness unendurable. He went away to the woods
again, with a vague sense that to be taken for a
poacher, or even shot by chance round the bole of a
tree, would be the best thing that could happen.
Neither Sir Paul nor any one — not even a poacher :
what was he ? A semblance, a shadow, a vain show —
not the same as he who had walked with his face to
heaven in the morning, and everything expanding,

opening out around him. In a moment they had all
collapsed like a house of cards. He did not want to go
home ; home ! it was not home — nor to see his mother,
nor to talk to any one. The hoot of the owl, the
incomprehensible stirring of the woods were more
congenial to him than human voices. What could they
talk about? Nothing but this on which there was
nothing to say. Supplanted ! Yes, he was supplanted,
turned out of his natural place by a stranger. And
what could he do ? He could not fight for his inheritance,
which would have been a kind of consolation
unless indeed it were a law-fight in the courts, where
there would be swearing and counter-swearing, and all
the dead father's life raked up, and perhaps shameful
stories told of the old man who had to-day been laid in
his grave with so much honour. This was the only way
in which in these days a man could fight.

But it was only now and then, by intervals, that
Paul's thoughts took any form so definite. He did not
want to think. There was in him a vague and general
sense of destruction — ruin, downfall, and humiliation
which he could not endure. But, strangely enough, in
all this he never thought of the plans which so short a

while ago lie had considered as shaping his life. He
did not think that now he could go back to them, and,
free from all encumbrances of duty, pursue the way he
had chosen. The truth was, he did not think of them
at all. In the morning Spears and his colleagues had
come to his mind as something from which he had
escaped, but at night he did not think of them at all.
They were altogether wiped out of his mind and obliterated
by the loss of that which he had never

When he went home all the lights in the great house
seemed extinguished save one candle which flickered in
the hall window, and the light in his mother's room,
which shone out like a star into the summer darkness.
It was Alice who came noiseless, before he could knock,
and opened the great door.

'mamma cannot sleep till she has seen you," said
the girl. '' Oh, Paul, we must think of her now. I
sent all the servants to bed. I have been watching for
you at the window. I could not bear Brown and the
rest to think that there was anything wrong."

But they must soon know that everything is wrong.
It is not a thing that can be hid."

Perhaps it may be hid, Paul. It may turn out it is
all a delusion — or an imposture."

Let us go to my mother's room," said Paul.

He said nothing as he went up the stairs, but when
he got to the landing he turned round upon the pale
girl beside him carrying the light, whose white face
illuminated by her candle made a luminous point in
the gloom. He turned round to her all at once in the
blackness of the great vacant place.

'rit is no imposture; it is true. Whether we can
bear it or not, it is true ! "

God will help us to bear it, Paul ; if you will not
desert us — if you will stay by us "

'desert you — was there ever any question of deserting
you ? " he said. He looked at his sister with a half-complaining
curiosity and surprise, and shrugged his
shoulders, so foolish did it sound to him. Then he took
the candle from her hand, almost rudely, and walked
before her to their mother's room. " You women never
understand," he said.

After this a sudden veil and silence fell upon Markham.
Nothing could be more natural than that this
should be the case. Paul went to town with his uncle
Fleetwood and the family lawyer, and shortly after the
boys went back to school, and perfect silence fell upon
the mourning house. The woods began to be touched
by that finger of autumn which is chill rather than fiery,
notwithstanding Mr. Tennyson — a yellow flag hung out
here and there to warn the summer world, still in full
brightness, of what was coming ; but no crack of gun
was to be heard among the covers. The county persistently
and devotedly came to call, but Lady Markham
was not yet able to see visitors. She was visible at
church and sometimes driving, but never otherwise,
which was all quite natural too, seeing that she was a

woman who had always been a tender wife. No whisper
of any complication, of anything that made grief harder
to bear had escaped from the house. Or so at least
they thought who lived an anxious life there, not knowing
what was to happen. But nevertheless by some
strangle magnetism in the air it was known from one
end to another of the county that there was something
mysterious going on. The servants had felt it in the
air almost before the family themselves knew. When
Brown helped " the little furrin gentleman " on with his
coat on the evening of the funeral day do you think he
did not know that this was his future master ? The
knowledge breathed even about the cottages and into
the village, where generally the rustic public was obtuse
enough in mastering any new fact. The young master
who had been Sir Paul for one brief day sank into Mr.
Paul again, nobody knowing how, and what was still
more wonderful, nobody asking why. Among the higher
classes there was more distinct curiosity, and many
floating rumours. That there was a new claimant
everybody was aware ; and that there was to be a great
trial unfolding all the secrets of the family for generations
and showing a great many respectable personages to the

world in an entirely new light, most people hoped. It
was generally divined and understood that the odd little
foreigner (as everybody thought him) who had made
himself conspicuous at the funeral, and whom many
people had met walking about the roads, was the new
heir. But how he came by his claim few people understood.
Sir William was not the man to be the hero of
any doubtful story, or to leave any uncertainty upon the
succession to his property. This was just the one evil
which no one, not even his political enemies, could think
him capable of; therefore the imagination of his county
neighbours threw itself further back upon his two
brothers who had preceded him. Of these Sir Paul
was known to have borne no spotless reputation in his
youth, and even Sir Harry might have had antecedents
that would not bear looking into. From one or other
of these, the county concluded, and not through Sir
William, this family misfortune must have come.

One morning during this interval, when Paul was
absent and all the doings of the household at Markham
were mysteriously hidden from the world, a visitor came
up the avenue who was not of the usual kind. She
seemed for some time very doubtful whether to go to

the great door, or to seek an entrance in a more humble
way. She was a tall and slim young woman, dressed ina
black alpaca gown, with a black hat and feather, and
a shawl over her arm, a nondescript sort of person, not
altogether a lady, yet whom Charles, the footman, contemplated
more or less respectfully, not feeling equal
to the impertinence of bidding her go round to the
servants' door ; for how could any one tell, he said ? there
were governesses and that sort that stood a deal more
on their dignity than the ladies themselves. Mrs. Fry,
who happened to see her from a window in the wing
where she was superintending the great autumn cleaning
in the nursery, concluded that it was some one come
about the lady's-maid's place, for Alice's maid was going
to be married. " But if you get it," said Mrs. Fry
mentally, " I can tell you it's not long you'll go trooping
about with that long feather, nor wear a bit of a hat
stuck on the top of your head." While, however, Mrs.
Fry was forming this rapid estimate of her, Charles
looked at the young person with hesitating respect, and
behaved with polite condescension, coming forward as
she approached. When she asked if she could see Lady
Markham, Charles shook his head. " My lady don't see

nobody' he replied with an ease of language which was
the first symptom he showed of feeling himself on an
equality with the visitor. It was the tone of her voice
which had produced this effect. Charles knew that this
was not how a lady spoke.

But she'll see me, if she knows who I am' said the
girl. " I know she'll see me if you'll be so kind as to
take up my name. Say Miss Janet Spears — as she saw
in Oxford — "

"If you've come about the lady's-maid's place' said
Charles, " there's our housekeeper, Mrs. Fry, she'll see
you."

I haven't come about no lady's-maid's place. You
had better take up my name, or it will be the worse
for you after," cried the girl angrily. She gave him
such a look that Charles shook in his shoes. He begged
her pardon humbly, and went off to seek Brown, leaving
her standing at the door.

Then Brown came and inspected her from the
further side of the hall. ''I don't know why you
should bother me, or me go and bother my lady,"
said Brown, not satisfied with the inspection ; '' take
her to Missis Fry."

'but she won't go. It's my lady she wants, and
just you look at her, what she wants she'll have,
that's sure; she says it'll be the worse for us after."

*' What name did you say ? " asked Brown. 'Til tell
Mrs. Martin, and she can do as she thinks proper."
Mrs. Martin was Lady Markham's own maid. Thus it
was through a great many hands that the name of
Janet Spears reached Lady Markham's seclusion. Charles
was very triumphant when the message reached him
that the young person was to go up stairs. '' I told you,"
he said to Mr. Brown. But Brown on his part was
satisfied to know that it was only " a young person," nota
lady, whom his mistress admitted. His usual discrimination
had not deserted him. As for Janet, the
great staircase overawed her more than even the
exterior of the house ; the size and the grandeur took
away her breath ; and though she felt no respect for
Charles, the air as of a dignified clergyman with which
Mr. Brown stepped out before her, to guide her to Lady
Markham's room, not deigning to say anything, impressed
her more than words could tell. No clergyman
she had ever encountered had been half so imposing ;
though Janet from a general desire fo better herself

VOL. IIL C

in the world, and determination not to lower herself
to the level of her father's companions, had always been
a good churchman and eschewed Dissenters. But
Mr. Brown, it may well be believed, in the gloss of his
black clothes and the perfection of his linen, was not to
be compared with a hardworking parish priest exposed
to all weathers. By the time she had reached Lady
Markham's door her breath was coming quick with fright
and excitement. Lady Markham herself had made no
such strong impression. Her dress had not been what
Janet thought suitable for a great lady. She had felt
a natural scorn for a woman who, having silks and satins
at her command, could come out in simple stuff no
better than her own. Mrs. Martin, however, had a
black silk which " could have stood alone," and everything
combined to dazzle the rash visitor. Now that
she had got so far her knees began to tremble beneath
her. Lady Markham was standing awaiting her, in
deep mourning, looking a very different person from the
beautiful woman whom Janet had seen standing in the
sunshine in her father's shop. She made a step forward
to receive her visitor, a movement of anxiety and
eagerness; then waited till the door was shut upon

her attendant. 'you have come — from your father?"
she said.

No, my lady." Now that it had come to the point
Janet felt an unusual shyness come over her. She cast
down her eyes and twisted her fingers round the handle
of the umbrella she carried. ''My father was away:
I had a day to spare : and I thought I'd come and
ask you "

Do not be afraid. Tell me what it is you want ; is

it " Lady Markham hesitated more than Janet did.

Was it something about Paul ? What could it be
but about Paul ? but she would not say anything to
open that subject again.

"It is about Mr. Paul, my lady. There isn't any
reason for me to hesitate. It was you that first put it
into my head "

Now it was Lady Markham' s turn to droop. " I am
very sorry," she said involuntarily. "I was —
misled "

"Oh, I don't know as there's anything to be sorry
about. Mr. Paul — I suppose he is Sir Paul, now ? "

As Janet's gaze, no longer shy, dwelt pointedly on her
dress by way of justifying the question, Lady Markham

C 2

shrank back a little. "It is not — quite settled," she
said faintly ; " there are some — unexpected difficulties."

Oh ! " Janet's eyes grew round as her exclamation,
an expression of surprise and profound disappointment
went over her face. " Will he not be a baronet then,
after all ? " she said.

These are family matters which I have not entered
into with any one," said Lady Markham, recovering

herself "I cannot discuss them now — unless "

here her voice faltered, " you have any right "

'' I should think a girl just had a right where all her
prospects are concerned," said Janet. " It was that
brought me here. I wanted you to know, my lady,
that I've advised Mr. Paul against it — against the emigration
plan. If he goes it won't be to please me. I
don't want him to go. I don't want to go myself — and
that's what I've come here for. If so be," said Janet,
speaking deliberately, " as anything is to come of it
between him and me, I should be a deal happier and a
deal better pleased to stay on at home ; and I thought
if you knew that you'd give up opposing. I've said it
to him as plain as words can say. And if he will go, it
will be your blame and not mine. It will be because he

thinks you've set your face so against it, that that's the
only way."

Lady Markham trembled so much that she could not
stand. She sank down upon a chair. 'pardon me,"
she said involuntarily, " I have not been well."

Oh, don't mention it, my lady," said Janet, taking a
chair too. " I was just a going to ask you if you
wouldn't sit down and make yourself comfortable."
She had got over her shyness ; but that which liberated
her threw Lady Markham into painful agitation. It
seemed to her that she had the fate of her son thrown
back into her hands. If she withdrew all opposition to
this marriage, would he indeed give up his wild ideas
and stay at home ? If she opposed it, would he
persevere ? and how could she oppose anything he had
set his heart upon after all he had to renounce on his
side, poor boy ? She did not know how to reply or how
to face such a dilemma. To help to make this woman
Paul's wife — or to lose Paul altogether — what a choice
it was to make ! Her voice was choked by the
fluttering of her heart.

"My son," she said, faintly, "has never spoken tome
on the subject."

'rit is not likely," said Janet, "when he knows he
would meet with nothing but opposition. For my
part I'm willing, very willing, to stay at home. I never
went in with the emigration plan. Father is a goodman,
and very steady, and has been a good father tous
; but whenever it comes to planning, there's no
telling the nonsense he's got in his head."

Does your father know that you have come to seeme
? " Lady Markham said. With Spears himself she
had some standing-ground. She knew how to talk to
the demagogue, understood him, and he her ; but the
young woman she did not understand. Paul's mother,
notwithstanding all her experience, was half afraid of
this creature, so straightforward, so free of prejudice, so
sensible. Yes, it was sense, no doubt. Janet did not
want to go away. She had no faith in her father, nor
in the man who was going, she hoped, to be her husband.
Lady Markham, herself capable of enthusiasm and
devotion, and who could so well, in her maturity,
have understood the folly of a girl ready to follow to
the end of the world for love, was almost afraid of
Janet. She was cowed by her steady look, the bargain
she evidently wished to make. She took refuge

as it were, in Spears, mentally appealing to him in
her heart.

No," said Janet, " no one knows. He is away from
home on one of his speechify kings. Don't think I hold
with that, my lady. England's good enough for me,
and things as they are ; and if so be as you will makeup
your mind not to go against us, Mr. Paul shall
never go to foreign paints through me. But he is Sir
Paul, ain't he ? " the young woman said.

I will do nothing — to make my son unhappy," said
Lady Markham. How could she help but sigh to
think that this was the woman that could make him
happy ? " He is not at home," she added with a tone
of relief.

But he is Sir Paul ? What is the good of deceiving
me, when I can hear from any one — the gentleman
down stairs, or any one."

Is there a gentleman down stairs ? " Lady Markham
thought some one must have come bringing news,
perhaps, while she was shut up here.

Janet blushed crimson. Now she had indeed
made a mistake. She avoided all reply which might
have led to the discovery that Brown was the

gentleman she meant; but this glaring error made
her humbler.

"You are very kind, my lady, to speak so reasonable,"
she said. *' And if you like to tell Mr. Paul that I'm
as set against emigration as you are — I am not
one that will be put upon," said Janet ; " but if we're
both to be the same, you and me, both Lady Markhams,"
here she paused a moment to draw a long breath, half
overcome by the thought which in this scene became so
dazzlingly real and possible, " I think it would be a
real good thing if we could be friends."

This thought, which fluttered Janet, made Lady
Markham faint. The blood seemed to ebb away from
her heart as she heard these words. She could not
make any reply. It was true enough what the girl said,
and if she should ever be Paul's wife, no doubt his
mother would be bound to be her friend. But she
could not speak in reply. There was a pause. And
Janet looked round the richly-furnished, luxurious room
which was not indeed by any means so fine as she
would have thought natural, with much curiosity and
interest. The sight of all its comforts revealed to her
the very necessities they were intended to supply, and

which had no existence in her primitive state. Janet
was not unreasonable. She was content with the
acquiescence she had elicited. Lady Markham had not
resisted her nor denounced her, as it was quite on the
cards that she might have done. " You have a very grand
house, and a beautiful place here, my lady," she said.
Lady Markham, more than ever subdued, made a faint
sound of assent in reply. " I should like to see over
it," Janet said.

"Miss— Spears !"

Oh, I don't mind, if you would rather not 1 Some
people don't like them that is to come after them. I
have said all I came to say, my lady. So perhaps I
had better just say good-bye."

And Janet rose and put forth a moist hand in a
black glove. She had got these black gloves and the
hat out of compliment to the family, sever had a
friendly and hospitable woman been in a greater
difficulty. "I am not seeing any one," Lady Markham
faltered ; " but — should you not like some refreshment
before you go ? '

Janet paused. She would have liked to have eaten
in such a house. What they eat there must be different

from the common fare with which she was acquainted,
and a man in livery to wait behind her chair was
an idea which thrilled her soul ; but when Lady Markham
rang the bell, and ordered Mrs. Martin to have a
tray brought up stairs, she started in high offence.
No, my lady ; if I'm not good enough to take my
meals with you, I'll have nothing in this house," she
cried, and flounced indignant out of the room. This
was the summary end of the first visit paid to Markham
by Janet Spears.

The day after Paul's departure for London with his
lawyer and his uncle, Mr. Gus left the Markham Arms.
By a fatality Fairfax thought, he too was going away at
the same time. He had gone up to Markham in the
morning early for no particular reason. He said to
himself that he wanted to see the house of which he
had so strangely become an inmate for a little while
and then had been swept out of, most probably forever.
To think that he knew all those rooms as
familiarly as if they belonged to him, and could wander
about them in his imagination, and remember whereabouts
the pictures hung on the walls, and how the
patterns went in the carpet, and yet never had
seen them a month ago, and never might see them

again ! It is a strange experience in a life when
this happens, but not a very rare one. Sometimes
the passer-by is made for a single evening, for an
hour or two, the sharer of an existence which
drops entirely into the darkness afterwards, and
is never visible to him again. Fairfax asked himself
somewhat sadly if this was how it was to be.
He thought that he would never in his life forget
one detail of those rooms, the very way the curtains
hung, the covers on the tables : and yet they
could never be anything to him except a picture
in his memory, hanging suspended between the
known and the unknown. The great door was
open as he had known it (" It is always open,"
he said to himself), and all the windows of the
sitting-rooms, receiving the full air and sunshine
into them. But up stairs the house was not yet
open. Over some of the windows the curtains were
drawn. Where they still sleeping, the two women who
were in his thoughts? He cared much less in comparison
for the rest of the family. Paul, indeed, being
in trouble, had been much in his mind as he came up
the avenue ; but Paul had not been here when Fairfax

had lived in the house, and did not enter into his
recollections ; and Paul he knew was away now. But
the two ladies — Alice, whom he had been allowed to
spend so many lingering hours with, whom he had told
so much about himself — and Lady Markham, whom he
had never ceased to wonder at ; they had taken him
into the very closest circle of their friendship ; they had
said "Go," and he had gone; or 'come," and he had
always been ready to obey. And now was he to see no
more of them for ever ? Fairfax could not but feel very
melancholy when this thought came into his mind. He
came slowly up the avenue, looking at the old house.
The old house he called it to himself, as people speak of
the home they have loved for years. He would never
forget it though already perhaps they had forgotten
him. His foot upon the gravel caught the ear of Mr.
Brown, who came to the door and looked out curiously.
When things of a mysterious character are happening
in a house the servants are always vigilant. Brown
came down stairs early ; he suffered no sound to pass
unnoticed. And now he came out into the early
sunshine, and looked about like a man determined
to let nothing escape him. And the sight of Fairfax

was a welcome sight, for was not he '' mixed
up" with the whole matter, and probably able to
throw light upon some part of it, could he be got
to speak.

I hope I see you well, sir," said Mr. Brown. " This
is a sad house, sir — not like what it was a little time
ago. We have suffered a great affliction, sir, in the
loss of Sir William."

I am going away. Brown," said Fairfax. " I came
up to ask for the ladies. Tell me what you can about
them. How is Lady Markham ? She must have felt
it terribly, I fear."

Yes, sir, and all that's happened since," said Brown.
"A death, sir, is a thing we must all look forward
to. That will happen from time to time, and nobody
can say a word ; but there's a deal happened since,
Mr. Fairfax — and that do try my lady the worst
of all."

Fairfax did not ask what had happened, which Mr.
Brown very shrewdly took as conclusive that he knew
all about it. He said half to himself, " I will leave a
card, though that means nothing ; " and then he mused
long over the card, trying to put more than a message

HE THAT WILL NOT WHEN HE MAY.



ever contained into the little space at his disposal. This
was at last what he produced —

With

^

^-^^

Edward Fairfax's
most respectful and affectionate humble
duty, his best wishes, his completest
sympathy, only longing to be able to do
anything, to be of any use. Going away
Trin : Coll. with a heavy heart,

When he had written this — and only when he had
written it — it occurred to him how much better it
would have been to have written a note, and then he
hesitated whether to tear his card in pieces; but on
reflection, decided to let it go. He thought the
crowded lines would discourage Brown from the
attempt to decipher it.

You will give them that, and tell them — but there
is no need for telling them anything," Fairfax said
with a sigh.

You are going away, sir ? "

"Yes, Brown" — he said, confidentially, 'directly,"

feeling as if he could cry ; and Brown felt for the
poor young fellow. He thought over the matter fora
moment, and reflected that if things were to go
badly for the family, it would be a good thing for
Miss Alice to have a good husband ready at hand.
Various things had given Brown a high opinion of
Fairfax. There were signs about him — which perhaps
only a person of Mr. Brown's profession could fully
appreciate — of something like wealth. Brown could
scarcely have explained to any one the grounds on
which he built this hypothesis, but all the same he
entertained it with profound conviction. He eyed the
card with great interest, meaning to peruse it by and
by ; and then he said —

I beg your pardon, sir, but I think Miss AHce is
just round the corner, with the young ladies and the
young gentlemen. You won't mention, sir, as I said
it — but I think you'll find them all there."

Fairfax was down the steps in a moment ; but then
paused :

'' I wonder if it will be an intrusion," he said ; then
he made an abject and altogether inappropriate appeal,
'' Brown ! do you think I may venture, Brown ? "

I would, sir, if I was you," said that personage with
a secret chuckle, but the seriousness of his countenance
never relaxed. He grinned as the young man darted
away in the direction he had pointed out. Brown was
not without sympathy for tender sentiments. And then
he fell back upon those indications already referred to.
A good husband was always a good thing, he said
to himself.

And Fairfax skimmed as if on wings round the end of
the wing to a bit of lawn which they were all fond of —
where he had played with the boys and talked with
AHce often before. When he got within sight of it,
however, he skimmed the ground no longer. He began
to get alarmed at his own temerity. The blackness of
the group on the grass which he had seen only in their
light summer dresses gave him a sensation of pain. He
went forward very timidly, very doubtfully. Alice was
standing with her back towards him, and it was only
when he was quite near that she turned round. She
gave a little startled cry — " Mr. Fairfax ! " and smiled ;
then her eyes filled with tears. She held out one hand
to him and covered her face with the other. The little
girls seeing this began to cry too. For the moment it

VOL. III. D

was their most prevailing habit. Fairfax took the outstretched
hand into both his, and what could he do to
show his sympathy but kiss it? — a sight which filled
Bell and Marie with wonder, seeing it, as they saw
the world in general, through that blurred medium
of tears.

I could not help coming," he said, " forgive me !
just to look at the windows. I know them all by heart.
I had no hope of so much happiness as to see — any one ;
but I could not— it was impossible to go away —
without "

Here they all thought he gave a little sob too, which
said more than words, and went to their hearts.

But, Mr. Fairfax," said Bell, '' you were here
before—"

Yes ; I could not go away. I always thought it
possible that there might be some errand — something
you would tell me to do. At all events I must have
stayed for "

The funeral he would have added. He could not but
feel that though Alice had given him her hand, there
was a little hesitation about her.

But, Mr. Fairfax," Bell began again, '* you were

staying at the inn with — the little gentleman. Don't
you know he is our enemy now ? "

I don't think he is your enemy," Fairfax said — which
was not at all what he meant to say.

Hush, Bell, that was not what it was ; only mamma
thought — and I — that poor Paul was your friend and that
you would not have put yourself — on the other side."

''/put myself on the other side!" cried the young
man. '' Oh, how little you know ! I was going to offer
to go out to that place myself to make sure, for it does
not matter where I go. I am not of consequence to anyone
like Paul ; but "

'but— what?"
Alice half put out her hand to him again.

"You will not think this is putting myself on the
other side. It all looks so dreadfully genuine," said
Fairfax, sinking his voice.

Only Alice heard what he said. She was unreasonable,
as girls are.

'* In that case we will not say anything more on the
subject, Mr. Fairfax ; you cannot expect us to agree with
you," she said. " Good-bye. I will tell mamma you
have called."

D 2

Lie turned away from him as she spoke, then cast a
glance at him from under her eyelids, angry yet relenting.
They stood for a moment like the lovers in
Moliere, eying each other timidly, sadly — but there was
no one to bring them together, to say the necessary
word in the ear of each. Poor Fairfax uttered a sigh
so big that it seemed to move the branches round.
He said —

Good-bye then, Miss Markham ; won't you shake
hands with me before I go ? "

'' Good-bye," said Alice faintly. She wanted to say
something more, but what could she say ? Another
moment and he was gone altogether, hurrying down
the avenue.

Oh, how nasty you were to poor Mr. Fairfax," cried
Bell. "And he was always so kind. Don't you remember,
Marie, how he ran all the way in the rain to
fetch the doctor ? even George wouldn't go. He said
he couldn't take a horse out, and was frightened of the
thunder among the trees ; but Mr. Fairfax only buttoned
his coat and flew."

The boys said," cried little Marie, '' that they were
sure he would win the mile — in a moment "

Oh, children," cried Alice, '' what do you know
about it ? you will break my heart talking such nonsense
when there is so much trouble in the house. I am
going in to mamma."

But things were not much better there, for she found
Lady Markham nth Fairfax's card in her hand, which
she was reading with a great deal of emotion. " Put it
away with the letters," Lady Markham said. They had
kept all the letters which they received after Sir
William's death by themselves in the old despatch-box
which had always travelled with him wherever he went,
and which now stood — with something of the same
feeling which might have made them appropriate the
greenest paddock to his favourite horse — in Lady Markham's
room. Some of them were very " beautiful letters."
They had been dreadful to receive morning by morning,
but they were a kind of possession — an inheritance now.

Put it with the letters," Lady Markham said ; " anyone
could see that his very heart was in it. He
knew your dear father's worth; he was capable of
appreciating him ; and he knows what a loss we have
had. Poor boy — I will never forget his kindness — never
as Ions as I live."

But, mamma' said Alice, loyal still though her
heart was melting, "you know you thought it very strange
of Mr. Fairfax to take that horrid little man's part
against Paul."

I can't think he did anything of the sort," Lady
Markham said, but she would not enter into the
question.

It was not wonderful, however, if Alice was angry.
She had sent him away because of the general family
anger against him ; and lo, nobody seemed to feel that
anger except herself.

But it may be easily understood how Fairfax felt
it a fatality when he found Gus's portmanteaux
packed, and himself awaiting his return to go by the
same train.

"Why should I stay here?" he said. "I did not
come to England to stay in a village inn. I will go with
you, and go to that lawyer, and get it all settled. Why
should they make such a fuss about it ? I mean no one
any harm. Why can't they take to me and make me
one of the family ? except that I should be there instead
of my poor father, I don't know what difference it
need make."

"But that makes a considerable difference' said
Fairfax. " You must perceive that."

Of course it makes a difference ; between father and
son there is always a difference — but less with me than
with most people. I do not want to marry, for instance.
Most men marry when they come into their estates.
There was once a girl in the island," said Gus, with a
sigh ; " but things were going badly, and she married a
man in the Marines. No, if they will consent to consider
me as one of the family — I like the children, and
Alice seems a nice sort of girl, and my stepmother a
respectable motherly woman , eh ? "

Some hostile sound escaped from Fairfax which made
the little gentleman look up with great surprise. He
had not a notion why his friend should object to what
he said.

But the end was that the two did go to town together,
and that it was Fairfax who directed this enemy of his
friends' where to go, and how to manage his business.
Gus was perfectly helpless, not knowing anything about
London, and would have been as likely to settle himself
in Fleet Street as in Piccadilly — perhaps more so.
Fairfax could not get rid of his companion till he had

put him in communication with the lawyer, and
generally looked after all his affairs. For himself
nothing could be more ill-omened. He went about
asking himself what would the Markhams think of
him ? — and yet what could he do ? Gus's mingled perplexity
and excitement in town were amusing, but they
were embarrassing too. He wanted to go and see the
Tower and St. Paul's. He wanted Fairfax to tell him
exactly what he ought to give to every cabman. He
stood in the middle of the crowd in the streets folding
his arms, and resisting the stream which would have
carried him one way or the other.

"You call this a free country, and yet one cannot
even walk as one likes," he said. 'why are these
fellows jostling me ; do they want to rob me ? "

Fairfax did not know what to do with the burden
thus thrown on his hands.

And it may be imagined what the young man's
sensations were, when having just deposited Gus in the
dining-room of one of the junior clubs of which he
was a member, he met Paul upon the steps of the
building coming in. Paul was a member too. Fairfax
was driven to his wits' end. The little gentleman was

tired, and would not budge an inch until he had eaten
his luncheon and refreshed himself. What was to be
done ? Paul was not too friendly even to himself.

"Are you here, too, Markham ? I thought there
was nobody in London but myself," Fairfax said.

There are only a few millions for those who take
them into account ; but some people don't "

Oh, you know what I mean," Fairfax said. And
then they stood and looked at each other. Paul was
pale. His mourning gave him a formal look, not
unlike his father. He had the air of some young
official on duty, with a great deal of unusual care and
responsibility upon him.

You look as if you were the head of an office," said
Fairfax, attempting a smile.

"It would not be a bad thing," said the other
languidly; "but the tail would be more like it than
the head. I must do something of that kind."

Do you mean that you are going into public
life ? "

That depends upon what you mean by public life,"
said Paul. '' I am not, for instance, going into
Parliament, though there were thoughts of that once ;

but I have got to work, my good fellow, though that
may seem odd to you."

To work ! " Fairfax echoed with dismay ; which
dismay was not because of the work, but because the
means of getting him out of the place, and out of risk of
an encounter with Gus, became less and less every
moment. Paul laughed with a forced and theatrical
laugh. In short, he was altogether a little theatrical —
his looks, his dress, everything about him. In the
excess of his determination to bear his downfall like a
man, he was playing with exaggerated honesty the part
of a fallen gentleman and ruined heir.

'you think that very alarming then? but I assure
you it depends altogether on how you look at it. My
father worked incessantly, and it was his glory. If I
work, not as a chief, but as an underling, it will not bea
bit less honourable."

"Markham, can you suppose for a moment that I
think it less honourable?" said Fairfax; "quite

otherwise. But does it mean ? Stop, I must tell

you something before I ask you any questions. That
little beggar who calls himself your brother "

"I believe he is my brother," said Paul, formally;

and then he added with another laugh : " that is the
noble development to which the house of Markham
has come."

"He is there. Yes, in the dining-room, waiting for
his luncheon. One moment, Markham ! — we were at
the inn in the village together, and he has hung
himself on to me. What could I do ? he knew nothing
about London ; he is as helpless as a baby. And the
ladies," said Fairfax, his countenance changing, *the
ladies — take it as a sign that I am siding with him
against you."

He felt a quiver come over his face like that of a
boy who is complaining of ill-usage, and for the moment
could scarcely subdue a rueful laugh at his own
expense ; but Paul laughed no more. He became more
than ever like the head of an office, too young for his
post, and solemnised by the weight of it. His face
shaped itself into still more profound agreement with
the solemnity of those black clothes.

"Pardon me, my good fellow," he said. Paul was
not one of the men to whom this mode of address comes
natural. There was again a theatrical heroism in his
look. " Pardon me ; but in such a matter as this I

don't see what your siding could do for either one or
the other. It is fact that is in question, nothing else."

And with a hasty good day he turned and went down
the steps where they had been talking. Fairfax was
left alone, and never man stood on the steps of a club
and looked out upon the world and the passing cabs
and passengers with feelings more entirely uncomfortable.
He had not been unfaithful in a thought to
his friend, but all the circumstances were against him.
For a few minutes he stood and reflected what he
should do. He could not go and sit down at table
comfortably with the unconscious little man who had
made the breach ; and yet he could not throw him over.
Finally he sent a message by one of the servants to tell
Gus that he had been called unexpectedly away, and
set off down the street at his quickest pace. He
walked a long way before he stopped himself. He was
anxious to make it impossible that he should meet
either Gus again or Paul. Soon the streets began to
close in. A dingier and darker part of London received
him. He walked on, half interested, half disgusted.
How seldom, save perhaps in a hansom driven at full
speed, had he ever traversed those streets leading one

out of another, these labyrinths of poverty and toil.
As he went on, thinking of many things that he had
thought of lightly enough in his day, and which were
suggested by the comparison between the region in
which he now found himself and that which he had left
the inequalities and unlikeness of mankind, the
strange difference of fate — his ear was suddenly caught
by the sound of a familiar voice. Fairfax paused, half
thinking that it was the muddle in his mind, caused by
that association of ideas with the practical drama of
existence in which he found himself involved, which
suggested this voice to him ; but looking round he
suddenly found himself, as he went across one of the
many narrow streets which crossed the central line of
road, face to face with the burly form of Spears.

'you here, too," said the demagogue; "I thought
this was a time when all you fine folks were enjoying
yourselves, and London was left to the toilers and
boilers."

Am I one of the fine folks ? I am afraid that
proves how little you know of them, Spears."

'' Well, I don't pretend to know much," said Spears.
Markham's here, too. And what is all this about
Markham ? I don't understand a word of it."

'' What is about him ? "

Fairfax was determined to breathe no word of Paul's
altered circumstances to any one, sheltering himself
under the fact that he himself knew nothing definite.
The orator looked at him with a gaze which it was
difficult to elude.

"I thought you had been with the family at that
grand house of theirs ? However ! Paul was hot upon
our emigration scheme, you know; he would hear no
reason on that subject. I warned him that it was nota
thing for men like him, with soft hands and muscles
unstrung; but he paid me no attention. There was
another thing, I believe, a secondary motive," said
Spears, with a wave of his hand, '' a thing that never
would have come into my head, which his mother found
out — the kind of business that women do find out.
Well ! His father is dead, and I suppose he has come
into the title and all that. But here's the rub. We are
within a fortnight of our start, and never another word
from Paul. What does he mean by it? has he been
persuaded by the women ? has he thrown us overboard
and gone in for the old business of landlord and aristocrat
? I have told him many a time it was in his blood ;
but never was there one more hot for better principles.
Now look here, Fairfax, you're not the man to pretend
ignorance. What do you know ? "

Nothing but that Sir William is dead."
*' Sir William is dead, that means, long live Sir Paul :
Imp Toy est morte, reeve lay roy" said Spears, with honest

English pronunciation. '' Yes, the papers would tell
you that. If he's going to give it all up' he went on, a
deep colour coming over his face, " I shan't be surprised.
I don't say that I'll like it, but I shan't be surprised.
A large property — and a title — may be a temptation :
but in that case it's his duty to let us know. I suppose
you and he see each other sometimes ? "

By chance we have met to-day."

'' By chance ? I thought you were always meeting.
Well, what does he mean ? I acknowledge," said Spears,
with very conscious satire, " that a Sir Paul in our band
will be an oddity. It wouldn't be much more wonderful
if it was St. Paul," he added, with a laugh ; " but
one way or other I must know. And I don't mind
confessing to you," he said, turning into the way by which
Fairfax seemed to be walking, and suddenly striking
him on the shoulder with an amicable but not slight
blow, " that it will be a disappointment. I had rather
committed the folly of setting my heart on that lad.
He was the kind of thing, you know, that we mean in
our class when we say a gentleman. There's you, now,
you're a gentleman, too ; but I make little account of
you. You might just as well have been brought up in

my shop or in trade. But there's something about
Paul, mind you — that's where it is; he's got that grand
air, and that hot-headed way. I hate social distinctions,
but he's above them. The power of money is to me like
a horrible monster, but he scorns it. Do you see what
I mean ? A man like me reasons it all out, and sees
the harm of it, and the devilry of it, and it fires his
blood. But Paul, he holds his head in the air, and
treats it like the dirt below his feet. That's fine, that
takes hold of the imagination. I don't mean to hurt
your feelings, Fairfax," said Spears, giving him another
friendly tap on the shoulder, " but you're just a careless
fellow, one thing doesn't matter more than another
to you."

"Quite true. I am not offended," said Fairfax,
laughing. " You discriminate very well, Spears, as
you always do."

Yes, I suppose I have a knack that way," said the
demagogue, simply. " I shouldn't wonder," he added,
though it is not a subject that a man can question his
daughter about, that it was just the same thing that
attracted my girl."

Fairfax turned round upon him with quick surprise ;

VOL. III. E

he had not heard anything about Janet. " What ! " he

said, " has Markham " and then paused ; for Spears,

though indulgent to freedom of speech, was in this one
point a dangerous person to meddle with. He turned
round, with all the force of his rugged features and
broad shoulders, and looked the questioner in the face.

Yes," he said, '' Markham has — a fancy for my Janet.
There is nothing very wonderful in that. His mother
tried to persuade me that this was the entire cause of
his devotion to my principles and me. But that is a
way women have. They think nothing comparable to
their own influence. He satisfied me as to that.
Yes," said Spears, with a softened, meditative tone,
that is the secondary motive I spoke of; and, to tell
the truth, when I heard of the old fellow's death I was
sorry. I said to myself, the girl will never be able to
resist the temptation of being ' my lady.' "

A smile began to creep about the corners of his
mouth. For himself, it is very likely that Spears would
have had virtue enough to carry out his own principles
and resist all bribes of rank had they been thrown in his
way ; but he contemplated the possible elevation of his
child with a tender sense of the wonderful, and the

ludicrous, and incredible which melted all sterner
feelings. The idea that Janet might be " my lady " filled
him with a subdued pleasure and amusement, and a
subtle pride which veiled itself in the humour of the
notion. It made him smile in spite of himself As for
Fairfax, this had so completely taken his breath away
that he seemed beyond the power of speech, and Spears
went on musingly for a minute or two walking beside
him, his active thoughts lulled by the fantastic pleasure
of that vision, and the smile still lingered about his
closely-shut lips. At last he started from the weakness
of this reverie.

There is to be a meeting to-night," he said, " down
in one of these streets — and I'm going to give them an
address. I've got the name of the street here in my
pocket and the house and all that — if you like to come."

Certainly I will come," said Fairfax with alacrity.
He had not much to occupy his evenings, and he took
a kind of careless speculative interest, not like Paul's
impassioned adoption of the scheme and all its issues, in
Spears' s political crusade. The demagogue patted him
on the shoulders once more as he left him. He had
always half-patronised, half stood in awe of Fairfax,

E 2

UNW.ERSnY OF »U1W0»

whose careless humour sometimes threw a passing Aught
of ridicule even on the cause. " If you see Markham,
bring him along with you ; and tell him I must understand
what he means," he said.

But Fairfax did not see Paul again. He did not
indeed put himself in the way of Paul, though his
mind was full of him, for the rest of the day. Janet
Spears was a new complication in Paul's way. The
whole situation was dreary and hopeless enough. His
position as head in his house and family, the importance,
his wealth, his power of influencing others, all
taken from him in a day, and Spears's daughter —
Janet Spears — hung round his neck like a millstone.
Paul ! of all men in the world to get into such a vulgar
complication, Paul was about the last. And yet
there could be no mistake about it. Fairfax, who
honestly felt himself Paul's inferior in everything, heard
this news with the wondering dismay of one whose own
thoughts had taken a direction as much above him (he
thought) as the other's was beneath him. With a
painful flush of bewilderment, he thought of himself
floated up into regions above himself into a different
atmosphere, another world, by means of the woman who

had been Paul's companion all his life, while Paul

He had heard of such things ; of men falling into the
mire out of the purest places, of rebellions from the best
to the worst. They were common enough. But that
it should be Paul !

When evening came he took his way to the crowded
quarter where he had met Spears, and to the meeting,
which was held in a back room in an unsavoury street.
It had beo'un to rain, the air was wet and warm, the
streets muddy, the floor of the room black and stained
with many footsteps. There was a number of men
packed together in a comparatively small space, which
soon became almost insupportable with the flaring gaslights,
the odour from their damp clothes, and their
breath. At one end of it were a few men seated round
a table, Spears among them. Fairfax could only get in
at the other end, and close to the door, which was the
saving of him. He exercised politeness at a cheap cost
by letting everybody who came penetrate further than
he. Some of the men looked at him with suspicion.
He had kept on his morning dress, but even that was
very different from the clothes they wore. They were
not very penetrating in respect to looks, and some of

them thought him a policeman in plain clothes. This
was not a comfortable notion among a number of hot-blooded
men. Fairfax, however, soon became too much
interested in the proceedings to observe the looks that
were directed to himself There was a good deal of
commonplace business to be gone through first — small
subscriptions to pay, some of which were weekly ; little
books to produce, with little sums marked ; reports to
be given in, on here and there a wavering member, a
falling back into the world, a new convert. It looked
to Fairfax at first like a parochial meeting about the
little charities of the parish, the schools, and the almshouses.
Perhaps organisation of every kind has its
inherent vulgarities. This movement felt grand, heroic,
to the men engaged in it, how much above the curate
and his pennies who could say ; but it seemed inevitable
that it should begin in the same way.

The walls were roughly plastered and washed with a
dingy tone of colour. The men sat on benches which
were very uncomfortable, and showed all the independent
curves of backs which toil had not straightened, the
rough heads and dingy clothes. Over all this the gas
flickered, unmitigated even by the usual glass globe.

There was a constant shuffling of feet, a murmur of
conversation, sometimes the joke of a privileged wit
whispered about with earthquakes of suppressed
laughter. For the men, on the whole, suppressed
themselves with the sense of the dignity of a meeting
and the expectation of Spears 's address. '' He's a fellow
from the North, ain't he ? " Fairfax heard one man say.
No, he's a miner fellow." "He's one of the cotton
spinners." While another added authoritatively, " None
of you know anything about it. It's Spears the delegate.
He's been sent about all over the place. There's been
some talk of sending him to Parliament." " Parliament !
I put no faith in Parliament." '' No more do I." " Nor
I," the men said. 'rand yet," said the first speaker,
*' we've got no chance of getting our rights till they've
got a lot like him there."

At this moment one of the men at the table rose, and
there was instant silence. The lights flared, the rain
rained outside with a persistent swish upon the pavement,
the restless feet shuffled upon the floor, but otherwise
there was not a sound to interrupt the stillness. This
was somewhat tried, however, by the reading of a
report, still very like a missionary report in a parish

meeting. There was a good deal about an S. C. and an
L. M. who had been led to think of higher principles of
political morality by the action of the society, and who
had now finally given in their adhesion. The meeting
greeted the announcement of these new members
by knocking with their boot-heels upon the floor. Then
some one else got up and said that the prospects of the
society were most hopeful, and that the conversion of
L. C. and S. M. were only an earnest of what was to come.
Soon the whole mass of the working classes, as already its
highest intelligence, would be with them. The meeting
again applauded this " highest intelligence." They felt
it in themselves, and they liked the compliment. " Mr.
Spears will now address the meeting," the last speaker
said, and then this confused part of the proceeding came
to an end, and everything became clear again when
Spears spoke.

And yet Fairfax thought, looking on, it was by no
means clear what Spears wanted, or wished to persuade
the others that they wanted. Very soon, however, he
secured their attention which was one great point ; the
very feet got disciplined into quiet, and when a late
member came down the long passage which led straight

into this room, there was a universal murmur and hush
as he bustled in. Spears stood up and looked round
him, his powerful square shoulders and rugged face
dominating the assembly. He took a kind of text
for his address, " not from the Bible," he said, " which
many of you think out of date," at which there was a
murmur, chiefly of assent ; '' mind you," said the orator,
I don't ; that's a subject on which I'm free to keep my
private opinion ; but the other book you'll allow is never
out of date. It's from the sayings of a man that woke
up out of the easy thoughts of a lad, the taking everything
for granted as we all do one time or another, to
find that he could take nothing for granted, that all
about was false, horrible, mean, and sham. That was
the worst of it all — sham. He found the mother that
bore him was a false woman and the girl he loved hid
his enemy behind the door to listen to what he was
saying, and his friends, the fellows he had played with,
went off with him on a false errand, with letters to get
him killed, ' There's something rotten,' says he 'in this
State of Denmark — ' that was all the poor fellow
could get out at first, ' something rotten ; ' ay, ay,
Prince Hamlet, a deal that was rotten. We're not fond

of princes, my friends," said Spears, stopping short with
a gleam of humour in his face, " but Shakspeare lived a
good few years ago, and hadn't found that out. We've
made a great many discoveries since his day."

At this the feet applauded again, but there was a
little doubtfulness upon the faces of the audience who
did not see what the speaker meant to be at.

' There's something rotten in the state of Denmark,
that's what he said. He didn't mean Denmark anymore
than I mean Clerkenwell. He meant this life he
was living in, where the scum floated to the top, and
nothing was what it seemed. That was Hamlet's
quarrel with the world, and it's my quarrel, and yours,
and every thinking man's. It was a grand idea, my
friends, to make a government, to have a king. Yes,
wait a bit till I've finished my sentence. I tell you it
was a noble idea," said the orator, raising his voice,
and cowing into silence half a dozen violent contradictions,
" to get hold of the best man and set him up thereto
help them that couldn't help themselves, to make the
strong merciful and the weak brave. That was an idea !
I honour the man that invented it whoever he was;
but I'd lay you all a fortune if I had it, I'd wager all

I'm worth (Which isn't much) that whoever the first king-was,
that was made after he had found out the notion, it
wasn't he ! And it was a failure, my lads," said Spears.

At this there was a tumult of applause. " I don't
see anything to stamp about for my part," he said
shaking his head. '' That gives me no pleasure. It
was a grand idea, but as sure as life they took the wrong-man,
and it was a failure. And it has always been a
failure and always will bo — so now there's nothing for it
but to abolish kii^gs "

The rest of the sentence was lost in wild applause.

But the worst is," continued the speaker, " that we've
done that practically for a long time in England, and
we're none the better. Instead of one bad king we've got
Parliament, which is a heap of bad kings. Men that
care no more far the people than I care for that fly.
Men that will grind you, and tax you, and make merchandise
of you, and neglect your interest and tread you
down to the ground. Many is the cheat they've passed
upon you. At this moment you cheer me when I say
down with the kings, but you look at one another and you
raise your eyebrows when I say down with the parliament.
You've got the suffrage and you think that's all right.

The suffrage ! what does the suffrage do for you ? It's
another sham, a little stronger than all the rest.
They'll give more of you, and more of you the suffrage,
till they let in the women (I don't say a word against
that. Some of the women have more sense than you
have, and the rest you can always whop them) and the
babies next for anything I can tell. And it will all be
rotten, rotten, rotten to the core. And then a great
cry will rise out of this poor country, and it will be Hamlet
again," cried the orator, pouring out the full force of his
great melodious voice from his broad chest — '' ' Oh,
cursed spite, that ever I was born to set it right ! ' "

There was a feeble stamp or two upon the floor ; but
the audience, though curious and impressed, were not
up to the level of the speaker, and did not know what
to make of him. He saw this, and he changed his tone.

I read the other day of the kind of parliament that
was a real parliament of the people. Once every two
months the whole population met in a great square ; and
there they were asked to choose the men that were
to govern them. They voted all by word of mouth
no ballot tickets in those days — for there was not
one of them that was afraid to give his opinion.

They chose their men for two months, no more.
They were men that were known to all the place
that had been known from their cradles ; no strangers
there, but men they could lay their hands on if they
went wrong. It was for two months only, as I tell you,
and then the parliament came together again, and the
men they had chosen gave an account of what they had
done. In my opinion — I don't know what you may
think — that was as perfect a plan of government, and
as true a rule of the people as ever existed on this globe.
Who is that grumbling behind there ? If it is you,
Paul Markham, stand up like a man and say what
you've got to say."

There was a pause for a moment, and everybody
looked round ; but as no reply was made, the hearers
drowned all attempts at opposition in a tumult of
stamping feet and approving exclamations. '' That
Alas something like," they cried. And 'ego on. Goon
! Bravo, Spears ! "

''Ah, yes. You say 'Bravo, Spears!' because I
humour you. But that young fellow there at the back,
I know what he meant to say. It was all rotten, rotten,
rotten to the core; that peoples' parliament was the

greatest humbug that ever was seen ; it was the instrument
of tyrants ; it was the murderer of freedom ;
there was nothing too silly, nothing too wicked for it ;
its vote was a sham, and its wisdom was a sham. Ah !
you don't cry ' Bravo, Spears ! ' any more. The reason
of all this is that we never get hold of the right men.
I don't know what there is in human nature that makes
it so. I have studied it a deal, but I've never found
that out. The scum gets uppermost, boils up and sticks
on the top. That's my experience. The less honest a
man is, the more sure he is to get up to the top. I
don't speak of being born equal like some folks ; but I
think every man has a right to his share of the place
he's born in — a right to have his portion wherever he is.
One man with another, our wants are about the same.
One eats a little more, one drinks a little more (and we
all do more of that than is good for us), than the rest.
But what we've got a right to is our share of what's
going. Instead of great estates, great parks, grand
palaces where those who call themselves our masters
live and starve us, we have a right, every man, to

enough of it to live on, to enough "

Here the speaker was interrupted by the clamour of

the cheering. The men rose up and shouted ; they
drowned his voice in the enthusiasm , of their delight.
Paul had come in behind after Spears began to speak.
Though there had been in him a momentary movement
of offence when he saw Fairfax, yet he had ended by
remaining close to him, not seated, however, by leaning
against the doorway in the sight of all. And it was
likewise apparent in the sight of all that he was dressed,
not like Fairfax in morning clothes, which offered a less
visible contrast with the men surrounding him, but in
evening dress, only partially covered by his light overcoat.
He had come indeed to this assembly met to
denounce all rights of the aristocrat, in the very livery
of social superiority. Fairfax, who was anxious about
the issue, could not understand what it meant. Paul's
eyes were fixed upon Spears, and there was a half smile
and air of something that might be taken for contempt
on his face.

The applause went to the orator's head. He plunged
into violent illustrations of his theory, by the common
instances of riot, impurity, extravagance, debt, and
general wickedness which were to be found in what were
called the higher classes. Perhaps Spears himself was

aware that his arguments would not bear a very close examination
: and the face of his disciple there before him,
the face which had hitherto glowed with acquiescence,
flushed with india-nation, answered every appeal he made,
but which was now set, pale, and impassive, without any
response at all, with indeed an evident determination
to withstand him — filled him with a curious passion.
He could not understand it, and he could not endure
to see Paul standing there, Paul, his son in the faith, his
disciple of whom he was unconsciously more proud than
of all the other converts he had made, with that air of
contradiction and defiance. The applause excited him
and this tacit opposition excited him still more. Fairfax
had produced no such effect upon the demagogue ; he had
been but a half believer at the best, a critic more
interested than convinced. He was one of those whom
other men can permit to look on, from whom they can
accept sympathy without concurrence, and tolerate
dissent. But with Paul the case was very different.
Every glance at him inflamed the mind of Spears. Was
it possible (the idea flashed across his mind in full
torrent of his speech) that this beloved disciple was
lost to him ? He would not believe it, he would not

permit it to be ; and with this impulse he flung forth
his burning accusations, piled up sham and scandal upon
the heads of aristocrats, represented them as standing
in the way of every good undertaking, of treading down
the poor on every side, of riding roughshod everywhere
over liberties and charities alike, robbers of their bre then,
destroyers of their fellow-creatures. And as every burning
period poured forth, the noise, the enthusiasm
became indescribable. The men who listened were no
more murderous rebels than English landlords and
millionaires are sanguinary oppressors, but they shouted
and stamped, and rent their throats with applause, all
the more that they were well acquainted with these
arguments. Hamlet and " the cursed spite " of his
position were of doubtful interest; but here was
something which they understood. Thus they went on
together, mutually exciting each other, the speaker and
the listeners — until suddenly in the midst of the hubbub
a strange note, a new voice, struck in, and caught them
all in full uproar.

'* What's that ? " cried Spears, with the quick hearing
of offended affection. " You behind there — some one
spoke."

VOL. in. F

The men all turned round — the entire assembly — to
see what the interruption was. Then they saw, leaning
carelessly against the wall, his grey overcoat open, showing
the expanse of fine linen, the silk lapels of the
evening coat in which Paul had chosen to array himself,
the young aristocrat, looking his part to the fullest
perfection, with scorn on his face, and proud indifference,
careless of them and their opinions. The mere sight
of him brought an impulse of fierce hostility.

'' I said, that's not so," said Paul, distinctly, throwing
his defiance over all their heads at his old
instructor. Spears was almost beside himself with
pain and passion.

"Do you give me the lie," he said, "to my face —
you, Paul ? Oh, you shall have your title — that's the
meaning of the charge ! ^ you, Sir Paul Markham,
baronet, — Do you give me the lie ? "

*' If you like to take it so, Speak's. You know as well
as I do that men are not monsters like that in one
rank and heroes in another. Title or no title, that's
the truth, and you know it — whatever those men that
take in everything you are saying may think. You
know that's not so."

The excited listeners saw Spears grow pale and wince.
Then he shouted out with an excited voice —

And that's a lie whoever said it. I ! say one thing
and mean another ! The time has been when a man
that said that to me would have rued it. He would
have rued it "

And he shall rue it ! " said a voice in the crowd.
The people turned round with a common impulse.
Fairfax, when he saw what was coming., had risen too,
and thrown himself in front of Paul. He was not so
tall a man, and Paul's dark hair towered over his light
locks. He tried to push him out into the narrow-flagged
passage, and called to him to go — to go ! But
Paul's blood was up ; he stood and faced them all,
holding his arm before him in defence against the raised
fists and threatening looks. " I'm one against a hundred,"
Jae said, perfectly calm. " You can do what you please.
I will not give in, whatever you do. I tell you what
Spears says is not true."

And then the uproar got up again and raged round
them. There was a hesitation about striking the first
blow. Nobody liked to begin the onslaught upon one
single man, or a man with but one supporter. Fairfax

F 2

got his arm into his, and did his best to push and drag
him away into the paved passage. But it was not till
Spears himself, breaking through the angry crowd, gave
him a thrust with his powerful arm that he yielded.
What might have happened even then, Fairfax did not
know ; for the passage was narrow, and the two or three
people hanging about the door sufficed to make another
angry crowd in their way. While, however, he was
pushing his way along by the wall, doing all he could
to impel before him Paul's reluctant figure, a door suddenly
opened behind them, a light flashed out, and
some one called to them to come in. Paul stumbled
backwards, fortunately, over the step, and was thus got
at a disadvantage ; and in two minutes more Fairfax
had struggled in, bringing his companion with him.
The place into which they were admitted was a narrow
passage, quite dark — and the contrast from the noise
and crowd without to this silence bewildered the young
men. Even then, however, the voice of Spears reached
them over the murmur of the crowd.

There's a specimen for you ! " cried the orator, with
a harsh laugh. " The scum come uppermost ! What
did I tell you? that, take what pains you like, you

never get the right man. I loved that lad like my son ;
and all I said was gospel to him. But he has come
into his title, he has come into the land he swore he
never would take from the people, and there's the end.
Would you like a better proof of what I said ? Oh,
rotten, rotten, rotten to the core ! "

They were in a small, dingy room, lighted with one
feeble candle — still within hearing of the tumult close
by. Paul had twisted his foot in the stumble, which
was the only thing that had saved him from a scuffle
and possible fight. He was paler than before with the
pain. He had put his foot up upon a chair at Fairfax's
entreaty, who feared a sprain; but himself, in his
excitement, did not seem to feel it.

My title and my lands ! " he said, with a laugh
which was more bitter than that of Spears. " You
heard him, Fairfax. I've come into my property ; that
is what has caused this change in my opinions."

"Never mind, the man's a fool," said Fairfax
angrily.

'* He is not a fool," said Paul, " but it shows how

well you can judge a man when you do not know his
circumstances."

Fairfax, however, it must be owned, was as much
puzzled as Spears. What was it that had caused the
change ? It was not much more than a month since
Paul's devotion to Spears and his scheme had kept him
from his father's death-bed. He had been intent then
on giving up his whole life to the creed which this
evening he had publicly contradicted in the face of its
excited supporters. Fairfax could not make out what it
meant any more than the deserted demagogue could.
If Paul, indeed, had reached the high top-gallant of his
fortunes — if he had held the control of a large property
in his hands — a position like that of a prince — there
might have been reason in such a change of faith.
Though it gave a certain foundation for Spears's bitter
sneer, yet there was reason in it. A young man might
very well be justified in abandoning the society, of
revolutionaries, when he himself entered the ranks of
those who are responsible for the safety of the country
and have a great deal to lose. But he did not understand
Paul's position now, and a change so singular
bewildered him. It was not, however, either necessary

or expedient to enter into that question; and he
addressed himself with more satisfaction to rubbing the
injured ankle. He had asked the woman who admitted
them, and who was in great terror of *' the meeting," to
get a cab, but had been answered that she dared not
leave the house, and that they must not think of leaving
the house till all was over in the " Hall." It was nota
cheerful prospect. To his surprise, however, Paul
showed less impatience than he did. He was full of
the place and the discussion they had just left.

'' He is no fool," Paul said, " that is the most wonderful
of all. A man may go on telling a pack of lies for
years, and yet be as true in himself as all the rest is
false. I understand your looks, Fairfax. You think I
have gone as far as most men."

Keep your foot still, my good fellow," was all
Fairfax said.

'That is all very well; you want an explanation of
my conduct," said Paul. " You want to know what this
inconsistency means ; for it is inconsistency. Well, then,
there's just this, that I don't mean to tell. I am as
free as another man to form my own opinions, I hope."

Hark ! they're cheering again," said Fairfax.

What fellows they are to cheer ! He has got them
into a good humour. They looked savage enough half
an hour ago. It's a little absurd, isn't it, that you
and I, Paul, Who have been considered very advanced
in our political opinions, should be in a kind of
biding here ? "

Hiding ! I will go back at once and make my
profession of faith," cried Paul ; but when he sprang upto
carry out his intention, the pain of his foot overpowered
him. " Have I sprained it, do you think ? —
that is an affair of four or five weeks," he said, with a
look of dismay.

After this very little passed. They sat on each side
of the little deal table with the coarse candle sputtering
between them, and listened to the hoarse sounds of the
voices, the tumultuous applause on the other side of the
wall. This was still going on, though in subdued tones,
when the door suddenly opened. It was not easy at first
to see who had come in, till Spears's face appeared over
the flickering light. It was angry and dark, and overclouded
with something like shame.

I am glad you are here still, you two," he said in
subdued tones.

Neither of the young men spoke. At last Fairfax,
who was not the one on whom his eyes were bent,
said —

"We were waiting till the meeting was over. Till
then, it appears, we can't have a cab sent for. Markham
has hurt his foot."

Good Lord ! How did he do that ? " Spears came
round and looked at it where it lay supported on the
chair. He looked as if he would have liked to stroke
and pet the injured limb like a child. '^I hope it was
none of those fellows with their pushing and stupid
folly," he said.

It was not done by any refinement of politeness,
certainly."

These were the first words Paul had said, and they
were uttered with the same half mocking smile.

"They're rough fellows, that's the truth," said
Spears ; " and they have an idiot for a guide," he went
on in a low voice. "Look here, Paul, you aggravated
me with those grand looks of yours, and that sneer.
You know as well as I do what puts me out. When
it's a fellow I care for, I can't stand it. All the asses in
Rotten Row might come and haw-haw at me, and I

shouldn't mind ; but you ! that are a kind of child of
my soul, Paul !"

"I hope your other children will get more mercy
from you, then," said Paul, without looking at him.
"You have not had much for me, Spears."

'' I, lad ? What have I ever done but cherish you as
if you were my own ! I have been as proud of you — !
All your fine ways that Pve jibed about have been a
pleasure to me all the time. It went to my heart to
think that you, the finest aristocrat of all the lot, were
following old Spears for love of a principle. I said to
myself, abuse them as we like, there's stuff in these old
races — there's something in that blue blood. I don't
deny it before you two, that may laugh at me as you
please. I that have just been telling all those lads that
it's the scum that comes uppermost (and believe it too).
I that have sworn an eternal war against the principle
of unequal rank and accumulation of property — "

Spears paused. There was nothing ludicrous to him
in the idea of this eternal war, waged by a nameless
stump orator against all the kingdoms of the world and
the power of them. He was too much in earnest to be
conscious of any absurdity. He was as serious in his

crusade as if he had been a conqueror with life and
death in his hands, and his voice trembled with the
reality of this confession which he was going to make.

'' Well ! " he said, " I, of whom you know all this as
well as I do myself, I've been proud of your birth and
your breeding, Paul, because it was all the grander of
you to forget them for the cause. I've dwelt on these
things in my mind. I've said, there's the flower of
them all, and he's following after me ! Look here !
you're not going to take it so dreadfully amiss if, after
not hearing a word from you, after not knowing what
you were going to do, seeing you suddenly opposite
to me with your most aggravating look (and you can
put on an aggravating look when you like, you know
you can, and drive me wild," Spears said with a
deprecating, tender smile, putting his hand, caressingly,
on the back of Paul's chair) — ''if I let out a bitter
word, a lash of ill-temper against my will, you are not
going to make that a quarrel between you and me."

The man's large mobile features were working, his
eyes shining out under their heavy brows. The
generous soul in him was moved to its depth. He had,
being " wild," as he said, with sudden passion, accused

Paul of having yielded to the seductions of his new
rank — but in his heart he did not believe the accusation
he had made. He trusted his young disciple with all
the doting confidence of a woman. Of a woman ! his
daughter Janet, though she was a woman, and a young
one, had no such enthusiasm of trust in her being.
She would have scorned his weakness had she been by
very differently would Janet have dealt with a
hesitating lover. But the demagogue had enthroned
in his soul an ideal to which, perhaps, his very tenderest
affections, the deepest sentiments he was capable
of, had clung. He had fallen for the moment into that
madness which works in the brain when we are wroth
with those we love. And he did not know now how to
make sufficient amends for it, how to open wide enough
that window into his heart which showed the quivering
and longing within. But he had said for the moment
all he could say.

And for a time there was silence in the little room.
Fairfax, who understood him, turned away, and began
to stare at a rude-coloured print on the wall in order to
leave the others alone. He would himself have held
out his hand before half this self-revelation had been

made, and perhaps Spears would have but lightly
appreciated that naive response. But Paul was by no
means ready to yield. He kept silence for what seemed
to the interested spectator ten minutes at least. Then
he said, slowly —

I think it would be wise to inquire into the facts of
the case before permitting yourself to use such language,
Spears — even if you had not roused your rabble
against me."

He said these strident words in the most forcible way,
making the r's roll.

Rabble ? " Spears repeated, with a tone of dismay;
but his patience was not exhausted, nor his penitence.
I know," he said, " it was wrong. I don't excuse
myself. I behaved like a fool, and it costs a man like
me something to say that. Paul — come ! why should
we quarrel ? Let bygones be bygones. They should have
torn me to pieces before they had laid a finger on you."

"A good many of them would have smarted for it if
they had laid a finger on me," said Paul. "That I
promise you."

Spears laughed; his mind was relieved. He gave
his vigorous person a shake and was himself again.

"Well, that is all over," he said. "It will be a
lesson to me. I am a confounded fool at bottom after
all. Whatever mental advantages you may have, that's
what the best of us have to come to. My blood gets
hot, and I lose my head. There's a few extenuating
circumstances though. Have you forgotten, Paul, that
we were to sail in October, and it's the 20th of
September now? Not a word have I heard from you
since you left Oxford, three weeks ago. What was I to
think ? I know what's happened in the meantime ;
and I don't say," said Spears, slowly, " that if you were
to throw us overboard at the last moment, it would bea
thing without justification. I told you at the time
you would be more wise to let us alone. But you
never had an old head on young shoulders. A generous

heart never counts the cost in that way ; still And

the time, my dear fellow, is drawing very near."

I may as well tell you," said Paul, tersely, " I am
not going with you, Spears."

The man sat firm in his chair as if he had received
a blow, leaning back a little, pressing himself against
the woodwork.

Well ! " he said, and kept upon his face a curious

smile — the smile, and the effort alike, showing how
deeply the stroke had penetrated. 'well!" he repeated,
" now that I know everything — now you have
told me — I don't know that I have a word to say."

Paul said nothing, and for another minute there was
again perfect silence. Then Spears resumed —

''I thought as much," he said. ''I have always
thought it since the day you went away. A man
understands that sort of thing by instinct. Well ! ita
disappointment, I don't deny; but no doubt," said
Spears, with a suppressed tone of satire in his voice,
though I've no experience of the duties of a rich
baronet, nor the things it lays upon you, no doubt
there's plenty to do in that avocation ; and looking
after property requires work. There's a thousand
things that it must now seem more necessary to do
than to start away across the Atlantic with a set of
visionaries. I told you so at the beginning, Paul — or
Sir Paul, I suppose I ought to say ; but titles are not
much in my way," he added, with a smile, "as you
know."

"You may save yourself the trouble of titles here,
for I am not Sir Paul, nor have I anything in the way

of property to look after that will give me much
trouble. It appears:" said Paul, with a smile that
was very like that of Spears, which sat on his lips
like a grimace, " it appears that I have an elder
brother who is kind enough to relieve me from
all inconvenience of that sort."

Spears turned to Fairfax with a look of consternation,
as if appealing to him to guarantee the sanity of
his friend.

'* What does he mean ? " he cried, bewildered.

We need not go into all the question' said Paul.
*' Fairfax, haven't they got that cab yet ? My foot's
better — I can walk to the door, and these gentlemen
seem to be dispersing. We need not enter into explanations.
I'm not a rich baronet, that is about all.
The scum has not come uppermost this time. You see
you made a mistake in your estimate of my motives."

This time he laughed that harsh, bitter, metallic
laugh which is one of the signs of nervous passion.
He had such a superiority over his assailant as nothing
else could have given him. And as for Spears, shame,
and wonder, and distress, struck him dumb. He gasped
for breath.

VOL. in. G

My God ! " he said ; " and I to fall upon you for
what had never happened, and taunt you with wealth
when you were poor. Poor ! are you actually poor,
Paul ? "

What is the use of searching into it ? the facts
are as I have told you. I shan't starve," said the
young man, holding his head high.

Spears looked at him with a mixture of grief and
satisfaction, and held out a large hand.

Never mind," he said, his face melting and working,
and a smile of a very different character gleaming over
it, '' you would have been out of place with us if you
lead been Sir Paul ; but come now, my lad, come now !
It's not money we want, but men. Come with us,
you'll be as welcome as the sunshine, though you have
not a penny. For a rich man, I could see myself the
incongruity ; but for a poor man, what could be better
than a new country and a fair field. Come ! don't
bear malice for a few hasty words that were repented
of as soon as they were said. I would have scorned to
pay a word had you been kept back by your new
grandeur. But now that you're disinherited — why,
Paul, come — Australia is the place for such as you.

Young and strong, with a good heart, and all the
world before you ! Why, there's a new country for
you to get hold of, to govern, if you like. Come ! I'll
not oppose any dignity you may gain out there ; and I
tell you, you'll have the ball at your foot, and the whole
world before you ! Come with us, T ask this time as a
favour, Paul."

He had held out his hand with some wavering and
doubt, though with enthusiasm. But gradually a
curious expression of wonder came to his face ; his
hand dropped at his side. Paul made no motion
towards taking it ; the demagogue thought it was
resentment. A flush of vivid colour came over him.
Come, this is a little too much for old friends," he
said, getting up hastily from his chair, with a thrill of
wounded feeling in his voice.

"Don't wrong him. Spears," said Fairfax. ''He has
had a great deal to bother him, and his foot is bad.
You can meet another time and settle that. At present,
let us get him out of this place. If he is angry, he
has a right to be ; but never mind that now. Let us
get him out of here."

Spears did not say another word. He stalked away

G 2

into the house to which this room belonged, and the
hall " beyond it. It was a little tavern of the lower
class in which he was living. By and by the woman
came to say there was a cab at the door. And Paul
limped out, leaning on Fairfax.

All was quiet outside, the meeting dispersed ; only
one or two men sitting in the room down stairs, who
cast a curious look upon the two young men, but took
no further notice. As for Spears, he did not appear at
all. He was lurking behind, his heart wrung with
various feelings, but too much wounded, too much disappointed,
too sore and sad to show himself If Paul
had seemed to require help, the rejected prophet was
lingering in the hope of offering it ; but nothing of the
kind seemed the case. He limped out holding Fairfax's
arm. He did not even look round him as the other
did, or show any signs of a wish to see his former
friend. Spears had not got through the world up to
this time without mortification ; but he had never
suffered so acutely as now.

"Poor Spears," Fairfax contrived to say, as they jolted
along:, leaving: the mean and monotonous streets behind
them. '' I think you might have taken his hand."

'' Pshaw ! " said Paul, '* I am tired to death of all
that. I don't mean to say he is not honest — far
more honest than most of them — but what is the
meaning of all that clap-trap ? Why, Spears ought to
know as well as any man what folly it is. Bosh ! " said
the young man with an expression of disgust. The
milder spectator beside him looked at him with
unfeigned surprise.

I thought you went as far as he did, Markham. I
thought you were out and out in your principles,
accepting no compromise : I thought — : — "

You thought I was a fool," said Paul, bitterly,
and you were right enough, if that is any satisfaction
to you ; but I had a lesson or two before my poor
father's death — and more since. Don't let us speak of
it. When a man has made an ass of himself, it is no
pleasure to him to dwell upon it. And I am not free
yet, and I don't know when I shall be," he cried, with
an irrepressible desire for sympathy, then closed his
mouth as if he had shut a book, and said no more.

Thus they went jolting and creaking over the wet
pavements all gleaming with muddy reflections. London
was grim and dismal under that autumn rain, no flashing

of carriages about, or gleams of toilette, or signs of
the great world which does its work under the guise of
pleasure ; only a theatre now and then in the glare of
gas with idle people hanging about, keeping themselves
dry under the porch ; and afterward the great vacant
rooms at the clubs with a vague figure scattered here
and there, belated "men," or waiters at their ease ;
the foot-passengers hurrying along under umbrellas,
the cabs all splashed with mud, weary wayfarers and
muddy streets. There was scarcely a word exchanged
between them as they went along.

Where are you living ? " said Fairfax at last.

"The house is shut up," said Paul, giving the name
of his hotel.

But my place is not. Will you come with me and
have your foot looked to ? I wish you would come,
Markham. There are heaps of things I want to say to
you, and to ask you "

Paul was in so fantastic and unreasonable a condition
of mind that these last words were all that was
necessary to alter his decision. He had thought he
would go — why not ? — and escape a little from all the
contradictions in his own mind by means of his friend's

company. But the thought of having to answer questions
made an end of that impulse of confidence. He
had himself taken to the hotel instead, where, he said
to himself with forlorn pride, at least there was nobody
to insist upon any account of his thoughts or doings,
where he should be unmolested by reason of being
alone.

The visit of Janet Spears had made a great impression
upon Lady Markham. She abstained as longs
she could from speaking of it to Alice, but what is
there which a woman can keep from her closest companion,
her daughter, who is as her own soul ? Up to
this moment Alice had known nothing whatever about
Janet Spears, not even of her existence. Perhaps
Lady Markham's discretion, and the painful sense that
she had interfered injudiciously in Paul's affairs, might
not have sufficed to keep her secret ; but Sir William's
illness had carried the day over everything, and not a
word had been said between the mother and daughter
on this subject. Even now Lady Markham made a
heroic effort. Full as was her mind of the visit, she
kept it to herself for two long days, thinking over

everything that had been said, and wondering if she
had done as she ought, or if she should have been more
kind to the girl whom (was it possible ?) Paul loved, or
more severe upon the creature who had enthralled him.
At one time she thought of Janet in one way, at
another in the other. The girl he loved (was it
possible ?), or the woman who had put forth evil arts
and got him in her power. It is hard for a woman to
be quite just to any one, male or female, who has
injured her son : and people say it is hardest to be just,
to a woman who has done so. [In this point I do not
feel qualified to judge; but men say so who know
women better, naturally, than they knows themselves.]
Lady Markham struggled very hard to be just: but it
was difficult ; and in a moment of pressure, when Alice
came upon her suddenly, and with a soft arm round her
and a soft cheek laid against hers, entreated to know
if there was any fresh trouble — how could she help
but tell her everything? Alice justified all vulgar
sentiment on the subject by being triumphantly unjust
must have been cheated into it," she cried.
Paul — Pomp I so fastidious as he is, how could he ever,
ever, have thought of a girl like that ? "

But Lady Markham, anxious to keep the balance
even, shook her head.

'' My dearest, you don't know much about men. I
can't tell why it is. They choose those whom you would
think they would fly from, and fly from those whom
you would think — I don't know, Alice, perhaps they
get tired of the kind of women like you and me, whom
they see every day."

'mamma!"

"I have thought so often, dear. We don't feel so,
but men — they get tired of one kind of woman. They
think they will try something different. It has always
been a mystery. And you must not think this was a —
was not a good girl. I saw nothing wrong about her.

Perhaps a little more no, I don't know what to say.

She was not saucy, or bold, or Perhaps it was

only that she was not a lady," Lady Markham said
with a sigh.

"But that Paul should care for any one who was nota
lady," Alice said, clasping her hands together with
mingled despair and impatience ; and then she cried
suddenly, " Poor Httle Dolly ! "

Dolly ! " said Lady Markham. Nothing could

exceed her surprise. The air of grieved doubt and
hesitation Which had been in her face while they discussed
Janet gave way to lively astonishment and
displeasure. " What do you mean by Dolly ? " she
said.

Then Alice faltered forth an ashamed confession —
that she thought — that she had supposed — that she did
not know anything about it — did not believe there was
anything in it — but only, Dolly

Nothing was to be made of this hesitating speech.

Dolly," said Lady Mark ham, drawing herself up, '' is
a dear little girl. I am very fond of her. In her
proper place she is charming ; but my dear Alice, Dolly
is scarcely more suitable for Paul, in his position.
Ah ! "

Lady Markham stopped short and hid her face in her
hands.

During the time that these conversations — the visit
of Janet and all its attendant circumstances, and the
explanation of it thus given to Alice — were going on,
these ladies lived upon the post which brought frequent
communications from the people in London who were
carrying on such inquiries as could be made about the

intruder into the family, he who had so suddenly and
decisively blighted all the prospects of Paul. Colonel
Fleetwood wrote, and Mr. Scrivener, and Paul himself,
though less frequently. The former was the only one
that was hopeful; he was perfectly ready to believe
that Gus was an impostor, and the whole thing " a got
up affair." Was it likely, he argued, that Sir William,
the most steady-going old fellow, could be guilty of
such a tremendous mistake ? Had it only been a
wickedness ! but it was such a folly, such an error in
judgment. A statesman, a man in parliament, one of
the rulers of the country, how could any one suppose
him capable of a thing so foolish ? Mr. Scrivener was far
less confident. He knew what a lawyer's law was in
his own private affairs, and he had not much more confidence
in a statesman's wisdom. He had not sent anyone
to Barbadoes, but he was making careful inquiries
among all sorts of people who knew — West Indian
accents, ancient governors, and consuls. And he had
heard of Gus from more than one of these referees, and
found his story confirmed in all points as to his life in
Barbadoes. About his connexion with Sir William Markham,
these people did not know, but they gave him the

highest character, and confirmed his statement in many
important details. The lawyer did not conceal from Lady
Markham his complete conviction. Neither did Paul,
who had given up his own cause at once, though he
dragged on in London, dancing attendance at the
lawyer's office and hearing from day to day some fresh
aud, as he thought, unmeaning piece of additional proof
Of course it is all right," Paul wrote ; '' I never for a
moment doubted that the man was all right. He maybe
a cad, but he was speaking the truth. I stay hereto
humour them ; but I know very well that they will
discover nothing which will shake his credit ; and the
best thing I can do is to get myself as soon as I can
out of Sir Gus's way." This way of speaking of it was
to both the ladies like turning the sword round in the
wound. Where was it he meant to take himself, out of
the way ? They had neither of them any clue to Paul's
changed sentiments, and if he had vowed to go away
while all was well with him, when he had fortune and
splendour within reach, with those socialist emigrants
whose very name was enough to alarm them, what
would he do now when this horrible downfall and disappointment
had loosed the bonds between him and his

native country ? A wild desire to call for help, even
upon the least desirable of auxiliaries, upon Janet
Spears herself, came to Lady Markham's mind. If the
girl could keep him at home, she felt herself able to
receive even Janet to her heart.

While their mother's mind was thus occupied, the
two little girls had languidly resumed their lessons. It
is no reproach to the children to say that it was not
very long before the impression made by their father's
death would have died out naturally, in an occasional
tender recollection, or sudden burst of crying when
something recalled him to their memory. It was not
grief that made them languid, but the sense of something
going on, a living agitation, and the shadow of a
still greater disturbance to come. It was whispered
vaguely between them that no doubt they would have
to leave Markham, a thing which they sometimes felt
like a deathblow and sometimes like a deliverance
When Bell and Marie thought of leaving; their woods,
their gardens, their " own house," in which they had
been born, the desolation of the thought overwhelmed
them; but when, on the other hand, they thought of
going away, perhaps to London, perhaps "abroad," a

thrill of guilty rapture in through their bosoms. They
had never come to such a pitch of wickedness as to say
this to each other, but already in the rapid communion
of the eyes each had guessed that the other thought
there might be something to be said for such a possibility
; and the idea made them restless, unable to settle
to their work, and very trying to Mademoiselle, who,
poor lady, had to put up with this reverberation of the
troubles of the house without really having any share in
them, or taking any very lively interest in these family
concerns. Sometimes she had a headache, caused, as
she said, by nothing but the continued disturbance of
her nerves through their endless rustling and changes.
And when this headache got very bad and Mademoiselle
betook herself to bed, it cannot be said that her pupils
were sorry. They put their books away (having been
brought up in the strictest habits of tidiness), and
hastened out to their favourite haunts. The air and the
movement stilled their nerves, which were as much at
fault as those of Mademoiselle. They were seated on,
or rather in, a tree near the fishpond, the favourite
centre of all their games when the next great event
occurred to them. Bell had brought out a book with

her, which she held embraced in her arms, but had not
opened. She was seated well up in the tree, dangling
her feet close to Marie's head, who was seated on a
lower branch. Marie had no book — her tastes were not
literary ; and she was very near the edge of that great
discovery which both had made, but neither avowed,
that under some circumstances it might be "nice"
to go away.

Were you ever in a great big, big place — in a
city, Bell ? "

'* You little silly, of course I have been in Farboro'.
I have been with mamma a hundred times, and so
have you."

Farboro' is not what I mean. Farboro' is only a
town. There are not so very many people in it, and
the cathedral is the chief place. It is not noisy or
wicked at all. I mean a great horrid place where there
are crowds everywhere, and policemen, and where
nobody goes to church. That is what they call a city
in books. London is a city," said Marie.

"I have never been in London, you know. I wonder
if we shall ever see it," said Bell. ''I wonder if
mamma will ever take us there. I wonder if you and I

will be quite different from Alice when we grow up.
Slice has been presented. I wonder if it makes a
difference when poor girls are like us — without any
father," she added, with a little choke of tears.

"Do you think we shall be poor?" said Marie.
There is not much difference now. We have all the
same servants, and as much to eat, and Mademoiselle
just the same."

It will not make any difference in what we have to
eat," said Bell, approaching the dangerous subject.
But — perhaps we may not be able to stay at Markham.
Oh, Marie ! what would you think if mamma were to
give up Markham altogether and go away ? "

Marie looked up with large eyes, stretching her neck,
as her sister was at an elevation almost perpendicular.
She said, in a tone of awe, '' Oh, I don't know ! What
would you think, Bell ? "

Neither of the children liked to commit themselves.
At length Bell, who felt that her superior age required
of her that she should lead the way, assumed the
privilege of her years. "I don't know either," she said,
reflectively. " If it was in summer, when everything is
bright, I should not like it at all ; but if, perhaps," she

VOL. III. H

added, slower and slower, "it was in the rainy weather
when you can't go out, when the grass is so wet you
sink in it, when there is nothing but sleet and slush,
and the trees drop cold drops upon you even when it's
not raining, and you get your frock all wet even in the
avenue "

Marie's eyes opened bigger and bigger after every
step of this hypothesis. She followed them with a
movement of her lips and a gasp of excitement at
the end.

'then—" said Bell, "perhaps— I think— it might
be rather nice, Marie."

Oh, Bell ! that is what I sometimes thought — but
I never liked to say it."

"Nor me," said Bell, more courageous, indifferent
to grammar — and going on with hardihood after she had
made the first plunge. "There would be Madame
Tussaud's, and the Crystal Palace, and the British
Museum, and Westminster Abbey, and all the bazaars.
However bad the weather was, there would always be
something. I dare say mamma would take us to the
theatre."

But not just now," said Marie. " It would not be

nice to go just now. It would look as if we had
forgotten "

Did I say novo ? At present it is only autumn, and
everybody is in the country. But when the days get
short and dark, and you have to light the candles
directly — What is it'* cried Bell, for Marie had
shaken herself off her branch, and, with a cry of dismay,
stood looking apparently at something which was coming.
Is it Mademoiselle ? " said the little girl under her
breath.

Mademoiselle had a particular objection to that nest
in the tree. Bell's seat was one which was usually
occupied by a boy, not one of the girls' places, as Koland,
and Harry contemptuously called the lower branches.
It required some ingenuity to clamber into it, and more
to get down again — and not only ingenuity, but an
absence of petticoats would have been desirable. Bell
felt herself catching here and there as she tried to get
down hastily. Then came the sound of a long rent,
which sent her brain all whirling. Her new black
frock ! and what would nurse say ? The idea of nurse
and Mademoiselle both waiting, full of fury, for her
descent, vas enough to obscure the perceptions of any

H 2

child. Her foot slipped from a mossy and treacherous
twig ; she caught wildly at something, she did not know
what, and with a sudden whirr and whirl and blackness
lost herself altogether for a moment. When she became
aware of what was going on again, she found herself
seated at the foot of the tree, staring across the fishpond,
with a lump on her forehead and a singing in her
ears. Marie was crying, bending over her, and saying,
'' Oh ! what can we do — what shall I do ? Do you
think she will die, Mr. Gus ? "

Oh, what a little goose you are ! " murmured Bell,
gradually coming to herself. "What should I die for?
I have only got a knock — ©n my head." She felt the
lump on her forehead wonderingly as she spoke, for it
hurt her, and nature directed her hand to the spot. " I
have got a dreadful knock on my head," she added, not
without satisfaction. Then Bell leaned back on something,
she did not know what, and saw a hand come
round from behind with a wet handkerchief to lay upon
her forehead. The hand was a brown hand with a big
ring on it, at which Bell vaguely wondered where she
had seen it before. Then, all of a sudden, she jumped
iip^ upon her feet, though she felt very queer and giddy.

It is that little gentleman ! You have been talking to
him, Marie ! "

"And won't you talk to me, too?" said Gus, following
her with his wet handkerchief. *' Well, never mind,
put on this. The water is out of your own fish-pond ;
it cannot do you any harm."

Bell was not able to resist, and he made her sit down
again and have her forehead bathed. By degrees as she
became aware of everything around her, Bell' perceived
that the little gentleman was very kind. His thin,
brown hand touched her so gently, and he was not
angry, though she had been angry. By and by she
said, ^' I am better. Please, oh, please go away, Mr.
Gus. I don't want to be disagreeable, but how can
/ have anything to say to you, when you have been
so "

"Yes, my dear," said Mr. Gus. "What have I
been ? " For Bell paused, not knowing what to say.

The little girl did not continue. She contented
herself with throwing down Mr. Gus's wet handkerchief
from her forehead, which was not so bad now. " You
are our enemy," she said.

I am nobody's enemy. I am your brother. I want

to do everything I can for you, if you will let me.
Don't you remember what friends we made, and how
fond we were of each other before you knew who I was ;
and why should you hate me now you know I am your
brother ? " said Gus.

It was wonderful to see him standing there, so like
their father : and it was very hard for two little girls to
keep up an argument with a grown-up gentleman.
But Bell, who had a great spirit, was not disposed to
throw down her arms. She said, " Paul is my brother,
and you are his enemy," feeling at last that she was on
steady ground.

I am no more Paul's, enemy than I am yours. Now
listen, little girls. If some one were to leave you something,
Bell — if it was to be put in the will that this was
for Sir William Markham's second daughter — how
should you feel if it were taken from you and given to
Marie ? "

I would not put up with it all," said Bell promptly.
Then perceiving how she had committed herself, "It is
not the same. It was Paul's, and you want to take it
from Paul."

But I am the heir, and not Paul," said the little

gentleman. " I am the eldest. You are very fond of
your little sister, but you would not give up what was
yours to Marie."

This time Bell was more wise. 'you don't know
anything about it. What would it matter? for when
anything is given to me, I always give half to Marie,"
she said, with sparkling eyes.

The little gentleman owned himself discomfited.
"There you have the better of me," he said. 'but I
should like to give a great part to Paul. I would give
him everything in reason. And I have come now to see
you, to ask you to do me a very great favour."

They looked at him with eyes that grew bigger and
bigger, and as Bell was very pale, with a lump on her
forehead, her aspect with her heroic gaze was tragicomical,
to say the least. They were both greatly
melted and softened by the idea of having a favour asked
of them, and Marie, who was entirely gained over, did
nothing but nudge and pull her sister's dress by way
of recommending her to be merciful. Bell leant back
upon the tree like a little image of Justice, with the
bandage momentarily pushed off, but very much needed.
It lay at her feet in the shape of Mr. Gus's white

handkerchief; but all the severity, yet candour, of an
entire Bench was in her eyes.

I want you to make my peace with your mother.
I want you to persuade her to stay at Markham ; to let
me stay here to ; to let me live among you like your
brother, which I am. If you all run away as soon as I
come near the place, what good will it do me ? " said
Gus. "I want you all. When the boys come home,
we should have all kinds of fun, and as for you, I should
not let anyone bother you. Fancy, I have nobody
belonging to me but you. You are my family. I am
more like an old uncle than your brother, but I should
be very fond of you all the same. If your mother would
only listen to me, it would be very nice for us all. I am
sure you can be generous, Bell. You are old enough to
understand. And I think Alice would be on my side if
she would hear what I have got to say."

"Alice would never be on your side," said Bell with
decision. " Paul is Alice's brother — her particular
brother — and how could she bear to see him put out ?
Don't you know we are all in pairs at Markham ? Harry
is my brother, and Roland is Marie's."

Ye-es," said Marie tired of being left out, 'but he

is not always nice. . He sends me away because I am a
girl, as if it was my fault ! "

"Well then," said Mr. Gus, "if Alice will not stand
my friend, I must trust it all to you. The thing you
must do is to go to your mamma, and tell her your old
brother is outside, very sorry to be the cause of any
trouble, but that he can't help being your brother,
and a great deal older than Paul. How could I help
that ? I did not choose who my father was to be ; and
tell her if she would only speak to me, I will explain it
all to her. And there is nothing she can ask me to do
that I will not do for Paul. And tell her — but I need
not tell you, Bell, for I can see in your eyes that you
know quite well what 'to say."

The conviction that she would indeed be a valuable
and eloquent advocate got into Bell's mind as he went
on. Yes, she felt she could say all that to mamma and
better than Mr. Gus had said it. She would use such
arguments that Lady Markham would be sure to yield.
Bell was aware that she was clever, and all her own
opposition melted away in the delightful mental excitement
of this immense undertaking. She forgot the
lump on her forehead, the buzzing in her ears, and even

more, she forgot the family opposition to the interloper
who was taking away Paul's birthright. '' Oh yes, I
know very well what to say," she cried with a change of
sentiment which was as complete as it was rapid, and in
her excitement she set off at once for the house, framing
little speeches as she went, in which the case of Gus
should be put forth with all the devices of forensic
talent. Oh what a pity I am not a boy ! was the
thought which flew through her mind as on the sudden
gale of inspiration which swept through her. For the
moment, perhaps, this fact, which would for ever prevent
her from being a special pleader by profession, was a
decided advantage to Bell. Little Marie did not like to
be left behind. She looked wistfully after her sister,
then she said, ''I will tell mamma too," and rushed
after Bell. Finally, Mr. Gus himself completed the
procession walking behind them. He had chosen no
unfit ambassadors of peace, though the elder emissary
looked very much as if she had been in the wars. And
the little man walked after them with a little tremor
varying the calm of self-satisfaction which usually
reigned in his bosom. He knew he was doing what was
by far the best and most Christian thing to do, and he

felt that he had managed it very cleverly in putting his
cause into such hands. But notwithstanding these
consolatory reflections, and notwithstanding the natural
calm of his bosom, it is certain that Mr. Gus felt in that
bosom an unaccustomed quiver of timidity which might
almost have been called fear.

GCJS came into the hall with Bell and Marie, and
waited there while they proceeded to plead his cause
within. He walked about the hall softly, and looked at
the pictures, the old map of the county, and other
curiosities that were there. These things beguiled his
anxiety about his reception, and filled him with an
altogether novel interest. A thing which is quite
indifferent to us while it belongs to our neighbour,
gains immediate attraction when it becomes our own.
He looked at everything with interest, even the cases of
stuffed birds that decorated one corner. Then he came
and seated himself in the great bamboo chair in which
he had sat down the first time he came to Markham.
It was not very long ago, not yet two months, but what
a difference there was ! Then, indeed, he had been

anxious about his reception, and he was anxious about
his reception now. But when he came first, he had been
doubtful of his position altogether, not sure what his
rights were, or what claim he could make — and now his
anxieties were merely sentimental, and his rights all
established. He sat where he had sat then, and saw
everything standing just as he had seen it, the trees the
same, except in colour, nothing altered except himself.
Now it was all his, this noble domain. He had not
known what welcome he might receive, whether his
father would acknowledge him, or what would happen,
and now his father's possessions were his, and no one
could infringe his rights. How strange it was ! He sat
sunk in the great bamboo chair, and listened to the
faint sound of voices which he heard through the open
door, the two little girls pleading his cause. He was
very desirous that they should be successful, for if he
was not successful, Markham would be a dull house —
but still, successful or not, nothing any longer could
affect him vitally. A poor stranger, a wanderer from
the tropics, unused to England and English ways, with
not much money, and a very doubtful prospect before
him, he had been when he first came here. How could

he help smiling at the change ? He had no desire to do
any one harm. All the evil that he had done was
involuntary, but it could not be expected that he would
give up his rights. He felt very much at his ease as he
seated himself in that chair, notwithstanding the touch
of anxiety in his mind. The-prospect which was before
him was enough to satisfy an ambitious man, but Gus
was not ambitious. Indeed, the advantages he had
gained were contracted in his eyes by his own inability
fully to understand their extent. They were greater
than he was aware, greater than his imagination could
grasp. But, at least, they included everything that his
imagination was able to grasp, and mortal man cannot
desire more.

Bell had gone in very quietly, inspired by her mission,
without pausing to think, and Marie had followed, as
Marie always did. They went straight into the room
where they were sure, they thought, of seeing their
mother. It was in the recess, the west chamber, at the
and of the drawing room, that they found her. But
the circumstances did not seem very favourable to their
plea. Lady Markham and Alice were reading a letter
together, and Alice, it was very apparent, was crying

over her mother's shoulder, while Lady Markham was
very pale, and her eyes red as if she had shed tears.
It is all over then," she was saying as the children
came in, folding the letter up to put it away. And
Alice cried, and made no reply. This checked the
straightforward fervour of Bell, who had walked straight
into the room and halfway up its length before she
discovered the state of affairs. "Mamma," she had

begun, "I have come from " Then Bell paused,

and cried, " Oh, mamma, dear, what is the matter ? "
with sudden alarm, stopping short in mid-career.

Nothing very much," said Lady Markham, " nothing
that we did not know before. What is it. Bell ? You
may tell me all the same. We must face it, you know.
We must not allow ourselves to be overcome by it," she
said with a little quiver of her lip, and a smile which
made the little girls inclined to cry too.

Oh mamma ! I just came from — him," Bell stopped
short aojain, feeling as if involved in a sort of treason,
and her pale little countenance flushed. Only then
Lady Markham perceived the state in which the child
was.

What have you been doing to yourself, Bell ? You

have hurt yourself. You have got a blow on the forehead.
What was it ? Let me look at you. You have
been up in one of those trees."

Oh mamma," cried Bell, finding in this the very
opportunity she wanted, " I fell, and I think I might
have killed myself : but all at once, I don't know where
he came from, I never saw him coming, there was the —
little gentleman ! He picked me up, and he spoiled all
his handkerchief bathing my forehead. He was very
kind, he always was very kind — to us children," said
Bell.

Oh Bell ! how can you speak of that odious little
man? how can you bother mamma about him? We
have heard a great deal too much about him already,"
cried Alice with an indignation that dried her tears.

It is not his fault," said Lady Markham, " we must
be just. What could we do but what he has done ? If
we had known of it all along, we should never have '^
thought of blaming him — and it is not his fault that it
all burst upon us in a moment. It was not his fault,"
she said, shaking her head, " but you must not think I
blame your dear papa. He meant it for the best. I
can see how it all happened as distinctly At first

he thought it would wound me to hear that he had
been married before. And then — he forgot it altogether.
You must remember how young he was, and what is a
baby to a man ? He forgot about it. I can see it all
so plainly. The only thing is my poor Paul ! " And
here, after her defence of his father, the mother
broke doivn too.

Mamma," said Bell, " oh, don't cry, please don't cry !
That is exactly what he says. He says he will do anything
you like to tell him. He says he never wanted
to do any harm. He is as sorry — as sorry ! But how
could he help being born, and being old — so much older
than Paul ? He says he is very fond of us all. He
does not mind what he does if you will only let him
come home and be the eldest brother. Mamma," said
Bell, solemnly, struck with a new idea, '' he must have
saved my life, I think. I might have broken my neck,
and there was nobody but Marie to run and get
assistance. It was a very good thing for me that he
was there. If he had not been there, you would have
had — only five children instead of six," Bell said, with
a gulp, swallowing the lump in her throat. She thought
she saw herself being carried along all white and still,

VOL. III. I

and the thought overcame her with a sense of the pathos
of the possible situation. She seemed to hear all the
people saying, " Such a promising child and cut off
in a moment ; " and '' Poor Lady Markham ! just after
her other great grief ; " so that Bell could scarcely help
sobbing over herself, though she had not been killed.

'' Oh Bell ! it was not so bad as that ! how could you
be killed coming down head over heels from the old
tree ? " cried Marie, almost with indignation.

Lady Markham had satisfied herself in the meantime
that the lump on the forehead was more ugly than
serious.

Let us be very glad you have not suffered more,"
she said. "But, Bell, the right thing would be not to
climb up there again."

'' Mamma, the right thing would be, if you care
about me, at least, to let poor Mr. Gus come in, and
thank him for saving my life. Oh, let him come in,
mamma ! How could he help being older than Paul ?
I dare say he would rather have been younger if he
could ; and I am sure by what he says he would give Paul
anything — anything ! to make it up to him, and to
make friends with you. He says how miserable he

would be if you left him here all alone. He could not
bear to be down here thinking he had turned us out.
Oh, if you had only seen him ! he looked as if he could
cry — Ask Marie. And he wanted to know if he might
speak to Alice, if Alice would speak for him. But I
said I didn't think it, because Paul was Alice's particular
brother, and she could not bear anything that was hard
upon him ; and then he said, " cried Bell, with unconscious
embellishment, " ' You are my two little sisters, oh, go
and plead for me ! Say I will do anything — anything —
whatever she pleases.' Oh mamma ! who could say more
than that ? He has nobody belonging to him, unless we
will let him belong to us. He is a poor little gentleman,
not young, nor nice-looking, nor clever, nor anything.
And, mamma, he is a little — or more than a
little, a great deal — very like poor papa. Oh ! " cried
Bell, breaking off with a suppressed shriek, as a hand
suddenly was laid upon her shoulder.

Nobody had observed him coming in. A light little
man, with a soft step, and soft unobtrusive shoes that
never had creaked in the course of their existence, upon
a soft Turkey carpet, makes very little sound as he
moves. He had got tired waiting outside, and the doors

I 2

were open, and Mr. Gus had never been shy. He had
walked straight in, guided by their voices ; and the very
fact that he had thus made his way within those
curtains into this sanctuary seemed to give him at once
a footing in the place. He put his hand upon Bell's
shoulder, and, though he was not much taller than she
was, made a very respectful bow to Lady Markham over
her head.

I thought I might take the liberty to come in and
speak for myself. Lady Markham," he said. There was
a flutter of his eyelids, giving that sidelong glance
round him, which was the only thing that betrayed
Gus's consciousness that the place to which " he had taken
the liberty " of coming in was his own. " My little
sisters " (he put his other hand upon the shoulder of
Marie, who was much consoled at thus being brought
back out of the cold into which Bell's superior gifts invariably
sentenced her), " My little sisters can speak
better for me than I can do ; and won't you take me in
for the sake of the little things who have always been
my friends ? It is not my fault that this all came upon
you as a surprise. Don't you think it would be better
for everybody — for the children, and for my poor father's

memory, and all if you will just put up with having
me in the house ? "

Lady Markham grew very pale. She made a great
effort, standing up to do it.

Sir Augustus," she said, and nobody knew what it
cost her to give him this title ; all the blood ebbed away
from her face : " Sir Augustus, the house is your own,
it appears. What I can put up with has nothing to do
with it."

Yes," he said, tranquilly, bowing in acknowledgment,
it is my own ; but it has been yours for a great many
years. Why can't we be friends ? I can't help being
their brother, you know, whatever happens."

Alice had been sitting with her hand over her eyes.
She had a special enmity towards this interloper; but
now she took courage to look at him. They all looked
at him, distinct among the little group of female faces.
He was dans son droit, and it is impossible to tell how
much the certainty that all belonged to him, that he was
no mere claimant, but the proud possessor of the place,
changed the aspect of the little gentleman, even to
those who had most reason to be wounded by it. It
gave him a dignity he had never possessed before, and a

magnanimity too. When lie saw Alice looking at him,
he left the little girls and came towards her, holding out
his hands. He was a different man in this interior from
what he was outside.

I should be very fond of you if you would let me'*
he said. " Alice, though you are Paul's particular sister,
you can't help being my sister too ; and there is someone
else who is a friend of mine, who has been very
kind to me," the little man said significantly, sinking
his voice.

What did he mean ? Though she did not know what
he meant, Alice felt a flame of colour flush over her
cheeks in spite of herself.

We are not monsters to disregard such an appeal,"
said Lady Markham. " Whatever may happen, and
however we may feel, we must all acknowledge that
you mean to be very kind. You will not ask us to
say more just now. If you will send for your things,
I will give orders to have your rooms prepared
at once."

Mamma ! " they all cried, in a chorus of wonder.
Alice with something like indignation, Bell and Marie
with an excitement which was half pleasure : for this

was novelty, at least, if nothing else, which always
commends itself to the mind of youth.

If it is his right, he shall have it," said Lady
Markham, with a quiver in her voice. " Mr. Scrivener
tells me we must resist no longer — and he is your
brother, as he says, and we have no right to reject his
kindness. Do you know, children," she cried, suddenly
clasping her hands together with an impatient movement,
*' while we are talking so much at our ease, it is not our
own house we are in, but this gentleman's house ? He
can turn us out of it whenever he pleases, while we are
arguing whether we will let him come into it ! Sir,"
she said, rising up once more (but she had done it once ;
she could not again give him the title, which ought to
have been Paul's) — '' Sir, I acknowledge that you are
kind, generous — far more than we have any right to
expect — but you will understand that such a position is
not easy — that it is very strange to me — and very new,
and "

*' Certainly, ma'am," said Gus. Her politeness (as he
called it to himself) put him on his mettle. " All you
say is very true and just. If I were a little monster,
as Alice thinks, there are a great many things I could

do to make myself disagreeable ; and if you were not a
sensible woman, as I always felt you to be, we might
make a very pretty mess between us. But as we are
not fiends, but good Christians (I hope), suppose you
let the little ones come down with me to the village to
see after my things ? It's a nice afternoon, though a
little dull. You ladies ought to go out too and take
the air. My little dears," he said, " we'll have those
big cases up; there are a lot of things in them I
brought from Barbadoes expressly for you. And those
sweetmeats — I told you of them the first time I came
into this house."

"You said they were for me," said Marie, with a
tone of reproach ; " but that cannot have been true, for
you did not know of me."

Gus had put one hand in Bell's arm and the other on
Marie's shoulder. He looked at his taro little companions
with the sincerest pleasure in his little brown
face.

*' I did not know you were Marie, nor that this was
Bell : but I knew that you were you," said the little
gentleman, with a smile. "And," he added, looking
round upon them all, "I knew we must befriends

sooner or later. Let's go and see after the
cases now."

This was how it was all arranged, to the consternation
and amazement of all the world ; and Lady Markham
was not less astonished than all the rest. She went to
the Hall window when they were gone, and looked out
after them, scarcely believing her senses. Sir Augustus
Markham (as he must now be allowed to be) had put
his arm into Bell's, who was nearly as tall as he was,
and who had forgotten all about the bump on her
forehead and the tear in her frock; while Marie held
his other hand, and skipped along by his side, now
in front, now behind, looking up into his face and
chattering to him. There was in Gus's gait, in his trim
little figure, and his personality in general, a something
which was much more like Sir William than any of his
other children. It had always been a little private
source of gratification to Lady Markham, notwithstanding
her sincere affection for her husband, that Paul was
like the Fleetwood, who were much finer men. But
this resemblance, which she had not very much desired
for her own children, had settled in the unknown
offspring of his youth. It added now another pang to

lier heartache, not only to see how like he was, but to
see how entirely the children had adopted their new,
yet old, brother. She withdrew from the window in a
bewilderment of pain and excitement. What would
Paul say to the step she had taken ? It was right,
she had felt. She had done what was the hardest to do,
because it seemed evident that it was the best; but
what would Paul say? And now that all hope and
resistance was over, and nothing to be done but to
submit and make the best of it, what was to become of
her boy? Lady Markham had not the solace of
knowing of the change that had taken place in Paul's
mind. She expected nothing else than that her next
meeting with Paul would be to take leave of him, to see
him go away with his chosen associates ; most likely the
husband of Janet Spears, or about to become so. Could
Janet Spears even now secure her son to her ? bring him
back ? fix him in England ? — at least within reach of
her care and help? And should she — could she — do
anything to persuade the girl to exercise her influence ?
That discussion, which had been broken by the sudden
appearance of Bell, and this strange episode altogether,
returned to her mind as she went sadly up stairs to

consult with Mrs. Fry about the rooms to be made ready
for Sir Augustus. Poor Lady Markham ! she would
have to speak of him by this name, and to acknowledge
to the servants the downfall of her own son, the descent
of her owe. family to a lower place — Sir William's second
family. It was hard — very hard — upon a woman who had
been strong in a pride which had nothing bitter in it, so
long as it had been unassailed, and all had gone well, but
which gave her pangs now that were sufficiently difficult
to bear. And then there was the dilemma in her heart
still more difficult, still more painful. She had done
what she thought was the best, at much cost to herself,
in this matter ; but ah, the other matter, which was still
nearer her heart, how was she, torn as she was by diverse
emotions, to know in Paul's case what was the best ?

It would be needless to attempt to describe the excitement
raised in the household by the announcement
that "Sir Augustus" was 'coming home," and that his
rooms were to be got ready with all speed.

My lady has give up the very best of everything,"
Mrs. Fry said, solemnly; 'rand as considerate, thinking
which was to be the warmest, seeing as he's come from
India, where it is that warm. It Avould not become us

as are only servants, to be more particular than my
lady, or else I don't know that I could make it convenient
to stay with a gentleman as has the blood of
niggers in his veins."

I snowed it ! " Mr. Brown said, slapping his thigh ;
he was usually more guarded in his language, but excitement
carries the day over grammar even with persons
of more elevated breeding. "The last time as ever I
helped him on with his coat there was something as
told me it was him that was the man, and not Paul.
Well ! I don't say as I don't regret it in some ways,
but pride must have a fall, as the Bible says."

I don't see as it lays in your spare to quote the
Bible on any such subject," said Mrs. Fry with indignation.
" If it's Mr. Paul, I just wish he had a little more
pride. His dear mother would be easier in her mind
this day if he was one that held more by his own class.
And if you're pleased, you that have eat their bread this
fifteen years, to have a bit of a little upstart that is
only half an Englishman, instead of your young master
that you've seen grown up from a boy — and as handsome
a boy as one could wish to see — I don't think much of
your Christianity, and quoting out of the Bible. It's

easier a deal to do that than to perform what's put
down there."

I hope I knows my duty, ma'am," said Mr. Brown,
resuming the dignity which excitement had momentarily
shaken, " without instruction from you or any one."

I hope you do, Mr. Brown," said Mrs. Fry. And
this little passage of arms restored the equilibrium of
these two important members of the household. But
when it became known in the village and at the station,
where the great cases which had been lying at the latter
place were ordered by Sir Augustus to be carried to the
house, and his portmanteau brought from the Markham
Arms, and when slowly, through a hundred rills of conflicting
information, the news got spread about the
country till it flooded, like a rushing torrent, all the
great houses and all the outlying villages — drove the
Trevorss and the Westlands half out of their senses, and
communicated a sudden vertigo to the entire neighbourhood
— words fail us to describe the commotion.
Everybody had known there was something wrong, but
who could have imagined anything so sweeping and
complete. " You see now, mamma, how right I was tolet
Paul alone," Ada Westland said with her frank

cynicism. '* We must see that your papa calls upon Sir
Augustus' that far-seeing mother replied. As for old
Admiral Trevor, who was getting more and more into
his dotage every day, he ordered his carriage at once to
go out and '' puts stop to it." '' Will Markham ought
to be ashamed of himself," the old sailor said. The
same impulse moved the inhabitants of the rectory,
both father and daughter. Mr. Stainforth did nothing
but go about his garden all day wringing his hands and
crying, " Dear ! dear ! " and trying to recollect something
about it, some way of proving an alibi or
getting evidence to show that it was impossible. He,
too, felt that it was his duty to put a stop to it. And
as for Dolly, what could she do but cry her pretty eyes
out, and wish, oh so vainly, that she had a hundred
thousand pounds that she might give it all to Paul !

Lady Markham, when she thus received Sir Augustus,
did so with no intention of herself remaining in
the house which had been her home for so long. In
any case, when the lawyer had pronounced that there
was no longer any room for resistance, she would have
yielded ; she would not have prolonged a vain struggle,
or given the new owner any trouble in gaining possession
of his house. When she lay down that night
for the first time under the same roof with the interloper,
he who had, she said to herself, ruined her son's
prospects, and taken his inheritance from him, she had
not that satisfaction in her mind of having done her
duty which is supposed to be the unfailing recompense
of a good action. She had done her duty, she hoped.
She did not think that she was justified in refusing

Sir Gus's overtures, or in turning him into an enemy ;
but it was with a sore heart and mind, much exercised
with doubt, that she thought of what she had done.
It was right in one way, but was it right in another ?
What would Paul think of her apparent alliance and
friendship with the man who certainly-had been his
supplanter, and so far as any one could see had spoiled
his life ? Paul was Lady Markham's dearest son, but
he was the darkest place in her landscape, the subject
which she dwelt upon most, yet had least comfort in
contemplating. Notwithstanding the love and anxiety
which he called forth in her, all the questions connected
with him were so painful that, if she could, she would
have avoided them altogether. What was he going todo?
Was he on the eve of the voyage which might
separate him from her for ever ? Was he on the eve
of the marriage that would separate them still more ?
She longed and pined every day for letters from him,
and yet when the post brought none, she was almost
relieved. At least he was not going yet, at least he
was not married yet. She wrote to him almost everyday,
and lavished upon him a thousand tenderness,
and yet it was no pleasure to her to think of Paul.

His very name brought an additional line to her
forehead and quiver to her lip.

Next morning she was more undecided than ever.
What was she to do ? Again the post had come in, and
Paul had not added a word to the information she had
received. He had not said whether he was comines, or
what he was going to do. It occurred to her as she was
dressing that the presence of his stepmother in the
house might keep him away — that indeed it was almost
certain to keep him away, and that this afforded an
urgent reason for speedy removal. The idea gave hera
sensation of hurry and nervous haste. There was a
dower-house on the estate near the town of Farborousfh
to which perhaps it would be well for her to retire.
But when she thought of all that would be involved in
the removal. Lady Markham's courage failed her. Why
did not this man keep away ? A few months she might
at least have had to detach herself, to accustom herself
to the change. It seemed hard, very hard, to face
everything at once. Had she really been right after all
in yielding ? Ought she not to have stood out and made
her bargain for time enough to prepare her removal tranquilly
? In the days when a glow of satisfaction followed
VOL. III. K

every good action, there must have been more absolute
certainty upon the subject, what was good and what was
evil, than exists now. The kindness, the self-sacrifice
of her act had made it appear the best, the only thing
to do ; but now came the cold shadow of doubt.
Had not she compromised her dignity by doing it?
Had not she done something that would offend
and alienate Paul ? The night not only had not
brought counsel, but it had made all her difficulties
worse.

When Lady Markham went downstairs, however, the
first sight which met her eyes was one of at least a very
conciliatory character. In the hall stood one of Gus's
larger packing-cases, those cases which had been lying
at the station for so long, opened at last, and giving
forth its riches. The floor was covered with West Indian
sweetmeats, pots of guava jelly, and ginger, and many
other tropical dainties; while the two little girls, in
high excitement, were taking out the stores which
remained, the scented neck-laces and bark-lace, and
all the curious manufactures of the island ; they were
speechless with delight and enthusiasm, yet bursting
out now and then into torrents of questions, asking

about everything. Gus sat complacently in the midst
of all the rubbish in the big bamboo-chair, stretching
out his little legs and rubbing his hands. " I told you
I brought them for you," he was saying. Bell and Marie
could not believe their eyes as they saw the heaps that
accumulated round them. " I thought you would like
to give presents to your little friends ; there is plenty
for everybody."

** But oh ! Mr. Gus," cried Marie, dancing about him,
how could you know just what we wanted ? how could
you tell we should have friends ? "

It was pretty to see him sitting among the litter, his
brown countenance beaming.

I knew, of course, you must be nice children," he
said ; " I knew what you would want. But you must
not call me Mr. Gus any longer. Call me Gus without
the mister."

The two little girls looked at each other and laughed.

But you are so old," they said.

It's a pity, isn't it ? " said the little gentleman.

They were as much at their ease together as if they
had known him all their lives. What mother could
resist such a scene ? She paused on the stairs and

K 2

looked over the banisters and watched them. If it had
not been for the tragedy involved, for her husband's
death and her son's disinheritance, what more pleasant
than this domestic scene ! The children had never been
so much at their ease with their father, nor would it have
occurred to them to use half so much freedom with
Paul as they did with the stranger Gus. Lady Markham's
heart thrilled with pleasure and pain, and when
at last she went downstairs, there was a tone of cordiality
in spite of herself in her morning greeting.

I fear I am a little late. I have kept you waiting,"
she said.

Oh mamma ! he has had his breakfast with us,"
cried the little girls.

You must not mind me. I am from the tropics. I
always rise with the dawn," said the little man. " But
I am quite happy so long as I have the children."

He followed her into the breakfast-room, Bell linking
herself on to his arm and Marie holding bis hand.
They brought in some of the sweetmeats with them,
and the little girls began with great importance to open
them, each making her offering to mamma. It was
the first appearance of anj^tJiing like cheerfulness since

grief had entered . the house. While this little bustle
was going on, Alice came in after her mother very
quietly, hoping to avoid all necessity of speaking to
the intruder. The feeling that was in her mind was
that she could not endure to see him here, and that if
her mother would not leave the place, she at least must.
When Gus saw her, however, her hope of escape was
over. He came up to her at once and took her hand,
and made a little speech.

You will not make friends with me as the children
do," he said ; " but you will find your old brother will
always stand your friend if you want one."

Alice drew her hand away and escaped to her usual
place with her cheeks blazing. Why did he offer to
stand her friend ? " what did he mean by his reference
last night to some one else ? She knew very well what
he meant — it was this that made it impertinent. He
had met her two or three times with Mr. Fairfax, and
no doubt had been so vulgar and disagreeable as to
suppose that Mr. Fairfax — not having the least idea
of course how they had been brought together, and
that Mr. Fairfax's presence at Markham was entirely
accidental ! Alice knew perfectly well what Gus meant.

He thought the young man was an undistinguished lover,
whom probably Lady Mark ham would not accept, but
whom Alice was ready enough to accept, and it was in
this light that he proffered his presumptuous and undesired
help. Alice could not trust herself to speak.
It seemed to her that besides the harm it had done
Paul, there was another wrong to herself in these injudicious,
unnecessary offers of assistance. She would
not look at the curiosities the little girls carried in their
frocks, folding up their skirts to make great pockets,
nor taste their sweetmeats, nor countenance their pleasure.
Instead of that, Alice wrapped herself up in
abstraction and sadness. To be able to hide some
sulkiness and a great deal of annoyance and bitter
constraint under the mask of grief is often a great ease
to the spirit. She had the satisfaction of checking all
the glee of Marie and Bell, and of making even Lady
Markham repent of the smile into which she had been
beguiled.

Thus, however, the day went on. When Lady Markham
again watched her children going down the avenue,
one on either side of the new master of the house, with
a softened look in her face, Alice turned away from her

mother with the keenest displeasure; she forsook her
altogether, going away from her to her own room, where
she shut herself up and began to make a review of all
her little possessions with the view of removing them,
somewhere, anywhere, she did not care where. And
very dismal visions crossed the inexperienced mind of
Alice. She did not know how this miserable change in
the family affairs affected her own position or her
mother's. She thought, perhaps, that they had lost
everything, as Paul had lost everything. And sooner
than live on the bounty of this stranger, Alice felt that
there was nothing she could not do. She thought of
going out as a governess, as girls do in novels. Why
not ? What was she better than the thousands of girls
who did so, and rather that a hundred times, rather that
or anything ! Then it occurred to her that perhaps she
might go with Paul. That, perhaps, would be a better
way. Even in the former days, out of the midst of
luxury and comfort, it had seemed to her that Paul's
dream of living a primitive life and cultivating his bit
of land, his just share of the universal possession of
man, had something fine, something noble in it. With
her brother she could go to the end of the world to sustain

and comfort him. What would she care what she did ?
Would she be less a lady if she cooked his dinner or
washed his clothes? Nay, not at all. What better
could any woman wish ? But then there was this girl
the man's daughter who had been at Markham with
Paul. Thus Alice was suddenly stopped again. Walls
of iron seemed to rise around her wherever she turned.
Was it possible, was it possible ? Paul, who was so
fastidious, so hard to please ! Thus when despairing of
the circumstances around herself she turned to the idea
of her brother, her heart grew sick with a new and
cruel barrier before her. An alien had come into her
home and spoiled it ; an alien was to share her brother's
life and ruin that. AH around her the world was breaking
in with an insupportable intrusion — people who had
nothing to do with her coming into the very sanctuary
of her life. Lady Markham was going to put up with
it, as it seemed, but Alice said to herself that she
could not, would not, put up with it. She could not
tell what she would do, or where she would flee
but to tolerate the man who had taken Paul's inheritance,
or the woman who had got Paul's heart,
was above her strength. Should she go out as a

governess ? this seemed the one outlet ; or — was there
any other ?

Now, how it was that Fairfax should have suddenly
leaped into her mind with as startling an effect as if he
had come through the window, or down from the sky in
bodily presence, I cannot pretend to tell. For a little
while he had been her chief companion — her helpmate, so
to speak — and, at the same time, her servant, watching
her looks to see what he could do for her — ready to fly,
on a moment's notice, to supplement her services in the
sick-room — making of himself, indeed, a sort of complement
of her and other self, doing the things she could
not do. He had been, not like Paul at home, for Paul
had never been so ready and helpful, but like nothing
else than a man Alice, another half of her, understanding
her before she spoke— doing what she wished
by intuition. This had not lasted very long, it is true,
but while it had lasted, it had been like nothing that
Alice had ever known. She had said to herself often
that she scarcely knew him. He had come into her life
by accident, and he had gone out of it just as suddenly,
and with an almost angry dismissal on her part.
Scarcely knew him ! and yet was there anybody that

she knew half so well ? Why Fairfax should have
suddenly become, as it were, visible to her in the midst
of her thoughts, she did not know. One moment she
could see nothing but those closing walls around her —
a barrier here, a barrier there; no way of escape.
When all at once, in the twinkling of an eye, there was
a glimmer in the darkness, an opening, and there he
stood, looking at her tenderly, deprecating, yet with a
gleam of humour in his eyes. " You won't have anything
to say to me," he seemed to be saying; 'but all
the same, if you should think better of it, I am here."

It is impossible to tell the effect this sudden apparition,
as confusing as if he had actually come in person,
had upon Alice. She was so angry, that she beat her
hands together in sudden rage— with whom — with
herself? for if the treacherous heart within her conjured
up the young man's image, was it Mr. Fairfax's
fault ? But it was against him that she threw out all
that unnecessary anger. How dared he come when she
wanted none of him ! To intrude yourself into a girl's
presence when she does not want you is bad enough,
but to leap thus into her imagination ! it was insupportable.
She struck her hands together with a kind

of fury — it was a way she had — her cheeks grew
crimson, her heart thumped quite unnecessarily against
her breast. And all the time he seemed to stand and
look at her not tragically, or with any heroic aspect
(which did not belong to him), but with that half
smiling, half upbraiding look, and always a little gleam
of fun in his eyes. " If you should think better of it, I
am always here." The words she put into his mouth
were quite characteristic of him. No high-flown professions
of faithfulness and devotion could have said more.
Lady Markham had seen clearly enough that Alice
was no longer in sympathy with her, and her heart bled
for the separation and for the shadow in her child's face,
even while she could not refuse to feel a certain
satisfaction otherwise in the step she had taken. It
is often easier to justify one's self to others than to
respond to the secret doubts that arise in one's own
bosom ; but when the gloomy looks of Alice proclaimed
the indictment that was being drawn up against her
mother in her mind. Lady Markham, strangely enough,
began to feel the balance turn, and a little self-assertion
came to her aid. But she was very glad of the opportunity
given her by a visit from the Rector to send for her

daughter, who had not come near her all the morning.
The Rector was not a very frequent visitor at the Chase,
nor indeed anywhere. He was old, and he was growing
feeble, and he did not care to move about. It was,
however, so natural that he should make his appearance
in the trouble which existed in the house, that nothing
but a visit of sympathy was thought of. And Dolly
was with him, upon whom Lady Markham looked with
different eyes — ^a little jealous, a little tender — ready to
find out every evidence the girl might show of interest
in Paul. There was abundant opportunity to judge of
her feelings in this respect, for Paul was the chief
subject spoken of Mr. Stainforth had come with no
other object. He led Lady Markham to the further end
of the room while the two girls talked.

''I want to say something to you," he said. It was
to ask what Paul was going to do — what his intentions
were. " It breaks my heart to think of it," said the old
man; 'but we must submit to fate." He was something
of a heathen, though he was a clergyman, and
this was how he chose to put it: "What is he going
to do?"

Alas ! of all the subjects on which his mother could

have been questioned, this was the most embarrassing.
She sighed, and said —

'' I cannot tell. There were some schemes in his head
or rather he had been drawn into some schemes — of
emigration — before all this sorrow came."

Emigration ! before ! "

The rector could not make this out. ,

*' You knows that his opinions gave us some trouble.
It was a — visionary scheme — for the advantage of other
people," Lady Markham said.

Ah ! there must be no more of that, my dear Lady
Markham ; there must be no more of that. Socialism
under some gloss or other, I know : — but life has become
too serious with Paul now for any nonsense like that."

'' I wish I could think he would see it in that light,"
said his mother, shaking her head.

But he must; there is no choice left him. He must
see it in that light. I do not know whether this that T
am going to suggest ever came into your mind. Lady
Markham, Paul must take the living, that is all about
it. He must take orders ; and as soon as he is ready, I
will abdicate. I should have done so long ago had
there been a son of the house comines on. He must

go into the Church — that is by far the best thing
to do."

The Church ! " said Lady Markham, in extreme
surprise. " I fear he would never think of that, Mr.
Stainforth."

Then he will be very foolish," said the old Rector.
*' What do these foolish young fellows mean ? It is an
excellent living, a good house, not too much to do, good
society, and a good position. Suppose they don't like
visiting old women, and that sort of thing, they can
always get some one to do it for them — a curate at the
worst, for that costs money ; but most likely the ladies
about. If he marries, which of course he would do,
his wife would attend to that. There is Dolly, who
saves me a great deal of trouble. She is quite as good
as a curate. Oh, for that matter, there are as great
drawbacks in the Church as in other professions. What
do the young fellows mean, Lady Markham, to reject
a very desirable life for such little annoyances as that ? "

Lady Markham still shook her head notwithstanding
the Rector's eloquence.

Paul would not see it in that light," she said.
'' Unless he could throw himself into all the duties with

Lis whole heart, he would never do it, and I fear he
would not be able to do that."

"This is nonsense," said Mr. Stainforth. The old
man was very much in earnest. ''I would soon show
him that all that is really necessary is very easy to get
through, and short of his natural position there would
be none so suitable. He must think of it. I cannot
think of anything that would be so suitable. The bar
is overcrowded, he is not a fellow to think of the army,
though, indeed," said the old man, with a cold-blooded
determination to say out all he meant, "if there was a
war, and men had a chance of good promotion, I don't
know that I should say anything against that. But the
Church, Lady Markham, the Church : — Almost as good
a house as this is, if not so big, and a great deal of
leisure. I assure you I could easily convince him that
there is nothing he could choose which would not afford
drawbacks quite as great. And, short of his natural
position, the Rector of Markham Koyal is not a bad
thing to look to. He might marry well, and as probably
the other will never marry "

Ah ! " said Lady Markham, with her eyes full of
tears, '' it is easy to talk ; but Paul would never lend any

ear to that. In all likelihood, so far as I know, his
decision is already made. That is to say," she added
with a sigh, 'rit was all settled before. Why should
he change now when everything favours him ? when
Providence itself has moved all hindrances out of his
way ? "

"But he must not, Madam," cried the Rector, raising
his voice. " What, emigrate ! and leave you here in your
widowhood with no one to stand by you ! This is nonsense
— nonsense. Lady Markham. I assure you, my
dear Madam, it is impossible, it must not be."

Lady Markham smiled faintly through her tears.
She shook her head. It seemed to her that the old
Rector, with all his long life behind him, was so much
less experienced, so much more youthful than she was.
MvM not be ! What did it matter who said that so honor

o

as the boy himsel did not say it ? The Rector had so
raised his voice that the two girls had an excuse for
coming nearer, for asking, with their eyes at least,
what it was.

The Rector says Paul must not go ; that he ought
to go into the Church and succeed to the living. Ah ! "
cried Lady Markham, "it is so easy to say 'ought' and

must not.' And what can I say ? that he will do what
he thinks right, not what we think right. What
does any one else matter ? He will do — what he likes
himself."

Her voice was choked — her heart was very sore.
Never had she breathed a word of censure upon Paul
to other ears than perhaps those of Alice before. Her
usual strength had forsaken her. And Alice, who was
estranged and chilled, did not go near her mother.
Dolly Stainforth had never been brought up to neglect
her duties in this particular. Her business in life had
always been with people who were in trouble ; a kind
of professional habit, so to speak, delivered her from
shyness even when her own feelings were concerned.
She went up quickly to the poor lady who was weeping,
without restraint, and took her hand in those soft little
firm hands which had held up so many. Not so mucha
shy girl full of great tenderness as a little celestial
curate, devoted everywhere to the service of the sorrowful,
she did not blush or hesitate, but with two big
tears in her eyes spoke her consolation.

Oh dear Lady Markham," Dolly said, '* are you not
proud, are you not happy to know that it is only what

VOL. IIL L

he thinks right that he will do ? What could any one
say more ? Papa does not know him as — as you do.
He thinks he might be persuaded, though his heart
would not be in it ; but you — you would not have him
do that ? I — " said Dolly all unawares, betraying herself
with a little sob in her throat and her voice sinking
so low as almost to be inaudible — " I " (as if she had
anything to do with it ! strong emotion gave her such
importance) " would rather he should go — than stay
like that ! "

Lady Markham clasped her fingers about those two
little firm yet tremulous hands. It was the kind of
consolation she wanted. She put up her face to kiss
Dolly, who straightway broke down and cried, and was
an angel-curate no longer. By this time herself had
come in, and her own deep-seated, childish preference,
which she had not known to be love. '' Tel — tch — itch,"
said the Rector under his breath, thinking within himself
some common thought about the ridiculousness of
women, even the best. But already there were other
spectators who had seen and heard some portion of what
was going on. It was the worst of Lady Markham* s
pretty room that it was liable to be approached without

warning. Alice suddenly sprang up with a cry of
astonishment, dismay, and delight. '' Paul ! " she cried,
startling the whole party as if a shell had fallen among
them. The young man stood within the half-drawn
curtains with a pale and serious face, looking at the
group. His mother thought of but one thing as she
looked up and saw him before her. He had come to
tell her that now all was over, and nothing remaining
but the last farewell to say.

The rest of the party did not see, however, what
Alice, who was detached from them saw, that there was
some one beyond the curtains, hanging outside as one
who had no right to enter — a little downcast, but yet,
as always, faintly amused by the situation. The sight
of him gave her a shock as of a dream come true. " If
you should think better of it," he seemed to be saying.
The sudden apparition, with the smile about the corners
of his lips which seemed so familiar, startled her as
much as the appearance which her imagination had
called forth a few hours before.

L 2

The presence of Mr. Stainforth and his daughter
added another embarrassment to the sudden arrival of
Paul. His mother did not know what to say to him,
how to restrain her questions, — how to talk of his health
and his occupations, if the journey had been pleasant,
how he had come from the station, and all the other
trivialities which are said to a visitor suddenly arriving.
She had to treat Paul like a visitor while the others
were there. Paul for his part answered these matter-of-course
questions very briefly. He had an air of suffering
both mentally and bodily, and he was very pale. He
looked at Dolly Stainforth, and said nothing, sitting in
the shade as far from the great window as possible.
And the Rector would not go away. He sat and put
innumerable questions to the new-comer. What he was

going to do ? What he thought of this thing and the
other ? Of course he was going back to Oxford to take
his degree ? that was the one thing that was indispensable.
Paul gave the shortest possible answers to every
question, and they were not of a satisfactory description.
His mother, anxiously watching and fretting beyond
measure to be thus kept in suspense about his purposes,
could get no information from what he said to Mr.
Stainforth, nor did the earnest gaze she had fixed upon
him bring her any more enlightenment. Alice had gone
out beyond the shade of the curtains to speak to Fairfax,
and the embarrassment of the four thus left together
was extreme. Dolly had not spoken a word since Paul
entered. She had given him her hand, no more, when
he came in, but she did not speak to him or even raise
her head, except to listen with something of the same
breathless anxiety as was apparent in Lady Markham's
face, while the old Rector went on with his questions and
advices. The two women trembled in concert with a
mutual sense of intolerable suspense, scarcely able to
bear it. Dolly knew, however, that she would have to
bear it, that she had nothing to do with the matter, that
the only service she could do them was to relieve the

mother and son of her presence and that of her father,
who, however, after she had at length got him to his
feet, still stood for ten minutes at least holding Paul's
hand and impressing a great many platitudes upon his
attention — with " Depend upon it, my dear boy," and
You may take my word for it." Paul had no mind to
depend upon anything he said or to take his word for it
in any way. He stood saying "Yes" and ''No," or
replying only with a nod of his head to his mentor.
But Mr. Stainforth was not at all aware that he had
stayed a second too long. He blamed Dolly for the
haste with which she had hurried him away. " But I
am glad I had the opportunity of seeing Paul," the old
man said complacently, as his daughter drove him down
the avenue. " You must have seen how pleased he was
to talk his circumstances over with such an old friend
as myself. Poor fellow, that is just what he must most
want now. The ladies are very much attached to him,
of course, but with the best intentions in the world, how
can they know ? He wants a man to talk to," said Mr.
Stainforth ; and " I suppose so, papa," Dolly said.

Lady Markham turned to her son as soon as the
Rector's back was turned, her face quivering with

anxiety. " Paul ? Paul ? " she said with the interest
question in her tone, though she asked nothing, seizing
him by both hands.

Well, mother ? " He met her eye with something
of the old impatience in his voice.

You have come to tell me ? " she said breathless.

I don't know what I have come to tell you. I have
come recollect some of my things. You speak as if I
had some important decision to make. You forget that
there is nothing important about me, mother, one way
or another," Paul said with a smile. It was an angry
smile, and it did not reassure his anxious hearer. He
gave a little wave with his hand towards the larger room.
** Fairfax is with me," he said.

Mr. Fairfax ! I thought we might have had you to
ourselves for this time at least." There was a querulous
tone in her voice. He did not know that she was
thinking of what he considered an old affair, of a separation
which might be for ever. All that had been swept
away completely out of Paul's mind as if it had never
been, and he could not comprehend her anxiety. " But,"
she added, recollecting herself, '' I might have known
that could not be. Paul, I don't know what you will

say to me. I was in a great difficulty. I did not know
what to do. I have let him come to the house. He is
here, actually staying here now."

He ! What do you mean by he?" Then while
she looked at him with the keenest anxiety, a gleam of
understanding and contemptuous anger came over his
face. " Well ! " he said, '' I suppose you could not shut
him out of what is his own house."

'' I might have left it, my dear. I intend to leave
it "

Why ? " he said ; " if you can live under the same
roof with him, why not ? Do you think I will have any
objection ? It cannot matter much to me."

It was all settled then ! She looked at him wistfully
with a smile of pain, clasping her hands together. " He
is very friendly, Paul. He wants to be very kind. And
it is better there should be no scandal. I have your —
poor father's memory to think of — "

Paul's face again took its sternest look. 'rit is a
pity he himself had not thought a little of what was to
come after. laughing to put my things together, mother."

But you will stay, you are not going away to-night
not directly, Paul ! "

Shall I have to ask Sir Gus's leave to stay ? " he
said with a harsh laugh.

Oh, Paul, you are very unkind, more unkind than
he is," said Lady Markham, with tears in her eyes.
"He has never taken anything upon him. Up to this
moment it has never been suggested to me that I was
not in my own house."

'' Nevertheless, it is his," said her son. He made a
step or two towards the opening, then turned back with
some embarrassment. " Mother, it is possible — I do not
say likely — but still it is possible : that — Spears may
come here to make some final arrangements tomorrow,
before he goes."

''Oh Paul !" she said, with a low cry of pain : but
there was nothing in this exclamation to which he could
make any reply. He hesitated for a moment, then
turned again and went away. Lady Markham stood
where he had left her, clasping her hands together
against her bosom as if to staunch the wounds she had
received and hide them, feeling the throb and ache of
suffering go over her from head to foot. She felt that
he was merciless, not only abandoning her without a
word of regret, but parading before her his preparations

for this mad journey, and the new companions who
were to replace his family in his life. But Paul only
thought she was displeased by the name of Spears. He
went his way heavily enough, going through the
familiar place which was no longer home, to the room
which had been his from his childhood, but was his
no longer. As if this was not pain enough, there was
looming before him, threatening him, this shadow of a
last explanation with Spears. What was there to
explain to Spears ? He could not tell. Others had
deserted the undertaking as well as he. And Paul
would not say to himself that there was another question,
though he was aware of it to the depths of his being.
Not a word had been said about Janet ; yet it was not
possible but that something must be said on that
subject. His whole life was still made uncertain,
doubtful, suspended in a horrible uncertainty because
of this. "What honour demanded of him, Paul knew
that he must do ; but what was it that honour
demanded ? It was the last question of his old life that
remained to be settled, but it was a bitter question.
And just when it had to be decided, just when it was
necessary that he should brave himself to do what might

turn out to be his duty, why, why was he made the
hearer unawares of Dolly's little address in his defence ?
She had always stood up for him ; he remembered
many a boyish offence in which Dolly, a mere baby,
uncertain in speech, had stood up for him. If he had
to do this — which he did not describe to himself in
other words — Dolly would still stand up for him. Withall
these thoughts in his mind as he went upstairs,
Paul was far too deeply occupied to think much of the
personage whom he contemptuously called Sir Gus — Sir
Gus was only an accident, though a painful and almost
fatal one, in the young man's path.

When Lady Markham had sufficiently overcome the
sharp keenness of this latest wound, her ear was caught
by a murmur of voices in the other room. This had
been going on, she was vaguely sensible, for some time
through all Mr. Stainforth's lingering and leavetaking,
and through her own conversation with Paul; voices
that were low and soft — not obtrusive ; as if the speakers
had no wish to attract attention, or to have their talk
interfered with. Perhaps this tone is of all others the
most Hkely to provoke any listener into interruption.
A vague uneasiness awoke in Lady Markham' s mind.

She put back the curtains which had partially veiled
the entrance to her own room with a slightly impatient
hand. When one is wounded and aching in heart and
mind, it is so hard not to be impatient. Alice had seated
herself in a low chair, half hidden in one of the lace
curtains that veiled a window, and Fairfax was leaning
against the window talking to her. There was something
tender and confidential in the sound of histoire.
It was he who spoke most, but her replies were in the
same tone, a tone of which both were entirely unconscious,
but which struck Lady Markham with mingled
suspicion and alarm. How had these two got to know
each other well enough to speak in such subdued voices ?
She had never known or realised how much they had
been thrown together during her absence in the sickroom.
When she drew back the curtain, Alice
instinctively withdrew her chair a hair's breadth, and
Fairfax stood quite upright, leaning upon the window
no longer. This alteration of their attitudes at the
sight of her startled Lady Markham still more. Fairfax
came forward hurriedly as she came into the drawing-room,
a little flushed and nervous.

"I hope you will not consider this visit an impertinence,"

lie said. ''I thought I must come with
Markham to take care of him. He — twisted his foot —
did he tell you ? It is all right now, but I thought it
would be well to come and take care of him," Fairfax
said, with that conciliatory smile and unnecessary
repetition which marked his own consciousness of a
feeble cause.

I did not hear anything about it' Lady Markham
said. " He has been writing me very short letters.
You are very kind, Mr. Fairfax — very kind ; we know
that of old."

'' That is the last name to give my selfish intrusion,"
he said ; then added, after a pause, " And I had something
I wanted to speak to you about. Did Miss
Markham," he said, hesitating, shifting from one foot
to the other, and showing every symptom of extreme
embarrassment — "Did Miss Markham tell you — what
I had been saying to her ? "

Alice had taken occasion of her mother's entry upon
the scene to rise from her chair and come quite out of
the shelter of the curtain. She was standing (as indeed
they all were) immediately in front of the window, with
the light full upon her, when he put this question. He

looked from Lady Markham to her as he spoke, and by-bad
luck caught Alice's eye. Then — why or wherefore,
who could say ? — the countenances of these two foolish
young people suddenly flamed, the one taking light from
the other, with the most hot and overwhelming blush.
Alice seemed to be enveloped in it ; she felt it passing
over her like the sudden reflection of some instantaneous
flame. She shrank back a step, her eyes fell with an
embarrassment beyond all power of explanation. As for
Fairfax, he stole a second guilty look at her, and stopped
short — his voice suddenly breaking off with a thrill in it,
like that of a cord that has snapped. Lady Markham
looked on at this extraordinary pantomime with consternation.
What could she think, or any mother?
She felt herself grow crimson, too, with alarm and
distress.

"What was it you were saying, Mr. Fairfax? Alice
has not said anything to me*'

'' O — oh ! " he said ; then gave a faint little laugh of
agitation and confusion, and something that sounded
strangely like happiness. "It was — nothing — not
much — something of very little importance — only
about myself. Perhaps you would let me have a

little conversation, . when it is quite convenient, Lady
Markham, with you ? "

Surely," she said, but with a coldness she could
not restrain. What a thing it is to be a mother ! The
sentiment has found utterance in Greek, so it does not
profess to be novel. If not one thing, then another ;
sometimes two troubles together, or six, as many as she
has children — except that, in the merciful dispensation
of Providence, the woman who has many children
cannot make herself so wretched about every individual
as she who has few contrives to do. Only Pau] and
Alice however were old enough to give their mother
this kind of discipline, and in a moment she felt herself
plunged into the depths of a second anxiety. There
was a very uncomfortable pause. Alice would have
liked to run away to her room, to hide herself in utter
shame of her own weakness, but dared not, fearing that
this would only call the attention of the others more
forcibly to it — as if anything was wanted to confirm
that impression ! She stood still, therefore, for a
few minutes, and made one or two extremely formal
remarks, pointing out that the days were already much
shorter and the afternoon beginning to close in. Both

her companions assented, the one with tender, the other
with suspicious and alarmed glances. Then it occurred
to Alice to say that she would go and see if Paul wanted
anything. The others watched her breathless' as she
went away.

Mr. Fairfax, what does this mean ? " said Lady
Markham, almost haughtily.

Was it not enough to make the politest of women
forget her manners? Fairfax did not know, any more
than she did, what it meant. He hoped that it meant
a great deal more than he had ever hoped, and his
heart was dancing with sudden pride and happiness.

'rit means," he said, 'dear Lady Markham, what
you see : that I have forgotten myself, and that being
nobody, I have ventured to lift my eyes — oh, don't
imagine I don't know it ! — to one who is immeasurably
above me — to one who — I won't trust myself to say
anything about her — you know," said the young man.
How could I help it ? I saw her — though it was but
for a little while — every day."

When her father was dying ! " cried Lady Markham,
with a sob. This was what went to her heart. Her
Alice, her spotless child — to let this stranger woo her in

the very shadow of. her father's death-bed. She covered
her face with her hands. Paul had not wrung her heart
enough; there was one more drop of pain to be
crushed out.

'' I did not think of that. I did not think of anything,
except that I was there — in a paradise I had no
right to be in — by her side : heaven knows how. I
had so little right to it that it looked like heaven's
own doing, Lady Markham. I did not know there was
any such garden of Eden in the world," he said. " I
never knew there was such a woman as you ; and then
she — that was the crown of all. Do you think I intended
it ? I was surprised out of my senses altogether.
I should have liked to stretch myself out like a bit of
carpet for you to walk on : and she "

Mr. Fairfax, this is nonsense," said Lady Markham,
but in a softened tone. '' My daughter is just like other
girls ; but when I was compelled to leave her, when
my other duties called me, could I have supposed
that a gentleman would have taken advantage "

'' Ah ! " he said, with a tone of profound discouragement,
'' perhaps that is what it is — perhaps it may be
because T am not what people call a gentleman."

VOL. III. M

Mr. Fairfax ! " cried Lady Markham, with horror
in her voice.

"Yes," he said, with a sigh, 'rit is out now; that
is what I wanted to ask if Miss Markham had
told you. I am nobody, Lady Markham. I don't
belong to the Wiltshire Fairfaxeseseses, or to the Fairfaxeseseses
of the north, or to any Fairfaxeses that ever were heard
of: I told her so. T did not want to come into
your house under false pretences ; and it was that
that I meant to ask Miss Markham when — I
betrayed myself."

'' You betrayed yourself ? " Lady Markham was
entirely bewildered ; for to her it appeared that it was
Alice who had betrayed herself. But this new statement
calmed and restrained her. If he had not
remarked, perhaps, the agitation of Alice, it was not
for her mother to point it out. 'ram I to understand,
Mr. Fairfax, that you said anything to Alice, when you
were here in the midst of our trouble ? "

No," he cried out ; " surely no. What do you take
me for ? "

She put out her hand to him with her usual gracious
kindness: "For a gentleman, Mr. Fairfax; and the

kindest heart iu the world. Of course I knew there
must be some mistake."

But when they had gone through this explanation
and reconciliation, they came back simultaneously to
a recollection of that blaze of sudden colour on Alice's
face, and felt the one with rapture, the other with
great alarm and tribulation, that in respect to this there
could not be any mistake.

'but, Lady Markham," said the young man, "all
this does not alter my circumstances. You are very
kind and good to me ; but here are the facts of the
case. I have seen her now ; none of us can alter that.
It was not, so to speak, my doing. It was — accident,
as people say. Alien a man has had a revelation like
this, he does not believe it is an accident ; he knows,"
said Fairfax, with a slight quiver of his lip, " that
something higher than accident has had to do with it.
And it can't be altered now. When that comes into a
man's heart, it is for his life. And, at the same time, I
confess to you that I am nobody, Lady Markham — not
fit to tie her shoe ; but I might be a prince, and not
crowd enough for that. What is to be done with me ?
Am I to be put to the door once for all, and never to

M 2

come near her again ? Whatever you say I am to do,
I will do it. I believe in you as I do in heaven.
What you tell me, I will do it ; though it may make
an end of me, it shall be done all the same."

Did you come to Markham all the way to say this
to me, Mr. Fairfax ? " Lady Markham put the question
only to gain a little time.

No ; I came pretending it was to take care of Paul,
who did twist his foot — that is true ; and pretending
that it was to ask you to persuade him to let me help
him (I know a few people and that sort of thing," said
Fairfax hurriedly) ; 'but I believe, if I must tell the
truth, it was only just to have the chance of getting
one look at her again. That was all. I did not mean
to be so bold as to say a word — only to see her again."

You wanted to help Paul ! " Lady Markham felt
her head going round. If he was nobody, how could
he help Paul ? The whole imbroglio seemed more
than she could fathom. And Fairfax was confused
too.

'' There are some little things — that I have in my
power : I thought, if he would let me, I might set him
in the way : I'll speak of all that another time,

Lady Markham. . When a thing like this gets the
upper hand, one can't get one's head clear for anything
else. Now that I have betrayed myself, which I did
not mean to, tell me — tell me what is to be done with
me. I cannot think of anything else."

What was to be done with him ? It is to be feared
that, kind as Lady Markham was, she would have made
bat short work with Fairfax, had it been he only who
had betrayed himself. But the light that had blazed
on the face of Alice was another kind of illumination
altogether. A hasty sentence would not answer here.

It would have been difficult to imagine a more
embarrassed and embarrassing party than were the
Markham family, when they assembled to dinner that
evening. Sir Gus and the little girls had met Fairfax
going down the avenue, and had tried every persuasion
in their power to induce him to return with them ; but
he would not do so. " I am coming back tomorrow,"
he said ; but for this evening he was bound for the
Markham Arms, where he had been before, and nothing
would move him from his determination.

When Gus went into the drawing-room with his
little companions, the tea was found there, all alone in
solitary dignity ; the table set out, the china and silver
shining, the little kettle emitting cheerful puffs of
steam, but no one visible. What can be more dismal

than this ghost of the cheerfulness of refreshments — the
tea made and waiting, but not a woman to be seen ?
It impressed this innocent group with a sense of
misfortune.

Where can they be ? " Bell cried ; and she ran upstairs,
sending her summons before her : '' Marina — •
mamma — please come to tea."

By and by, however, Bell came down looking
extremely grave.

Mamma has a headache," she said. This was a
calamities almost unknown at Markham. " And Alice
has a headache too," she added, after a moment's
pause.

Bell's looks were very serious, and the occasion could
scarcely be called less than tragical. The little girls
themselves had to make Gus's tea — they did it, as it
where, in a whisper — one putting in the sugar, the
other burning her fingers with the tea-pot. It was not
like afternoon tea at all, but like some late meal in
the schoolroom when Mademoiselle had a headache.
It was only Mademoiselle who was given to headache
at Markham. It was Brown who told Sir Augustus of
Paul's arrival. Lady Markham had been wounded by

Brown's behaviour from the first. He had not clung to
the "family" to which he had expressed so much
devotion. He had gone over at once to the side of the
new master of the house. He had felt no indignation
towards the interloper, nor any partisanship on behalf
of Paul. He came up now with his most obsequious
air, as Gus came out of the drawing-room.

I beg your pardon, Sir Augustus, but Mr. Paul has
come."

'' Oh, he has come, has he ?" Gus said.

Brown stood respectfully ready, as if he would undertake
at the next word to turn Mr. Paul out of the
house ; no wonder Lady Markham was indignant. Gus
understood it all now — the headaches and the deserted
tea-table. No doubt the mother and sister were with
Paul, comforting and consoling him. He gave forth a
little sigh when he thought of it. Whatever might
happen, no one would ever console him in that way.
Paul had always the better of him, even when disinherited.
But when they went into the drawing-room
before dinner, he was very anxious to be friendly to
Paul. He went up to him holding out his hand.

I am very glad that we meet like this," he said.

*your mother has taken me in, for which I am
grateful to her; and I am very glad that we have
met. I hope you will not think any Averse of me than
you can help."

''I do not think worse of you at all' Paul said,
briefly ; but he would not enter into conversation. And
the whole party were silent. Whether it was the
influence of the son's return, who was nothing now buta
secondary person in the house where he had been the
chief, or whether there was any other cause beside, Gus
could not tell. Even the mother and daughter did not
talk to each other. When dinner was over, and Mr.
Brown, with his too observant eyes, was got rid of, the
forlorn little stranger, who was the new baronet, the
conqueror, the master of the situation, could almost
have wept, so lonely and left out did he feel.

Is anything going to happen ? " he said. " I know
I am no better than an outsider among you, but I would
like to enter into everything that concerns you, if you
would let me. Is anything going to happen ? "

I don't know of anything that is going to happen,"
said Paul ; and the ladies said nothing. There was no
long-er that intercourse of looks between them, of half-words

and rapid allusions, which Gus admired. They
sat, each wrapped as in a cloud of her own. And rarely
had a night of such confused melancholy and depression
been spent at Markham. Alice, who feared to encounter
any examination by her mother, went upstairs again,
scarcely entering the drawing-room at all. And Lady
Markham sat alone amid all the soft, yet dazzling,
lights, which again seemed to blaze as they had blazed
who Sir William was dying, suggesting the tranquil
household peace which seemed now over for ever. Was
it over for ever ? The very room in which she was
seated was hers no looser. Her son was hers no longer,
but about to be lost to her — separated by wide seas, and
still more surely by other associations, and the severance
of the heart. And even Alice — Lady Markham could
not reconcile herself to the thought that while her
husband was dying, and she watching by his side, Alice
had allowed herself to be drawn into a new life and new
thoughts. It seemed an impiety to him who was gone.
Everything was impiety to him : the stranger in his
place, though that stranger was his son ; the shattering
of his image, though it was his own hand that had done
it ; the dispersion of his children. Thank God ! three

were still the little ones. She thought, with a forlorn
pang in her heart, that she would withdraw herself with
them to the contracted life of the Dower-house, and
there reconstruct her domestic temple. Bell and Marie,
Harry and Roland, would retain the idea of their father
unimpaired, as Paul and Alice could not do. But what
does it matter that all is well with the others when one
of your children is in trouble ? it is always the lean
kine that swallow up those that are fat and flourishing.
Her heart was so sore with the present that she could
not console herself with the future. How could it be
that Job was comforted with other sons and daughters,
instead of those he had lost ? How many a poor
creature has wondered over this ! Can one make up
for another ? Lady Markham sat all alone, half
suffocated with unshed tears. Paul was going away,
and she had not the courage to go to Alice, to question
her, to hear that in heart she also had gone away. Thus
she sat disconsolate in the drawing-room, while Gus
took possession of the library. The poor little gentleman
was still sadder than Lady Markham ; not so unhappy,
but sadder, not knowing what to do with himself. The
long evening alone appalled him. He took a book, but

he was not very fond of reading. The children had
gone to bed. He went to the window once, and, looking
out, saw a red spark, moving about among the trees, of
Paul's cigar. Probably, if he joined him, it would only
be to feel more the enormity of his own existence.
Gus went back to his chair, and drawing himself close
to the fire (which Mr. Brown had caused to be lighted,
reflection that Sir Augustus was a foreigner, and mio^ht
feel chilly), fell asleep there, and so spent a forlorn
evening all by himself Was this what he had come to
England for, to struggle for his rights, and make
everybody unhappy ? It was not a very lofty end
after all.

And next day there was so much to be settled. Paul
was astir early, excited and restless, he could not tell
why. It seemed to him that one way or other his fate
was to be settled that day. If Janet Spears clung to
him, if she insisted on keeping her hold upon him, what
was he to do ? He went down very early to the village,
wandering about all the places he had known. He had
never been very genial in his manners with the poor
people, but yet he had been known to them all his life,
and received salutations on all sides. Some of them

still called him Sir Paul. They knew he was not his
father's successor — that there was another and altogether
new name in the Markham family — but the good
rustics, many of them, could not make out how, once
having been Sir Paul to their certain consciousness, he
could ever cease to bear that title. The name brought
back to the yoimg man's mind the flash of finer feeling,
the subdued and sorrowful elation with which he had
walked about these quiet roads on the morning of his
father's funeral. He had meant to lead a noble life
among these ancestral woods. All that his father was
and more, he had intended to be. He had meant to
show his gratitude for having escaped from the snare of
those follies of his youth which had nearly cast him
away, by tolerance and help to those who were like
himself. In politics, in the management of the people
immediately within his influence, he had meant to give
the world assurance of a man. But now that was allover.
In his place was poor little Gus : and he himself
had neither influence nor power. What a change it
was ! He strayed into the churchyard to his father's
grave, still covered with flowers, and then — why not ? —
he thought he would go up to the rectory and ask them

to give him some breakfast. Though he did not care
enough for Gus to avoid his presence, yet it was a
restraint; there never, he thought, could be any true
fellowship between them. He went and tapped at the
window of the breakfast-room which he knew so welland
where Dolly was making the tea. She opened it
to him with a little cry of pleasure. Dolly had not
made any pretence of putting on mourning when Sir
William died, but ever since she had worn her black
frock ; nobody could reproach her with encroaching upon
the privileges of the family by this, for a black frock
was what any one might wear; but Paul, who was
ignorant, was touched by her dress. She had been
looking pale when she stood over the table with the tea-caddy,
but when she saw who it was Dolly bloomed
like a winter-rose. It was October now, the leaves
beginning to fall, and a little fire made the room bright,
though the weather was not yet cold enough for fires.
Paul had never once considered himself in love with
Dolly in the old days. Perhaps it was only the contrast
between her and Janet Spears that moved him now.
He knew that one way or other the question about
Janet Spears would have to be concluded before the

day was done ; and this consciousness made Dolly
fairer and sweeter to him than ever she had been
before.

And the rector was very glad to see Paul. He
understood the young man's early visit at once. Mr.
Stainforth had never entertained any doubt on the
subject. To talk over his affairs with a man of
experience and good sense must be a very different
things from discussing them with ladies, however
sensible ; and he plunged into" good advice to the young
man almost before he began his tea.

There is one thing I am certain you ought to do,"
Mr. Stainforth said, '' I told your mother so yesterday.
I am an old man and I cannot stand long in any one's
way. Paul, you must take orders; that is what you
must do : and succeed me in the living. It is a thing
which has always been considered an excellent provision
for a second son; among your own people — and you
know that this is an excellent house. Dolly will show
you all over it. For a man of moderate tastes it is as
good as Markham, and not expensive to keep up. And
as for the duty, depend upon it, my dear boy, you would
find no difficulty about that. Why, Dolly does the

most part of the parish work. Of course you could not
have Dolly," said the old man, at his ease, not thinking
of how the young ones felt,* 'but somebody would turnup.
It is a good position and it is not a hard life. As
soon as I heard what had happened I said to myself at
once, the living is the very thing for Paul."

Paul could not help a furtive glance round him, a
momentary review of the position, a rapid imperceptible
flash of his eyes towards Dolly, who sat very demurely
in front of the tea-urn. How glad she was of that tea-urn
! But he shook his head.

I am afraid I shall not be able to settle myself so
easily as that," he said.

'' But why not, why not ? " asked the old man ; and
he went on expatiating upon the advantages of this
step. " I would retire as soon as you were ready. I
have often thought of retiring. It is Dolly rather than
I that has wanted to remain. Dolly seems to think
that she cannot live away from Markham Koyal."

''Oh, no, papa," Dolly cried, "it was only because
there was no reason. I could live — anywhere."

I know what you will do," said the old man, " when
I am gone, you will come back and flutter like a little

ghost about sour schools and your poor people : you
will think nobody can manage them but yourself ; unless
you marry, you know — unless you marry. That would
make a difference. For the peace of the new rector I
must get you married, Dolly, before I receive notice
to quit, my dear."

And he laughed with his old shrill laugh, not thinking
what might be going on in those young bosoms. That
Dolly should marry anybody was a joke to her father,
and that Paul should have any feeling on the subject
never occurred to him. He cackled and laughed at his
own joke, and then he became serious, aid once more
impressed all the advantages of the living upon his
visitor. The curious mingling of confusion, embarrassment,
distress, and pleasure with which the two listened
it would be difficult to describe. Even Dolly, though
she was abashed and horrified by the two simple
suggestions which the old man neither intended nor
dreamt of, felt a certain vague shadowy pleasure in it,
as of a thing that never could come true but yet was
sweet enough as a dream ; and because of the tea-urn
which hid her from Paul, felt safe, and was almost
happy in the thrill of consciousness which ran to her
VOL. III. N

finger tips. They did not see each other, either of
them : and this was a thing which was impossible, never
to be. But yet it put them by each other's side as if
they were going to set out upon life together, and the
sensation was sweet.

Paul turned it over and over in his head as he went
home. It was not the life he would have chosen, but
the old man's materialistic view of it had for the
moment a charm. The sheltered quiet life, the mild
duty, the ease and leisure, with no struggle or trouble
to attain to them — was it a temptation ? He laughed
out as he asked himself the question. No ! Paul
might perhaps have been a missionary after the apostolic
model ; but a clergyman with very little to do and a
wife to do the great part of that little for him — no, he
said to himself, no I And then he sighed — for the
rectory, under those familiar skies, and little Dolly,
whom he had known since she was a baby, were very
sweet.

It was something very different for which he had to
prepare himself now. As he walked towards home he
suddenly came in sight, as he turned the village corner
into the high road, of a pair who were walking on

before him from the station. Paul's heart gave a sudden
leap in his breast, but not with joy. He stood still fora
moment, then went on, making no effort to overtake
them. A man and a woman plodding along the dusty
road : he with the long strides and clumsy gait of one
who was quite destitute of that physical training which
gives to the upper classes so much of their superiority,
his arms swinging loosely from his shoulders ; she
encumbered with the skirt of her dress, which trailed
along the dusty road. The sun was high by this time,
and very warm, and they felt it. Paul did not take his
eyes from them as they went along, but he made no
effort to make up to them. This was what he had
played nth in the time of his folly — what he thought
he had chosen, without ever choosing it. What could
he do, what could he do, he cried out in his heart with
the vehemence of despair, to be clear of it now ?

Spears had come to settle his accounts with Paul. In
the course of the negotiation which had gone so far, which
had gone indeed as far as anything could go not to be
settled and concluded, he had received money from the
young man for his share of the emigration capital. That
Paul, when he separated himself from the party meant

N 2

to leave this with them as a help to them, there was no

doubt; and this was one reason why he had avoided

meeting with his old associates, or ending formally the

connection between them. And when Spears demanded

that a place of meeting should be appointed, Paul had with

reluctance decided upon Markham as a half-way house,

where he would have the help of his mother to smooth

down and mollify the demagogue. Spears had been deeply

compunctious for the part he had taken against Paul in

London, but was also deeply wounded by Paul's refusal

to accept his self-humiliation ; and his object in seeking

him now was not, as Paul thought, to reproach him for

his desertion, nor was it to call him to account on the

subject of Janet. Paul himself was not sufficiently

generous, not noble enough to understand the proud

and upright character of the humble agitator, who

carried the heart of a prince under his working man's

clothes, and to whom it was always more easy to give

than to take. Spears was coming with a very different

purpose. With the greatest trouble and struggle he

had managed to reclaim, and separate from the other

money collected, the sum paid by Paul. It had been

not only a wonderful blow to his personal pride and his

affections, but it diminished greatly his importance
among his fellows when it was discovered that the
young aristocrat, of whose adhesion they were inconsistently
proud, was no longer under the influence or at
the command of Spears ; and it had cost him not only
a great deal of trouble to collect Paul's money, but a
sacrifice of something of his own ; and he had so little !
Nevertheless, he had it all in his pocket-book when he
prepared that morning to keep the rendezvous which
Paul had unwillingly given him.

Spears did not know till the last moment that his
daughter meant to accompany him. She walked to
the station with him, and took his ticket for him, and
he suspected nothing. It was not until she joined him
in the railway carriage that he understood what she
meant, and then it was too late to remonstrate. Besides,
his daughter told him it was Lady Markham she
was going to see. Lady Markham had been very kind
to her. It was right that she should go to say goodbye ;
and besides, you know, father — " Janet said. Yes,
he knew, but he did not know much ; and Janet was
aware, as Paul was not, that her father was far too
delicate, far too proud, to speak on her behalf He

would scorn to recall his daughter to any one who had
forgotten her ; if there was anything to be done for
Janet, it was herself who must do it. And Spears was
so uncertain about the whole business, so unaware of
what she was going to do, that he did not even try to
prevent her. He accepted her society accordingly, and
did not attempt to resist her will. She had a right, no
doubt, to look after her own affairs ; and he who did
not even know what these affairs were, what could he
say ? They had a very silent journey, finding little to
say to each other. His mind was full of saddened and
embittered affection, and of a proud determination not
to be indebted to a friend who had deserted him.
Each gifts grow poor when givers prove unkind," he
was saying to himself Undoubtedly it had given him
importance, the fact that the richest of all the colonists
was under his influence, and ready to do whatever he
might suggest. Not for a moment, however, would
Spears let this weigh with him. Yet it made his heart
all the sorer in spite of himself As for Janet, she had
a still more distinct personal arrangement on her hands.
They scarcely exchanged a word as they walked all that
way along the high road, and up the avenue, Paul

following, though they did not see him. In the hall,
Janet separated herself from her father,

It is Lady Markham / want to see," she said, with
a familiarity and decision which amazed her father, who
knew nothing about her previous visit. Janet recognised
the footman Charles who had admitted her before.
You know that Lady Markham will see me," she said ;
show me to Lady Markham's room, please."

"Spears did not understand it, but he looked on with
a vague smile. He himself was quite content to wait
in the hall until Paul should appear. He was standing
there vaguely remarking the things about him when
Paul made his appearance. He gave his former friend
his hand, but there was little said between them. Paul
took him into the library which for the moment was
vacant. It seemed to him that it would be easier to
answer questions there where already he had often
suffered interrogation and censure. And he did not
know — he could not divine what Spears was about
to say.

When do you go ? " the young man said.

We have everything settled to sail on the 21st.
That is five days from now."

I fear," said Paul, " it must have been very inconvenient
for you coming here. I am sorry, very sorry,
you have taken so much trouble. I should have gone
to you, but my mind has been in a whirl ; the whole
thins: looks to me like a dream."

"It is a dream that has given some of your friends
a great deal of trouble. Take care, my good fellow,
another time how you fall into dreams like this. It is
best to take a little more trouble at the beginning to
know your own mind'* he said slowly, tugging at his
pocket. "But after all you came to yourself before
there was any harm done, Markham. If it had
happened in the middle of the ocean, or when we had
got to our destination, it would have been still more
awkward. As it was, it has been possible to recover
your property," said Spears, at last producing a packet
out of its receptacle with a certain glow of suppressed
disdain in his countenance. He got out a little bag of
money as he spoke, and laid it on the table, then
produced his pocket-book, which he opened, and took
something out.

"What does this mean, Spears ? "

It means what is very simple, Paul — mere ABC

work, as you should know. It is the amount of your
subscriptions — what you have contributed in one way
or another. I won't trouble you with the items," he
said ; " they are all on a piece of paper with the banknotes.
And now here is the whole affair over," said
Spears with the motion of snapping his fingers, " and
no harm done. Fear young men are able to say as much
of their vagaries. Perhaps if you had involved yourself
with a higher class, with people more like yourself,
it might not have been equally easy to get away."

But this is impossible ! this cannot be ! " cried
Paul. " I intended nothing of the kind. Spears, you
humble me to the dust. You must not — it is not
possible that I can accept this. I intended — I made
sure "

You meant to leave us yourself, but to let your
money go as alms to the revolutionaries ? " cried Spears,
with a thrill of agitation in his voice which seemed to
make the room ring. "Yes, I suppose you might
have fallen among people who would have permitted it.
(The strange thing was that most of the members of
the society had been of this opinion, and that it was all
that Spears could do to rescue the money which the

others thought lawfully forfeited.) But we are not of
that kind. We don't want filthy money with the man
away, or even with his heart away."

The orator held his head high ; there was a certain
scorn about his gestures, about his mouth. He tried
to show by a careless smile and air that what he was
doing was of no importance, an easy and certain step of
which there could be no doubt ; but the thrill of excited
feeling in him could not be got out of his voice. And
Paul, perhaps, had even more excuse for excitement.

I will not take a farthing of the money," he said.

Then you will carry it back yourself, my lad. I
have washed my hands of it. If you think I will
permit a penny of yours to go into our treasury apart
from yourself and your sympathy and your help ! I
would have taken all that and welcome. I have told
you already — to little use — what you were to me, Paul
Markham. The Bible is right after all about idols,
though many is the word I've spoken against it. I
made an idol of you, and lo ! my image is broken into
a thousand pieces. It is like giving the thing a kick
the more," he said, with a sudden burst of harsh
laughter, " to think when it was all over and ended that

I would take the . money ! It shows how much you
knew me."

Then it is a mere matter of personal offence and
disappointment, Spears ? "

Offence !" he cried. ** Yes, offence if you like the
word — as it is offence when your friend puts a knife
into you. The first thing you feel is surprise. Who
could believe it ? He ! to stab you, when you were
leaning upon him. It takes all a man's credulity to
believe that. But when it is done — " he added with
one of the sudden smiles which used to illuminate his
rugged countenance, but now lighted it up with a gleam
of angry melancholy, just touched with humour, " you
don't take money from him, Paul."

Nor does he take it from you," said Paul, quickly.
Spears, this is all folly. It is not a matter of passion,
as you make it. Say I am as much in the wrong as you
like. I did not know my own mind. I have had
enough to go through in the last six weeks to teach me
many things more important than my own mind. I
can't go with you ; I have found out that — but what
then ? I don't lose my interest in you ; we don't cease
to be friends. As for stabbing you, putting a knife

into you — that is ludicrous' he cried, with an angry
laugh. " It is like a couple of lovers in a French novel ;
not two Englishmen and friends."

I'll tell you what, Paul," said the other, taking no
notice ; " if all had been going well with you, why I
could have put up with it. A place like this makes a
man think. I've told you so before. It's like being a
prince on a small scale. Had I been born a prince
I might have been a tyrant, but I shouldn't have
abandoned my throne ; and no more would you, I always
thought, if you once felt the charm of it. But when all
that was over, Paul, when you had lost everything,
come down from your high estate, and felt," cried
Spears, with an outburst of vehement feeling, '* the
burning and the bitterness of disappointment, that you
should have abandoned us, and the cause, and me —
your friend and father, then ! "

He turned away, and walked from end to end of the
long room. As for Paul, he did not say a word. What
could he say ? how could he explain that it was precisely
then, when he had lost everything, that those strange
companions had become most intolerable to him. They
were bearable when his choice of them was a folly, and

his own position utterly different from theirs ; but as
the distance lessened, the breach grew more apparent.
This however he could not say. Nor had he a word to
answer when Spears called himself his father. What
did it mean ? and where was Janet, whom he had seen
entering the house, but who had disappeared ? Paul's
thoughts veered away from the chief subject of the interview,
while Spears, walking up and down the room,
talked on. The money lay on the table, neither taking
any further notice of it. It was found there by Gus
when he came in an hour after, lying upon the table in
the same spot. Gus thought it a temptation to the
servants, and threw it into a drawer. He was not used
to careless dealing with money, and he looked out very
curiously at the strange man who was walking up and
down the avenue with Paul, talking much and gesticulating
largely. This was a kind of man altogether apart
from all Sir Gus's experiences, and his curiosity was
much exercised. Was it perhaps an electioneering
agent come here to talk of the representation of
Marlborough, and Sir William's vacant seat ? Gus stood
at the window and watched, for he had a great deal of
curiosity, with very keen eyes.

Alice and her mother kept apart for one night.
They said goodnight to each other hurriedly, the one
too much wounded to ask, the other too proud to offer,
her confidence. But when they had done this they had
reached the length of their respective tethers. Next
morning the girl stole into her mother's room before
any one was awake, and clinging about her, begged her
pardon — for what she did not say. And Lady Markham
kissed her and forgave her, though there was nothing to
forgive. Words after all are the poorest exponents of
meaning ; they knew a great deal better what it was
than if they had put it into words. And it was not till
long after this reunion that Lady Markham said, quite
accidentally, " Why did you not tell me Mr. Fairfax's
secret, Alice ? He seems to be much in earnest about
it, poor boy."

Said Alice, very seriously, " How could I speak to
you, mamma, about anything so — about anything that
I was not obliged to speak of, at such a time ? "

Oh, my dear, that is true, that is most true. But
it hurt me a little, for it made me feel as if — you were
keeping something from me."

We all like Mr. Fairfax," said Alice, courageously,
but it does not matter, does it, about his family ?
He was very good, very kind, at a time when we
needed help; but to tell you about his want of a
grandfather "

Feeling safe in the smile which such a want would
naturally call forth, Alice (rashly) ventured to meet her
mother's eyes. And then to her confusion, the former
accident repeated itself, notwithstanding every precaution.
It is very difficult indeed to take precautions
against such accidents. Once more an exasperating,
but presentable blush, of doubly died crimson, hot,
sudden, scorching, flamed over Alice's face.

Lady Markham saw it, and felt the shock thrill
through her again ; but she was wise and took no
notice. She shook her head. " I am not so sure
about that," she said. " It is always of consequence

to know to whom your friends belong. I wish — I

wish-but

what she was going to say — whether to wish fora
grandfather to Fairfax, or to wish that she had not
opened her house to him, could never be known ; for
just then Mrs. Martin opened the door with a little impatience
and annoyance, and begged to know whether
her lady was expecting again the young person who had
been at Markham some time ago — a young person who
insisted that Lady Markham would be sure to see her,
and of whom Mrs. Martin evidently did not at all
approve — by name Spears.

Lady Markham cast a hurried glance at Alice. It
was her turn now to blush. " You can bring her in,"
she said. Then a few words were hastily exchanged
between the mother and daughter. Alice seized upon
some needlework which lay by. Sheltered by that, she
drew her seat away towards the Window out of her
mother's immediate neighbourhood. Janet came in with
a free and familiar step. She was elated by the readiness
of her reception, the power of once more crowing
over the important and dignified Mrs. Martin, and with
something else which she was aware enhanced her own

position still more. She came quickly in, and, without
any of the timidity and awe of her first appearance, advanced
to Lady Markham with outstretched hand, and
a countenance covered with smiles ; but notwithstanding,
with instantaneous quickness noticed Alice, and felt
that to be thus made acquainted with Miss Markham
added another glory still. Was it not treating her as
one of the family ? When Janet saw this she determined
to sell her consent to become one of the family still more
dear.

How do you do, my lady ? " she said. " I thought
as father was coming to see Mr. Paul I might just as
well come too and see gourlay ship, and speak about
the business that is between you and me."

Here Janet, delighted to feel herself so entirely at
home, took a chair and drew it close to the table at
which Lady Markham had been seated. She put her
umbrella down against the table, and undid the fastening
of her mantle.

We ha-ve walked all the way from the station," she
said, with engaging ease, "and it was so hot."

Lady Markham did not know what to say ; the words
were taken out of her mouth. She seated herself also,

VOL. in. o

humbly, and looked at her visitor, who had made so
wonderful an advance in self-confidence since she saw
her first.

Your father — has come with you ? " she said.

'* He thinks it is me that has come with him, my
lady," said Janet. Then she looked pointedly at Alice
bending over her work against the window. " I may
speak before the young lady ? I would not wish what
IVe got to say to go any further — not out of the
family," she said.

"It is my daughter," said Lady Markham. 'malice,
this is the daughter of Mr. Spears. "

Janet smiled, and bowed her head graciously. She
was in a state of great suppressed elation and excitement.


"I don't need to ask," she said, ''my lady, if you
followed my advice ? "

Your advice ? "

About Sir Paul ; it answered very quick, didn't it ?
I thought that would bring him to his senses. Father
is as vexed ! he thinks it is all my fault, but I never
pretended different. A gentleman that has everything
he can set his face to, and a title, and a beautiful

property, why should he emigrate ? But now there is
something else that I've come to ask you about."

Do you mean that my son — has given up the idea ? "
Lady Markham could scarcely articulate the words.

Oh, yes, bless you, as soon as ever you let him know
that it would not make any difference. I knew very
well that was what he meant all along. What should
go abroad for, a gentleman with his fortune ? it was
all nonsense. And Lady Markham," said Janet,
solemnly, " it would be mean to leave him in the lurch,
I know, after all that ; but still, I've got myself to look
to. I don't understand what all this story is about a
new gentleman, and him, after all, not having anything.
I can't feel easy in my mind about it. I like Sir Paul
the best, and always will; but I've had another very
good offer. It's too serious to play fast and loose with,"
said Janet, gravely, " it's something as I must take or
leave. Now there is nobody but you, my lady, that
will tell me the truth. He is Sir Paul, ain't he ? he
has got the property ? I wouldn't take it upon me to
ask such questions if it wasn't that I am, so to speak,
one of the family. And as for father — I can't put no
confidence in what father says."

o 2

Alice got up hurriedly from her chair and threw
down her work ; it was a mere movement of impatience,
but to Janet every movement meant something. She
kept her eyes upon the young lady who might, for anything
she could tell, be in a conspiracy to keep the
truth from her.

"Father thinks of nothing but love," she said,
following Alice with her eyes, 'but there's more in
marriage than that. I can't trust in father to tell me
true."

'' What is it you want me to tell you ? " said Lady
Markham, trembling with eagerness.

She would have told her — almost anything that was
not directly false. She began to frame in her mind a
description of Paul's disinheritance, but she feared to
spoil her case by too great anxiety. As for Alice, she
stood by the window pale, speechless, indignant — too
wildly angry on Paul's account to perceive what her
mother saw so plainly, that here was a chance of escape
for Paul.

Well, just the truth, my lady," said Janet, ''if it is

true what folks are saying. I can't believe it's true.

You are Lady Markham, I never heard anything against

that, and he is your eldest. But they say he is not Sir
Paul and hasn't the property. I can't tell how that
can be."

"It is true, though," said Lady Markham, speaking
low ; even when there was an excellent use for it, it
was not easy to repeat all the wrongs that her son had
borne. " My son is not Sir Paul," she said, 'nor has
he the Markham estates. He has an elder brother who
has, inherited everything. This has only been quite
certain for two or three days. My boy — who had every
prospect of being rich — is now poor. That is very
grievous for him; but to those who love him," said the
indiscreet woman, her heart triumphing over her reason,
"he is not changed; he is all he ever was, and more."

'neither the property nor the title?" said Janet,
with a blank countenance. "Poor instead of heinrich
? Oh, it is not a thing to put up with — it is not
to be borne ! But I can't see how it can be," she cried ;
"poor instead of rich I If it wasn't for one or two
things, I should think it was a plot to disgust me — to
separate him and me."

But," said Lady Markham — she had never perhaps
in her life before spoken with the cold energy of a

taunt, with that desperate cain of severity, yet trembling
of suspense — "that is in your own hands, Miss
Spears. If you love him, no one can separate him
from you."

It was all she could do to get out the words ; her
breath went in the tumult of her heart.

Oh — love him ! " The trouble and disappointment
on Janet's face were quite genuine ; every line in her
countenance fell. " You know as well as I do that's
not everything. Lady Markham. You may like a man
well enough ; but when you were just thinking that all
was settled, and everything as you could wish — and to
find as he has nothing — not even the Sir to his name !
Oh, it's too bad — it's too bad — it's cruel ! I would not
believe father, and I can hardly believe you."

It is true, however," Lady Markham said.

She watched the girl with a keenness of contempt,
yet a breathless gasp of hope — emotions more intense
than she had almost ever known before. She was
fighting for her son's deliverance — she who had delivered
him into the toils. As for Alice, she stood with
her face pressed against the window, and her hands upon
her ears. She did not want either to hear or to see.

Well ! " said Janet, with a long breath, too deep fora
sigh. " I am glad I came," she added after a moment ;
I would never have believed it, never ! And I'm sure
I am sorry for him — very, very sorry. After giving up
the colony for my sake, and all ! But I could not be
expected to ruin all my prospects, could I, my lady?
And me that had set my heart on being Lady Markham
like you ! " she cried, clasping her hands. This was a
bitter reflection to Janet ; her eyes filled with tears.
I don't know how I can face him to say ' No ' to him,"
she went on ; " he will take it so unkind. But if you
consider that I have another offer — a very good offer —
plenty of money, aLd no need for me to trouble my
head about anything. That would be different — very
different from anybody that married Mr. Paul now."

Very different, Miss Spears. My son's wife would
be a poor woman; she would have to struggle with
poverty and care. And it would be all the worse
because he is not used to poverty ; indeed, he could not
marry — he ha no money at all. She would have to
wait for years and years."

"Ob, it's too bad — it's too bad — it's cruel ! " cried
Janet once more. Then she relapsed into a grateful

sense of her escape. " But I am very glad I came. I
never would have believed it from any one but you.
Oh, dear, oh, dear ! " cried Janet again, " what a downfall
for him, poor young gentleman — and he that was
always so proud ! I won't say nothing to him, Lady
Markham, not to make him feel it more. I will give
out that I only came with father, and to see you, and
ask you if you will recommend our shop. Now that all
this is settled, I may as well tell you that I've almost
quite made up my mind to marry Mother Lister, the
new partner at our shop. He is a French gentleman,
but he's very well off, and very clever in the business.
T think I cannot do better than take him," said Janet,
adding with a sigh the emphatic monosyllable, " now'"

Notwithstanding, however, that this was so comfortably
settled, Janet turned round upon Lady Markham,
who was going down stairs with her to make sure
that Paul had no hankering after this sensible young
woman, and to keep the government of the crisis
generally in her own hands. Janet turned round upon
her as they were going out of the room.

But he will have your money ? " she said.

His sisters," said Lady Markham, with a little gasp,

for she had not expected this assault, and was not
prepared for it — "his sisters," she said "will have my
money."

Janet looked at her searching ly, and then, convinced
at last, went slowly down stairs. She hai lost something.
Never more was she likely to have the chance of
being my lady — never would she strike awe into the
bosoms of the servants who had looked so suspiciously
on her by returning as young Lady Markham. On the
other hand, there was a satisfaction in being able to see
her own way clear before her. She was very thoughtful,
but she was not dissatisfied with her morning's work.
Supposing she had gone so far as to marry Paul Markham,
a gentleman (she used the word now in her tli oughts as
an expression of contempt) without a penny ! Janet
shivered at the thought. Instead of that, she would
step at once into a good house with a cook and a housemaid,
and everything handsome about her. She was
very glad that she had come to Lady Markham and
insisted on knowing the truth.

As for Lady Markham, she was still quivering with
the conflict out of which she had come victorious. But
triumph was in her heart. She could afford now to be

magnanimous. " You went away without any refreshment
the last time you were here," she said graciously, as
she followed her visitor down stairs ; '' but you must take
some luncheon with us to-day, your father and you."

Oh, thank you, my lady," Janet cried, forgetting
her dignity. This of itself almost repaid her for giving
up Paul.

Lady Markham did not forget Janet's request to seethe
house, which had been so boldly made when the
girl had thought herself Paul's future wife. She took
her into the great drawing-room with a little gleam of
malicious pleasure, to show her what she had lost, and
watched her bewildered admiration and awe. By this
time the happiness of knowing that her son was not
going to forsake her had begun to diffuse itself through
Lady Markham's being like a heavenly balsam, soothing
all her troubles. When they met going into the diningroom
as the luncheon-bell rang, she put her hand
within his arm, holding it close to her side for one
moment of indulgence.

You are not going away," she said in his ear.
Thank God ! Oh, why did you not make me happy
sooner — why did you not tell me, Paul ? "

'' Going away," lie said perplexed, '' of course I am
going away." And then her real meaning crossed him.
What, with Spears ? " he said. " There has not been
any thought of that for many a day."

Spears talked little at this meal ; he was full of the
discouragement and mournful anger of disappointment.
Up to the last moment he had hoped that Paul would
change his mind — perhaps on the ground of his
supposed love for Janet, if nothing else. But Paul had
said nothing about Janet. He did not understand it,
but it made his heart sore. The rest of the party
were embarrassed enough, except Gus, who still thought
this man with the heavy brows was an electioneering
agent yet did not like to tackle him much, lest he should
show his own ignorance of English policy — f ' Decidedly
I must read the papers and form opinions," Gus said to
himself) ; and Janet, who, seated at this beautiful table,
with the flowers on it and all the sparkling glass and
silver, and Charles waiting behind her chair, was
sparkling with delight and pride. She was seated by
the side of Sir Augustus, and spoke to him, calling him
by that name. The dishes which were handed to lier hy
the solemn assiduity of Mr. Brown were food for the gods.

she thought, though they were simple enough. She made
notes of everything for her own future guidance. It was
just possible, M. Lister had said, that he might keep a
page to wait upon his wife ; thus the glory of a " manservant
" might still be hers. In imagination she framed
her life on the model of Markham ; and so full was her
mind of these thoughts that Janet scarcely noticed Paul,
who, on his side, paid no attention to her. As for
Lady Markham, she was the soul of the party. She
almost forgot her recent sorrow, and the sight of Sir
Augustus at the other end of the table did not subdue
her as usual. She asked Spears questions about his
journey with the very wantonness of relief — that
journey which she had shuddered to hear named,
which had overshadowed her mind night and day was
like a dead lion to her ; she could smile at it now.

Ay, my lady, that's how it's going to end," said
Spears. " I don't say that it's the way I could have
wished. There was a time when the thought of
new soil and a fresh start was like a new life to me.
But perhaps it's only because the time is so close, and a
crisis has something in it that makes you think. Ita
kind of dying, though it's a kind of new living too.

Everything is like that. I suppose — one state ends and
the other begins. We don't know what we are going
to, but we know what we're giving np. Paul there —
you see he has changed his mind. He had a right to
change his mind if he liked — I am saying nothing
against it. But that's another sort of dying to me."

Oh, Mr. Spears, do not say so. To me it is new
life. Did not I tell you once, if we were in trouble, if
we needed him to stand by us (God knows I little
thought how soon it would come true !), that my boy
would never forsake his family and his position then ?
Paul might have left us prosperous," said his mother
with tears in her eyes, " but he would never leave us in
sorrow and trouble. Mr. Spears, I told you so."

And who can doubt that she spoke (and by this time
felt) as if her confidence in Paul had never for a
moment flagged, but had always been determined and
certain as now ?

And Spears looked at her with the respect of a
generous foe who owned himself vanquished. " And so
you did," he said. " I remember it all now. My lady,
you knew better — you were wiser than I."

Oh, not wiser," she said, still magnanimous ; " but it

stands to reason that I should know my own boy better
than you."

Again he looked at her, respectful, surprised, half
convinced ; perhaps it was so. After all his pride and
sense of power, perhaps it was true that the simplest
might know better than he. He let a great sigh escape
from his breast, and rose in his abstraction from the
table, without waiting for the mistress of the house,
which it was usually part of his careful politeness
to do.

We must be going," he said ; " our hours are
numbered. Good-bye, my Lady Markham ; you area
woman that would have been a stronghold to us in
my class. I am glad I ever knew one like you ; though
you will not say the same of me."

Do not say that, Mr. Spears," said Lady Markham
again. It was true she had often been disposed to
curse his name ; and yet she would have said as he
had said — she was glad she had ever known one like
him. She put out her hand to him with a genuine
impulse of friendship, and did not wince even when
it was engulfed and grasped as in a vice by his
strong and resolute hand.

God bless you, my lady," he said, looking at her
with a little moisture coming by hard pressure into
the corners of his eyes.

"And God bless you too, Mr. Spears — my friend,"
she said with a hesitation that almost made the words
more expressive, and her long eyelashes suddenly grew
all bedewed and dewy, and shone with tears. The
demagogue wrung the delicate hand of the great lady,
and strode away out of the house, paying no attention
to the calls of his daughter, who was not quite ready
to follow him. Paul rose too, and accompanied them
silently down the avenue. Janet talked a little,
chiefly to assure her father there was no hurry, and
to upbraid him with hurrying her away. At
the gate Spears turned round and took Paul by the
hands.

Come no further," he said. " She knew better than
L She said you would never forsake your post, and I
don't deny your post is here. I am glad to be convinced
of it, lad, for it lets me think well of you, and better
than ever. It goes against me to say it, Paul ; but if
your heart melts to me after I am gone, you may tell
yourself Spears was the happier to think it was your

duty that kept you after all. If you should never hear
of me again "

But I shall hear of you again, and often," cried
Paul, with an emotion he had never anticipated,
grasping the other's hand.

God knows," said Spears ; " but I'm glad I came.
Good-bye."

And again he strode away, leaving Janet to follow,
and Paul standing looking after him, with a sudden
pang in his heart.

Fairfax was coming along the road very seriously —
coming to know his fate too. He paused, surprised, at
the sight of the pair. But Spears took little notice of
Fairfax. He gave him a grasp of his hand in passing,
and said,' " Good-bye, my lad," with a clear voice. The
young man stopped for a moment to look after them ;
then went on to where Paul was standing, somewhat
dreamily, looking after them too.

1 feel as if I had lost a friend," Paul said, "though
he has done me more harm than good, I suppose. He
has brought me back my money, Fairfax; he will not
take a penny from me ; and that will be all the worse
for him among those others. What can I do ? "

Leave it to me," said Fairfax — it was a way he
had ; " and good-bye to an honest soul. I am glad that
ugly place in Clerkenwell is not the last place I have
seen him in."

Paul's countenance darkened. " I wish you had not
reminded me of that," he said.

And they walked up to the house together, saying
little more. Fairfax had but little leisure to think of
Spears. He was going to his own trial, and he did not
know how he was to come out of it. The court had sat
upon his case for the last twenty-four hours, and no
doubt had come to a final decision. It would have been
an important subject indeed which could have done
more than touch the edge of his anxious mind. Paul
left him in the hall; and Mr. Brown, divining that
something more was going on, and having, as has
been said, a well-founded and favourable estimate
of Fairfax, for reasons of his own, showed him with
great solemnity into the sanctuary where Lady Markham
sat alone. She did 'not rise to meet him, but
smiled, and held out her left hand to him, with the
pretty French fashion of acknowledging intimacy*
It was a good sign. He went up very eagerly to

VOL. IIL P

the beautiful, kind woman, in whose hands he felt
was his fate.

"You find me quite emotions," she said, "parting
from Mr. Spears. Yes, you may smile — but I was more
like crying. I am sure he is a good man, though he
may be — led astray."

"He is not led astray," said Fairfax; but then he
remembered that it was not his business to plead any
cause but his own. He looked at her wistfully, though
there was always that under-gleam of humour in his
eyes. " I have come up for sentence. Lady Markham,"
he said.

She smiled. " The sentence will not be very severe ;
there is not much harm done."

This was far worse than any severity could be. His
countenance fell, sudden despondency filled his heart;
and now the humour fled altogether from the mournful
eyes with which he looked up into his judge's face.

This time Lady Markham almost laughed. " You do
not seem pleased to hear it," she said. " I thought it
might ease your mind."

Oh, Lady Markham do not jeer at me ! You may
think it does not matter, but to me "

'* It is sport to me, but death to you ? " she said ; *' is
that what you would say ? No, Mr. Fairfax — no ; not
so bad as that. And you must pardon me if I am hght-
minded. I am happy. Paul is not going with those
mad people; he is safe; he is free."

*'T am very glad," said Fairfax, "but may I say that
Paul is irrelevant just now ? I have come up for my

sentence. Is it to be banishment, or is it ? Ah,

Lady Markham, tell me — is there any hope ? "

'' Mr. Fairfax," she said, with great gravity, '' you
ask me for leave to get my Alice from me, if you can ;
and then you tell me you are nobody, of no family, with
no connections. Pardon me ; my only informant in
yourself"

'rit is true — quite true."

'then," she said, and paused, "judge for me, Mr.
Fairfax, what can I say ? "

He made no reply, and there was an interval of
silence, which was very heavy, very painful to Lady
Markham's kind heart. She felt compelled to speak,
because of that stillness of expectation which made the
moment tragical.

"If," she said, faltering, "there had been time

p 2

enough for real love to take possession of you — both of
you — if it had come to that, that you could not be
parted, it would be a different matter, Mr. Fairfax ; but
you have known each other so short a time, the plant
cannot have very deep roots. Cannot you be brave, and
pluck it up, and bear the wrench ? In the end, perhaps,
it would be better for you both."

'better!" he cried, with a bitterness never heard
before in his voice.

Mr. Fairfax, God knows I do not want to be hard
upon you. My poor boy, I am fond of you," she said,
with a sudden, tender impulse ; '' but what can I say ?
A man who tells me he is obscure and humble, and nota
match for her — am I to give my Alice up to a
struggling, harassed life ? "

There is one thing I forgot to say, Lady Markham.
It is of no consequence ; it does not affect the question
one way or another. Still, perhaps I ought to tell you.
It is that I am ridiculously, odiously, abominably "

What ? " she said, in alarm.

Rich ! " cried the young man. '* You know the
worst of me now."

After these events an interval of great quiet
occurred at Markham. Paul went to town, where he
was understood to be reading for the bar, like most
other young men, or preparing for a public office —
opinions being divided as to which it was. Naturally
Sir William Markham's son found no difficulty in getting
any opening into life which the mania of examination
permitted. Indeed there were friends of his father's
very anxious to get him into parliament, and '' push him
on " into the higher branches of the public service ; but
he had not yet sufficiently recovered from the rending
and tearing of the past to make this possible. He was
inseparable from one of his Oxford comrades, a young
fellow whom nobody knew, a young Croesus, the son of
some City man, who had judiciously died and left him.

unencumbered by any vulgar relations, with an immense
fortune. It already began to be said by people who
saw the young men together, that no doubt Lady
Markham would be wise enough to secure this fine
fortune for Alice ; but at present, of course, in the first
blackness of their mourning, nothing could be definitely
arranged on this subject. Paul lived in London, at first
moodily enough, resenting the great harm that had
been done him, but afterwards not so badly on the
whole. He had lost a great deal certainly, but not
anything that takes the comfort out of actual life. He
was as well lodged, and had his wants as comfortably
supplied as if he had been Sir Paul Markham. Hard
as his reverses had been upon him, they had not plunged
him into privations, and indeed it is possible that young
Paul in a public office would have as much real
enjoyment of his life as any landed baronet or county
magnate, perhaps more ; but then for Paul, if he
wanted to " settle," for Paul married and middle-aged,
the case would be very different; unless indeed he
married money, which he showed very little inclination
to do.

Spears sailed in the end of October with his younger

daiioliters, Janet having first been married with much
solemnity to her master at the shop, who gave her a
very gorgeous house, with more gilding about it than
any house in the neighbourhood, and dressed her so that
she was a sight to see. Her father never pretended to
understand the history of the tie which had been formed,
he could not tell how, and broken in the same mysterious
way. He had a vague consciousness that he ought to
have done or said something in the matter, but how was
he to do it ? And all is well that ends well. Before
the emigrants sailed, Fairfax appeared suddenly and
renewed his anxious desire to take those shares in the
undertaking which Spears had not permitted Paul to
retain. Fairfax protested that it was as a speculation
he did it, and that nowhere could he find a better way
of investing his money. And though Spears was only
half deceived, he was at the same time, in spite of
himself, elated by this profession of confidence, which
restored the amour-propre which had been so deeply
wounded, and at the same time restored himself, as the
controller of so large an amount of capital, to his right
place among the adventurers. He would not have
accepted a farthing from Paul, but from that easy-going

fellow Fairfax all seemed so natural ! Whatever happened
he would not mind ; but there could be little
doubt that the estimate thus formed was entirely true.

Thus quiet fell upon Markham with the winter mists
and rains. It was not cheerful there in the midst of
the wet woods, when the dark weather closed in
without any of the hospitalities and wholesome country
diversions which make winter bright. Their sorrow and
their mourning only began to reign supreme when all
the agitation was stilled, and Paul had settled into his
strangely-changed existence, and Sir Augustus had
become the master of the house. The only variety the
family had was in a sudden visit from the Lennys, husband
and wife, who had only heard of all that had
passed on her return from a round of the cheap places
on the Continent, which was their way of living when
they had no visits to make. Mrs. Lenny knew, what so
few of us know, where these cheap places were, and had
eaten funny foreign dinners, and knew how to choose
what was the best in them, in many an out-of-the-way
corner. They had been in Germany and Switzerland,
appearing now and then at a watering-place, as a seal
comes to the surface to take breath. And it was not

till nearly Christmas that they heard all that had
happened. Mrs. Lenny came and threw herself upon
Lady Markham's shoulder and wept. *' If I had known,
my dear lady, if I had known the trouble that was
coming on your dear family through me and mine ! " the
good woman said. As for Colonel Lenny, he could not
speak to Lady Markham, but went off with the boys,
who were at home for the holidays, after one silent
grasp of her hand ; but his wife talked and cried, and
cried and talked all the afternoon through.

And don't blame poor Will Markham more than you
can help," she said. " It was a baby when he left the
island, and what does a young man think of a baby ?
It doesn't seem to count at all. And then my brother
had adopted the little thing. It didn't seem as if it
belonged to him."

This appeal to her on behalf of her own husband,
wounded Lady Markham almost as much as blame.

I understand how it was," she replied with proud
stoicism ; though even at that moment, in hearing him
thus defended, there glanced across Lady Markham's
mind a sense of the wrong he had done which was
almost intolerable to her. Thus the mind works by

contradiction, seeing most distinctly that which it is
called upon not to see. Afterwards, Mrs. Lenny told
her the whole story of Gus's young mother, and her
love and death, which she listened to with a strange
feeling that she herself was the girl who was being
talked of, who had died so young.

He was no better than a lad himself," Mrs. Lenny
said. " I don't doubt that it was like a dream to him.
When Lenny and I talked to him first he did not seem
to understand about the boy."

You talked to him then — about — his son ? "
'that was what we came for, surely," said Mrs.
Lenny, " that was what we came for. We knew
nothing about you, my dear lady, and we didn't know
there was a family. When I heard of your fine young
gentleman that was to be the heir, — God bless him ! —
you might have knocked me down with a straw ; and I
told Will he should make a clean breast of it. But do
you think a man, and a great statesman, would take a
woman's advice ? They think they know better, and he
would not. He thought nothing would ever happen,
poor Will ! And here it's come upon you like a tempest,
without a word of warning."

We will say no more about it," said Lady Markham.

If she could she would have obliterated the story from
everybody's memory; instead of dwelling upon her
wrongs it was her pride to ignore them. It was
intolerable to her to think that all the world of her
acquaintance must have discussed her and her husband,
and all that had happened, as Mrs. Lenny, with the best of
intentions and the kindest of thoughts, was doing. She
put a stop to the conversation pointedly, leading her
companion to other subjects, and though she was more
kind to them than ever, and treated those kind and
innocent Bohemians as if, Mrs. Lenny said, they had
been the governor and his lady, she did not encourage
any return to this subject. As for Gus, though he had
scarcely any recollection of them, he was very glad to
see these relations, who knew so much more about him
than any of his family did. Colonel Lenny was a godsend
to him in the dark winter days. He could hardly
make up his mind to let them go. But the Lennys
were too much accustomed to wandering, and too
determined, whatever might be wanting to them, that a
little amusement never should be wanting, to relish the
gloom of Markham in its mourning. When they went

away, Mrs. Lenny whispered a solemn intimation, of
which it was difficult to say whether it was a warning ora
prophecy, into Lady Markham's ear. " He'll not
stand it long," she said. Her note was half melancholy,
half congratulatory, and she nodded and shook her
head alternately, looking back as the carriage went
down the avenue upon the group at the great door.
Lady Markham, with a shawl round her, was as fair in
her matronly beauty as ever, though a little paler than
of old. She was not afraid of the chill, but stood there
waving her hand to her departing guests till they were
out of sight. But Sir Gus withdrew shivering to his
fire, which roared up the chimney night and day, and
could never be made big enough to please him. He
could not understand what pleasure it could be to anyone
to encounter that chill air, laden with moisture, out
of doors.

The fact was that the English winter was a terrible
experience for Sir Gus. He had not contemplated anything
so unlike all that he had previously known. He
had heard of it, of course, and knew that there was
cold to encounter such as he had never felt before, but
he was not aware what were the consequences of that

cold, either mental or bodily. He shrank visibly in the
midst of his wrappings, and grew leaner and browner
as the year went on, and sat shivering close by his great
fire when the boys came in glowing with exercise, and
the little girls, his favourites, with brilliant roses of
winter on their cheeks. '' Come out, come out, and
you will get warm ! " they all cried ; but he would not
leave his fire. A man more out of place in an English
country-house in a severe winter could not be. Gus
could do nothing that the other gentlemen did. He
neither hunted nor shot, nor even walked or rode. He
did not understand English law or customs, to occupy
himself with the duties of a magistrate ; he did not
care about farming; hee knew nothing about the preserving
of the game, or even the care of the woods.
He was fretful when the agent or his clerk came to
consult him on any of these subjects. Go out and look
at the timber ! he only wanted more to burn, to have
better and better fires.

By this time the family at Markham had almost
begun to forget that Gus was an intruder. There was
no more question of Lady Markham's removal to the
dower-house. Nothing had been said about it by one

or the other, but it had been quietly, practically laid
aside, as a visionary scheme impossible in the circumstances.
They all lived together calmly, monotonously,
in perfect family understanding. Even Alice, who
stood out so long against him, had learned to accept
Gus, The little girls made him their slave ; he was
always ready to do anything they wanted, to take them
wherever they' pleased. But life got to be very heavy
upon Gus's hands as these winter days went on. He
had nothing to do ; he did not even read — that resource
of the unoccupied ; he had no letters to write, or
business to do like his father, and he soon beo^an to
hate the library which had been appropriated to him,
notwithstanding its huge fireplace. He was more at
home in the soft brightness of the drawing-room, with
velvet curtains drawn round him, and the lights reflected
in the mirrors and sparkling on the pretty china
and ornaments. The ladies found him in their territories
more than in his own. He interrupted nothing,
but notwithstanding, there, as everywhere, there was
nothing for him to do. It was only now and then, not
once a day at the most, that there was a skein of silk
or of wool to hold for some one. Sometimes he would

volunteer to read aloud, but he soon tired of that. He
bore this want of occupation very well on the whole,
sitting buried in the big bamboo chair, which he had
filled with soft cushions, at the corner of the fire in the
drawing-room, looking on at all that was doing, and
more interested in the needlework than those who
worked at it. Poor little gentleman ! Sir Gus did not
even care for the newspapers ; he looked at the little
paragraphs of general interest, but turned with a
grimace from the long reports of the debates. " What
good does all that do me ? " he said, when Lady Markham,
who was somewhat horrified by his indifference,
endeavoured to rouse him to a sense of his duties.

But it concerns the country," she would say, 'rand
few people have a greater stake in the country."

"That is how Paul would have felt," said Sir Gus;
''he would have read all these speeches; he would have
understood everything that is said. It would have

mattered to him "

Indeed it matters to us all," said Lady Markham,
with grave dignity. Of all people in the world to
listen while a parliamentary debate is talked of with
contempt, the wife of a man who was once a Cabinet

minister is the last — and all the more if her husband
held but a secondary place. She was half-offended and
half-shocked; but Sir Gus could not see the error of
his ways. He got all the picture-papers, which he
enjoyed along with Bell and Marie, and sent to the
boys after, when they were at school. He cared nothing
about the game, except to eat it when it was set before
him. From morn to chilly eve he would sit by that
fire, and note everything that happened. Not a letter
arrived but he was there to see how it was received,
and what was in it. Lady Markham declared that had
she heard anywhere else, or read in a book, of a man
who was always in the drawing-room, who had no duties
of his own, and who sat and watched everything, the
situation would have seemed intolerable. But it was
not so intolerable in reality. They got used, at last, to
the big bamboo chair and its inhabitant ; they got used
to his comments. There was no harm in Mr. Gus ; but
life was hard upon him. Everybody else was doing
something — even the little girls in the school-room
were learning their lessons — but he, burying himself in
the cushions of his chair, showing nothing out of it but
two little brown hands, twirling a paper-knife, or a

pencil, or anything else lie had got hold of, had nothing
to do. Sometimes he would get up and walk to
the window. When it was fine it would give him much
pleasure to watch the birds collecting about the bread-crumbs,
which he insisted on scattering everywhere.

"There is a lazy one, like me," he would say; and a
little pert robin redbreast, a sort of little almoner, who
came and superintended the giving away of these
charities, gave Sir Gus the greatest amusement. But
the people who came to call were not equally amusing.
When a man came, he expected Sir Gus to take an
interest in the debates, or in the places where the
hounds met, and stared, when he knew that Gus, like
Gallo, cared for none of these things. And he was not
even interested in the parish. When Dolly Stainforth
brought up a report of some village catastrophe, Sir
Gus was not the one who responded with the greatest
liberality. He was not used to have very much money
to spare, and he was careful of it. It was not that he
loved money, but he had not the habit of spending it
lavishly, as we foolish people have. Sometimes he
would drive out in a close carriage, to the great
contempt of everybody concerned.

VOL. III. Q

'' The new master, he he a muff," the people in the
porter's lodge said. Even from that mild exercise,
however, he was glad to come in, shivering, and call
Brown to put on a great many more coals in the
fire. The house was full of schemes for warming it
more effectually. Hot water, hot air — all kinds of
expedients ; and never had so much fuel been used in
Markham in the memory of man.

He will ruin my lady in coals," Brown said ; but
Sir Gus did not take this into consideration. It was
about the greatest pleasure he had in the good fortune
which was to make him so happy.

In February there came, as there sometimes comes,
a spell of bright weather — a few soft, spring-like days
and the poor little gentleman from the tropics
brightened along with the crocuses. '' It is over at
last," he said, in beatific self-delusion ; and he was
persuaded to pay a visit to town when Parliament was
on the point of meeting, and the general tuning up for
the great concert of the season had begun to begin.
Here Sir Gus was confided to the charge of Fairfax,
who took him into his own house, and roasted him over
huge fires, and made little dinners for him, collecting

other tropical persons to meet him. But very soon
Sir Gus found out that it was not over. He found out
that not to be interested in the debates, nor in society,
nor in books and pictures, and, above all, not to " know
people," were sad drawbacks to life in London. He
sat dumb while his companions talked of meeting So-and-so
at Lord What-d'ye-call-'em's, and of the 
intimacy — " Don't you know ? " — between
Sir Robert and Lady John. He stared at the talkers,
the poor little foreigner ! and tired even of Fairfax's
big fires. The skies that hang so low over the London
streets, the rain and muddy ways, or the east wind that
parched them into whiteness, made his very soul
shrink. That was not at all a successful experiment.
He went back on Lady Markham's hands in March,
having ensconced himself now in a coat lined with
sables, which buried him still more completely than the
big chair.

"England is a very fine place," he said, with his
teeth chattering, as he came in, out of a boisterous
March wind, which carried upon it bushels of that dust
that is worth a king's ransom. '* It is a very fine place
but — only I don't seem to agree with it." But that

Q 2

summer must certainly come some time — and spring
was certainly come at this period, though Gus did not
recognise that pleasant season in its English garb —
they must all have given in altogether. But when the
primroses appeared in the woods Sir Gus began to get
back a little of his courage. Fortunately the summer
opened brightly, promising to be as warm and genial as
the winter had been severe ; and by degrees the little
gentleman let his fires go down, and left off his furs.
Who can doubt that the winter had been very long at
Markham for the whole household ? They were living
alone in their mourning, and Paul, though only in
London, was separated from them, and in a state of
great uncertainty and doubtful comfort. And other
visitors were banished too. But when the spring came
back the household awoke, and broke the bonds of
gloom. Even Lady Markham began to smile naturally
upon her children — not with the smile of duty put on
for their advantage, but with a little natural rising of
the clouds. And Alice brightened insensibly, knowing
that " they " were to come for Easter ; that is, Paul
and 'one of his friends." Nothing had 'been said to
Alice" upon any subject that was likely to agitate

her prematurely, but it was pleasant to look forward
to that visit from Paul and his friend — from which fact
it may be divined that Lady Markham had been not
unfavourably moved by the last item in Fairfax's
confession.

Thus summer came again, communicating brightness ;
and Sir Gus began to live again, and to believe that
it might be possible to put up with England after all.

That summer was as bright as the winter had been
cold. The hot weather came on in May, and the
country about Markham brightened into a perfect
paradise of foliage and blossom. Sir Gus came to life ;
he began to show himself in the country, to move
about, to accept the invitations which were given to
him. And it cannot be denied that his thoughts and
plans were much modified after he had made acquaintance
with the county and began to feel that people
were inclined to pay him a great deal of attention. He
had wanted nothing better at first than to be received
as a member of Lady Markham's family, to adopt, as
it were, his brothers and sisters, and to make them as
little conscious as possible of the change he had brought
into their life. He had promised that he would

never marry, nor do anything to spoil Paul's prospects
further. But before the summer was over his views in
this respect had sensibly modified. He began to think
that perhaps the length and dreariness of the winter
had been partly owing to the fact that Lady Markham
and her children were less satisfactory than a wife and
children of his own. Why should he (after all) sacrifice
himself to serve Paul ? He was not old, whatever
those arrogant young people might think ; and probably
it was in this way that happiness might come to him.
Paul would no doubt get on very well in society ; he
would marry well, and his younger son's portion was
not contemptible ; there really seemed no reason why
his elder brother should sacrifice himself on Paul's
account. And gradually there dawned upon him an
idea that before winter came on again he might have
some one belonging to him who should be his very own.
Gus dined out very solemnly by himself, making
acquaintance with his neighbours during the Easter
recess, and when the great people of the neighbourhood
came back to the country after the season ; and did not
scorn the tables of the less great who remained in th
country all the year round. He was not exclusive.

The less great houses were still great enough for Gus.
He liked to go to the Rectory, where Mr. Stainforth, who
was a politic old man, often invited him ; and indeed,
Sir Augustus, who everybody said was so exceedingly
simple and unpretentious, became quite popular in the
district where at first everybody had been against him
as an intruder. Though it was no less hard upon Paul
than before, the new heir was pardoned in the county
because of his adoption of the family and his kindness
and genuine humility. There could not be any harm
in him, people said, when he was so good to the
children, when he sought so persistently the friendship
of his stepmother, and endeavoured to make everything
pleasant for her.

Then it became very evident that Sir Gus, though
not so young as he once was, was still marriageable and
likely to marry, which naturally still further increased
his popularity ; and as, instead of attempting any
stratagems of self-defence, he was but too eager to put
himself into the society of young ladies, and showed
unequivocal signs of regarding them with the eye of a
purchaser, it was natural that the elder ladies should
accept. this challenge, and on their parts do what they

could to make him acquainted with the stores the
county possessed. Women do not give themselves to
this business of settling marriages in England with the
candour and honesty that prevail in other countries.
The work is stealthy and unacknowledged, but it is
too natural and too just not to be done with more or
less vigour ; and the county was not less active than
other counties. "Poor Paul ! " some people said, who
had at first received the new baronet as a merely temporary
holder of the title and estates — one who,
according to a legend dear to the popular mind, had
bound himself not to do anything towards the achievement
of an heir ; but by and by they said, '' Poor Sir
Gus ! " and could see no reason in the world why
he should sacrifice himself This was a little after
the time when he had himself come to the same
conclusion.

When all the families began to return at the end of
July, he was asked everywhere. Mourning is not for a
man a very rigid bond, and it was now nearly a year
since Sir William died, so that there was nothing to
restrain him ; indeed there were some who said that
Lady Markham was too punctilious in keeping Alice at

home, never letting her be seen anywhere — a girl who
really ought to marry, now that the family were in so
changed a position. Sir Gus went a great deal to
Westland Towers, where there had never been so many
parties before — garden parties, archery meetings, competitions
at lawn-tennis, to which the entire county was
convoked ; and at all these parties there was no more
favoured guest than Gus. This was a great change,
and pleased him much. At " home " he was not much
more than put up with. They had come to like him,
and they had always been very kind to him; but he
had been an intruder, and he had banished the son of
the house, and it was not to be supposed that mortal
forbearance should go so far as to admire and honour
him as the chief person in the household, even though
he was its nominal head. When he went elsewhere
Gus was made more of than at Markham, and at the
Towers he felt the full force of his own position. His
sayings were listened for, his jokes were laughed at,
and he himself was followed by judicious flattery. All
his little eccentricities were allowed and approved, his
light clothes extolled as the most convenient garments
in the world, and his distaste for sport and

the winter amusements of country life sanctioned and
approved.

How men of refined habits can do it has always
been a mystery to me," said Lady Westland.

You forget, mamma, that a taste for bloodshed is
one of the most refined tastes in the world," said Ada,
who was herself fond of hunting when she had a chance,
and never was better pleased than when she could lunch
with a shooting party at the cover-side. Ada made a
grimace behind Gus's back, and said " Little monster ! "
to the other young ladies.

"Ah, poor Paul ! We used to see so much of him,"
she said, " when he was the man, poor fellow, and no
one had ever heard of this little Creole. But parents
are nothing if not prudent," Miss Westland added;
'rand now the tropics are in the ascendant, and poor
Paul is nowhere. What can one do ? " she said with a
shrug of her shoulders up to her ears.

Dolly Stainforth, who was of the party, but not old
enough or important enough to say anything, grew pale
with righteous indignation. She was very well aware
that Paul had never 'seen much" of the family at
Westland Towers : but that they should now pretend to

hold him at arm's length stung her to the heart. This
took place at a garden party, and the explanation about
Paul had been made in the midst of a great many
people of the neighbourhood, who had all been very
sorry for Paul in their day, yet were all beginning now
to turn towards the new-risen sun. Dolly had turned
her back upon them, and gone off by herself in bitterly-suppressed
indignation, sore and wounded, though not
for her own sake, when she encountered Sir Gus, who
had spied her in a turning of the shrubbery. George
Westland had spied her too, but had been stopped by
his mother on his way to her, and might be seen in the
distance standing gloomily on the outskirts of a group
of notables, with whom he was supposed to be ingratiating
himself, gazing towards the mosque in which
the object of his affections had disappeared.

What is the matter, Miss Dolly ? " Sir Gus had said.

Oh, nothing. I was not crying," Dolly said, with a
sob. " I am too indignant to cry. It is the horridness
of people," she cried with an outburst of wrath and
grief Sir Gus was distressed. He did not like to see
any one cry, much less this dainty little creature, who
was almost his first acquaintance in the place.

"Don't," he said, touching her shoulder lightly with
his brown hand. " Whatever it is it cannot be worth
crying about. None of them can do any harm to

you."

Harm to me ! I wish they could," said Dolly ;
"that would not matter much. But don't believe
them, don't you believe them : a little while ago they
were all for Paul — nobody was so nice as Paul — and
now it is all you, and Paul, they say, is nowhere. Do
you think it is like a lady to say that poor Paul is
nowhere,' only because he has lost his property, and
you have got it ? " cried Dolly, turning with fury, which
it was difficult to restrain, upon the poor little baronet.
He changed colour : of course he knew that it was his
position, and not any special gifts of his own, which
recommended him ; yet he did not like the thought.

That is not my fault, Miss Dolly," he said. " You
should not be unjust ; though it is your favourite who
has been the loser, you ought not to be unjust, for I
have nothing more than what is my right."

Oh, Sir Augustus," said Dolly, alarmed by her own
vehemence, " it was not you I meant. You have
always been kind. It was those horrid people who

think of nothing but who has the money. And then,
you know' she said, turning her tearful eyes upon him,
I have known them all my life — and I can't bear to
hear them speak so of Paul."

And you can't bear me, I suppose, for putting this
Paul of yours out of his place ? " Gus said.

^' No, indeed I don't blame you. A woman might
have given it up, but it is not your fault if you are
different from a woman — all men are," said Dolly,
shaking her head. " When one knows as much about
a village as I do, one soon finds out that."

'' I suppose you think the women are better than the
men," said Sir Gas, shaking his head too.

''I am for my own side," said Dolly promptly, her
tears drying up in the impulse of war.; 'but I did not
mean that," she added, 'only different. Men and
women are not good — or nasty — in the same way. I
don't suppose — you — could have done anything but
what you did."

I don't think I could," said Sir Gus, briefly.

"But the people here," said Dolly, "oh, the people
here ! " She stamped her foot upon the ground in her
impatience and indignation ; but when he would have

pursued the subject, Dolly became prudent, and stopped
short. She would say nothing more, except another
appeal to heaven and earth against " the horridness of
people." This, however, gave Sir Gus a great deal to
think of. Dolly did not in the least know what he had
in his mind. She was not aware that the little man
was going about among all the pretty groups of the
garden party in the conscious exercise of choice, noting
all the ladies, selecting the one that pleased him. Two
or three had pleased him more or less — but one most of
all : which was what Dolly Stainforth never suspected.
Sir Gus walked about with the air of a man occupied
with important business. He had no time to pay any
attention to the progress of the games that were going
on ; his own affairs engrossed him altogether. Sometimes
he selected one lady from a number on pretence
of showing her something, or of watching a game, or
hearing the band play a particular air, and carried her
off with him to the suggested object, talking much and
earnestly. He did not pay much court to the mothers
and chaperons, but went boldly to the fountain-head.
And some of the pretty young women to whom he
talked so gravely did not quite know what to make of

the little baronet. They laughed among themselves,
and asked each other, " Did he ask you whether you
liked town better or country ? and if you would not
like to take a voyage to the tropics ? " Dolly on being
asked this question quite early in their acquaintance,
had answered frankly, " Not at all," and had further
explained that life out of the parish was incomprehensible
to her. ''I could not leave my poor people
for months and months, with nobody but papa to look
after them," Dolly had said.

It was only after he had enjoyed about half a dozen
interviews of this kind, amusing the greater part of his
temporary companions, but fluttering the bosoms of one
or two who were quick-witted enough to see the handkerchief
trembling in the little sultan's hand, that Sir
Gus allowed himself to be carried off in his turn by Ada
Westland, who came up to him in her bold way,
neglecting all decorum.

'' Come with me, Sir Augustus," she said, " I have
got a view to show you," and she led him to where
among the trees, there was a glimpse of the beautiful
rich country, undulating, all wooded and rich with cornfields
to where Markham Chase, with all its oaks and

beeches, shut in the horizon line. There was a glimpse
of the house to be had in the distance, peeping from the
foliage : and in the centre of the scene, the red roofs of
the village and the slope of the Rectory garden in the
sunshine. " I used to be brought here often to have
my duty taught me," said Ada. "Mamma made quite
a point of it every day when we first came here."

I am glad your duty makes you look at my house,
Miss Westland," said Sir Gus, making her a bow.

Oh, I don't mean now," said the outspoken young
woman. " That is quite a different matter. I was
quite young then, you know, and so was Paul, and my
mother trained me up in the way that a girl should go.
We are new people, you know; we Have not much
distinction in the way of family. What mamma intended
to do with me was to make me marry Paul."

Once more Sir Augustus bowed his head quite gravely.
He did not laugh at the bold announcement, as she
meant he should. " Was your heart in it ? " he said.

** My heart ? Do you think I, have got one ? T don't
know — I don't think it was, Sir Augustus. 'Look at
all that sweep of country,' mamma used to say ; ' that
may all be yours if you play your cards well — and a

VOL. IIL R

family going back to the Conqueror There have only
been two generations of us" said Ada ; " you may think
how grand it would have felt to know that there was a
Crusader's monument in the family. In some moods of
my mind, especially when I have been very much sat
upon by the blue-blooded people, I don't think I should
have minded marrying the Crusader himself"

I can understand the feeling," said Gus. He was
perfectly grave, his muscles did not relax a hairsbreadth.
He stood and looked upon the woods that were his own,
and the house which he called home. It looked a little
chilly to him, even in the midst of the sunshine. The
sky was pale with heat, and all the colours of the country
subdued in the brilliant afternoon light, the trees
hanna: together like terrestrial clouds, the stubble-fields
grey where the corn had been already cut, and
the roads white with dust. But it did not occur to him
as he stood and gazed at Markham that it would make
him happy to live there with his present companion by
his side. " Beauty is deceitful, and favour is vain'
She was one of the prettiest persons present. She was
full of wit and cleverness, and had far more wit and
knowledge than half of her party put together. But

the heart of the little baronet was not gained by those
qualities. He stood quite unmoved by Ada's side. She
might have married the Crusader for anything Sir
Augustus cared. Ada waited a little to see if no better
reply would come, and then she made another coiqx

Pity us for an unfortunate family, foiled on every
side," she said. "Paul you know, has ceased to bea
parti altogether. Anybody may marry him who
pleases — and to a district in which men do not abound
this is a great grievance — but I don't blame you for
that, Sir Augustus, though some do. And look there,"
she said, suddenly turning round, " look at the door of
the conservatory. There are mamma's hopes tumbling
down in another direction. I don't feel the disappointment
so much in my own case, but about George, I do
really pity mamma. She can't marry me to the next
property, as she intended ; and just look at George,
making a fool of himself with the parson's daughter-now,
Sir Augustus, don't you feel sorry for mamma ? "

Miss Stainforth is a very charming young lady,"
said Sir Gus, still as grave as ever, '* but I thought that

she " here he stopped in some confusion, having

nearly committed himself, he felt.

R 2

'* I know what you were going to say," said Ada,
with a laugh. " You think she had a fancy for Paul
too. She might just as well have had a fancy for the
moon. The Markhams would never have permitted
that ; and as for Paul himself, he thought no more of

Dolly ! Fancy, Dolly ! but my brother does. It

is a pity, a great pity, don't you think, that brothers
and sisters can't change places sometimes ? George
would have made a much better young lady than I do.
I am much too outspoken and candid for a girl, but I
should never have fallen in love with Dolly Stainforth.
If mamma could change us now, it would be some
consolation to her still."

Miss Stainforth is a very charming young lady," Sir
Gus said aojain.

A — ah ! " said Ada, with a malicious lausfh, '' you
admire Dolly too, Sir Augustus ? I beg a thousand
pardons. I ought to have been more cautious. But I
never thought that a man who had seen the world, a
man of judgment, a person with experience and
discrimination "

"You think too favourably of me," said Sir Gus.
"It is true I have come over a great part of the world ;

but I don't know that of itself that gives one much
experience. You think too favourably of me."

"That is a fault," said Ada, "which most men
pardon very easily," and she looked at him ina
way that was flattering, Gus felt, but a little
alarming too.

o

This conversation too had its effect upon him. He
felt that there was no time to lose in making up his
mind. If he was to secure for himself a companion
before the winter came on, it would be well not to lose
any time. And Miss Westland was very flattering and
agreeable ; she seemed to have a very high opinion of
him. Gus did not feel that she was the woman he
would like to marry; but if by any chance it might
happen that she was a woman who would like to marry
him, he did not feel that she would be very easy to
resist. That such a woman might possibly wish to
marry him was of itself very flattering; still on the
whole, Gus felt that he would prefer to choose rather
than to be chosen. And with a shrewd sense of the
difficulties of his position, he decided that to have
another young lady betrothed to him would be by far
his best safeguard against Ada. A woman who belonged

to him would sta nd up for him ; and the mere fact that
lie belonged to her would be an effectual defence. As
it happened, fortune favoured him. Mrs. Booth, who
had come with Dolly in her little carriage to the Towers,
wanted to get back early, as the evening was so fine,
and Dolly declared that there was nothing she would
like so much as to walk. There would certainly be
somebody going her way to bear her company. Then
Sir Gus stepped forward and said he would certainly be
going her way, and would walk with her to the Rectory
gate. Dolly smiled upon him so gratefully when he
said this that his heart stirred in Gus's bosom. She
kept near him all the rest of the time, coming up to him
now and then to see if he was ready, if he wished to go,
with much filial attention ; but Gus did not think of it
in that light. Nor did he think that it was by way of
getting rid of George Westland that she devoted herself
to him. This is not an idea which naturally suggests
itself to a man who has never had any reason to think
badly of himself Gus had always, on the contrary,
entertained a very good opinion of himself; he had
known that, on the whole, he deserved that mankind
in general should entertain a good opinion of him, and

there was nothing at all out of the way, or even unexpected
in the fact that Dolly should be pleased by his
care of her, and attracted towards himself. It was a
thing which was very natural and delightful, and pleased
him greatly. When the company began to disperse, he
was quite ready to obey Dolly's indication of a wish to
go, and to take leave of Lady Westland when her son
was out of the way, according to the girl's desire. They
set out upon the dusty road together in the grateful
cool of the summer evening, carriage after carriage
rolling past them, with many nods and wreathed smiles
from the occupants, and no doubt many remarks also
upon Dolly's cavalier. But the pair themselves took it
very tranquilly. They went slowly along, lingering on
the grassy margin of the road to escape the dust, and
enjoying the coolness and the quiet.

'' How sweet it is," Dolly said, '' after the heat of the
day."

'you call that hot, Miss Dolly?" said Gus. 'ewe
should not call it hot where I come from."

Well, I am glad I have nothing to do with the
tropics," Dolly said. " I like the cool evening better
than the day. One can move now — one can walk ; but

I suppose you never can do anything there in the heat
of the day ? "

"I am sorry you don't like the tropics," he said. " I
think you would, though, if you had ever been there.
It is more natural than England. Yes, you laugh,
but I know what I moan. I should like to show you
the bright-coloured flowers, and the birds, and all the
things so full of colour — there's no colour here. I tell
Bell and Marie so, and they tell me it is I that can't

see. And then the winter " Gus shuddered as he

spoke.

But you ought to have gone out more," said Dolly,
*' and taken exercise ; that makes the blood run in your
veins. Oh, I like the winter ! We have not had any
skating here for years. It has been so mild. I like a
good sharp frost, and no wind, and a real frosty sun,
and the ice bearing. You don't know how delightful
it is."

No, indeed," said Gus, with a shudder. '' But, perhaps''
he added, '' if one had a bright little companion
like you, one might be tempted to move about more.
Bell and Marie are delightful children, but they are a
little too young, you know."

But Alice — — " said Dolly, with a little anxiety.

Alice never has quite forgiven me, I fear; and then
she has her mother to think of; and they always tell
me she cannot do this or that for her mourning. It is
very right to wear mourning, I don't doubt," said Gus,
"but never to be able to go out, or meet your fellow-creatures
"

"That would be imjJossiUe ! " said Dolly, with decision.
" It is not a year yet. You did not know poor
Sir William. But next winter it will be different, and
we must all try to do our best " — for Lady Markham,
she was going to say — but he interrupted her.

That will be very kind, Miss Dolly. I think you
could do a great deal without trying very much. I
always feel more cheerful in your company. Do you
remember the first time Ave ever were in each other's
company, on the railway ? "

Oh, yes," cried Dolly. She was very incautious.

I thought you were such a " She did not safe

queer little man, but felt as if she had said it, so near
was it to her lips; and blushed, which pleased Gus
greatly, and made him imagine a much more flattering
conclusion. " You asked me a great deal about poor

Paul," she said, " and then we met them coming home ;
and Sir William, oh ! how ill he looked — as if he would
die I "

"You remember that day?" said Gus, much delighted,
" and so do I. You told me a great deal about
my family. It was strange to talk of my family
as if I had been a stranger, and to hear so much
about them."

I thought you were a stranger, Sir Augustus."

Yes, and you wished I had been one when you
found out who I really was. Oh, I don't blame you,
Miss Dolly — it Alas very natural ; but I hope now, my
dear," he said, with a tone that was quite fatherly,
though he did not intend it to be so, '* that you are not
so sorry, but rather glad on the whole to know Gus
Markham, who is not so bad as you thought."

Dolly was surprised to be called " my dear ; " but at
his age was it not quite natural ?

*' Oh' she said, faltering, '' I never thought you were
bad, Sir Augustus; you have always been very kind, I
know."

But she could not say she was glad of his existence,
which had done so much harm to — other people ; even

though in her heart she lead a king for Sir Gus, the
queerest little man that ever was !

I have tried to be," he said ; " and I think they
all feel I have done my best to show myself a real
friend ; but there comes a time when one wants something
more than a friend, and, Dolly, I think that time
has come now."

Well ! it was a little odd, but she did not at all mind
being called Dolly by Sir Gus. She looked at him
with a little surprise, doubtful what he could mean.
They were by this time quite near the village and the
Rectory gate.

I think," he said, " that if I don't get married, my
dear, I shall never be able to stand another winter at
Markham. It nearly killed me last year."

Married ! " she cried, her voice going off in a high
quaver of surprise and consternation. If her father
had intimated a similar intention she could scarcely
have been more astonished. This is what everybody
had consoled themselves by thinking such a man was
never likely to do.

Yes, married," he said. " Don't you think you
know, Dolly, a dear little girl that would marry me.

though I am not so young nor so handsome as Paul ?
You see it is not Paul now, it is me ; and though he
was handsomer and taller, I don't think he was nearly
so good-tempered as I am, my dear. I give very little
trouble, and I should always be willing to do what my
wife wanted to do — or at least almost always, Dolly —
and you would not get that with many other men.
Haven't you ever thought of it before? Oh, I have,
often. I went through all the others to-day, just to
give myself a last chance, to see if, at the last moment,
there was any one I liked better; but there was none
so nice as you. You see, I have not done it without
thought. Now, my pretty Dolly, my little dear, just
say you will marry me before the winter, and tomorrow
we can settle all the rest."

He had taken her hand as they stood together at the
gate. Dolly's amazement knew no bounds. She was
so bewildered that she could only stand and gaze at
him with open mouth.

*' Do you mean me ? '* she cried at last — " me ? " with
mingled horror and surprise. *' I don't know what you
mean ! " she said.

"Yes, my dear, I mean you. I tell you I looked

again at all the rest, and there was not one so nice.
Of course I mean you, Dolly. I have always been
fond of you from the first. I will make you a good
husband, dear, and you will make me a sweet little
wife."

*' Oh, no, no, no ! " Dolly cried. The world, and the
sky, and the trees, seemed to be going round with
her. She caught at the gate to support herself. "No,
no, no ! It is all a dreadful mistake."

It cannot be a mistake. I know very well what I
am doing, Dolly."

But oh dear 1 oh dear ! Sir Augustus, let me
speak. Do you think I know what I am doing ? No,
no, no, no You must be going out of your senses to
ask me."

"Why? because you are so young and so little?
But that is just what I like. You are the prettiest
of all the girls. You are a dear, sweet, good little
thing that will never disappoint me. No, no, it is no
mistake'*

To see him standing there beaming and smiling
through the dusk was a terrible business for Dolly.

It is a mistake. I cannot, cannot do it — indeed I

cannot. I will not marry you — never 1 I don't want
to marry anybody," she said, beginning to weep in her
excitement.

Now and then a villager would lumber by, and, seeing
the couple at the porch, grin to himself and think
that Miss Dolly was just the same as the other lasses.
It was a pity the gentleman was so little, was all
they said.

I

At last the year of the mourning was over. The
Lennys, the good colonel and his wife, had come to
Markham a few days before, and he was a great godsend
to the boys, who were vaguely impressed by the anniversary,
but could not but feel the grief a little tedious
which had lasted a whole year. They were very glad
to go out quite early in the morning with the colonel,
not at all, as it were, for their own pleasure, but because
his visit was to be short, and the keeper was in despair
about the birds Which no one shot, and which Sir
Augustus was so utterly indifferent about.

'' He wouldn't mind a bit if the place was given upto
the poachers," Harry said. *' He says, ' What's the
good of the game — can't wee buy all we want ? ' I think
he is cracked on that point."

I don't mind Gus at all in some things," said Roland.
'' He's not half a bad fellow in some things ; but he's an
awful muff — no one can deny that."

He has not been brought up as you have been' the
colonel said.

While they stole out in the early morning, the old
man and the boys, all keen with anticipated pleasure,
Gus felt already the first prison of approaching winter
in the sunny haze of September, and had coverings
heaped upon him, and dressed by the fire when he got
up two hours after. Poor Sir Gus was not at all cheerful.
Dolly's refusal had not indeed broken his heart,
but it had disappointed him very much, and he did not
know what he was to do to make life tolerable now that
this expedient had failed. The anniversary oppressed him
more or less, not with grief, but with a sense that, after
all, the huge change and advancement that had come to
him with his father's death had not perhaps brought all
he expected it to bring. To be Sir Augustus, and have
a fine property and more money than he knew how
to spend, and a grand position, had not increased his
happiness. On the contrary, it seemed to him that the
first day he had come to Markham, when the children

had given him luncheon and showed so much curiosity
about him as a relation, had been happier than any he
had known since. He too had been full of lively
curiosity and expectation, and had believed himself on
the verge of a very happy change in his life. But he
did not anticipate the death or the trouble to others
which were the melancholy gates by which he had to
enter upon his higher life. When ho had dressed, he
sat over the fire thinking of it on that bright September
morning. He was half angry because he could not get
rid of the feeling of the anniversary. After all, there
was nothing more sad in the fifteenth of September
than in any other day. But Lady Markham, no doubt,
would shut herself up, and Alice look at him as if,
somehow or other, he was the cause of it ; and they
would speak in subdued tones, and it would be a kind
of sin to do or say anything amusing. Gus could not
but feel a little irritation thinking of the long day
before him, and then of the long winter that was
coming. And all the prophets said it was to be a hard
winter. The holly-trees in the park, where they grew
very tall, were already crimson with berries. Already
one or two nights' frost had made the geraniums droop.
VOL. III. S

A hard winter ! The last had been said to be a mild
one. If this was worse than that, Sir Gus did not know
what he should do.

The day, however, passed over more easily than he*
thought. His aunt, Mrs. Lenny, was a godsend to him
as the colonel was to the boys. She made him talk of
nothing but "'' the island " all the day long. It was long
since she had left it. She wanted to know about
everybody, the old negroes, the governor's parties, the
regiments that had been there. On her side she
had a hundred stories to tell of her own youth, which
looked all the brighter for being so far in the distance.
They took a drive together in the middle of
the day, basking in the sunshine, and as the evening
came on they had a roaring fire, and felt themselves in
the tropics.

'shouldn't you like to go back ? " Mrs. Lenny said.
If I were as rich as you, Gus, I'd have my estate there,
like in the old days, and there I'd spend my winters.
With all the money you've got, what would it matter
whether it paid or not ? You could afford to keep
everything up as in the old days."

But there's the sea. I .would do it in a moment,"

Gus said, his brown face lighting up, " but for the
sea."

You would soon get used to the sea — it's nothings.
You would get over the sickness in a day, and then it's
beautiful. Take me with you one time, Gus, there's a
darling. I'd like to see it all again before I die."

I'll think of it," Gus said : and indeed for the next
twenty-four hours he thought of nothing else.

Would it be possible ? Some people went to Italy
for the winter, why not to Barbadoes ? No doubt it
was a longer voyage ; but then what a different life,
what a smoothed and warmed existence, without all
this English cold and exercise. He thought of it,
neither more nor less, all the next night and all the
next day.

And no doubt it was a relief to the house in general
when the anniversary was over. A vague lightening,
no one could tell exactly what, was in the atmosphere.
They had spared no honour to the dead, and now it was
the turn of the living. To see Bell and Marie in white
frocks was an exhilaration to the house. And it cannot
be said that any one was surprised when quite quietly,
without any warning, Fairfax walked into the halls

2

where the children were all assembled next day. He
had paid them various flying visits with Paul during
the past year, coming for a day or two afc Easter, for a
little while in the summer. But there was something
different, they all thought, about him now. From the
moment when Lady Markham had been informed of
that one little detail of his circumstances mentioned ina
previous chapter, the young man had taken a different
aspect in her eyes. He had no longer seemed the
careless young fellow of no great account one way or
another, very 'nice," very simple and humble-minded,
the most good-humoured of companion and serviceable
of friends, which was how he appeared to all the rest.
Mr. Brown had judged justly from the first. The
simplicity of the young millionaire had not taken in his
experienced faculties. He had always been respectful,
obsequious, devoted, long before any one else suspected
the truth. How it was, however, that Lady Markham
who was very different from Brown, who considered
herself above the vulgar argument of wealth, one to
whom the mystic superiority of blood was always
discernible, and a rich roturier rather less agreeable
than a poor one — how it was. that she looked upon this

easy, careless, lighthearted young man, who was ready
to make himself the servant of everybody, and who
made his way through life like an obscure and trusted
but careless spectator, rather than an agent of any
personal importance — with altogether different eyes
after the secret of his wealth had been communicated
to her is what we do not pretend to explain. She said
to herself that it did not, could not, make any
difference ; but she knew all the same that it made an
immense difference. Had he been poor as well as a
nobody, she would have fought with all her powers
against all and every persuasion which might have been
brought to bear upon her. She would have accorded
him her daughter only as it were at the sword's point,
if it had been a matter of life and death to Alice. But
when she knew of Fairfax's wealth, Lady Markham's
opposition gradually and instinctively died away. She
said it was the same as ever ; but while she said so, felt
the antagonism and the dislike fading out of her mind,
why, she did not know. His wealth was something
external to himself, made no difference in him ; but
somehow it made all the difference. Lady Markham
from that moment gave up the struggle. She made up

her mind to him as her son. She never thought more
about his grandfather. Was this worldly-mindedness,
love of money on her part ? It was impossible to think
so, and yet what was it ? She did not herself understand,
and who else could do so ?

But nobody else had been aware of this change in
the standard by which Fairfax was judged, and everybody
had treated him easily, carelessly, as before.
Only when he appeared to-day the family generally
were conscious of a difference. He was more serious,
even anxious; he had not an ear for every piece of
nonsense as before, but was grave and pre-occupied,
not hearing what was said to him. Mrs. Lenny thought
she knew exactly what was the matter. He attracted
her special sympathies.

Poor young fellow," she said, ''he's come courting,
and he might just as well court the fairies at the
bottom of the sea. My Lady Markham's not the
woman I take her for if she'll ever give her pretty
daughter to the likes of him."

'' He wants to marry Alice, do you think ? " said Gus.
"I wonder if shell have nothing to say to him
either''

He was thinking of Dolly, but Mrs. Lenny understood
that it was of Lady Markham's opposition he
thought.

I would not answer for the girl herself," Mrs.
Lenny said ; " but Gus, my dear, you have done harm
enough in this house ; here's a case in which you
might be of use. You have neither chick nor child.
Why shouldn't you settle something on your pretty
young sister, and let her marry the man she likes ? "

No, I have neither chick nor child," Gus said.

It was not a speech that pleased him, and yet it was
very true. He pondered this question with a continually
increasing depression in his mind all day. He
could not o^et what he wanted himself, but he miafht
help Fairfax to get it, and make up to him for the
imperfections of fortune. Perhaps he might even be
asked, for anything he could tell, to serve Paul in the
same way. This made the little baronet sad, and even
a little irritated. Was this all he had been made a
great man for, an English landed proprietor, in order
that he should use his money to get happiness for
other people, none for himself?

In the meantime Fairfax had followed Alice to the

west room, her mother's favourite place, but Lady
Markham was not there.

I will tell mamma. I am sure she will be glad to
see you' Alice said.

"Just one moment — only wait one moment'
Fairfax said, detaining her with his hand raised in
appeal.

But when she stopped at his entreaty he did not say
anything. What answer could she make him ? She
was standing waiting With a little wonder and much
embarrassment. And he said nothing ; at last —

Paul is very well' he said.

'' I am very glad. We heard from him yesterday."

Then there was another pause.

Miss Markham' said Fairfax, " I told your mother
myself of that, you know, and a great deal more. She
was not so — angry as I feared."

Angry ! " Alice laughed a little, but very
nervously. " How could she be angry ? It was not
anything that could "

What had she been going to say ? Something cruel,
something that she did not mean.

Nothing that could — matter to you ? I was afraid

not," said Fairfax ; " that is what I have been fearing
you would say."

Of course it does not matter to us," said Alice,
'' how should it ? Why should it matter to any one ?
We are not such poor creatures, Mr. Fairfax. You
think you — like us ; but you have a very low opinion
of us after all."

'* No, I don't think I like you. I think something
very different. You know what I think," he said.
"It all depends upon what you will say. I have
waited till yesterday was over and would not say a
word ; but now the world had begun again. How is
it to begin for me ? It has not been good for very
much in the past ; but there might be new heavens

and a new earth if Alice!" he cried, coming

close to her, his face full of emotion, his hands held
out.

Mr. Fairfax ! " she said, drawing back a step.
There is mamma to think of. I cannot go against
her. I must do what she says."

'■'Just one word, whatever comes of it, to myself —
from you to me — from you to me ! And after," he
said, breathless, " she shall decide."

Alice did not say any word. Perhaps she had not
time for it — perhaps it was not needed. But just then
the curtains that half veiled the west room were
drawn aside with a fretful motion.

If it is you who are there, Alice and Fairfax," said
Sir Gus — and in his voice, too, there was a fretful tone,
'' I just want to say one word. I'll make it all right
for you. You need not be afraid of mamma. I'll
make it all right with her. There ! that was all I
wanted to say."

When Sir Gus had delivered himself of this little
speech he went off again very hastily to the hall, not
meaning to disturb any tender scene. The idea had
struck him all at once, and he carried it out without
giving himself time to think. It did him a little good ;
but yet he was cross, not like himself, Bell and Marie
thought. There was a lire in the hall, too, which the
children, coming in hot and flushed from their games,
had found great fault with.

"■ You will roast us all up ; you will make us thin
and brown like yourself," said Bell, who was always
saucy.

"Am I so thin and so brown?" the poor little

gentleman had said. " Yes, I suppose so, not like you,
white and red."

Oh, Bell, how could you talk so, to hurt his
feelings ? " said little Marie, as they stood by the open
door and watched him, standing sunning himself in
the warmth.

His brown face looked very discontented, sad, yet
soft, with some feeling that was not anger. The little
girls began to draw near. For one thing the autumn
air was cool in the afternoon, and their white frocks
were not so thick as their black ones. They began to
see a little reason in the fire. Then Bell, always the
foremost, sprang suddenly forward, and clasped his arm
in both hers.

He is quite right to have a lire," she said. "And
I hate you for being cross about it, Marie. He is the
kindest old brother that ever was. I don't mind being
roasted, or any thing else Gus pleases."

Oh, Gus, you know it wasn't me ! " cried Marie,
clinging to the other arm.

His face softened as he looked from one to
another.

It wasn't either of you," he said. " I was cross, too.

It is the cold — it is the winter that is coming. One
can't help it."

It was not winter that was coming, but still there
was a chill little breeze playing about, and the
afternoon was beginning to cloud over. Lady Markham
coming down stairs was struck by the group in
the full light of the fire, which threw a ruddy gleam
into the clouded daylight. Something touched her
in it. She paused and stood beside them, looking at
him kindly.

You must not let them bother you. You are too
kind to them," she said.

Just then the post-bag came in, and Mrs. Lenny
along with it, eager, as people who never have any
letters to speak of always are, about the post. They
all gathered about while the bag was opened and the
letters distributed. All that Mrs. Lenny got was a
newspaper — a queer little tropical broadsheet, which
was of more importance, as it turned out, than all the
letters which the others were reading. She put herself
by the side of the fire to look over it, while Lady
Markham in the window opened her correspondence,
and Gus took the stamps off a foreign letter he had

received to give them to Bell and Marie. The little
girls were in all the fervour of stamp-collecting. They
had a book full of the choicest specimens, and this was
just the kind of taste in which Sir Gus could sympathise.
He was dividing the stamps between them equally,
bending his little brown head to the level of Marie, for
Bell was now quite as tall as her brother. Their little
chatter was restrained, for the sake of mamma and
Colonel Lenny, who were both reading letters, into a
soft hum of accompaniment, which somehow harmonised
with the ruddy glow of the fire behind them, warming
the dull air of the afternoon,

That will make the German ones complete," Bell
was saying. And, '' Oh, if I had only a Greek, like
Bell, I should be happy ! " cried Marie. The little
rustle of the newspaper in Mrs. Lenny's hand was
almost as loud as their subdued voices. All at once,
into the midst of this quiet, there came a cry, a laughing,
a weeping, and Mrs. Lenny, jumping up, throwing
down the chair she had been sitting on, rushed at Sir
Gus, thrusting the paper before him, and grasping his
arm with all her force.

"Oh, Gus, Gus, Gus!" she cried, ''Oh, Colonel,

look here ! Gavestonville estate's in the market.
The old house is going to be sold again. Oh, Colonel,
why haven't we got any money to buy it, you and
me ! "

'' Give it here," said Sir Gus.

He held it over Marie's head, who stood shadowed
by it as under a tent, gazing up at him and holding her
stamp in her hand. The little gentleman did not say
another word. He paid no attention either to Mrs.
Lenny's half hysterics or the calls of little Marie, who
had a great deal to say to him about her stamp. His
face grew pale with excitement under the brown. He
walked straight away from them, up the staircase and
to his own room ; while even Lady Markham, roused
from her letters, stood looking after him and listening
to the footstep ringing very clear and steady, but with
a sound of agitation in it, step by step up the stairs and
along the corridor above. It seemed to them all, young
and old, as if something had happened, but what they
could not tell.

Sir Gus was very grave at dinner : he did not talk
much — and though he was more than usually kind, yet
he had not much to say, even to the children, after.

But by this time the interest had shifted in those
changeable young heads to Fairfax, who was the last
novelty, " engaged to " Alice, a piece of news which
made Bell and Marie tremulous with excitement, and
excited an instinctive opposition in Roland and Harry.
But when the evening was over Gus requested an interview
with Lady Markham, and conducted her with
great solemnity to the library, though it was a room he
did not love. There he placed himself in front of the
fire, contemplating her with a countenance quite unlike
his usual calm.

'' I have something very important to tell you,"
he said. ''I have taken a resolution, Lady Markham."
And in every line of the little baronet's
figure it mio^ht be seen how determined this resolution
was.

'' Tell me what it is," Lady Markham said, as he
seemed to want her to say something. And then Sir
Gus cleared his throat as if he were about to deliver a
speech.

It is — but first let me tell you that I promised to
make it all right for those young people, Alice and
Fairfax. I hope you'll let them be happy. It seems

to me that to be happy when you are young, when you
can have it is the best thing. I promise to make it all
right with you. I'll settle upon her whatever you think
necessary."

"You have a heart of gold," said Lady Markham,
much moved, " and they will be as grateful to you as if
they wanted it. Mr. Fairfax," she said (and Lady
Markham, though she was not mercenary, could not
not help saying it with a little pride), '' Mr. Fairfax is
very rich. He has a great fortune ; he can give Alice
everything that could be desired — though all the same,
dear Gus, they will be grateful to you."

Ah ! " said Sir Gus, with a blank air of surprise
like a man suddenly stopped by a blank wall. He
made a dead stop and looked at her, then resumed.
I have taken a resolution, Lady Markham. I think
I never ought to have come here ; at all events it has
not done me very much good, has it, nor any one else ?
And I aren't face another winter. I think I should die.
Perhaps if I had married and that sort of thing it
miofht have been better. It is too late to think of that

now,

■' Why too late ? " said Lady Markham. Her heart

had begin to beat loudly ; but she would not be outdone
in generosity, and indeed nothing had been more
kind than poor Gus. She determined to fight his battle
against himself. " Why too late ? You must not
think so. You will not find the second winter so hard
as the first — and as for marrying "

Yes, that's out of the question, Lady Markham ;
and at first I never meant to, because of Paul. So
here is what I am going to do. You heard what old
Aunt Katie said. The old house is for sale again :
the old place where she was born and I was born,
my uncle's old place that he had to sell, where I
am as well known as Paul is at Markham. I am
going back there; don't say a word. It's better forme,
and better for you, and all of us. I'll take
the old woman with me, and I'll be as happy as the
day is long."

Here Gus gave a little gulp. Lady Markham got
up and went towards him with her hand extended in
anxious deprecation, though who can tell what a storm
was going on in her bosom, of mingled reluctance and
expectation — an agitation beyond words. He too raised
his hand to keep her silent.

VOL. III. T

Don't say anything," he said; '' I've made up my
mind ; it will be a great deal better. Paul can come
back, and I dare say he'll marry little Dolly. Yon can
say I hope he will, and make her a good husband.
And since Fairfax is rich, why that is all right without
me. Send for Paul, my lady, and we'll settle about
the money ; for I must have money you know. I
must have my share. And I'd like to give a sort of
legacy to the little girls. They're fond of me, really,
those two children, they are now, though you might
not think it."

We are all fond of you," said Lady Markham, with
tears.

Well, perhaps that is too much to expect ; but you
have all been very kind. Send for Paul, and make
him bring the lawyer, and we'll get it all settled. I
shall go out by the next steamer," said Sir Gus, after
a little pause, recovering his usual tone. " No more
of this cold for me. I shall be king at Gavestonville,
as Paul will be here. I don't think, Lady Markham,
I have anything more to say."

"But," she cried clinging to her duty. "But — I
don't know what to say to you. Gus — Gus ! "

"I have made up my mind," said the little gentleman
with great dignity, and after that there was not
another word to say.

But there was a great convulsion in Markham
when Sir Gus went away. The children were
inconsolable. And Dolly stood by the Rectory gate
when his carriage went past to the railway with
the tears running down her cheeks. He had the
carriage stopped at that last moment, and stepped
out to speak to her, letting his fur cloak fall on
the road.

'' Marry Paul, my dear," he said, " that will bea
great deal better than if you had married
me. But you may give me a kiss before I go
away."

There was a vague notion in Sir Gus's mind that
little Dolly had wanted to marry him, but that he had
discouraged the idea. He spoke in something of the
same voice to the children as they saw him go
away, watched him driving off. " I can't take you
with me," he said, " but you shall come and see me."
And so, with great dignity and satisfaction, Sir Gus
went away.

Thus Paul Markham had his property again when
he had given up all thought of it ; but the little gentleman
who is the neatest man in Barbadoes has not the

o

slightest intention of dying to oblige him, and in all
likelihood the master of Markham will never be
Sir Paul

THE END.

LONDON ; R. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS.

:J^ .

.*#■ U

m*

mm

/v»#f

<tmpMJ^ «

wv

■«*-^

i's'

af- •

• -^

.^>^

3 0112 055263658
