OF PHL
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS

Omen
vel

The person charging tWs-f^^^^^^^^^
latest Date stamped below. ^^^^^^^

,o, disciplinary o.l n ont amoy

the University. 3J3.8400

L161-O-1096

i-l /,^»/

^ v^

/y'^

3/^

Jl iFloDel.

BY

KATHLEEN O'MEARA,

AUTHOR OF ' FREDERIC OZANAM,' ' IZA's STORY,' ' MADAME Moil, HER SALON
AND HER FRIENDS,' ' THE OLD HOUSE IN PICARDY,' ETC., ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers! in (Drbinarg to ^cr Jtlajestjo the (^iiun.

1888.

[A// Rights Reserved

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/narkanovel01omea

discontents

OF VOL. I

LO

LO

^

I. THE WOLF -

II. THE HUNT - - - .

III. Narva AND MARGUERITE EXCHANGE VIEWS

ABOUT MANY THINGS

IV. THE EVIL OMEN COMES TRUE
V. WHO FIRED THE SHOT

VI. ' IT IS NO MURDER IN THE SIGHT OF GOD '

VII. IVAN'S MESSAGE . - . .

VIII. THE LEGACY . - - - -

IX. basil's DECLARATION - - - -

X. WAITING FOR FATHER CHRISTOPHER

XI. marguerite's vocation . . -

XII. basil's confession - - - -

XIII. narva's oath . . - - -

xiv. sibyl's manoeuvres - - - >

XV. the clemency of the czar

PAGE

I








lOI
















CHAPTER PAGE

XVI. TIDINGS FROM BASIL - - - . 223

XVII. THE MEETING WITH MARGUERITE - - 235

XVIII. THE MEETING WITH SIBYL - - - 252

XIX. SIBYL REOPENS HER SALONS - - - 263

XX. THE WOMAN WHOM BASIL LOVED - - 282

XXI. MARGUERITE'S SYMPATHY - - . 290

CHAPTER I.

THE WOLF.

IT was All Souls' Eve. The winter
was setting in early, and threatened,
or perhaps we should say
promised, to be a severe one ; for a hard
winter was not looked upon as a misfortune
at Yrakow, the ancestral home of Prince
Zorokoff. Ice and snow brought too many
pleasures in their train ever to be unwelcome
there.

A group, consisting of young Prince Basil
Zorokoff, his brother-in-law, Mede Beaucrillon,

VOL. L I

and three ladies, was assembled in an old-fashioned
tapestried room of the castle. The
two men were smoking; cigarettes, and discussing
sport between long-drawn puffs. The
three ladies were sitting round the samovar.
They presented three as distinct types as
could have been brought together with a view
to the improvement of each by contrast.

Sibyl, Comtesse de Beaucrillon, the daughter
of the house, was as blond as a Scandinavian,
with light blue eyes and fair hair ;
her hands were so small as to be almost out
of proportion with her figure, which was tall
and full ; they were round and dimpled like a
baby's, with the delicate nails and pink fingertips
that one seldom sees in perfection except
in babies. Her movements had the subtle,
fascinating grace that reminded you of a
kitten, or rather of a young cat, for there was
nothing of the undignified friskiness of a kitten
about Sibyl ; she was patrician to the tips of
her fingers ; her manners united the refined
elegance of a Frenchwoman with the soft
serpentine grace of the women of the North.

Marguerite de Beaucrillon was just below
the middle height, but she looked tiny beside
her stately sister-in-law. She had no pretensions
to beauty, yet her face was pleasant
to look at than many a beautiful one ; her
clear olive skin, her warm colour, her wistful
bright brown eyes, her dimples, and her
glossy hair were suggestive of youth, health,
and happiness, and these natural advantages
were set off by the most becoming toilets ;
for Marguerite had a French girl's taste and
principles about dress, and considered it
seriously as one of the daily duties of her state
of life. She was careful and very successful
in her combination of colours and effects. Yet
you would never have accused her of coquetry
in the ordinary sense. If you had been so
uncharitable, one glance into her face would
have converted you. Her eyes were as free
from consciousness as a child's, and their
language was as transparent. Sibyl used to
say to her, * If you don't want people to see
what you are thinking of, drop your lids, for
those eyes of yours are like windows into

I — 2

your brain, that let one see your thoughts
coming and s^oino-/

Narva Larik, the adopted sister of Madame
de Beaucrlllon, was the tallest of the three
women, and cast In altogether an ampler
mould. If her figure had been less perfectly
proportioned, it might have seemed too large ;
her great, luminous blue-black eyes, sometimes
quite blue, sometimes quite black, were
soft as velvet, but under the softness there
lurked Intimation of a fiery vitality ready to
awake and emit sparks at the lightest touch ;
her mouth was, perhaps, a trifle too full for
classical perfection, but its curves were so
exquisite, the sensitive play of the lips so
lovely, that you never thought of criticising
; the clear tint of her complexion was
like the whiteness of some white flower ; her
hair, of that warm, red gold beloved of
Titian, was knotted in thick coils at the back
of her head, and fell in rippling waves over
her low square forehead. There was something
wild in the character of Narva's beauty,
in the lines of her figure ; she stood and

moved with the strong, elastic ease of a
panther, or of some other grand, free, untamed
creature. Beautiful, incomparably
more beautiful than Sibyl, there was, nevertheless,
something wanting in her beauty
which Sibyl's possessed — something impalpable
but distinct, which marks the difference
between a highly finished work of art and a
spontaneous growth of Nature in her happiest
and most generous mood. This difference
was not noticeable except when the patrician
sister was brought into close contact with the
plebeian, and even then no one was conscious
of it, perhaps, but Narva herself. She knew
that she was beautiful, and far more gifted in
many ways than Sibyl, and yet she felt as
much her inferior as the lowly born maid in
mediaeval times may have felt herself below
the noble demoiselle in whose train she was
brought up.

The three friends were chatting over their
teacups, planning costumes for a fancy ball
that was to take place at the castle before
Christmas.

I wish I could hit upon something that
would combine everything,' Marguerite said,
putting her head on one side with a pretty
bird-like motion, which always bewitched
Basil Zorokoff.

Why don't you consult me, cousin ?' he
said, holding out his cigarette between his
first and second fingers, and gazing steadily
at Marguerite, while the twinkle in his blue
eyes belied the extreme seriousness of his
handsome face.

Well ?' said Marguerite, with another
bewitching turn of her head from left to right.

Little Red Riding Hood would suit you
to perfection. The colour would be becoming,
and your eyes would shine like
diamonds under the scarlet hood, and you
would look like a Lilliputian Venus in the
short petticoats.'

And you would play the Wolf, and howl at
me?'

And crunch you up ; that I should do
with great satisfaction !'

How many wolves' skins would it take to

make a costume for you, I wonder ?' said
Marguerite, measuring the tall young fellow's
height with a glance of saucy impertinence.
A pity it is so early in the winter, or you
might go and shoot half a dozen. How
exciting it must be to hear them howling in
the forest ! They never come till Christmas,
do they ?'

Basil had not time to answer, when a distant
sound, penetrating through the heavily
curtained windows, made them all start.

There it is again !' said Narva.
What is it ?' asked Marguerite.

Listen !'

Sibyl held up her finger, and the gentlemen
put down their cigarettes.

A long dismal howl, perceptibly nearer this
time, was again audible.

Is it a wolf?' asked Marguerite, under her
breath.

At this time of the year !' said M. de
Beaucrillon. * You were just now telling me
that they never came till the snow was
deep ?'

No more they do,' replied Basil. ' I
never before knew, except when I was a
child '

There it is again !' interrupted Sibyl, ' and
this time quite close. Let us go up to the
gallery !'

Oh, how dreadful !' exclaimed Marguerite,
who seemed too horrified to move. ' If he
were to dash at the windows and break in !'

He certainly would if he saw you, little
cousin,' said Basil ; ' but as he can't, we have
nothing to fear. Come along up to the
gallery, and see what a live wolf looks like.'

He drew her arm through his, and led her
off, excited and only half reluctant. The
others had all fled up before them, and were
already grouped in the deep mullions
window at the farther end of the gallery, the
only one that was in shadow, for it was a
brilliant night, and the full moon, riding high
in the heavens, sent, as her largess, broad
bars of silver light through the row of eight
windows on one side of the gallery. Basil,
still holding Marguerite's arm within his,

joined the others, and they all stood watching.


The broad gravel drive shone like granite
in the dazzling whiteness of the moonshine ;
one wing of the castle was in black shadow,
the other in brilliant light, every arch and
moulding carved in ebony and silver.

Where is the brute sneaking ?' said Basil,
in a low voice.

He can't be far off,' said Narva ; ' the last
howl was very close.'

They waited with bated breath. Nothing
stirred. The park was so silent you might
have heard the stars scintillating.

'Look! there he is!' exclaimed Sibyl, in a
whisper, pointing towards the clock tower,
that was in shadow.

They pressed closer, and strained their
eyes.

I see him !' Marguerite cried, and shuddering,
she clutched Basil's arm, as if safety lay
in his coat-sleeve.

Basil bore it manfully. ^ Never fear, little
cousin. See, he is coming on !'

The beast advanced a few steps and paused,
one half of his lank gray body in shadow,
the other in sheen. Suddenly he pricked his
ears, held one forefoot suspended, and turned
his head towards the park in an attitude of
intense listening.

Does he hear something 1' asked M. de
Beaucrillon.

It looks like it,' Basil replied uneasily.
I will fetch my gun.'

So will I,' said his brother-in-law. And
they hurried away together.

Presently the wolf turned his head towards
the house, moved forward a few steps, and
glared up with his red eye-balls.

To Marguerite there was something delicious
in the combination of horror and a sense
of comfortable safety that she experienced in
looking down at the ferocious animal from
behind thick stone walls.

Do you think he heard us speaking ?' she
asked, almost under her breath.

Narva's fear and Sibyl's was that he had
heard something else. What an age the

gentlemen were in bringing their fire-arms !
They had in reality been away about two
minutes.

Oh, here they come !' said Sibyl.

Open the window as quickly and quietly
as you can said Basil. But before there was
time to obey, the wolf turned his head, and
uttering a long howl, bounded off, and disappeared
round the clock tower.

Confound the brute !' muttered Basil.

I wonder why he darted away so suddenly
?' said Narva.

Probably it was some noise in the thicket,
an animal prowling about replied Basil ; but
he did not seem convinced.

Suppose It were some one coming through
the park ?' suggested Marguerite. ' How
awful If it were !'

Nobody is likely to be out this time of
night returned her cousin.

Hush ! listen !' cried M. de Beaucrillon,
laying his hand on Basil's shoulder.

Every ear was strained. Yes, there was a
sound of galloping hoofs In the distance.

Ought we to send out men with fire-arms ?'
asked Sibyl.

Where to ?' said Basil. ' That sound
comes from the left, and the brute made for
the forest. Besides, no one would be abroad
at this hour without fire-arms. I dare say it
is Larchoff. 1 met him riding in to X.
this afternoon. He often rides back late.
He is sure to be armed. It would be a good
joke if the wolf pulled him down and made a
meal of him !'

No such luck !' said Narva ; ' beasts of a
species do not prey on each other.'

This speech sounded unnaturally cynical
on the lips of a young girl. Marguerite
shrank imperceptibly away from her, and
moved closer to Basil. M. de Beaucrillon
felt the same repulsion so strongly that, under
pretence of putting aside his gun, he went
out of the room.

Presently Basil carried his to a safe corner,
and then, stepping into the deep embrasure of
one of the windows flooded with light, called
to Marguerite to join him. She went tripping

lightly across the polished floor, and
they stood together looking out at the moonlit
landscape.

Sibyl and Narva remained alone. They
were both more disturbed than they wished
to appear. Superstitious as genuine Muscovites,
the coming of the wolf before the
seasonable time was to them an ill-omen, all
the more alarming from its vagueness. ' The
wolf waits for the white carpet,' was a saying
of the peasants ; and when he appeared
before the carpet was spread, some calamity
was certain to follow.

*Well, cousin, you have had a glimpse of
one of our winter amusements. How do you
like it ?' asked Basil.

I don't like it at all,' replied Marguerite.

You were saying, only a little while ago,
that it must be so exciting, and wanting me to
turn wolf and howl at you.'

Do you think that wolf overheard
me?'

I will tell you a secret,' said Basil : ' I
asked the brute to come and howl for you

to-night. At first he flatly refused, Hke the
brute that he is ; then I bribed him.'

What bribe did you offer him ?'

You won't tell ?' He bent his tall figure
down until his moustache almost touched her
ear ; ' I told him that Larchoff was coming
this way, and that he could sup off him.'

Oh !' said Marguerite, drawing away with
a little shudder. ' Why do you want that
poor man to be devoured by a wild beast ?'

Because that poor man is more destructive
than any wild beast alive : he is the devil !'

Is he so wicked ? Who is he ?'

'Who is Larchoff? He is our neighbour,
and dates his descent from Peter the Great,
who gave the family a title. He is a liar and
a hypocrite ; as cruel as a tiger, and as
greedy as a wolf ; cowardly as a rat, and
dishonest as a Jew. He has all the bad
instincts of man and beast combined ; he is
only fit company for the devil, and that is
where the curses of good men are speeding
him night and day.'

Ah ! but that is wicked !' said Marguerite,

with a shudder. ' They ought to pray for
him that he may repent.'

Pray for Larchoff !' Basil threw back his
head with a low laugh ; the notion of anybody
praying for Larchoff was immensely
funny to him. * If the prayers were heard,
and that fiend were to repent and enter the
kingdom of heaven, I hope I may go somewhere
else ! He has done more evil and
made more men and women miserable than
any man of this generation — unless, perhaps,
his master the Czar. You know about
old Larchoff, this fellow's father ? No ?
Sibyl never told you ? Well, listen. Jacob
Larik, Narva's father, was a Jew ; they are a
vile race, but Jacob was an exception — he
was honest, and very rich. He traded in
furs, and he was clever and industrious, as
the Jews mostly are. He lived in one of
Larchoff's villages, unluckily. One day
Larchoff, who, like his son, was always in
want of money, went to Jacob, and said he
must pay down fifty thousand roubles or
pack up. Of course Jacob paid them. At

the end of six months Larchoff came down
on him for another fifty thousand. Jacob
paid again ; and so it went on until there was
no more blood in the stone. Then Jacob
fell on his knees and besought Larchoff, for
the sake of the God of Abraham, to spare
him and give him time to gain the money,
and he would go on working and paying
while he could ; but Larchoff spat on him,
and mocked him, and then went off and
denounced him as being deep in a plot
against the life of the Emperor. The poor
wretch was seized, and flogged and tortured
to make him confess ; and as he could not
confess, he was sent to Siberia. Fortunately
he died on the road.'

Oh my God ! . . . And Narva ?'
Narva was a small toddle at the time.
She and her brother Sergius and Madame
Larik came to live with us. Narva was
educated with Sibyl, Sergius with me ; he
was such a dear good fellow, and so clever !
He wanted to be a physician, and just after
old Larchoff died he passed his examinations

brilliantly. We were all proud of him, and
everybody made much of him ; all the
people in the district invited him and made a
fuss over him. It was very foolish, for it
enraged Larchoff Fils ; he knew that his
father had been hated for the murder, as it
was called, of old Jacob, and that he himself
was hated as much as his father. He resolved
to be revenged on us all by ruining
Sergius. He went and denounced the poor
fellow. Oh, it was a fiendish piece of
work !' muttered Basil, with suppressed
passion.

What happened him ?'

Serous ? He was sent to Siberia.'

And is he there still ?'

Yes — his bones are there. He lived three
years at the gold diggings, and then luckily
he died. Poor Sergius !' Basil's voice shook
with emotion.

After a silence Marguerite said, ' And
his mother, and Narva ?'

They lived through it, as people do. It
broke their hearts ; but people live with

VOL. 1. 2

broken hearts, as they do with broken legs.
We were all very fond of them. Sibyl and
Narva are like sisters ; my mother always
spoke of Narva as her adopted child, and
after her death the two were inseparable.'

And that cruel, horrid man stays on here ?
Does anybody speak to him ?'

Speak to him ! They cringe to him, they
lick his feet.'

You never speak to him ?'

I spoke to him no later than this afternoon.'


Oh !' in a tone of shocked astonishment.

My child, if I offended Larchoff, in spite
of my father's present influence at Court, he
would never rest till he had sent me and all
belonging to me after the Larks.'

Ts it possible? Why, he must be the devil!'

My sweet cousin, I began by telling you
that he was.'

And is there nothing to protect people
against him ? Is there no law In Russia ?'

'Yes; there is the law of might and cunning.'


After a moment's silence Marguerite said,
in a confidential sotto voce, looking up at
Basil :

I wonder why you don't get up a revolution.
If I were a Russian, I should be a
Nihilist — is not that what you call them ?'

Basil's eyes flashed, and he made a sudden
movement as if he would have caught her in
his arms ; but he checked himself, and said,
with a laugh :

If you preach treason of that sort, petite
Franchise, I will tell Larchoff", and you will
be escorted to the frontier immediately, and
perhaps get a whipping first.'

While this conversation was going on in
the deep recess of one window, Sibyl and
Narva were talking confidentially in another.

I wonder whether Basil thinks at all
seriously of Sophie ?' Sibyl remarked. ^ I
do long to see him married and out of harm's
way !'

Are you sure that to marry him to the
sister of Ivan Gorfl" would be taking him out
of harm's way ?'

2 — 2

Sibyl did not answer.

Supposing It were,' resumed Narva, ' I
could understand your overlooking a good
deal to make him settle down, as you say ;
but I can't see how the Prince should desire
such a marriage for his son. Paul Gorff was
a trader, and Ivan carries on his father's
business — on a grand scale, It is true ; still,
he Is In trade; and the daughter and sister
of a trader Is not the wife one would expect
Prince Zorokoff to select for his son.'

It Is hardly a selection. Who else Is
there to prefer to Sophie ? She is the only
girl in the district. Basil never goes to St.
Petersburg except to pay his court to the
Emperor and rush back. You know how he
entertains us caricaturing all the girls he sees
there ? Then Sophie's mother was noble ;
it was considered a dreadful disgrace her
making that mesalliance with Paul Gorff.
Besides, she Is sole heiress to her uncle's
enormous fortune, and Basil, with all his Indifference
to money, knows very well that It
Is not a thing to be despised ; for I suspect

my father is melting down his own fortune
and ours as fast as he can at St. Petersburg.'

Narva did not reply. She knew well
enough that the Gorff money-bags were the
bait that was making Prince Zorokoff swallow
his pride, and court the trader's pretty
daughter for his son. But w-ould Basil prove
an accomplice in the transaction ?

Basil is far too proud to make a mesalliance
for money,' continued Sibyl, contradicting
her last words, for she felt instinctively
what was in Narva's mind ; ' but he
does admire Sophie. Besides, he is so
chivalrous I believe he would make any
sacrifice to deliver her from that brute
Larchoff. Ivan says that Larchoff is trying
hard to ingratiate himself, and Sophie
naturally loathes the sight of him ; but if she
were to let Larchoff see this, the consequences
might be awful to herself and
Ivan. We know of what Larchoff is
capable.'

Yes,' replied Narva, in a level undertone ;
and it would not be pleasant to have his

vengeance turned upon Basil as a successful
rival.'

Before Sibyl could answer, M. de Beau-crimson
interrupted them.

It appears the whole house is in a commotion
about the wolf,' he said. ' My man
tells me they are prophesying the most appalling
events — fires, earthquakes, murders,
and I know not what — on the strength of it.'

^ They are a pack of fools !' Basil called
out, walking up with Marguerite through
the checkered light. ' That wolf came with
the best intentions, solely to amuse Marguerite.
To-morrow he will provide entertainment
for you by giving us an opportunity
to hunt him.'

Your Russian hospitality is sublime, mon
cher,' replied M. de Beaucrillon ; ' the very
wild beasts are summoned to contribute to
the enjoyment of your guests.'

And so, laughing, they went out of the
gallery together, and separated for the night.

i

THE HUNT.

HE sensation caused by the appearance
of the wolf was increased
rather than lessened next morning
by the prospect of a hunt, which diverted
the superstitious terrors of the household
into more healthy excitement. It was a
splendid day ; the sky was clear as sapphire,
and the frosty landscape glittered in the
morning light. The news had been taken
down to the village at daybreak, and when
the ladies came downstairs, the hunt was
assembled on the lawn, every available man
in the household being present with his gun ;
the villagers and moulins in their costumes

and sheepskins, the dogs in force, and all in
high good-humour.

Narva and Sibyl entered into the prospect
of the sport with keen gusto ; but though
Marguerite was alive to the picturesque side
of the adventure, the idea of a close encounter
with such ferocious game was too
terrifying to admit of her entering into it
with any sympathy.

Why not set traps for the wolf, instead of
exposing men's lives in going to hunt him ?'
she asked, as they watched the scene on the
lawn.

But then where would be the sport ?'
replied Narva.

Yes ; that is what the men delight in,'
said Sibyl ; * and that is what wolves are for
to make sport for them.'

It is the nature of men, I suppose, to like
such sport,' said Marguerite ; ' but I can't
understand your liking it for them. Just
think if the wolf were to turn on Gaston or
Basil, and kill either of them !'

Cherie, I'm not going to think anything

SO unpleasant,' cried Sibyl. ' You are a little
coward, you French girl !'

Yes, I am ; but at any rate I have the
courage of my cowardice — I'm not ashamed
to own it.'

There is no shame in being a coward for
those we love said Sibyl caressingly.

Marguerite blushed scarlet.

No,' she said ; ' I dare say even Gaston
would be frightened if he saw me going out
to fight a wolf.' Then, with a little sudden
turn of her head, she looked away.

Narva saw the blush, and saw the movement
to hide it. Did * those they love '
include for Marguerite somebody besides
Gaston ? Girls don't blush violently at being
suspected of cowardice on their brothers'
behalf.

Here comes Ivan Gorff/ said Sibyl, as
there emerged from round the clock tower
a broad-shouldered, loosely jointed, bushy-headed
young man.

Basil broke from a distant group to go and
greet him. As the two men walked up the

broad gravel path they presented a striking
contrast. Basil was the type of the polished,
highly civilized Russian seigneur, very tall,
with clear complexion, blue eyes, abundant
fair hair, and golden moustache ; his countenance
was frank and full of intelligence, with a
singular mobility of expression.

Ivan Gorff was by no means vulgar or ill-looking,
but his large head and massive
shoulders, his loosely built frame and his
heavy, shuffling gait, showed to increased
disadvantage beside the finely proportioned
figure and noble bearing of the young Prince.

Ivan paid his respects to the three ladies,
raising their hands to his lips after the
chivalrous fashion of his countrymen ; but he
performed the ceremony with a brztsquerie
which was the result not so much of shyness
as of a certain awkwardness that seems to be
inseparable from a badly built human frame.

'What does the village say, Ivan Gorff.'*'
inquired Sibyl.

It says that a pack of wolves, variously
estimated from five to five-and-twenty, came

down and kept up a howling round the castle
from midnight till dawn replied Ivan.

That is how history gets written,' observed
M. de Beaucrillon.

What do they say brought the wolf down ?'
inquired Sibyl.

They say he came for no good ; they are
terrified out of their wits.'

They are a pack of idiots said Basil ;
I suspect some rogue has been trapping
cubs in the forest, and the mother came down
to look for them. The howl sounded uncommonly
like the call of the she-wolf.'

That was the first thing that occurred
to me said Ivan; 'but they all swore they
knew nothing about cubs being trapped.'

They were sure to swear that anyhow
laughed Basil.

'By the way said Ivan, 'the wolf was
near trapping a cub of the devil's last night.
Larchoff came up with him on the road, and
if he had not put a bullet through the brute
in time, and sent him yelling away on three
legs, he was a dead man.'

Whom did he tell that stunning lie to ?'
asked Basil.

Father Christopher ; he met Larchoff
this morning on his way to see some sick
woman in the wood.'

I wish Father Christopher did not meet
him so often,' said Basil ; ' he may brave the
fellow once too often, and my father may
not be able to pull him out of his fangs.'

^ Father Christopher never thinks of that
said Narva ; ' he only thinks of sparing the
peasants, of putting himself between them
and Larchoff s cruelty. If it were not for
Father Christopher, Larchoff would be flaying
them alive, and flogging them of a morning
to get an appetite for his breakfast.'

Oh !' Marguerite gave a little scream.

She is only joking, cousin said Basil.
You should not say those things before her,'
he added, angrily, to Narva.

No ; it is bad for her French nerves,'
observed M. de Beaucrillon. He said it
seriously, almost solemnly ; but Sibyl suspected
he was mocking.

The Father is imprudent,' she remarked ;
it would be much better for everybody
concerned if he tried to conciliate Larchoff.'

Yes,' said Ivan ; ' if he would just 
him and flatter him a bit, it would
serve the peasants better.'

The Father is too honest to flatter anybody,'
said Narva, ' much less such a vile
thing as Larchoff.'

'Pshaw!' retorted Ivan — 'the notion of
wasting fine sentiment on a wolf ! One talks to
a fool according to his folly, and one treats a
savage as a savage. The Father will find out
his mistake too late if he doesn't change his
tactics towards Larchoff. Paul the cobbler
heard high words between them on the road
this morning ; he did not catch what the
quarrel was about, but Larchoff shouted, "If
you can't keep your tongue warm, you had
better pack up." *' I am always packed up,"
said the Father ; 'M am ready to start everyday,
and I would rather take the road to
Siberia this minute than abet your villainy by
holding my tongue." Paul saw them from

behind the wall, and he says Larchoff looked
like a mad bull and the Father like an angry
lion, his head thrown back and his white hair
fluttering

I wish the Father would try and keep
out of his way,' said Sibyl.

There is no keeping out of the devil's
way,' said Basil. ' He is always about,
seeking whom he may devour.'

A horn sounded from the lawn.

Come ! let us be on the march,' said Basil.

The three gentlemen went out, and presently
the hunt moved on. The ladies watched
it out of sight, but when Sibyl turned from
the window she missed Marguerite.

She has gone to pray that they may not be
devoured by the wolf,' said Narva, in answer
to her companion's exclamation of surprise.

Does she care so very much, do you think
I mean for Basil ?'

She cares enough, I dare say, to say a
prayer for him in an emergency.'

Sibyl sat down to her tapestry. Narva
stood looking out of the window.

What a blessing it would be if Basil
were to fall in love with Marguerite !' said
Sibyl, with a sigh as soft and long-drawn
as the silk she was pulling through her
canvas.

Narva save a curious smile. ' You were
heaving a heavy sigh last night that he might
fall in love with Sophie.'

I would sigh for a month if it would help
him to fall in love with Marguerite. Sophie
has some essentials that would suit, but
Marguerite has everything. And she is so
gentle !'

Are you sure such a gentle wife is what
Basil wants ?'

He admires gentleness in a woman immensely.
Most men do.'

It does not follow that it would suit him
best. Basil wants a wife whom he could
lean upon — a woman who would guide him.
Now, Sophie has plenty of character, and a
very strong will ; she turns her brother round
her finger.'

I should not like Basil to be turned round

his wife's finger. But you are mistaken in
fancying that Marguerite lacks character ;
she has plenty of character, only it is kept
down by her French training. Wait till she
is married, and then you will see how she
will develop. French girls are all like
that.'

Would she marry a schismatic ?'

Ah, that is the one obstacle ! But if
Basil tried, I am certain he might overcome
it. If he would only make Marguerite fall in
love with him !'

Something magnetic made Sibyl turn and
look at Narva.

Why do you smile like that ?' she said.
Don't you think a girl might love Basil .'^'

You and I have managed to love him.'

How silly you are sometimes with all
your cleverness, Narva ! I mean a girl who
is nothing to him. If I were a girl — not his
sister — I am sure I should easily fall in love
with him. Don't you think you could '^. — if
he tried to make you }'

Perhaps. The Princess used to say that

a woman never could tell whether a man
could make her love him or not until he tried.
I dare say she was right.'

Sibyl raised her right hand, and let it drop
lightly on the canvas with a gesture of utter
amazement. ' To think that you of all women
should not believe Basil capable of winning
any girl he set his heart on !' she exclaimed
* Basil, who has everything that can make
a man charming !'

Charm is very much a matter of individual
taste and sympathy,' said Narva, and she
lapsed into silence.

Presently, she turned from the window and
went to the piano, and sat down, running her
fingers over the keys in an impromptu
prelude ; she accompanied it at first ina
low, almost inarticulate, murmur ; but by
degrees the tones rose, and the rich voice
gave forth its power, uttering in music the
passionate thought that seemed so often
folded in Narva's silence, and never expressed
itself freely but in song. Her voice was one
of those rare and splendid instruments that

VOL. I. -x

combine every quality: the warm, mellow tones
of a contralto, and the range of a soprano,
the high notes ringing out with bell-like
clearness, while the lower ones were soft as
poured out oil ; it was a voice that would have
made a fortune on the stage, so powerful it
was, so brilliant, and at the same time of such
melting sweetness. Narva never looked so
beautiful as when she was singing, and she
would go on warbling and trilling for hours,
never tired, like a bird whose natural speech
was song.

Narva AND MARGUERITE EXCHANGE VIEWS
ABOUT MANY THINGS.

HE wolf-hunt proved a failure.
The sportsmen came home without
having seen or scented the
game of which they had gone in search. It
had been ascertained, however, that a peasant
in one of Larchoffs villages had trapped a
cub two days before, and carried it off to his
family in the village beyond Yrakow. This
discovery was a great relief to the population,
and calmed their terrors by giving a natural explanation
to the premature appearance of the
unwelcome visitor : it was evident the mother
had come down to look for her stolen cub.

3—2

'All the same,' Narva remarked, 'I wish
the week were past, and that we were safe
over the adventure.'

You don't seriously believe that it forebodes
evil ?' said M. de Beaucrillon, looking
at her with amused incredulity.

I seriously believe in precedent and
tradition,' replied Narva. 'It is a thing
unprecedented for the wolf to come down
before the snow without some calamity
suddenly following. In the Prince's childhood
a wolf was seen in the village one night
in October, and the next day a fire broke
out, and two-thirds of the houses were burnt
down.'

That is conclusive evidence, certainly ; the
wolf was an incendiary,' observed M. de
Beaucrillon gravely.

It is very well for you to laugh, Gaston,?
said Sibyl ; * but you have your superstitions
in Burgundy too, and traditions and precedents
that everybody at Beaucrillon believes
in. I wish we were safe over the week.'

A week is the limit of the danger V said

Gaston, with provoking coolness ; ' if it is not
fulfilled within that time, the wolf is voted a
false prophet ?'

It so happens that hitherto it always has
been fulfilled within the week,' replied Sibyl.

M. de Beaucrillon in his secret soul hoped
that it would be fulfilled this week. He was
beginning to feel the place so deadly dull that
it would have been a mercy if the woK
brought any change to enliven things. Even
a fire in the village would be better than
nothing. Gaston had only been three weeks
at Yrakow, and it was palling on him
horribly. The magnificent vastness of the
castle, the barbaric splendour of the interior,
the immensity of the grounds, the immensity
of the forest, the scale of immensity on which
everything within and without was constructed,
made the sense of desolateness
produced by the smallness of the social
element proportionately immense. The immobility
of life in this enormous palace, with
its galleries as long as streets, and its rooms
as big as courts, and its halls as vast as

ordinary squares, was overpowering. There
were seventy servants in the household, but
they made no more Hfe in the place than
the flies on the pane. M. de Beaucrillon
sauntered through the vast apartments, and
smoked countless cigars, and felt as if he
were walking in an enchanted castle where
everybody was under a spell of somnolence.
Basil was an excellent host, and did all he
could to wake up the sleeping inhabitants,
but Basil himself was under the spell. He
did not understand the need for being always
awake ; he went spasmodically from mercurial
activity to absolute idleness, from
hunting a wolf, and similar outdoor exercises,
to lounging by the hour on the flat of his
back with a cigar in his mouth ; he spent
hours dreaming and writing in his private
study, emerging thence in alternate moods of
high excitement and profound melancholy.
M. de Beaucrillon was very fond of his
brother-in-law, but he did not understand
him ; Basil, for all his physical strength and
reckless courage, seemed to him more a

woman than a man, a creature made up of
contradictions, of impulses, of passionate
emotions and exaggerations.

The day after the hunt, Marguerite and
Narva went out for a ride. As they passed
through the village, Narva pointed out the
cottage where she and her mother resided
since Sibyl's marriage.

'You must take me to pay a visit to
Madame Larik as soon as she's well enough,'
said Marguerite. ' When will that be ?'

In a few days, 1 hope,' Narva replied,
looking pleased and grateful. * She has been
much better this last week, and has had good
nights : that is why I have been able to stay
at the castle. It is seldom that her rheumatism
is so bad at this season, poor dear
mother !'

Ought she not to go to some German
baths for it ?' inquired Marguerite.

Yes, she ought ; and I hope some day to
be able to take her to Aix-la-chapelle. Some
day sounds vague,' Narva added, in answer
to a look in Marguerite's face ; ' but we are

waiting for a legacy that is to come to us
from an old relative of mother's. I have
never seen him, so it is not very wicked of
me to look forward to enjoy his money — is
it ? And the doctor assures me Aix would
do wonders for my mother.'

And then you will come on and spend
the autumn at Beaucrillon, and the winter in
Paris.'

That would be a charming programme,'
said Narva, smiling ; 'but mother has a great
desire to spend a month in Munich, her
native place, and then to make a little tour in
Germany ; and I don't know whether the
legacy would admit of all that and a journey
to France ; though, with our simple habits, a
little money goes a long way.'

Marguerite had lost sight of this fact in
Narva's position, that she and her mother
were very poor, dependent almost wholly on
the generosity of the Zorokoffs, who had
given them a cottage and a large garden.

But you have travelled already ?' Marguerite
said.

I have been to St. Petersburg several
times with the Princess ; we spent some
winters there, and had masters. It was
there chiefly that I learned singing. The
Princess had me taught by a great Italian
master from Rome. What a delightful man
he was, and how I did enjoy his lessons ! We
used to go twice a week to the opera. Your
aunt was so good to me ! She was an angel,
the Princess. I used to be so sorry she
was not Russian.'

Marguerite smiled.

I hope you will come soon to France and
stay with us,' she said. * I do so long to
convert you !'

That would be a cruel trick to play me.
I should be either sent to Siberia, or put into
a dungeon for the rest of my life.'

Oh ! I did not mean a religious conversion
; I meant to convert you to being a little
more French and a little less Russian. They
would not put you in prison for that ?'

No, they would not put me in prison for
that. But ought you not to be satisfied with

having converted Sibyl ? Don't you think
she is a very creditable convert ?'

Well, yes, on the whole ; but she has
many heresies still. She maintains, for instance,
that the climate here is better than in
France ; that she never felt the cold in St.
Petersburg as she does in Paris. She also
clings to the belief that a paternal Muscovite
government is the best in the world. There
is only one point on which her conversion is
entirely satisfactory : she admits that French
husbands are perfection. Would it be hopeless
to try to convert you to that belief,
Narva ?'

Quite !' — spoken very emphatically.

How heartily you say that ! I don't
wonder you owe a grudge to the race for
having stolen away Sibyl. What a loss she
must have been to you !'

Not to me only ; her departure left all
these poor people ' — glancing round over
the country — ' at the mercy of the Jews and
the bureaucrats, who prey on them like
wolves.'

But doesn't the Prince and Basil protect
them ?'

Basil does what he can ; but he has not
much power. As to the Prince, he is nearly
always at St. Petersburg, looking after the
future. Meanwhile the Stanovoi, who is a
grasping, cruel man, has it all his own way;
he and Larchoff are in league — a pair of
devils !'

The Prince must be a very odd man,'
Marguerite said, looking confidential ; ' my
maid tells me stories about his goings-on
when he is here that would make one think
he was stark, staring mad.'

Narva laughed.

I dare say he would be locked up as a
lunatic in any country except Russia ; but his
madness is harmless enough — more so, indeed,
than his sameness. He keeps everybody
in commotion day and night while he is
here. He never goes to bed, or undresses, at
night ; he smokes and drops asleep in a chair,
sitting bolt-upright ; every now and then he
falls off his chair and bangs himself on the

ground ; and then he starts up, seizes his
gun, that is always beside him, rushes to the
window, and fires out at the night. He does
this four times, rushing to the four sides of
the house as fast as he can go, and throwing
open the windows with as much noise as he
can make. Sibyl and Basil had the greatest
difficulty to prevent him doing it this last
time ; they said you would all be so frightened,
and they should not know what to say to you
to explain it.'

Marguerite's eyes grew round with amazement.
' And was that why the Prince ran
away in such a hurry ?'

Probably that had something to do with
his flight. He says he can never sleep a
night through here without exercising himself
in firearms, and he pretends it is protection
to the village against wolves and Larchoff.'

He certainly would pass for a lunatic in
France,' said Marguerite, her face breaking
into dimples of communicative laughter. ' And
used he to go on in that way when Aunt
Isabelle was alive ?'

Not SO badly. She kept him In order.
He gave her his word once that he would not
fire at the stars for a month ; one night,
however, he jumped out of bed and emptied
his revolver through the window as fast ashe
could shoot. The Princess rushed in, and
caught him in the act; but he declared he
had been asleep and dreaming, and had no
intention of breaking his word, and begged
her pardon, and went back to bed. Presently
she and all of us heard a noise
from downstairs of some one howling in
pain. We all rushed out to see what was the
matter, and there in the middle of the hall
was the Prince whipping himself with all his
might, and roaring like a bull. He said he
could not go to sleep with remorse for having
broken his word, and felt he must get up and
whip himself, as he would have had one of
the servants whipped for offending in the
same way. The Princess besought him to
stop, but he would not ; he went on whipping
and yelling till he had given himself the
number of stripes he thought proper, and

then he went up to bed ; his back was scarred
with webs, and hurt him for days.'

Marguerite was seized with such an immoderate
fit of laughter that she had to rein
in her horse, and go at a foot-pace. ' Why,
he is as mad as any maniac in Clarendon !'
she exclaimed, when she was able to speak.

He is a little eccentric,' said Narva ; * but
his eccentricities are all very harmless. The
Princess kept them within bounds, and so
did Sibyl in a lesser degree.'

I don't wonder you miss Sibyl.'

They cantered on a little way without
speaking.

There is one good thing that has come tome
out of Sibyl's departure,' Narva resumed ;
it has led to mother's and my living in the
village. This I count a great blessing. You
can't get really to sympathize with the sufferings
of people, and help them, until you come
close enough to share them ; we never realize
them so long as we are in a fool's paradise of
luxury and ease. The pain of poverty is like
every other pain ; nothing but personal experience

can make us understand it, and teach
us the kind of relief it wants. It is like a
man born in the tropics trying to realize cold
from a description in a book. He never could
do it. No description could give him the
physical sensation of feet and hands tingling
and perishing, of blood chilled in his veins, of
eyes blinded and smarting in a bitter north
wind ; he must leave the tropics and go up
into a Northern climate to know what it all
means. Now, to live in a great palace amidst
luxury and abundance of every sort is like
living in the tropics. I never realized what
our wretched peasants had to endure until I
came to live amongst them in the village, and
saw how they suffer in every way — from
poverty, from the climate, from ignorance ;
above all, from the cruelty of the Government
officials.'

But is there no redress against that ?
Is there no justice to be had for them ?'

• Father Christopher keeps telling them
they will get redress in the next world.'

Even in this there are laws to protect the

weak against the strong. God has not left
Himself without witnesses on the earth.'

I wonder where His witnesses are In
Russia ?' Narva laughed.

'The people themselves are His witnesses
; they believe and they hope in Him.'

Then why does He confound their hope ?
Why does He let them be crushed and
tortured and destroyed ?'

Oh, Narva, that satanic " why '' is always
in your mouth !'

^ It is in the mouth of the people everywhere,
because everywhere they are downtrodden,
and oppressed, and made to suffer
injustice.'

'Not in France,' protested Marguerite ;
the people are not down-trodden with us.'

They are in Russia. And why should
they be ? Why does God permit it .-^ If
His justice is anywhere on earth, it ought to
be everywhere — in Russia as well as In
France.'

Wrong cannot be made right in a day.
We must be patient.'

We are patient, heroically patient — under
the wrongs and sufferings of others !' The
passionate irony in Narva's voice sounded
more hitter than the words themselves.

I am sure we are trying to make the
world less bad and life less hard on the
poor,' said Marguerite. ' Don't you think
that they have much less to suffer now than
they had a thousand years ago — or even a
hundred ?'

In France, I dare say, thanks to your
glorious Revolution.'

Oh, Narva ! you call it glorious ? That
dreadful reign of terror, when the people
rose up against God and murdered the
King !' Marguerite felt again that vague
repulsion which had made her more than
once shrink away from Narva.

'The people rose against a reign of tyranny
which had ended by driving them mad.
Would that Russia could follow the example
of France, and have her revolution !'

Marguerite was shocked at the passionate
hatred expressed in Narva's tone and words ;

VOL. T. 4

but she remembered her father dropping on
the road into exile, and her young brother
dying in Siberia, and revulsion gave way to
pity.

If you ever make a revolution in Russia
she said, ' let it be a revolution of love, not of
hate.'

Narva laughed. 'And burst our chains by
kissing them !'

There is nothing love might not do if
people would only believe in it,' said
Marguerite ; ' if only they would let it rule
the world instead of hatred. If they would
let it have its way, like the blessed sunshine,
it would turn this world into a paradise. I
wonder why people can't believe in love ?'

As she threw back her head, and put
this question to the winter sky, there was a
light in her eyes that contrasted strikingly
with the flame in Narva's — the light of love
and the flame of hate — hate, just in its cause
and cruelly provoked, but even in those
beautiful eyes its effect was repulsive.

Narva was surprised to see what strength

of feeling lay beneath the bright, buoyant, and
seemingly thoughtless happiness of the young
French girl. Sibyl was right : there were
slumbering forces underlying Marguerite's
nature which only needed certain opportunities
to develop. Narva felt this recognition
forced upon her, and she would not perhaps
have acknowledged that the discovery caused
her something like a sense of alarm, or disappointment.


The two girls, as by tacit consent, put their
horses into a canter, and rode on a long way
without exchanging a word.

At last Narva said, ' We must not forget
that we have to get back.' She looked at her
watch, and saw that it was four o'clock.

They turned their horses' heads homeward.


In those North-eastern countries the twilight
is short, and night closes in almost as
suddenly as the dropping of a curtain.

When they re-entered the village of
Yrakow it was growing dark ; the moon had
risen, and a few stars had sprung out. Just

4 — 2Y

.SnV OF ILLINOIS

as the castle came in sight, the two riders
were startled by shrieks that seemed to come
from the forest. They pulled up their horses
and stopped to listen. In a moment the
groom, whom a curve in the road had hidden,
came trotting up, and said something in
Russian which evidently alarmed Narva.
She was going to turn back, when some
further information from the servant caused
her to change her intention, and they rode
slowly on.

'What has happened?' inquired Marguerite.


He does not know, but he saw Sophie
Gorff running from the road without anything
on her head.'

Was she running from the wolf, do you
think ?'

That is not likely : the wolf would have
been pursuing her.'

Narva stopped her horse again, and hesitated
; but after a short parley with the
groom she rode on.

Sophie is out of harm's way now, at any

rate,' she said. ' Dmitri saw her cross the
road towards her own house. What could it
have been ?'

Moved by lingering curiosity, they both
cast a backward glance toward the forest.
As they looked, they heard the report of a
gun.

Who can be shooting at this hour ?' exclaimed
Narva. ' It must be as black as
night in the forest.'

Presently they saw the figure of a man
carrying a gun emerge from the road adjoining
the park.

It is Basil, I do believe !' said Marguerite.
I dare say it was he who frightened Sophie.'
She called out and made signs with her whip ;
but Basil held on his way, and strode across
the park without looking round.

How stupid of him not to hear !' said
Marguerite.

Perhaps he hears, but does not want to
come out of his way.'

Is he such a boor as to do that ? No
Frenchman alive would be capable of anything

so rude !' protested Marguerite indignantly.


Narva's face positively beamed as she
looked at her. ' You think Frenchmen are
so much more gallant ? You think the
Russians are boors ?'

I think Basil is behaving like a boor, and
I shall tell him so,' said Marguerite, with the
prettiest show of offended dignity.

Narva gave a light laugh that sounded
musically pleasant.

I want to stop a few minutes here,' Marguerite
said, as they came to the little
Catholic chapel. ' Do you mind going on
alone, and leaving Dmitri to hold my
horse ?'

Why may I not wait and come in with
you ?' said Narva.

Oh ! if you don't mind.'

They both alighted and went in.

The chapel was merely an oratory attached
to the house where Father Christopher lived.
It had been built for him by the Princess
when his office of tutor to Basil came to an

end. The Roman Catholics at Yrakow were
few, and these, with others scattered through
neighbouring villages on Prince Zorokoff's
estates, were the only persons who profited by
the old priest's ministry. His congregation was
composed chiefly of foreigners —professors
and servants — residing in families or living
in the villages ; but, small as it was, it gave
him a good deal to do, owing to the distances
over which it was scattered. He had to visit
the sick in places a long way off, and these
distant visits were one of the whips that
Larchoff held over the Father's head. They
afforded an outward semblance of truth to the
charge of proselytizing which Larchoff was
constantly threatening to bring against him,
and which in Russia is regarded as a heinous
crime, visited, like high treason, with the
penalty of death.

The little chapel was almost dark, there
being no light save the red glow of the sanctuary
lamp. A few worshippers were kneeling
in the shadows, waiting for Father
Christopher to come into the confessional.

Marguerite knelt down at the altar-rail, and
was at once absorbed in her devotions.
Narva, from a prie-dieu a little behind,
watched her with an odd mixture of admiration,
envy, and satisfaction. The faith that
could thus absorb a human being in an
instant must be very strong — too strong to
be shaken by any earthly feelings, by any
mundane interests, by any promptings of
passion. Narva had had a glimpse into
Marguerite's nature, and that glimpse had
shown her, beneath the light, childlike
exterior, a woman endowed with a supernatural
creed which makes the weakest
creature invulnerable against self, fitting her
to cope victoriously with perils against which
mere natural strength is frail and faithless.
How fervently the girl prayed ! In the red
light of the lamp above her, Narva could see
her lips moving rapidly. She envied her
being able to pray like that. But it was easy
for Marguerite to do so ; it was easy for her
to believe in God's love, and call Him
Father, and ask that His will might be done.

He had been a father to her, and His will
had been always kind and loving. He had
not tried her faith by injustice and cruel
wrong ; He had not confounded her hope
and turned it to despair. The loss of faith
in an Almighty love was perhaps the bitterest
suffering which the hard ways of God and
man inflicted on their helpless victims, Narva
thought, as she watched the happy young
French girl lifting up her heart in prayer.

They had not been many minutes in the
chapel when Father Christopher entered from
the sacristy, and after kneeling a moment
before the tabernacle, went into the confessional.


Marguerite stood up, and whispered to
Narva:

'Would there be time for me to wait and
go to confession now ?'

'Oh no,' Narva replied; 'it is too late.
You had better come tomorrow morning.
You will find him before mass.'

Marguerite assented, and they went out
and rode home.

THE EVIL OMEN COMES TRUE.

HE family were now assembled in
the drawing-room : Sibyl busy at
her tapestry ; Narva sitting, with
her slim white hands in her lap, waiting to
pour out the tea ; Marguerite turning over
the leaves of a book of old engravings with
an air of excited interest ; M. de Beaucrillon
deep in his newspapers ; and Basil measuring
the long length of the room, slowly pacing
up and down, his hands in his pockets, and a
cigarette in his mouth, his handsome face
clouded by an air of abstraction, almost of
sadness, as if his thoughts were far away
from the company grouped round the lamp.

Presently, passing near the table, he looked
up, and his eyes rested on his cousin. It
was a picture on which any man's eyes must
have rested complacently. Marguerite's face
had little claim to admiration beside Sibyl's
blond loveliness and Narva's rich beauty
of line and colour, nevertheless there was
a charm about its irregular features that
made it no contemptible rival to either. It
was the very personification of youthful
brightness and health ; the small spirited
nose was more piquant than if it had been
classical, and the whole face sparkled with
happiness and curiosity.

This evening all her prettiness and brightness
were further enhanced by an irresistible
little demi-toilet of a white gauzy
material, rose-coloured ribbons in bows and
loops sprouting out of the white foam as naturally
as the rose-coloured flower sprouted out
of the curls and coils of her glossy brown
hair.

Marguerite was intent on the engravings.
Suddenly, with an exclamation of dismay,

Sibyl,' she cried, ' I have made a dreadful
mistake !'

They all looked up, interested and attentive.
Basil stopped in his walk to hear.

That head-dress that I sketched and sent
to Paris for will be out of keeping. 1 now
remember it was in a portrait of Velasquez
that I saw it ; so fancy how it will clash with
that Florentine thirteenth-century costume !
What shall I do ?'

•' What were we all thinking about ?' said
Sibyl. Then, after a moment's reflection :
Really, ma cherie,' she added, ' I don't think
you need worry about it. No one here is
likely to find out the anachronism. If it were
in Paris '

That is a pretty character you are giving
us,' said Basil, who had been listening with
intense amusement to Marguerite's distressing
confession ; ' you want to make out that
in Russia we are a set of barbarians and
dunces }'

Dear, I would not worry about ic,' Sibyl
continued, addressing herself with sympathetic

earnestness to Marguerite ; ' as a head-dress
it will suit you beautifully, and that is the
great point. Not that I fully approved of
your choice of the costume ; you know I said
I thought a Greuze would suit you better.'

A Greuze !' exclaimed Basil, contemptuously,
and he threw his hands up to the
ceiling ; ' trust one pretty woman for advising
another to her ruin ! You ought to have
consulted a man, cousin ; you ought to have
consulted me ; I would have advised you
honestly, to your advantage. Since you won't
be Red Riding Hood, and let me play Wolf to
you, why shouldn't you go as Jezebel ? or
Judith ? — Jezebel with a hatchet, or Judith
with a drawn sword ? I'll lend you one as
big as yourself, and show you how to carry
it. You would look superbly tragic in a
Jewish turban. Or, if you like something
more modern, there is Charlotte Corday '

Marguerite seized one of Sibyl's balls oi
wool, took aim, and hit the scoffer right on
the nose.

Bravo ! What a capital shot ! If this

had been a bullet aimed at my heart, I was
a dead man,' said Basil, catching the ball and
weighing it in his hand. ' By the way, as
you are such a shot, little cousin, why should
not you go as Diana the huntress ? I will
teach you how to draw the bow, if you like.'

Cousin Basil,' said Marguerite, slapping
the engraving of Anne of Austria with a
heavy paper-knife, and facing her tormentor,
I can't think why I don't hate and detest
you, for you aggravate me more than anybody
I know.'

That is precisely why,' said Basil.
'Why what ?'

Why you are so fond of me. It's because
I aggravate you.'

Oh !sis it ? Well, just leave off aggravating,
and see if I don't grow fonder and
fonder of you.'

You might grow too fond of me !' surveying
her with a comical air of alarm.

She glanced up at him with a flash of
mirth and mischief in her brown eyes.
Well,' she said slowly, as if weighing consequences,

' I might ; but I'll risk it, if you
don't mind.'

He sat down opposite to her, leaned forward,
and began stroking his silken beard
meditatively ; this skirmishing with his pretty
cousin was delightful. ' It is a desperate risk
for me to run,' he remarked solemnly.

Run it !' cried Sibyl, entering merrily into
the fray ; ' don't be a coward !'

I'll tell you what,' said Marguerite, slapping
Anne of Austria again with the paperknife,
' here are three competent judges ;
there is Narva, an artist and a mystic ;
Sibyl, a superior and cultivated woman ;
Gaston, a philanthropist and a politician . . .'

Heavens ! what names you are giving us
all !' protested M. de Beaucrillon, laying down
his newspaper, and looking up in surprise.

Something in her brother's astonished face,
or perhaps a twinkle in Basil's eye, recalled
Marguerite to the fact that she was on slippery
ground. Cutting short the appeal she was
about to make to the three judges, ' I wish
Gaston would tell you not to be so disagreeable,'

she said, turning away like a naughty
child, and blushing as red as the flower in
her hair.

For goodness' sake don't set them fighting,
or there will be no living in the house !'
protested Sibyl, coming to the rescue with
her subtle tact, for she saw Marguerite's
embarrassment ; ' and we shall want peace
amongst ourselves if we are to keep any kind
of order amongst our friends and relations.'

By the way, how many are we going to
be, all told — have you any ideas' asked Basil.

About three hundred.'

All staying in the house !' exclaimed
Marguerite. ' Why ! how many guest-rooms
have you ?'

Seventy-five,' replied Sibyl. * But then
there is the armoury; about a hundred manage
to sleep there; they did at my marriage.'

But there are no beds in the armoury!' said
Marguerite, more and more amazed.

We don't put up beds,' responded Basil ;
people bring their own beds and pillows ;
that is our barbarian mode of proceeding.'

What fun !' said Marguerite. ' It must
be like camping out, with all the warriors and
coats of mail mounting guard over one. I
dare say the visitors enjoy it very much.'

They seemed to do so last time, if one
might judge from the noise they made,' remarked
Narva, who had been silent for a
long time, and was watching Marguerite with
a coldly critical expression that would have
frightened the girl if she had noticed it ;
they kept it up till all hours of the morning,
and I got no sleep, for my room was
over the encampment.'

They did make a most infernal racket one
night !' said Basil, with a boyish laugh, as if
the recollection of the racket were very
pleasant. ' Some madcap proposed that they
should all get into the coats of mail and
march out into the park like a phantom procession,
and frighten the wits out of everybody.
The joke was at once adopted, and
they were buckling themselves into the
armour, when Larchoff, who was too drunk
to know what he was about, pulled off his
VOL. I. 5

boot and began to hammer at some warrior's
helmet. They had to fall on him, half a
dozen of them, and strap him Into a big suit
of mail, and then bind his legs so that he
had to lie quiet. He bellowed under the
operation like a bull. It was awful ! No
wonder Narva could not sleep. I hope you
won't put Larchoff in the armoury this time,
Sibyl ?'

You don't mean to say that that dreadful
man is invited !' Marguerite exclaimed in a
tone of incredulity.

He was not Invited then said Sibyl ; ' but
he thought It would be pleasant, so he came
without being asked. Larchoff ne se gene
pas.'

I can't understand your letting him into
the house at all,' said Marguerite.

My cousin, there are many things In this
country that you can't understand,' remarked
Basil, with a peculiar laugh.

There were, indeed, very few things In
Russian life, It seemed to Marguerite, that
she could understand. The mixture of Oriental

magnificence and barbarous discomfort,
of lavish expenditure and shabby makeshifts
letting guests bring their bedding and encamp
on floors, and then setting them gold
plate to eat off — these things were in their
way as puzzling to her as that Prince Zorokoff
should tolerate under his roof and admit to
his table such a wretch as Larchoff.

M. de Beaucrillon had not been joining in
the conversation — he had been deep in his
newspapers ; but he had now finished them,
and got up and drew a chair to the tea-table.


Mademoiselle, I should like a cup of tea,'
he said.

Narva took the teapot from the samovar,
and was proceeding to pour out the tea, when
the door opened, and Vasili, Basil's valet,
pale and scared, stood on the threshold, and
said something in Russian. It was answered
by an exclamation of horror from the three
who understood.

What is the matter ?' asked M. de Beau-crimson.


5—2

The man, who spoke French freely, replied
:

Count Larchoff has been murdered !'

For a moment, horror seemed to have
rendered everyone speechless ; then they
plied Vasili with questions. His story was
short :

Two peasants had found the Count lying
in the forest with a gunshot wound in
his chest ; they thought he was dead, and
carried him to the nearest cottage ; he
regained consciousness, and tried hard to
say something, but no one could understand.
At last they distinguished the words,
Forgive ! forgive ! . . . Father Christopher
! . . / They thought he wanted to
confess, and some one ran for Father Christopher,
while two others fetched the doctor
and the pope. Father Christopher was
nearest ; he was in the confessional when the
message came, and rushed out just as he was.
When he got to the cottage, Larchoff was
still breathing. By the time the pope arrived
it was all over.

Who brought this news ?' asked Basil.

Paul, the cobbler.'

'And at what time Is it supposed the
murder was committed ?'

About sundown. The Count was found
at eight o'clock, and the doctor said the
wound must have bled for three or four
hours.'

Oh, Narva !' cried Marguerite, turning a
shade paler, ' that must have been the shot
we heard !'

She stopped short, terrified by the expression
on Narva's face ; and glancing involuntarily
toward Basil, she read an answering
horror In his eyes.

Sibyl and Gaston, who were trying to
elicit further details from Vashti, had noticed
nothing ; but a sudden noise made them look
quickly round.

Marguerite had fainted. She fell forward,
and must have fallen to the ground if Basil
had not caught her in his arms.

Poor child ! No wonder she is overcome !'
Sibyl exclaimed, rushing to assist.

Basil carried the fainting girl to a divan,
and laid her gently down.

'You had better go away, both of you,
and leave her to us,' Sibyl said. ' It will be
nothing.'

The two gentlemen saw they could be of
no use, and went away, Gaston too much
excited by the awful event which had caused
Marguerite's swoon to attach much importance
to so natural an accident.

The swoon lasted nearly an hour, in spite
of Sibyl's incessant application of restoratives,
and Narva's constant friction of Marguerite's
hands and feet.

When at last Marguerite opened her eyes
and gave signs of returning consciousness,
Narva said :

We had better let her sit up now. Bring
a cushion from the red sofa — a big one.'
Then, Sibyl having moved away, she bent
over Marguerite, and said in a whisper,
Don't let idle fears disturb you, dear. Keep
perfect silence for a while.'

She raised her to a sitting position, Sibyl

propped her up tenderly, and then, at
Narva's suggestion, they left her to recover
herself.

Meantime, Basil and Gaston had gone
round to the servants' hall to see Paul the cobbler,
and hear the ghastly story over again.

Let us go down to the village and see
Father Christopher,' said Gaston, when Paul
had confirmed the few details given by Vasili ;
wee shall hear if anyone is suspected of the
murder, and if Larchoff was really conscious
when the Father saw him.'

Basil seemed reluctant ; he urged that the
Father could not possibly have any more to
tell than they had already heard. Gaston,
however, was bent on it ; so they went.
It was a beautiful starlight night, but as a
matter of course a number of servants lighted
lanterns as if it had been pitch-dark, and
accompanied the two gentlemen. M. de
Beaucrillon would have liked to talk with
them, to hear what they thought about the
crime — whether their instinct or information
pointed with any suspicion to the murderer ;

but he could not speak Russian, and none of
them spoke French, and Basil seemed too
stunned to be willing to play the Interpreter ;
he let his companion keep up a monologue
without uttering a word.

I suppose these crimes are not frequent
in the rural districts in Russia ? The people
in their hearts cannot be sorry to be rid of
such a devil, and yet I dare say they will not
try to screen the murderer from the police ?
The Russian police are wonderfully clever, I
believe, but one only hears of them as political
agents,' etc.

Basil never opened his lips to any of these
obviously interrogative remarks ; but when
Gaston said something about the probable
difficulty of finding direct evidence to bring
the criminal to justice, he retorted, with
sudden vehemence :

'Justice! They will call the bullet that
struck down Larchoff justice ! The man who
fired it will not be a criminal In the eyes of
any man, or woman either, in the country fora
hundred miles round. They won't call the

deed murder ; they will call it God's justice
overtaking the wicked.'

M. de Beaucrillon had not expected to see
Basil moved by any feeling of pity for the
wretched man whose hands had been a
scourge and a sword dealing pain and death
unmercifully to his people, but it shocked
him a little to hear Sibyl's brother speak in a
tone of almost triumphant approval of the
bloody deed itself. He made no further
comment, and they walked on in silence to
Father Christopher's door.

The old priest had just returned from the
dead man's house ; he was the only person
who had accompanied the body thither from
the peasant's cottage where it had first been
carried. No one else was willing to pay that
tribute of respect to Larchoff.

You have heard the news ?' said the
Father.

'Was he conscious when you got there,
Father?' inquired M. de Beaucrillon.

I think he was ; 'I hope he was. I questioned
him, and made an act of faith and

contrition, and he pressed my hand very
distinctly, and made convulsive efforts to
speak. It was awful to see. I pronounced
the absolution over him conditionally.'

Basil gave a short, explosive laugh, that
sounded horrible in Gaston's ears. Father
Christopher winced perceptibly ; he pulled
his bereft forward, then pushed it back.

Is anyone suspected of the murder?' inquired
Gaston.

They are saying it was accidental. The
forest has been full of men on the look-out
for the wolf, and they think that Larchoff
may have been shot by one of them in mistake.'


Is that likely ?' asked M. de Beaucrillon.

It is possible.'

There was a pause. 'Only this morning,'
said Father Christopher, breaking it, 'the
unfortunate man met me, and threatened to
send me to Siberia for proselytizing. He
had begun by telling me of the escape he
had had of being killed by the wolf, riding
home last night — how he had fired and hit

him just in time. I didn't believe him.
Perhaps he was speaking the truth.'

If so, it was the first time it ever happened
to him,' said Basil.

Well, he has gone before the judgment-seat,'
said the Father. ' May God have mercy
on him !'

Mercy on Larchoff ! The devil owes him
some, for he did his work well.'

Basil's handsome features were positively
ugly with the expression of hatred that
passed over them. Father Christopher had
never seen such an expression on his face
before. It suddenly occurred to him that
Sibyl had more than once expressed uneasy
suspicions about her brother having been
lured into associations of some sort with men
who made crime and vengeance a part of
their political creed. Father Christopher
had never attached much importance to these
fears ; he believed that Basil was incapable
of practically committing himself to such dark
theories, though he might, partly from instinctive
hatred of the cruelties that had provoked

them, partly from a spirit of opposition, talk
as if he sympathized with them. If the
Father had been alone with Basil he would
have challenged him then and there, and
insisted on knowing the truth ; for though
his old pupil was now a man of four-and-twenty,
Father Christopher still looked upon
him as a boy, and spoke to him with the
frank boldness of a master.

The village is in a state of great excitements
he remarked, wishing to divert M. de
Beaucrillon's attention from Basil's strange
demeanour ; ' there will be little sleep in it
to-night.'

I will go down and see Ivan Gorff,' said
Basil.

You won't find him,' said Father Christopher
; ' he rode into X. this afternoon, and
he had not returned an hour ago. That
zealous gossip, Paul, went there to tell of the
murder, and he heard that Mille. Sophie
was ill ; the shock of the news brought on a
nervous attack.'

No wonder,' said M. de Beaucrillon ; ' my



sister fainted when she heard of it. We left
her insensible when we came away.'

They wished Father Christopher goodnight,
and went back to the castle.

CHAPTER V.

WHO FIRED THE SHOT ?

ARGUE RITE was very ill during
the night. In the morning she
sent to say she would not comedown
to breakfast. Sibyl went at once to
her room,

My poor darling,' she said, laying her
cool cheek against Marguerite's hot face, ' to
think of our bringing you all this way to
frighten you into illness with wolves and
murders !'

Marguerite answered with a faint smile,
and Sibyl, seeing that the girl was very
nervous, and best left quiet and alone, kissed
her and came away, and sent for the doctor.

Narva had gone out early to see her
mother, who was sure to have heard of the
murder, and likely, in her weak state of
health, to be seriously affected by the shock.

Madame Larik was, in truth, greatly excited.
So God's vengeance has overtaken the man
who murdered my husband and my boy !'
she exclaimed, her face quivering. ' Ah ! the
Lord God swore to avenge the widow and the
orphan ; the Lord God has kept His word !'

The vengeance can't help us, or give
back the dead,' replied Narva. ' Don't rejoice
in it, mother ; it can't help us.'

But Madame Larik was not magnanimous
enough to take this negative view of the
event. She was a kindly soul ; she would
not have crushed a worm ; but she was a
deeply wronged woman, made a widow and
sonless by Larchoff and his father, and it was
not in human nature that she should not feel
a thrill of satisfaction at this deed of vengeance
wrought upon the enemy who had
crushed the joy out of her life.

Narva let her talk en awhile, but seeing

that she was exciting herself overmuch, she
said, irrelevantly : ' Marguerite wanted to
come and see you yesterday ; do you think
you would be able to see her to-day ?'

No, no ; not to-day. My pains are sure
to be very bad to-day. You know they are
always worse when my mind is worried.'

I thought it might help you to forget the
pains and the worry a minute. She is very
merry and pleasant, and very nice to me.'

'In a few days, when I have got over ita
bit, but not to-day, not to-day. I can't
think how you could ask me such an unreasonable
thing, Narva, as to see a stranger
to-day.'

Then I shall make her wait, little mother ;
there is no hurry,' said Narva soothingly ;
and she arranged the pillows, and fussed
about the nervous, irritable invalid, and
talked of household matters, and did what
she could to cheer her and turn her mind
to practical interests. Narva was not the
same being with her mother and with the
rest of the world ; every tone, every touch,

was full of deprecating tenderness ; he r
strength became as the weakness of a lit e
child when she was nursing and caressing
and humouring the peevish, loving, broken-spirited
widow who had only her left to care
for. When M. de Beaucrillon said to Sibyl,
Your Narva is too grand and cold for me ;
she is not human enough ; she is like a
goddess made out of marble and gold Sibyl
replied, ' If you saw her with her mother you
would not say that.'

They were at breakfast when Narva got
back to the castle. She had scarcely sat
down when a servant came in to say that
Pakol Pasgoiroiwitch, the Stanovoi's clerk,
was outside, wanting to speak to Prince
Basil.

Let the dog wait,' was Basil's contemptuous
reply. ' Does he think I am going
to get up from my breakfast to attend to
him ?'

The servant looked as if he had something
he wished to say — something that would
explain ; but after a second's hesitation he

VOL. I. 6

decided not to say it, and withdrew. He
had hardly closed the door when Basil rose
impulsively and went out after him. Pakol
Pasgoiroiwitch was standing in the hall ; the
door was ajar, and the voices were audible in
the breakfast-room. Some words reached
Sibyl and Narva which made them change
colour and start. Before they had time to exchange
a word, Basil flung the door open and
came back, followed by Pakol Pasgoiroiwitch.

Basil looked at the man as if ordering him
to speak.

The murderer has been discovered,' said
Pakol Pasgoiroiwitch, with a stolid, neutral
face like a mask.

An exclamation of impatient curiosity
came from the two ladies.

Father Christopher is the man who committed
it !'

Sibyl almost screamed, and after staring
blankly at the messenger, dropped into her
seat. Narva stood as if turned to stone.

'What is it?' inquired M. de Beaucrillon,
curious and alarmed.

Basil explained. The man went on to
deliver his message, looking all the while
as unmoved as a wooden figure might
have done : information had reached the
authorities that morning ; the Father's gun
was found loaded in the sacristy, with one
chamber empty ; the Father had been seen
hurrying from the forest at the time of the
murder — all this evidence was substantiated.

Good heavens !' exclaimed M. de Beau-crimson,
when it had been translated to him ;
but you could not hang a dog on such
evidence ?'

Not in France,' retorted Basil ; ' but weare
in Russia, and the Stanovoi thinks
Father Christopher is guilty.'

He thinks ? It's his business to think
everybody guilty till he finds out who is.
Why doesn't he suspect you and me '^ He
would find both our rifles with a couple of
chambers empty. Bon Dieu ! The thing is
beyond belief; it is monstrous!'

'Father Christopher f Sibyl repeated slowly,
in a tone of stupefied amazement.

6-2

Have they arrested him ?' asked Narva,
who still stood rooted to the spot where
she heard the news.

Yes ; about an hour ago.'

You can go,' said Basil, with haughty
abruptness.

The man bowed to his knees, and withdrew.


Everybody seemed struck dumb for a
moment after the door had closed. Then
Basil exploded in a muttered curse, and
walked to the window.

What motive can anyone have had in
getting up such a preposterous story ?' asked
M. de Beaucrillon.

Oh ! the motive is not far to seek,' said
Sibyl ; ' the Father is hated by the Stanovoi,
as he was by Larchoff; both have been
pursuing him unrelentingly ever since my
mother's death, trying to entrap him into
something that would give them a hold upon
him ; they have plotted late and early to
convict him of proselytizing, of being connected
with the revolutionists. It was only

the fear of my father's influence at St.
Petersburg that held them at all in check,
or they would have sent him to Siberia or
the gallows long since. The Stanovoi has
seized on Larchoff's murder now to serve his
hate of the Father, and they will buy witnesses
to swear to his guilt.'

^ We will outbid them ; we will do it if it
costs every rouble in our possession and
every acre of our land !' cried Basil, coming
up to her, both his hands clenched, his
countenance set.

If papa were at home !' exclaimed Sibyl
excitedly.

Thank heaven he is not !' retorted Basil ;
he will serve us infinitely better at St.
Petersburg. I must go to him immediately.
We will do what is to be done there, and
then my father will come home and deal with
the business here.'

Dear Basil ! that is the best plan. But
meantime they will have carried Father
Christopher to prison at X. Do you think
the Stanovoi will let you see him at the

guard-house before he goes ? It would be
everything if you could see him and tell him
to be of good cheer.'

Father Christopher is sure to be that, whatever
befalls. I don't think they would let me
see him.'

Oh, try, Basil, try !' said Narva, In a tone
of entreaty that was full of anguish. ' Or if I
went ? Perhaps they would make less difficulty
about letting me in ?'

Basil seemed pulled In different directions.
After a moment's hesitation he said :

I will go myself,' and went out of the
room.

Would my going help }' asked M. de
Beaucrillon.

No ; It would hinder, more likely,' said
Sibyl. ' Oh, Narva !' she cried, moving
rapidly to and fro and wringing her hands,
If they should find witnesses to swear away
his life !'

They will find them,' Narva replied, In a
level undertone.

Sibyl knew what a strength of passionate

feeling there was beneath the tense, calm
manner ; but M. de Beaucrillon did not, and
the girl's apparent insensibility revolted him.

The Stanovoi politely but positively refused
to let Basil see the Father. He was
profuse in his expressions of regret at not
being able to obey his Excellency's desire ;
but he had himself received the strictest
orders not to let anyone near the prisoner,
who was to be conveyed next day to X.

And who has invented this precious lie
against him ?'

Prince, I am here again under orders of
secrecy, and dare not reveal the names of the
witnesses.'

There are several, then ? I should not
have thought there was one man in the entire
district who would have lied against Father
Christopher.'

There is not a man in the district, Excellency,
who does not know that Father Christopher
hated Count Larchoff.'

There is not a man, woman, or child in
the district who did not hate Larchoff! If

that be a proof, you can convict every moujik
on the land of the murder.'

We can't convict them of a more heinous
crime still, that of poisoning the souls of the
Czar's subjects by drawing them away from
the orthodox faith, as Father Christopher has
been of late years repeatedly charged with
doing.'

By whom was he charged with it ? By
Larchoff, who never could prove it in a single
instance !'

It will be proved now.'

What ! Is Larchoff coming back from
hell to do it ? Mind what you are about ! I
warn you, the devil may overshoot his mark.'

With this threat, emphasized by his uplifted
stick, Basil turned his back on the
Stanovoi, and walked out.

Ivan Gorff had seen him in the distance,
and was waiting for him outside the mayor's
house. They clasped hands.

This is a pretty business,' said Ivan.

Whose doing can it be ?' asked Basil, as if
questioning himself.

^ You don't believe it can have been
accidental ?'

I mean this arrest of Father Christopher.'

The Stanovoi's, of course. Who else had
any interest in getting him out of the way ?
But the Prince will be too strong for him.
There is no likelihood of their prevailing
against the Prince ?'

There's always a likelihood of lies prevailing.'


They went on some way without further
speech. Ivan saw that Basil was thoroughly
alarmed, and, though he thought he overestimated
the danger to Father Christopher,
he knew his friend too well to say so, at this
crisis at least. Basil was by nature and habit
masterful and impatient of opposition ; to
contradict him would only serve to exasperate
his imperious temper, and provoke one of
those outbursts of violence which betrayed
the weak point in his character — the lack of
that strength which controls self, and is the
surest test of power to control others.

So Ivan walked on, his loose, shuffling

step keeping pace irregularly with the
vigorous stride of his companion. When
they reached the park gate, he stood.

I won't go in with you,' he said ; ' I have
to go on to X. this afternoon. Sophie is
very ill.'

Oh ! I'm very sorry to hear that,' said
Basil cordially. * I hope it's only the effect
of the shock to her nerves ?'

The doctor says so ; but he says she is
on the brink of a nervous fever. I must
take her for a change as soon as possible. I
think I shall carry her off to Odessa in a day
or two ; we have an old aunt there who will
take care of her. She wants to be taken
care of.'

She does,' replied Basil. * They all do,
those young girls ; they ought all to have
mothers to look after them. Well, present
my best respects to Mademoiselle Sophie incase
she may have left before I return. By the
way, I did not tell you ; I am going to start
off to St. Petersburg. Nobody must know ;
I will say I am going to the dentist at X.,

and that I may be obliged to stay the night
there. This will give me forty-eight hours'
start of the blood-hounds, and a good deal
depends on our being first in the field at St.
Petersburg. It is a mercy my father has
kept his footing at Court. We have grumbled
because he squandered so much money there,
but now we may be thankful for it.'

Yes, it is an ill wind that blows nobody
good,' replied Ivan.

IT IS NO MURDER IN THE SIGHT OF GOD.'

HE doctor found Marguerite alarmingly
feverish ; she seemed on the
brink of a serious illness ; for some
days he could not say how it would turn.
Narva longed to take possession of her, to
be quite alone with her. If delirium came
on, there was the danger of revelations
which both she and Marguerite dreaded.
The consciousness of a secret between them
• — a terrible fear, which, for being unexpressed,
was none the less distinctly understood
by both — had suddenly drawn the two
girls together in a bond of no common
sympathy, and Marguerite would have been

happier to feel herself in Narva's safe keeping;
but Sibyl had at once entered on the
duties of nurse as hers by right, and remained
constantly by her bedside.

Narva had not been alone with Basil fora
moment since the announcement of the
murder, and she had not even seen him since
the news of Father Christopher's arrest. Of
late, her relationship with Basil had been
undergoing a change. Imperceptibly the
old free unconsciousness had been slipping
from her, and she had felt creeping over
her that kind of embarrassing sensitiveness
which manifests itself in shyness ; she felt,
or she fancied, that her manner was not the
same — free, direct, and simple ; and the
dread that Basil should notice the change
made her shrink from being alone with him.
But Basil noticed nothing. He was as unrestrained
as ever in his brotherly familiarity.
It had long been his habit to make a confidante
— to a certain point — of Narva. He
talked to her more unreservedly than to
anyone else. He could denounce things to

her, he could swear at the Czar, he could
complain of his father's extravagance and
absenteeism more freely than to Sibyl ; he
had been thrown entirely on Narva for this
kind of sympathy since Sibyl's marriage, and
he had been annoyed lately at the difficulty
he found in getting hold of her for confidential
talks ; she seemed to be always taken up with
Sibyl, busy about something; it never occurred
to him that she was fighting shy of him.

This morning Narva had been wanting to
meet him ; she dreaded the interview, and yet
some force was Impelling her to seek it. She
felt that she and Basil where in closer affinity
at this moment than they had ever been
before — drawn into closer confidence than
they had ever been in childhood, when every
little joy and sorrow was common, when
they bent over the same lessons, and conned
the same story, and wandered together
through the forest, bird-nesting ; whatever
spell might come between them, it was to
her that Basil was looking now for sympathy,
and that silent understanding which was as

necessary to his morbid sensitiveness as food
to his body. She had been up and downstairs
a dozen times within an hour, now
fancying that she heard his steps ringing
across the hall, then that she heard the door
of his room close or open ; her heart leaped
every time she thought he was going to
appear, and sank again when the hope, or the
dread, she could hardly say which, died away.
She was crossing the broad landing at the
head of the wide oaken stairs when Basil did
finally appear in the hall below, and, seeing
her, turned from his purpose of entering the
drawing-room, and bounded up the stairs.

It was just you that I wanted to see,' he
said ; * come in here a minute.' He opened
the door of his room, the room he was pleased
to call his study, and Narva went in with him.
He closed the door, and then turned to her.
What is the matter with Marguerite .^' he
asked.

Narva could hardly believe her ears : the
question was like a glass of cold water dashed
into her face.

The doctor says her nerves have received
a shock.'

We did not want him to tell us th at,
Basil retorted impatiently. ' Does he say it
is likely to be serious ?'

He hopes not ; but she must be kept
very quiet. Sibyl is with her.'

Basil turned brusquely away, and walked
to the window.

So this was what was uppermost in his
thoughts, this was his paramount preoccupation
when they were all waiting with bated
breath to know the fate of Father Christopher,
charged with a crime that was punishable by
death !

Basil came back as brusquely as he had
turned away.

Narva, there is no time to be lost. I am
going to start at once for St. Petersburg.
No one must know it except ourselves.
Ivan is the only person I have told.'

'Ah! Ivan is sure to be discreet,'
said Narva, with an imperceptible note of
interrogation in her voice.

Ivan discreet ? Where I am concerned ?
Ivan would be flayed alive to save me from
a toothache. You and Sibyl don't do Ivan
justice ; he is the best fellow living. I wish
you would both try and like him better.'

We do like him,' said Narva ; ' and I
know he is devoted to you ; but when
secrecy is such a matter of life and death one
dreads the very grass hearing. . I did
not mean to doubt his loyalty. What hour
do you leave ? Have you ordered the
britzska ?'

No. I will make Vasili pack up what I
want to take with me, and then order it.'
He put out his hand to the bell.

Don't ring,' said Narva, arresting him ;
I "will put up your things.'

The door of his bedroom adjoined his
study, and stood open ; she passed in, and
proceeded with sisterly indiscretion to open
the drawers and fill the travelling-valise that
was always ready at hand for these sudden
emergencies. Departures for distant journeys
at a moment's notice were such common

VOL. I. y

incidents in Basil's practice that his present
expedition would probably have excited no
surprise either in the castle or the village ;
it was conscience that was making a coward
of him. He made no demur to Narva's offer,
but went to his writing-table and began
putting away and destroying some letters
and papers.

Presently he came into the bedroom, and,
standing over Narva who was on her knees
labouring at the valise, he said :

You were down in the village this morning
; what do they say ? Do they think it
was an accident ?'

No, they don't,' she answered, without
looking up.

Do they suspect who did it ?'

I did not hear ; but if they knew, the
secret would be safe with them.'

What ! even if they believed it to have
been deliberate murder ?'

They don't call it murder, I imagine.
They had come to look on Larchoff as more
dangerous than any wild beast ; his death is

no more a murder to them than the killing of
a wolf, or a man-eating bear.'

After a silence Basil said, ' And you agree
with them ?'

Narva did not answer at once ; she finished
what she was doing, and then stood up.
And if I did agree with them ?' she said,
her blue-black eyes flashing with the passion
that vibrated in her voice — 'if I did agree
with them ? Do you expect me to call down
vengeance on the man who rid the world of
Larchoff ? If you do, you expect more than
God in heaven expects of me !'

Basil positively quailed before the strength
of passion that was making her tremble ;
yet he could not look away, or even drop
his lids : her eyes held him with an irresistible
fascination, and compelled his to meet
them.

You would acquit the man who committed
the murder ?' he asked.

I would ; I do. It is no murder in the
sight of God.'

Would you ' — his voice dropped almost to

7 — 2

a whisper — ' can you fancy a woman marrying
the man who did it ?'

If she had loved him before, why not ?'

'You think he might marry her, then,
without confessing that he had done it ?'

That would be harder to forgive ; but if
he loved her he would trust her love, and not
fear to tell her the truth beforehand.' Her
voice had grown suddenly tremulous and soft
as a caress.

Both were silent. There was a troubled
consciousness in his eyes ; in hers a wistful
questioning. Basil was going to speak, but
he checked himself and turned away. A few
minutes later he was on the road to X.

THE LEGACY.

Area contrived to get possession
of Marguerite next day. She
owed this less perhaps to her own
manoeuvring, than to the fact that M. de Beau-crimson
was bored to such an extent that it took
all Sibyl's time and ability to keep him quiet ;
she was almost sorry that Marguerite was
not ill enough to frighten him a little ; this
would have been a stimulant, and kept him
at least from yawning all day long. But,
unfortunately for Sibyl, he shrewdly suspected,
what the doctor had said, that the best thing
for Marguerite would be to carry her back
at once to France. Poor Sibyl, with her

hands full, had no time to spare in diverting
him, but she contrived to make her many
occupations help a little in that direction.
There were scores of letters to be written ;
invited guests had to be put off, and all the
preparations for the intended festivities to be
countermanded, not temporarily, as she had
thought when the murder had thrown a bombshell
into the gay programme, but definitely.
She begged Gaston to help her whenever
French would do instead of Russian, and
he was too well bred not to oblige a lady,
though she was his wife. But these little
services were as pebbles thrown into the
water : they stirred its surface for a moment,
but the ripples passed away, and left it as
dead a calm as before.

Ma chere amie,' he protested, ' the dulness
of your native land is sublime. In no other
country under heaven do people yawn as they
do in Russia. The ennui is beyond any
name in any language. I feel as if I were
being chloroformed.'

Dear ! oh dear ! what an unreasonable

being a man is !' Sibyl replied, with a sigh of
despair. ' In three weeks you have had a wolf
come down and howl for you, then a murder,
and you complain of being chloroformed !'

These shocks wake one up with a start,
but they don't keep one awake. There is
absolutely nothing to do. If there were even
a neighbour with a pretty wife to make love
to ! That would be wrong ? Well, at any
rate, it would be amusing ; but I can't even
try to make you jealous. Seigneur Dieu !
what a country !'

Sibyl admitted it was a hard case, but she
appealed to his generosity, his kindness, to
all his virtues in turn, and adjured him to be
patient.

I wish Basil had thought of taking Gaston
with him she said to Narva the third morning
after her brother's departure. ' It would
have amused him to see St. Petersburg, and
what a relief it would have been to us !'

I should not care to give M. de Beau-crimson
such an opportunity of comparing
our criminal law with that of his own country,'

said Narva ; ' but now that you are a Frenchwoman
you are not so sensitive in that respect
as when you were a Russian

I wish, Narva, you would call Gaston by
his Christian name,' said Sibyl, with clever
irrelevance ; ' it sounds ridiculous to hear you
saying " Monsieur de Beaucrillon." If you
had a husband I should call him by his name,
and expect him to call me by mine.'

Narva's face beamed with one of her rare
beautiful smiles. She looked at Sibyl with
a glance of adoring admiration.

Yes,' continued Sibyl, with a pretty pout,
you are a disappointment to me, both of
you — a most unsatisfactory pair of brother
and sister.'

The grace of the reproach was one of those
delicate touches with which Sibyl was continually
thrilling Narva's tenderness to the
heart. Yet these touches in some indescribable
way brought home to her, as no external
conditions of rank could do, the wide gulf
which the accident of birth and race had
sunk between them, and which Sibyl, with

instinctive delicacy, bridged over, always
seeming unconscious of any social difference
between herself and her low-born sister.

During these days of dreary ennui to
Gaston and breathless anxiety to the other
members of the family, Narva was on the
watch to avoid being alone with Sibyl. Her
own constant attendance on Marguerite and
Sibyl's multitude of occupations made this
comparatively easy, but occasionally they
were thrown together e7i tete-astute for a little
while, and then, let Narva do what she would,
the conversation fell on the murder. Sibyl
would not admit for a moment that the crime
could be fastened on Father Christopher.

I wonder what Ivan Gorff thinks about
it ?' she said one morning when M. de Beau-crimson
had left the breakfast table ; ' he ought
to be back now. I wonder how Sophie is.
I am sorry he carried her off in such a hurry,
without letting us know she was so ill. I
should have liked to see her ; but I fancy
they have been both a little shy with us all
here since that kind of overture of my father's

about Sophie which Basil did not follow up.
It was a mistake his speaking so soon. Not
that I think there was really much likelihood
of Basil ever making up his mind to ask
Sophie. What a mercy my father is on the
spot to work against the people here ! We
shall never complain again of his being such
an absentee. It is all-important now his
being in favour at Court.'

^ Yes ; if that obtains justice for Father
Christopher, we need never complain,' assented
Narva ; ' but, Sibyl, what a heinous
thing it is that the life of an innocent man
should hang on such a chance !'

It is never a chance when we can reach
the Emperor Sibyl replied ; ' that is the
happiness of being under one whose authority
is supreme ; there is no twisting of the law,
no plotting or bribing, that can overrule his
will.'

But if one can't reach him in time, what
redress is there against the plotting and the
bribing !'

Sibyl remembered how bitterly Narva had

learned this evil side of the Emperors
paternal Government, and regretted her inconsiderate
remark.

M. de Beaucrillon's entrance was opportune
to them both. Narva left him to Sibyl, and
went up to Marguerite. The feverish
symptoms had entirely disappeared, but
bright little Marguerite was as weak as a
child, and looked more wan and worn than
so short an illness seemed to justify. The
few days' suffering had beautified her, as
such accidents are apt to do in early youth ;
her complexion was as clear as wax, and her
brown eyes had borrowed a soft lustre that
was more fascinating in its way than their
usual saucy brightness. Poor child ! no
wonder the brightness was veiled ! those
innocent eyes had been gazing through wide-open
summer windows at the joyous pageant
of life, and lo ! there suddenly passed before
her a spectacle of horror, a vision of sin and
murder.

Narva continued to devote herself to her,
though there was now no necessity for

constant attendance. No confidences had
passed between them, but she felt that Marguerite
was clinging to her as the sinking
man clings to the swimmer.

Sibyl was saying she thought you might
venture on a little drive to-day, dear,'
remarked Narva.

Oh, no ; I don't feel up to it,' Marguerite
replied ; ' my head swims when I walk across
the room ; tomorrow perhaps I shall feel
inclined, but not to-day.'

Narva stood looking down at the small
figure reclining on the couch ; it looked half
as small again, swallowed up under an
enormous fur rug.

I will let you have your way about it
this once more she said ; ' but it is the last
time. To-morrow, if you won't come of
your own sweet will, I will get M. de Beau-crimson
to carry you. You will never get a
bit of strength, or a patch of colour into your
cheeks, until you get some fresh air.'

The colour will come back soon enough,
don't be afraid,' Marguerite said, with a little

pretence at cheerfulness. ' Are you going
to drive ?'

No ; I am going to walk ; I am going
down to my mother for an hour.'

That dear Tante Nathalie ; when shall
I see her ?' said Marguerite, taking Narva's
hand that hung down by her side. ' How
good It Is of her to spare you to us so long !
You have been nursing me when you ought
to have been with her. How she must miss
you !'

Dear mother !' — Narva's eyes grew tender
in an instant — * but she is glad to let me be
with Sibyl'

You do love Sibyl ?'

'Yes, I do love Sibyl!' Narva answered,
with hearty emphasis.

Marguerite felt at that moment that she
loved Narva. Something in the expression
of her uplifted face, perhaps, expressed this
avowal, for Narva bent down and kissed
her on the forehead, and then left the
room.

At the park gate she met Ivan Gorff.

I thought you were gone to Odessa !'
she exclaimed in surprise.

I have come back on purpose to see you.
I have something of importance to tell you.'

Ah ! about the Father ?'

No ; about Basil. He must escape across
the frontier as quickly as possible.'

Narva stood, partly from sheer inability to
go on walking, and partly that she might
look at Ivan, and read in his face what she
had not the courage to ask.

Ivan stood also, but he only repeated :

He must escape at once. I have sent a
messenger on the chance of meeting him at
St. Petersburg, but I expect he is on his way
home by this, and the messenger will miss
him. Perhaps it is as well ; there will be
less hurry in arresting him here. They will
have to be cautious, and catch him quietly.'

What has happened ?' Narva said, when
she had recovered her self-command sufficiently
to speak and walk on.

Something has been found amongst
Larchoff's papers that compromises him ; he

is denounced as implicated in a plot to assassinate
the Emperor.'

Narva uttered something inarticulate.

'■ I must not ask how you came by this
knowledge ?' she said.

You may ask, but I may not tell,' he
replied curtly.

The warrant is not yet here for his
arrest ?'

No ; but it will probably be here tonight.
When do you expect Basil i^'

At any moment. He has not announced
the day, but I have an idea he will be back
tomorrow.'

They went on a little without speaking.
Then Narva said :

And Father Christopher ? Have you
heard anything '^ Is there any chance of
Basil bringing back the order for his release
?'

Ivan was shuffling on with his hands
thrust deep into the pockets of his furred
overcoat. At this question of Narva's he
lifted his head, held it skyward a moment,

and then dropped it heavily on his breast ;
the gesture expressed absolute hopelessness.

Yet the Prince has great influence ?
Sibyl seems certain he will prevail.'

But Ivan remained stolidly unresponsive,
while a look as of impatient contempt crossed
his face.

Oh, surely something may be done !'
Narva cried. ' Is there nothing to be attempted
here ? Would not the people come
with us in a body to X., and petition the
Isprawnic ? Sibyl would come at our head.
Or perhaps M. de Beaucrillon, as a foreigner,
might have a chance of being heard if he
interfered. To think that we should stand
by and not lift a finger to rescue our dear old
Father is too horrible !'

Ivan walked on, his eyes still staring
before him. At last he said :

There is only one thing that could be of
the least use : if we could find the man who
committed the murder, and give him up to
justice.*

Narva felt as if some one had clutched herby

the throat. The ground seemed to be
moving under her feet. She kept walking
on as if urged by some mechanical force
For her life she could not have stopped ; if
she had stopped, she must have screamed.
Neither of them spoke another word until
they came to a point where the roads crossed.
Then Narva said :

I am going this way.'

Ivan took the remark for a dismissal, and
without further ceremony parted from her,
going on to the village, while she took the
road to X.

VOL. I.

THE LEGACY.

ARK A was no longer In a mood to
go to her mother after this. It
would have been Impossible to
keep the absolute secrecy that was necessary ;
she could command the silence of her tongue
that was always easy to her ; but she could
not Insure the silence of her face, nor prevent
the keen eyes of the mother from reading on
its troubled features the fact that something
was agitating her. Many a time within the
last few days Narva had felt thankful that
she was staying at the castle, and that Marguerite's
Illness gave her a plausible excuse
for not going home to be with Madame Larik

during her little attack of rheumatism. It
would have been almost beyond her powers
of self-control to sit all day with a calm countenance,
cheering up her mother, reassuring
her perpetual apprehensions, answering her
endless conjectures, contradicting her prophecies,
and belying in words the terrors
that filled her own heart. It would often
have been a relief — at this moment an unspeakable
relief — if she could have spoken
out to anybody, to an idiot, to a dumb dog,
to any living thing ; it would have been a
relief if she could have shrieked out to the
trees ; but she might not indulge even in
this solace ; there were peasants about in the
fields ; they would hear her, and think she
had gone suddenly mad.

She walked on at a quick pace, and had
gone some way on the road, when there broke
on the stillness the sound of bells tinkling in
the distance. She stood still and listened till
she heard them nearing distinctly. Could it
be Basil returning ? Narva held her breath
in expectation ; but the suspense did not last

8—2

long. There came quickly In sight a
britzska, in which she recognised the Prince's
notary, M. Perrow. He pulled up the
moment he saw her, and jumping out, advanced
with a low bow. The bow was so
low that It set Narva wondering.

This Is a lucky chance for me, mademoiselle,'
said the notary, again bowing ; * I came
to seek the honour of an Interview with
you. May I join you now, or shall 1 accompany
you to Madame Lark's house ?'

My mother is not very well ; I prefer to
talk with you here replied Narva, her surprise
increasing to amazement.

It Is not often one has the good fortune to
be the bearer of good news,' began M. Perrow
facetiously, 'and I congratulate myself on
being so privileged.'

Good news ! Oh, thank God !' cried
N area ; ' he Is out ? he is free ?'

Excuse me : my news has nothing to do
with that sad business. I come to announce
the death of your mother's respected relative.
Dr. Schwartzel, and to inform you that he

has bequeathed to you, to you personally and
solely, a legacy of fifty thousand roubles.
The money has been paid into our hands.'

Narva said, ' Oh !' and walked on.

We are so full of this dreadful business,'
she observed presently, * that it seems as if
nothing important could happen except in
connection with it.'

That is natural. Still life goes on, and it
is a good thing to inherit. The money was
paid in only this morning by the banker of
the late Dr. Schwartzel : you see, I have lost
no time in letting you know.'

I thank you.'

It is desirable that the money should be
invested without delay. The sooner it is
placed, the sooner it will bring in interest. I
wait your orders on this head.' And he
forthwith launched into a statement of the
various kinds of stock, home and foreign, that
he ventured to recommend as safe and profitable.


Narva let him run on, but she hardly heard
what he was saying ; she was not in a frame

oi mind to enter on the subject of railways
that paid high with risk, and Government
bonds that paid low without risk. She requested
M. Perrow to let the money remain
in his safe for a few days, until she should
have considered the matter and taken advice,
when she would communicate with him. The
notary was a trifle disappointed, but he felt
that Mademoiselle Narva Larik was a person
who knew how to assume at once the new
position in which her suddenly acquired
fortune placed her, and this inspired him with
additional respect for her. He took his dismissal
with politeness, got into his britzska,
and drove away.

Narva watched the britzska out of sight,
and it almost seemed as if its coming and
going had been a dream. A week ago this
legacy would have been the realization of the
cherished scheme of her life ; it would have
represented the fulfilment of all that her
poor mother had longed for : independence
for her child, and comfort and ease for them
both. They had wanted for nothing, thanks

to Prince Zorokoff's generosity and Sibyl's
loving kindness ; but both mother and
daughter had a spirit that chafed under the
burden of such obligations, and to be free
from these, to be independent of pecuniary
help, was their greatest desire. Then, Narva
longed to take her mother to those healing
springs in her native Germany, and after that
to travel and see some of the beautiful places
that Basil told her about, and that her own
imagination had pictured to her out of books,
The tragedy of her father's and her brother's
death had fallen like a blight upon her youth,
and crushed the natural desire of her age for
amusement. She had never shared the
common delight of girlhood in innocent
gaiety and dress and dancing ; those springs
were broken ; but perhaps on that very
account her desire for other enjoyments had
developed more strongly. She longed to
escape from the scenes of her life's great
sorrow, as if this flight of the body must in
some degree carry her spirit away from its
pain, while the intellectual hunger of a healthy

mind incited her curiosity to visit new places
and see new phases of life. The long winter
evenings had many and many a time been
shortened to herself and her mother by
dreams and plans that were to be carried out
when old cousin Schwartzel died and left
them the independence he had promised on
hearing of Larik's exile and their consequent
destitution. And now the promise had been
fulfilled, the fairy had come to their door with
the purse and the seven-leagued boots, and
Narva could not even feel glad. If the
money could serve to rescue Father Christopher
and get Basil safe out of Russia, how
joyfully would she have paid it away, and
renounced her day-dreams for ever !

She had walked a long way ; so long that
even her elastic young limbs recalled her to
the fact that they had to carry her back. She
made up her mind not to announce the news
to Madame Larik to-day. She was not sufficiently
mistress of herself to play the rejoicing
part that would be expected of her ; moreover,
in her mother's weak condition of health,

another sudden shock, even a pleasant one,
might be hurtful ; and there was no hurry ;
the good news would be as good tomorrow.
She was debating whether she would go in to
her mother now, or come down later in the
afternoon, when the sight of Sibyl's pony-carriage
at the cottage gate settled the question,
and she went in.

In Narva's eyes there was no lovelier thing
in nature than the picture of Sibyl with Tante
Nathalie, as Madame Larik was called in the
family. When she entered the room now the
young Princess was administering to the widow
some little dainty that she had brought from
the castle, and was playfully persuading her
to eat. Madame Larik yielded under protest,
querulously declaring between every spoonful
that she had no appetite, and that there was
no reason why she should force herself to eat,
or to live at all. Sibyl petted her as if she
had been a child ; her manner was as full of
gentle deference toward the peevish, forlorn
widow as if she had been a Czarina. Madame
Larik had been pretty in her youth, with that

soft round German comeliness that wears
better than more regular beauty ; she was a
fair, fat, round little woman, with nothing
to remind you of Narva's grand lines or delicate
splendour of colouring ; but there was no
lack of intelligence in her features, and the
majesty of a great sorrow had set its seal upon
her.

Tante Nathalie is a great deal better today,'
said Sibyl, when Narva came in. ' She
won't own it ; but that is sheer perversity, I
tell her. Now, ma tante, you must let me
put you lying down,' she continued, seeing
that Madame Larik had eaten the last spoonful
of her lite dainty meal.

I am well enough sitting so, my dear,' said
the widow.

But Sibyl insisted. She had a notion that
to ' put people lying down ' 77iust be good for
them.

Madame Larik gave in, as she always did
with Princess Sibyl.

'We must get her out for a drive tomorrow,'
said Sibyl, fussing fondly about

her, and putting a quilted silk eider-down —
her own gift — over Tante Nathalie's feet.

No, no,* protested Madame Larik, shaking
her head ; ' no driving about for me while
Father Christopher is in prison. Wait till he
is out

Your moping and worrying won't help
him to get out,' argued Sibyl.

That is what I tell her,' said Narva,
standing at the end of the sofa.

'Why does not Basil write? It is a bad
sign that he does not write,' said Madame
Larik ; ' it must mean bad news.'

It means more likely no news,' said Sibyl ;
but in any case he would not have trusted
the news to the post ; he said so.'

If he had good news he would have
managed to send it somehow,' persisted
Madame Larik, in her little soft, obstinate
way, shaking her head ; ' good news is sure
to come.'

I thought it was bad news that always
travelled fast,' Sibyl said, laughing at her.
Why will you croak so, Tante Nathalie ?'

She took a vase off the table, and began to
arrange some hot-house flowers in it, talking
in her pleasant, sympathetic way all the time.

Then she said she must be going, and
Narva had better come with her.

Narva made no difficulty. She was thankful
to escape the strain of a tete-astute with
her mother.

basil's declaration.

T was about four o'clock in the
afternoon of the sixth day after
Basil's departure ; the lamps had
just been lighted ; M. de Beaucrillon, Sibyl,
and Narva were in the drawing-room. Suddenly
a loud barking of the dogs announced
some arrival, and before there was time to
conjecture who it might be, the door opened,
and Basil walked in. Sibyl ran to embrace
him, and the others greeted him with glad
eagerness. After the excitement of the
meeting was over, Sibyl said :

And Father Christopher ? Have you
succeeded ?*

Yes ; the warrant for his release was
signed the day I left.'

An exclamation of deep thankfulness came
from all.

Did you see him on your way through
X. ?' asked Sibyl.

I did. But don't let us begin to talk
about that yet,' he said, letting himself fall
into a chair ; ' I'm too dead-beat.'

The light fell full on his face, and they
were all struck by its haggard expression.
The air of utter exhaustion he wore was
scarcely to be accounted for, at his age, by a
hurried journey to and from St. Petersburg.

Sibyl bent over him, and kissed his forehead.


You must want some food, dear Basil,'
she said. ' What shall I order ? Tea ?'

'Nonsense — tea!' said M. de Beaucrillon.
Give him some strong bouillon and a bottle
of good old Bordeaux.'

That would suit my condition better,' said
Basil, ' though a cup of tea would not be
amiss either, if it were ready.'

It will be ready in a moment said Sibyl.
Ring the bell, Gaston.'

Then, as if too impatient to wait for the
summons to be answered, she went quickly
out of the room herself.

Beyond a mutual greeting when they
clasped hands, Basil and Narva had not exchanged
a word, and yet each was conscious
of being intently observant of the other.

How is Marguerite ?' Basil inquired
suddenly.

Oh, she is nearly all right,' replied M. de
Beaucrillon.

I will go and tell the good news,' said
Narva. * She will be overjoyed.'

Why should I not go and take it to her ?
I want to see how she is,' said Basil.

He stood up ; but it seemed an effort to
him ; he looked like a man utterly spent
with fatigue.

Mon cher,' said his brother-in-law, * take
my advice and go up to your own room. A
bath will refresh you more than anything,
to begin with.'

M. de Beaucrillon is right,' said Narva ;
you will have a better appetite, too, when
you are rested a bit

She said this to give Basil the chance of
getting away and being alone with her for a
moment. She had a terrible piece of news
to communicate to him, and the sight of his
weariness, which seemed as much mental as
physical, pained her to the heart, and made
what she had to say harder even than she
had expected.

Basil consented to take his brother-in-law's
advice, and followed Narva leisurely
out of the drawing-room. She was on
the landing at the head of the stairs, when
he made a sign that he wanted to speak to
her.

They entered his study together. Basil
went straight to his desk, unlocked it, and
took out a bundle of letters.

I want you to keep these for me,' he
said ; ' but I won't give them to you unless
you are certain that you can secrete them
beyond any chance of discovery.'

You may give them to me,' Narva
replied.

And he gave them to her.

Nothing more was said : they knew that
one was offering, and the other accepting, a
trust which involved terrible possibilities to
both.

And now I have something else to tell
you,' Basil said. ' They have trapped me ; a
warrant is out for my arrest.'

Ah ! you know !' Narva exclaimed, almost
relieved at not having to break the news
to him. * Ivan told me ; but they have not
caught you yet. There is time to escape.'

Escape is out of the question. The
house is watched, and I have been followed
all the way from X. I met the Stanovoi
there, and he announced the good news
to me.'

He told you about it ? Then he offered
you some alternative, some chance of escape ?'

He did ; but I can't take advantage of it ;
I haven't got the money. Every available
rouble has been raised for Father Chris-vol.

I. Q

tother's ransom. I called at Ivan's on my
way here ; but he is absent. That was my
one chance, and I have missed it.'

What is the sum ?' Narva said, a sudden
hope making her heart leap.

Fifty thousand roubles ! And to be paid
by nine o'clock to-night.'

Basil, I have got the money. Listen !'
Her face was flushed; her great eyes shone;
her voice trembled with the palpitating joy
that filled her as she hurriedly told him about
the legacy. And now she had only to go
into X. and fetch it. ' Oh, what a blessed
mercy that it came just in time ! I will ride
in at once ; it is now half-past four ; a good
horse will take me there and back in two
hours and a half. There will be no delay ; I
will be here again by seven o'clock, in time
for dinner. No one need know I have been
absent. It will be quite easy ; there is plenty
of time.'

She was turning away in a tremor of
excitement when Basil arrested her.

Narva,' he said, laying his hand on her

arm, ' you are a noble-hearted friend ; but do
you think I am such a pitiful dog as to take
this money from you ?'

What do you mean ?' she said, looking at
him in bewilderment. * Is it because it is
mine that you would refuse it ? Oh, Basil !'

There was a cry of pain in her voice as
from a wounded creature ; there was a confession,
too, in it that betrayed the secret of
her heart.

I would take anything from you,' he said,
conscious of a slight shock and of a sudden
burst of tenderness towards her ; ' but you
can't give it to me without sacrificing yourself
and your mother. Heaven knows when I
could repay it. No, I can't be such a brute
as to rob Tante Nathalie !'

And you think it will be less brutal to kill
me ? Yes, it will kill me if they arrest you,
for I know, and so do you, what will happen,
once you are in their hands. My mother
knows nothing about this money ; she need
never know until you can give it back to us.
Oh, Basil ! Basil ! don't refuse me ; it will

9 — 2

kill me if you do !' Her voice broke, her
eyes were raised to his, brimful of tears, and
saying as plainly as ever eyes of woman spoke,
I love you !'

Basil was moved to the core of his heart.
He forgot that he was Prince Zorokoff, and
that Narva was a low-born Jewess ; he forgot
everything except that this beautiful girl
loved him, and was offering her all to save
him.

He opened wide his arms. ' Narva!'

With a sob, she sank into his embrace.
For one long moment he held her clasped.
Then lifting her head from his shoulder,

Yes, I will take this money from you,' he
said ; ' but only on one condition : will you
give me yourself with it '^ Have you the
courage to be my wife ?'

I would give my life for you,' she answered.


He kissed her on the lips.

Basil she said, ' I have loved you all my
life.'

Dearest, and so have I loved you.'

And he spoke the truth ; but with a difference.


I must be going,' she said, struggling
away from him, but he tightened one arm
round her.

^ Wait a moment. We must pledge our
betrothal first.'

Drawing her towards a table, he unlocked
a drawer and took out a diamond ring, a hoop
of beautiful stones.

This was my mother's betrothal ring,' he
said, slipping it on her finger. * Wear it till
you come back from X.; then let it hang as
an amulet round your neck until I can place
it on your finger before all the world.'

May Sibyl not know ?' she asked, with
timid hesitation.

No ; let it remain a secret between ourselves
until we meet. It will be another
link binding us together.'

He was alluding to the ransom she was
giving him ; but Narva grew pale.

Yes,' she said, almost under her breath,
it will be another bond between us.'

He kissed her again, and she hurried away,
carrying with her the packet of letters he had
intrusted to her.

Basil went to Marguerite's door and
knocked: but getting no answer, he went
down to the dining-room. Sibyl was there
waiting for him, and sat with him while he
partook of the meal that had been hastily
ordered up. Basil was only four-and-twenty,
and he was In rude health, and no amount of
mental trouble could destroy his appetite, or
take away the natural cravings of hunger.

Sibyl saw that he was too tired to care to
talk much, so she busied herself helping him
to good things, and kept up a lively flow of
monologue, telling him all that had happened
since his departure, the excitement in the
village. Marguerite's illness, everything that
could interest him and save him the trouble
of answering, further than by an occasional
remark or question.

But while Basil was listening to Sibyl, his
thoughts were elsewhere. He was in a
strange state of mind and feeling. It seemed

to him as if he had suddenly become another
person, as if a new Basil had been added to
the old one. He hardly realized yet what he
had done, or what was to come of it. He
had made a tremendous leap in the dark,
and he was wondering where it had landed
him. He had taken a step which must
change the whole aspect and current of his
life. He had done it without a moment's
premeditation, on the spur of an impulse of
passion, was it } or generous gratitude ?
He was not calm enough to analyze his own
heart at this crisis, or balance nicely the
conflicting forces which had moved him to
ask Narva to be his wife. And what would
Sibyl say } She loved Narva dearly, as
dearly as if they had been sisters in flesh and
blood ; but this personal fondness was quite
compatible with invincible repugnance to
Narva as a sister-in-law ; Sibyl's soft grace
of manner was so entirely free from morgue
as to lead her inferiors to believe she was
altogether unconscious of any superiority
towards them ; but beneath this outward

suavity there existed a spirit of family pride
that was hard as flint and strong to fanaticism.
How would she take the announcement that
a Jewish trader's daughter was going to
queen it over her as Princess Zorokoff, the
head of the family ?

This was not the only problem that was
vexing Basil's soul while he ate his caviare
and salad. The image of Marguerite kept
forcing itself before his eyes with a persistency
that was unwarrantably troublesome.
He had long since recognised in his little
French cousin a creature of a different mould
from any that he had ever met ; the charm
of her brightness, her happy spirit, her childlike
freshness of heart, had been working on
him like a spell. He had been aware of this,
and had not attempted to resist the influence ;
he knew that it was Sibyl's cherished dream
that he should marry Marguerite, and he had
been only held back from pursuing it by the
fear that he had entangled himself in political
engagements from which it would be cowardly
and unfaithful to break loose. Still he had

been in a dreamy, delicious way caressing
possibilities, and it had struck him more than
once that Marguerite would not have repulsed
him. Basil was not gainer than most men,
but he could not help seeing that she changed
colour sometimes under his glance, and that
her saucy, wistful eyes took a softer, a more
timid expression when they met his ; he had
noted these signs with a pleasant sense of
power unchecked by any scruples or remorse,
for he had the consciousness of being quite
willing, and he suspected able, to heal any
wound he might make in her innocent young
heart.

But now he saw things differently. His
conscience smote him ; he felt a pang at
the thought of having perhaps involuntarily
inflicted one on her. He longed to see her ;
he must see her once again. It would be
with very different feelings now from those
with which he would have met her an hour
ago ; but he thought of Narva, of her ripe,
glowing beauty, her tender, self-sacrificing
love, and he would not let himself by so

much as a passing sigh be unfaithful to the
loyalty he had sworn to her.

Marguerite was in the drawing-room when
he returned there with Sibyl. The meeting
was much less awkward than Basil had feared.
It was natural that he should be affectionately
interested in his cousin, who looked still pale
enough to warrant Sibyl's reproach that she
had been tiring herself by writing letters.

You must let me put you lying down,
cherie,' Sibyl said, * and Basil will tell us all
about his journey while you are resting.'

But Basil protested regretfully that he
could not enjoy this relief of sitting quietly
and talking to them. He must go and tell
Ivan Gorff the good news before he could
enjoy anything.

We will send for him to come up and hear
it,' suggested Sibyl.

No, no ; I must take it to him myself,'
Basil replied, with a touch of impatience that
silenced her.

Ivan was a pretext for going to the Stanovoi
to inform him that the money would be forthcoming.

Basil could not tell Sibyl that he
was under warrant of arrest ; he felt unequal
to the effort of having to console her, and,
besides, he was not yet certain of being able
to ransom himself. Narva might have some
delay, the notary might be out, the key of his
strong-box might not be forthcoming at once,
an accident might have happened : who could
tell ? When luck is against a man, he must
reckon with bad chances.

M. de Beaucrillon offered to accompany his
brother-in-law, but Basil said that, as Sophie
was ill, Ivan might not be disposed to receive
a visit. It was rather a lame excuse, but
M. de Beaucrillon understood, as Sibyl did,
that he wished to see Ivan alone, and did not
press his company upon him. It was natural
enough, Gaston said to himself, that, under
the circumstances, Basil should fight shy of a
Frenchman ; the latter rather admired him
for being ashamed that a foreigner should
witness the way his country was governed.
Poor fellow, he looked piteously worn, Gaston
thought, as he noticed his sunken eyes and

haggard, unkempt appearance, like that of a
man who has not slept for nights.

Ivan was not at home, as Basil, who had
met him at X , knew ; but the Stanovoi was.
The functionary asked no questions. So long
as he got his money, he did not care where it
came from. He assumed that the French
brother-in-law had come down with it ; in
fact, he had reckoned on this when he named
so exorbitant a figure. The Zorokoffs were
wealthy, but ready money was scarce at
Yrakow ; it all went to St. Petersburg, where
the Prince made it fly as fast as he got
it ; the castle kept itself ; there was plenty
on the property of all that was wanted, and
what the property did not provide was done
without. The result was that odd mixture of
lavish abundance and uncivilized discomfort,
traces of which were even still visible incertain
details, notwithstanding Sibyl's presence
and the reign of orderly splendour that
she brought with her.

The interview with the Stanovoi was short.
Basil had nothing else to do In the village,

and nowhere else to go, and two hours must
yet elapse before Narva returned, reckoning
all chances favourable. He could not bring
himself to go back to the house, and spend
the interval with Marguerite and the others.
The effort of deceiving them, and keeping
the secret that was holding his very life in
suspense, was more than he felt equal to. In
another hour he would go back and quietly
put up the few things he wanted to take with
him.

The night had closed in, and the moon had
not risen, so it was nearly pitch-dark. Basil
paced along the road, ruminating in bitter
perplexity of spirit. Suddenly Peter, his
dog, gave a low growl, and then an angry
bark, as if warning off an enemy close at
hand. Basil had no doubt but that some agent
of the Stanovoi's was watching him. He
struck a match, and looked at his watch.
Narva had been gone nearly an hour and a
half It was time he went home and got
ready to start, assuming that he was to do so.
He turned back, walking quickly, for the air

was frosty, and his breath made a cloud
before him as he went. Suddenly the moon
rose, a few stars sprang out in attendance,
and the road, black a moment before, was
washed with light. On one side there was a
copse, towards which Peter's ill-will was
directed, judging from the way he growled at
it now and then. Basil, following the dog's
indication, kept looking that way ; the outer
trees threw a tracery of shadow and sheen
on the ground, but farther back it was all a
chaos of stems ; presently his eyes, sharpened
by presentiment, descried the figure of a man
stealing along through the woods. Basil was
quite certain that he had been watched since
he left X., but the sight of this spy, dogging
him in the dark, made him realize the fact
with a shock, and it seemed also to bring more
vividly before him the nearness of the peril
on the brink of which he stood. If Narva
should be late, or fail in her errand ?

How slowly the time dragged on ! He
quickened his step ; his footfall rang sharp
and clear on the hard road. Peter trotted on.

and ceased to growl. Suddenly he stood,
tail and ears up-pricked ; then, with a loud
bark, turned and dashed back down the road.
Basil turned too, and listened. Was that the
sound of galloping hoofs that he heard ?
Could it be Narva ? He stopped smoking,
he almost stopped breathing, as the sound
drew nearer. Peter was barking violently,
joyously. The horse came in sight. It was
Narva ! Basil stepped into the middle of the
road, where the brilliant moonlight shone unobstructed
by a shadow, and waved his hand.
She pulled up, and in a moment he was
beside her.

Here it is,' she said in a cautious tone,
stooping over him. ' I will ride on, and leave
this poor beast at the stables, and wait for
you in the court.'

She unclasped the heavy bag that was
fastened round her waist, and Basil took it,
and walked on rapidly after her.

On entering the outer court he ordered a
groom to get ready a carriage with four stout
horses. He then walked on into the second

court ; he was about to enter the house when
some one stepped forward, and said :

Does your E excellency want to speak to me ?'

Ah ! it is you. Yes, I want to speak to
you,' Basil replied, with a short laugh.
Very considerate of you to turn up just at
the right moment. Come in here, will you ?'

The Stanovoi followed him into the house,
and they entered a room close at hand. Basil
struck a light. They were closeted for a
few minutes — just long enough to count the
money.

Now, Excellency, depart with speed, and
don't let the grass grow under your feet till
you have passed the frontier.'

The Stanovoi bowed low, and, hugging his
bag, went out.

Narva was waiting in the entry when Basil
reappeared. The tawny flame of an oil-lamp
gave enough light to let them see each other.
Basil caught her in his arms and kissed her
again and again ; then, brusquely releasing
her, he turned to ascend the stairs, and flew
up to his room.

Narva, In a tumult of bliss and agitation,
went up to hers. She was shaken to pieces
by her mad ride ; but there was no time to
rest ; there was no time to think. She must
be ready to go to Basil before he went downstairs,
and say good-bye to him alone before
going through the ceremony of doing so in
the drawing-room. She divested herself
quickly of her riding-habit, and proceeded to
attire herself in a dress of white cashmere
that Basil admired ; it was a fantastic
garment of her own contrivance, made with
much artistic effect, but quite regardless of
fashion. She clasped a dead-gold band
round her waist, and fastened a crimson rose
in her hair, and, with a great joy and a great
terror In her heart, went to seek Basil ; but to
her dismay, on reaching the broad landing on
which his room opened she saw M. de Beau-crimson
standing at the door. This was a terrible
contretemps ; there was nothing for it but
to go downstairs, and trust to Basil managing
to find a moment alone with her before he
fled. She found Sibyl in the drawing-room.

VOL. I. J o

Well, you have seen Tante Nathalie ?'
exclaimed Sibyl, who had taken for granted
that Narva had gone out with the good news
to her mother. ' She will come out for a
drive now, I hope ? But oh, Narva, how ill
Basil looks ! Gaston says he has grown five
years older this last week. What a time he
stayed with Ivan ! He has only just come
back, it seems.'

It has been a terrible week for all of
us,' Narva said, ignoring the last remarks.

She was standing near a console, one hand
resting on the porphyry slab ; a large silver
lamp, high-placed on a malachite pillar behind
her, threw its golden light over her soft white
draperies, and made her hair shine like a
nimbus. Perhaps the light of a deep and
tender joy burning in her eyes and trembling
on her full red lips touched her with its outward
and visible glory ; for Sibyl, who had been
gazing in a comfortable ecstasy up at the
gods and goddesses on the ceiling, glanced at
her suddenly, and was struck by something in
her aspect.

Narka/ she exclaimed, ' you look like an
archangel !'

Never having seen an archangel said
M. de Be 'V-sauntering into the room,
I w a> i u t i u . . . ; c L . sparing mademoiselle to a
vestal, or a Greek bride.

Why Greek, mon cher ?* demanded Sibyl.
Narva blushed, and turned her large liquid

glance smilingly on M. de Beaucrillon. It
was not often he took the trouble to be complimentary
and, being a woman and beautiful,
she was pleased. But it was not selfish
coquetry that made her feel that sudden
thrill of exultation in her own beauty ; she
was proud of it for Basil s sake now.

Pertly to escape from the embarrassment of
standing to be admired, and partly from her
natural impulse to give vent to her overwrought
feelings in song she moved to the
piano, and sat down and b^^an to ware
a bridal song in Russian. The words were
uninte]%ible to M. de BeauanBon, but the
pathos of the melody and the penetrative
swiftness of dite voice moved kim strange.

lO — 2

He said to himself, as he gazed and
listened :

What can Zorokoft be made of, that he
has not fallen under the spell of such a
creature ?'

When the bridal song came to an end —
quickly, for Narva was impatient to escape —
he entreated her to sing it again. She could
not refuse, and perhaps the impatience of
her soul made her throw more fire of passion
into the pathetic melody, for when it ceased
M. de Beaucrillon was so overcome that he
had not a word of thanks ready, but let her
rise from the piano in silence.

What can be keeping Marguerite so long,
I wonder ?' Narva remarked ; ' I must go and
see ;' and she Walked slowly out of the room.

'And what can be keeping Basil?' said
Sibyl, growing fidgety ; ' I think I must go
and look after him.'

He was taking a bath when I knocked
just now, Vasili told me,' replied Gaston.

Oh, then he will be here presently, no
doubt ;' and she sat down.

As she did so, a valet came in with a letter,
which he presented to her. It was in Basil's
writing. Sibyl opened it, and drew out a
sealed envelope addressed to Father Christopher,
and then a note that she read rapidly.

Oh, my God ! This is too dreadful !' she
cried out.

M. de Beaucrillon snatched up the note.

Good heavens ! Gone ! Fled !'

With a muttered expletive he threw down
the letter, and proceeded to try and calm
Sibyl, who had burst into hysterical grief.

Meantime Narva had gone and knocked
at Basil's door, and, getting no answer,
opened it. The room was empty. She called
his name, but there was no response. In a
flash of lightning she guessed the truth : he
was gone. But where '^. Could the Stanovoi
have played him false ? She glanced round
the rooms. The lights were burning, but
there was nothing to give the least clue to
why or how he had fled. Faint with terror,
Narva took up a candle and went on to her
own room. Perhaps he was there waiting for

her. The room was empty, but on the table
a little round table, with a green velvet
cover, on which there was a solitary book —
lay a letter. At a glance she saw it was from
Basil.

My Narva,

I have not the courage to meet you
again, since we have to part at once. Adieu !
I will write when it is possible. I owe you
my life. It is yours for all time.

Basil.'

Narva sank into a chair, clutching the note
in her fingers. Gone ! Without one more
embrace ! How could he ! But the relief of
knowing that he had escaped, that he had not
been treacherously entrapped to his ruin, as
she had for a moment feared, was so great
that it helped her to forget the cruel disappointment.
She recovered herself quickly,
and remembered, with that strong sympathy
for the suffering of others which was the
noble side of her nature, that Sibyl and
Marguerite would want to be sustained under

this shock. Ah, Marguerite ! Narva's heart
went out to the child in a rush of purest pity.
She rose and hurried to her room ; but the
news had got there before her. Marguerite
was on her knees by the bed, her face buried
in the eider-down, sobbing bitterly, so bitterly
that she did not hear the door open, or
Narva's step crossing the room ; she was
only made aware of her entrance when Narva
knelt down and took her in her arms and
drew her head upon her breast. Marguerite
gave herself up to the caress ; it was pitiful
and tender as ever one woman gave to
another. Narva had guessed her secret, and
it had fired her at first with a jealous fear
that lay close upon hatred ; but that was gone
now, and she felt nothing but compassion ;
she could afford to give her whole sympathy
to the woman who loved Basil, and loved him
hopelessly.

When the first paroxysm of tears had spent
itself, Marguerite raised her head from
Narva's shoulder, and they stood up together.

Oh, Narva, it is terrible !' she said.

Struggling with the sobs that made her bosom
heave. ' If we only knew that he was safe !'

He is safe, darling ; that we may be
certain of said Narva.

Oh, thank God ! I only heard that he
was gone ; that Sibyl had a few words saying
he had to fly. Where is he gone "^ do you
know ?'

He is making for the frontier ; and once
beyond it, he will be out of danger.'

Marguerite murmured something that was
swallowed up in a great sob. After a moment
she laid her hand on Narva's shoulder,
and putting her lips close to her ear :

Tell me,' she said, in a whisper that was
scarcely audible, ' is it — is he only accused of
politics, or is it — anything else, do you
know ?'

They have accused him of nothing worse
than of hating tyrants and of conspiring
against them.'

^Ah!'

The exclamation sounded like a gasp of
relief.

They were silent for a minute, standing
close together, Narva, like a strong archangel,
with her arm thrown protecting
round the small, childlike figure that was
still shaken with sobs.

Darling,' said Narva, ' you are too
agitated to come downstairs, or see anyone
this evening. I will put you to bed, and tell
them that you were not well.'

Marguerite understood. She kissed Narva,
and gave herself up like a child to be undressed
and put to bed.

CHAPTER X.

WAITING FOR FATHER CHRISTOPHER.

ONSIEURDEBEAUCRILLON

wanted to be off next morning.

Sibyl had some difficulty in making
him see that this was impossible : there was a
multitude of things to be done, she urged —
things that she alone could do. All the
festivities and hospitalities had been countermanded
and put off; but preparations for
these had been made on the grandest scale,
and this involved a arose settling of accounts
that no one else could attend to. Besides
these reasons, Basil had enclosed to her in
his own short note a letter for' Father
Christopher, which he desired she would

hand him herself. Sibyl could not leave this
commission unfulfilled ; and, moreover, it was
out of the question her going away without
seeing Father Christopher, quite independently
of other impediments. The Mayor,
in answer to her inquiry whether they were
to expect the Father that day, sent word that
no message had been received from X., but
that it was not likely he would be set free
before Monday, certain formalities having to
be gone through before a prisoner was
released, even after the receipt of the order
to that effect.

what confounded humbug!' said M. de
Beaucrillon ; ' the brutes are just doing it in
order to make me spend another Sunday in
this place. Well, look here, Sibyl ; Fll wait
till Monday, but on Tuesday morning we
start. There is a limit to what man can
bear.'

My dear Gaston, the limit is very soon
reached with you,' said Sibyl.

'Just look at her!' Gaston said, appealing
to Narva ; ' look at the state her eyes are in !

The lids are so red and swollen that they
are frightful to behold, and she looks about
thirty ! Your head is aching fit to split,' he
added, looking defiantly at his wife ; ' I know
it is. You did not sleep an hour last night.
Just look at yourself in the glass, and see what
a complexion you have !'

There was something grotesque to Narva
in the spectacle of a man standing before his
wife, bewailing her swollen eyes and her
damaged complexion, when such grievous
anxiety was absorbing those around him.

If Father Christopher did not arrive tomorrow,
Saturday, it was likely enough they
would retain him to keep the Sabbath day at
X., and not let him free until Monday, as the
Stanovoi suggested. M. de Beaucrillon made
up his mind to the worst, and heroically faced
the fact that he had still three whole days to
bear up under the deadly pall of this place.
He was anxious, unselfishly anxious, on Marguerite's
account, to be off. He could not
but see that she was looking wretched.

This place doesn't suit you, petite perle,'

he said, taking her chin between his finger
and thumb, and imprinting a brotherly kiss on
her forehead. ' I wish we were back in
France ; if we had to spend another month
here, you and Sibyl would be in your coffins ;
and I should probably be in mine. This
atmosphere of dramatic emotions, sudden
arrests, and hairbreadth escapes, of cruelty
and agonized despair, is enough to suffocate
any man not to the manner born. I feel as
if I were playing a subordinate and rather
contemptible part in a high tragedy. It is
intolerable.'

He remembered, however, that it was only
to last three days longer, so he took heart,
lighted a cigar, and went out for a ride. M.
de Beaucrillon was the only person at Yrakow
who rejoiced in the prospect of the approaching
departure. To Narva it was one of
bitter pain. Parting with Sibyl was to her like
parting with fire in midwinter. When Sibyl
went away, the glory of the land departed
with her. Eldorado to Narva was a place
where all the women were like Sibyl, and — if

this were possible even in Eldorado — all the
men like Basil. She had, it is true, a
supreme consolation to sustain her under
the present parting; but even this had its
drop of bitterness ; she felt guilty of a kind
of treachery in not telling Sibyl of her engagement.
She both longed and dreaded to
tell her. How would Sibyl take it ? Would
she open her arms and welcome her as Basil's
wife ? or would that pride of birth which ran
through her veins as naturally, and almost as
unceasingly, as her blood, rise up like a
snake and turn against the old sisterly love
and sting it to death ? Narva had been asking
herself this question ever since Basil had
slipped the ring upon her finger last night
But there were many other things she longed
to talk over with Sibyl : Basil's personal
concerns ; his chances of being forgiven and
permitted to return to Russia ; the possibility
of indefinite exile ; all that this involved —
the ruin of his career, the utter blight of his
prospects. But she dared not trust herself
to enter on these things, lest involuntarily

she might betray the secret which Basil enjoined
on her to keep strictly ; it seemed as
if the very tone in which she now pronounced
his name must tell a tale, it sounded
to herself so full of consciousness.

Sibyl, on her side, had a multitude of interests
that she wanted to talk over with
Narva ; but she made up her mind to wait
until the tiresome necessary things were
done, and then to devote the remaining short
time to undisturbed enjoyment of her friend.
One thing she did enter on at once that afternoon.
It was to ask Narva to come with
Tante Nathalie and spend the winter at the
castle, instead of living in their cottage in the
village. But Narva refused. She loved the
lordly old fortress, with its towers and stately
rooms and echoing galleries, and pictures and
works of art ; these surroundings were as
pleasant and congenial to her as space and
the free air of nature to the denizens of the
forest ; but she could not stay in possession
of them now that they were prospectively
her own ; there would be a sort of hypocrisy

in accepting Sibyl's offer, it seemed to her ;
so she declined it on the plea that they, two
lone women, would feel less lonely in their
snug little cottage, with humble neighbours
all round them, than in the splendid solitude
of the castle.

Next morning, Saturday, M. de Beau-crimson
proposed, the moment he came downstairs,
that if Father Christopher was not
back by twelve o'clock, or if there was no
assurance of the exact time of his return,
Sibyl should drive in to X. after lunch and
see the governor of the prison, and ask what
the delay meant. Sibyl began to protest at
the utter foolishness of such a step, which
would advance nothing, besides wasting one
of the last precious days at Yrakow ; but
her husband was resolute, so she yielded.

We shall have a quiet time together on
the road, anyhow ; that will be something,'
she said to Narva.

Narva was glad ; glad, above all, to feel that
Sibyl held to a quiet time with her ; that she
was sighing for one of those heart-to-heart

talks they had been used to in old times,
and had scarcely enjoyed with real satisfaction
during these three weeks when Sibyl
had been taken up with hospitable cares and
activities.

Marguerite was to drive down in the pony-carriage
with Narva to see Tante Nathalie
after lunch.

To think that I have not been to see your
mother all this time !' she said regretfully ;
and now I am only going to say good-bye.'

At eleven o'clock it began to rain — a heavy,
slanting rain that drove against the windowpanes
and washed them. The rain stopped,
and it began to snow ; first in a sleety shower,
then in thick flakes that made a white fog,
and quickly spread a white layer on the wet
ground. The drive to X. was a dreary outlook.
There was just the possibility, however,
that it might be avoided. Father
Christopher might return before they set out.
If he came, he would come early, the
Stanovoi said.

The snow continued to fall with increasing

VOL. I. I I

volume ; the wind rose, and blew steadily
from the north, driving the flakes furiously
before it. Twelve o'clock came. There was
no message, and no arrival. The carriage
was to be ready at one, and take Narva and
Marguerite down to Tante Nathalie for half
an hour, and then return to take Sibyl and
Narva in to X.

Sibyl was in the library, writing off the last
notes. She was so busy that she did not
hear the luncheon-bell. Marguerite came
and fetched her ; but they had scarcely
entered the dining-room when a servant
rushed in with the news that a carriage,
which had been coming at full speed along
the X. road, had just entered the park.

It is Father Christopher !' cried Sibyl ;
and with a chorus of glad exclamations they
all hurried into the drawing-room, where a
large bow-window commanded the drive
almost to the lodge-gate.

The carriage came on through the blinding
snow. Sibyl was laughing and crying with
joy ; Marguerite was in a flutter of excitement

; Narva, outwardly calm, but with a
beating heart, watched the carriage drawing
near.

Let us meet him in the hall,' said M. de
Beaucrillon, as the horses swept round to the
terrace.

They ran out, ready with a joyous
welcome.

The door was open ; but it was not Father
Christopher who stood on the threshold. It
was an officer in uniform.

The Countess de Beaucrillon T he inquired,
looking from one to another of the
three ladies.

Sibyl stepped forward, and he handed hera
letter.

She tore it open, and ran her eye down
the page. Then, with a piercing scream,
My God ! they have sent him to Siberia !'

II

marguerite's vocation.

INTER reigned at Yrakow in all
its severity. The castle, with its
mighty bastions and battlements
sheeted in snow, went shelving down to the
white forest ; the fields on every side presented
an interminable rolling white plain ;
the whole earth was buried deep in snow ;
and still it snowed, and snowed. Narva would
stand at the window and watch the flakes
falling until the monotony of the motion
almost sent her to sleep. The ghost-like
stillness was overpowering; it seemed to
wrap everything in a winding-sheet. Not a
sound made a break in it all day long. In

the night-time, the wolves came down into
the village and howled ; but except for that
dismal concert, the land might have been a
graveyard, so profound was the hush. Any
sound would have been a relief — the voice
of a man, the cry of an animal, the creaking
of a waggon ; but these would have seemed as
phenomenal as if the stars had begun to talk
in the midnight skies.

The death-like silence of external nature
was made doubly oppressive to Narva by
the moral silence which enveloped her like a
shroud. Life was becalmed in a fog. She
never heard from Basil. He had not sent
her a sign since they had kissed and parted
after that ride of hers to X. This cessation
of all intercourse between them was inevitable ;
but at times it was unbearable. If she could
have moved away anywhere, have changed
place, it would have helped her, for the immobility
of life adds fearfully to its weight
and weariness ; the spirit is wonderfully relieved
sometimes by the flight of the body,
and the old Egyptians expressed a common

human need, as well as a deep spiritual
mystery, in their emblem of the sistrum
agitated on either side of the sitting god fora
sign that motion was Life, and stagnation
Death. There was nothing to stir the waters
round Narva, and her moral life seemed to be
stagnating like a pool in the desert.

Tante Nathalie's rheumatism and peevish
complaining did not enliven the monotony
much. She, good soul, found excitement
enough in her own troubles, past and present,
in her knitting, and the few comings and
goings of the morning. This daily routine,
with the ever new interest of ordering the
meals and lecturing the servant, was enough
to keep her occupied ; but Narva's hungry,
ardent soul craved for something more, and
the dull white days and the long black nights
dragged on with intolerable weight.

Sibyl's letters were the solitary incidents
that broke the leaden monotony of her life.
Sibyl gave her news of Basil. They had
agreed to speak of him as ^ M, Charles,' a
cousin of Gaston's. But even this disguise

had to be carefully used, for of course the
letters were opened. M. Charles could not
send messages to Narva, whom he was supposed
never to have seen. Sibyl could only
say that he was hoping to make her acquaintance,
and Inquiring when she was coming to
France, etc. He was himself in Italy, studying
painting ; he hoped to come to Paris in
the spring, unless his father insisted on his
accompanying him to Scotland, alias Russia.
These meagre details were to Narva like
drops of water to a thirsty soul.

About her own life Sibyl spoke freely. It
was evidently a very pleasant one, full of gay
activities, balls, concerts, dinners, and all the
brilliant devices of modern society for making
the days fly ; there were also benevolent
contrivances for helping the destitute, and
very pleasant opportunities they seemed to
be, by Sibyl's accounts. But what interested
Narva most In these personal records was the
place that her absent self filled in them. She
seemed seldom long out of Sibyl's thoughts,
however busy or brilliant the chapter of her

life might be. ' Oh, Narva, I miss you so
terribly ! I feel your absence more and more
every day. There Is nobody like you — nobody
whose sympathy is like yours,' etc., etc.
Words like these recurred at every page, and
they were as wine to Narva. It gave her
confidence in herself to be reckoned thus
amongst the best values of Sibyl's life. Since
Sibyl, who had all the world to choose from
Sibyl, whose taste was so refined, whose
sympathies were so noble, whose instinct was
so true — since Sibyl set such store upon her,
she could not be the poor worthless creature
she sometimes fancied herself in moments of
despair. Then she would remember that
Basil loved her ; that she was his affianced
bride ; that he too was reckoning the days
until he could claim her for his own, and
present her to Sibyl and all the world as his
wife. She could surely afford to wait, and to
be patient under the present, when the future
held such joy in store for her.

Marguerite wrote occasionally, brightly and
affectionately. But towards the close of the

winter, Sibyl began to speak of Marguerite
with anxiety : the child's health was very
delicate ; there was no organic ailment, but
she was drooping like a flower ; they had had
several excellent offers of marriage for her,
but she had refused them all, giving no reason
except that she was not in a hurry to marry.

Narva read all this with growing apprehension.
Could it be that Marguerite's
feeling for Basil had been deep enough to
make her shrink from the idea of ever
marrying anyone else ? Narva had never
contemplated such trouble as this. She had
hoped, and had come honestly to believe, that
it had been a mere passing flame, such as
the first accomplished man she meets kindles
easily in the heart of a very young girl. It
would indeed be an added weight on Narva's
spirit if bright little Marguerite was entering
on life with a broken heart.

One day^a letter came announcing that the
doctors had ordered her to go south, and
travel for a couple of months.

The remedy comes most opportunely,'

Sibyl said. ' M. Charles has been lingering
on in Florence, intending to go to Rome for
Lent. It will be delightful for us to join him
there, and I am very much in need of a
change myself Marguerite had at first
seemed charmed at the idea of going to
Rome, but all of a sudden, when the programme
was settled, she changed her mind,
and has been nervous and depressed ever
since. The doctors say this unreasonable
state of feeling is only an additional proof
that she wants change, and they assure us
the journey will set her right. We are
now in the bustle of packing, and I shall
probably not write again until we are
starting.'

Narva could not pretend to herself that
this letter was not a shock. She was not
jealous ; she did not for a moment doubt
the strength of Basil's constancy ; but it was
hardly in woman's nature that she should not
feel uncomfortable at the prospect of his being
thrown for two months into daily and hourly
companionship with a charming girl who was

deeply in love with him, and whom he was
already very fond of. Oh no, Narva was
not jealous ; but her heart rose in passionate
rebellion against the cruel fate which put
mountains and seas between her and Basil,
and forced him into the society of Marguerite.
And it was Sibyl's doing ! For the first time
in her life, Narva felt angry with Sibyl. It
was very well to talk about the lucky chance
that had brought this meeting about ; it was
much more likely the result of Sibyl's clever
manoeuvring. She had long ago set her
heart on this marriage ; fate, which was fighting
against Narva with such overpowering
odds, was playing into Sibyl's hands — those
pearly, poteldes hands whose soft touch had
such a compelling power, and had always
made everybody and everything bend to
their will. They were now bending Marguerite's
destiny to it. Was it quite impossible
that they should eventually bend
Basilisk

Narva was as restless in the narrow
cottage rooms as a strong, untamed creature

In a cage. It was horrible to carry this gunshot
wound in her flesh, and to be forced
to go about with a smiHng countenance, discussing
with Madame Larik the best way of
preparing the codfish for dinner. The comedy
of Hfe was intolerable. Why should heaven
and earth be set against her, as they had been
from her cradle up .'^

Narva, you are singing like a soul in Purgatory
crying out for prayers,' said her mother,
as poor Narva gave vent to her misery in a
strain of passionate music.

Mother, I am a soul in Purgatory,' she
answered with a dry laugh. ' It is my firm
belief that this life is Purgatory, and that
in the next there will be only Heaven and
Hell'

Dear ! dear ! what a wonderful notion you
have about things ! Your head is too full of
poetry, child ; not but that there may be some
sense in what you say. I do believe this life
is Purgatory to many of us, and mostly to
those who don't want any Purgatory, one
would think. Alas ! alas !'

Narva knew that the concluding sigh was
directed to Father Christopher. Each knew
that he was seldom out of the other's mind,
but, as if by tacit consent, they never spoke
of him.

A week went by. There was a fresh fall of
snow in the night. The next morning the
wind rose, and blew with its might from the
north. A peasant coming on horseback from
X. said the roads were impassable from the
drifts that rose like embankments at intervals.
For the next week traffic was suspended. If
Prince Zorokoff had been at home, or Count
Larchoff alive, there would have been an
army of scavengers at work ; but there was no
one there now to press the peasants into the
service. Even the Stanovoi was away at X.,
which was pleasant in this weather than
snowed-up Yrakow.

At the end of three weeks the welcome
face of the postman appeared at the cottage-gate.
He brought two letters from Sibyl.
One bore the Paris postmark, the other that
of Palermo. Narva went up to her room

to read them alone. She opened the one
from Paris first.

I have a most extraordinary piece of news
to tell you, Narka/ Sibyl began. ' I ought to
have written to you sooner, but I was so
bewildered at the first moment that I had not
the courage to finish a letter I had just begun
to you.

I told you that Marguerite showed the
strangest reluctance to go to Italy when
everything was settled. It puzzled us all.
She was very nervous and quite miserable,
but gave no explanation of her sudden change.
At last, one morning before I was up, she
came into my room, and sat on the edge of
my bed, and said : " I have something to say
that will be a surprise, and I fear a disappointment,
to you. I can't go with you to
Italy. I have made up my mind to be a
Sister of Charity." I was so taken aback
that I could not speak for a moment, but just
stared at her as if she had gone mad. " I
have been thinking about it for a long time,"

she went on, " and I am now quite sure it is
my vocation. The idea of going to Rome
and seeing the Holy Father tempted me at
first ; but I soon saw it was only a temptation,
and that I must not yield to it ; so instead of
going off with you and Gaston, I am going
to the Rue du Bac to make my novitiate." I
really did think that the child had gone out
of her mind. *' Why," I said, '' you will be
dead in a month ; the hardships of the life
will kill you." She laughed, and said, '' Oh
no ; I promise you not to be dead before two
months ; you will be back in time to see me
alive." I did not know whether to burst outcrying
or to be very angry. She looked so
sweet and bright, and yet there was something
so unnatural in the idea of her doing such a
thing. Oh, Narva, if you could have seen
the expression of her eyes, those clear brown
eyes of hers, when she went on to talk about
the happiness of giving her whole life to God,
and making atonement for those who offend
Him ! The idea of atonement seems to have
taken hold of her like an idle fixe. I said

that if she had had a wicked father, or if anyone
belonging to her had committed a crime,
I could understand it ; then there would be
some sense, or some show of reason, in her
putting on a stuff gown, and burying herself
in slums and hospitals ; but she said that
every sinner was her brother, and she felt a
call to suffer and atone for them. In fact,
she has atonement on the brain.

She asked me to break the news to
Gaston. I was quite ill at the thought of
having to do it. I have such a horror of
seeing anybody in pain ; above all, anyone I
love. However, it had to be done ; so I did
it. He cried like a child, dear Gaston. But
he was not at all as shocked as I expected.
He said if it was her vocation he would not
lift a finger to hold her back. He talked like
a theologian about people being ^* called to the
religious life." I never could have believed
Gaston knew so much about theology ; but
Frenchmen are so strange ; they are full of
contradictions. I was so upset by all these
emotions that I had to keep lying down all

the afternoon, with compresses of eau sedative
on my head ; and '

Narva at this point let the letter drop,
and, interlacing her long white fingers, she
straightened up her arms above her head,
and heaved a great gasp of relief. It was
not for herself that she was relieved. Oh
no ; it was for Marguerite ! Gentle, sensitive
little Marguerite, who had escaped from such
a cruel ordeal. Loving Basil as she did, it
would have been torture to the child to be
thrown into constant companionship with
him, to be the object of his brotherly solicitude,
to be forced under the charm of his
sympathetic nature — a charm that no one
came near Basil without succumbing to.
How could she have endured this for two
whole months, and not gone out of her mind }
Narva lay back for a long moment, considering
the danger and the pain that Marguerite
had been spared.

This improvised vocation was of course a
stratagem to escape from an intolerable trial.

VOL. I. 12

They might safely let her go to the Rue du
Bac during their tour to Italy ; they would
find on their return that the vocation had
come to an end. Narva smiled as she
thought of Marguerite giving up her flowers
and dainty coquettish toilets for the gray
gown and the corvette. But, as she smiled,
she felt a sudden prick of remorse and doubt.
Could it be that the idea of offering up her
young life in atonement had become an
idle fixe strong enough to impel her to the
sacrifice ?

Narva would not dwell on this possibility.
There was another letter of Sibyl's to be
read. She opened it with a pleasant anticipation
of interest :

Here we are, with ilexes and oranges
making a background to the loveliest villa
you can imagine ! The roses are scenting
the air till the sweetness makes one tipsy.
If only you were here to enjoy it with us,
dearest Narva ! No delight is complete tome
without you. You would find out so

many beauties that I can't see, and you
would sing all this exquisite idol to me with
that heavenly voice of yours ! Well, some
day, please God, we shall see it together. . . .
We had a most comfortable journey, and
already Marguerite looks better for the
change. — Oh ! I forgot I had not written to
you since I told you of the bombshell she
threw at us about her vocation. Well, after
a week spent in pleading and coaxing, appealing
to her love for us, to every motive
that could move her, the matter was decided
by the Superiors of the white corvette, a
most fascinating woman, and a saint (Gaston
says, who had several long talks with her).
She told Marguerite that it would be better
in every way for her to come away for the
change, because the doctor of the community
was in great doubt whether her health in its
present state would prove equal to the hardships
of the life ; consequently the wisest
thing would be to get up her strength before
she made the trial. Marguerite was greatly
disappointed at first, but after a day or so

12 — 2

she seemed to take a more cheerful view of
things, and was quite satisfied to come away.
And you can't imagine how much better she
already looks — so much less pale and languid.
She is in excellent spirits.

M. Charles joined us at Naples. We
were all delighted to meet. He is very thin,
and looks a good deal older ; but his health
is good. We do our best to cheer him, and
he is so happy to have us near him !'

Narva did not see what more Sibyl wrote.
The reaction from the intense elation of the
first letter to the disappointment of this made
her feel sick. She sat, with the two letters
in her lap, in a kind of half-stupor. Her
mother's voice calling to her made her start
as if she had been asleep, in a bad dream.
Madame Larik knew that letters had come,
and was impatient, of course, to hear all
about them. Narva stood for a moment to
recover her self-possession, and make up her
mind how much she should tell. Perhaps it
was best to read the letters as they were.

There was nothing in them that she need
conceal, and the mere communicating of their
contents would be a relief.

She went down to the sitting-room and
read them aloud, and found Madame Larik a
most responsive listener.

What nonsense to talk of being a Sister
of Charity ! The pretty young creature !
Of course there is a love affair at the bottom
of it. Why does not Princess Sibyl find it
out and settle it .'^'

But you hear what M. de Beaucrillon
says '^ He would not oppose her entering
the convent in the least.'

Then he ought to be ashamed of himself.
I thought better of the Count. He was exceedingly
polite to me. I suppose it is some
great noble who has no money, or who has
more than Mademoiselle Marguerite. Princess
Sibyl told me that marriages in France
are such matters of business ! What a pity
she and our young Prince could not take to
each other ! Who knows but they may, now
that they are going to be together for a few

months ? I can't think why Prince Basil did
not fall in love with her here.'

This was hard to hear and respond to ;
but Narva felt it was not so hard as having
to stifle the mention of the subject altogether.

BASIL S CONFESSION.

HE weather had improved, the wind
had fallen, and it was now possible
to get out. The deep snow of
course put riding out of the question ; Narva
regretted this, for she was a perfect horsewoman,
and there was a favourite Arab of
Sibyls at the castle which was always at her
orders. Her fearless command of the strong,
spirited animal that bore her along with a
stride as swift as a hound's gave her a sense
of power that was exhilarating. While she
was in the saddle, flying through the air like
a bird, she felt like a prisoner enjoying a
momentary escape from captivity. The flight

of the body seemed to liberate the spirit and
give her breathing-space. Indoors she was
obliged to keep strict guard over every look
and gesture ; she had to keep down her very
thoughts with a strong hand lest they should
find their way into her face, and betray her to
Madame Larik's watchful eyes. This constant
pressure on her life — that inner life
which, to Narva, was so much more vital
than the outward — made her sometimes feel
as if she were, like the rivers, frozen and
locked up in ice. When this feeling grew
strong, she would take out the betrothal ring
that she wore round her neck like an amulet,
and she would slip it on her finger, and recall
every word, every caress, of Basil's when he
had placed it there, until her spirits rose and
her heart expanded, and she could look forward
to the coming spring, when the sun
would shine out upon her life, and unlock its
frozen stream and set its waters free.

The next best thing to a ride was a drive ;
so the first day the weather grew genial
enough to admit of it she sent up to the

castle, where there were horses and vehicles
of all sorts, to say she wanted a sleigh that
afternoon. It was at the door at the hour
she named.

The winter landscape was beautiful. The
cabins and cottages, sheeted in smooth, hard
snow, looked like marble shrines and tombs,
from which the smoke curled up in blue
spirals, like incense from thuribles. As the
sleigh turned into the forest, the sun shone
out, and the spectacle was so dazzling that
Narva made the Cossack pull up, and paused
to admire it. The wilderness of white trees
stretched on and on as far as the eye could
reach, tossing up their arms in every fantastic
form against the sky ; every bough was
festooned with garlands of snow flowers, or
laden with bunches of crystals that sparkled
like diamonds in the sunlight. The forest
might have been a cathedral in ruins, so profound
was the silence ; not the faintest
murmur of insect-life disturbed the deep hush ;
the very air held its breath. Suddenly a
branch, not strong enough to support its

mass of glittering stalactites, snapped and fell ;
the crash broke the stillness for a moment, but
only to make it seem more profound the next.

There was something very impressive in
this death-like silence of the white solitude
that held so many secrets buried in its depths,
so many mysteries that would never be revealed
in this world. The forest was like the
sea : it seldom gave up its dead. There was
a pile of stones on the spot where Larchoff
had been found. It had risen slowly ; every
stone that went to the heap had been flung
with a curse, and this was the only monument
which had been raised to the murdered
man. As Narva noticed the snow-crusted
trophy, a chill crept over her. Would that
dark secret ever be revealed ? The thought
of Father Christopher made her heart sick,
and yet she could not deny that the crime —
or the accident — might have been followed
by even a more unbearable sacrifice than his
cruel captivity.

She told the Cossack to drive on, and felt
sorry that she had stopped ; the sight of that

mound chased away every other thought, and
poisoned the pleasure of the drive. The
sleigh bounded along for nearly an hour.
Then she turned homeward, taking another
road, that led past Ivan Gorff's house.

The absence of Ivan and Sophie was a
great loss. They were not close friends ;
but Narva had known them all her life, and
they were kind and pleasant neighbours.
Moreover, Ivan would be sure to have news
of Basil. Ivan's resources were numerous,
sometimes mysteriously so.

As the sleigh was passing the gate, Narva
was surprised to see the windows of the first
story, where Sophie's rooms were, open.
Could the Gorffs have returned ? She desired
the Cossack to turn in. The gate
stood open, and as the sleigh flew up the
broad walk to the house, Ivan himself
appeared at a window. Before they had
reached the door, he was in the hall waiting
for her.

This is a good omen !' he said, his whole
countenance beaming with delighted surprise ;

I only arrived an hour ago. I was just
going to see you.' He was radiant with
pleasure, but his face wore deep traces of
suffering, either moral or physical ; perhaps
both.

How are you, Ivan ?' said Narva, in a
tone of kind anxiety that he was not used to
from her.

I am well,' he answered with a shrug of
his broad shoulders ; ' better than I ought to
be, considering. Sophie is not well.'

Oh, 1 am so sorry !' said Narva feelingly.
Is it her chest ?'

Yes. She has a cough that shakes her to
pieces. It is always in my ears like a death-knell.
But I am a fool. She is better out
of the world than in it. Have you had any
news lately ?' he asked, turning abruptly from
the subject. It was evidently one he could
not bear to discuss.

No. Sibyl is afraid to give me much
news.'

She can't be too careful, or you either,'
Ivan added with a significant nod. ' That

is why Basil does not dare write. Every
line you write or receive is read. He is
in good health. I saw him ten days ago.
He was '

Ten days ago !' Narva interrupted eagerly.
How is he ? What is he doing ?'

He is waiting,' said Ivan, in his quiet
way. ' Have you heard about his confession
?'

Confession ?' repeated Narva, and she
changed colour ; ' no.'

As soon as he heard the trick they had
played him about Father Christopher's release,
he wrote to the Prince, telling him that
it was he who had shot Larchoff.'

What ! — Basil wrote that T

He said he had fired at him by mistake ;
that he would have acknowledged it at the
moment, but he had not the courage to
declare that he had accidentally taken the life
of a man whom he was known to hate and to
be on bad terms with. When Father Christopher
was accused, he thought the best
thing to do was to go to St. Petersburg and

sue for his release. And they cheated him
into believing he had made it all right.'

And then ? What did the Prince do ?'

Ivan gave a slow smile.

He sent him word that his confession
came too late to do any good to Father
Christopher. Basil might have known this.
What is written is written. The Prince said
if he wanted to play heroics he might come
back and give himself up as the murderer,
and get sentence of death added to the
sentence that was ready awaiting him for his
other misdemeanours. This would not in the
smallest degree help Father Christopher, but
it would be a fine thing to do.'

• And what did Basil answer ?'

He wrote a letter to the Emperor, telling
the whole story, and pledging his honour to
go back and deliver himself up to justice, if
his Majesty would sign an order for the
Father's liberation.'

My God ! . . . Well Y

I never could have believed Basil was
such a fool,' continued Ivan, turning his face

to Narva, with his slow smile and his eyes
brimming over with hilarity. 'What do you
think he did ? He guessed that, as the
Prince had so many good friends in the
Imperial closet, there was little chance of this
letter being allowed to reach the Emperor's
hands, so he confided it to the servant who
had brought him the Prince's letter, and gave
him a lot of money to take it to a person
in St. Petersburg, who was to convey it
to the Emperor. Could you have believed
Basil would be such a fool ?'

Ivan seemed quite to enjoy the revelation
of Basil's foolishness.

The servant did not deliver the letter ?'
said Narva, breathless and impatient.

'He did deliver it — to the Prince, of
course.'

Ah ! . . . And what did the Prince
do?'

He put it into the fire. What else could
he do ?'

Narva tried to steal a deep breath unnoticed.


I suppose,' she said, ' one could not expect
he would have done otherwise.' Then,
after a pause : ' Did Basil do anything after
this ?'

Basil, in due course, received an answer

from Prince W , his Majesty's secretary,

informing him that his august master was not
deceived by his generous subterfuge for saving
the life of Father Christopher; and, moreover,
admitting even that this particular charge
against Father Christopher was false, there
were a score of others proved, some that
would have hanged him had not the Imperial
clemency been extended towards him for the
sake of Prince Zorokoff. After this Basil
gave up the game. He had played badly,
luckily for himself.'

Narva, in her heart, echoed * Luckily for
himself!' But she was proud to know that
Basil had done his utmost to set Father
Christopher free, even at the sacrifice of
his own liberty and the risk of his life. After
a pause, she said :

Do you believe that Basil shot Larchoff ?'

No, I don't replied Ivan.

You think he accused himself to obtain the
Father's release ?'

No, I don't.'

Then what do you think ?' asked Narva
impatiently.

I believe he thought he shot Larchoff.
He told me he fired at what he took for a fox
crouching behind a tree ; there was a sound
of something falling with a heavy thud on
the dry brambles ; but as it was growing dark,
he did not care to grope to the spot and
examine his game ; he meant to tell the
keeper ; but when he got home he forgot
all about it, and it was only when the news
came of Larchoff's being found murdered
that, like a flash of lightning, he saw he had
shot him.'

It looks likely enough,' observed Narva
in an undertone, as if communing with herself.


If it had been Larchoff, he would have
cried out, for he was not shot dead — he did
not even lose consciousness. He was sensible

VOL. I. I \

to the last, and the doctor said he had been
bleeding for a couple of hours, and that half
an hour earlier he would still have had
strength, most likely, to tell everything. It
was loss of blood that did for him.'

Then who do you suppose shot him ?'
inquired Narva, fixing an anxious gaze on
Ivan.

Ivan's big shoulders went slowly up, and
then slowly down.

It may as likely have been Father Christopher.
The wood was too dark for anyone
to take aim with safety ; but everybody was
on the qui vive about the wolf, and anxious to
get the reward Basil had put on the brute's
head.'

Father Christopher would not have been
looking out for that ; and he did not carry
arms when he went on sick calls,' argued
Narva dubiously.

Not in a general way. But there was the
wolf, remember. I don't want to fasten it on
Father Christopher,' Ivan continued, turning
his candid glance on her ; * I only want to

prove that it was as likely to be his doing as
Basil's. I did my best to make Basil see
this, but he will have it that his bullet hit
Larchoff. And he accuses himself of having
killed Father Christopher, as well as Lar-chaff,
by not acknowledging the accident
at once. If I had not come in the nick
of time, he would have been off to St.
Petersburg, and given himself up as a
prisoner.'

*' Oh !' Narva exclaimed with a shudder,
that woitld have been madness !'

Stark madness, and without compensation
of any sort. In the first place, he would not
have released Father Christopher ; and in the
next place, he would have ruined Princess
Sibyl, and probably the Prince ; the property
would have been confiscated, and the sin
of the son would most likely have been
visited immediately on the father. But I had
hard work to make Basil see this.'

But you did make him see it T

Yes, I finally did.'

How did you hear all about the 



carriage of his letter ?' Narva asked — ' about
the forged answer sent from the Emperor ?'
Not forged — false ; the letter was written

by Prince W . Prince Zorokoff told me

the story himself when I went to him to St.
Petersburg with a letter from Basil'

It apparently did not occur to Ivan that
there was anything shameful In the systematic
trickery of the Prince, or in his, Ivan's,
making himself a tacit accomplice in it. To
Narva it was a genuine satisfaction, an intense
relief, to learn that Basil had endeavoured
to undo the wrong he had done,
and to feel at the same time that Ivan
and the Prince stood between him and
any future rash promptings of honour, or
remorse.

Are you going to make any stay here ?'
she asked.

No ; I leave tomorrow morning.'

You are not likely to see Basil soon
again ?'

I shall see him at Easter. By the way,
he gave me a letter for you,' Ivan said

casting about for his pocket-book, as if it
were by chance he had remembered it.

And to think of your not telling me that
at once !' said Narva, as he handed her the
precious letter.

I had more to tell you than Basil has put
in his letter ; that I'll swear to,' replied Ivan
good-humouredly. ' Are you going ? Won't
you wait to read it ?'

No ; it has waited so long, it can wait till
I get home.' Narva was not going to open
that letter before him, and run the chance of
betraying herself. ' Give my love to Sophie,'
she said, ^ and ask her to write to me. Or
write to me yourself, and give us news of
her ; that will be better.'

Ivan accompanied her downstairs, and
assisted her into the sleigh, and stood watching
her as it drove down the avenue, and disappeared
along the road.

Nares OATH.

ARK A went straight home, and
hurried up to her room, locked
the door, and took out Basil's
letter. It was not a long one. This is what
he said :

You have not misunderstood my silence.
It was safest for you, and you are my first
care in life. It was enough for each of us to
know that the other was well. Don't lose
heart. The time will not be long, please
Heaven ! Let this hope sustain you, as it
does me. Every day I remember our last
moments together. I am yours for ever,
through life and death.'

It was a cold love-letter. But Narva read
between the lines all that she wanted to see
written there, and the very absence of any
terms of endearment had in it a strength of
assurance that satisfied her. It surprised hera
little that Basil should not have confided
the truth about their mutual relationship to
Ivan ; but she quickly reminded herself that
this contrast between his reserve towards
a true and devoted friend, and his absolute
trust ill her was only a new proof of his
whole-hearted love. ' And so have I loved
you all my life he had said to her, when
he was placing his mother's ring on her
finger. And the memory of those words
thrilled Narva with such a great joy, that, for
the moment, fear, doubt, anxiety, every feeling
but perfect trust and secure happiness in his
love, gave way. What could Sibyl and Marguerite
and all the world together do against
that love which had grown with his growth,
and was strong enough to make him trample
pride and every worldly interest underfoot '^.
Narva kissed the letter tenderly, put it into

her pocket, and made herself ready to go
downstairs.

By the time she had taken off her things,
she was calm enough to meet her mother,
and tell her of the unexpected meeting with
Ivan, and the good news of his having seen
Basil. This gave them enough to talk about
for the rest of the day. Narva's spirits had
risen suddenly to overflowing gaiety, and
when that evening she sat down to the piano,
Madame Larik could not have compared her
voice to the crying of a soul in Purgatory.
It sounded more like the singing of one of
the blessed in heaven, so thrilling was its
jubilation, so melting sweet its pathos, filling
the whole house with melody, as the song of
the bird overflows its cage and floods the
surrounding air with music.

And yet, for all she was so happy, Narva
slept uneasily that night. She had lain down
full of sweet thoughts of Basil ; but when
she fell asleep she dreamed a dreadful dream
about him. He came to fetch her, she
thought, and they drove away together ; the

sleigh flew over the snow for miles and miles ;
at last they stopped at a stone house standing
in the wilderness, with miles of snow stretching
round on every side. Basil got out of
the sleigh, and lifted her in his strong arms
into the low-roofed house, and kissed her,
and disappeared. Then she found herself
alone with a man in a black mask, and wearing
the uniform of the police ; he stood looking
at her in silence through the holes of his
mask, until the silent stare made her blood
run cold ; at last he slowly removed the
mask, and she beheld the dead face of
Larchoff The horror of the sight awoke
her.

It was not much to be wondered at that
the emotions of the day should have been
followed by a disturbed night ; but this dream
was so vivid that it left her nervous for sometime
after she awoke.

She dressed herself quickly, and went
down to make the coffee, which she always
carried up to her mother in bed. As she
passed the entry into the lite parlour there

was a ring, and presently the maid ushered
in a man wearing the hated uniform of the
police.

You are Narva Larik ?' he said, with the
abrupt directness of a person whose business
can dispense with formality.

Yes, I am Narva Larik.'

You are in correspondence with Prince
Basil Zorokoff?'

No, I am not.'

You are kept informed of his plans, and
he left papers in your keeping.'

He left me nothing, and I know nothing
of his plans,' Narva answered, meeting the
sharp scrutiny of the police officer without
quailing.

He seemed staggered, she thought, by her
confident bearing.

Will you swear to that }' he demanded.

I am not in the habit of swearing,' she
replied with quiet hauteur ; ' to those who
know me my word suffices.'

But to those who do not know you it does
not suffice,' observed the officer ; and he

drew from his pocket a long flat case, opened
it, and discovered an image of St. Nicholas.
'Swear upon that,' he said, holding it out to
her; * swear by the blessed St. Nicholas
that you have not in your possession any
papers belonging to Basil Zorokoff.'

For one moment Narva hesitated. For
one moment conscience staggered back from
the dreadful consummation ; her tongue was
held, as the murderer's finger is held on the
trigger before he pulls it ; red lightnings
danced before her ; then everything was a
blank. She laid her hand on the icon, and
said :

/ swear it P

The officer deliberately closed the case and
put it back into his pocket.

Another time I will take your word,' he
said with a cruel smile, ' You have perjured
yourself, and you are my prisoner. Come !'

CHAPTER XIV,

sibyl's manoeuvres.

HE de Beaucrillons were at Naples.
M. de Beaucrillon had gone fora
cruise in a friend's yacht, and
Basil, who was staying at an hotel close by,
had come to accompany Sibyl and Marguerite
in their afternoon ride. Just as the party
were about to start, however, Sibyl was
seized with a shivering fit, and said she had
taken a chill, and would stay at home.
Marguerite declared she did not in the least
mind giving up the ride, and was quite ready
to stay with her ; but Sibyl scouted the
notion of this, and insisted on her going for
her ride with Basil. Marguerite, reluctant

to leave her, and shrinking a little from
the long tete-astute with Basil, gave in, as
everybody did to Sibyl, and the two set out
together.

Sibyl watched them from the window as
they mounted and rode away, and said within
herself, impatiently, * If he has any sense, he
will have decided his own future and Marguerite's
before I see them again.'

Basil suspected that the chill had been
invented in order to provide him precisely
with this opportunity, and it annoyed him.
Sibyl had done her utmost to induce him to
pay his court to Marguerite, and cure her
of the silly delusion about her call to be a
Sister of Charity ; but Basil had positively
refused to make any such attempt. ' If she
has set her heart on a grand ideal,' he said,
I am not such a fop as to imagine I could
turn her from it by making love to her.'

His manner towards Marguerite was perfecta
mixture of chivalrous respect and brother-like
familiarity — and it irritated Sibyl the
more, because she could not find any fault

with it. It had seemed to her, however, that
within the last few days Basil showed signs
of falling, unconsciously perhaps, but unmistakably,
under the spell of Marguerite's
charm, and she was determined to give him
every opportunity of becoming hopelessly
enslaved. To-day, however, the chill had
been an honest chill, though it served her
purpose.

But the manoeuvring did not further her
designs. The ride was a success as a ride,
but an absolute failure as an opportunity for
flirtation, or even conversation.

On returning to the hotel they found that
Sibyl was in her room ; she had grown
rapidly worse ; the doctor had been sent
for, and ordered her to bed at once. She
sent word that Basil was to stay and dine,
and she hoped after an hour or two's
rest to be better, and able to see him in the
evening. This was all very clever, but Basil
was not duped by it ; it annoyed him, and he
would have gone back to dine at his hotel if
he had not been afraid it might have seemed

to Marguerite rude, or stupid. So they
dined en tete-astute.

After dinner, Sibyl's maid came to say that
Madame la Comtesse had a frightful headache,
and could not see either of them.

Basil went away about nine o'clock. It
was the end of January, but the weather was
balmy as if it had been September. The
sky was deep blue, and full of stars, Orion
prominent, striding across the zenith with his
glittering belt and his sword and his dogs.
Basil wondered whether he was shining more
brilliantly in the Northern skies at Yrakow
than here at Naples, and whether Narva was
looking at the same constellations from her
window amid the snow. He thought a great
deal about Narva. Since Marguerite's
arrival she was seldom out of his mind.
The loyalty of his nature was in arms to
protect her rights from the peril of Marguerite's
presence. He said to himself a
score of times a day, ' Narva is a noble
woman ; she loves me, and I owe her my
life.'

Narva might have looked into his heart
all the day long and not detected one disloyal
throb there. And yet, if she could
have seen how sternly his honour was mounting
guard over her image, it might have
pained her more, perchance, than a passing
infidelity, for which a warmer love would
have quickly atoned.

He was loath to go indoors, the night was
so glorious. He sauntered along the Chiaja,
listening to the angry growl of Vesuvius, and
watching the blue waters of the bay, so calm
that they reflected the stars like a second sky.
It was past midnight when he went back to
his hotel.

Next morning, he was dawdling over his
coffee, when a servant knocked at the door of
his room, and said there was a gentleman
outside asking to see him. Basil, surprised
at so early a visit, desired him to be shown
in. He uttered a loud exclamation of
pleasure on beholding Ivan Gorff, grasped
his hand, and pushed him into a chair, laughing
and rejoicing. But Ivan, instead of

responding in his usual quiet way, remained
ominously silent.

What is the matter ?' said Basil, in quick
alarm. ' My father ?'

He is well. I saw him four days ago.
But there is other trouble. Narva Larik Is
in prison.'

Basil sprang to his feet with a cry, and
then dropped back into his chair.

Ivan told the story that we know.

It was a providential chance that I heard
of the arrest at all,' he added. ' I was to
have left early next morning to catch the first
train from X., but I overslept, and missed it ;
so I went out to see the Larks, and heard
what had happened an hour before. It was
pitiable to see the poor mother ; she was half
mad with grief I went straight to St.
Petersburg, and told the Prince. He was
terribly distressed. He could not have been
more shocked if Narva had been his daughter.
He went off at once to the police to learn
where she was, and then to the Minister, and
set every engine at work.'

VOL. I. 14

Where Is she ?'
Ivan hesitated.

'Well,' he said, 'you will have to know:
she Is at Cronstadt.'

Oh, my God !' Basil stood up, then
walked the length of the room, muttering to
himself : ' Kronstadt ! O God ! It Is too
horrible. Narva ! Narva ! why was I born to
bring this horror upon thee ?'

He let himself drop Into a chair, hid his
face In his hands, and sobbed aloud.

Ivan waited a moment to let the first
violence of his agitation spend Itself before
he spoke.

You did, then, leave papers In her keeping
?'

I did — curses on me for a blind fool !'
Basil, with a strong effort, mastered his
emotion. * Did the police find them first,' he
asked, ' or did they force her to give them
up?'

They did neither. They turned the
cottage Inside out, but they found nothing ;
and Narva denied that she had anything belonging

to you. She had stuck to that denial
when I came away ; they got nothing out
of her after ten days in Kronstadt ; the
Prince '

Basil put up his hand with a quick gesture,
as if to stop Ivan from saying something that
would be intolerable.

I was going to say,' continued Ivan, 'that
she has suffered nothing worse than imprisonment
so far. The Prince has managed that,
and he will keep on paying to prevent it.'

Basil drew a deep breath.

I must at all risks go at once to St.
Petersburg, and see my father, and '

That would be madness, and it would not
help Narva,' interrupted Ivan.

Listen,' said Basil. And he related
rapidly the history of his threatened danger,'
his escape through Narva's assistance, and
his troth plighted to her before they parted.

Ivan's round blue eyes grew rounder as he
listened; but no one could have guessed that
the story excited in him any stronger emotion
than astonishment.

14 — 2

You Fee, at all risks I must go,' Basil
continued ; ' I must go and stand by her ; I
must tell my father the whole truth, and ask
him to come with me to the Emperor and
obtain her instant release

Ivan laid his broad hand heavily on his
friend's shoulder.

Take care that you don't close the prison
door on her irrevocably by overrate in trying
to open it. Your father is now moving
heaven and earth in her interest ; but do you
think if he knew that as soon as she was free
you meant to make her Princess Zorokoff,
he would work as hard for her release ? He
would feel it his first duty to himself and you
to leave her safe where she is. He would
not go to the Emperor and sue him to liberate
a low-born Jewess that she might be set up
at the head of the Zorokoffs. It would be a
choice of sacrificing her, or you. Do you
think he would hesitate T

When he hears that I owe her my life ?'
insisted Basil ; but there was more vehemence
than conviction in the way he said it. The

hard logic of Ivan's reasoning fell upon him
like the blows of a hammer ; his whole will
rose in rebellion against it, but he felt that it
was stronger than his will. ' Then, in
Heaven's name, what am I to do ?' he cried,
with the petulant despair of impotence.

Ask Princess Sibyl to go to St. Petersburg,
and throw herself at the feet of the Empress,
and implore her to obtain an order for Narva's
release. That is the only thing you can do
that will avail. But trust me, keep your
secret as close from the Princess as from your
father ; she is a Zorokoff, and it would be
sacrilege in her eyes to set the coronet of her
house on the head of a Jewess.' *

Basil winced. He felt the full truth of
this, and it exasperated him to find himself
powerless, stopped at every turn from lifting
a finger for the woman who had saved his
liberty, and been herself dragged into such
trials through his fault. It was like being
pinioned in a strait-waistcoat and forced to
look on while one dear to him was tortured.


I will go to Sibyl,' he said, * and you shall
tell her what has happened.'

They went at once to Sibyl's house. But
the valet met them at the door with a face
full of alarm.

I was coming to fetch you, Prince,' he
said. * Madame la Comtesse is very ill.
Monsieur le Comte has been sent for.'

The chill had been no pretence. Sibyl
was in high fever, tossing on her pillow,
delirious.

THE CLEMENCY OF THE CZAR.

HE fever ran Its course. Sibyl's
life was never in actual danger,
but it was six weeks before she
was able to leave her room, and then nearly
a month elapsed before the physicians felt
they might venture to tell her of Narva's
imprisonment. Even then, though Gaston
broke it to her with the gentlest precautions,
the shock affected her health seriously for
some days.

It is not necessary to say that the proposed
journey to St. Petersburg, with such excitement
awaiting her at the end of it, was postponed
indefinitely. The typhoid fever had

left mischief behind it, and as soon as she
was strong enough to bear the fatigue she
was to go to Schwalbach for the baths and
waters.

All these delays were terrible to Basil.
Without Ivan he could not have borne them.
But Ivan was a staff to them all. He lived
on the railway between St. Petersburg and
Kronstadt and Naples, taking flying visits to
the Crimea, where Sophie was rapidly fading
away. Owing to the largess he scattered
with royal generosity to the greedy wolves at
the fortress, he was able to obtain many alleviations
for Narva, and to convey written
messages between her and her mother. He
paid without counting, wherever there was
a man to be bribed, or a chance secured.

Marguerite had remained with Sibyl up to
the present. Her purpose was still unshaken.
Basil's companionship had not made her
falter ; and after the severe test of many
months' temptation she was more convinced
than ever that Heaven called her to renounce
all things for God's sake, and for the service

of the poor. Gaston, from the first, had not
attempted to oppose her ; and when Sibyl
was pronounced strong enough to go to
Schwalbach, Marguerite bade her farewell,
and returned to Paris, accompanied by her
brother.

The de Beaucrillons had given saints to
the cloister, and heroes to every battle-field:
the Church, the State, and the camp, and
more than one fair virgin face, shrouded in
the veil, looked down on Gaston de Beau-crimson
from the walls of his ancestral home.
The moment had now come for him to prove
that the high courage he had inherited from
a knightly race had not degenerated. He
loved his young sister with the tenderest
affection ; but when the day came, he went
with her to the Rue du Bac, and in that
whitewashed parloir that has so often seen
enacted the humble but divine drama of a
life's sacrifice, the brother and sister kissed
and parted.

Then M. de Beaucrillon rejoined his wife.

Prince Zorokoff was working in Narva's

behalf with a zeal that did credit to his heart ;
but, as his family well knew, this particular
exercise of zeal was precisely what best
suited his taste and capacity. The atmosphere
of a court was to him as the very
breath of heaven ; he was in his element in
the midst of its intrigues and ambitions ; the
splendid and awful chances which made life
under the eye of a despot a standing lottery,
where the prizes were wealth and titles, and
honours and miraculous rescues, and the
blanks torture, captivity, exile, and death,
were to this loyal Muscovite exhilarating as
wine.

He was impatient for Sibyl to come and
play her part in the present drama, and exert
her influence with the Empress, which would
be creditable to him as well as serviceable to
Narva. Finding, at last, that in spite of his
urgent appeals, M. de Beaucrillon insisted on
his wife's carrying out the doctor's injunctions,
without sacrificing one bath, the Prince resolved
to act on his own unaided resources,
and to entreat the Empress himself.

Our sovereign's birthday is approaching
wrote to Sibyl, ' and I will petition her on
that occasion for Narva. Her Majesty delights
to bestow happiness at all times, but
more especially does she love, in her adorable
goodness, to make this auspicious anniversary
a day of consolation to the sorrowful, and of
rejoicing for all her subjects.'

Nothing in Russian life and character
puzzled M. de Beaucrillon so much as this
servile worship of the Czar. The abject tone
used by a proud nobleman like Prince Zorokoff
in speaking of the despot who destroyed, or
destitute, human beings with no more compunction
than the mower cuts down the
poppies in drawing his scythe through the
grass, was a mystery that Gaston gave up
trying to solve. So inveterate was the habit
of slave-like homage in the Russian mind,
that even when writing to his own daughter
the Prince's language was as sycophantic as
if he were addressing his imperial master in
person, or speaking to a brother courtier who
might repeat his words. And the way Sibyl

acquiesced in her father's blind adoration was
still more incomprehensible.

The autocratic 7'dgi7ne had, however, its
redeeming point — it was exciting, it was
fruitful in emotions. They were generally of
a painful kind, but a joyful one was just now
in reserve even for Gaston. Sibyl had nearly
completed her course of baths at Schwalbach,
and was making ready to set out for St.
Petersburg, when she received a letter from
her father saying that the Emperor had
pardoned Basil, and appointed him Chamberlain
to the Empress ; whilst the Empress, on
her side, had implored and obtained Narva's
release. The Prince was on the point of
starting with Ivan Gorff for Kronstadt with
the order for her immediate liberation, and
they would then convey her back to Tante
Nathalie at Yrakow.

Sibyl's joy was only equalled by her
gratitude.

I always felt certain that the Emperor
would grant both petitions if they were
properly presented to him,' she said, crying

and laughing with delight. ' Our sweet
Empress ! our grand, magnanimous Emperor !
May their goodness bring down every blessing
on their heads !'

She clasped her hands, and raised her
drowned eyes to heaven in devotes supplication.


M. de Beaucrillon was going to retort, but
he shut his lips tight, with a widening grimace
expressive of determination to keep them
shut. He was too thankful for the cause of
these ardent benedictions to sneer at his
wife's loyal effusions ; but what, in the name
of justice and common-sense, had Narva done
to call forth this gratitude to the Emperor
for having ordered her to be let out of
prison ? Basil had misbehaved himself,
though how far his misconduct deserved the
severe punishment which had overtaken him,
and the still severer fate that he had escaped,
had never been explained ; but Narva on
some vague suspicion had been thrown into
a dungeon, and kept there five months,
although the active researches of the police

had failed to produce anything to substantiate
the smallest charge against her.
And because she was now liberated, the
heavens were to break and rain down dew
upon the heads of the sweet Empress and
the magnanimous Emperor ! Truly it was
strange to see Sibyl, the child of a freeborn
French mother, so completely the victim of
inherited paternal blindness as to invest the
caprice of an irresponsible tyrant with the
character of divine clemency.

It was a great relief in every way that the
journey to St. Petersburg was given up. M.
de Beaucrillon felt as if he had himself been
let out of prison when he set his face toward
France, with the prospect of respite, for a
time at least, from those sudden catastrophes
and hair-breadth escapes which made life
within breathing distance of a Russian atmosphere
a constant gasp and strain.

TIDINGS FROM BASIL.

YEAR had gone by since Narva's
release and Basil's restoration to
imperial favour. In that interval
many things had happened. Madame Larik
and Sophie Gorff had died, Sibyl had become
a mother, and Marguerite de Beaucrillon had
passed her novitiate, and put on the gray gown
and white corvette of a Sister of Charity.

Narva, after her mother's death, left
Yrakow and went to Koenigsberg, where
some old friends of her mother's resided. She
took with her nothing but her books and a
few little household gods, and her piano —
Sibyl's gift to her before her marriage. So

long as her mother Heed she had accepted
Prince Zorokoff's generous kindness; but once
alone, she refused to remain a pensioner on
his bounty, and went to Koenlgsberg, resolved
to support herself by giving lessons
in singing.

She and Basil had not met. His request
for a passport and short congo to go and see
his sister was met by a peremptory refusal,
and an intimation that he had better not
repeat the demand for at least a year. He
chafed, but submitted. Rebellion was useless.
He corresponded regularly with Narva, and
though his letters were guarded in their expressions,
Basil being, as he was aware, under
close surveillance, he was able to make her
feel that she was his chief object in life. He
was bitterly distressed at not being able to
repay her even a portion of his debt ; but
the Prince never had a rouble to spare ; he
was hard set to find money for his own extravagant
expenses, and to supply Basil with
the means of keeping up the costly decencies
of his position at Court. He kept him, in

fact, like a schoolboy, allowing him to run
up what bills he liked, but never giving him
any money.

Narva was, however, so far, in no straits.
She had a little sum from the sale of her
furniture to start with, and she had found
pupils enough to keep her moderate wants
supplied. The separation from Basil was her
great trial. Yet, though she suffered, she
was far from unhappy. She loved him, and
she believed undoubting in his love for her.
She was therefore like one only kept waiting
at the gate of Paradise, and soon to be
admitted to its lovely shade and sweet-scented
alleys.

Basil's plan was by patience to disarm all
suspicion of his purpose, and then obtain a
passport under pretence of going to see Sibyl ;
once free, he would marry Narva, and trust
to his father's forgiving him. It was a vague
enough plan, but it was the only one that held
out any hope of accomplishing their union ;
so Narva was content to abide by it, keeping
her heart quiet with blissful dreams of

VOL. I. 15

the future that each day drew nearer to
her.

Sibyl had written affectionately, offering
her a home after Tante Nathalie's death ;
but Narva had refused to accept it. She
preferred, and she knew that Basil preferred,
that she should remain independent of Sibyl
for the present. She gave, however, as a
reason for her refusal that she hoped to find
a centre of work very easily at Koenigsberg,
and that for a time at least it would be better
for her to be occupied, and amidst new scenes
and people. Sibyl assented ; and agreed that
change of association and work might, indeed,
be the best thing for her, after all that she had
gone through. Narva ought to have been
satisfied; but so inconsistent is human nature
that it sent a pang through her heart to see
Sibyl acquiescing in her reasons, instead of
contradicting and trying to overrule them.

So life seemed to have settled down into a
very narrow groove for poor Narva. Sibyl,
evidently, could live without her. There
was no outlook anywhere, except that solitary

one towards the golden gate of Paradise, and
for the present this seemed blocked by a
mountain of obstacles.

Not many months after her arrival at
Koenigsberg, an important event occurred :
Sibyl's baby was born. Nothing could be
more charming than her manner of announcing
the joyful event to Narva. ' I feel,' she
wrote, ' as if my joy in him would not be
complete until I see my baby in your arms,
dear Narva. Ah ! does the future hold in
reserve for me the delight of holding your
baby in my arms } I believe it does, ma
cherie. I believe that all the sorrow that has
gone before was a preparation for some great
happiness in store for you.'

Narva read the letter many times over.
Did Sibyl guess '^. Or was it her own overflowing
happiness that made her prophetic ?

Life seemed now, indeed, a perfect joy for
Sibyl, and her letters were electric in their
communication of it. The baby was a little
magician whose wand made everything
beautiful. When in due course he 



formed the seemingly unparalleled feat of
lisping his mother's name, the wonder was
that things went on as usual, that the sun
rose and set just as if nothing extraordinary
had happened. Sibyl's great anxiety was
lest Narva should not see him until the glory
of his infant graces had departed, and he
should have passed on to another phase of
intelligence and fascination. But these fears
were suddenly dissipated by a prospect as
unexpected as it was blissful to Narva.

She received a letter from Basil telling her
that he was appointed to the post of Secretary
to the Russian Embassy in Paris, and
was to enter on his new duties in about three
months. Prince Krinsky, the newly named
Ambassador, had asked for him, alleging that
Basil's thorough knowledge of European
languages would make him a valuable
auxiliary, and that he knew no other young
man so suitable for the post.

My father is very pleased,' wrote Basil,
though the appointment will cost him a lot

of money. He has, however, found means
of raising it at once, and has been so generous
that I am able to send you two thousand
roubles, which the bearer of this letter will
hand you in German money. You will go,
immediately on receiving it, to Paris, and
there await my arrival. Sibyl will want you
to go to her ; but I prefer that you should not.
We will make her understand the reason soon.
I am in hopes that things will favour us more
readily than I had dared to expect. Of course
there will be a great row. But the Empress
is really kind, and I count on her support to
bring round my father. That done, we shall
have no more trouble. The Fates seem as
if they were going to be good to us at last.

I have written to Ivan to go and accompany
you to Paris. He will find a nice
lodging for you, and make you feel less lonely
on arriving in the strange place. Sibyl is at
Biarritz, which is just as well, under the circumstances.


^ Alt revoir soon, my own beautiful Narva.

Basil.'

Narva could hardly believe that this
wonderful news was true. Three short
months, and Basil would meet her and make
her his wife ! Gladly would she have started
that same hour for Paris, so eager was she to
obey him, and to find herself in the city where
he appointed to meet her ; but It Is only
people In the story-books who can follow
Instantaneously the dictates of their will,
and put Into execution a plan the moment It
Is formed. Some few arrangements were
necessary before breaking up her little temporary
home, and a week must elapse before
she could possibly leave Koenigsberg.
Meantime, she must write to Sibyl and
announce her intended departure. Her
heart beat with a new delight at the thought
of meeting Sibyl, of the welcome she would
receive from her.

Singing and smiling to herself, Narva sat
down to write. It was only when she took
the pen In her hand that she remembered It
was Impossible for her to give the true reason
of this sudden resolution of going to live

in Paris. And yet it was absolutely necessary
to give some reason. She rested her
chin in her hand, and sat turning the pen in
her fingers, considering what she could say.
It did not much matter what reason she gave,
provided it was a plausible enough one to
satisfy Sibyl for the moment. After long
deliberation, she determined to say that
people who knew assured her that her talent
would find much wider scope and larger
remuneration in Paris, and that she had
finally made up her mind to follow this
indication, which coincided with the longings
of her own heart, and come and live within
reach of her dear Sibyl's companionship.
Narva's conscience pricked her as she wrote
this made-up story ; but the next moment
she laughed at her scruples.

I will tell her the truth soon enough,' she
said to herself, ' and, meantime, I must do
what Basil wishes.'

By return of post she received an answer
from Sibyl. With a pleasant flutter at her
hungry heart, Narva opened the violet-scented

envelope with its delicate gold cipher, all so
suggestive of Sibyl, and read :

Oh, my Narva, what a wonderful surprise
this is ! What a delight it will be to clasp
you to my heart, and gaze into those beautiful
eyes that have been like two fountains of
love and sympathy to me all my life ! And
then the pleasure of seeing my boy in his
aunt Narva's arms, learning to love her and
tyrannize over her ! But, my precious one,
have you sufficiently weighed the risks you
run in leaving your present home for a great
wilderness like Paris ? It is quite true, your
glorious voice and your rare musical genius
would in time secure you both fame and
fortune ; but you must first be known, and it
is very uphill work in this great Paris for a
stranger to become known. I hear and see a
good deal of this kind of struggle, and many
a time when I have been watching the disappointments
and heart-sinking of a young
artist, the thought of you has brought the
tears to my eyes, and I have thanked God that

you were spared the misery of having to
fight the battle of Hfe under such cruel conditions.
For though lessons are no doubt paid
much more highly here than in Koenigsberg,
the necessaries of life also are very much
dearer.

Darling, I feel it is kinder to tell you all
this before you take a step which may lead to
bitter regret. Of course, if you still decide
on coming, I can only rejoice selfishly for my
own sake, seeing you will be like a breeze
of sweet air from Yrakow.

Ever thine own,

Sibyl.'

If Narva had been asked what effect this
letter produced on her, she would have
likened it to a sudden chill. Yet there was
no stint of tender expressions in it from first
to last, and it was perhaps inevitable that
Sibyl, who was the most unpractical of
human beings, should be scared at the idea
of one like Narva coming to try her fortune
in a place like Paris. Sibyl only realized two

manners of existence : her own, gliding
smoothly through broad, flowering meads,
and that of the people, sweating and toiling
to keep her chariot-wheels well oiled ; she
had no practical knowledge of any intervening
states. Narva repeated these reasons
to herself, and tried to take comfort indwelling
on the caressing endearments that
were sprinkled through Sibyl's letter, like
dewdrops over the dry dust of her cold,
repelling arguments.

THE MEETING WITH MARGUERITE.

VAN GORFF arrived punctually
at Koenigsberg, and proved the
kindest and most efficient escort.
He was one of those rare persons whose
entire simplicity and helplessness make you
feel perfectly at ease ; his companionship
imposed no effort ; he exacted nothing ; he
only asked to be made use of. Narva, who
had never cared much for him, suspecting
rightly that he cared too much for her, had
grown quite fond of him by the end of the
tete-astute journey. It was like having a
strong, sagacious dog always by her side,
on the qid vive to do her bidding, never

expecting thanks, but radiantly happy when
she threw him a bone in the shape of an
affectionate smile, or a kind word. He never
alluded to her relationship to Basil, but it
was borne in upon her that he was aware
of it.

On arriving in Paris, he found her very
pretty lodgings in the Rue Chaillot, with
a salon that overlooked gardens, and beyond
them the river. Ivan thought them expensive,
but he made no observations ; that washer
affair.

Narva was soon at home in her new abode.
She had that gift peculiar to some women of
making beautiful any place where she dwelt.
Her rooms were very simply furnished, but
her grand Pleyel piano, covered with its
Turkish cloth, a rich piece of Muscovite
embroidery in gold and silver and many-coloured
silks, gave an air of splendour to
the salon ; flowers and plants set on every
available spot lent it an aspect of refinement,
and books spread about on the tables suggested
that intellectual interest which was

never absent where Narva was. She took
pains to make the rooms attractive. Basil
was to meet her here, and as the frame sets
off the picture, so would she borrow some
additional charm from the help of harmonious
surroundings.

Sibyl had not said a word to her of his
nomination to the Russian Embassy.

She means to let it come on me as a great
surprise,' thought Narva, with a pleasant consciousness
of being herself much deeper in
Basil's secret.

Sibyl's absence from town at this juncture
was rather a relief; but Narva was impatient
to see Marguerite, and her first expedition
was to the Rue du Bac. She learned, to
her disappointment, that Soeur Marguerite
had been sent to Havre a month ago, and it
was quite uncertain when she would return.

Narva found herself, consequently, as much
alone in Paris as if she had strayed into the
Sahara ; for Ivan Gorff, as soon as he had
done everything that was within his power
for her, went back to Russia.

The weather was intensely cold ; the winter
was an exceptionally severe one ; and Narva
now understood Sibyl's apparently incredible
assertion that in Paris the cold was more
cruel than in Russia. In Russia you were
protected against it by thick walls, and fires
that were like furnaces ; but here In Paris
the wind that blew with a shrill blast from
the north pierced the thin walls, too porous
to keep It out, and whistled through chinks
in the doors and windows, until it seemed to
blow as hard Indoors as out. Narva, who
had not yet found out what a costly luxury a
good fire was in Paris, piled on the logs in
her three rooms unsparingly. She spent her
time between singing and reading and dreaming,
and fought against the cold with a blazing
hearth.

So one month sped away. She was at the
piano one morning, singing a Russian ballad,
when the door of the salon opened, then
closed. Narva took no notice, thinking it
was Eudoxie, her bonne with the newspaper;
but when she finished her song, some one

cried, ' Brava ! brava !' and, before she had
time to turn round, two arms were hugging
her backward, and a face under a stiff white
headgear was pressed against hers.

Marguerite !' Narva stood up, and returned
the caress with genuine deceit.

These two had often wondered how it
would be when they met : whether the
memory of those last days at Yrakow, so
pregnant with events which had influenced
the destinies of both, would come between
them like a presence. And now they met,
and Marguerite was looking up into Narva's
face with eyes full of wistful tenderness and
unabashed simplicity, and the innocent gladness
of a child. But, with that intuition
which sometimes belongs to children, she
saw that the memory of those days had
rushed upon Narva with a kind of poignant
consciousness.

Do you know,' she said, still looking
up with her bright brown eyes, ' I feel as
if we were a pair of ghosts meeting in the
other world !'

We are in another world than the one we
parted In,' replied Narva ; ' I believe we
both of us died a death at Yrakow/

But we came to life again, didn't we ?'
asked Marguerite eagerly.

I suppose we must have,' replied Narva ;
though you don't look a bit like a person
who had ever been dead and buried.'

They sat down near the fire ; Narva
threw on a fresh block, and made a hospitable
blaze.

How pretty your room is, and what a
splendid view of the sky you have !' said
Marguerite, glancing toward the windows,
and round at the flowers and the homelike
touches visible everywhere. Then, with a
sudden change from gay to grave, * Oh,
dear Narva,' she exclaimed, * what you
have suffered since we met ! Many a time
I have wondered how you lived through
it.'

Yes, it Is wonderful what we can live
through, some of us. I must be very hard
to kill, I suppose.'

That time in the prison ! . . . The very
thought of it turned Hfe into a horrible dream.
I used to go about my work as if I were in a
nightmare. Dear, I do believe that I prayed
for you with every breath I drew all those
dreadful months !'

Narva's features contracted with pain ; she
opened her lips as if to speak, but they quivered
and closed again.

After wrestling for a moment with herself
:

Perhaps it was those prayers that kept me
from going mad,' she said in a low voice,
for it ]was like being in hell. I never look
back at it. If I did, even now it would send
me out of my mind.' Then, seeing her own
shuddering horror reflected in Marguerite's
face : ' Let us not talk about it,' she said.
Tell me about yourself You look much
stronger than you ever did at Yrakow, and
you look so happy !'

I am so happy !'

Are you, dear ? Well, I suppose the
martyrs on the rack would have said they

VOL. I. 1 6

were very happy, if the pagans had questioned
them.'

Marguerite laughed.

I can't tell what the martyrs would have
said, not being one myself, any more than
you are a pagan. I only know that I am as
happy as the day is long.'

And you regret nothing .^'

Nothing on this earth !'

She opened out her hands, palms upward,
with an emphatic gesture.

Yet the life you are leading is that of
a common servant!' Narva said, in a tone
of incredulity. ' Sibyl told me the Sisters
themselves described the hardships as dreadful.'


They exaggerated the hardships — they
always do ; what they never exaggerate is
the happiness. I don't believe anyone in
this world could be happier than I am. I
would not exchange my lot with the most
envied one on earth.'

Thank God !' Narva murmured, almost
involuntarily.

There was a moment of sudden consciousness
to both, and then, by a common
impulse, the two women bent forward and
kissed each other.

It is wonderful to hear you say that,
Marguerite Narva said, as if this tacit understanding
had set her free to enter frankly on
the subject. ' How can you like being a
peasant, and carrying burdens on your shoulders
all day ?'

I love the burdens ; and love, you know,
makes everything light and easy.'

Your old theory ! But for all the love in
the world there are things that you must miss :
music that you were so fond of, and flowers
that you so delighted in 1 How you used to
revel in the winter garden at Yrakow !'

Yes ; but I don't miss anything. I am
quite satisfied with the music in church on
Sundays, and the canticles the children sing
in the school; and I'm not sure that a
hospital ward or a sick-room is not as good
as a garden to me.'

Narva held up her hands.

1 6 — 2

It all sounds so unnatural !'

So it would be if it were not my vocation.
That is what makes it natural and delightful.'

I could understand it in a measure if all
this discomfort and sacrifice on your side
lessened the misery of the world,' said
Narva ; ' but it doesn't ; it never will ; the
cruelty of life will remain just as universal for
all your sacrifice. You will never do away
with suffering.'

God forbid ! What would become of the
world if suffering were done away with ?
There would be an end of heroism, of so
much that makes life beautiful. Suffering
is the salt that keeps human nature from
corrupting. Besides, salt or not, it is the
law, and there is no escape from it. But
it is not the suffering itself that is so bad ;
it is the revolt against it. All the world
is in rebellion against suffering, just as
science is against pain. And it is a
vicious circle from which there is no
escaping : the more science rebels against
physical pain, the more moral pain increases.

If people did not rebel so fiercely
against it, pain would lose half its sting.
Don't you think, now, for instance, that it
would be much better to bear the natural
pain of disease, and be content with the
legitimate means of relief, than to escape
from it by drugs that destroy consciousness,
and end by destroying the moral strength, so
that human beings are reduced to the state of
animals, without nerve or reason to bear up
under their suffering ?'

You would have us all turn stoics, and,
like that Spartan, stand and grin while the
fox eats into our vitals ?'

I would have us bear our pain like
Christians, instead of running away from it
like cowards.'

You are behind your age, dear Marguerite,'
said Narva, with a smile ; ' the
triumph of science is to abolish pain.'

The triumph of charity is to alleviate it ;
and it is better to alleviate it with love and
help than to drug it with morphine.'

That sounds admirable as a theory,' said

Narva, with a touch of the old scorn, ' but
it is a fallacy ; it is like your dream of
reforming the world by love. You must first
call in hate ; hate must clear the ground
before love can build. Society, as it exists,
is an organized system of murder of the
majority by an omnipotent minority. That
old machinery must be smashed and swept
away before love can come in and raise a new
order of things.'

Hate would be a dreadful foundation to
build on said Marguerite. * Hate is suicidal;
it destroys itself and everything else. It would
be like building on a volcano. Oh, Narva, I
will convert you into believing in love !' she
exclaimed vehemently ; and she laid her hand,
once so dainty, now coarsened by work, on
Narva's arm, and gave her an angry shake.
What ails you that you can't believe in
love ?'

I wish I could ; but one can't become a
child again. To ask me to believe in love as
the factor that governs the world is like
asking me to believe in the fairies.'

How strange !' Marguerite murmured.
Not to believe in love is like not believing
in God : for God is love.'

^ Your God, perhaps.'

Oh, Narva ! . . . Then tell me, if God
gave you happiness — that is, everything you
desire — would that make you believe in
Him, in His goodness ?'

I suppose it would help me. Everybody
is a better Christian for being made happy.'

Marguerite threw up her hands, and burst
out laughing.

What theology ! Did you ever read of a
saint who was sanctified by having everything
his own way ? For that is what you
understand by happiness .'^ Oh, Narva, what
a dreadful doctrine ! Why, surely you know
as well as I do that suffering is the road to
God; that the more we suffer, the greater
our likeness to our Lord Himselfe'

In that case I am as like to Him as any
saint ever canonized !' said Narva, with a
ring of passion in her voice ; * for I have
suffered as much as any saint you pray to.

But it hasn't sanctified me ; not that I know
of, unless, perchance, it be part of divine
justice to make suffering meritorious, without
consent or merit in the sufferer.'

Marguerite was silent a moment.

I'm not sure, but it may be so she said
musingly. ' I sometimes think that the mere
condition of suffering has a saving power of
its own.'

She remembered Narva's father and brother
cruelly murdered, her mother's heart broken,
and then that dungeon that was ' like being
in hell.' She could not argue with wounds
like these. Neither, perhaps, would God. A
great poet says, ' Aimer, c'est la moitie de
croire.' It would have been nearer the truth
if he had said, ' Souffrir, c'est la moitie de
croire.'

Are there no pleasures at all in your life T
Narva asked irrelevantly.

No pleasures ? Why, everything is a
pleasure ! It was an intense pleasure just now
to see a sick child gobble up a pudding I had
made for it. I committed gluttony by proxy

looking at it. I must tell you,' she said confidentially,
and assuming an air of innocent
self-importance, ' I have developed quite a
genius for cooking. My puddings and
Hsanes are in great request, and I have
assented a poultice that is the delight of all
our rheumatic old women.'

Narva was amused, and in her secret soul
a little disgusted. She could sympathize, at
least Intellectually, with the sublime ambition
that aimed at revolutionizing the world by
love, but she could not enter into the glory
of making slops and poultices. It was disenchanting
to see Marguerite's grand vocation
degenerate into such performances, to
see her gifts and graces lowered to such
vulgar service.

You are not a bit changed. Marguerite,'
she said, observing her curiously ; * always
the same funny mixture of the natural and
the supernatural. You supernaturally everything
without growing the least supernatural
yourself.'

Indeed, I should hope not !' Marguerite

laughed merrily. ' I should frighten the wits
out of my poor people if I turned supernatural.
But you must come to see me. I
want to show you to Soeur Jeanne, our Soeur
Superieure, and to let you see the schools
and everything. You will come, won't you ?'

Of course I will, dear,' said Narva,
amused at her earnestness.

I have heard nothing about your plan
of life, dear Narva, or what you are busy
with ?'

I have been busy doing nothing, so far
said Narva, a little embarrassed how to
explain her life of idleness and apparent
ease ; ' I feel as if I were lying half asleep
in a boat that had drifted into port after a
storm.'

Let yourself drift ; when you resume
work, you will be all the better for having
taken a rest. Of course you must wait,
anyhow, till Sibyl finds pupils for you ?'

I don't see how I am to find them by
myself,' Narva answered evasively.

She would have gladly spoken out, and

told everything, for there was that in Marguerite
which invited confidence and inspired
absolute trust ; and at this juncture her
sympathy would have been delicious. But
Narva remembered Basil's desire for secrecy
yet a little while, and was silent.

Basil's name had not been mentioned, nor
Father Christopher's. Many things had not
been mentioned that both longed to speak of ;
but they kissed and parted, content to leave
unspoken things that were unspeakable.

THE MEETING WITH SIBYL.

N the middle of January, Sibyl returned
to town. She sent to
Narva the day after her arrival,
asking her to come that afternoon and see
her.

Narva's heart beat fast as she crossed the
court of the Hotel de Beaucrillon, while the
bell clanged loudly to announce her visit. A
glow of hospitable warmth embraced her in
the hall ; palms and flowering plants spread
a fragrance around that completed the illusion
of a summer climate in midwinter, and her
step fell softly on the thick pile of the scarlet
carpet as she ascended the wide staircase,

where ancestors of the de Beaucrlllons looked
down on her on either side In armour and
hoops and wigs. One glance from the
threshold showed her the whole aspect of the
boudoir, whose folding-doors stood open : the
pale blue velvet hangings, the Aubusson
carpet, the crystal bowls and vases filled with
flowers, and amidst these luxurious surroundings
Sibyl reclining on a couch.

With a scream of delight. Sibyl jumped up
and flew with outstretched arms to embrace
her friend. She clasped her, and kissed her
again and again with every expression of
endearment. The excitement of the meeting,
the joy of being thus welcomed by
Sibyl, by Basil's sister, had flushed Narva,
and the pink glow, delicate as a sea-shell,
gave a peculiar brilliancy to her blue-black
eyes, now liquid with tender emotion.

My Narva !' Sibyl exclaimed in fond
delight ; and, laying her hands on Narva's
shoulders, she put her gently from her to
get a better view of her; 'you are positively
more beautiful than ever ! And, oh,

darling, after all you have gone through, I
dreaded to find your beauty quite destroyed !'

Narva grew suddenly pale, and a tremor
of the lips warned Sibyl that she must
not touch that wound.

And your baby ?' Narva said, looking
round as if she expected to find the little
creature somewhere amongst the flowers.

Sibyl struck a gong, and in a minute there
entered a large, blooming Bourguignonne
with a marvellous headgear, carrying a
bundle of white muslin and pink ribbons.
Sibyl seized the bundle, and with a pretty
gesture of bestowal, placed it in Narva's
arms. It was a delicious baby, just now
moist and scarlet from its sleep, but not a bit
cross ; it crowed and gurgled to Narva, and
let itself be cuddled and kissed without
struggling away, as is the habit of babies.
Narva was satisfactorily enthusiastic over the
paragon, and Sibyl was radiant. But the
baby, having played its part, intimated a
wish to retire, and had to be carried away.
Then M. de Beaucrillon was inquired for.

and Sibyl's health discussed, and every
obvious question asked and answered, and
the two friends found themselves face to
face, conscious as people are who are full of
feelings they must not betray, and of thoughts
they must not put into words.

Dear Narka/ Sibyl began, throwing back
her lace sleeves, and clasping her hands, ' I
have a wonderful piece of news to tell you ;
it is about Basil.'

Ah !' said Narva, and she blushed.

'Oh, good news,' Sibyl added quickly;
he is coming to Paris, and — he is going to
be married !'

Narva said ' Ah !' again, accompanied by
a pantomime of surprise.

Yes. Poor Basil ! after all the worry he
has gone through, he is going to be happy at
last. You remember Marie Krinsky, who
used to take dancing lessons with us at St.
Petersburg ? She was four years younger
than either of us, so we did not much notice
her ; she is now nearly eighteen, a dear little
thing, pretty, accomplished, and her fortune

is enormous. This is a great blessing, for,
with all the drains he has on himself, my
father can't do much during his life for
Basil

And they are engaged ?' said Narva,
speaking calmly.

Not yet officially ; but he made his court
at St. Petersburg, and my father spoke to
Prince Krinsky, who was delighted, and
immediately asked that Basil might be appointed
secretary to the Embassy here. The
Empress was very unwilling to part with
him ; but when she heard of the marriage
she at once consented, and was most kind.
As to the Emperor, he could not have been
kinder if Basil had been a member of the
imperial family. I am so happy I can hardly
believe it is all real.'

A valet brought in the tea-tray, and Sibyl,
voluble and excited, sat down before it, and
busied herself with the pretty preliminaries
for dispensing the fragrant hospitalities of a
Lilliputian silver pot.

I have been ruminating a little plan in my

head ever since I heard this great news —
that is three days ago,' she went on, popping
the sugar into the cups; 'the i6th wall be
Marie's birthday, and I want to make a fete
that day to introduce her as \{\s, fiancee to our
friends. I wonder what would be best : a
ball, or a soiree musicale ? What do you
think ?'

I am a poor judge of such things, dear
Sibyl,' replied Narva.

The tone, more than the words, reminded
Sibyl what a mocking sound any merrymaking
must have in Narva's ears ; Narva,
who had passed through such horrors only
a little while ago, and who was still in
mourning for her mother. She laid down
the tiny teapot, and went over and put
her arms round the girl's neck, and kissed
her.

Forgive me, my sweet one ; I ought to
have remembered,' she said softly.

Narva silently returned her caress. They
sipped their tea, and soon Sibyl went back
to the subject of Basil's marriage. This, at

VOL. I. 17

least, must be interesting to Narva, and
would not jar upon her.

Marie is delightfully in love she said.
It is very pretty to see how unconsciously
she betrays herself. I went to the Embassy
this morning, and the moment I appeared
she blushed up like a red rose, and every
time I mentioned Basil's name she grew
scarlet. I only hope Basil is thoroughly in
love with her.'

Narva had gone through many ordeals,
had been trained to stand and smile while the
fox ate into her flesh, but it seemed to her
that her powers of self-command had never
before been put to so severe a test. She did
not believe a word of this engagement ; of
course not. It was very likely a scheme
arranged by the Prince, and Basil might have
played a consenting part in order to deceive
him and escape ; it was quite impossible
there could be anything more in the story.
Still, the very idea of such a scheme being
on foot against her happiness was enough to
make her tremble. There were tremendous

forces in league against Basil, and things
that were impossible sometimes happened ;
treachery might accomplish what open opposition
failed to do. She could not shut her
eyes to the fact that Marie Krinsky might bea
formidable rival, young and pretty as she
was, as well as high - born, wealthy, and
passionately in love with Basil. Horrible
possibilities flashed through Narva's mind as
she sat choking down the jealous terrors that
made her feel by turns savage and sick,
while Sibyl dilated complacently on the joys
in store for Basil with another woman. She
did her utmost to appear interested, but she
only succeeded in appearing indifferent ; the
part of a responsive" listener was beyond her ;
she played it badly. Sibyl saw that a barrier
of some sort had risen between them ; there
was something the matter with Narva ; there
was none of the sisterly abandon nor the
exuberant delight at their reunion that
she had looked forward to. Was it that
Narva was hurt to find her so elated
about Basil's new happiness, instead of

17 — 2

being entirely occupied with the pleasure of
meeting her ? This was a little unreasonable ;
but perhaps it was natural. With the tact
that she excelled in, Sibyl glided gently from
Basil and Marie Krinsky to various other
points of interest in her own life, and then, as
if thankful to dismiss these subjects and
enter on the one that was most in her
thoughts, * And now, dearest,' she said,
taking Narva's hand on her knee and
clasping it, ' I have told you all there is
to tell about myself, and I want to hear about
you.'

She put a series of questions to Narva
about her health, her experience at Koenigs-
berg, her success there, her pupils, her singing,
her present arrangements ; and Narva
answered them all as she could. When
Sibyl heard the rent she was paying, she
said ' Oh !' and bit her lip, and held it
bitten, as if arrested and surprised beyond
power of further speech.

I thought it dear,' Narva remarked,

feeling very hypocritical ; * but I could not
stay at the hotel. It was altogether too dear.
Everything is very dear.'

I warned you of that, cherie,' Sibyl said,
letting go her underlip.

Oh yes, you warned me ; if I come
to grief, I have no one to blame but myself.'


There was certainly something wrong with
Narva. Sibyl felt it a relief when M. de
Beaucrillon came in and cut short the tHe-tete.


M. de Beaucrillon had not liked Narva at
Yrakow ; but he met her now with the most
cordial warmth. There was more than
courtesy, there was genuine kindliness, in
the way he raised her hand to his lips, and
held it in his firm grasp while he bade her
welcome to his home.

I called on you an hour ago, hoping to
carry you back with me,' he said ; * but you
had just gone out.'

Narva felt her self-respect raised by the

deferential kindness of this knightly gentleman.
He called her Narva, which he had
never done before.

He will be a friend to me,' she thought,
remembering how soon she might have to
put his friendship to the test.

SIBYL REOPENS HER SALONS.

ARK A was very miserable after
this first meeting with Sibyl, that
she had looked forward to so
longingly. She would not confess to herself
that she attached any importance to that
story of Basil's engagement ; still it haunted
her, and poisoned her peace of mind. She
could not sleep. In the middle of the night
she got up and struck a light, and by way of
calming herself, read over Basil's letters.
They were few, and they were generally
short, and always guarded in expression ;
cold love-letters, most lovers would have
called them ; but to Narva they were all-sufficing

; they were written as a man whispers
when the enemy is at the door, Hastening to
catch every word he says. This, she knew,
was why he had not written now to tell her
of his immediate arrival. Still, he might
have contrived to make her a sign somehow.
. . Then, again, she remembered how
necessary caution was at such a crisis, how
fearful he must be of exciting suspicion.
She took out her ring, and the sight of it
seemed to rebuke and reassure her. She
kissed it, and blew out her candle and went
back to bed.

I am like that woman she said to herself,
who declared she did not believe in ghosts,
but that she was mortally afraid of them.'

Two days elapsed. Narva was at her
piano when the door opened and let in a
sudden puff of violets. The violets announced
Sibyl before she had time to announce
herself by a joyous exclamation.

He will be here on the 15th ! In seven
days ! Can you believe it ? Can you believe
it }'

She kissed Narva, and sank down on the
sofa and pulled off her gloves. The first thing
Sibyl did when she wanted to talk was to
pull off her gloves ; those nervous, dimpled,
bejewelled little hands played a great part in
her discourse ; they had a language of their
own, without whose help much of her speech
would have been incomplete.

Narva, put on your bonnet and come off
with me. I can't enjoy my happiness fully
unless I have you to share it. Gaston is an
angel ; but he is a man ; he can't understand.
No one but you can sympathize with
me, and feel what it will be to me to have
Basil free, and married, and safe out of mischief
! I have been to the Krinskys'. Marie
is radiant. But we have no time to lose to
get ready the soiree for the i6th. It falls
on a Wednesday, which is unlucky, as that is
my day. It will be a bore if he comes in the
afternoon. But he will most likely arrive by
the evening train. You know the i6th is
Marie's birthday ? I am going to Worth's
to order my dress. Put on your things and

come with me. It will amuse you, dearest.
Come !'

Narva did as she was told : fate seemed
to be making sport of her, making her play
comedy in spite of herself. She was in no
mood to be amused, and yet Sibyl was right,
the ordering of the dress did amuse her. It
amused her to see the mobility with which
her companion sprang away from Basil, and
became absorbed in the question of toilette.
It amused her to see the devout attention
which the man-dressmaker bestowed on the
matter. The consultation lasted half an
hour, and was conducted on both sides with
the gravity befitting the importance of the
subject.

Madame la Comtesse may rest satisfied ;
her dress will be the event of the season,'
Worth remarked, with quiet assurance, as he
flung aside the costly stuffs he had been
coiling and looping to illustrate his idea.

Sibyl was flushed, but cheerful and confident.


And now, dearest,' she said, in Russian,

to Narva, ' you must order a dress ;' and
without divino her time to answer she turned
to Worth : ' Mademoiselle is in mourning, as
you see, but she wants you to make her a
white dress that can be worn at a soirée de
contracts

The potentate of fashion fixed his eyes on
Narva, as if to take in the characteristics of
line and colour that were to guide him. He
called for white tissues, and proceeded to roll
out velvets and gauzes round Narva as If she
had been a statue. He then made notes and
lines on his carnet, and handing it to her, ' I
think, mademoiselle, something in this style
will suit you ?' he said.

Narva uttered an exclamation of surprise :
It might have been taken from the garment
she had Invented for herself at
Yrakow.

It would require a little relief,' observed
Worth ; ' a gold buckle here on the tunic,
and a clasp on the shoulder fastening the
long sleeves. Would that be too great a
concession to ask ?'

Not the least,' interposed Sibyl. ' Your
Russian gold ornaments will suit beautifully,'
she said, turning to Narva. ' You must
bring them when you come to try on the
dress.'

When they got out on the stairs, Narva
said :

How foolish of you, Sibyl ! My white
cashmere would have done perfectly. This
is only a second edition of it, and will cost a
hundred times more.'

'If Worth could hear you !' Sibyl's laugh
rang out on the staircase. ' Nonsense ! I
want you to look your best. You are going
to sing. I have decided for a concert instead
of a ball, and it was chiefly on your account.
I want you to shine out as a star to all my
friends. Marie is going to sing with our
cousin, Henri de Beaucrillon, and I shall
have several good artists, but you will outshine
them all. Mind, you are to be in
splendid voice !*

They drove about giving orders at the
shops for some hours. Narva had to go

back with Sibyl and spend the evening.
After dinner she had to sing. Sibyl declared
her voice was finer than ever ; but M. de
Beaucrillon remembered how that love-song
at Yrakow had melted the heart in his breast,
and he felt that, though the instrument was
still beautiful, the passionate soul which
had inspired it that night was absent, or
silent.

Every day for the next six days Narva
was at the Rue St. Dominique almost from
morning till night. There was no escaping
from Sibyl.

I can't do without you, dearest,' she
repeated ; '■ I want your sympathy and your
calm strength to support me through this
nervous time.'

Madame de Beaucrillon's house was the
apex of the world in which she moved ; the
domestic events which had closed it for a
time had been bewailed as social calamities,
and the announcement that it was going to
be opened on so brilliant an occasion was
received with general satisfaction. Sibyl

wanted Narva to take the management of
the musical programme ; but Narva refused ;
she knew it would bring her into immediate,
perhaps intimate, contact with Princess Marie,
and there were limits to what she could bear.
She was in constant terror of meeting Marie
at the Rue St. Dominique ; but fortune
spared her that trial, although Sibyl had
made more than one appointment to introduce
them. She was presented to a number
of other ladies, who assured her they were
'ravished to make her acquaintance.' It
would have been pleasant enough to be
welcomed by these high-bred Frenchwomen
if Narva had not felt that she was under
false appearances. Would they have been
ravished to make her acquaintance, she asked
herself, had they known she was going to
carry off the prize so many of them were
coveting for a daughter, or a sister 1

Since that letter from the Prince, announcing
Basil's arrival for the 15th, there
had been no news from St. Petersburg.
Narva would not own to herself that this

silence made her uneasy, that she was
frightened, in fact. But she was.

On Tuesday afternoon — the day before
Basil was to arrive — she was with Sibyl,
when the servant brought in a telegram.
It was from the Prince :

Expect Basil Wednesdays

How delightful !' exclaimed Sibyl. * He
will come to find us all e7t fete to welcome
him ! If only my father had said " morning "
or '* evening " ! It will be tiresome if he
arrives in the evening, just as the people are
flocking in. Dear me, how dreadful this
uncertainty is !'

She moved about, and sat down, and got
up again, and was fluttered and ecstatic and
alarmed and impatient all in a minute.

M. de Beaucrillon thrust his hands into
his pockets, and leaned against the mantelpiece,
and gazed with serio-comic gravity at
his wife.

How you Russians do dramatize every
crisis in life !' he said, putting his head to

one side with a movement that resembled
Marguerite, and he turned to Narva.
The expression of her face startled him ;
there was no dramatizing there — there was
poignant emotion that she was straining
every nerve to keep under control. What
need was there for this fierce effort at self-restraint
?

There is always something about that girl
that I cannot understand,' M. de Beaucrillon
said within himself ; and he looked away.

At Sibyl's request he took up the railway
guide, and made it evident to her that Basil
must come by a morning train, so that the
excitement of the soiree would not be made
too overpowering by the emotion of receiving
him in the midst of five hundred
guests. Sibyl wanted Narva to come and
sleep at her house on the eve of the concert ;
but Narva had a series of reasons — all foolish
ones, Sibyl thought — to prove that this would
be a most inconvenient arrangement for her.
In her secret soul she was convinced that
Basil would arrive by the early train, and

come straight to her before going to Sibyl.
The idea of meeting him in Sibyl's presence
was too dreadful to be contemplated. She
could never go through the ordeal without
betraying herself. And yet, after all, she
reflected, did it matter so very much ? A
few days, a few hours, probably, sooner or
later, and the crisis must come.

And when it came, how would Sibyl meet
it ? This question kept perpetually recurring
to Narva, and filled her with an
anguish of uncertainty which even the joy
of meeting Basil could not banish from her
mind.

Wednesday morning dawned, and found
her watching. She had been too excited to
sleep. She rose feverish and unrefreshed,
and spent the morning coming and going
from the window. Every cab that drove up
the street made her heart leap. But the
early hours went by ; noon came : no Basil,
and no news from Sibyl.

He will come by the evening train, and I
shall have to meet him before Sibyl !' she

VOL. I. 18

thought. And then a terror seized upon her,
and she resolved not to go. But this panic
did not last. It was quickly followed by a
feeling of defiance, and a longing to let Sibyl
and all the world know that she was Basil's
france, and ready to brave the whole world
rather than give him up.

The day dragged heavily on till evening,
and then it was time to dress. Narva coiled
up her shining gold hair, and robed herself in
the wonderful white draperies that Worth had
combined out of soft and costly materials, and
then clasped on her golden necklace and
bracelets, and waited for the carriage to come
for her.

As she beheld herself reflected in the long
mirror of the wardrobe, her heart exulted,
not from any sense of vulgar vanity — she
was too proud and too chastened by sorrow
for so mean a vice as vanity — but she rejoiced
in her beauty for Basil's sake. * He
will be glad to see me looking well amongst
other women,' she said to herself, with a
soft thrill of happiness ; and the flush of

love and conscious power made her cheek
glow.

When she reached the Rue St. Dominique,
M. de Beaucrillon had gone to meet Basil.
Sibyl was dressed, and watching impatiently
for the return of the brougham. Narva,
though outwardly calm, was trembling with
excitement.

You will be the Queen of Beauty to-night
as well as the Queen of Song, my Narva !'
Sibyl exclaimed, in frank admiration, when
she beheld her. ' How pleased Basil will be
to find you looking so well ! Come, and let
us see how the rooms look lighted. It will
help to pass the time while we are waiting.
Stop ! there is a carriage driving in.' She
flew out to the landing, and called out,
Sont-ce ces messieurs ?'

The groom of the chambers answered
from the hall :

M. le Comte has returned alone, Madame
la Comtesse.'

Presently M. de Beaucrillon appeared,
walking leisurely up the stairs.

18—2

What can it mean ?' Sibyl asked, fluttered
and vexed.

I don't suppose It is the first time Basil
has been unpunctual to an appointment her
husband said, in his solemn way ; ' the
singular thing would be if he were to keep
one

He must have missed the train somewhere
said Sibyl, ' unless he was taken suddenly ill ;
but then he would have telegraphed.'

He is not ill, ma chere amie ; I \\ ill answer
for that ; and he is simply your brother : the
best fellow in holy Russia, but born without
the faculty of keeping an appointment.
Where is Narva ?'

Narva, whose heart had begun to palpitate
violently at the prospect of seeing Basil
appear in a moment, had stood clutching the
back of a chair until she heard Sibyl's exclamation
of disappointment, and then, regaining
her self-possession, she walked quietly on
towards the landing. The effect she produced
on M. de Beaucrlllon was so great
that she could not pretend not to see it. He

Started, and for a second looked at her, positively
dazzled. For the first time in her
young life Narva realized that she possessed
a sovereignty to which men were ready to
bow down. By the time she had given him
her hand, and he had raised it to his lips, as
was his graceful habit with her, Sibyl had
joined them ; she was so agitated and full of
her disappointment as to dispel the momentary
bashfulness that Narva had felt under
M. de Beaucrillon's unspoken admiration.
There were a few moments of excited talk,
Sibyl asking and answering a score of questions
in one breath, and then the carriages
rolled in quickly one upon another, and
guests arrived in rapid succession.

Sibyl stood to receive them at the head
of the stairs. Narva escaped to the music-room,
but Sibyl missed her in a minute, and
sent M. de Beaucrillon to bring her back.
He soon captured her, for the crowd was not
et large enough to give her shelter.

I have orders to take you, dead or alive,'
he said, drawing her arm through his, and

marching her back to Sibyl. ' Must I hold
you bodily in durance, or will you be my
prisoner on parole ?'

I give my parole,' she said.

He bowed and released her.

The gay and brilliant crowd kept streaming
in, and soon the spacious suite of salons
was filled. At eleven o'clock the concert
began. It opened with a fine orchestral
performance ; then Marie Krinsky sang her
duet. This was followed by several other
pieces, vocal and instrumental, and then it
was Narva's turn. The suspense of the day,
culminating in the disappointment at the end
of it, had so excited and exhausted her that
she felt incapable of singing a note ; her
tongue was parched, her throat felt as if
it were paralyzed. When M. de Beau-crimson
went up and offered her his arm, she
did not move, but looked up at him entreatingly.


I cant sing !' she said.

It seemed cruel to insist, but he felt sure
that she could.

Sibyl will be terribly disappointed,' he
said, after a moment's hesitation.

Narva stood up. The movement, the
sudden resolution, seemed to say, ' Then I
will do it or die !'

She took his arm, and walked to the centre
of the platform. Her cheeks were delicately
flushed ; her great lustrous eyes had a flame
in them ; her coral lips, clear cut as a cameo
against the ivory skin, were parted tremulously,
while an air of incomparable dignity
and modesty heightened the effect of her
rare loveliness. There was a profound hush
through the crowded rooms ; the orchestra
played the opening accompaniment, and
Narva lifted up her voice, and sang.

M. de Beaucrillon was right. She could
sing. A few notes assured her that she
had command of her instrument, and then
her voice poured out like a crystal stream,
rising and swelling and trilling with as little
effort as a bird's. The audience were quite
carried away, and when the song was over
they burst into a salvo of rapturous applause.

Sibyl drifted with her serpentine grace
across the platform and kissed Narva, and
the other ladies, following this example,
gathered about her, kissing and congratulating.
All around her, people were exclaiming,
' What genius !' ' How beautiful
she is !' The gentlemen were clamouring
for the honour of being presented.

It was one of those moments that brinor
with them a kind of intoxication to the
calmest and wisest. Yet there was something
timid in the glance of Narva's large
dark eyes that seemed to deprecate all this
homage and admiration. If only Basil had
been there to enjoy it and to justify it!
Without him, she felt the triumph was not
wholly hers ; she was receiving it under
false pretences.

M. de Beaucrillon was charming.

Je suis tres here de ma belle-soeur he
said, presenting her to a venerable duchess
whose smile was social distinction in the
great world.

Even in Basil's absence it was something

to have been thus welcomed by the friends
to whom he would soon present her as his
wife.

As she drove home, Narva was conscious
that it had been a brilliant evening ;
Sibyl had been perfect ; everybody had
welcomed and admired her ; and she was
Basil's affianced wife.

THE WOMAN WHOM BASIL LOVED.

WO days went by, and there was
no news from Basil. On the
morning of the third day the
brougham came from the Hotel de Beau-crimson
with a message requesting Narva to
come at once. Narva obeyed the summons,
full of anxiety as to its meaning. She found
Sibyl walking up and down the library in a
state of violent though suppressed excitement.


There ! read that,' she said, drawing a
letter from her pocket, and holding it out to
Narva, without arresting her walk.

Narva, sick with suspense, sat down and

read the letter. It was from Prince Zorokoff.
He had discovered on the very eve of Basil's
departure that the boy had entangled himself
in some promise of marriage to a woman of
low condition, and that this had been at the
bottom of his desire to get out of Russia.

He tried to deny it at first,' wrote the
Prince, ' but I put the holy image before
him, and bade him swear the story was a lie.
He did not dare do it, and he ended by
declaring that it was true, and that he would

never marry Marie K , or any other

woman but the one he loved. I said if he
married her, I would curse him. I gave him
three months to come to his senses and his
duty. If that does not do, I will have him
circumscribed under surveillance of the police
at Kronstadt. The sight of the fortress will
have a sobering effect.'

Narva stifled a cry, and let the letter fall
on her lap.

Well,' said Sibyl, coming up and standing
before her, ' what do you say to this ? The
infatuated boy ! It must be some woman

he met in Italy. And with a foreign woman
we are powerless ! She can't be a Russian,
or my father would have said so. If she
were Russian, it would be easy to deal with
her. A threat of the knout would soon
bring her on her knees !'

She shut her right hand with a quick inward
movement that was too expressive to
be mistaken : those soft, dimpled hands were
itching for the knout to scourge the woman
who had come between Basil and the pride
of the Zorokoffs. Sibyl was horrible to look
at ; her white teeth showed between her
parted lips ; her words came hissing ; her
blue eyes glittered — they never flashed when
she was excited, they glittered — her features
were convulsed, her whole frame shaken with
passion. Narva covered her face with her
hands to shut out the sight.

Oh, Sibyl !' she murmured.

^ Yes, it is too loathsome to contemplate !*
cried Sibyl, misunderstanding the gesture
and the exclamation. ' Could you have
believed Basil such a weak fool .^ If we

even knew who and where this creature is,
we might buy her off. That is our only chance,
as she is a foreigner. We must buy her off.

But if she loves Basil ' Narva ventured,
hesitating.

Love him ! A creature like that ! Allons
done !'

Sibyl gave a laugh that sounded devilish.
She looked like an incarnate devil, or some
avenging pythoness, with her glittering eyes,
and her small head reared, the blue sheen of
her satin dressing-gown shimmering in snakelike
folds round her tall figure.

Narva could not believe her senses. Was
this the Sibyl she had loved all her life and
worshipped as the type of all that was good
and lovable } — the Sibyl who was so tender
to suffering, so generous to her peasants, so
indulgent to their vices, so ready to forgive
their lies and , thefts and wrong-doings ?
What evil spirit had entered into her } And
if she knew the name of the woman against
whom this outburst of hate was directed,
would the knowledge be a propitiation and a

relief, or would it only turn the current of
her scorn and rage towards the culprit ? The
look of blank despair on Narva's face struck
Sibyl, even in the midst of her passion.

Oh, Narva,' she cried, ' if you feel this
shame so keenly, think what it must be forme
!' and she sank down beside Narva, and
fell upon her neck, sobbing hysterically.

Narva, faint and sick at heart, waited
till the storm of grief, of fury, should have
spent itself. Sibyl, who knew that it washer
way to be silent when she felt most
deeply, was satisfied to lay her head upon
that strong and tender heart, and gave
vent to her own passion in floods of tears.

They had both been too much engrossed
to notice the clanging of the bell, announcing
a visitor. Presently the servant came in to
say that the doctor was waiting to see
Madame la Comtesse.

Sibyl raised her head, and wiped her eyes,
and, with that mobility which was one of her
characteristics, in an instant had regained
complete self-possession.

I am coming,' she said to the valet ;
and then, turning to Narva, ' we have been
so full of this horror that I had not time to
tell you baby is not well,' she said ; ' I hope
It Is nothing serious, but I thought It better
to send for the doctor. Narva, you must
come and stay with me for a few days, and
help me to live through the first misery of
this trial. I shall die If I have not some one
to help me with sympathy. Gaston Is
shocked, but he can't enter Into my feelings.
The brougham will take you home now, and
you can put up what you want and come
straight back. Oh !' she exclaimed., looking
Into the girl's agonized face, ' what should 1
do without you to feel for me ?'

She kissed her, and hurried out of the
room.

But Narva had no notion of coming back
to have her own sufferings made tenfold
bitterer by the sight of Sibyl's hate and
anger. By the time she had driven home
she was, indeed, unequal to the effort, if
she had been ever so anxious to make it.

She sent a message to Sibyl saying that
she had nearly fainted on getting to her
own door, and must be quiet for that evening.


Poor Narva ! An earthquake had come
and shaken the earth under her feet since
morning, and shattered her paradise to ruins.
Was it possible it could be rebuilt again .^
Basil was now more fatally separated from
her than he had ever been before ; there
was no chance of his escaping ; the Prince
would take care of that. Had the Prince
any idea, she wondered, who the low woman
was ? And if not, would it propitiate him to
hear that she was the one he had sheltered
under his roof, and called his child, and
rescued from a cruel captivity ?

The day passed in a sort of stupor. It
was only when she lay down to rest that,
in the silence of the night, Narva awoke to
the remembrance that, apart from the wreck
of her hopes, and the blow that had crushed
her heart, other trials had overtaken her
which would not let her sit at home and

weep. What was she to do now ? How
was she to hive ? Practical dilemmas of
many kinds surrounded her ; urgent difficulties
were pressing to be dealt with. She
spent the night asking herself how she was
to meet them ; but the dawn broke and
found every problem unsolved. Daylight
seemed, indeed, only to magnify, by letting
in a more vivid mental light upon them,
the troubles that had loomed, dark enough,
but still vague, during the long, sleepless
night.

She must leave her present apartment,
for one thing. It was much too expensive
for her means and prospects now. She had
been spending money freely, and her funds
were running low. Where was she to find
pupils ? Sibyl was her only resource, and
her whole soul writhed at the thought of
having to depend on Sibyl. Suddenly
Narva remembered Marguerite.

I will go to Marguerite she said.

And she rose and dressed herself in the
gray twilight of the winter's morning.

VOL. I. 19

marguerite's sympathy.

ARK A was just starting for La
Villette, when a vehicle stopped
at the door. She looked out, and
saw Sibyl's brougham. Before there was
time to consider how she should endure this
new ordeal, It was made evident that Sibyl
was not in the brougham, for the footman
jumped down with a note In his hand, and
disappeared under the porte cohere. Presently
there was a ring at the door. Eudoxle
had gone out.

I win not open,' Narva thought ; ' It Is
no doubt asking me to go to her, and I can't
go ; I won't go !'

X

The servant rang three times, and then
gave It up, and the brougham drove away.
After waiting a few minutes to make sure of
its being at a safe distance, Narva went downstairs.


Passing the lodge, the concierge came out
and handed her a note.

The footman rang at mademoiselle's door,
but no one answered him,' said the woman.

The note was from Sibyl.

Come to me at once, darling. I am in a
sea of anguish. Baby has the small-pox ! I
am half mad.

Your own

Sibyl.'

Poor little angel !' said Narva, with a
pang. But his illness at this crisis was a
boon to her, inasmuch as it would keep Sibyl
away, and absorb her, and draw her mind
from the woman she wished to scourge.

It was a miserable morning. The rain
had been falling heavily all night ; every rut

19 — 2

and channel was turned into a pool, and a
cold drizzly rain was still falling". Narva had
used cabs, and freely enough, since she had
been in Paris, but the stern reign of economy
which had suddenly set in reminded her that
omnibuses were a cheaper mode of conveyance.
She found her way to the nearest
station, but it was so crowded that she had to
push on to the counter for a number, and
then push her way out again. An omnibus
was coming up ; as it slackened pace a crowd
trooped after it with their umbrellas spread,
looking like a whale, or some huge bird in
the wake of a ship. They looked intensely
ridiculous * making tail.' Narva did not care
to add her umbrella to the show ; besides, she
might be kept waiting an hour for a seat.
Was it not better to take a cab at once .^
As she was balancing the question in her
mind, a gentleman close to her called out :
Will this take me to La Villette T
No, monsieur,' said the conductor. * The
blue omnibus there with a correspondance
The gentleman hurried away, and Narva,

with an Inarticulate exclamation of thankfulness
for her escape, crossed the street after
him to where the blue omnibus was standing
empty ; they got in almost together, and took
seats opposite one another. The stranger
was a tall, lean man, with a sallow complexion
and marked features, carefully
dressed, with a certain air of distinction.
Narva more than once caught his eyes
fastened upon her. It so happened that
they stopped at the same place ; the stranger
got out first, assisted her to alight, touched
his hat, and went on his way.

Narva stood in the middle of the street,
waiting for a break in the stream of carts
and cabs to cross over. As she glanced
eagerly right and left she descried, a little
higher up, a small figure in the costume of a
Sister of Charity, waiting, like herself, to
cross the busy thoroughfare. There are
certain situations in which even Melpomene
could not look dignified ; for instance, hopping
over the puddles with petticoats slightly
kilted on a wet day ; and yet as Narva

watched Marguerite going through this
trying performance it did not seem any more
lacking in dignity than the steps and hops of
a little child.

Narva !' exclaimed Marguerite, in glad
surprise, when they met on the footpath.
How did you get here ? Did you walk ?'

No ; 1 came in the omnibus. Where are
you coming from .^'

I have been to the Rue du Bac. I got
an omnibus to the Madeleine, with a correspondance
but when I got out there was
such a crowd I saw I should have to wait an
hour for a place. So 1 started off on foot.
Life is too short to be spent waiting for the
omnibus. Oh, that horrid man !' she exclaimed,
casting a glance full of something
as near hatred as her sweet face could express
at some one coming out of a shop. ' I
should like to see that man flayed alive !'

Narva followed the direction of the glance,
and to her surprise saw that the object of
this murderous desire was the gentleman
who had been her vis-a-vis in the omnibus.

Who is that man ?' she asked, as the
stranger passed them.

He is a Prussian ; his name is Dr.
Schenk. He stole away our dear old dog,
Temper, and put him to death. Nobody
saw him doing it, so we could not attack
him; but there is no doubt he did it. His
business is to bribe little boys — our boys — to
catch dogs that he tries experiments on. He
ties them down, and cuts them up, and tortures
them alive. He is a fiend !'

He is a surgeon, I suppose,' said Narva ;
he does it in the interest of science.'

Nonsense! How can you talk like that,
Narva ? It is pure wickedness, and he is a
bad, cruel man.'

I don't want to defend vivisection ; I
loathe it,' said Narva ; ' but it is necessary
for science.'

Then science is wicked ; it is of the devil,
and ought to be done away with. It is
getting to be the curse of the world.'

What a little mediaeval bigot you are !'
laughed Narva.

Am I ? Well, I don't care. It makes
my heart burn when I think of our poor
gentle old Temper, and I hate your cruel
science that tortures our dumb fellow-servants.
I think a person who invents a good
poultice to relieve a poor aching body of
man or beast is a greater benefactor than
the man who invents how to blow up
ships, or finds out secrets by torturing live
dogs.'

Then you care more for dogs than for
human beings ?'

I care more for any dog alive than for
that man Schenk.'

They were close by the house now. A
carter came round the corner showering
blows on a powerful horse that was straining
and panting under a load of stones.

Oh, why do you beat him like that ?'
Marguerite cried piteously. ' Poor beast, he
is doing his best ! If you drive him so hard
he will drop !'

He's got to drop some day, like the rest
of us,' retorted the man, not ill-humoured.

Mais tranquillize-vous, ma soeur ; he hasn't
got a soul to save.'

How do you know whether he has or
not ?' demanded Marguerite, and she laid her
rough little gloveless hand on the quivering
flank of the animal. The meek, strong
creature turned his head towards her, and a
glance from his drooping eyes seemed to
thank her. She watched the man out of
sight to make sure he did not begin the
blows again.

I sometimes think those dray-horses maybe
angels in disguise,' she said ; ' they have
such a patient look in their faces.'

As they entered the house, the children
were being let loose from class Into the playground.
The rain had ceased, and the paved
court was dry.

I am just in time !' said Marguerite ; ' I
am on guard during the play-hour. You
won't mind staying out-of-doors } We can
sit down. I will just fetch my knitting.'

She ran into the house, and returned in a
moment. Her appearance was the signal fora

general assault from the children. There
must have been nearly three hundred of
them, Narva reckoned at a glance, and they
all shouted and gathered round Marguerite,
full of discourse of the greatest importance.
They caught her by the sleeve, they clutched
at her gown, they elbowed and fought to get
close enough to attract her attention. Marguerite
bore the onset quite unfettered, and
in some mysterious way satisfied the whole
tick in a minute and a half, and sent them
off to their play.

The two friends sat down in a sheltered
spot ; but they were hardly seated when a
scream from the other end of the court sent
Marguerite flying off again. A small child
had been knocked down by a companion
twice its size, and was proclaiming in lusty
yells that it was badly hurt. Marguerite
picked up the toddler, and kissed it and made
it well, and then with a sharp rebuke sent the
delinquent to stand with her face to the wall.

Now let us have a quiet talk,' she said,
coming back to Narva.

There is not much chance of quiet with
this population of orphans to keep in order,'
said Narva, disappointed, and a Httle chilled.

They are not all orphans corrected
Marguerite, as if the point must be of interest
to Narva ; ' there are not more than thirty of
them orphans, unfortunately. I mean the
parents are so troublesome it is a pity they
are not : they drink, and they neglect the
poor little things, and maltreat them, and
sometimes half kill them. I often think what
a mercy it would be if the children of the
poor could be born orphans !'

• What a pity the parents don't kill them
right off! Then the poor little wretches
would go to heaven, instead of living to
grow up and go to hell, like their parents,'
said Narva.

Oh, what a dreadful thing to say ! Their
parents generally die much better than they
live. They have suffered so much, poor
things, that God waits for them at the end.'

Ah, does He ? I have often noticed how
peacefully the peasants die with us.'

The poor die peacefully everywhere ;
they have found it so hard to live, that
it comes easy to them to die, even when
they die as criminals. Death is always
a release to them. I am very anxious just
now about a poor man . . . Matilda, didn't
you promise Soeur Lucre you wouldn't scratch
your eye if she took the bandage off? If I
see you scratching it again, I'll have it put on
this minute! . . . His name is Antoine Drew.
Such a sober, hard-working fellow, and so
good to his mother ! But he married a
dreadful woman who drank, and then he
took to drink. One night he came home
and found her dead-drunk on the floor. He
went to bed, and in the morning, there she
lay in the same place dead, with a great cut
in her temple. He was taken up for murder ;
they said he gave her the blow on her head ;
and they have kept him in prison ten
months without trying him. I am afraid
they will neither acquit him nor condemn
him to death, but let him off with hard
labour.'

Do you ever get to care for any of those
dirty brats ?' asked Narva contemptuously.

For any of them ?' Marguerite repeated
in innocent surprise. ' I care for them all.
I love every one of them !'

What a capacious heart you must have !'

Oh, not half capacious enough !' Marguerite
sighed, quite unconscious of the
covert sneer. ' I wish it were ten times
bigger. If only I could empty it of self,
then God would come and fill it, and make
room for everybody !'

Oh, Marguerite !' Narva burst out with
sudden vehemence, ' why can't you find a
corner in it for me ? I do so want a crumb
of sympathy !'

Marguerite looked up quickly, and in a
moment her whole heart was in her eyes.
She dropped her knitting, and put her hand
on Narva's arm.

You are in trouble ? Oh, dear Narva,
why did you not tell me that at once } What
is the matter ? What has happened ?'

I am in terrible trouble. Marguerite,'

Narva said ; and pride and self-control broke
down, her voice shook, her eyes filled, and
the tears overflowed.

Marguerite hesitated for a moment ; then
quilting her needles she looked up at a
window on the first story, and called out,
Soeur Claire !' There was no answer.
She is not there. Never mind. Come
indoors.*

But the children ?' said Narva, fearful of
getting her into trouble.

Let their angels look after them ! What
else have they got to do ?' said Marguerite,
gallantly reckless. ' But I can keep an eye
on them from the parlour.'

They went into the parlour, whose window
commanded a view of the playground. It
was a square room with white walls, and
a polished oak floor, straw chairs, and a
round table ; a white Christ on a black cross
hung over the fireplace. Marguerite stirred
up the shabby make-shift of a fire, and drew
two chairs close to it, her own facing the
window.

^ Sit down and warm yourself, dear, and
tell me what Is the matter,' she said, as if
Narva's trouble were suddenly her one interest
in life.

And Narva poured out her story, Marguerite
listening as if she had no longer any
care on earth but to share her sorrow, and
comfort it. Never before had Narva realized
what a healing balm there is in human
sympathy ; and Marguerite's sympathy was
strong as fire, and sweet as a child's kiss.

With extraordinary quickness she grasped
the whole case, her shrewd practical sense
noting every detail, measuring difficulties and
chances. The situation was bad enough, but
by no means hopeless. She said so, supporting
her opinion by sensible arguments that
carried judgment with them, if not conviction.
Presently, by the strength of her
sympathy and her buoyant nature, she had
lifted Narva from the depths of despair and
compelled her to take a more hopeful view of
everything. Basil's love had already proved
itself equal to the pressure of antagonistic

circumstances ; it had stood the test of
absence ; it was not Hkely to break down
before the opposition of his father ; he was
full of resources and of energy ; and they
were both so young : in fact, there were
many anchors of hope to cling to.

^ But Sibyl !' Narva exclaimed ; ' oh, Sibyl !
the thought of her breaks my heart !'

Dear Narva, you are suffering as much
from the destruction of an idol (which is
always a good thing for us, darling, however
painful) as from the blow that she has dealt
you. Half of our misery in life comes from
this setting up of idols ; for the idol is certain
to fall down some day with a crash, and we
get crushed under it.'

But I thought I knew Sibyl as I know
my own heart. I never could have believed
itl'

There is nearly always something in our
fellow-creatures' hearts — and even in our
own — that we never know, or could have
believed, until some test unexpectedly reveals
it to us.'

I suppose so ; and that is the cruellest
part of adversity ; it is always applying that
test to our fellow-creatures, and compelling
us to try them. If only one might go on to
the end trusting and believing in those we
love without ever having to test them.'

It is sometimes good for us to be tested
said Marguerite.

Narva did not answer. Presently she
said :

Do you think that if Sibyl knew the
truth, she would hate me and curse me as
bitterly as she does now without knowing it ?'

It is very hard to say what Sibyl would
do, she is so many characters all in one ; yet
when I remember the agonies of grief she
certainly did suffer when you were imprisoned,
and how tenderly fond she was of you at
Yrakow . I can see her now when we
were coming away, clinging to you as if she
could never unclasp her arms and let you go.'

Ah ! yes ; that was just what deceived me.
She took me to her arms, but she never took
me to her heart ; I can see that now. She

VOL. I. 20

has been feeding me on false sacraments of
love all my life. And to think that I must
be dependent on her for the means of earning
my bread ! Oh, If it were not for Basil, I
would rather starve a hundred times !'

You need not torment yourself about that
just yet,' said Marguerite ; * I may be able
to help you. I know a great number of
people. I will speak to several friends of
mine, and we will find you some lessons.
Try and don't fret over that trouble ; and
you must stay at home and take care of
yourself for a few days, or else you will
certainly fall ill. I will come and see you
with Sibyl in a day or two, and '

^ Sibyl !' Narva broke In. ' She can't come
to me. The baby is 111 with small-pox.'

Nonsense ! It Is nothing but chicken-pox.
I saw the child this morning ; I forgot
to tell you. I called there before I went to
the Rue du Bac. Sibyl sent yesterday,
Imploring me to come at once : she was in
an agony of grief, and wanted my sympathy.
But I have something else to do besides

flying across the town with my sympathy ;
and as nobody was dead, I suspected it was
some imaginary grief, as in fact it proved.
But this morning came a message saying the
baby was dying, so I went. It was nothing
at all. The doctor had just been, and
laughed at it. Sibyl was lying down, and
could not be disturbed, and Gaston had gone
out riding.'

Gaston is very good to me Narva said.

He has a great regard and admiration for
you, and he would do anything in his power
to serve you.'

I believe that,' said Narva, tightening her
grasp of his sister's hand.

Marguerite noticed that the hand which
had been shivering with cold a little while
ago was now burning hot.

I wonder whether you would do something
to please me ?' she said, in a caressing
tone.

Of course I would. What is it ?' Narva
answered.

Well, go home and get into bed, and I

20 2

will give you something to take that will
prevent your having a bad cold.'

She ran off to the dispensary, and was
back in a trice with a small bottle and a
mustard plaster.

If your chest feels sore to-night, you must
promise me to put this on she said ; * and I
am going to send you home in a cab.
Nonsense ! I have plenty of money, and
I can't afford to lose my sister Narva, or tolet
her lose her voice. Just think what that
would be !'

Narva dropped her head on Marguerite's
shoulder and burst into tears ; but it was nota
bitter flood, and it loosened the pressure on
her brain. Truly God had entered into Marguerite's
heart, and made it a Bethlehem, a
house of bread, where the hungry might
come and feed upon the bread of love, for
want of which so many human lives are
perishing.

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

G.,C.^ Co.

3 0112 055265372

/^

;,■!>■?

m-;-'''^-

OF THE
U N Diversity
or ILLINOIS

Omen
v.Q.

the University. """^ •^^'"" '" dismissal from

To renew coll Telephone Center, 333-8400

L161— O-1096

A flouel.

KATHLEEN O'MEARA,

AUTHOR OF ' FREDERIC OZANAM,' ' IZA's STORY,' ' MADAME Moil, HER SALON
AND HER FRIENDS,' ' THE OLD HOUSE IN PICARDY,' ETC., ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. IT.

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

Publishers! in ordinary to ser ^ajcstg the (^ixtcn.

1888.

[Awl Rights Reserved. ]

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/narkanovel02omea

tv

CONTENTS OF VOL. 11.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. THIS IS MY GOOD FRIEND, DR. SCHENK - I

II. THE IMPRESARIO - - - - l6

III. DR. SCHENK IN ATTENDANCE ON Narva - 29

IV. Narva AT LA VILLETTE - - - 37
V. Narva EXPOUNDS THE GOSPEL OF THIS

WORLD - - - - - 50

VI. THE DOWNWARD STEP - - - "59

VII. THE MEETING IN THE QUARTIER LATIN - 67

VIII. GOLD IN THE DROSS - - - - 89

IX. SIBYL MAKES ACQUAINTANCE WITH LA

VILLETTE - - - - - 96

X. RUMBLINGS OF THE STORM - - "117

XI. LA VILLETTE IN ARMS - - - - 127

XII. narva's lullaby - - - - 141

XIII. MARGUERITE DISOBEYS THE LAW - - 149

XIV. Narva SINGS FOR JOY - - - 161

CHAPTER PAGE

XV. '■ IN THE NAME OF THE EMPEROR !' - - I73

XVI. THE PRIDE OF THE ZOROKOFFS - - 185

XVII. IN THE VISION OF THE NIGHT - - 2o8

XVIII. PENDING THE TRIAL - - - - 226

XIX. IN COURT - 232

XX. LARCHOFF's MURDERER - - - 257

xxi. ' i have never loved any woman as i loved

you' 269

xxii. renunciation - - - - 287

xxiii. la scala - 306

3j»;c

CHAPTER I.

THIS IS MY GOOD FRIEND, DR. SCHENK.'

HE first thing Narva did on returning
home was to give notice
to the concierge that she meant
to leave that day week. Then, obedient to
Marguerite's wishes, she went to bed. The
warmth and rest — or, as Narva preferred to
believe, the virtue of Marguerite's cherishing
sympathy which had passed into her remedies
had the effect of staving off the illness
which had seemed to threaten her. She
rose feeling little the worse physically for,

VOL. II. 2 1

the violent emotions, the sleepless nights she
had gone through, and the chill of yesterday.


In the afternoon, the concierge brought
up a letter from the landlord in answer to
the congo, It was a polite but distinct refusal
to accept it. He regretted to remind his
amiable tenant that she had signed an engagement
to occupy, or pay for, the apartment
up to April 15th. Narva uttered an
exclamation of dismay ; but, referring to the
paper in question, she found that this was
true : she was bound to her present expensive
quarters for nearly three months longer.
There was nothing to be done but trust to
Providence to bring her safe out of this new
difficulty, as out of so many others.

In its outward tenor her life remained,
therefore, undisturbed, notwithstanding the
violent change that had shaken it inwardly.
Marguerite's plans, practical like herself,
succeeded. Through a kind and wealthy
South American lady, who was a benefactress
to her poor, she procured at once several

rich pupils for Narva, all foreigners, who
came to her house twice a week for lessons
and a general singing-class.

To Narva, Sibyl was affectionate as ever.
She took a lively interest in the singing-class,
and would come and sit and listen to the
lesson, and bring out the superiority of the
teacher's method by her clever criticisms,
thus raising Narva's value in the eyes of the
pupils and of their mothers, to whom the
charming and durante Comtesse de Beau-crimson
was an oracle on art as well as fashion.
The singing-lessons came in this way to
be a pleasant social opportunity. Narva,
moreover, might have led a gay life
enough if she had been so inclined, for
invitations poured in on her, but she refused
them all.

I know my value,' she said to Marguerite;
these fine ladies would be glad enough to
have me to help out their entertainments ;
but if their sons or their brothers were the
least bit civil to me, they would put me to
the door. I shan't expose myself to that.

21 — 2

Let them stay in their place, and I will stain
mine.'

She had not had a sign from Basil since
that terrible letter from the Prince, and there
was no one to whom she could even mention
his name, except Marguerite. Sibyl, as if
the subject were too intolerable, avoided it.
When she did speak of it, it was to pity
her father and herself, and to condemn Basil,
and wish the woman dead who had entrapped
him.

The only person who might have given
her any news of Basil was Ivan Gorff ; but
he had left Paris as soon as he had conducted
her there, and had never written
since, and she did not know his address.
There was, of late, something very mysterious
about Ivan. Narva knew that he associated
with the most advanced revolutionists,
yet he came and went perfectly free, while
Basil, for merely conniving at the movement
which Ivan was, she suspected, actively precipitating,
had been seriously compromised,
only escaping imprisonment through a lucky

chance. Then Ivan was leading a strange
life for a man of thirty, in possession of a
fortune, which, since Sophie's death, must
be reckoned by millions.

His personal appearance suggested biting
economy, offensive slovenliness, or sordid
avarice, whereas in former days he had been
somewhat dandified in his dress, and generous
as a king. On the journey from Koenigs-
berg he had put up at a miserable inn at
Berlin, apologizing to Narva for taking her
there, but pleading as a reason that the
people were honest, and that he was in the
habit of staying there. What motive could
induce a man of his wealth to deprive himself
not alone of luxuries, but of the comforts
that he had all his life been accustomed to ?

One afternoon, on coming home from a
lesson, Narva, who had been thinking a
great deal about Ivan, and wishing to hear
from him, found that in her absence he had
called and left word that he would call again
next morning. It was a bitter disappointment
to have missed him ; he was sure to

have news of Basil ; he had probably seen
him. She was too excited to sleep that night,
and counted the hours till morning. But
morning passed, and Ivan did not appear.
He had left no address, so she could not
write to him. The singing-class was at one
o'clock, and Narva's terror was that he would
call while it was going on, and that she
should miss him again. But the singing-class
came to an end, and there was still no
sign of him. Immediately after the lesson,
Sibyl came to take her for a drive. There
was no ostensible reason for refusing, so
Narva had to go.

It was the longest drive she ever took,
and Sibyl noticed that she was strangely
preoccupied. On returning home she found
a note from Ivan, saying he had been
hindered from coming by an accident, but
he hoped to see her in a few days. Narva
was too impatient to wait for his visit. The
note contained his address, so early the next
morning she set out to see him.

The Rue B , where he was staying,

was a narrow sort of lane-way behind the
Pantheon ; the house a shabby-looking
maison publie.

Yes, monsieur is at home,' the concierge
said, giving her the number of the room on
the fifth story.

Narva did not stop to think of the proprieties.
She mounted the dark stairs, steep
and narrow as a ladder, and knocked at
No. 96.

Come in,' said a voice.

She opened the door. It was a small
attic room, full of tobacco smoke, with the
roof slanting on one side ; no fire, no carpet.
Ivan was sitting in a high-backed armchair,
buttoned to his chin in a huge furred coat, a
pipe in his mouth, his head swathed to an
enormous size in a woollen scarf. He looked
like some grotesque caricature of a man.

Narva Larik !' he said, removing his
pipe, and his blue eyes widened and sparkled
with that inarticulate laughter which gave to
his countenance its peculiar expression of
childlike candour and merriment.

I thought something must have happened,
as you did not keep your appointment
Narva replied. ' You have met with an
accident ?'

No ; only a fierce fit of pain that seized
me like a tiger. It knocked me over in an
hour. I was half mad. But it is gone now.
Schenk pricked me with morphine, and killed
the pain.'

Schenk ?' said Narva interrogatively.

'He is a doctor ; a very clever fellow, and
a friend of mine. Sit down, won't you ?'

He pushed toward her the armchair he
had been occupying — the only one in the
room.

What could have reduced Ivan Gorff to
these extremities ?

When did you arrive in Paris ?' Narva
asked.

The day before yesterday. I have come
straight from St. Petersburg without drawing
bridle. I took cold on the journey. It was
like travelling through Siberia.'

Narva bethought herself that if he had

travelled first-class he would not have had
to complain of the cold.

You saw Basil ?' she said.

Yes. He is well, but as savage as a
bear. He and the Prince quarrel all day.
Basil has got himself into a fine dilemma.
He ought to have kept his affairs to himself,
at least for awhile longer.'

It was not he who told the Prince of our
engagement. Some one whom he had trusted
with the secret betrayed him.'

He ought not to have trusted anybody
with it. He ought never to have put a line
on paper about it. I warned him many a
time to be cautious, that the police had their
eyes and ears everywhere ; but it was no
use. What did you do with those papers of
his?'

I have them safe with me.'

That is foolish. You ought to burn
them. They may get you into trouble
again.'

How could they ? What do the police
know about me here ?'

Ivan's round eyes widened and twinkled
until it seemed as if they were going to
explode with laughter.

You fancy the police don't know just as
much about you here as if you were in St.
Petersburg ? You are very naive, Narva
Larik.'

Am I ? Well, you have something more
interesting to say than that, have you not ?
Tell me about the Prince and Basil. The
Prince wrote to Sibyl that if Basil did not
surrender within three months he would have
him sent to Kronstadt, and forbidden to leave
the town until he came to his senses. Do
you think he is capable of carrying out that
threat ?'

He will try all soft means before he has
recourse to the hard. He is trying to bribe
Basil now with the promise of getting Father
Christopher liberated and brought back to
bless his marriage with Princess Krinsky.'

Basil is not such a fool as to fall into that
trap.'

Narva laughed.

^ Humph !' Ivan moved his huge bundle
of a head slowly up and down. ' The Prince
is convinced that if he went to the Emperor
and told him the whole story, he would grant
Father Christopher's release at once. Marie
Krinsky is in love with Basil, and Prince
Krinsky is in high favour now. The
Empress, too, is greatly annoyed at Basil's
refusing to marry her pet maid-dishonour.
Basil knows all this ; and then the thought of
Father Christopher's captivity haunts him
perpetually.'

Narva grew pale.

The Emperor does not know about Basil's
supposed share in Larchoff's death ?' she
asked.

No ; but Basil thinks he does. He never
heard, of course, of that tampering with his
letters.'

Does the Prince know who it is that Basil
wants to marry .^'

He did not tell me if he did.'

Basil would have told you ?'

Very likely, if he had had a chance ; but

we were hardly five minutes alone. He
wanted me to come next day and have a
quiet talk ; but I had not the time. I was
obliged to leave the next morning.'

What could this business be that drove
Ivan from city to city, compelling him to
renounce the pleasure of a meeting with his
best friend ? Narva felt that she must know
at all costs.

Why cannot you trust me as Basil
does ?' she said, looking him straight in the
eyes.

Ivan met her challenging glance with a
beam of satisfaction.

To trust our friends is sometimes the
unkindness thing we can do. Basil proved
that to you. But now that you are comparatively
out of harm's way, I will tell you
anything you care to know : I have thrown
in my lot with those who want to do away
with tyrants and set the nations free. This
involves ways and means which those who
don't want to risk their heads had better
know nothiiiQ- about. I don't care about

risking mine. If it had gone while that
tigerish pain was clawing it yesterday, I
should have been glad enough. But, on the
other hand, it would upset a lot of things if I
were to drop off now. I am the telegraph
between all the centres. There is not a plot
hatched anywhere but I am the first to hear
of it ; I carry messages that can't be written ;
I organize meetings ; I get the pamphlets
published ; I work the occult machinery of
the Socialist press, and direct its underground
operations. All this gives me plenty to do.
It is not the work that brings pay and glory,
like the work of the hero in livery who
serves a tyrant, and calls it serving his
country ; but it is a hero's work, all the
same. The man who undertakes It must
renounce everything and risk everything,
and live every day with death dogging him
like his shadow.'

Narva looked at Ivan with a new interest.
Assuredly no man ever presented a more unheroic
appearance than he did, with his ungainly
figure and his huge turbaned head ;

nevertheless, she began to recognise in him
a hero of some new and genuine, though
perhaps dangerous, type.

And is Basil involved in this work ?' she
inquired.

Yes ; he has now thrown himself into it
body and soul.'

'Ah!'

They were silent for a moment. Then
Ivan said :

Why should not you join us, Narva
Larik 1 You might help greatly, and without
the same risk, here in France.'

Show me how. Show me anything this
head, or these hands, can do, and I will do it !'
she answered impulsively.

Ivan held out his hand to her, and she
laid hers in the broad palm that closed on it
with a strong clasp. As they sat thus, hand
in hand, the door opened, and a man came
quickly in.

Narva recognised Dr. Schenk, and coloured
violently.

Oh, I am so glad )ou have come !' Ivan

said, slowly releasing her hand. ' This is
my good friend Dr. Schenk — Mademoiselle
Narva Larik, one of ours

Narva bowed, and stood up.

Pray don't let me send you away, mademoiselle.
I won't detain Gorff a minute,'
said Schenk.

I was just going,' Narva replied, her
embarrassment relieved by his perfect ease
and respectful manner. ' I hope there is
nothing serious the matter with M. Gorff i^'

'It is serious: a case of suicidal mania,
observed the medical man. ' If he exercised
common humanity to himself he would be as
strong as a horse, but he maltreats himself as
if he were a dog.'

I should not have thought you capable of
maltreating a dog,' Narva said, remembering
Marguerite's abuse of the vivisector.

She gave her hand again to Ivan, and
bowing coldly to Schenk, went out.

THE IMPRESARIO.

VI

N reaching home Narva found a
note from Sibyl, which a servant
had just left. She opened the
let-scented missive, and read :

My Darling, — I bring you a wonderful
piece of good news !' (Narva stopped to
take breath. Had Basil surrendered ?) 'It
has come so suddenly I can almost fancy it a
fairy trick. Fortune is going to be kind to
you, my Narva, and reward you after all you
have suffered. Listen : I have just had a
visit from Signor Zampa, who was director
of the Italian Opera here last year, and is
now managing La Scala, at Naples. He

gave me lessons when I came to Paris.
Well, dearest, he is in search of a soprano
voice to take the place of prima donna at La
Scala. An artist who heard you here on that
memorable night, carried the fame of your
voice and your genius to Naples, and Signor
Zampa has come on here to see if you would
suit him and accept his overtures. I gave
him your address, and with difficulty dissuaded
him from rushing straight off to you,
there and then. I said he would not find
you till two o'clock, and I promised to send
word to you to expect his visit at two. I am
beside myself with delight ! Come to breakfast
tomorrow morning, and meantime attune
your voice to its heavenliest key, and sing
the soul out of Zampa's breast, and millions
out of his pocket !

Your own

Sibyl.'

Narva dropped the letter with an inarticulate
exclamation. She was bewildered. It
might, no doubt, be a most brilliant career

VOL. IL 2 2

that was opened out unexpectedly to her, but
at this first moment she could not realize
anything but the shock of the proposal. To
turn public singer, to go on the stage — she
who was engaged to Prince Zorokoff ? Was
it possible to contemplate such a thing ?
And yet how was she to refuse it without
incurring Sibyl's deep displeasure, rousing
her suspicions, and in that case alienating her,
perhaps irrevocably ? And there was not
even time to think it over.

It was just one o'clock, and Signor Zampa
was likely to be punctual. She threw aside
her bonnet, and went to the piano, and excitedly
turned over the leaves of a music-book.
She could not well refuse to sing for
the impresario, if he asked her, and in the
midst of her perplexity, the desire of the artist
to win the approval of so great a critic
asserted itself.

As the clock struck two, Signor Zampa
rang at the door.

Narva, flushed with excitement, looked
her best when he came in.

You have heard from the Comtesse de
Beaucrillon the object of my visit, mademoiselle
?' he said, conquered at once by her
beauty.

Yes. It has taken me by surprise. I
never dreamed of going on the stage. I
have not had the necessary training for it.
I don't think I am at all fitted to be an opera
singer.'

Perhaps I am a better judge of that than
you. Will you let me hear you sing ?'

She rose without any pretence of shyness,
and went to the piano. Zampa pulled off his
gloves.

You will accompany me ?' she said.
Certainly. What will you sing }'

Choose anything you like,' motioning
indifferently to the books and songs that
were scattered about.

Let's try this,' he said, opening the partition
o{ Norma at the * Casta Diva.'

It happened to be a favourite piece of
Narva's ; she sang it well at all times, but,
stimulated by his presence, she rendered it

22 — 2

now with a perfection of art that must have
delighted the maestro, even if her voice had
not enchanted him by its rare qualities.
When she ended, he burst out with a
rapturous ^ Brava !' and seizing her hand,
kissed it with the demonstrative enthusiasm
of his nation. He entreated her to sing
several other pieces, each chosen with a view
to brig out the various qualities of her voice.
Narva, inspired by his admiration and discerning
criticism, sang at her best, feeling
that ecstasy in the expansion of her splendid
powers which is by turns the triumph and the
despair of every true artist. Every fibre in
her was thrilling to the music of her voice.
Something of the grand, untamed creature
that was visible in her majestic lines and
strong, supple limbs began to throb in her
pulses and course in her blood ; and when
the Italian started up and described the
brilliant future that was before her, she was
more ready to respond to his offers than she
could have believed possible an hour ago.
As he stood there, with his fiery eloquence

and mercurial gesticulation, she could almost
fancy a wizard had sprung up on her path,
waving his wand, and bidding the mountains
roll down and the desert blossom at her feet.

You will be a star that will outshine every
star in the musical firmament of our age !' he
declared, executing a sort of war-dance on
the hearth rug in his excitement ; ' all Europe
will ring with your fame ; crowned heads
will bow down before the royalty of your
genius !'

Narva listened, and felt something like
what the bird must feel when a kind hand is
about to open its cage and set it free to take
flight into its native element : she had been
beating the bars of her cage all her life, even
before she knew it.

Zampa saw that she was won, and he kept
throwing in the incense, till the fumes
enveloped her and went to her brain. It
was a delicious intoxication. But suddenly
the sweet smoke began to choke her : she
had forgotten Basil What would he say ?
How would this contemplated step affect

their common destiny ? Would the prhna
donna millionnaire be a more suitable wife for
Prince Zorokoff than Narva Larik ?

I am so taken by surprise,' she said, not
attempting to disguise her emotion, ' that I
cannot answer you to-day. I must have time
to think over your proposal, and to consult
my friends before I decide. I will write to
you in a day or two.'

But the impresario went away confident
and exulting. He had no doubt of having
secured the prize.

When he was gone, Narva asked herself
whether she was waking or dreaming. Had
she done wisely in leaving him to believe she
would entertain his offer ? As to consulting
her friends, who had she to consult ? Sibyl
would think her insane if she hesitated for a
moment, and would never forgive her for rejecting
an offer that she, Sibyl, so wholly
approved of. There was Marguerite : Marguerite
was sure to cry out in horror at the
mere notion of the stage ; to her it would
seem like walking into the lions' den. Still,

Narva must speak to some one, and there
was only Marguerite, and Marguerite's
sympathy was sure to be comforting, and it
might possibly be illuminating.

Early next morning she set out to La
Villette. To her great surprise, Marguerite,
far from being horrified, met the idea complacently.


I expected you would have shrieked at
the bare notion of my risking my soul in such
a wicked place as the theatre !' said Narva.

Is it such a wicked place ?' said Marguerite
; ' I didn't know. A school friend of
mine, a very pious girl, lost her fortune, and
went on the stage, and sang for a year at the
Opera Comique, and she remained as pious
as ever, and died like a little saint. But that
was in Paris ; perhaps at Naples it is worse.*

I suspect it is the same everywhere, pretty
much,' Narva replied. ' But I have no fear
on that score,' she added, bridling inwardly ;
self-respect would protect me as well on the
stage as walking about Paris alone. I was
not thinking of any danger of that sort ; it

does not exist for me. I was thinking how
the thing will appear to Sibyl'

Sibyl ? Why, Sibyl has invented it.'

I mean about Basil. Would it not be a
greater degradation for him to marry me If I
were a public singer ?'

Ah !' Marguerite slipped her hands Into
her wide sleeves, and put her head a little to
one side, and gave her whole mind to the
solution of this problem. ' Sibyl could tell
us she said, after a moment ; ' but we can't
ask Sibyl'

No, we can't ask Sibyl'

They sat silent awhile. Then Marguerite,
like a person who, having passed every
argument In review, arrives at a conclusion,
said :

It always seems to me that the safest plan
is to take what Providence sends to us, and
trust the consequences to Him. If you are
running no risk to your soul, I don't see why
you should not accept this offer. Instead of
being an obstacle between you and Basil, it
may be the means of drawing you together.

Perhaps Sibyl did not tell you, but her terror
is that Basil, in spite of the Prince and the
police, may contrive to make his escape from
Russia. And if he does, how is he to live ?
The Prince won't supply him with money,
certainly ; and he would not like to be dependent
on Sibyl — that is to say, on Sibyl's
husband. He would not mind, perhaps,
being dependent on his wife for a time.'

Narva threw out her arms, and caught the
small figure to her heart.

Oh, Marguerite, what a blessed little
Solomon you are !' she exclaimed, in delight.
That would indeed be a joyful culmination
to rescue Basil from poverty and dependence,
and to be revenged on those who have
been so cruel to us both !'

Oh, never mind the revenge, Narva !'
Marguerite entreated. This was not the
feeling she had meant to excite ; but discussing
with Narva was like stirring the
embers of a smouldering fire ; the frame
leaped up and the sparks flew out when you
least expected it.

The bell rang, and Marguerite had to say
good-bye and hurry off to her duties.

Narva went straight to the Rue St. Dominique.
She found Sibyl in high excitement.

Zampa has been here, and he is beside
himself with satisfaction ! He draws such
a horoscope for you as must make all the
Malibrans pine with envy in their graves.
Narva, you have a splendid career before
you. I am so happy ! It takes such a load
off my heart !'

She kissed Narva, and then turned to
look at the practical side of the affair.
The impresario was liberal as a prince.
Narva was to proceed without delay to
Florence, and put herself in training under
the great master there. The whole tenor of
her life was changed in an hour ; she was
lifted from poverty, obscurity, and carling
care to ease, brilliancy, and the prospect of
immediate fame. Sibyl entered into it all
with that quick sympathy and subtle understanding
that were part of her power.

But you take it all too coldly, Narva,' she

said suddenly, her keen perception detecting
the lack of response in Narva. *Are you
not glad, dear? I thought you would be so
excited.'

I suppose I ought to be.' Then, after
a moment, ' Does M. de Beaucrillon say
anything about it ?' Narva asked irrelevantly.

Gaston ? He is delighted. Did you
think he would not care ?'

Oh no ! he is too kind not to care.' Narva
repressed a sigh. She seemed tired ; but
there was something on her mind, Sibyl suspected.
' I am just wondering whether it
will make any difference when I am before
the footlights,' she said, with a constrained
laugh — ' whether you will feel quite the same
to me when I am a public singer.'

As if that could make the smallest difference
!' Sibyl exclaimed, looking at her in
blank amazement.

Narva laughed again in the constrained
way.

No doubt,' she said to herself, ' I shall
remain just as far beneath the Comtesse de

Beaucrillon, inde Princess Zorokoff, whether
I turn public singer, or remain in my native
obscurity as Narva Larik.'

So it was settled that they were to close at
once with the impresario's offer. Narva sat
down at Sibyl's table, and wrote a note saying
she would prepare at once to start for Florence,
and enter on her preparation for the
opera. Then, to Sibyl's disappointment, she
insisted on going home, alleging that she
was tired and wanted rest.

Sibyl saw that she was both excited and
depressed. ' You are quite feverish,' she
said, holding Narva's hand, and then touching
her hot forehead ; ' you ought to stay here,
and let me put you lying down, and bathe
your temples with eau-de-cologne.'

But Narva would not be persuaded,
although she would gladly have lain down,
and the touch of Sibyl's cool soft hand on her
aching head would have been soothing.

CHAPTER III.

DR. SCHENK IN ATTENDANCE ON Narva.

Area was in a glow of heat when
she left Sibyl's warm rooms, and
met the bitter wind that blew hard
from the north. It was a long walk and a
bleak one by the river, but she faced it with
a kind of reckless desperation. She reached
home very tired, and was scarcely indoors
when she was seized with a shivering fit.

Mademoiselle has taken a chill,' said
Eudoxie ; * I must make her a tisane.'

The tisane did not prove as potent as
Eudoxie expected. Narva spent a restless
night, and in the morning her throat was
swollen, her head ached and her hands burned.

Mademoiselle has fever. I had better goto
the chemist and ask him for something to
cut it said Eudoxie.

But Narva took a pencil and wrote a line
to Marguerite, and desired the maid to take
it at once to La Villette.

As Eudoxie was going out with the note
she met Ivan Gorff, and told him on what
errand she was bound.

'Mademoiselle Narva must see a doctor
at once,' he said. ' I will go and fetch one
while you take that message to La Villette.'


Eudoxie gave him the key of the apartment,
and hurried off to the omnibus.

Ivan called a cab and drove straight to Dr.
Schenk's lodgings, and was back with him
before Eudoxie had returned.

Schenk knocked at the bedroom-door ;
there was no answer, so he opened it and
looked in. Narva was alarmed and amazed
on seeing so unexpected a visitor walk into
her room ; but he calmed her at once by his
manner as much as by his words, and explained

how he came there, felt her pulse,
and, without troubling her with useless questions,
withdrew. The visit did not last three
minutes, and nothing could have been more
discreet and professional than his manner
throughout.

When he went back to the salon. Marguerite
was there, talking to Ivan Gorff.
She was horrified to find that the vivisector
had been called in, but she kept this to herself;
he had the reputation of being a skilful
doctor, and there was comfort in that.

What is the matter ?' she inquired, when
Schenk had closed the door of the bedroom.


'Inflammation of the lungs; it has advanced
very rapidly ; she is in high fever.'

Is she delirious ?'

She will be in a few hours, I expect.'

Marguerite uttered an exclamation of distress,
and went into the bedroom. Narva
signed to her to stoop down.

Go to the trunk behind the door,' she
whispered ; ' you will find an Ivory casket ;

the key is in the drawer of the writing-table.
Take it away and keep it safe for me, or for
Basil'

Mt is safe enough where it is, daring,'
said Marguerite ; ' I will see that nobody
touches it.'

But if anything happens to me '

You mean if you died ? You have not
the smallest intention of doing anything so
sensible,' said Marguerite, In her bright way ;
you have caught a bad cold, and I am
going to look after you till you get well.
Our sisters here in the parish will come and
see you every day. I'm going to tell them ;
so between us you have small chance of
escaping to heaven.'

Narva made an effort to say something,
but her throat seemed to close, she could
only form the word with her lips :

Sibyl ?'

I will let her know you are not well.'

Marguerite smoothed the pillow and the
counterpane, and kissed Narva on the forehead
; she then drew the curtain so as to

darken the room, and went back to the
salon.

During her absence, Dr. Schenk and Ivan
had settled it between them that no one who
understood Russian should be allowed near
Narva, lest in her delirium she should betray
secrets that might work mischief to herself
and others.

When Marguerite reappeared, Schenk
said :

I think it right to tell you, ma soeur,
that I see symptoms which threaten diphtheria
; the disease has not taken that
character so far, but it may develop it
before tomorrow morning ; in that case it
will be necessary to find a nurse who is not
afraid of the contagion. I have one whom I
can trust.'

Our sisters will take care of her,' Marguerite
replied. * I was going to write to
Madame de Beaucrillon/ she said, turning to
Ivan ; ' but if there be any fear of diphtheria
she must not come.'

It would be a great imprudence to expose

VOL. II. 23

her to the risk, especially as there is no
necessity for it,' Ivan replied.

Marguerite determined to keep Sibyl away.

It proved a wise precaution as regarded
Narva. She was soon delirious, and raved
incessantly about Basil, about Kronstadt,
about Ivan and his revolutionary work ; she
talked chiefly in Russian, but now and then
she spoke in French, and Marguerite, who
very quickly detected the fiction that kept
Sibyl away, understood enough of Narva's
wanderings to make her grateful to Schenk
for inventing it.

Sibyl was unremitting in her inquiries,
and sent every day to know if there was
nothing she could do to help. Meantime
the illness, inflammation of the lungs, ran its
course without complications ; the danger
remained throughout potential, not going
beyond the peril which must attend every
serious attack of the kind. M. de Beaucrillon,
having once heard the word diphtheria pronounced,
would not hear of his wife's going
near the house until Narva should have been

pronounced convalescent, and until the atmosphere
should have been purified of every
lingering possibility of contagion. It was
arranged that as soon as the doctor approved
of it, Narva should come to the Rue St.
Dominique, and remain there until she went
down to Beaucrillon with the family. All
this was settled without reference to Narva
herself, her acquiescence in Sibyl's wishes
being taken for granted. She was going on
very satisfactorily, but just as the day for
her removal approached, the baby fell ill with
croup. After a week of mortal terror and
suspense to the parents, the child recovered,
but was ordered off at once to waters in
Germany. Narva consequently received a
note from Sibyl full of despair at the double
disappointment, and entreating her to go
down to Beaucrillon as soon as she felt equal
to the move, and wait there until they rejoined
her.

It would have been a great surprise to
Sibyl if she could have heard Narva exclaim,

on reading this note, ' What a relief !'

23—2

She had been looking forward with dread
to the long term of close companionship with
Sibyl. Weak as she was now, her one desire
was to be left quiet. It would have taxed
both her moral and physical strength too
severely to be shut in with Sibyl, to be
obliged to undergo her effusive tenderness
and respond to it, and to hear her outpourings
of anger and despair about Basil. Once
again the blessed baby had come like a
messenger of mercy to her rescue.

Narva AT LA VILLETTE.

Area, white as an alabaster statue,
and all eyes, was sitting up in her
pretty salon, looking out at the
old garden, and listening to the birds singing,
when Marguerite came in, bringing, as usual,
fresh air from heaven with her.

I was just thinking of you,' said Narva.

That was a very good and wholesome
thought,' said Marguerite.

Yes ; and I was wishing I was a dog.'
That thought was not so good.'

I was thinking that I must leave this
apartment in a week, and I don't know under
the broad face of heaven where to find another.

Now if I were a dog, I might lodge
under the stars, which would be pleasant
enough, as the warm weather is at hand ; but
as I am a human being, the police would
take me up. As I went on thinking, it
occurred to me that I might find a lodging at
La Villette cheaper than in this part of the
city. Do you think I could get anything
clean and cheap near you ?'

Marguerite considered a moment.

Madame Blaquette has rooms to let at
the corner of the Place ; they are cheap and
bright, and they take in a good bit of sky,
and they are not five minutes from us.'

Then Madame Blaquette's rooms are just
the thing for me !'

A week after this conversation, Narva was
installed at Madame Blaquette's.

Madame Blaquette was a character in her
way. She had been servant in a gentleman's
family till she was forty, and now lived by
letting these rooms that took in a good bit
of sky. She posed for the decayed gentlewoman.
She had had a bachelor uncle, a

grocer, whose money she had always expected
to inherit ; and, being blessed with a
lively imagination, she had enjoyed the inheritance
almost as much in prospect as if
she already possessed it. She felt, therefore,
deeply wronged when, at the age of sixty,
this bachelor uncle took to himself a wife,
and, dying at the end of a year, left all he
had to her and her baby. Madame Blaquette
always alluded to the event as ' the loss of
my fortune,' and would heave a sigh when
speaking of ' the days before my reverses.'

She is a sentimental old goose said
Marguerite, ' but honest as the sun. And
her lodgers are always respectable ; they
are generally friends of mine.'

Narva had not yet discovered that to be a
friend of Marguerite's was a title to respectability
open to discussion ; it was not long,
however, before she became aware that Marguerite
was on intimate terms with all the
waifs and strays and drunkards of the district.
For Narva, being curious to make
acquaintance with the neighbourhood, and

having as yet no work to do, went about
occasionally with Marguerite on her rounds.
In this way she came soon to see the influence
Marguerite exercised, and the position
she held, in spite of her youth — perhaps,
indeed, because of it — both with her sisters
and with the population of La Villette. It
was very amusing to see how she queened
it over them, tripping along in her heavy
shoes, carrying a bundle or a basket like any
little peasant-woman. The children left their
play to pull at her gown and get a pat on
the head ; women at their wash-tubs stopped
soaping or scrubbing to exchange a word
with her, or call out some piece of domestic
news ; shopkeepers in the act of selling
turned to nod and say, ' Honour, ma
soeur ' ; gamins and roughs suspended their
wrangling, and waited till she had passed to
finish their oaths. It took Narkas breath
away to see the refined, delicate girl walk upto
a group of quarrelling men or boys, and
order them to the right-about as if they had
been children in her school. And the horny-handed

ouvrler who had spent his week's
earnings at the cabaret would take the pipe
out of his mouth and Hasten meekly while she
gave him a good scolding. There was something
of the mother in the genial cruelty with
which she looked them in the face and said
the hard thing to them, and told them they
made her ashamed, or angry, or sorry. Her
anger would be very hot, but it never took
the form of cold displeasure ; she abhorred
cold, cruel cold that hatches hate, the least
touch of whose icy breath is more fatal to
love than the hottest blast of anger. Marguerite's
sympathy was an open fountain,
always flowing ; when the poor went to her
with a grievance, she waxed so indignant
with them that they felt themselves avenged ;
when they took her a sorrow, she pitied them
so tenderly that they left the sling of it
behind them.

One day, after a long morning of hardwork
in the dispensary and the school, Narva,
who was going out with her on a round of
sick visits, said :

'What a tiring life it is that you lead,
Marguerite ! Do you never weary of it ?'

Never for a minute !' was the unhesitating
reply. ' That is the happiness in God's
.service : it may tire one's body, but it keeps
one's heart merry.'

I wish I could think the poor were
grateful to you,' said Narva.

Who says they are not grateful ?' demanded
Marguerite quickly.

It seems to me everybody says it ; it
is the constant complaint of all the good
people who work for the poor that they get
no return.'

What nonsense ! I wonder what sort of
return they expect .-^ If they gave love, the
poor would give them love back ; but they
only give alms, and I don't suppose they
expect the poor to give them back alms '^. It
is so silly of people to be always looking for
gratitude, and then to go about complaining
that they don't get It : the disappointment
sours themselves, and the complaining sours
other people, for nine people out of ten are

ungrateful, and the complaining hits home
and hurts their self-love.'

Narva was amused at this touchiness concerning
the poor which Marguerite displayed
on the slightest provocation. They were
passing by a public-house at the moment.
A sound of voices raised high in altercation
came through the closed door.

I do believe that is Antoine Drex that I
hear!' said Marguerite. She stood to listen,
and at the same moment the door opened,
seniors out a villainous whiff of alcohol and

o

tobacco, and there stood Antoine Drex,
bumper aloft, apostrophizing the company.

Ah ! this is how you keep your promise,
Antoine Drex !' Marguerite called out from
the street.

The big black-bearded man stared open-mouthed,
as if the small figure in the doorway
had been the ghost of his dead wife.
A loud laugh from the spectators showed
their sense of the comical side of the tableau.

They look drunk ; come away,' said
Narva, under her breath.

But Marguerite held her ground intrepidly.
Come out at once, and go home to your
poor old mother,' she called out to the culprit,
who stood sheepishly clutching his bumper
on the counter ; * she is very suffering this
morning, and you ought to be helping her
instead of drinking here

To Narva's amazement, the stalwart
man, who might have crunched up Marguerite
with a finger and thumb, came out
of the cabaret like a docile dog, and walked
on before her. He looked dangerous enough,
Narva thought, for he had been drinking
copiously ; this was clear from his red eyeballs
and swaggering gait, as with clenched
hanging hands he tramped up the street
before them, growling confidentially to the
paving-stones.

Is that the man you wanted them to
guillotine ?' Narva asked, when Antoine was
beyond hearing.

Yes. How I wish they had ! He would
have been safe in purgatory now, instead of
getting drunk at the Chat Botte. Those ten

months they kept him in prison before the
trial put a heart of rage into the poor fellow
that will get him into trouble some day. And
it is hard, for the rage is only suffering in
disguise. It nearly always is with the poor.
Antoine would not hurt anybody. He is so
good to his mother ! Even when he is
drunk he never touches her. And he often
shares his crust with a neighbour poorer than
himself. If I only could keep him out of the
wine-shop !'

The wine-shop is the bane of the poor
everywhere said Narva.

'It is their resource, God help them !
They drink to drown misery. I do believe
he is trying to give me the slip, and steal
into some other cabaret !' She quickened
her step until Antoine turned the right corner
and was out of sight. * Ah, he is gone home,'
she said, in a tone of relief. * There is not
another wine-shop between this and his
lodging.'

Life at La Villette was altogether a strange
experience to Narva. At first the aspect of

the place, its sordid ugliness, was so offensive
to her taste as to be a positive suffering ; but
she soon discovered that this suffering had its
compensations ; underlying the ugliness that
revolted and distressed her, there was a
hidden beauty, grander, nearer to the true
ideal than the aesthetic one that she missed ;
then the laborious courage of the population,
the kindness that springs from a sense of
common privation and mutual need, made an
atmosphere wholesome and genial at once ;
the open acceptance of a hard lot, and the
spectacle of general poverty unredeemed by
any prospect of escape, made her own lot
seem less cruel. She felt, too, more independent
and secure at La Villette than she
had ever done at Chaillot or in the Faubourg
St. Germain. Here she came and went unmolested
; there was nothing shocking to
public opinion in a young girl's walking out
alone. The utter unworldliness of the place,
the absence of any necessity for keeping up
appearances, was in itself a rest. In the early
morning she went out on her little household

errands, and carried home her bread and her
can of milk, or her little basketful of marketing,
and the workmen's wives and daughters, benton
similar errands, wished her good-morning.

As she walked through the slums, where
she was like no other inhabitant of the place,
the people, struck by her stately bearing, her
beautiful pale face, with the great eyes and
the shining hair, used at first to watch her out
of sight as if she had been some strange bird
of gaudy plumage flitting through their dark
region, and brightening it for a moment. Butin
a little while they ceased even to do this.
L'amie de ma soeur Marguerite ' soon established
her right of citizenship, and the title
was a passport to everybody's goodwill.

Narva had pledged her word to Dr.
Schenk that she would not attempt to sing
for a month from the date of her recovery.
Singing lessons were therefore out of the
question. In the meantime some of her
former pupils were taking German lessons.
These gave her a crust of bread, and, what
was almost as necessary, they kept her

occupied. For she was terribly lonely —
more lonely than she had ever been
amidst the snow-fields of Yrakow. There,
she had her mother ; but she was quite
alone now. It was a brood elinor that the
struggle for bare life left her little time to
brood. For body and soul must be kept
together, the fire must be lighted, the bit of
food must be cooked, the room must be
swept, her shabby clothes must be kept
mended, whether Basil was faithful or not,
whether Father Christopher was being
beaten or not, whether the Prince was
cruel or relenting. And in the interval of
home toil there were the lessons. These
German lessons were no pleasure to her,
as the singing lessons had been. They were
a mere drudgery, and she was longing for the
end of the month to set her free to sing, not
alone for the sake of the lessons, but because
the exercise of her glorious powers was in
itself an enjoyment. There was only one
more week now to wait. Then the period of
dumbness would have expired.

Signor Zampa had gone away in despair
on hearing of the illness which had so
suddenly fallen like a thunderbolt on his
brilliant scheme. He had, however, assured
Sibyl that the engagement should hold good
for next season, and that as soon as Narva
was well enough to enter on her preparatory
studies, he should expect her to set out for
Florence.

VOL. II. 24

Narva EXPOUNDS THE GOSPEL OF THIS WORLD.

Marguerite was in the dispensary,
measuring and mixing herbs
from two green canisters, when
Narva came hurriedly in, and going up to
her, laid a hand on her arm ; she seemed
too agitated to speak.

What is the matter ? what has happened ?'
Marguerite asked, dropping her little shovelful
of herbs back into the canister.

I have lost it ! it is gone, clear gone !'
Narva gasped.

The ivory box ? Basil's papers ? Oh !'

No, my voice. I have lost it ! I can't
sing a note.'

She sat down, almost letting herself fall
into a straw chair.

Marguerite clasped her hands.

When did you discover that it was gone?'

^ Just now — not half an hour ago. I had
promised not to sing a note until the month
was out. Yesterday was the last day, and
this morning I went to the piano. Not a
note would come. Oh, it is too dreadful !
too dreadful !'

Marguerite, with an answering despair in
her face, stood silent, her hands still clasped.

Narva looked up, and saw the sweet brown
eyes filling with tears ; she bent forward,
and let her head drop against Marguerite's
arm.

Oh,' she said, ' what a weary burden life
is ! If one might but escape from it !'

Marguerite put her arms round her, and
held her clasped, making a little swaying
movement, as if she were rocking a child.

'It is, darling,' she said softly, after a
moment's silence ; * it is very weary ; but weare
not carrying it alone. There is One

24 — 2

UNlVERSltV f?

under the burden with us whose help can
never fail'

Narva felt the loving breast heave under
her head, and then two hot tears fall upon
her cheek. If Marguerite was so full of
pity, why was Marguerite's God so cruel ?

Perhaps it is not so bad as you think
said Marguerite presently, her sunny hopefulness
and practical sense coming quickly to
the relief. * After all, it may be only a
temporary loss of voice. I knew a case like
that in a young chorister whom we had to
nurse after a typhoid fever ; his voice went
for some months, and he was in despair ; but
it came back. You must see a specialist.

There is Dr. X , who comes to the

infirmary here on Tuesday ; he is a great
authority on the lungs and the throat. I will
speak to Soeur Jeanne and ask her to
arrange for you to see him here after his
visit to the infirmary.'

This practical suggestion was just the
touch that Narva wanted to lift her up from
the torpor of despair into which the shock

had thrown her. She talked it over with
Marguerite, asked questions about the
chorister's case, and if Marguerite strained
the facts a trifle to sustain the hope they
pointed to, the sin was certainly not written
down against her by the recording angel.
Narva went away wonderfully comforted.

The community were at once interested in
her trouble. The children were all set praying
for Soeur Marguerite s friend, and everyone in
the house awaited with anxious curiosity to
hear what Dr. X would say.

They had not long to wait. This was Saturday.
On Tuesday morning the consultation
took place. The result confirmed Marguerite's

sanguine view. Dr. X was of opinion that

the loss of the voice was likely to be only temporary
: the organs were weakened by the
severe inflammation they had suffered, and
rest and care would in time restore their
powers. If Narva had had change to the
country and proper care during the period of
convalescence, the accident would most likely
have been avoided. She was now to think as

little about it as possible, to take any amusement
within her reach, and to follow his
treatment carefully, and he promised that
before long her voice would be as fine as ever.
This verdict was received with joy by the
whole community, to whom it was at once
communicated by the Sister Superior. Marguerite
was almost as thankful as Narva, and
much more demonstrative in her satisfaction,
for she already believed, while Narva still
only dared to hope.

I wish you could have some recreation,
something to take your mind off trouble and
worry,* she said, as she and Narva sat
together in the parlour after the consultation.
What a pity Sibyl is away ! And she won't
stop in Paris on her way from Biarritz to
Carlsbad, it seems ; that is, she will only just
rest for the night.'

I am very thankful to her for keeping out
of the way,' said Narva ; ' it was irksome as
well as odious to me to have to play the
hypocrite with her. And what else can I do
now ?'

There was no denying this.

I almost wish it were the winter that was
at hand, and not the summer,' Marguerite
said ; * then your old pupils would be coming
round you, and you would have your pleasant
little gatherings, as you used to have at
Chaillot/

Narva laughed.

I am not so silly as to expect anything of
that sort up here. I told you before that I
knew my value.'

Your value ? What do you mean ? The
people who were fond of you in one place
would be fond of you in another, I suppose ?'

Yes, if they ever had been fond of me.
But you don't suppose the people who came
after me at Chaillot and made a fuss over me
were fond of me ?'

Then why did they come after you and
make a fuss over you ?'

Narva laughed again.

You heavenly little dunce ! You don't
know the A B C of the gospel of this world.
You have never opened its catechism. You

don't know that contempt of poverty is the
negative side of purse-pride, and that to
patronize poverty is one of the amusements
of the rich. You are a dunce in snobbishness
; you know nothing about the vulgarities
of well-bred people and the cruelties of pious
people. Fond of me ! Poor dears ! they
were fond enough of me to turn in and spend
a pleasant half-hour on their way to the Bois ;
but they would not drive up to this shabby
place to see me. I'm not worth it.'

Then you have no loss in such butterfly
friends,' said Marguerite ; ' there are better
ones in store for you, please God. One must
always reckon on the generous chances of
life.'

The generous chances of life !' Narva
repeated, with a light laugh that was very
acid ; ' the generous chances of life never
come to those who want them. I have found
that out before this.'

I will not have you turning sour, and
looking only at the bad side of life and human
beings,' said Marguerite.

I cannot help It ; my poverty hides the
other side from me. But if it shuts the Hight
out on one side, it lets it in on the other, and
shows the flaws in human beings as a magnus
shows the animalcule in a drop of
water. When you are poor, you see the
world as it really is, with its meanness and
its vulgarities and its cruelties ; people don't
take the trouble to wear a mask before you ;
you are not worth it ; it does not matter if
you see the seamy side of their character ;
but they must take pains to make It show
fair to society. My rich pupils and their
mothers fancied the lessons were all on one
side ; they were mistaken : they taught me
quite as much of their arts as I them of
mine.'

All this may be very clever and sarcastic,'
said Marguerite, ' but it strikes me It
is morbid, and not very charitable. It Is of
no use to discover our neighbours' faults unless
it helps us to correct our own. There Is
the bell ! I must go to the children's singing
class.'

I wish you would take me in hand, Marguerite,
and correct me and make me good !'
said Narva. ' I should like to be one of
your orphans, and sit on a bench, and have
you to teach me to sing canticles, and scold
me when I was naughty.'

I'm afraid I should be scolding you from
morning till night,' said Marguerite, tossing
her head ; ' you would never obey me without
wanting to know the why and the wherefore
of everything.'

She put the canisters in their place, and
hurried off to the singing-class.

Narva watched her crossing the court, her
step so brisk, her whole air breathing the content
of a life brimful of glad activities.

Why cannot I have a vocation,' Narva
thought, ' and join these brave women, and
make my life a service of love for humanity .'*'

She sighed ; but she went home with a
lightened heart, as she generally did from
Marguerite's companionship.

THE DOWNWARD STEP.

N reaching home Narva saw a
man standing in the dark entry
with the bell-rope of her door in
his hand. At the first glance she did not
recognise him : it was Ivan GorfF.

She uttered an exclamation of welcoming
surprise, and they went in together.

Where have you come from ?' she
asked excitedly, when she had closed the
door.

From everywhere.'

Not from St. Petersburg ?'

St. Petersburg is somewhere, is it not ?'
Ivan said, and his face, that looked very

haggard, was momentarily brightened by one
of his old frank smiles.

Narva saw there was no bad news, so she
inquired after his health. He shrugged his
shoulders, as if the question were not worth
either asking or answering.

I saw Basil a fortnight ago,' he said,
taking compassion on her ; ' he is well, and
he is growing in wisdom ; I might almost
say in grace, for he has taken the line of
trying to circumvent the Prince by playing a
waiting game, begging for time, and laying
aside the defiant tone he had been fool
enough to adopt a few months ago. So
there is an end to Kronstadt.'

Thank heaven for that !' said Narva ;
but when is there going to be an end ol
the rest, I wonder ? When will he be
free ? Will he ever be free ?'

Ivan smiled, rubbed his palms together,
and bent closer to her.

I will tell you a secret,' he said, dropping
his voice to a confidential undertone ; ' there
is a talk of the Emperor coming to pay a

visit to his good brother of Berlin, and
Prince Zorokoff is to accompany him, leaving
Basil behind, well watched, of course ; but
we may outbid him, or we may outwit the

police. I have a plan ' He chuckled,

and squeezed his flattened hands between
his knees as if he would have crushed them.

Narva held her breath ; she could hardly
trust herself to clutch at this splendid hope.

Yes,' Ivan continued, enjoying the effect
he was producing ; ' we must smuggle him
out across the Austrian frontier ; then he
will be safe ; let them catch him if they can !
It has been a good thing, this time he has
spent at St. Petersburg ; it has opened his
eyes, and fitted him for the work that has to
be done. When he was called back and put
into a court dress he was in despair. He
said : " I had rather they sent me to Siberia
to work naked at the gold picking ! If one
must be a slave, it is better to be naked than
to be in livery ; naked, one is nearer to
being a man." But it was a good thing
they put him in livery ; it made him feel

how the livery galls and pinches and degrades
a man ; it has made him believe what
he heard. He now knows what a devil's
workshop a court is. He has seen what an
open door into hell it is. He now sees that
the only thing to do is to burn it down, and
scatter the dust of it to the winds of heaven.
He has carried the war into the enemy's
country ; he has done wonders for the cause :
his brain is a forge where the iron is made
hot, and his pen a hammer that beats it and
sends the sparks flying in every direction ;
his hand has grown strong and his nerves
tough, and his arm knows where to reach.'

Ivan clenched his own hand and straightened
out his massive arm threateningly. He
had grown excited as he went on, till his
voice was hoarse, and murderous hate was
visible in every line of his haggard face, and
he was horrible to look at.

Narva knew not what to make of it. The
sudden outbreaking^ of fierce passion was the
more startling from its contrast with his
habitual quiet bonhomie; she had never

dreamed of such fires smouldering beneath
the surface of Ivan's gentle nature ; she admired
the strength that It revealed, but she
was conscious of a recoil from him ; a kind of
chill horror crept over her, as If she were
being forced into tacit complicity with some
criminal conspiracy, or some deed of blood.

He, concentrated in his own passion, had
not noticed its effect upon her ; but her long
silence, after he had done speaking, recalled
him to himself.

• Tell me about you,' he said, turning to
her, and his countenance changed suddenly,
as If he had thrown off a disfiguring mask.
Why did you come to this out-of-the-way
place ? What are you doing up here ?'

She answered his inquiries by giving him
the history of all that had happened since
they met ; for he had left Paris just as she
was pronounced out of danger ; he had
heard of her recovery from Schenk ; but
beyond that he knew nothing.

You are with us at heart,' he said, when
she had finished ; ' why not be with us inaction

? You said you were ready for any
work that your hands or head could do.'

^ What work can they do ?' Narva asked,
in vague alarm.

You could translate for us. Instead of
starving on the drudgery of lessons, you
might earn an easy livelihood by translating
our circulars and pamphlets from Russian
and German into French. We can pay well
for good service, and I could keep you supplied
with work.'

He plunged his hand into a capacious
breast-pocket, pulled out a roll of manuscript,
unfolded it, and deliberately flattened it out
on his knee.

Narva suddenly changed colour.

That is Basil's writing !' she cried, putting
out her hand to seize the paper.

^ It is his writing, and it is his composition.
I risked my head in travelling with it. If it
had been found, it would have been as good
as a charge of dynamite under my chair.'

He handed her the paper.

Narva devoured the well-known writing

with hungry eyes ; It was almost like seeing
Basil himself, like touching his hand.

Ivan's face, as he watched her, reflected
transparently the battle of courage against
pain that was being fought out within him ;
his brow contracted, while a smile of infantine
hilarity made his eyes shine. After
watching her for a moment he looked away,
as if he could bear it no longer.

There is to be a meeting on the 15th,'
he said, fumbling in his pockets, ' and I want
to have that ready to distribute at it ; so set
to work and translate it at once. By the
way, why should not you come to this meeting
? You would learn something of what is
being done ; you would hear what Basil is
doing, and see the position he holds among
us.'

I should like greatly to go,* Narva said,
looking up from the manuscript with a
certain hesitation.

Her will was, in truth, pulled by opposite
forces of terror and desire ; she longed to be
useful in the cause for which Basil was risk-vol.

II. 2 ^

ing his life and liberty, but she shrank before
the mystery that hung like a black curtain
between her and the means and agencies it
employed. Who were these people she was
going to associate herself with ? Desperadoes,
probably, who shrank from nothing.
Still, if they were Basil's fellow-workers

I will come and fetch you said Ivan, his
quick eye detecting the conflict in her mind ;
we can go in together, and you can come
away whenever you feel inclined. We shan't
be more than a few score.'

And so it was settled that she would go.

THE MEETING IN THE QUARTIER LATIN.

HE meeting was to be held in
the Quartier Latin, close to the
Russian Library. On the appointed
evening Ivan called for Narva, and
they drove there in a cab. It drew up
before an old-fashioned gateway, and Ivan
led the way up a dark, slippery stair to an
entresol, where they entered a low-ceiled
room lighted with gas. The artificial glare,
after the golden light of the summer evening,
had a sinister effect, and lent an additional
air of mystery to the place and the opportunity,
which impressed Narva's excited
imagination

25—2

There were about a dozen persons already
present, some of them women. Every eye
was turned on her, and the women looked
eager to claim acquaintance ; but Ivan Gorff,
after exchanging greetings with the men he
knew, sat down beside her, placing his chair
so as to barricade her against approach, and
then engaged her In confidential talk. The
room filled quickly. Still they seemed to be
waiting for some one who had not yet
arrived. Presently the door opened, and
Dr. Schenk appeared.

It was not a pleasant surprise to Narva ;
but It was not as disagreeable as it might
have been under other circumstances. She
did not like Schenk, though she was grateful
to him, with limitations, for the care he had
taken of her in her illness ; but she was glad
to see him make his way round and take a
seat beside her. His presence seemed a protection.
Never had she found herself amidst
such an assembly of vulgar, vicious, desperate-looking
human beings as those who composed
this meeting. The first impression of mistrust

was gradually giving way to one of
horror and amazement.

They were all talking at the top of their
voices, gesticulating in an excited manner ;
they seemed to be discussing every subject
under the sun, if incoherent remarks and
wild rant could be called discussion ; it was
difficult to believe such an assembly could
have any serious purpose in view, or that
the members were capable of wise and concerted
action. When it was ascertained that
the meeting was full, the door was locked,
and someone stamped on the floor, and then
knocked on the table, and clamoured for
silence in order that the speaking might
begin.

The first speaker was an elderly Russian,
a tall, massively built man, with a quantity
of black beard growing all over his face, and
through which his sharp, rat-like eyes and
exceedingly red nose peered like live things
through a jungle. He read some reports
from distant members, scarcely intelligible
to Narva, but evidently of interest to the

company. The speaker alluded proudly to
his having been fifteen years at the hulks — a
fact which evidently gave him a standing, as
one entitled by experience to hold a heavy
brief against the tyrants. The time had
come, he said, for overturning that great
collective tyrant called Society, and the
work demanded stout hearts and steady
hands. The stamping and applause which
emphasized this remark left no doubt as to
the readiness of the hearts and hands of the
company.

Those,' continued the speaker, when
quiet was restored, ' who possess what by
right belongs to humanity call our work
crime, and hunt us down. But if we are
guilty, who are the true criminals ? If our
deeds are bloody, on whose head will be the
blood we shed ? They goad us to madness,
and when we strike in self-defence they callus
robbers and assassins ; they murder us in
the name of justice !'

The old convict went ranting on in the
same style, his voice growing louder as he

proceeded, until it reached a shout ; his
gestures, at first heavy and emphatic, grew
rapid and vehement, till his Herculean arms
leaped and lashed about like the wings of
a mill blown this way and that by contrary
winds.

Ivan Gorff joined in the general applause,
laughing and clapping hands as if the whole
thing had been a clever farce. Schenk sat
with his arms crossed, impassive and silent.

The next speaker represented a very different
type. He also was Russian, but young
(about thirty), with a battered, consumptive
countenance, and faded blond colouring.
He was nobly born, had ruined himself by
gambling, and been driven from sheer want
into the business of patriotism ; but he
attributed his misfortune to the evil influences
of the court (he had once succeeded
in getting an invitation to a state ball at the
Winter Palace), and felt that his mission was
to denounce the foul corruption of courts and
the vices of kings, and to serve the noble
cause of revolution by holding himself up as

an awful example. He was Interrupted by
fits of coughing, and the intervals were filled
with frantic applause from the meeting.

• It is some consolation to know he continued,
* that others are carrying on the war
in the very heart of the citadel, and fighting
in the foul atmosphere of courts against those
infernal agencies. One of our countrymen
is giving a glorious example of self-sacrifice
and courage in propagating the gospel of
hate under the roof of the tyrant, and mining
the ground under his feet. My friend and
heroic brother in arms, Basil Zorokoff '

A faint, inarticulate cry from a corner of
the room was instantly drowned in a loud
and prolonged burst of applause from Ivan
Gorff, and this was the signal for a general
storm of enthusiasm, before which the consumptive
speaker, already exhausted, collapsed.


The hubbub might have lasted indefinitely,
if Schenk had not risen, and, with one hand
in his breast, and the other uplifted to command
silence, made evident his intention to

speak. The effect was immediate. The
clamorous tongues were hushed, and silence
reigned in the room. Schenk spoke with a
quiet power that was impressive ; his accent
was slightly German ; his voice clear and
distinct ; his speech simple and direct, like
that of a man who is too sure of the strength
of his subject to care to borrow any aid from
rhetoric or gesticulation.

We are a company of martyrs he said,
self-elected victims in the great cause of
Humanity. Let every man keep this grand
ideal well before him. Our duty is to annihilate
self in the service of the general
good. The claims of the universal brotherhood
must swallow up every other claim.
Every creed and code and prejudice must
succumb at their bidding. In the interests
of our noble cause we must be ready, at midday
or at midnight, to sacrifice self. We
must be ready to do and to suffer things
hard and vile and hideous. The men and
women who join us must hold their lives in
thei-r hands, and be ready to fling them away

at an hour's notice. They must consent to
trample under foot what the world calls
honour, and to renounce the slavish superstition
of its so-called moral law. They must
be strong enough to lie without blenching in
the interests of their brethren, and to strike
with a steady aim when the good of the
cause demands a tyrant's death. They must,
in a word, give their tongue for a sword, and
their right hand for a dagger, to be used
whenever the sacred cause of Humanity
demands it. They must be prepared to
suffer hunger and thirst, to endure heat and
cold, to give their flesh to the iron and the
scourge, and their good name to the dogs ;
to be accursed by their kindred ; to be accounted
infamous by the good and virtuous ;
to be alone in life and in death. All this,
they who cast in their lot with us must be
ready to accept. If there be any among us
whose spirit quails before the prospect, let
him go no farther, but leave us before It Is
too late. Let no man or woman who cannot
face with unflinching nerve the Issues that

await us, run the risk of betraying the
cause, and incurring the traitor's death.'

Schenk paused, as if waiting for an answer.
It came in a loud shout of assent from every
side. With a quiet gesture he imposed
silence, and went on :

If we are all sure of ourselves, we need
fear nothing. No man can hurt us. They
can do no more than kill us, and we are
willing to be killed. However black in the
eyes of men, we are white and clean before
heaven and our own conscience. And we
stand all equal as servants in the grand cause.
The lowest among us who runs the same
risks, deserves the same honour as the Prince
who is working in the high places. The only
standard we recognise is patriotism ; the value
of each man is measured by the service he
renders to the general cause.'

Schenk then proceeded to read letters and
reports. But Narva did not hear them. She
was reeling from the blow that his speech had
dealt her ; she felt like a person who had been
led blindfold into a quagmire, and who, when

the bandage was removed, saw no way out of
it. What could Ivan's motive have been in
leading her into such a place ? He had,
indeed, prepared her vaguely by mysterious
hints ; but she never dreamed of anything so
reckless of morality as this policy expounded
by Schenk. And it looked as if Schenk
had seized with avidity the opportunity of
lighting up the depths of the abyss on the
brink of which she stood, and showing her
what kind of solidarity she incurred and what
risks she ran in throwing in her lot with him
and his associates. And these men were
Basil's friends! It was impossible! Yet
there was his pamphlet . . . True, it did not
contain anything like Schenk's cold-blooded
gospel of crime ; it was only an eloquent
appeal to his countrymen to rise and assert
their dignity as men, and their freedom as
citizens ; it dealt with abstract ideas and
principles.

Narva in her bewilderment could not,
perhaps would not, see that Schenk's concrete
code was only the logical outcome of Basil's

abstract principles. Suddenly the thought of
Larchoff flashed through her mind : she felt
sick with doubt and terror.

Schenk sat down, and then Olga Borzidoff
rose to speak. This woman was a friend of
Dr. Schenk's, and had kept her eyes on
Narva from the first with a glance which, if
Narva had noticed it, would have frightened
her more than anything she had seen or
heard at the meeting. Olga Borzidoff, after
draining the cup of pleasure to the dregs, had
taken to the game of patriotism in search of
a new sensation ; but she played badly, got
caught, and only escaped with her life owing
to a timely warning from one of the Emperor's
aides-de-camp. Her fortune was confiscated,
but the sale of her jewels gave her an income
which enabled her to play the grande dame
amongst the bankrupt pariahs into whose
society she had sunk. She had once been
handsome, but now, at forty, she was a bold,
hard-featured, painted coquette.

She opened her speech by an attack on
men, denouncing the despotism they exercise

over women, and declaring that the
emancipation of her sex must be a prelude to
the emancipation of her country and mankind,
and that her efforts and those of her
sisters should tend in that direction. A
violent, ranting rigmarole.

After this shrieking sister, a pale-faced,
blue-eyed German stood up. She acknowledged
that she was a woman, timid and
cowardly, and, therefore, had no right to put
herself forward ; still, trusting to the chivalrous
indulgence of the stronger sex, she
dared to lift up her voice and adjure them to
make haste in their grand mission of social
reform. Their action had hitherto been
circumscribed by scruples of compassion
which were in reality the promptings of
cowardice. They shrank from sacrificing
harmless men and women, forgetting that
the death of one tyrant was such a gain to
humanity as to be cheaply bought by the
sacrifice of a thousand lives ; it would benefit
millions yet unborn. Let this thought
nerve their arm for the slaughter that must

be accomplished if the world was to be
cleansed of the race of tyrants and aristocrats,
etc., etc., etc.

The blue-eyed woman's voice had a lachrymose
tremble in it that was full of pathos.
It reminded Narva of the serpent beseeching
Eve to eat to the death of the human race.

Several other speakers followed, chiefly
French, all young men, evidently of the
dSclassd type. One after another they stood
up and raved and ranted ; they were full of
their own importance, ready for any enterprise,
absolutely reckless of consequences ;
light-headed fools, seemingly more hungry
and discontented than wicked ; a wonderful
company to undertake the redemption of
their respective nations.

Ivan Gorff had not spoken, except that
short parley improvised to screen Narva
when she had nearly betrayed herself. He
rose now, and said he had something to
communicate before they separated. There
was a general assent, and he proceeded to
read out, in his deep, metallic voice, Basil's

pamphlet translated. The effect was electric.
The language had seemed inspiring to
Narva when she read it alone ; but declaimed
by Ivan to this excited and responsive
audience, its eloquence was like fire and
dancing flames. The reading was all along
punctuated by ' bravos ' and suppressed
cheers. The meeting could hardly restrain
its enthusiasm within bounds, and the moment
Ivan had done, the applause burst out
like a torrent let loose. The pamphlets were
seized upon as if they had been loaves of
bread thrown to starving men ; the company
embraced one another ; they kissed the
pamphlet ; they made every demonstration
of wild delight.

Under cover of the general hubbub, Ivan
said to Narva :

Let us slip away.'

Dr. Schenk, who was before her, moved
on at once ; and Olga Borzidoff, whose eyes
had never left the group, pushed quickly
towards the door and met them.

Present us to one another she said to

Schenk, putting her hand on his arm ; but
Schenk moved on as if he had not heard.
Let us introduce ourselves,' said Olga. * I
am Olga Borzidoff. What is our new sister's
name ?'

Narva Larks replied the new sister
coldly.

Ivan pushed her gently on, remarking that
it was later than he thought. It was pitch-dark
on the stairs. Schenk struck a match,
and nursed the little flame, that Narva
might see where to step ; but the light, after
a moment, went out.

Take my arm,' said Schenk. ' I know
the way. I will guide you.'

They were groping their way, Ivan following,
when a hand was laid on his shoulder,
and a woman's voice said :

I want a word with you.'
He stood at her bidding.

Narva got safe down, thanks to Schenectady
guidance. When they emerged into
the court below the moon was high, and the
dark blue heaven was full of stars.

VOL. II. 26

Here we are, a riveted le stella /' he said,
drawing a deep breath.

In spite of the horror with which his
speech had so lately inspired her, Narva fora
moment felt in sympathy with him ; the
beautiful quotation seemed to strike a sttrsitm
corda that lifted her spirit out of the dense
atmosphere in which she had been morally
and physically stifling.

They stood and looked back, expecting
Ivan to follow ; but he did not appear, and
the others were hurrying down.

'We had better not wait here,' said
Schenk. ' Come on, and I will put you
into a cab.'

They went out, and he hailed one, and
assisted Narva into it. As he was closing
the door upon her, he said :

It is very late for you to go such a long
drive alone ; you had better let me see you
home.'

And without waiting for her answer, he
jumped in beside her.

Neither of them broke silence until they

alighted at Narva's door. Then Schenk
wished her good-night, and walked away in
the starlight.

Narva went in and locked her door ; then,
throwing aside her bonnet and mantle, she
opened the window wide, and began to walk
up and down the room with the nervous but
determined step of one who is struggling by-bodily
movement to escape from the lingering
clutch of a nightmare.

Good God !' she cried out loud to herself,
has Basil adopted these devilish principles ?
Is he working with these men?' The thought
of it made her sick. She seemed to hear
that poor dissipated-looking rout exclaiming,
Basil Zorokoff, my friend and brother-in-arms
!' . . . Schenk's words kept sounding
in her ears : ' Those who join us must be
prepared to throw their good name to the
dogs . to lie without blenching ; to kill
when they are commanded. . . .'

Narva took her forehead in both hands as
if to crush out the thoughts that were making
it burn and throb. After a while, she grew

26 — 2

dizzy from measuring the short tether of the
room, and sat down by the open window.
She felt Hke a lonely creature caught in a
trap, and shut out from all chance of rescue.
Perhaps Basil felt something like this ? If
he had committed himself to these doctrines,
and linked himself with these men, he had
most assuredly been entrapped into it unawares,
just as she had been entrapped into
attending the meeting to-night. What could
have induced Ivan to take her there, unless
he wanted to inspire her with disgust for the
whole thing ? And Schenk too, brutally
parading before her the naked horror of the
cause and the system she had blindly
espoused ! Was it with a view to warning
her ? Or was it to make her feel that she
was in his power ?

There was something altogether Sphinx-like
about Schenk ; something mysterious
that by turns fascinated and repulsed her.
The antipathy she felt towards him at moments
amounted to positive loathing ; and
then again, he drew her to him by a strong

compelling power, half mental, half moral ;
his intellectual refinement, his strength of
character, his supreme, though misguided,
spirit of self-sacrifice, commanded her admiration.
And Basil's was just the nature to be
attracted by these gifts, and to be seduced by
the glamour of false heroism that Schenk
threw over his monstrous theories; it sounded
so sublime, this counting for nothing the
failure of the individual effort, the ruin of
the personal life, where the grand impersonal
ambition was to be served ! It all looked
beautiful in the distance ; but Narva had
come near enough to see through the
glamour into the horrible corruption that
lay beneath it.

She had been dreaming all her life of a
grand revolution which was to set Russia
free, and sweep away the tyrannies and
turpitude that were weighing down her
people. This she knew could not be accomplished
without violence ; but violence in a
just cause was justified ; bloodshedding was
inevitable in every revolution. She accepted

this condition in the abstract, without dwelling
much on circumstance or degree ; but
she had never contemplated abolishing the
moral law and honour and truth as ' slavish
superstition.' This was diabolical. There
was no cohesive element in such doctrines
as these. They were murderous and suicidal;
they could destroy and annihilate ; but they
could generate nothing. Was there, then,
no outlook anywhere else ? For if not,
Narva saw nothing but Despair to cling to.
And Despair was the door into madness.
She seemed to be standing very close to
that door at this moment. Her thoughts,
her feelings, the past and the present, were
all a tumult of chaos. Many voices were
crying out in discordant strife within her,
like an orchestra of instruments all attuned
to different keys, and each trying to out-scream
the other.

If Death, not Life, was the conquering
power of this world, what was the good of
struggling ? Better give it up, and lie down
and die at once. No efforts of mortal man

could avail against Death. And if the
creation of Humanity was a tragic failure,
all endeavours to mend it could only be a
series of failures, less fatal, but equally
barren. Such a creed was enough to drive
men mad. If it spread, Russia was fated to
become one vast madhouse. And yet the
men who held this insane creed seemed to
be the only ones who were in earnest about
life ; the only ones who believed in the regeneration
of their country, and who were
brave enough to suffer and toil for its accomplishment.
How could they suffer without
hope, and not go mad ? The wonder was
that generations of inherited despair had not
destroyed the reason of the Russian people
long ago. A still greater wonder was that it
was only now betraying their faith ; that they
had been content to bear their cruel doom
through the centuries, muttering in their
hearts, * If God were not so high above us,
and the Czar so far away !'

It was only yesterday the people had
waked up from the lethargy of this blind

superstition, and begun to ask : ' Why is all
this allowed to go on ? Why should we,
millions, continue for ever tortured and downtrodden
under the reign of an omnipotent
God who claims to be the God of Mercy
and of Love ?'

This dreadful ' why,' which had long been
uttering itself in Narva's heart, was clamouring
in her brain now until she almost fancied
she was going mad herself. There was
neither sequence nor logic in the way the
question repeated itself, or in the answers
that arose confusedly to quiet her. She sat
on at the open window until the night air
chilled her, and the dark street grew silent
as a graveyard, and the stars faded out of
the sky. Then she shut the window, and,
shivering, threw herself on her bed, and tried
to fall asleep.

GOLD IN THE DROSS.

HE meetings in the Quartier Latin
had one good effect on Narva :
it forced her thoughts into a new
channel, and made it easier for her to obey
the doctor's injunction of thinking as little as
possible about her lost voice. That extraordinary
scene, and the sudden and dangerous
current it had introduced into her life,
absorbed her so completely that all other
thoughts were for the moment crowded out
of sight. But she felt mere alone since her
solitude had become peopled by this multitude
of unbidden presences. A new sense
of loneliness, of isolation, came to her with

the longing to discount these too vivid
emotions, to silence these haunting revelations
and shadowy presentments by sharing
them with some one whom she could trust,
and who would understand, whose sympathy
or whose contradiction, whose indignant
denunciation even, might help her to adjust
the balance of things, and bring them to
their true proportion. It is so much harder
to battle through these spectral crowds
alone !

Narva tried to escape from her beleaguered
solitude by occupying herself, and being as
much as possible out of doors. One of the
few helpful recreations within her reach was
a visit to the Louvre. She took the omnibus
one morning and drove there. The serene
atmosphere of the galleries soothed her, the
brooding presence of the dead masters, who
were still so living, exorcised the evil spirits
and scared them away. She had never held
a brush, but her delight in the art was
genuine. She loved some of the pictures as
if they were living persons who felt her

enthusiasm, and might be touched by it ;
sometimes it almost seemed to her that she
might awake, or trouble the sleep of the
dead painters in being so deeply moved by
their inspired renderings. She lingered long
before them to-day, and though tired physically
from standing about so many hours,
she left the place, refreshed and rested inspirit.


She was turning into the Tuileries gardens,
when a gentleman, hurrying out, met her.
It was Dr. Schenk. Narva had not seen
either him or Ivan Gorff since the meeting.


I am so glad to meet you !' he said
cordially ; ' shall we sit down and chat fora
moment ?'

There was a bench close by, under the
broad shade of a chestnut-tree. Narva was
not sorry to sit down and rest a little.

I need not ask what you thought of the
company the other evening,' Schenk said,
entering at once on the subject.

Narva's level brows went up expressively.

It was not so much the company, even,
as the doctrines, that took me by surprise
she answered.

You were not prepared to find them so
advanced ? Ivan ought to have been more
outspoken and explicit with you. You were
hardly strong enough to bear the shock of
being brought in contact with the reality so
suddenly. I took for granted that you had
come there with your eyes open, and I was
surprised to see you, I confess. However,
as you have been taken behind the curtain,
you must just accept the fact that there is an
ugly side to patriotism when it has to work
in secret. But though the patriotism that
goes forth to the roll of drums and the braying
of trumpets looks a more respectable
thing, it is far less worthy in reality than
ours that gets no reward but scorn and
stripes ; we at least despise the conventional
fallacy that goes by the name of honour ; we
trample that cant and the rest of the world's
jugglery and caricaturing under our feet,
and we bring on ourselves the odium of the

result for a purely impersonal gain. I perceive
you have a great deal to learn as to
our principle of action,' he added, reading,
with his habitual intuition, on Narva's
features the conflict between utter revulsion
and reluctant admiration that he was exciting"
in her ; ' you have taken a perilous step in
joining us, but you will trust me and let me
be your friend '

I hope our new sister will trust us all as
friends,' said a woman's voice behind them.

Before turning round to see who it was,
Narva had recognised Olga Borzidoff. She
started and coloured. Schenk stood up.

What brings you here }' he said, in a
low tone that had something dangerously
fierce in it.

Precisely what brings you here,' she
replied, in a high, insolent key ; ' the desire
to converse with Mademoiselle Larik.'

I had business to discuss with mademoiselle.'


So have I. Perhaps you won't mind our
discussing it together T

Good-morning, monsieur,' said Narva,
and quivering with anger and wounded pride,
she walked away.

That bold, bad woman's stare was like

the touch of an unclean thing. She could

not forgive Ivan Gorff for subjecting her to

the humiliation of such a contact. Why had

he entrapped her so treacherously into this

secret congregation of disreputable men and

women ? What sort of good were such

people capable of effecting for their country ?

And Basil was workings in common with

< >

them ! . . .

All the way to La Villette, as the omnibus
rolled along, Narva protested inwardly
against this unworthy comradeship, and upbraided
Ivan Gorff. But on reaching home
she found that Ivan had called, and left a
sealed parcel for her. She opened it, and
saw Basil's handwriting. In an instant all
her anger vanished, and she could feel
nothing but gratitude towards the man who
had brought this joy into her life.

She sat down and devoured the manuscript.

It was just what she wanted to
restore her wounded self respect and reconcile
her to the irreconcilable. The article
was a powerful and impassioned piece of
writing ; but it remained, like the preceding
one, in the abstract, dealing with principles,
and enlarging on the effect of tyranny upon
the moral nature of a people. Here was
the wisdom, the sagacity, the courage, the
dominant mind of the true patriot ! This
was the gold in the dross. Narva set to
work at once on the translation, happy in
the consciousness that she was putting her
hand to the plough with Basil, and driving
the share through the smoking soil, while he
cast the seed into the furrow.

SIBYL MAKES ACQUAINTANCE WITH LA VILLETTE.

ARK A had not been to see Marguerite
since the meeting. If
anyone had asked her why, she
would have said it was because she had been
busy, or absent at Marguerite's convenient
hours for seeing her. But the true, though
unacknowledged, reason was that she shrank
from the contact. Marguerite's pure and
uncompromising orthodoxy somehow always
rebuked her like a living conscience ; and
now that her mind had become tainted with
guilty knowledge, and was tacitly, half-consciously,
conniving at it, she did not dare
intrude herself on a life filled from morning

till night with placid sanctities, sweet and
common as daisies in the grass, and wholesome
as a field of new-mown hay. She was
afraid to meet those true, innocent eyes that
were bubbling up with happiness and trust in
God and man, like clear fountains in the sunlight.
She avoided Marguerite since she had
set her foot upon the downward path — for
Narva knew that it was a downward path.
Those articles of Basil's had fanned the flame
of her love and fired her imagination, but
they had not blinded her reason. She saw
clearly enough the logical link between those
blood-stirring appeals and the doctrines enunciated
at the meeting, so she stayed away.

Marguerite, meantime, was too busy to goto
people who were able to come to her. She
heard from Madame Blaquette that Narva
was well and out every day, and this was
enough. She had, moreover, heavier cares
than usual pressing on her for the moment.
La Villette was * nervous ' ; in other words, it
was making ready for a revolution. The
elders of the Sisterhood, enlightened by past

VOL. II. 27

experiences, recognised signs and symbols
which Marguerite's quick intuition could not
have failed, even without this warning, to
notice ; the district echoed with sounds
and silences that were not to be mistaken ;
the wine-shops were crowded late and early,
and through their closed doors there came
reverberations of that alcoholic oratory which
to the Parisian onvrier is like a lighted match
put to powder. A more significant sign to
Marguerite was that the orators avoided her.
She noticed that men, who habitually meet her
with a bright kindly word, now turned round
the corner when they saw her in the distance,
or, if they came up with her unexpectedly,
hurried on with a curt salutation. Clearly
they were fighting shy of her, and she read
the reason in their sullen averted faces, and
in the troubled eyes of the women.

Madame Blaquette, whom Narva frequently
met coming in and out, seemed
much alarmed, and hinted at some great
impending catastrophe ; but Madame Blab
was so well known as a croaker and

an alarmist that no one paid any heed to what
she said. One afternoon she came against
Narva in the entry, and clutched her arm in
great excitement.

Oh, mademoiselle, we have had the
narrowest escape ! Just think ! The house
opposite is watched by the police, and such
odd-looking people have been hanging about !
Three days back, a box was brought to a
man who lodged there a month ago. They
wouldn't take it in, so the porter carried it
over here, and said if I kept it for a couple of
days it would be called for. I, never suspecting
anything, took it into my room, and
this morning it suddenly occurred to me that
it might be an infernal machine !'

Oh !' cried Narva, with a gesture of
dismay.

I went off at once to the commissaire de
police, and he went to the Prefecture, and
three men came just now and carried it into
the backyard, and took all sorts of precautions
in opening it, for if it had exploded, you know,
the whole street would have been blown up !'

27 — 2

But it didn't explode ?'

Oh no ; it was a sewing-machine. But
only think if it had been the other !'

But it wasn't the other,' said Narva, half
amused, and half vexed at having been so
taken in.

All the same, we have had a most
merciful escape !' insisted Madame Blaquette,
for it might have been the other, and I
might have been buried at this moment
under the ruins of my own roof. We ought
to be on our knees thanking God !'

Narva, with an impatient shrug, passed on,
laughing, into her room. As she took off
her things she looked out at the house
opposite. It was a dingy, disreputable-looking
house, with a battered face, and windows
so crusted with dirt you could not have seen
through them — a house that looked as If it
might want watching ; but probably there
was as much foundation for its bad character
as for the providential escape from the
sewing-machine.

She was turning from the window, when

her attention was attracted by an unusual
movement outside ; a number oi gamins were
rushing to stare at something ; presently an
Ojjen carriage with liveried servants drew up
before her door. Flushed and excited, Narva
opened her door, and waited to receive Sibyl.

Oh, my darling, what a funny place you
have come to !' exclaimed Sibyl, looking
round her with a bewildered air.

Yes,' said Narva, with a constrained
laugh, ' It Is a funny place for you to come to
pay a visit. I wonder what your servant
think of it ?'

My servants ? 1 should as soon think
of wondering what my horses thought of
it!'

Narva laughed again.

Yes,' she said within herself, ' horses and
servants are the same sort of cattle to you,
only with different prices.'

They sat down, Sibyl glancing round her
with a kind of half-alarmed curiosity.

Do you know, I am very angry with you,'
she said. ' What business had you to steal a

march on me, and come off to this outlandish
place the moment my back was turned ?'

I was obliged to come away ; I could not
remain where I was.'

You might have gone down to Beaucrillon
and waited there. Have you made a vow
never to come and stay with me ?'

Narva made no answer for a moment.
Then, looking at Sibyl with an expression
half grave, half comical :

Do you remember,' she said, ' how we
laughed long ago over that remark of Madame
de Steel's, that a woman who was unhappy
with her husband ought never to leave him,
because it made it so much worse for her
when she had to come back to him .'^'

Where is the husband here .^' said Sibyl,
glancing round as if she half expected to see
him hiding somewhere ; ' have you gone and
married unbeknown to me ?'

The husband is only a figure,' replied
Narva. ' The fact is, the contrast between
my life and yours is too great ; the charm and
splendour of your home make the hurry-scurry

and sordid vulgarities of my own look
worse to me. I have made up my mind not
to risk it, not to try to snatch at what has
been so completely taken from me. It is
much better for me to stay in my own corner,
and toil and moil, and never try to escape
and put on my silk gown and sit idle like a
lady. I feel such a sham when I go to you
and play the lady !'

What nonsense you are talking ! You
are a sham when you try not to play the
lady, as you call it. Your ladyhood is as
inalienable as the shape of your eyes, or the
colour of your hair. I don't know what you
mean by sordid vulgarity ; a life of intellectual
labour is not sordid or vulgar. It has
always seemed to me a grand thing to owe
everything to one's self. I should have been
very proud if I could have earned my own
living.'

The sentiment was sublimely absurd in
Sibyl's mouth, and yet it did Narva good
to hear her speak so. It raised her in her
own eyes to hear Sibyl say that working

for bread was a grand thing. There was still
a virtue in Sibyl's touch that was like nothing
else.

They talked about other things, and then
Sibyl said :

And Marguerite ? You see her often ?
How is she ?'

I hope she is well, for she works like a
little pony. She is goodness itself to me.'

I am so glad, darling ! But Marguerite
is an angel.'

I knew that already ; but since I came up
here I have discovered that she is a genius.
She would have made a first-rate queen. She
has a genius for governing. If you could see
how she manages the roughs and the drunkards
! And the people positively worship
her ; there are all sorts of stories abroad
about the miracles Soeur Marguerite works ;
how she multiplies the soup and the rations
beyond all natural explanation. Where she
gets the money for all she gives away in
food and clothing is certainly a kind of
miracle.'

Oh, she is not a bad beggar !' said Sibyl,
laughing ; * her genius extends in that direction
too, I can tell you ! I must go in and
see her on my way home Then, taking
Narva s hand in her own : ' But tell me about
your voice, dearest ?' she said anxiously. ' I
have been haunted by the thought ever since
I heard from Marguerite that you had lost it.
How I did long to fly to you that moment,
and hold your hand while you were passing
through the terrible anguish of the first discovery
! But it is sure to come back. Have
you tried it since then ?'

Before Narva could answer, there was a
quick tap at the window, which was only a
few feet from the ground outside, and something
like a great white wing fluttered past.

It is Marguerite !' said Narva ; and,
doubly glad of the interruption, she went tolet
her in.

The corvette seemed to bring in the sunshine
with it.

I guessed who was responsible for the
scandal of a powdered flunky in this respectable

neighbourhood,' said Marguerite. * Whoever
thought of your ladyship's being in
town at this time of year ? Business ? Well,
Narva is not so badly off, you see !' and she
glanced admiringly round the room, in which,
in spite of its tiled floor and whitewashed
walls, the grand piano under its rich embroidered
cover, and flowers and books about,
gave a gracious, home-like air.

If the outside were only as good as the
inside ! But what an awful neighbourhood it
is !' said Sibyl, lifting up her hands. ' As I
drove up here the wickedness of the people's
faces, the way they scowled at me, made me
shudder.'

You need not have shuddered said Marguerite,
with a little toss of her head. ' The
worst of our people up here is they are not
hypocrites ; they wear their wickedness outside
instead of in ; half the time it is pain
that makes them scowl, poor creatures !
When hunger is griping a man's inside, it
is enough to make him scowl. I'm sure it
would me.'

You always stand up for your people
here,' said Sibyl, ' but you know very well,
dear, they are the scum of the city.'

I know nothing of the sort ; they may bethe
dregs, but they certainly are not the scum
the scum is at the top. You must look to
our vionde for that.'

We don't get drunk, at any rate.'
Humph !' Marguerite remembered certain
traits de moeurs she had heard at Yrakow,
and admired Sibyl's impudence. ' Perhaps it
would be better for them if they did,' she said
defiantly. ' I know a few respectable Pharisees
whom I should love to make so drunk
that they would roll under the table. That
might take the pride out of them, and send
them up to the Temple to strike their breasts
and get justified.'

Narva burst out laughing.

The Pharisees get no quarter from Marguerite,'
she said.

Sibyl looked half inclined to be angry.
Well, if she is fond of publicans, I should
think she is satisfied up here. The shouts

and yells from the wine-shops as I came
along were perfectly awful. It reminded me
of the shrieks of the damned.'

That can't be a pleasant noise,' said Marguerite
; ' but I would rather hear that than
the laughter of the damned.'

^ I did not know they ever laughed in
hell'

I fancy they do now and then ; I fancy
when the Pharisees are stripped of their
shams, and shown up naked at the judgment-seat,
their countenances on finding themselves
in that predicament must be a sight to make
even the poor devils laugh.'

The poor devils ? Well, if you are going
to stand up for the devils !'

It would be a good thing if we had their
zeal and their perseverance,' retorted Marguerite.


You need not envy them their spirit
of contradiction, at any rate said Sibyl
good-humouredly, feeling that she had made
a hit.

Give it up, Sibyl — give it up,' said Narva,

triumphing with Marguerite, who had had
the best of it up to this.

But Marguerite had not thought of triumphing
; she only thought of defending her
poor people.

What news have you from St. Petersburg ?'
she asked, turning the conversation.

Sibyl slowly lifted her shoulders, and, with
a sigh, slowly let them down.

I'm afraid my father is growing weak.
Basil has persuaded him to wait and give
him time to live down his foolish passion. I
fear Basil has entangled himself deeper, and
In more ways than we suspected. And he
has broken through all restraint with my
father, and rails against the tyranny of the
Emperor and the miserable condition of the
people, and goes on like a lunatic. The
wonder is that my father bears it. But the
wonder of all is that anyone so clever as
Basil can be such a fool ! As if our moulins
wanted to be free ! As if they would know
what to do with themselves if they were sent
adrift tomorrow like English or French peasants

! To give them perfect freedom would
be to make them miserable.'

My dear Sibyl,' Narva protested, with a
laugh, ' would a lark be miserable if you
opened its cage and set it free ?'

*Yes, it would, if it had been born in a
cage. That is what you and Basil don't consider.'
(How that 'you and Basil' made
Narva's heart leap !) * Human beings, like
animals, are only happy in the conditions
they are born to. A savage is happy in
savage conditions ; our civilized ways would
be misery to him. Fancy a red Indian,
roaming through his forests in a bead necklace,
suddenly trapped, and his free limbs
packed into pantaloons and top-boots !'

'We Russians are not quite red Indians,'
said Narva ; ' and we have been slowly educating
ourselves up to top-boots these fifty
years past.'

unfortunately !' said Sibyl, with intense
emphasis. * Our people were much happier
before they ever heard of top-boots. They
were content with their lot, just as the camel

is content that toils all his life through the
desert ; but bring a camel up as a pet to eat
and drink and lie in the shade, and then load
him and turn him out into the desert to tramp
without water under a vertical sun, and do
you think he would be content ?'

He would be a great fool if he were. But
what does that prove ? — that the majority
of human beings ought to be treated like
camels ?'

They ought not to be unfitted for their
allotted work.'

Allotted ? Who allotted it ? When God
created the world, did He allot the millions as
camels to the tens ? Did He authorize you
to treat the people as cattle ?'

I don't think we ever treated our people
as cattle,' said Sibyl, surprised and resentful.

You did not ; but others around you
did, and you might if you had chosen. I
don't believe God ever meant to place the
majority of His children in jeopardy to that
choice.'

There was a passionate vibration in Narva's

voice that bade Sibyl remember how cruelly
the choice had been used against her kindred;
the remembrance smote her heart, if not her
conscience. There was an awkward silence,
when Marguerite exclaimed :

Good gracious ! is that three o'clock ? I
had only meant to stay ten minutes, and you
have beguiled me into wasting twenty ! Dear
Sibyl, you will be interested to hear that I amas
poor as a rat, and ready for any spare cash
you may want to get rid of. I just mention it
in case you should not like to ask me. Now
I must be off!'

She kissed her, and hurried away.

Where is she going in such a hurry i^' inquired
Sibyl, when Narva returned, after
closing the door.

She is gone to dress the wound of a
carter whose leg was smashed under a stone,
and then amputated. It is a frightful case.
Marguerite dresses the wound twice a day.'

Sibyl shuddered.

It is extraordinary how hard Marguerite
has grown ; she can stand by without wincing,

and look on at those horrors, while the very-sight
of blood makes me sick ! But it is
much better for one's self and others not to
be so tender-hearted. I should think the
atmosphere of this place, with such misery
all about as Marguerite describes, must be
very bad for you, Narva, it is so depressing ?
And you want to be cheered up. Now I
look at you, my darling, you seem very tired.
I am sure you are overworking yourself.
You want rest. You ought to be lying down
this minute. I wish I could stay and put you
on the sofa, and read to you for an hour.
Have you any nice books ?* — she glanced
round at the table. ' When I come back I
will mist on your letting me take care of
you.' She stood up, and looked into Narva's
great blue-black eyes, and then opened her
arms.

Narva let herself sink into the loved embrace
which had so long been her haven of
sweetest rest ; but suddenly she recollected
how that soft little hand had clutched an imaginary
knout, to cut open the flesh of the

VOL. II. 28

woman whom Basil loved. The recollection
made her blood run cold, and she drew
herself away from the clasping arms.

All this time a crowd of gamins were
collected at the door outside, staring at the
grand equipage and chaffing the fine flunky.
When the owner of this splendour came out,
they ceased their chaffing, and stood In
silence, watching the ceremony of her getting
into the carriage and sinking back on the
cushions, while the fine flunky arranged her
silken skirts, the glossy thoroughbreds meantime
tossing their heads and pawing the
ground, and giving every sign of impatience
and disgust. Finally they moved on, spurning
the stones contemptuously, and striking
sparks with their steel hoofs ; a comical
parody on human impudence and conceit
admirably performed by thoroughbred
beasts.

As the carriage with its liveries and emblazoned
panels jolted lightly down the
roughly paved street, the pageant drew
gazers to doors and windows, and Sibyl

again passed under the fire of those sullen
glances which to her betokened the excess
of wickedness. Clearly these people needed
to be held down with a hand of iron.

Narva watched the carriage out of sight
from the doorstep. As she was turning in
she saw Madame Blaquette standing in the
middle of the street, and earnestly gazing
into the palm of her hand.

God direct me !' ejaculated the landlady,
in a voice evidently intended to reach Narva.
Then, looking up : ' Oh ! it is you, mademoiselle
! I was just considering whether I
ought to bestow an alms on this poor woman
or not ; she looks deserving, but I nay be
deceived.'

As you have taken out the penny, I think
I would bestow it,' replied Narva.

• That is precisely what I feel about it.
Then, in God's name, I will risk it !' She
presented the penny to the beggar, who had
been patiently waiting while her fate was
discussed.

Narva glanced at her and noticed that she

28—2

wore green spectacles, and a bandage over
one side of her surprisingly red face. ' I
should not have said that she looked deservings
was Narva's reflection as she turned
Indoors ; ' but I don't suppose Madame
Blaquette's penny will do her much harm.'

RUMBLINGS OF THE STORM.

T may have been fancy ; but when
Narva went out next morning It
certainly did strike her that there
was something abnormal in the looks of the
people and the atmosphere of the place. But
she set it down to the effect of Sibyl's
shuddering and denunciations, and turned
away from the idea. Moreover, her own
nerves, she knew, were always at full stretch,
generally beyond it, and it was always safe
to discount her own impressions. She bethought
her that she would go down to the
House, and hear what they said there.

Was Sibyl dreaming, or did she really
smell brimstone in the air yesterday ?' asked

Narva, walking into the dispensary, where
Marguerite was pounding herbs in a mortar.

I'm afraid she smelt something,' Marguerite
replied, without looking up. * I wish
you had gone away with her.'

I would not have sone if she had asked
me ; but she did not ask me.'

Marguerite made no comment on this, but
went on with her pounding.

Oh, Marguerite, what a fool I have been
all my life !' Narva burst out passionately ;
I see now Sibyl never cared a straw for me.
She never loved me a bit, and she has been
feeding me on false sacraments of love all my
Hfe!'

Mon dieu ! how you do exaggerate everything
!' said Marguerite, looking up and
tossing her head ; ' you are so terribly
morbid that you turn everything in life to
tragedy.'

And what has life been to mee but a
tragedy ever since I can remember '^. It is
easy for you to preach, but it is enough to
drive me mad to see how little Sibyl cares

about me ! To hear her talking sentimental
stuff about longing to hold my hand, when
all this time she never asked how I managed
not to starve ! Good God ! if I were in her
place and she in mine ! But I am a fool — a
fool !' she repeated passionately.

Yes,' said Marguerite, with uncivil acquiescence,
while her corvette bobbed in
merry accompaniment to the pestle ; ' you
were a fool when you made an idol of a
creature ; and, as I told you before, it is the
tumbling down of your idol that is hurting
you so terribly. You expect too much from
Sibyl, because you gave her more than you
ought to have given to any human creature.'


^ Not near as much as you have given.'

Yes, you ; you have given everything
to human creatures : your time, your energies,
your whole life. I never gave all that to
Sibyl.'

The pestle stopped, and Marguerite looked
up in amazement.

But I have not given that to creatures ?
I have given it to God. That is just what
makes the difference.'

There was no answer to this. It shifted
the ground of the argument too far. After a
moment's silence Narva said :

And so you think there is going to be an
dilute ?^

I am afraid there is something brewing.
One feels the throbbing of the kettle before
it boils oven' Marguerite laid her open
hand downward on the air, as if touching
water.

Does it break out all in a moment like

that r

So they tell mee. Our Sisters have seen
terrible explosions, just like gunpowder :
the men go down into the streets and fight ;
barricades start up in every direction as if
by magic, and then there is firing and
slaughtering, and the seven devils are let
loose and the people go mad ; first their heads
go mad, and then their hearts.'

Do hearts go mad. Marguerite ?'

I think they must. I do believe that
hatred creates madness, just as fever does
when it gets to one's head. And it is so
much harder to cure a mad heart than a
mad head ! Hatred is such a malignant
force ! Where it breaks out it devours
everything ; it is Hke fire. That is the
dreadful thing in these revolutions ; they
are hatred in a state of combustion.'

Are you afraid the people will attack the
House }''

Oh no ; they never hurt us. But a lot
of our poor people will get into sad trouble.
The police have been reinforced, and the
troops are consigned to the barracks, and
swarms of detectives are prowling about the
district. We have set the children to pray,
two by two, in the church all day, and M.
le Cure gave us leave to watch ourselves in
prayer all to-night.'

Is it so near as all that ?' Narva exclaimed,
In surprise ; ' and you never said a
word about it to me !'

It was only this morning that we heard

how alarmed the Government was, and the
stringent measures that are being taken.'

Marguerite put aside the pestle and mortar,
and took down from the wall the little basket
she carried on her errands.

You are going to visit some sick people ?
Let me come with you,' said Narva.

No ; it is a case of small-pox ; you had
better go home. And if there be any movement
in the streets tomorrow morning, stay
indoors. It may blow off, as these threats
sometimes do ; or it may be held down. But
we shall soon know. Au revoir, dear.'

They parted at the gate, and Narva went
home. Now that her eyes had been opened
to observe the signs of things that were
coming, the rebellious element in the air had
become distinct sentient, and her pulses
were quickened to sympathy with it. She
too had wrongs to redress, and she was
ready to side heart and soul with the people
around her who were going to rebel and to
seek redress for theirs. She did not stop to
ask whether these wrongs were real or not ;

she was in a mood to applaud rebellion ; her
whole heart went out in sympathy with it.
These people, like her, were the victims of
tyranny ; they were politically free, but they
were the slaves of those merciless tyrants,
the rich ; they were starved and exasperated
to violence by the inexorable rapacity of the
capitalists. This might be justice in the eyes
of the law, but in the sight of God it was
murder. In the sight of God the rich man
had no more right to use the brute force of
money against the poor one than the strongman
to use the brute force of muscular
strength against the helpless paralytic. But
they arrogated the right, and this was the
universal wrong that was crying out for
vengeance all over the world.

The passion of revenge had been sleeping
in Narva's heart, ready to wake up at the
first opportunity. Time had not made less
heinous in her eyes any of the wrongs that
she had suffered, or weakened her sense of
their injustice. Herein lies the vital difference
between pain and evil : the flight of

time, passing over pain, effaces the very-remembrance
of it, and washes away the
traces of suffering ; but it leaves the memory
of evil and the ruin it has made untouched ;
the lapse of years atones for nothing ; forgetfulness
is not remedial of guilt. It was not the
fact of her father and brother having died in
Siberia, of her mother lying in the graveyard
at Yrakow — it was not these sorrows in
themselves that rankled and festered in
Narva's heart, making it burn for revenge
and throb in passionate sympathy with rebellion
; it was the fact that those deaths
were the work of human cruelty and injustice.
What could be done to better the
world while these sinister powers of evil were
ruling it ? There was nothing but to rise up
and destroy them.

She got out those articles of Basil's and
read them. They were like the sound of
martial music to her excited nerves. She
was putting them away, when the concierge
knocked at her door, and handed in a letter.
It was from Ivan. Was this news of Basil ?

Narva opened It eagerly. This Is what Ivan
said :

On the loth, there will be a meeting at
which some important news will be communicated.
If you don't write to forbid me,
I will meet you in the gallery of the Luxembourg
on Friday at half-past one, and we will
go together.'

This invitation would have been to Narva
like the braying of the trumpet to the warhorse,
if she had not already been to one of
the assemblies In question. She suspected
the news was about Basil, but even this
temptation could not lure her again Into the
company of Olga Borzidoff and the rest of
them.

She was ready to sympathize actively
in every effort to overthrow tyrants ; but she
would rather go out and fight on the barricades,
if barricades there were to be, than
deliberately come Into contact with the people
she had met before at these clandestine
meetings. Besides, who could tell what
might happen between this and the loth ?

She went to bed late, and dreamed all night
of Basil, of dangers shared with him, of hairbreadth
escapes, of rescue at last, and then
she awoke and found herself still alone, and
life still a tragedy in which the romance of
love had yet to be enacted.

LA VILLETTE IN ARMS.

HEN Narva went out to make
her little provisions next morning,
she perceived at once that there
was a movement of some sort on foot. The
people were out in the streets talking excitedly
in groups. She asked a young workman
what was the matter.

The people have risen !' he said triumphantly
; ' I have been helping at the barricades
since daybreak ; I have only run off to
get a mouthful of food. We are going to
have a journey ! Keep indoors, ma belle
citoyenne — the troops are coming down the
boulevards — unless you like to come and
lend us a hand on the barricades ?'

He marched off In high good-humour,
proud as a peacock : the women were looking
after him, some Hke furies, others scared and
anxious.

Narva hurried home, made a hasty meal,
and put on her bonnet to go down to the
House. As she opened her own door she
saw Dr. Schenk on the threshold, with his
hand on the bell.

You are going out !' he said, In surprise.

Yes ; I am going to the Sisters' House.
It seems there Is an dilute!

She stood back, and he came In.

Yes, a very serious ^meiUe. You must
not venture out into the streets ; the firing
may begin anywhere at any moment. I have
come to take you away. You can't remain
here In the midst of such danger. Put up
what you want in a little bag, and come away
at once. I have a cab waiting at the corner

of the Rue X ; we can get round through

a back way.'

He spoke with quiet authority, just as
when she had been his patient he had

ordered her to do this, or avoid that. Narva
was bewildered.

Where do you want to take me to ?' she
said.

Dr. Schenk looked at her in silence with a
steady gaze that had something magnetic in
it. Then, drawing a step nearer :

There Is only one place where you can go
with safety and dignity,' he said ; ' that Is
your husband's house. Don't start, Narva;
listen to me. I have loved you from the
first hour we met. I did not dare to tell you
so, because I was afraid It might have driven
you from me. I knew you must be slowly
won, and I was satisfied to wait. I would
have waited seven years. But there Is no
time to wait now ; I am driven to speak ; It
is the only way of rescuing you. I love you !
Accept me for your husband, and I will trust
to winning your love by the strength of my
own, by the whole devotion of my life.'

Narva had been too startled and surprised
to speak.

'Why, I thought you knew she said,
VOL. IT. 29

hesitating, and her colour rose and spread to
a beautiful carmine. ' Did not Ivan tell you ?
I am engaged to Basil Zorokoff.'

That is an idle dream,' said Schenk, unmoved.
* You weill never be Zorokoff's wife.'

What do you mean ?'

He weill never marry you ; he does not
love you.'

How dare you say that !' cried Narva, and
the blue fire flashed from her eyes.

He does not love you,' Schenk repeated,
in the same quiet tone. ' If he loved you,
he would not have left you all this time to
work for your daily bread alone, battling
with the perils and cruelties of want. Don't
tell me he could not help it. If he had loved
you he would have helped it ; but he loves
nothing but ambition. He might have
married you, from a sense of honour, if he
had been his own master. But love you !
Child, your love sweeps over him in a high
tide of passion that he no more vibrates to
than an oyster vibrates to the roll of the
Atlantic !'

The words were full of passion, but
Schenk's voice was as cold and level as If
he had been speaking on any ordinary subject
; the fire in him was at white heat ; but It
did not flash out ; it was concentrated within.
There was something unhuman in this cold-blooded
self-command that repelled Narva
indescribably ; but it helped her to be calm.

Dr. Schenk,' she said, trying to keep her
loathing out of her voice, ' I will not forget
that you have shown me great kindness ; but
I must remind you that nothing can justify
your speaking of what Is strictly and sacredly
personal to me. I am as sure of the love of
Basil Zorokoff as I am of mine for him. You
are not capable of understanding a nature
like his. He is too far above you.'

Schenk smiled compassionately.

Keep your illusions,' he said ; * I don't
want to destroy them ; I only want to prevent
them from destroying you. You are
sacrificing: your youth to a phantom. Zoro-
off will never break through his present
bonds to marry you. His own indifference Is

29 — 2

in league with the strong will of his father
and his sister. Give up that dream. Worship
him as a patriot, if you will, but give
your love to me. I love you with my whole
soul ; I will be your slave all my life. You
care nothing for the gauds that other women
covet ; but these, too, I can put at your feet ;
my fortune is ample. Be my wife, Narva.
and let us work in the good cause together !'
He held out his hand to her, but she fell
back with a gesture of denial. Schenk
thought it expressed disgust. ' My hand
is clean ; there is no man's blood upon it.'
he said, and there was a sinister gleam in his
eye.

Narva, stung to the quick, flashed back at
him a glance of hatred and defiance.

That taunt covers a cowardly lie !' she
said ; * but I am glad that you uttered it ; it
shows me your true character, and enables
me to dismiss you without a shadow of regret.
Go, and never cross my path again !'

She pointed to the door, but Schenk did
not obey her. He turned away, and paced

the room twice — three times ; his head was
bent, his right hand was thrust into his
breast, his features were working convulsively.
There was something terrible and
pitiable in the sight of this sudden passion,
in the agony of conflict that was going on
within him. Narva, standing by the mantelpiece,
watched him, divided between fear,
anger, and a rising sense of pity. He had
flung his love so generously at her feet, she
felt sorry for him, in spite of those insolent
and cruel words.

Suddenly Schenk came and stood before
her. The change that had taken place in
him within the last few minutes was frightful
to see ; his sallow pallor had turned to a livid
gray ; there was a red line across his forehead,
as if he had been struck with a lash.

Forgive me,' he said meekly ; ' I have
behaved like a fool and a brute. My love
for you must be my excuse. I love you so
madly there is nothing under heaven I would
not have done to win you ! But I will never
trouble you again. Try and forgive what I

said of Zorokoff. There was nothing In it.
It was the fling of a jealous man. Jealousy
makes men mad. I was mad just now. But
it is past. And now what can I do to help
you ? Is there no friend that you can goto?'


Narva's passionate anger was disarmed,
but with it her strength of self-command
gave way. She struggled to hold it for a
moment, and then burst into tears. Schenk
forced her gently into a seat, and stood over
her, waiting.

I am very sorry this has happened,'
she said, after a while, lifting her head and
swallowing a sob ; * I am very sorry. No ;
there is nothing you can do for me. Goodbye.'


I can't bear the idea of your being here
alone,' he said. ' Is there no one within
reach ? — Madame de Beaucrillon ?'

Narva made a negative movement with her
head.

I don't run the risks up here that you
imagine. The people won't hurt me. I am

Soeur Marguerite's friend. I was going down
to the House to see her.'

She stood up. Schenk saw there was no
use in urging her.

I will see you that far,' he said ; * as yet
the road there is clear.'

He opened the door, and they went out
together.

Narva noticed the beggar standing at the
door of the house opposite. It struck her as
odd that she should be quietly stationed there
waiting for pennies at such a crisis, for nobody
was abroad except those who were going to
fight. The street had already undergone a
change : every shop that had a shutter had
put it up, and everybody had gone indoors.

Narva saw and felt the change without
being conscious of it. Those cruel words of
Schenk's, ' He might marry you from a sense
of honour, but he does not love you,' were
like the bite of a snake in her flesh. They
walked on rapidly to the House, and did not
speak until Schenk said good-bye to her at
the gate.

The court was a scene of extraordinary
excitement ; people were coming and going ;
the children of the schools were flocking in ;
they had been sent home, but the parents
had come back with them, entreating the
Sisters to keep them over the night.

But where are we to put them ?' exclaimed
Soeur Jeanne, in dismay ; ' every bed, every
mattress in the house is more than filled !'

Pack them up to the infirmary,' suggested
Marguerite.

The infirmary !' retorted Soeur Jeanie,
there are ninety children packed into it
already ; they have hardly room to turn
round.'

What does that matter, ma soeur?' urged
Marguerite; 'where there is no room for
ninety, there is room enough for a hundred.
Get along with you all to the infirmary !'

And the children, in high glee at the lawless
opportunity, went tumbling up the stairs.

Oh, Narva, 1 am so thankful to see you !'
cried Marguerite, perceiving her. ' Here is
a note from Sibyl ; it has just come. She

wants us both to go off with her to Beau-crimson
by the noon express.'

Are you going ?' Inquired Narva.

I ? What a notion ! I thought nobody
but Sibyl could have Imagined such a thing
possible. Just think how busy we are going
to be ! The big school-room is turned into
an ambulance, and they will be carrying in
the wounded as soon as the fighting begins.'

While she spoke there was a detonation of
fire-arms, first a single shot, then a volley,
followed by a prolonged shout that rose in
the distance, and came gradually nearer as
street after street took It up. The women
who were in the court hurried away ; the
Sisters went quickly indoors with the children,
who had lingered outside, full of curiosity and
delighted excitement. In the twinkling of
an eye the place was cleared, and Marguerite
and Narva were left alone at the gate.

*You had better run home at once,' said
Marguerite ; ' the road Is still clear. But
don't loiter, and don't stir out while the firing
lasts. It is not likely '

The sentence was cut short by a terrific
volley that sounded much nearer this time.
Marguerite turned pale, and made the sign of
the cross.

Why may I not stay here with you ?' said
Narva. ' I could help in the ambulance T

Yes, you might — Marguerite hesitated —
only I may be sent down to the barricades
to attend to the wounded who can't be
carried here. Still, if you like '

As she spoke, there came rushing past the
gate a band of roughs, shouldering muskets
and shouting a ribald song.

And these are the people you are going
to risk your life for ?' said Narva ; ' men who
probably don't even know the name of God !'

'■ Perhaps not ; but God knows their name,
and has died for every one of them. That is
why It is worth while,' replied Marguerite.

She spoke calmly, but Narva could see
that she was agitated.

Are you not afraid, dear ?' she said, looking
tenderly down on the small figure.

Afraid .^' The question implied something

which stirred Marguerite's blood.
Noli i7^ritaix leone was the motto of her
house, and though the Hon lay dormant
beneath the dove, just as the lady's silken
attire had disappeared under the peasant's
gown, there were moments when the lion
woke up, and when the antique French patrician,
than whom the womanhood of all the
races offers no loftier or lovelier type, asserted
her inalienable dignity ; ' no, I am not afraid,'
she said, with penitent humility ; ' what is
there to be afraid of ?'

The firing, the bullets : suppose you were
to be killed ?'

Killed ? No such luck !' Marguerite
shook her head.

A suspicion darted through Narva's mind.

Marguerite, you are wearied of your life,'
she said.

Wearied of my life ? I should never be
wearied of it if I did not ore homesick now

o

and then.'

Ah ! Then you do regret the life you
have renounced .^'

Marguerite looked up in quick surprise
and laughed.

I meant homesick for heaven. If I were
shot down at the barricades in the service of
charity, it would be like martyrdom, and I
should go straight to heaven. Would not
that be luck, dear Narva 1 Only such a
grand death is much too good for me to
expect'

She gave a little sigh. She looked very
tired, though she was excited. Something in
her manner and voice struck Narva to the
heart. Could it be that this longing for
martyrdom was prophetic ? Narva resolved
to stay and share the risks, whatever they
might be.

CHAPTER XII.

narva's lullaby.

HE dilute lasted six days. Then
came peace and the day of reckoning,
while La Villette cowered in
its kennel like a whipped hound. Numbers
who had been taken fighting on the barricades
and in the streets were in prison ;
but greater numbers still had escaped, and
amongst them many of the ringleaders, and
these were skulking in holes and corners,
nursing their wounds, and dodging the police
who were in hot pursuit of them.

The white corvette had been the confidantes
of the people all through. Everyday,
before dawn, wives and mothers were

to be seen waiting at the gate of the House,
asking for help and shelter for husbands and
sons and brothers : ' mon homme ' had held
a barricade for ten hours, and was a deadman
if the police caught him ; and so on
with scores of others.

Marguerite's wish had been disappointed.
She had been a martyr only in spirit and in
self-sacrifice ; but, in the eyes of the people,
she had won the palm-branch as fully as if
she had shed her blood for them They had
loved her before — they now worshipped her ;
and Narva, who had been her companion
through those terrible days, shared the
prestige that surrounded her. Early on the
morning of the seventh day they went out
together on their stealthy round of illegal
visits of mercy through the district ; and it
was a fresh wonder to Narva to see how
Marguerite rose to the new and strange
difficulties of the position. Sometimes she
spoke to the culprits in a tone of severe
command, so amusingly at variance with her
little figure and her sweet young face that it

raised a smile ; but this unconscious air of
comedy in no way detracted from the impressiveness
of what she said. To those
who were expiating their criminal folly in
bodily pain, suffering from wounds and from
remorse, her compassion was boundless ; her
voice was full of pity and healing balm, and
her smile had a pathos that is seen only on
lips that have quivered with pain. As Narva
went with her through the reeking slums and
tenements, and saw her exorcising the evil
spirits, subduing impotent rage to humble
penitence, making the haters ashamed of
their hate, her own passionate theories for
reforming the world suddenly appeared to
her, not merely futile, but insane and cruel
beside this simple philosophy of love.

They came presently to the door of Antoine
Drex's house. Antoine was hiding.
He had been recklessly prominent all through
the riots, and the police were actively searching
for him. The Sisters brought him
food secretly, and Marguerite came regularly
to dress his wounds. He had left his own

lodging, and taken refuge with his old mother
in this miserable tenement, recently inhabited
by a man who had fallen on a barricade, and
whose idiot child was now moaning on its
bed with fever, while la mere Drex tried to
soothe it.

Narva assisted Marguerite in dressing the
wound ; it was a bad one in the head, but
not dangerous. When this was done she
went to see if the child wanted any help.

Nantes ! nantes !' wailed the little creature,
staring at her with mindless eyes, now glittering
with the light of fever.

What is she calling for ?' Narva asked.

She wants me to sing to her,' said the
old woman. ' Poor Binary used to sing the
child to sleep of a night ; a good thing it was
for him too — it kept him from the cabaret
ever since his wife's death. I can't, ma
petiole, I can't,' she repeated, as the child
kept on her monotonous cry :

Nantes ! nantes !'

In the excitement and busy exertions of
the last week, Narva had almost forgotten

her lost voice ; but this piteous supplication
of the sick child reminded her of it, and
smote her with a new regret. With a
sudden intense desire, there came to her a
vivifying inward force, swift and potent as
the touch of an electric spring. She cleared
her throat and began to warble, first in a soft
undertone, as if trying an instrument that
she was not sure of — whose strings might
snap ; but gradually her voice rose, and
gained in volume, and rang out in the old
clear, sweet tones.

Marguerite could hardly believe her ears.
It seemed like a miracle : one of those
miracles of charity that she herself performed
day after day in the desolate places.
She crushed the sugar noiselessly in the
tisane she was preparing for Antoine Drex,
and kept murmuring to herself, with a smile :

God is love ! God is love !'

Antoine's eyes were fixed on Narva as if
she were some visitant from another world.
She looked like one, as she sat singing by
the poverty-stricken bed, the flush of a pure

VOL. II. 30

emotion on her face, a light of joy in her
luminous dark eyes.

When the song — a Russian ballad — was
ended, the child called out :

Unco' ! unco' !'

And Narva, stirred by that encore as she
had never been by the applause of a salon, sang
again, this time in French, Mignon's lament,
Rendez-moi la patrie, ou laissez-moi mourir !'

The child grew calmer, and ceased to toss
on her pillow ; by the time the song was
ended she had fallen asleep. La mere Drex
lifted up her hands in a gesture of wonderment
and admiration.

Narva rose, and moved softly out of the
room after Marguerite. When they were on
the landing, by a common impulse the two
friends turned and kissed one another. Their
hearts were too full for speech.

On reaching the bottom of the stairs they
found a crowd assembled before the house.
Marguerite at once guessed that the police
had tracked Antoine, and stepped bravely
forward to meet the enemy.

What is the matter ?' she said.

Ma soeur answered a blouse, ' we wanted
to see whether it was you or the Virgin Mary
that was singing up there.'

It was neither one nor the other, you
silly people !' said Marguerite, intensely relieved
; 'it was my friend' — pointing to
Narva. ' Hush !' she cried, seeing they
were going to cheer ; ' there is a sick child
up there that has just fallen asleep. Don't
wake her !'

Obedient to Soeur Marguerite, as usual,
they walked on silently, making an escort
to her and Narva across the court, and accompanying
them to the end of the lane
beyond it. Then, as by a common accord,
they raised a ringing cheer :

Vive le rossignol ! Vive I'amie de la
Soeur Marguerite !'

The ovation brought the wild roses into
Narva's cheeks, and made her heart swell
with a sense of victory unlike anything she
had ever felt before.

It had been an exciting morning, and she

30—2

Narva.

was very tired as she walked home. On
reaching her own door it suddenly occurred
to her that this was the tenth, the day of the
meeting. At this very hour it was in full
swing, and Ivan Gorff was probably wondering
why she had neither written nor met him
at the trysting-place.

MARGUERITE DISOBEYS THE LAW.

Must as Narva had shut herself In
and sat down to reaHze the happy
fact of her voice's return, the main
street of the Place was thrown into excitement
by an accident. A cab containing two
men was coming quietly up the street, when
the horse took fright and rushed blindly on,
struck against a cart, and fell, overturning the
cab. One of the travellers, who was in the
act of jumping out, paid for his want of presence
of mind by an ugly cut in the head ;
the other, in attempting to follow him, had
hurt his leg, and lay groaning in the bottom
of the overturned cab.

Two gamins jumped up on the wheel to
look in at him.

It is the Commissary of Police !' cried one
of them, turning to the bystanders.

His face was a picture ; it expressed a
keen sense of the humorous side of the situation,
with a dread of •' catching it ' if he were
overheard by the still powerful, though prostrate,
functionary. For it was, in truth, no
less a person than the mighty Commissary
who lay trapped in the upset vehicle, groaning
with a sprained ankle, like a common man.

A crowd had gathered in a moment. No
one recognised the man on the pavement,
but all shrewdly suspected him to be a police
agent, come to participate in some important
arrest. Anyhow, the pair were after no
good. It was clearly a judgment of Providence
that had overtaken them, in favour
of the poor wretch they were after, and the
fun of the thing was delicious. People came,
nevertheless, from the neighbouring shops
and volunteered help, and the cab was soon
set on its wheels.

I have hurt my foot badly,' said the Commissary.
' Is there a doctor anywhere near?'

We are close to the Sisters' House, monsieur,'
said a workman ; ' you had better let
us take you there while the doctor is fetched.'

Another cab was called, and the two injured
men were helped into it and driven off.

Soeur Marguerite was in the dispensary,
and saw it stop at the gate with a procession
of ragamuffins. Presently the two Commissaries
were assisted across the court into the
House. In a moment several Sisters were in
attendance. The injuries proved more painful
than serious, and the Sisters were quite
capable of dealing with them without the
doctor.

As soon as the Commissary's sprain had
been attended to, and he was made comfortable
on an improvised sofa, with pillows at
his back, he asked for writing materials, and
wrote a short note. Then, beckoning to
Marguerite :

Ma soeur,' he said, in a confidential tone,
I want you to do a little commission for me.

I want you to take a cab and drive to the
Prefecture, and ask to see M. le Prefer — you
will send in my card — and then give this note
into his hands.'

^Ah!'

Marguerite's look of intense curiosity as
she took the note was irresistible.

I will tell you what it is about,' whispered
the Commissary. ' I and my colleague came
here to arrest a scoundrel named Drex —
Antoine Drex ; but we have been hindered,
as you see. Now, it is most necessary that
they should know this at once at the Prefecture,
and send on two others to do it, or
the fellow may get wind of the matter and
slip through our fingers. You understand-^^

Oh yes, monsieur, I understand.' Marguerite's
heart was thumping so that she
wondered the Commissary did not hear it
and suspect. ' I don't think they would let
mee see M. le Prefer,' she said, turning the
letter in her hand ; * had I not better say you
want some one to be sent up here to you ?'

No, no ; that would lose too much time,*

he said impatiently. ' They will let you in at
once when you show my card with that word
written on it.'

Is he suspected of anything very bad, this
Antoine Drex .^' she inquired, with an idea
that every minute's delay might help Antoine.

He is not suspected, he is known to be a
dangerous villain. Go, ma soeur ; not a word
to anyone here, but go !'

Marguerite slipped the letter up her sleeve,
and went out. Once in the street, she stood
debating. It was a hard task that was set
her. Must she execute it .'^ Poor Antoine !
She knew he was more sinned against than
sinning. Still a voice whispered, ' You are
bound to obey the laws She heard it ; still
she hesitated. Suddenly another voice
whispered, ' Charity is the greatest commandment
of all. Charity is the law of
God.' She agreed with this voice ; still she
hesitated, but not long. Glancing quickly,
furtively, up and down the street, she started
off in the direction of the Cour des Chats,
walking as fast as she dared, and quickening

her pace to a run when she turned into the
dirty leeway that led into it.

Antoine was sitting as she had left him,
only smoking a pipe. His mother had gone
out to the savoir ; the idiot child, lulled to
rest by Narva's song, was still fast asleep.

Marguerite closed the door, and then,
dropping her voice :

Antoine,' she said, ' the police are in
pursuit of you. The Commissary was on his
way here when he met with an accident ; he
is now at the House, resting, and I am going
to the Prefecture with this letter, desiring
some one to be sent to arrest you.'

Without waiting to see the effect of her
information, she turned quickly away, and
closed the door after her.

An hour later two police-officers drove
up to the entrance of the Cour des Chats,
and crossed over to the house where Antoine
was lodging. They went up and knocked at
the door, guided by the instructions contained
in the Commissary's letter. Some one said,
Come in ' ; but on opening the door they

beheld, instead of Antoine Drex, Soeur Marguerite,
knitting by the window.

Pardon, ma soeur,' said one of the agents,
taking off his hat ; ' we are looking for
Antoine Drex. We have come to arrest
him.'

Marguerite's heart was beating like a
hammer on an anvil, but she looked at him,
and said composedly :

You had better go to the House, and tell
M. le Commissaire that you found me herein
place of Antoine Drex.'

The two police-officers looked at her as if
they doubted her sanity. Presently they
began to understand. They were young,
they were brave, they had hearts of men.

Ma soeur, I have the honour to salute
you,' said one of them.

They both bowed and walked out of the
room, and Marguerite heard the sound of
smothered laughter on the stairs.

But there remained now the Commissary
to face. She knew there would be no sympathetic
laughter there. The Commissary,

indeed, flew into a great rage when he heard
the trick that had been played him ; he sent
for the Superior, and whipped Marguerite on
her unoffending back ; he threatened to denounce
the community as accomplices of all
the rebels and rascals of the district, to have
the House shut up, etc., etc.

Marguerite meantime had followed the
agents to the House, and walked bravely in to
receive her reward. She was very frightened,
but she did not show it, and this assumption
of coolness made matters worse.

So, ma soeur, this is how you respect the
law !' cried the angry Commissary ; * before
you went to the Prefecture you gave that
scoundrel a hint to skedaddle.'

Monsieur le Commissaire, I am incapable
of anything so mean,' replied Marguerite ; ' I
told him plainly that I was going to the Prefecture
with a message from you for his arrest.'

And you are not ashamed of helping a
blackguard like that to evade the law ?'

Antoine Drex is not a blackguard, Monsieur
le Commissaire ; he is an honest man ;

he has been very unhappy ; he was cruelly
and unjustly treated, and he is exasperated.
He was falsely accused of murdering his
drunken wife, and kept ten months in prison
with thieves and homicides before he was put
on his trial and acquitted. He came out of
prison with his health broken and his heart
maddened, and he has never got back into his
right heart since. The injustice and cruelty
of the law turned him into a rebel. And soit
would have done you or me, M. le Commissaire.'


I'll tell you what,' said the Commissary,
I will report you to the Minister as a rebel
more dangerous than a score of Antoine
Drexes.'

He was furious ; but as he vented his fury,
something in her young face, an expression
at once timid and dauntless, reproachful and
beseeching, went to his heart. He turned
away with an angry grunt, and remained
silent ; while Marguerite picked up and replaced
at his back the pillow that, in his
agitation, he had sent rolling to the floor.

A cab was now waiting to take him and
his colleague away. Before he left, he spoke
civilly to Soeur Jeanne, and told her to look
after Soeur Marguerite, and see that she
played no tricks with the law in future, for
she might fall next time on some one who
would be less ready to overlook her misdemeanours.


Soeur Jeanne scolded Marguerite ; but the
community had a merry time of it at recreation
that evening ; nor were they to be
checked in their fun over the Commissary's
misadventure and the sorry figure he made in
his official discomfiture by Soeur Jeanne's
attempt to frown and look aggrieved.

Narva had heard nothing of the event, not
having left home since she had parted from
Marguerite. At ten o'clock that night she
was a little startled by some one knocking
at her door. She supposed it was the concierge
with a letter ; but before opening she
asked who was there.

A voice that she did not recognise answered


A friend of Soeur Marguerite.'

Narva drew back the bolt. She did not
know what fear was, but she was conscious
of an unpleasant sensation when she beheld
a huge man, with his head and shoulders
concealed by a shawl, step quickly in and
close the door behind him. He threw back
the shawl, and Narva recognised Antoine
Drex. He told her what had happened, and
how he had been hidden in a wood-yard all
the afternoon and evening, and now implored
her to shelter him till morning, and give him
some food. She fetched him bread and wine
and some cold meat, and he rolled an armchair
into the little kitchen, which was the
only annexe to the salon-bedroom. But
Antoine declared he was lodged like a prefer.

Narva was glad to harbour a hunted fellow-creature,
to give sanctuary to a victim of
that long-armed, cruel tyrant, the law. Very
likely Antoine was deep-dyed in plots against
the Government ; but Narva was not the one
to think worse of any man for that. Every
political criminal was dear to her for Basil's

sake. Nevertheless, though she was glad to
open her door to Drex, she felt that in doing
so she was incurring a great personal risk,
and if Antoine rested easily, she did not.
All night long she lay awake, listening to
every sound ; a dog that barked, a cart that
rumbled, made her start. She was up before
Antoine gave signs of stirring. She prepared
some food for him, and when he had
partaken of it, he stole out in the early morn,
his shawl drawn round him, and went down
to the House just as the gate was opened.

Narva SINGS FOR JOY.

Area never gave a thought to
the possible consequences to herself,
from the moment she saw
Antoine Drex safe out of her house ; but the
event had excited her extraordinarily. She
forgot that his coming to her for shelter was
the natural enough result of her visit to him
with Marguerite in the morning, and she
magnified the incident into a portent. Surely
she must be destined to play some part in
this great revolutionary drama that was
being enacted all over Europe, or else why
did these chances pursue her ? Some event
was at hand, she said to herself, some great

VOL. 11. .eleventh

in which a role was reserved to her by
fate, or by Providence.

Do you believe in presentiments ?' she
asked Marguerite, when they met that afternoon.


Certainly !' was the emphatic rejoinder ;
I believe them to be a sign of indigestion.'

Marguerite knew that Narva was morbidly
fanciful at times, and she made a point of
snubbing her fancies. Just now she seemed
excited and overwrought.

Nothing occurred during the day to justify
her presentiments, but at about ten o'clock
that night she was again startled by a visitor.
This time it was a ring, a very light ring, but
to her imagination, on the watch for signs
and portents, it sounded preternaturally loud
in the stillness. Could it be Antoine come
back ? Marguerite had said they would
shelter him at the House until he could get
away to Calvados, his native place. Narva
went to the door and asked who was there.

A voice answered in Russian, ' It is I,
Narva.'

Her heart gave a great leap, a low cry
rose to her lips, the bolt flew back — she
never knew how — and she found herself in
Basil Zorokoff's arms. For one long moment
life seemed over ; she was conscious of
nothing but the wild rapture of that embrace ;
his strong arms were clasping her, his cheek
was pressed against hers. Was it some
sweet madness, or was she in heaven ?

Are we alone ?' he whispered, glancing
round the dimly lighted room, while he
relaxed his hold of her.

Yes, quite alone. Oh, Basil, is it you, or
am I dreaming ?'

She trembled and clung to him as if she
were afraid he would escape from her. Basil
drew her to the little couch, and they sat
down together.

I frightened you,' he said, laughing ; * I
ought to have given you warning, and not
come down on you like this ; but there was
no time, unless I telegraphed on the road, and
that would have been a risk.'

I am not a bit frightened, only beside

31—2

myself with joy. Oh, Basil I Basil ! my love !
my love !'

She looked up into his face, sobbing for
happiness.

He bent down and kissed her tenderly.
She could see that he was aged ; but also
that he was grander and handsomer than ever.

Where have you come from ?' she said ;
have you escaped, or did the Prince consent
to your coming away ?'

Consent ?' Basil threw back his head
with the gesture she remembered so well :
I escaped in disguise by the same train
that took him to Berlin in attendance on
the Emperor, who is gone to visit his brother
Kaiser.'

Then he does not know that you have
escaped T

He knows it by this time, and he is
tearing his hair and swearing by St. Nicholas
that Basil Zorokoff is the greatest wretch
under heaven. Oh ! it is a fine thing to bea
loyal subject, and hate one's own flesh and
blood for love of the Emperor !'

'When did you get here ?' asked Narva.

An hour ago. I have come on here from
the train.'

Then you have not seen Sibyl ? You
did not know she is in town ?'

I did know ; but I came straight to
you.'

My own, my own. . . .' She locked her
arms round his throat, and let her head drop
on his breast. ' You came first to me !'

Of course I came first to you. Let me
look at you.' He put his hand under her
chin, and held up her face so that the light
from the shaded lamp fell upon it. 'My
poor Narva,' he said, gazing at her with
great tenderness, and then kissing her, * you
are grown thinner ; but you are as beautiful
as ever. And in spite of all you have gone
through — the prison '

He felt her shudder in his arms, and she
nestled closer to him.

Don't let us talk of that,' she said, in a
low voice; 'it is all past, and we are together.
I want to hear about you. Tell me everything

; tell me all that has happened since we
parted. Remember how little I know : only
first hints from Sibyl in her letters, and since
then, stray news of you through Ivan Gorff
Tell me the story yourself now.'

And Basil, with his arm round her, and
her hands locked about his neck, told it
rapidly, passing lightly over all that was
too painful and humiliating, so as not to
lacerate her loving heart, but enlarging complacently
on the work he had done, the
results he had achieved, the brilliant hopes
he cherished.

Narva saw with pride that he had ripened
greatly during the interval of their separation ;
his mind had gained in shrewdness and insight,
his faculties had evidently grown in
power of concentration ; she was amazed at
the vigour and quickness with which he
summed up the situation, weighed chances,
forecast probabilities, and arrived at practical
conclusions. It was clear that he had thrown
his whole soul and his whole energies into
the service of patriotism. He looked a

patriot and a hero every inch, so strong and
straight and bold in his manly beauty ; a
lover for a queen to be proud of. And
Narva was proud of him ; her heart swelled
with pride in him ; she admired him more
than ever, and she loved him with her whole
soul. And yet — she was conscious of a disappointment
somewhere. It was noble in
him to be absorbed in this grand impersonal
object, to have cast away, for the sake of
serving his oppressed fellow-countrymen, all
the pleasure that his youth and rank might
have claimed ; she admired and applauded
the nobleness that this choice evinced, and
yet — there was a vague disappointment
somewhere. Schenk's cruel words recurred
to her with a sting that even the joy of
Basil's presence could not allay : ' He does
not love you ; he only loves his ambition. If
he marries you, it will be from a sense of
honour.' Yet Basil was her affianced lover;
and she was beautiful ; and he had come to
her before he went to the sister whom he
loved so dearly. How could she doubt

but that he loved her ? If only he had
lingered a little longer on the joy of their
meeting, and then entered eagerly on the
question of their approaching marriage !

And Sibyl ?' he said ; ' she has been true
to you ?'

In what sense true ? Does she know of
our engagement ?'

I took it for granted she did.'

She never let me suspect it if she did.
And, dear Basil, I am afraid she will resent
our marriage as bitterly as the Prince.'

I hope not, when she knows the whole
truth — when I tell her how dear you are tome.,
and how much I owe you. I hope to
win her consent without great difficulty. She
will be so glad to see me, it will be easier to
persuade her.'

Narva's heart sank a little. Was Sibyl's
consent, then, essential ?

'You see,' Basil went on, 'we are still In
my father's power. I am absolutely penniless
if he does not relent, and I could not ask
you to marry a beggar. I have brought

trouble enough already on you, God knows,
without that

Oh, but I am going to make our fortune,'
Narva said, with a sudden thrill of exultation.
And she told him of Zampa's offer, and the
splendid career that was ready waiting for
her.

'And I am to live in idleness while you
work ?' Basil said with a laugh ; and he
caressed her.

You will be working for the great cause,
while I work for bread. Don't you love me
well enough to eat my bread ?' She drew
herself up, and keeping one hand round his
neck, she laid the other upon his breast.
Say, Basil, do you not love me well enough
to eat my bread ?'

He took her hand and kissed it, and held
it clasped. ' The husband ought to work
for the wife,' he said, ' not the wife for the
husband.'

That is the philosophy of pride and of
your aristocratic traditions. A patriot should
be above such prejudice. Marguerite was

glad when she heard this chance of helping
you was in store for me.'

Marguerite ! Ah ! how is she ?' There
was a tender cadence in his voice as he said
the name ; it struck cold on Narva's heart.

She is very well. I see her every day.'
Does she seem happy ?'

She is happy, perfectly happy. She loves
her vocation.'

Ah ! That vocation is a wonderful thing.
But she was an angel always, Marguerite.'

Nobody knew this better than Narva, yet
to hear Basil say it, and pronounce Marguerite's
name in that soft undertone, burned
her like the sting of a wasp.

Good heavens ! is that midnight ?' he
exclaimed, as the little clock on the mantelpiece
struck the hour. * How the time has
sped ! I have kept you up so late, dearest ;
and I have not slept myself for four nights.'

He made a movement to rise, but Narva
clung and nestled to him.

Must you go ?' she said, rubbing her
cheek against his coat caressingly. ' Tell me

about Sibyl ; will she be very angry with you
for coming to me first ?'

I don't mean to tell her. I shan't say I
have seen you.'

Ah ! Yet it might be a good way of
breaking the truth to her.'

I could not begin by vexing her and
making her jealous. She has been the best
of sisters to me always. No one has ever
loved me better than Sibyl, except you,
Narva.'

The words were sweet, and tenderly
spoken ; but he might have pressed her to
his heart, Narva thought, for his arm was
round her. The next moment she mocked
at herself for this ingenuity of self-torture.
He had flown to her first; he had proved by
this that she was his chief, his first object.
Why could not she rest on that and be
content, and silence these promptings of sick
jealousy ? It was natural as well as generous
and unselfish in him to consider Sibyl, and
Narva admired the large-hearted love that
embraced every claim so faithfully.

When shall I see you again, darling ?' she
said, as he gently unwound her arms and
stood up.

I will come as early as I can to-morrow
he replied, ' unless Sibyl sends for you to
come and meet me at her house.'

Oh no, not that !' said Narva, shrinking ;
I could not go through the comedy of a first
meeting before Sibyl !'

Then I will come here and fetch you, and
we will go back to her together.'

She went out with him to the dark entry.
At the outer door he turned once more and
folded her in a close embrace. As he released
her he whispered :

When you see Marguerite you may tell
her I am here. She will be glad to know
that I am safe.'

Yes, I will tell her,' Narva replied.

It was kind and natural that he should
think of sending a message to Marguerite.

IN THE NAME OF THE EMPEROR.'

ARK A was up before the earliest
bell. When she looked round her
it seemed wonderful that nothing
was changed In the shabby room ; that last
night's vision had not left some visible trail of
light or beauty behind It.

My love ! my love ! did I dream that you
were here, that you held me In your arms
and kissed me ? My Basil ! my own !'

She struck her hands together, and laughed
out loud for joy. The little morning duties
were quickly performed, the frugal meal made
ready and partaken of; then she dressed herself
with care, Inspired by the coquetry of

love, and made the room as pretty as she
could, arranging the flowers she had bought
of a poor woman at the door, placing the
books to the best advantage on the table,
moving and changing everything, as If the
magic of love's touch must Improve the
homely furniture. Then she sat down to the
piano, and began to warble and trill with the
full-throated rapture of a thrush In spring.
She fancied Basil listening to her ; she
fancied herself bringing down La Scala in'
thunders of applause, and gathering up gold
in bushels and pouring it out at his feet ; she
saw herself ministering to his wants, making
his home bright and beautiful, and setting
him free to work with a liberated mind in the
great cause he had espoused. Suddenly, In
the midst of these dreams, she remembered
that her music might drown the sound of his
ring, so she came away from the piano and
moved about, changing the chairs and the
books again, and smiling at everything, and
humming for very inability to check the joy
that was overflowing in her.

At last the bell sounded. She flew to the
door. But it was not Basil ; it was Madame
Blaquette. The landlady put her finger to
her lips, glided quickly in, closed the door,
and then, dropping her voice to a guilty
whisper :

Dear young lady,' she said, ' can I speak
in the strictest privacy ?'

Certainly, Madame Blaquette,' replied
Narva, in a high, cheerful tone ; she was ina
mood to enjoy the landlady's harmless little
peculiarities.

I have come to warn you of a great
peril,' whispered Madame Blaquette, squeezing
Narva's arm : * the police have got notice
that you have political papers here, and they
are coming up to search your place. Burn or
hide whatever you have ; but be quick ; there
is no time to lose !'

Narva could hardly trust her senses. Was
this a delusion, like the panic about the 
? Still, she had those papers.

Who told you the police were coming
here ?' she asked.

Dr. Schenk. He met me the other side
of the Place, and sent me back to warn you.
But make haste, or it will be too late !'

Narva's mistrust vanished at the mention
of Schenk's name. She looked round her
like a trapped creature seeking for some way
of escape. There was none ; there was no
fire where she could burn the papers ; and
there was not a hole or corner in the narrow
space where they would be safe for ten minutes
from the lynx eyes of the police.

I will take the papers and run down
to the Sisters she said.

Dear young lady, the police will meet
you. They are coming up the street !'

Then I am lost !' cried Narva, clasping
her forehead with both hands.

There was sound of men's footsteps in the
entry.

'Come,' she said; and seizing Madame
Blaquette by the wrist, she drew her over to
the alcove, dragged a box from under the
bed, unlocked it, and took out the ivory
casket which contained the papers and Basil's

articles, and thrusting it into the landlady's
hands, ' There ! hide it under your shawl,
and take it down to Soeur Marguerite forme.'
There was a ring at the door. ' Oh,
my God ! there they are !' she cried, turning
white to the lips.

There is a back way, if I can get out
through the kitchen window,' said Madame
Blaquette ; * bring a chair !'

They hurried to the kitchen. Narva
threw open the window, let down a chair,
helped the agitated landlady to step on it,
and then drew up the chair and shut the
window, and went back into the room. The
bell ran a second time. Narva, trembling in
her strong young limbs, walked to the door
and opened it.

Oh, Marguerite, it is you ! Come in
quick, ^ she cried breathlessly.

And she told her in a few hurried words
what had just happened.

And she is gone down with the box tome
?' said Marguerite ; ' then I must hurry
home, and be there to meet her.'

VOL. II. 32

Narva would have been thankful to have
the support of her presence when the police
came ; but It was all-important to get the
casket Into safe-keeping, so she did not
detain her.

Marguerite was not surprised on reaching
the House to find that Madame Blaquette
had not yet arrived : the back way made a
great round, and the old lady had probably
lingered to make sure of avoiding the police.
The dispensary window commanded the
court ; Marguerite went in there, so as to
see her the moment she arrived. But ten
minutes passed, and Madame Blaquette did
not appear. Could she have been seen
escaping from the window, and • followed and
arrested ? This was highly Improbable ; still,
when a quarter of an hour passed. Marguerite
grew nervous. There was no one to consult.
All the Sisters were absent on their rounds,
or engaged in the schools. Suddenly the
sound of a light hammer fell on her ear.
She opened a door off the dispensary ; It
was a closet into which they had smuggled

Antoine Drex. He was cobbling an old
boot, nailing a sole to it. Antoine was safe
as a tombstone, and cunning as a rat ; he
knew the police, and he knew every turn
of the lanes and courts through which
Madame Blaquette had to pass. Marguerite
told him what had happened.

Most likely she's hiding till she makes
sure those vermin are out of the way,' said
Antoine. ' Keep your eye on the gate, ma
soeur ; old Chaque will turn up.'

He nodded, and went on with his job ; but
he knit his brow with a scowl.

Take care you don't stay too long at that,
Antoine,' said Marguerite ; ' the blood might
go to your head, and bring on congestion.'

Oh ! I'm all right, ma soeur,' he replied,
nodding confidentially.

Marguerite felt a little reassured. She
went back into the dispensary, and kept her
watch on the gate ; but when half an hour
went by, and there was no sign of Madame
Blaquette, she could bear it no longer. The
suspense was intolerable. She resolved to

32—2

go back to Narva and see what had happened
there, at any rate. She opened the
door of the closet to tell Antoine she was
going ; but the place was empty. Where and
how had he gone off? She remembered
there was a way out by the garden, but he
must have got out of the window ; and why
on earth had he done this '^. He was to have
made his escape that evening, travelling in a
wine waggon till he got to Caen, when he
was to be rolled off the truck, and to make
his way on foot to St. Aubin, his native
village. It seemed to Marguerite that everybody
was on the wrong tack to-day. She
walked quickly back to Narva's. Her hand
shook as she pulled the bell, and she uttered
an exclamation of relief when Narva appeared.


Well ?'

There has been nobody. I begin to
think Madame Blaquette imagined the whole
thing.'

But the box } What has she done with
it?'

The box ? Hasn't she taken it to
you ?'

No ; she has never been near me

Narva turned deadly pale. A horrible
suspicion flashed through both their minds.

Oh, my God ! it was a trap,' said Narva ;
it was a trap set for Basil ! They must have
tracked him here last night.'

The scared expression on Marguerite's
face reminded Narva that she had not told
her about Basil's arrival.

^ Oh, darling !' she said, ' we have not had
a moment to breathe, or I should have told
you Basil has escaped : he is here in Paris.
He came to see me last night ; and I was
expecting him again this morning when that
dreadful woman came.'

Basil is here !' Marguerite repeated, in
blank amazement.

Yes ; he came late, about ten o'clock, and
stayed till midnight ; I watched him across the
Place ; there was not a soul about ; but those
bloodhounds must have tracked him !' She
wrung her hands in misery.

They stood silent, both their hearts beating
with terror.

Do you know at all what those papers
contained ?' Marguerite asked, under her
breath.

I fancy they were a political programme,
or something of that sort, drawn up by a man
who is dead since, Ivan Gorff told me. But
then there were those articles in Basil's own
handwriting. Oh !'

Marguerite did not know what articles
she was talking about ; Narva had never
told her of those translations, or of the
meeting.

Narva,' she said, laying her hand on
the girl's arm, ' do you think there was a
confession in them ? About Father Christopher
?'

I don't think so ; but I don't know. Oh,
Marguerite, what is to be done ?'

'Where is Basil staying?' asked Marguerite.


I never thought of asking him. But
Sibyl will know ; he is most likely with her

now, if Oh, my God ! I feel half mad !'

She put her hand to her forehead, and dropped
into a seat.

We don't know yet whether he is caught,'
said Marguerite, ' or even likely to be caught;
don't let us jump at the worst conclusion in a
minute. The whole thing may be a silly
scare of that old goose Blaquette's invention.'

But she said Schenk sent her to warn me.
How could she have known I had papers
unless he, or some one, told her T

There was no denying this.

Well, you can't sit here waiting to be
arrested,' said Marguerite. ' Put on your
bonnet, and go round by the back way and
take refuge with Madame Drex. And this
evening you can steal down to us.'

Narva heaved a great sigh, but she did not
move.

Dear Narva, for Basil's sake don't lose
heart !' Marguerite entreated. ' Get up and
go, and I will hurry off to Sibyl.'

Oh, Sibyl ! Sibyl !' Narva cried, in an
accent of poignant pain.

Go !' Marguerite persisted, trying to make
her rise.

Narva seemed incapable either of resisting
or deciding. She rose passively, and let
Marguerite help on her bonnet and cloak.

Let me see you safe out by the window
before I go said Marguerite.

But Narva, roused at last to some realization
of her position and of the necessity of
the moment, said that she must put away
some few things and lock her drawers. This
was reasonable enough, and Marguerite,
seeing that she had recovered her presence
of mind, was satisfied to leave her behind and
hurry off on her own mission. As they stood
at the door together, Narva took her in her
arms and kissed her, a long, loving kiss.

God bless you. Marguerite! You are
God's providence to me always.'

She opened the door to let her out. As
she did so, two men stood outside. One was
the Commissary of Police. He laid his hand
on Narva's shoulder and said :

I arrest you in the name of the Emperor T

THE PRIDE OF THE ZOROKOFFS.

Sibyl had returned to Paris the
moment the riots were over ; but
she had not ventured near the
disturbed quarters, nor had she seen Marguerite,
consequently when the latter walked
into her boudoir, half an hour after Narva's
arrest, Sibyl welcomed her with double
delight.

You haven't met him !' she exclaimed,

running to embrace her.

Whom ?' said Marguerite.

'Basil! — yes, Basil! He has only just

left me. He is gone off to see you and

Narva. He walked in here this morning,

and nearly killed me with the joy of the
surprise. You look as if you thought I had
gone crazy ; but it is perfectly true.'

I am only too glad to believe it,' replied
Marguerite, with disappointing calmness.
I am glad of good news from any direction.'

Why, what do you mean .-^ What has
happened .f^' Sibyl asked, in alarm.

Narva is in great trouble. She has been
arrested.'

'Arrested.'^ Here? Good heavens !' Sibyl
sat down.

Yes,' said Marguerite, sitting too ; * it
happened half an hour ago. I was there
when the police came.'

And what have they arrested her for V
Marguerite was embarrassed. If Basil

had not spoken of his engagement, it might
be indiscreet to mention the papers that had
been seized.

I heard nothing except that they had a
warrant to arrest her,' she said. But the perplexity
in her mind got into her face, and
Sibyl saw it.

You know more than that, Marguerite,'
she said. ' Has Narva been associating
with those wicked rioters up at La Villette ?'

A man who was wounded and pursued
by the police sought refuge with her one
night, and that may have been discovered.
But what is to be done ? How are we to
help her ? You must know hosts of people
who have influence? There is Prince
Krinsky ; you must go to him.'

But he is the Russian Ambassador !'

Well, and is not that a reason ? What
are ambassadors for but to help their countrymen
when they get into trouble ?'

That depends upon what the trouble is.
It is not likely our Ambassador would feel
it his duty to help any Russian for conspiring
against our Emperor.'

Why should you at once conclude that she
has been conspiring against your Emperor ?
My belief is, the whole affair is either a gross
mistake or some cruel trick, and if you won't
help her, I will ask Gaston to do it.'

As if I did not care a great deal more

than Gaston about Narva !' retorted SibyL
The fact is, I suspect I know more about
this arrest than you do. We were warned
months ago that Narva was associating with
disreputable people who would get her into
trouble. That Dr. Schenk that she had
attending her bears a very compromising
character. How came she to know him .'^'

Through Ivan Gorff. Ivan brought him
to her when she fell ill. That was not her
fault;

It was her misfortune, anyhow. It obliged
me to be very circumspect in my intercourse
with her. It would not have done for me to
become identified with a person who associated
with bad characters. My house is a
centre of Russian society in Paris, and though
I am now a Frenchwoman, it might have
injured my father and Basil if I had paraded
my friendship with a Russian who was on
intimate terms with conspirators.'

And so this was the not de rdiiigme, the
secret of the cold aloofness which had wounded
Narva so deeply.

I don't believe Narva has been associating
with conspirators,' said Marguerite. ' You
need not have been afraid of her compromising
you.' Then, after a moment's pause : * What
would they do to her if she were accused of
anything of that sort ?'

If she has mixed herself up in any treason
against the Emperor of France, the French
law would deal with her.'

But if it was against the Emperor of
Russia .'^'

In that case they would send her to Russia
to be tried.'

Oh r

If Sibyl's answer had been, ' They will
flog her to death,' the interjection could not
have expressed more horror. Marguerite's
look and tone seemed to hold a terrible
revelation.

Did Narva ever tell you about what
happened to her in the prison .^' Sibyl asked
in an altered manner.

She let me guess. Oh, Sibyl !' said
Marguerite, clasping her hands, and her eyes

filled with tears, ' how awful if she were to go
through that again !'

Sibyl changed colour, and stood up, and
moved restlessly about the room. Then, as
if conquered by some motive which bore
down all opposition, ' I will go to Prince
Krinsky,' she said.

Marguerite burst into tears, and kissed her.
They talked the affair over rapidly, and then
Marguerite, who had no time to lose, hurried
away.

Sibyl ordered the carriage and went to dress.
Just as she was ready to go downstairs, Basil
came back with M. de Beaucrillon. They
were both in high spirits.

You have not heard ?' said Sibyl : ' Narva
is arrested.'

Basil uttered a violent expletive in Russian,
and turned pale.

Arrested ! What for ?' said M. de Beau-crimson,
scarcely less shocked.

Marguerite, who told me about it — she
has only just gone — says she knows nothing
but the fact of the arrest. She was with

Narva when the police came and carried her
away.'

I must go to her at once,' said Basil,
picking up his hat, which he had dropped in
his excitement, and turning to leave the room ;
I must go to the prison and pay my way into
her. Where is the prison ?'

My dear Basil, you are the last person
who ought to go near her,' protested
Sibyl — ' you, who are so compromised yourself.'


Sibyl is right,' said M. de Beaucrillon.
You would only compromise her still more.
But what in Heaven's name has Narva been
doing to get into this new trouble T

Basil took a turn in the room, and then,
suddenly coming up to Sibyl, he said : * The
time has come for me to speak out : I am
engaged to Narva.'

What 7 Sibyl cried, almost with a
shriek.

Viable f exclaimed M. de Beaucrillon.

Then followed a pause of stupefied amazement
from both.

Yes,' said Basil ; ' the night I left Yrakow
I asked her to be my wife. I cannot see
why the news should strike you both dumb
with horror, as if it were a crime. Narva is
good, and gifted, and beautiful, and you, Sibyl,
have looked on her as a sister all your life.'

But Sibyl could not answer him ; the power
of speech seemed to have left her. She was
clutching the mantel, her face was blanched,
the colour had faded from her eyes, and they
stared fixedly at Basil with an expression that
was indefinable.

Mon cher ami,' said M. de Beaucrillon,
I must own I don't understand your wonder
at the effect of your announcement on my
wife. It is not such a surprise to me. I
always thought Narva's position in the
family was an anomalous one, and likely
to end in some cates — culmination of this
sort. I said so to Sibyl long ago, but she
ridiculed the idea and laughed at me.'

I don't see why the culmination should
have excited Sibyl's ridicule,' Basil retorted,
looking angrily at her.

One has not far to look for the reason,
nevertheless,' said Gaston ; ' Mademoiselle
Narva is undoubtedly all that you say, as
gifted as she is good ; but she is the daughter
of a Jewish trader, whereas you are '

Her affianced husband,' interrupted Basil.
Ah ! just so. Then there is nothing more

to be said, and it only remains for me to
congratulate you.' And M. de Beaucrillon
bowed stiffly.

Oh, Basil ! Basil !' Sibyl cried, and she
clasped her hands and burst into tears, and
flung herself sobbing on a couch.

So much for a woman's friendship !' said
Basil bitterly ; and he looked at his brother-in-law
as if expecting him to acquiesce in
the masculine sneer ; but M. de Beaucrillon
walked over and leaned against the chimney-piece,
looking down at his sobbing wife with
an air of unconcealed annoyance.

Look here, Sibyl,' said Basil, after a
momentary hesitation, * and you too, de Beau-crimson,
listen to what I have to say, and give
me a fair hearing. When I came back that

VOL. 11. . 33

evening with Father Christopher's pardon,
there was a warrant signed for my arrest : the
Stanovoi gave me notice, and offered to let
me escape before the warrant reached him if
I paid him fifty thousand roubles. I could
not by an)' possibility lay my hands on the
sum within the time : I had three hours to
find it. I knew you had not half the amount
with you, and there was no one else to call
upon. I was prepared to be arrested by ten
o'clock that night. I told Narva about the
warrant, and by mere chance I mentioned the
offer made me by the Stanovoi. She gave
me the money, and I escaped.'

Narva !' they both exclaimed, aghast.

Narva gave you fifty thousand roubles f
repeated M. de Beaucrillon, in a tone of dense
incredulity.

^ Narva,' replied Basil. ' It so happened
that that very day she learned that a legacy
of precisely fifty thousand roubles had been
paid into the hands of Perrow for her by
the executor of an uncle of Tante Nathalie.
Narva rode in to X , got the money, and

returned just in time. The Stanovoi, who
had had me closely watched, was lying
in ambush at the gate, and I paid him the
money. Before making my escape I asked
Narva to be my wife.'

Ma foi ! I don't see how you could have
helped it !' exclaimed M. de Beaucrillon,
with generous warmth ; * no man of honour
could have done less.'

I don't see that at all,' said Sibyl, whose
sobs and tears had been suddenly checked
by the counter-current of emotion ; ' I can't
see that honour made it necessary for him
to dishonour his family. It was most kind
and generous of Narva ; but any friend
worthy of the name would have done as
much. And, as far as that went, I would
have paid the debt, had I known of it,
within a month. I will do so now, and
twofold, tenfold, gratefully and willingly.'

There are debts that cannot be paid,'
said Basil, angry and hurt ; ' but the money
is the least part of what I owe Narva.' He
pulled at his moustache, and after a moment's

33—2

wavering, ' I had in my possession at the
time,' he continued, 'documents that were
then of great importance, and of the most
compromising character ; I could not destroy
them, and I dared not take them with me.
I asked Narva to keep them. I knew, and
she knew, that they would bring grievous
trouble on anyone with whom they were
found ; but she accepted the trust without
hesitating. The Stanovoi, who had seen her
with me to the last, and who no doubt discovered
that she had given me the ransom,
denounced her as having my papers. She
was arrested, and kept six months in prison.
God and herself alone know what she suffered
there ; but they got nothing out of her. She
left Kronstadt without having betrayed me
by a word.' He stopped, overcome for a
moment. ' You know the rest,' he went on
hurriedly. ' Tante Nathalie could not rally
from the shock. Narva came away amongst
strangers, first in one place, then in another ;
she suffered every sort of hardship ; and it
has been all my doing. And because I don't

throw her over like a heartless scoundrel,
you cry out that I am dishonouring myself!'


Narva is a noble creature,' said M. de
Beaucrillon, with genuine feeling. ' No man
worthy of the name could behave otherwise
than you are doing.'

Sibyl, who had entirely ceased crying, got
up and went over to Basil and kissed him.

Yes, Narva has behaved nobly,' she said,
and you are the most chivalrous of men.
For the sake of all she has done and suffered,
we will receive her as your wife.'

The concession was probably as much as
Basil ought to have expected from Sibyl
under any circumstances ; but he took it
coldly, and without a word of thanks or
comment.

The question now is,' said M. de Beau-crimson,
' what is to be done to get her out of
this fresh trouble. You have no idea what
has led to it ?'

I may still be the cause of it,' Basil
replied, remembering last night's visit, and

the possibility of its having been discovered.
She may have kept those papers ; it is very
possible

Then we must go to Prince Krinsky at
once said Sibyl

What has Krinsky to do with it ?' asked
Basil sharply.

If she has been watched by our police —
and nobody else had any motive in watching
her — Prince Krinsky will know, and he is
the only person who can help.'

Basil thought it very unlikely that the
Prince would help ; the name of Krinsky
had been as the seven devils let loose on him
all these months in St. Petersburg, and the
name of Zorokoff was no doubt in equally
bad odour with the Krinsky s. The ambassador
was not likely to extend his favour to
an offender identified with the family of the
man who had rejected Princess Marie.

Sibyl is right said M. de Beaucrillon ;
Krinsky is the person we must apply to,
and no time must be lost.'

I wish I could see Ivan before we move

in the matter,' said Basil, in evident perplexity.
He went to the window, and saw
that the brougham was waiting in the court ;
he pulled out his watch.

I think I could catch him by driving there
now. Yes, I will try and see Ivan ; he may
throw some light on the affair that will guide
us. Don't go to the Russian embassy till I
come back he said to Sibyl ; and snatching
up his hat, he hurried away, and in a minute
they heard the brougham driving out of the
court.

'Well!' said M. de Beaucrillon, flinging
himself into a chair, and he threw up his
hands in a gesture of utter amazement ; ' it is
the most astounding story that I ever heard !'

Sibyl tore off her bonnet and tossed it
from her, and pulled off her gloves in an
excited manner ; she seemed too agitated to
speak. softer a pause :

To think,' she burst out, ' that Narva
should have been all this time engaged to
him, and never told me ! The hypocrisy of
it is incredible. And to think of such a

scene going on that night at Yrakow, and I
left in ignorance of it !'

'She showed extraordinary self-control,
certainly,' said M. de Beaucrillon ; ' very few
women could have gone through such an
ordeal without betraying themselves. And
by heavens she does know how to love a
man !' he added, in a tone of admiration that
had a ring of envy in it.

Better than she knows how to love a
woman,' retorted Sibyl. ' To think that she
could be so treacherous !'

Sibyl could not wish that Basil should bea
scoundrel ; but neither could she face the
alternative. Surely, there must be someway
out of the difficulty ; surely, Providence
would rescue the Zorokoffs from this shame,
would save the holy place from that abomination
of abominations, Jewish blood ! She sat
still, except for the nervous mechanical action
of twisting her handkerchief into a rope, unconscious
that her fingers were tearing the
costly rag to shreds. The gong sounded,
announcing a visitor.

I hope no one is coming up here,' she
said impatiently. ' Ring to forbid it.'

M. de Beaucrillon rang the bell which
sounded the desired prohibition ; but before
a servant could appear, Marguerite walked
into the boudoir. They both greeted her
with an exclamation of relief.

Well, what news ? — have you seen her ?'
asked Sibyl.

No ; she has been before the Petit Parquet
all the morning ; but one of the officials
told me that she is to be taken from the
depot to-night to St. Lazar.'

Ah ! then there is a true case against
her ?' said Gaston : ' there will be a trial i^'

Evidently. But I shall see Narva herself
tomorrow.'

Oh, Marguerite,' cried Sibyl, 'you don't
know half the trouble ! Basil is engaged
to her ! he is going to marry her ! — Nm^ka f

Marguerite uttered something inarticulate,
and blushed slowly.

'Yes, it is not to be believed,' protested
Sibyl, misinterpreting the blush and the exclamation.

' And fancy her never breathing
a word of it to any of us ! — to me, that
she pretended to love so ! It is enough to
make one loathe the whole race more than
ever !'

M. de Beaucrillon shrugged his shoulders,
and turned away with an impatient expletive.


Perhaps Basil forbade her to tell,' Marguerite
pleaded.

Of course he did,' said M. de Beaucrillon,
facing round. * You talk like a fool, Sibyl !
And what difference would it have made if
sbe had told you ? Would that have reconciled
you to the marriage '^. Not a
whit.'

I should have felt that she had behaved
loyally to me.'

Bah ! Her loyalty was due to Basil ; and
she has proved it right nobly. The only
pity is she's not a Narichkin or a Woronsoff.
But I forgot,' said he, turning to Marguerite,
you have not heard the story yet.'

And he told her briefly of the ransom, the

flight, the papers left with Narva, and the
trouble they had brought upon her.

Oh, Sibyl ! is it any wonder that Basil
loves her ?' Marguerite pleaded. ' How
could he have done less than make her an
offer of his hand .f^'

Perhaps not,' replied Sibyl ; ' but Narva
took an unworthy advantage in accepting it.
She knew the offer was made in a moment of
extraordinary excitement, under almost overpowering
pressure of motives ; an honourable
woman would have said, 'await a year, and

then, if you are of the same mind, ask me

11 1
adam. *

I wonder how many men would have
been of the same mind at the end of a year T
said Marguerite, with a toss of her head.

M. de Beaucrillon looked at her in amused
surprise.

You little sceptic, where did you get your
estimate of us, I should like to know '^. I
dare say you are right enough, though,' he
added. ' All the same, I'm not sure but that
the sickles amongst us would prefer the

woman who took him at his word ; the
woman who loved him would be sure todo
that ; and Narva loves Basil, and no
mistake.'

Then, if she loves him, she must do him
good,' said Marguerite. ' Oh, Sibyl ! won't
you remember all she has suffered for Basil's
sake, and try to love her ?'

I have got first to try to forgive her,'
Sibyl replied coldly.

She looked as cold and hard as if she had
been turned to ice.

Marguerite had been prepared for a great
deal, but the sight of this frozen hardness
under that soft, smiling, sympathetic exterior
shocked her inexpressibly.

What is there to be done ?' she said,
addressing her brother : * Prince Krinsky
will help, will he not ?'

We don't know that yet.' replied Gaston.
If, as we fear — as Basil fears — the trouble
comes from meddling with Russian politics,
the Russian ambassador may refuse to
interfere.'

But he has a wife, a daughter ? Princess
Marie, who is young, surely she will be kind ?
Go to her, Sibyl, and tell her everything !
Tell her that Basil loves Narva, and is
engaged to be married to her.'

Sibyl gave a little sardonic laugh.

That would not be the way to touch her ;
no woman cares to help the rival who has
supplanted her. Marie would hate Narva ;
in her place, any girl would, unless she were
an angel.'

And why should she not be an angel ?
Nothing makes angels or devils of people
like believing them to be such. Go to Marie
as if you believed she was an angel ; tell her
everything, and trust to her pity and generosity.
Dear Sibyl, do !'

While Marguerite pleaded and entreated,
Sibyl seemed to be rapidly debating the
question in her own mind ; she was looking
fixedly out of the window, her features
agitated, her hands nervously moving in that
unconscious, mechanical twisting of her handkerchief.
Suddenly her brow cleared, like a

person who sees a way out of a difficulty, and
has determined to follow it.

Yes, you are right,' she said ; * that is the
best thing to do. We must wait till Basil
comes back, as we promised him, and if he
has no reason for preventing it, I will go at
once to Marie, and try if she is of the stuff
that angels are made of.'

Marguerite had now done all that was
possible for the moment ; so, promising tolet
them know when she had seen Narva,
she went away.

M. de Beaucrillon, observant of the
courtesies which French gentlemen never
fail in to the women of their family, saw
her downstairs, and then returned to the
boudoir. He was struck immediately by
the change that had taken place in Sibyl.
The strained, angry, perplexed look had
entirely passed away from her countenance,
and it now wore a resolute, almost a radiant
expression. Was it the hope of saving
Narva from a horrible fate that had suddenly
flushed her pale cheeks, and lighted those

lamps of triumph in her eyes ? What else
could it be ?

And yet, for the first time, as he looked
at his wife, M. de Beaucrillon did not think
Sibyl beautiful.

IN THE VISION OF THE NIGHT.

Area was alone in her cell at
St. Lazar. No one had been
to see her. She had waited and
watched all the long day. Every step
echoing on the stone corridor made her
pulses quicken with hope : it might be Marguerite,
or Sibyl, or even Basil. But the
day dragged on to its close, the bars and
bolts of the prison were drawn, and no one
came.

Narva had not slept the previous night,
and she had hardly tasted food since her
arrest ; she was physically exhausted, and
her nerves were strained and excited to the

verge of delirium. When the night closed
in, she was in the state of one prepared to
see visions.

For a while, the lamp burning outside sent
a tawny light into her cell through the
window above the door ; but this was put
out, and then all was black as the tomb,
and a horror of great darkness fell upon
her. She could not say how long it lasted,
until suddenly, the external blackness was
pierced through by a vivid inward illumination.
Her whole life, from childhood to the
present hour, passed before her, with its
sorrows, its blighted hopes, its pathetic
failures ; every circumstance became invested
with a high prophetic meaning, every cruel
and humiliating event grew instinct with a
supreme significance, every incident pointed
to momentous issues. Her faith, hitherto a
sort of dreamy mysticism, gradually kindled
to a fervour of frenzy, that she mistook for inspiration.
She saw the divine scheme for
the redemption of humanity unfolding before
her like a scroll, and she read her own part

VOL. II. 34

distinctly written there. God, who had
created and redeemed every individual souls
could not overlook the very least of His
creatures ; with Him, there was neither
greater nor lesser; the monarch on his throne
and the moudjik in his hovel were of equal
value in His sight ; the same hand which
fashioned the eagle, and bid it soar and fix
the mid-day sun, also created the worm, and
bade it crawl upon the earth ; and both were
His creatures, equally entitled to His care.
It was, nevertheless, in the order of His
providence that amongst men there should
be higher and lower ; that some should playa
grand part in life, and some an obscure
one ; that some should command and enjoy,
and even sin with impunity, while others
were condemned to suffer for the sins of all.
And these latter were His chosen partners
in the plan of redemption. They were to
enter into glory with Him through suffering,
and become like unto gods.

As the symbolism of her destiny revealed
itself to Narva, her heart swelled with a

sense of vengeful triumph. She exulted in
her Christ-like mission, and in spirit trampled
under foot the Pharisees and tyrants who
persecuted her. She saw her own name
written on the roll of martyrs, while angels
clothed her in crimson, and placed the palm-branch
in her hand, in presence of the rejoicing
hierarchies. How weak and cowardly it
would be to count the cost of such a destiny !
The night wore on in this frenzy of pride
and hallucination. The prison clock told
away the hours. The dawn broke ; but in
the cell all was still dark. Suddenly, a gleam
of light crept in through the window above
the door, and Narva, looking up as if something
had touched her, saw the white Figure
of the crucifix, alone visible in the encircling
blackness.

Yes,' she said within herself, ' it is we
who can look down from our gibbet on the
children of this world, the fools who feast
and revel, while we agonize with Christ in
His passion ! To us, instead of ashes, He
will give a crown, and a garment of glory

34—2

for an afflicted spirit. Those who have
dwelt in the tombs shall rejoice and sing
canticles, while those who have slept in
palaces on pillows of down shall howl tor
grief, and rend their garments !'

In the weird, shadowy daylight, her
thoughts grew concrete, and took tangible
form. She saw a long procession marching
past : victors and saints who had blessed
their generation, and left the world better
than they found it ; but they were not the
prosperous ones whose course had been
through flowery meads, full of sunshine and
peace ; they were men who had suffered,
who had known poverty, humiliation, and
defeat; never since the beginning of the
world had a nation's wrong been made right,
or a people's sorrow consoled, by the rich
and the satisfied, by those who had gone
through life making merry, crowned with
flowers, and sung to and smiled upon;
these conquests had been achieved by
pilgrims who toiled through the desert in
hunger and thirst and nakedness, or by

martyrs who walked over the fiery ploughshares.


Narva had always vaguely held that suffering
was in itself an agency of redemption,
and meritorious apart from all merit or response
in the sufferer. This old creed was
now asserting itself with the passionate
intensity which belongs rather to fanaticism
than to faith. She looked upon herself asa
victim for her people, an object of complacency
to the court of heaven. Her mind,
her senses, her heart, inflamed by these stern
and sanguine orthodoxy, all shared the
intoxication of the vision they had conjured
up.

But in this splendid apotheosis, where she
was the central figure, she was not alone — •
Basil Zorokoff was by her side, he was
whispering in her ear ; every fibre of her
heart was thrilling to what he whispered ;
she felt his breath upon her cheek, she felt
the warm clasp of his arm round her. Ah !
let fate do its worst upon her ; with that
arm clasping her, she could never be wholly

miserable. But suddenly the smile of rapture
that trembled on her lips died away. What
fool's paradise had she wandered into ? . . .
She was in prison, and so, perhaps, was Basil,
for all she knew. There was that box containing
the articles in his handwriting ! If
the writing should be traced ? Narva
shuddered, but, quickly dismissing the horrible
thought, she remembered that Basil was in
France, and that his own Government could
not touch him, and the French police were
not likely to be able to identify the writing of
a Russian.

The great clock struck five, and the profound
stillness began to be broken by those
sounds which announce, even in a prison,
that the inmates are awakening to the
activities of life. Warders came and went
along the flagged passages, doors were
opened and shut, the bell summoned the
prisoners to the scant morning meal. Narva
was not in the category of those who had
to obey its call. Her food was brought to
her. She was too faint and feverish to feel

any appetite ; but she knew that this was
partly the effect of hunger, so she ate a few
mouthfuls, and went back to her visions.

The morning wore on. It was near noon,
and she was still sitting on the edge of her
bed, listless, tired, her mind strained between
something like ecstasy and stupor, when
the door of her cell opened, and some one
pronounced her name. She started, stood
straight up, and felt herself clasped in
Sibyl's arms.

Basil ?' she said, in a frightened whisper,
as, disengaging herself, she fixed her passionate,
yearning eyes on Sibyl.

He has told us everything.'

And you forgive me? You forgive us
both ?'

Forgive you ! My brave, generous
Narva, what have I to forgive T

And Sibyl kissed her again tenderly, clingingly,
and then she drew her to the bed, and
they sat down together.

Narva was crying ; it was an immense
relief both to her nerves and her heart, and

Sibyl let the tears flow on, wiping them away
gently with her own little cambric handkerchief,
and kissing the heavy white lids between
whiles. But Narva was not one to
indulge long In the luxury of emotion. She
drew a deep breath, and then, lifting her head
from Sibyl's shoulder :

Tell me what has happened,' she said.
Has he been arrested ?'

'Who? Basil? No. Did you hear that
he had been ?'

I have heard nothing. I have seen
nobody. I thought Marguerite would have
come.'

She has been trying to get to see you
from the first ; but they made difficulties.
Gaston saw the president of the Petit
Parquet this morning.'

Ah ! And what did he tell him ? About
the articles in that box ? Do they know who
wrote them ?'

They have not got the box. It seems
that, as the detective was carrying it offa
man fell upon him and knocked him

down, and seized it and made away with

it;

Oh ! Who was the man, did they say ?'

He was a rebel, who had been wounded
in the head during the emeute. Gaston did
not hear his name.'

It was Antoine Drex !' Narva exclaimed,
with sudden elation.

Oh, Narva !' said Sibyl, shocked at what
seemed to her like cynical complacency in
the disreputable circumstances ; ' what could
have induced you to mix yourself up with
those low men and their politics ?'

I did not mix myself up with them,' protested
Narva. ' I have never meddled in
their politics here. Why should I ?'

But you have meddled in Russian politics.
They say you have been associating* with the
worst revolutionists, and frequenting their
meetings. They say you were at one on the
loth where a plot was discussed for murdering
our Emperor.'

That is a lie. I was not there. And if
I had been, I should certainly have not

voted for such an insane crime as that.
What stupidity ! What good could it do
to murder the Emperor '^ Who could have
said I was there ? Not that it matters.
Even if 1 had been, I am in a foreign
country, and beyond the reach of Russian
tyranny. Their slanders can't touch me
here.'

Dear, you are mistaken,' said Sibyl, with
a certain tender hesitation ; ' if it is proved,
or even asserted on good authority, that you
have been mixed up with the revolutionary
movement, the Russian law will reach you
here just as surely as if you were at home.'

How so ?' Narva started perceptibly.

If the Russian authorities demand it, our
ambassador will be obliged to claim you as a
Russian subject.'

'What do you mean ?' said Narva, turning
a white face to her.

Dearest, did you not know ^ As a Russian
subject, guilty of high-treason, you will
be handed over to our ambassador, and taken
back to be tried in Russia.'

Sibyl was not so certain that this was
true ; she believed it was, because she wanted
it to be true ; it was so essential to her
success that it must be true, and she spoke
with the quiet assurance of one whose knowledge
rested on the most undoubted authority.

Narva stared at her, every feature convulsed,
while a cold chill of horror stole the
heat out of her blood.

They will send me back to Russia ?' she
murmured, in a voice that sounded like a
whisper in the dark. Her lips fell slowly
apart ; there came a blackness under her eyes
as if they suddenly reflected some invisible
spectacle of woe or horror ; her hands opened
and closed nervously, and then crept slowly
up and coiled round her neck ; she presented
an image of terror and despair awful to
behold.

Sibyl watched her with intensely curious,
but not pitiful eyes : she pitied her sincerely,
but she pitied herself more ; she
wanted to save Narva, but she wanted first
to save Basil and the pride of the Zorokoffs.

The moment had now come, she thought, for
proposing the only expedient which might
do this. She laid her hand on Narva's tense
arm ; it shuddered under the touch.

'This is what I have dreaded from the
moment I heard of your being arrested she
said ; ' I lay awake all last night thinking
how I could save you, and praying to God to
show me a way. For, Narva, there is no
use in trying to deceive ourselves : you will
be handed over to the Russian Government
and taken to St. Petersburg, and then . . .
But, darling, there is one chance still of saving
you. I know not how to propose it, for the
sacrifice will be almost worse than the sacrifice
of your life.'

Narva did not make a sign, but sat staring
at vacancy, her eyes still riveted on that
unseen horror.

Beloved,' continued Sibyl, in a low,
caressing voice, ' if you are sent back to
Russia, it means Kronstadt ' — a tremor ran
through Narva — 'or Siberia; in either case
a fate as cruel as death ; and you are parted

from Basil for ever. If you give him up
voluntarily now, you will remain free, and you
will be still his sister and mine.'

Narva did not speak, but she moved her
head imperceptibly towards Sibyl ; the movement
seemed to say, ' What do you mean ?'

Sibyl stole one arm round her neck, and
speaking rapidly :

Oh, my darling,' she said, ' if I could take
the sting out of the sacrifice for you ! . . .
but the alternative is so horrible it will grive
you courage : Renounce Basil ; tell him you
have ceased to care for him ; that you will
not marry him, because you don't love him.
He will then be free to go and offer himself
to Prince Krinsky's daughter, and ask her to
obtain your release.'

Narva was moved at last from her stony
immobility. She slowly drew away her hands
from about her neck, and looked at Sibyl.

Tell hive that I do not love him ?' she
repeated. ' He would not believe me ; he
would know that it was a lie.'

He knew it once, dear ; but you may have

changed since then. How many women
would ! Remember, it is nearly two years
since you have met ?'

It is not three days ! I saw him here
before you did. He came to me the moment
he arrived in Paris, and he knows whether
or not I have ceased to love him ! Yes, he
knows ; he knows that I love him with my
whole soul ; that to give him up would be tome
worse than death, worse than Kronstadt !'

Her eyes, a moment ago fixed and lifeless,
grew suddenly incandescent as they met
Sibyl's, glittering with fury.

So you have been deceiving me to the
very last !' Sibyl cried, with a light laugh that
sounded horrid ; ' while I have been watching
and praying, and straining every nerve to
save you, you have been playing the hypocrite,
spreading your toils round my brother ! You
living lie ! You false friend ! You companion
of men who plot murder ! You base,
guilty woman !'

Guilty ?' repeated Narva, and she rose to
her feet, no longer the cowed, terror-stricken

creature of a moment ago, but a grand,
passionate woman, strong in her innocence,
and conscious of being set, by her sufferings,
high above this proud daughter of princes —
guilty ? Look at that symbol !' She laid
one hand fiercely on Sibyl's arm, and with
the other pointed to the white Figure on the
wall : ' We shall both of us be judged by It,
condemned or acquitted according to the
likeness we bear to It. Which of us, you or
I , as we stand here, most resembles Him ?
Is it you, with your wealth, your splendour,
and your high place in this world, your feasting
and purple and fine linen, your pampered
ease ? or I, in humiliation and poverty, in my
body seamed with scars, marked and cut with
the hangman's lash ' — Sibyl shrank from her
with a vow cry, and hid her face — ' with my
heart pierced by the murder of my kindred ;
with my soul made sorrowful to death by the
sufferings of my people, and the sight of the
wrongs inflicted on them by you and your
caste ? Is it I, in imprisonment and persecution,
in the martyr's death that perhaps

awaits me ? . . . Let the Christ speak, and say
which of us two is guilty, which of us two
deserves that glance of recognition reserved
to those who here below have been likened to
the Man of Sorrows !'

Narva had begun in a husky, agitated
voice, but as she went on it rose, under the
stress of irrepressible emotion, to high
vibrating tones. As she stood, pointing to
the Figure on the cross, Sibyl almost expected
to hear a voice resound in the dark
cell, uttering the awful sentence of acquittal
and denunciation : ' Come, ye blessed ! —
Depart, ye accursed !'

'Narva! Narva!' she cried, cowering before
the terrible wrath of the woman she had
scorned a moment ago, and who now stood
like the avenger of the brethren accusing
her before the judgment-seat ; ' why do you
curse me ? I have not done those things ; I
had no hand in the murder of your kindred,
or in the sorrows that have come upon you.
I have loved you always ; but you broke
away from me ; you turned against us, and

took part with those who hate us. Why did
not you trust me ? I wanted to save you —
God knows I did — and you upbraid me as if
I had been seeking to destroy you !'

But Sibyl too had had her hour of exaltation.
Her nerves, taxed to their utmost by
the strain of the last three days, broke down,
and she burst into a fit of hysterical weeping.

Narva seemed hardly conscious of her
presence. Her whole soul was torn asunder
by this choice that was thrust upon her, of
renouncing Basil, or going back to encounter
again those horrors of which she had never
before spoken to any human being.

The hour struck without either of them
hearing it ; but it was a relief to both when
the warder came and said it was time for
Sibyl to come away.

When the door had closed upon her,
Narva flung herself upon the bed, and her
bursting heart once more found relief in a
passionate flood of tears.

VOL. II. 35

PENDING THE TRIAL.

HEN Basil went in search of Ivan
on the morning of Narva's arrest,
he heard that his friend had left
town, and, as usual, without saying where he
was going, or when he would return. Basil
went every day to the house to inquire, and
on the fourth day, late in the afternoon, he
walked into Ivan's room, and found him
smoking a pipe, and reading the newspaper.

You have not heard what has happened ?'
said Basil, guessing from his quiet air and
occupation that he knew nothing.

What ?' said Ivan, removing his pipe, and
opening his eyes in hilarious curiosity.

Narva has been arrested. She has been
four days In prison.'

Ivan dropped the newspaper with an oath.

Basil related all he knew of the event. 'Who
has done it ?' he said. ' Can it be Schenk i^'

Ivan did not answer. He laid his clenched
hands on his knees, and bent forward. He
knew of Schenk's passion for Narva, and
Olga Borzidoff knew it ; she had complained
bitterly to Ivan of Schenk's unfaithfulness,
and she was a violent, vindictive woman,
whose jealousy would be unscrupulous. If
Schenk had let out the fact that Narva had
documents in her possession, Olga would not
have hesitated to use the knowledge in order
to destroy her. There was no use, however,
in confiding these suspicions to Basil.

Schenk has never done it,' he said ; ' he
is not capable of It ; but he may have been
fool enough to let out something that compromised
her. If he has, he deserves the
knout !' Ivan ground his teeth with a sinister
sound, ' But the thing is, what is to be done
for her ? Your sister must have interest at

35—2

Court. She will use it, won't she ? Napoleon,
for all he is a despot, has a man's heart, and
can be pitiful, and the Empress is a woman.'

That won't help, if it can be proved that
Narva has been mixed up in our work. If
they accuse her of offending against the
French law, well and good ; the people here
may help ; but if not, there is no one but
Krinsky who could do it, and in that case my
sister must go to him at once.'

She can't go to him to-day, nor tomorrow
either ; he left Paris last night for Berlin.'

Confound it ! did he ?' said Basil, turning
suddenly round. ' And when is he to be

back r

I don't know. He is to stop at Berlin
two days, and then, unless his business is
arranged at once with Bismarck, he will go onto
St. Petersburg.'

Have you any idea when the trial is likely
to come on ?' asked Basil.

I don't suppose before a month at least.'

And they will keep her in prison all that
time untried ?'

Yes. They have got their prison preventive
here Hke us, for all their boasted
liberty and justice. But it will serve a good
purpose for once by giving Krinsky time to
be back before the trial comes on.'

Basil said nothing for a moment. Then,
We can't wait for Krinsky to come back
he said ; ' I must start after him at once, and
secure him before he leaves for St. Petersburg.
If I take the express to-night, I am safe to
catch him at Berlin. I shall be able to get

to see him through Z , of our embassy

there. He is not a bad fellow, and though
my father made a mess between him and me,
I don't believe he is as savage against me as
they made out. Anyhow, there is nothing else
to be done. I will drive now to Sibyl's, and
tell her I am off.' He pulled out his watch :
It is five o'clock ; I have a couple of hours
to do a few things, and eat a mouthful before
I start.'

Basil hurried away, hailed a cab, and drove
to the Rue St. Dominique.

Sibyl was out. She had left home three

hours ago, the servant said, so was Hkely to
be soon back. But Basil could not wait.
He went into the library, and wrote a note to
M. de Beaucrillon, telling him of his departure
for Berlin, and the motive of it.

Sibyl, meantime, had gone to make a call
at the Russian embassy, and had learned
to her disappointment that the Prince had
left the night before for Berlin, and the ladies
for Fontainebleau that morning.

As she drove in under her own gateway,
M. de Beaucrillon's brougham was moving
away from before the steps of the house. He
met her in the hall with two letters in his
hand. One was Basil's, the other was from
Marguerite.

Come in here a moment,' he said, and
they went into the library. ' Here is a slate
on our heads !' he exclaimed : ' Basil is off to
Berlin after Krinsky, and Marguerite tells me
the trial comes on on Monday. It may be
all over before Basil will have seen Krinsky.
Though, for the matter of that, we don't
know yet whether Krinsky can be of any use.'

Sibyl took the two notes from his hand
without speaking. There is an electric,
instantaneous comprehension that comes to
the brain in moments of supreme excitement,
and enables it to seize all the points of a
question, and arrive at a conclusion without
a.iy process of argument. Such a moment
had come to Sibyl now. With one glance,
she saw the whole situation, the circumstances,
the possibilities. Basil's absence at this crisis
was providential. The trial would be over,
perhaps, before he heard it had begun, and
there was an end of the terror which had
haunted her of his appearing in court and
publicly compromising himself from a sense
of chivalrous loyalty to Narva.

I must see at once about getting counsel,'
said M. de Beaucrillon, too helplessly absorbed
in Narva s trouble and the impending crisis
to stop to consider the motive of his wife's
silence. ' There is no time to lose. 1 will

go at once to Maitre X . If I am late

for dinner, don't wait for mem

COURT.

T was not often that so great a treat
as this trial of Narva's was provided
for the sensation-loving
Parisian public. The prisoner was a yoimg
girl of rare beauty and brilliant gifts, and
among the witnesses were to figure a grande
dame and a Sister of Charity.

The court was densely filled long before
the entrance of the judge ; but curiosity
reached its climax when the door opposite
the judgment-seat opened, and the prisoner,
walking between two gendarmes, was led to
the bar.

Narva had been so exhausted and strained

by the week's imprisonment that, on the eve,
it had seemed to her impossible she could go
through the ordeal of this trial ; but when
the morrow came, and with it the challenge
for immediate effort, her splendid young
vitality asserted itself, and her high courage
rose to the occasion. She was luminously
pale, but there was no lack of fire in her eyes,
and no trace of weakness in her bearing, as
she stood at the bar. A murmur, partly of
admiration, partly of curiosity, rose from every
part of the audience ; but this quickly subsided,
and profound silence reigned in the court.

The case against the prisoner was briefly
stated : from the time of her arrival in Paris
she had consorted with conspirators of
various nationalities, and attended revolutionary
meetings where plots were hatched
against the governments and the lives of
kings ; she had gone to live in a district
where disaffection was rampant ; she had
received treasonable documents, and sheltered
ringleaders of the recent dilute, notoriously
bad characters, etc.

After this preliminary discourse, the judge
proceeded to examine the prisoner, to inquire
her name, her parentage, her present circumstances,
putting her through that minute and
elaborate legal inquisition which assumes that
the court has not the most remote idea who
the prisoner is, where he comes from, or
what has brought him to the bar.

Narva gave her answers in a firm, distinct
voice which betrayed no weakness of emotion.
Perhaps this was because she felt none ;
absolute despair had made her stoical : in
ceasing to hope, she ceased to tremble. She
had come here prepared to meet the worst ;
not merely death, but that worse fate which
awaited her if she was handed over to the
Russian authorities. She was still in the
dark as to the probabilities of this alternative.
If she was convicted to-day of active participation
in a plot to assassinate the Emperor
of the French, she would, no doubt, be condemned
to the guillotine. This was the best
fate she could hope for. She did hope for it.

A great orator once said, ' Homme qui

veut mourir est toujours le maitre de Homme
qui veut vivre.' Narva was conscious of
holding this supreme command over the
mass of humanity whose hungry curiosity
was devouring her humiliation. There was
probably not one man in all that crowd who
despised death as she did, who would have
faced it so fearlessly ; and this proud sense
of superiority, real or imaginary, helped to
keep her pulses steady, and her voice from
faltering.

The judge, involuntarily perhaps, paid her
that tribute of respect which high courage
commands under all circumstances. He
questioned her searchingly, but his manner
from first to last was civil. Narva came
through the ordeal without having damaged
her cause by an imprudent avowal, or a weak
denial. The examination, if it did not prove
anything, impressed the court personally in
her favour.

The first witness called up was Olga
Borzidoff. She swore that the prisoner had
to her knowledge habitually frequented revolutionary

meetings, and that on the loth
instant she had been present at one where a
scheme for the assassination of the Emperor
of the French had been arranged, and the
prisoner was chosen by lots to give the signal
for throwing the bomb-shell into his carriage ;
the witness had been so horrified by the
proceedings and plans discussed at this meeting
that she had gone immediately and given
warning to the police ; she had herself
assisted at former meetings of the sort,
ignorant of their sinister character ; but her
eyes had been opened on this occasion, and
her conscience awakened. Olga Borzidoff
deposed in a spirit of vindictive personal
rancour which greatly damaged the weight of
her evidence, and, at last, she became so
violent and aggressive that the judge was
obliged to call her to order.

Madame Blaquette was next called up, and
came on whining and whimpering, and conveying
her distress to Narva by side-glances
and gesticulations. She gave her evidence
incoherently, contradicting herself at every

sentence ; she had been beguiled and deceived,
she said, by a beggar-woman towards
whom she had exercised benevolence to the
utmost extent of her means, having on one
occasion given the last penny she possessed
to relieve her wants ; the woman's ingratitude
was a bitter drop in the cup of her
manifold disappointments. The landlady
was wandering on to explain the nature of
these disappointments, when the judge cut
her short, and after a series of direct questions
discharged her. Her evidence had
neither served nor hurt Narva.

Several other witnesses, friends of Olga
Borzidoff, were heard, and these swore to thee
prisoner's presence at the meeting on the
loth. This testimony was, so far, the only
substantial charge against her. Then the
counsel for the Crown made his charge, and
the witnesses for the defence followed.

The first called was the Comtesse de
Beaucrillon. Sibyl was one of those persons
whose charm never deserts them under any
circumstances. As she advanced now to the

witness-box, leaning" on her husband's arm,
she looked just as charming, just as much at
her ease, as if she had been taking part in a
Court ceremonial, or dispensing cups of tea
in her boudoir. She sat down with that
languishing grace which always suggested a
nymph sinking into the water, and then drew
off her gloves, and pulled out her Lilliputian
handkerchief, scattering a scent of violets
that perfumed deliciously the heavy air
around her.

After the preliminary formula of questions,
the judge said :

How long have you known the prisoner ?'

All my life, monsieur. We were brought
up together ; we studied together ; we were
like sisters.'

The prisoner is charged with having
become acquainted with revolutionists, and
been cognizant of plots against the life of the
Emperor of Russia, even while under the
roof of Princess Zorokoff.'

Ah ! Monsieur le President, such charges
are wicked slanders. My sister Narva was

too pure and good to associate with any
but those who were pure and good like
herself.'

There was an indescribable charm in the
way Sibyl said ' my sister Narva,' in her
softly agitated voice.

Madame continued the judge, ' the court
cannot accept sentimental evidence, however
convincing it may be Can you assert upon
your oath that, to your knowledge, the
prisoner never associated, was never in communication,
while in Russia, with any persons
disaffected toward the imperial government
?'

Sibyl seemed too horrified to answer. With
a marvellous play of feature she looked up at
her husband, and clasping her hands nervously,
looked back at the judge.

'Am / suspected of being disaffected to
the Emperor's government }'

Nothing could have been more perfect
than the little bit of comedy ; her face and
her hands expressed amazement, amusement,
and wounded loyalty all at once, and the

pantomime told more effectively in Narva's
behalf than if Sibyl had solemnly sworn to
belief in her innocence.

You, madame, are absolutely above suspicion,'
protested the judge, feeling that he
had made a mistake in rousing the sympathies
of the public on the side of this
sensitive, high-bred lady by inferentially
accusing her of a vulgar crime.

Sibyl saw her advantage, and immediately
the great crystal drops welled up into her
light blue eyes and trembled there, and then
rolled off her curled lashes. She was one
of those dangerous, not-to-be-trusted women
to whom tears are becoming, and she knew it.

I beg your pardon, M. le President,' she
said, her voice quivering with repressed
emotion ; * but if you have ever had a sister
whom you loved and trusted with your whole
heart, you will understand that I cannot listen
unmoved to such horrible insinuations against
mine.'

Overcome by her feelings, she covered her
face and sobbed gently.

A ham of admiration and respect made
itself heard in the court.

Sibyl, after struggling for a moment with
her emotion, lifted her head with the air of
one nerving herself for courageous effort, but
the judge, obeying the murmured desire of
the court, said :

The witness may retire. Let Soeur Marguerite
be heard.'

No more striking contrast could have been
found than that which this witness presented
to the last. Instead of the blonde dligante,
trailing her silken skirts with undulating grace,
scattering the scent of violets around, and
playing on the court with her wiles, her
sudden tears, her harmonies and blandishments,
there appeared at the bar a small,
well-shaped young woman clothed in a gray
woollen gown and a broad white head-gear,
from under which there looked out a youthful
face with irregular features, a nose full of
character, imperceptibly retroussd, and a pair
of wistful brown eyes alight with courage,
simplicity and truth. The shapely hands,

VOL. II. 36

roughened with work and the weather, were
slipped Into her wide sleeves, and Marguerite
in the witness-box looked like a diligent little
scholar who came up for examination, primed
and loaded, afraid of nothing except of being
confused Into a wrong answer from nervousness.


What is your name ?' asked the judge.

Soeur Marguerite, M. le Juge.'

Say M. le President,' corrected some one
in a sot to voce,

Pardon ! M. le President,' she repeated
with a blush.

The usual interrogations followed, and then
the judge said :

Why did the prisoner go to live at La
Villette ?'

Because it is cheap, M. le President.'

How did she spend her time there, do
you know ?'

She gave lessons, M. le President ; and
she went about with me visiting the sick poor.
She is a capital sick-nurse.'

Did she not keep low company }'

She kept company with me, M. le
President.'

You know what I mean, ma soeur ; she
associated with the bad characters of the
place ?'

So do I and my sisters, M. le President.'

Vive Soeur Marguerite !' shouted a voice,
and the cry was taken up in chorus at the
end of the hall, where La Villette was largely
represented.

The judge turned round angrily ; but before
he could speak, Marguerite drew her hand
from her sleeve, and made a little downward
gesture, as if she were slapping a naughty
child.

Hush, will you !' she cried ; * do you
want to get me into trouble ?'

This irregular proceeding had the desired
effect, so the judge overlooked it, and went
on :

You are acquainted with a man named
Antoine Drex ?'

Yes, M. le President ; I have long been
acquainted with Antoine Drex.'

36-2

He bears a detestable character : a rioter,
a drunkard ; he was a notoriously bad
husband ; he used to beat his wife ?'

Marguerite put her head first a little to
one side, then a little to the other, like a
meditative robin.

Well, M. le President, he was not a model
husband ; but his wife was very aggravating;
she had a tongue that was going all day long ;
and she took to drink before he did. Our
sisters always pitied Antoine very much.'

What ! a wicked revolutionist who incited
the people to bloodshed ?'

M. le President, he was not so bad as
that; d'etat un desespere, mais pas un revoke.
That is the difference. When he was out of
work and had no food, the hunger went to
his head. It is so with them all. But he
was not a bad fellow ; he loved his mother,
and was always good to her ; and he would
often share his crust with a hungry
neighbour

So would any man who was not a brute.'

Ah ! M. le President, if that were true,

there would be no Smites. It is hunger that
sends the ouvrier down into the street. He
is not wicked ; he is a good fellow if you give
him bread enough ; but he goes mad on an
empty stomach, and that hunger-madness is
the worst of all !'

There was a murmur in the court expressing
horror and assent.

That is a subject that would carry us too
far from the point in question, ma soeur,' said
the judge : ' the question is, did the prisoner,
knowing the character Antoine Drex bears,
associate with him, and connive at his evil
doings by hiding him from the pursuit of the
law?'

M. le President, I cannot answer for the
other people who hid Antoine from the police ;
but I don't deny that we did. He came tous
one morning and asked us to shelter him,
and we let him in, and he went away without
telling us.'

• Yes, he went away to intercept the police,
who had just got possession of a box containing
papers that would have convicted the

prisoner beyond any doubt. Ma soeur, do
you know what those papers were ?'

No, I do not ; I never saw them ; and
Mademoiselle Larik never told me what they
were

You know that she held revolutionary
doctrines, and connived at, if she did not
participate in, the crime of regicide ?'

I know nothing of the sort, and I don't
believe a word of it.'

She frequented meetings where such plots
were discussed ?'

If she did, it must have been as the
prophet Daniel frequented the lions' den :
she was taken there by force or by fraud.
But I don't believe she was ever present at
such a meeting.'

There are witnesses to swear that she was
present at one where she was designated as
an accomplice in an attempt on the life of the
Emperor.'

Monsieur le President, if a court full of
witnesses swore to that, I would not believe
them.'

IN COURT, 247

How if they proved it, ma soeur ?'

Above all, if they proved it ! What a
pitiful sort of faith that must be that could be
invalidated by proofs !'

There was a laugh in the court. The
judge peered over his spectacles at the
witness, as if debating whether to join, at
least tacitly, in the inducement hilarity, or
call her to order for disrespect to the solemnity
of justice. His human sympathies and
his sense of humour prevailed.

Ma soeur,' he said, and his sharp eyes
twinkled injudiciously as they peered at her
through his glasses, ' your doctrine concerning
faith and testimony differs in toto from
that of the court. There are witnesses to
prove that on the loth inst. the prisoner was
present at the meeting in question, and that
evidence makes fatally against her, unless
you can bring forward witnesses to swear
that she was in some other place that day
while the meeting was going on.'

Marguerite's face lighted up with a triumphant
expression.

On the loth ?' she said. ' At what hour
was the meeting, M. le President ?'

From one in the afternoon to past three.'

Then I can swear, and bring others to
swear, that she was not present at it ! She
was with me, visiting a sick child.'

There was a sudden excitement in the
court at this.

You are sure of that, ma soeur ?'

I am perfectly sure of it.'

And you say there were others present ?'
Marguerite hesitated a moment : Antoine

Drex and his old mother were not imposing
witnesses to bring forward.

There was a crowd outside who saw us
both come out of the house where Mademoiselle
Larik had been singing to the child.
I can easily find out some of the people who
were there.'

Marguerite was conscious of a certain
collapse in the strength of her testimony
when it came to producing it ; but the court
was with her, and she felt it. Her own
word, her oath, would weigh with them and

with the jury more than a score of the most
creditable witnesses that could be brought
forward, and the timid humility which seemed
to make her forget this, and lose sight of her
own value altogether, only made her more
admirable and sympathetic. A rare and
winning advocate she was in her weakness
and her courage, her pathos and her humour,
clothed in the garb of that voluntary poverty
which, in its heroic renunciations, represents
the most persuasive power on earth.

And you can swear yourself that you were
with her on the loth at the hour named ?' said
the judge.

I can swear it. She came down to the
House just after our dinner, and she stayed
with me till I went out, and then came with
me to Antoine Drex's room, where she sang
a little sick child to sleep.'

There was a murmur of sympathy from
every part of the court ; it rose almost to a
cheer. Narva's eyes were fixed on Marguerite
as if she could not look away ; the half-fierceness
had melted out of her face, and, in spite

of her immobility, those dark eyes, burning
under her level brows, betrayed the relenting
emotion that was Invading and disarming
her.

The judge was going to speak, when a
movement at the door arrested his attention.
A messenger full of haste pushed his way to
the judgment-seat, and a short parley followed
between him and the judge.

Marguerite had recognised the Commissary
of Police from La Villette. She was alarmed,
but not much surprised, when, on turning
from the judge, he came straight up to her.
The curiosity of the audience was greatly
excited, and it was not allayed when the
Commissary, having made some communication
to Marguerite, which she received with
evident horror and amazement, hurried away
with her from the court.

It had seemed to Narva before entering the
court that no chance of escape, or acquittal,
remained to her, and in crossing the threshold
of the judgment-hall she had left all hope outside
; but as the trial went on, and nothing

transpired to incriminate Basil, and as one
witness after another failed to substantiate
any charge against herself, her spirits rose :
she began to hope, and "she began to tremble.
The only serious point made against her was
by Olga Borzidoff, who had sworn to her
presence at the meeting on the loth, and to
her having been designated there to give the
signal for throwing the bomb-shell ; but this
false testimony had been wholly refuted by
Marguerite, who had carried the court along
with her, and turned the current of justice and
of public sentiment strongly in favour of the
prisoner.

The judge himself shared this general feeling,
but there was nothing in his countenance
or manner which had led Narva to suspect it;
and when, using his judicial prerogative of
addressing and questioning the prisoner as
often and as freely as he thought fit, he suddenly
began to interrogate her again, she felt
herself at a grievous disadvantage. The
stony phlegm of despair had deserted her,
the revival of hope made her heart beat ;

she was nervous and excited ; and there was
a perceptible tremor in her voice, very unlike
the clear metallic tones of some hours
ago.

Can you recall any circumstance demanded
the judge, ' which would help to
prove the alibi sworn to by the last witness
?'

I can, M. le President,' Narva answered
quickly ; ' I had lost my voice for more thana
month, and that day, when I was with Soeur
Marguerite, it suddenly returned. It was very
unexpected, and I was greatly excited by it ;
so was Soeur Marguerite.'

Can you call any witness to prove that
you had lost your voice before that
day r

Yes ; M. le Docteur X could certify

to the fact ; he gave me a consultation not
long before. I do not recall the date ; but he
probably could.'

The judge was going to put another question,
when a note was passed up to him. He
read it, and recognised the signature as that

of a detective well known to the authorities,
and highly esteemed for his honesty and
skill.

You may sit down,' the judge said to
Narva. Then he added, * Let Jean Godart
come forward

A middle-aged man, dressed like a well-to-do
workman, stepped into the witness-box.

Narkas heart began to sink again with
terror. Was this a false witness come to
spring a mine under her feet ?

The witness having stated his name and
surname, and his trade of cabinet-maker, the
judge said :

You were present that afternoon when the
prisoner sang in the room occupied by Antoine
Drex and his mother ?'

M. le President, I was amongst the
crowd under the window, and I waited to
see the singer come out. I wanted badly
to see her. I did not see her face well, for
she wore a veil, and a hat that came down
over her forehead ; but I noticed her figure.'

Was the prisoner alone ?'

No ; she was with Soeur Marguerite. It
was Soeur Marguerite who told us she had
been singing to the sick child.'

Why did you want so badly to see the
prisoner ?'

Because of her voice : it was the most
wonderful voice I ever heard. I am fond of
a good song. It is my petit vice. I spend
many a franc on a ticket up with the gods
when a great singer comes to Paris. I have
heard the best of them these twenty years
past, but I never heard anything like the
voice of the person who sang that day in the
Cour des Chats.'

'- What was it like ? Describe it to the
court.'

The witness shook his head.

It would be a difficult thing to describe
he said, with a humorous smile ; ' but if these
gentlemen * — looking up at the jury — ' can
fancy a score of nightingales in a woman's
throat, with old cognac and oil poured out
all together, they will have some idea of the
effect.'

The jury were evidently amused, and the
public laughed.

You would know the voice if you heard it
again ?'

Parbleu ! If I would know it ! It made
the blood run warm in my veins. I should
know it amongst a thousand !'

You remember what the song was ?'

The first was '

Stop !' interrupted the judge quickly ;
'write down the name, and send it upto
me.'

While the witness proceeded to do as he
was desired, a movement rose and spread
in the court. It was arrested immediately
when the judge, after reading the paper
handed up from the witness, said to the
prisoner :

Can you tell the court what you sang that
day ?'

I sang first a Russian ballad, and then
Mignon's Lament." '

Narkas countenance, for all her self-control,
showed plainly with what intense anxiety

she was waiting to hear whether the testimony
of the detective would corroborate this answer.
The court, too, was hushed in breathless
expectation.

The witness said the judge, ' has written,
'' A song in a language I did not understand,
and then a song in French that ended, at
every verse, Laissez-moi mourir f* '

A perfect shout of exultation rose from
every part of the hall Narva flushed crimson,
and then grew very white ; she had
to clutch the rail in front of her, to save
herself from falling.

The prisoner's counsel now followed with
his plea, and then the jury retired to consider
the verdict.

They returned in ten minutes with one of
acquittal.

LARCHOFF S MURDERER.

VAN GORFF had deemed it more
prudent, both for Narva and for
himself, not to be present at the
trial, where there was sure to be a large contingent
of Russian spies, as well as French
detectives. But when the day of the trial
came he found it hard to keep away. The
suspense and anxiety were almost unbearable.
It was not possible to stay quietly indoors, so
he went out and walked about the streets
like a troubled spirit, going from one haunt
to another, as if something unexpected might
turn up to help Narva, or throw light on the
unknown authors of her arrest. The more he

VOL. II. I']

258 Narva,

thought of it, the stronger grew his fear that
Schenk had betrayed her. The idea, which
had at first been repulsed as a groundless
suspicion, took shape when he found that
Schenk had left town the day before the
arrest ; and then, as the days went by, and
he neither came nor wrote, suspicion grew,
and hardened into conviction. Ivan had
quickly detected the German's passion for
Narva, and shrewdly suspected that Schenk
had declared it ; and if so, he had of course
been scornfully rejected. As Ivan paced the
streets he pictured to himself the scene :
Narva startled into indignant surprise, answering
him with two flashes of lightning
from her dark eyes, and Schenk, goaded out
of his cold-blooded sleekness, pressing his
suit ; then perhaps threatening — for she was
in his power to an extent. Ivan's blue eyes
scintillated with inextinguishable laughter ashe
clenched his hands, swinging heavily by
his side, and tramped on.

Partly drawn by these cogitations, and
partly obeying the blind impulse that

prompted him to pursue his aimless march,
he walked on to La Villette and to Narva's
house. The place looked just as if nothing
had happened ; she might have been sitting
inside at her work ; the door on the street
stood open as usual. Ivan stepped in. It
was dark in the narrow entry after the
brilliant sunshine, but there was light enough
for him to see a man standing at the door of
the landlady's rooms, opposite to Narva's, as
if waiting to be let in. Ivan at a glance
recognised Schenk.

The two were equally surprised to meet.

Oh, it is you !' said Schenk, coming forward,
and he held out his hand.

Ivan fell back a step.

How much money did they give you for
it ?' he said, hissing out the words between his
teeth.

What do you mean V demanded Schenk.

You know what I mean. How much did
they give you for selling Narva Larik to the
police here ?'

Look here,' said Schenk, and he came

37—2

a step nearer, fixing his green eyes on
Ivan'Sj that were blazing like a tigers ; ' take
back that lie, or I'll knock it down your
throat !'

Ivan clenched his hand, and hit out at him;
but Schenk, stepping aside in time, avoided
the blow, and Ivan struck the wall with his
might, breaking his knuckles with the violence
of the collision. The pain blinded and
maddened him for a moment, and before he
had recovered his senses, Schenk drew his
cane-sword and ran him through the body.
Ivan staggered, and then fell heavily to the
ground.

Schenk knelt down, wiped his blade carefully
in his victim's coat, slipped it back into
the cane, and walked away.

Nobody passed through the entry for
nearly an hour. Then a lace-mender who
lived on the fifth story came down, and,
hurrying out, knocked her foot against the
prostrate body. Her scream brought in a
woman who was passing.

A man murdered !' exclaimed the two,

peering down at the white face, and then
at the pool of blood around.

In five minutes a crowd had collected ; in
five more the Commissary of Police was there,
taking down ih^ process-verbal. Before he had
finished the doctor arrived.

Life is not extinct,' said the medical man,
after putting his ear to Ivan's heart. ' Is
there a room where he could be taken, close
by, here on the ground-floor ?'

Some one ran to the concierge and got the
key of Narva's door, and Ivan was lifted in
and laid upon the bed. Then restoratives
were quickly applied, and the wound was
attended to. Gradually consciousness returned.


Ivan carried his blank gaze round the
room, and began to realize where he was.

Have they condemned her ?' he asked, ina
faint voice.

Ah ! it was, then, a woman ?' said the
Commissary, and out came his pencil to add
this point to the pisces-verbal. ' Do you
know her ? Could you identify her ?' Then,

as Ivan only stared at him vacantly, ' The
woman who stabbed you ?' he explained.
Try and remember. We found you lying
in the entry badly wounded. Do you know
who stabbed you ?'

But the wounded man turned his head
away, and moaned impatiently. At a sign
from the doctor the Commissary collapsed.

'He is too weak ; he has lost a deal of
blood. I must go down to the Sisters and
get some one to come up and attend to him,'
said the medical man.

Soeur Marguerite,' Ivan said, with an
effort ; * tell Soeur Marguerite to come tome.'


Everybody at La Villette knew that Soeur
Marguerite was away at the trial.

I will ask for Soeur Marguerite,' replied
the doctor ; ' but she may not be in the way ;
I must take whoever is.'

No, no ; Soeur Marguerite,' Ivan insisted ;
if she is still in the court, send and say
I want to see her ; I have something to say,
and there is no time to lose. Be quick !'

The Commissary, guessing that the something
was connected with this attempt on
his Hfe, hurried out and called a cab, and
drove to the court, where, as we know, he
found Marguerite, and took her back with
him.

The errand had been done with great
haste, but Ivan's feverish impatience had
found the time never-ending.

Ah ! you are come ; thank God !' he exclaimed
the moment she appeared. ' Get a
pencil, and write what I am going to tell you.'

But you are too weak ; I had better wait,'
she urged gently.

No, no ; there is no time. I have
strength enough, if only there be time.
Write.'

Marguerite drew her big pocket-book from
her sleeve, and held her pencil ready.

You remember that All Souls Eve at
Yrakow ?' Ivan began. ' My sister Sophie
was coming through the vv^ood in the afternoon.
She met Larchoff. He stopped her,
and ' A spasm passed over Ivan's face ;

.*

he struggled for a moment with pain, or with
emotion, and having mastered it, went on :
She escaped from him. . . . I saw her flying
across the road towards our gate ; she was
half mad. . I went straight into the sacristy,
and took Father Christopher's gun. . I
knew where he kept it, and I knew it was
loaded. . I hurried back to the forest, and
overtook Larchoff, and shot him.'

Marguerite uttered a cry, and dropped the
pencil ; she picked it up, and Ivan continued :

As God hears me, my first thought was
for Sophie ! . . . I wanted to screen her ; if it
was known I had killed Larchoff, it would
have led to suspicion. . . . After I fired the
shot, Father Christopher passed ; he was
hurrying through the wood to get back to
the confessional ; I thought he might have
seen me, and if he had, I knew he would
suspect me. I went on to the sacristy, and
put back the gun where I had found it. And
then — oh, my God, how shall I tell it! — then
I went into the chapel, and knelt down in the
confessional and confessed the murder. After

that I was safe. I knew that this sealed his
lips : that he must let himself be put to death
rather than utter a word that might incriminate
me, and betray the secret of the confessional.

. . The next day I went into X , and

denounced him as the murderer.'

Marguerite could bear no more ; she
burst into tears, overcome with horror and
compassion.

'Ah! I have suffered for my crime!' Ivan
went on ; ' ay, the torments of the damned.
. . It so chanced — God in His judgment
so decreed — that I was passing when the
police were carrying him away. . I saw
him driven on between the two policemen.
Oh, my God ! my God I the look he gave me !
it has haunted me like the curse in a deadman's
eye. . I felt sure at first that the Prince
would have obtained his release ; when that
failed, I did what I could. . I spent my
whole fortune trying to purchase his escape,
bribing the gaolers, trying to get alleviations
for him. I have lived in poverty . . . my life
has been a hell of remorse. . And now I

am dying accursed and unforgiven, murdered
myself. . It is just ! it is just !'

Marguerite dropped on her knees, shaken
to her soul with pity for the miserable man
who had sinned and suffered so terribly.
But her strong sense and habit of self-restraint
quickly brought her back to the practical question
of how to make this confession available
for Father Christopher. She had presence
of mind enough to remember that either it
must be made verbally before another witness,
or Ivan must sign what she had written in
presence of a witness.

Is it any good my confessing now .^' said
Ivan, as if he guessed what was in her
mind. * Will it help to set Father Christopher
free, do you think 1 If it did, if I
knew that before I died, it would make hell
less horrible to me.'

I have not a doubt replied Marguerite,
but that as soon as your statement is known
to the authorities, they will liberate him at
once ; but you will have to repeat the confession,
or else sign it in the presence of

another person. May I send for the Commissary
?'

Yes, yes ; send for as many as will come.
I will swear before the whole world that I
committed the murder, and confessed it to
Father Christopher.'

Marguerite went out, intending to send
for the Commissary. She found him in the
entry, surrounded by the cure, the doctor,
several police-officers, and others who had
been attracted by the news of the murder.
She told rapidly what had happened, and
when the Commissary, accompanied by the
cure and the doctor, came in, she read aloud
what she had written, and then asked Ivan if
it was correct, and if he would swear to the
truth of the story.

Yes, I swear, as a dying man, that what
you have written is true. So help me God 1
Get me up that I may sign it.'

They lifted him, and put the pen in his
hand, and he wrote his name ; the others
then added their signatures. The Commissary
was putting away the pen, when

Ivan made a sign that he wanted it again.
They gave it to him, and he fingered it
fondly : it was Narva's pen. He remembered
seeing it on her Httle writing-table.


What have they done to her ?' he
asked — ' to Narva Larik ; what is the
sentence ?'

She is acquitted on all points,' replied
the Commissary, who had heard the news
from a police-officer just come from the
court.

Thank God !' muttered Ivan, and his face
brightened ; then, changing suddenly, a look
of hungry, wolfish hate came over it. ' Now
let them catch Schenk !' he said ; * it was
Schenk's doing ; it was Schenk that stabbed
me. I would die easy if I knew they would
hang him !'

He fell back exhausted on the pillow.

I HAVE NEVER LOVED ANY WOMAN AS I
LOVED YOU.'

HE verdict of acquittal was received
with loud and long
applause, the Villette element
making itself conspicuous in the chorus bells
of triumph, which might have easily-been
mistaken for howls of rage.

When M. de Beaucrillon and Sibyl led
Narva out of the court, half fainting, she
hardly knew where she was going, and
allowed herself to be assisted into the carriage
without asking where they were taking
her. It was only when she found herself
before the steps of Sibyl's house that she
realized where she was. It was then too

late to protest, even if she had had strength
to do it.

Sibyl led her upstairs, and put her to
bed ; she was kind and tender as a sister ;
and Narva, worn out in mind and body,
submitted unresisting to her soft ministrations.
She was thankful to be at rest.
She slept through the night from sheer
exhaustion. Sibyl would have her lie in
bed next morning; she forbade her to getup
till the afternoon, and gave orders that
Mademoiselle Narva was not to be disturbed,
even if Soeur Marguerite came.

Immediately after the second breakfast,
Sibyl went out with Gaston. They were
both anxious to see Marguerite, and learn
the cause of her mysterious summons from
court the day before.

The moment they were gone, Narva rose,
and dressed herself, and slipped down to the
boudoir. She could not lie quiet in bed,
when Basil might arrive at any moment and
call for her. She had not been long in the
boudoir when a carriage drove into the court.

It might be Basil! Narva started up and
went to the window. A coupe was drawn
up before the steps, and the hall-porter was
parleying with some one inside. Presently
he opened the carriage-door and assisted a
lady to alight. Narva recognised Marie
Krinsky. A meeting with this girl, who
loved Basil, who had been her rival, would
have been intolerable ; but it did not occur
to her that Marie was coming upstairs : she
was, no doubt, going to wait in the drawing-room,
or perhaps to write a note in the
library. It was only when the sound of
silk rustling on the landing became audible
that Narva knew the young Princess was
about to appear. She glanced round for a
way of escape. There was a panelled door
that opened into a tiny closet, a sort of
barras where the tea-table, etc., were kept.
There was just time to spring across the room
and open this door and draw it after her, without
daring to shut it, when Marie entered.

You will find everything here, Princess,'
said the servant, and soon the click of an

Opened inkstand, and then the noise of a pen
scratching the paper, announced that Marie
was writing.

The time seemed long to Narva, but in
reality ten minutes had not elapsed when
Marie started up, exclaiming:

Soeur Marguerite ! I am so glad ! I
was writing a line for Madame de Beaucrillon.
We only returned from Fontainebleau last
night. You were at the trial ; tell me about
it. Is Narva Larik guilty '^. Did she really
conspire against the life of the Emperor .'^'

Marguerite lifted her eyebrows.

Why, did you not read the trial ? It is
all in this morning's newspapers. She was
completely acquitted.'

Oh, I know that. M. de Beaucrillon is
rich enough to buy up the jury. And he
was quite right to do it ; but is she guilty .•*
Is she the dreadful woman they say ? I so
want to know the truth !'

She spoke earnestly, nervously.

Narva is no more guilty than I am,' said
Marguerite, with the warmth of conviction ;

she is a noble woman, and she has suffered
cruelly.'

Ah ! But now they say Is it true,

this story of Prince Basil's being in love with
her, and wanting to marry her ?'

Yes, it is quite true.'

Marie grew pale, and Marguerite saw
that the words had cut into her like a knife.
Poor child ! So she was to be a victim,
through no fault of her own. She looked
as if a touch would have overthrown her
courage ; but she struggled bravely, and
kept up.

I am glad she is good, since he is going
to marry her,' she said ; * it would have been
dreadful for Madame de Beaucrillon ; and I
should have been very sorry for her brother,
who '

Marie stopped short, blushed violently, and
then grew white, and an expression between
terror and defiance came into her eyes. Marguerite
turned to see what had wrought the
sudden change, and saw a gentleman advancing
quickly towards the open door of the

VOL. II. ^i^

boudoir ; he was unkempt and travel-stained,
like one come off a journey ; but Marguerite
recognised Basil at a glance. He went
straight up to her, and took her hand and
raised it to his lips ; he did not say a
word, but his face, his whole manner, were
eloquent with feeling. Suddenly, as if he
had not noticed the presence of the young
Princess, he made her a low bow.

Marie took up her parasol.

I am not sending you away, I hope,
Princess,' said Basil.

No ; I was going.'

She shook hands with Marguerite, and
then, looking Basil steadily in the face :

I am glad to be one of the first to congratulate
you on your approaching marriage,
Prince,' she said.

He read insolent contempt in her glance ;
but it was only the defiance of desperation.

Thank you, Princess,' he replied, and
held back the portiere with an ostentatious
pretence of making wider room for her
exit.

The girl's retreating footsteps made no
sound on the soft carpet, and Narva did
not know she had left the room when Basil
spoke :

Sibyl is out ?'

Yes ; I believe she is gone to La Villette,'
Marguerite replied, and she laid on the table
a parcel that she took out of a basket on her
arm.

There was nothing so far to inform Narva
that Marie was not still present.

Marguerite looked tired, and Basil thought
agitated ; she sat down, and, with a certain
hesitation in her manner :

A dreadful thing has happened,' she said ;
Ivan Gorff was stabbed yesterday during the
trial.'

Good God ! Ivan ! By whom T

By a man named Schenk.'

Schenk !* Basil repeated, aghast. ' My
God ! And is Ivan dead !'

He is dying. He sent for me to make
a confession — a terrible confession.' Narva
held her breath, while Marguerite paused,

38—2

as if the words were hard to speak. Then,
almost in a whisper : ' It was Ivan who murdered
Larchoffl^

Basil's vehement exclamation covered
another sound that came at the same moment
from the wall behind him. He dropped
into a chair, too stunned to utter a word.

Narva felt sure they were alone now ; but
she also was too stunned to speak or move ;
her heart gave a great leap, and then sank ;
she felt sick and faint, but she remained
motionless, rooted to the ground.

Marguerite,' Basil said, * if you knew what
this revelation is to me !'

I do know,' she answered, in a low voice,
and her lids fell.
Basil stood up.

You suspected me of the murder '^'

I thought you had done it accidentally.'

And you kept my secret ! Marguerite ! —
Marguerite !'

Before she could start up, or prevent him,
he had fallen down before her, and was
sobbing with his head upon her knees. marguerite

was too frightened by the suddenness
of the action and by the violence of his emotion
to know what to do ; Basil, however,
mastered the paroxysm quickly, and stood
up, and sat down beside her.

Narva had by this time regained her self-possession
; but she had no longer the courage
to come out of her hiding-place. She had
first listened involuntarily to the dialogue, and
now she could not show herself; it was too
late. She heard Basil sobbing, and she
guessed, more by instinct than by sound,
that he had fallen down at Marguerite's
feet ; if her life had depended on it, she
could not have pushed open the door and
looked at him there.

Yes,' he went on, after a moment's silence,
I thought I had shot him ; but I was not
certain. When Father Christopher was
arrested, I knew it was too late to accuse
myself ; the police had fastened the crime on
him. The only thing I could do was to go to
St. Petersburg and sue for his release. I came
away, believing he was to be set free the next

day. Did Ivan tell you why he murdered
Larchoff?'

'Yes; he confessed everything. It was a
terrible story.' And she repeated it as Ivan
had told it.

My God ! how horrible !'

Basil rose and walked the length of the
room ; then he sat down near Marguerite
again, and, speaking deliberately, like a man
who was constrained to give utterance to
something that would not be held back :

I, too, have a confession to make,' he said:
that murder changed my whole destiny —
perhaps. I had set my heart on making you
my wife. There was an end of that hope the
moment I felt there was blood upon my
hands ; but I loved you as I have never
loved any other woman.'

Both were too absorbed to notice the dull
sound of something falling heavily to the
ground close by.

*Oh, Basil! and Narka.'^' Marguerite said, ina
tone of pained reproach. ' You love Narva ?'

'Yes, I love Narva, and I will do my best

to make her happy. I will be a good husband
to her ; she shall miss nothing ; but
my love for you was a unique thing in
my life.'

The moment was too solemn, Basil himself
was too free from self-consciousness, for
the strange avowal to make Marguerite feel
shy, to cause her any embarrassment. It
was a startling confession for her to listen
to ; but it told her nothing she had not
known before. She knew perfectly well
that night at Yrakow that the course of her
destiny was suddenly changed. It was all
like a dream. She looked back to the dream
now, and saw spread out before her, like a
landscape seen in a looking-glass, the life
that might have been : a panorama of golden
days crowned with honours and delights ; but
the vision stirred no shadow of regret in her
heart, nor did it move her will to a momentary
recoil from the part that she had chosen. Far
from it : she rejoiced that her present lot
was beyond the reach of change. With an
almost involuntary movement she felt for

her crucifix, and closed her hand upon it,
silently renewing her self-consecration.

Basil, too, had been carried back to the
past, but not with the same glad assent in its
renunciations.

My God !' he cried, with a sudden burst
of passionate feeling, ' it is as if a reprieve
had suddenly come to me, after being under
sentence of condemnation all these years !'

Thank God !' Marguerite exclaimed fervently.
' And now you will give up once
and for ever these wild and wicked theories
that have led you and Narva into such
trouble ? God has been very good to you,
and you owe Him a return. You have now
an opportunity of redeeming the past ; you
must begin from this forth a noble and
useful life ; you must break off with conspiracy
and revolution, and work for your
country in wiser and better ways. Promise
me that you will.'

Basil fell back and thrust his hands into his
pockets.

If I had only myself to think of,' he said,

after a pause ; ' but I have contracted engagements
that it would not be honourable
to break ; it would be cowardly to abandon
those who are risking, and who will go on to
the bitter end risking, their lives for the sake
of overthrowing tyrants.'

That is just nonsense, rank nonsense !'
protested Marguerite, with her old impulsive
manner. ' They will never overthrow anybody
but themselves. I know them well : a
set of hot-headed fools and fanatics ! I see
them every day, and I hear the wild nonsense
they talk. But what is excusable as folly in
many of them, is downright criminal in you ;
and your example would give many of them
the courage and the excuse to give up the
whole thing — be sure of that. There are
very few in Russia, I dare say, as in France,
who after a while do not see the madness
of the work they have embarked in, and
who would not gladly get out of it if they
could. Besides, you are not worth much to
them ; you will never go far enough to do
the work they want ; you think that talking

and writing and stirring up passionate desires
for liberty is doing a grand thing ; but they
want it to lead to action — that is, to assassination,
to wholesale murder. You will never
lend your hand to that ; you will only go far
enough to ruin yourself, without satisfying
them. Give it up. Oh, Basil ! for Heaven's
sake give it up, and begin to lead an honourable,
useful life. Narva will make it a happy
life for you. She will be as noble and loyal
and loving a wife as any man was ever blest
with. Think, too, of all that she has suffered
for your sake ! All but death. Yes, that
time in the fortress was worse than death.
Make it up to her now, and guard her, at any
rate in the future, from those horrors that she
has gone through in the past. She was very
near falling into the hands of the torturers
again. It is almost a miracle that she has
escaped. A man whom we had helped in
trouble waylaid the policeman and rescued
this,' Marguerite continued, taking the casket
from the table.

Do you know what is in it .^' Basil asked,

as he took It in his hand, and tore off the
paper that covered it.

The papers you gave her to keep, and
those revolutionary articles of yours that
Ivan Gorff gave her to translate.'

Good heavens !' Basil exclaimed, greatly
excited. The sight of that ivory box brought
back his boyhood to him ; he remembered
the morning he gave it to Narva full of
sweetmeats for her birthday ; he kept turning
it round and examining it to conceal
his emotion. 'My poor Narva!' he murmured.


You will make it all up to her now ; promise
me you will .'^' Marguerite pleaded.
You will give up conspiracy '^'

Basil did not answer. He was moved to
his centre ; but his will was torn in opposite
directions : pity and tenderness for Narva
drew him one way ; what he called honour
drew him another.

Basil,' Marguerite said, and the blood
mounted to her cheek, and her voice
trembled, ' you say that you cared for me

once ; for the sake of that old affection, to
prove to me that it was something deeper
and better than a passing fancy, promise me
what I ask you. 1 ask it in the name of
God, of your mother, of all that you ever
held sacred !'

Her voice broke a little, and her eyes were
full of tears.

Still Basil hesitated ; but it was only because
he was struggling with the emotion that choked
him.

I promise you,' he answered.

There was a pause, and then Marguerite
said :

Now all our prayers must be that the
reprieve may reach Father Christopher intime.'


She stayed on a few minutes, asking questions
about the distance to Irkoutsk, calculating
the chances and perils that must be
reckoned with on the way homeward. Then
she rose to go.

You won't wait to see Narva ?' Basil
said.

No ; she Is perhaps asleep, or at any rate
she is resting. You will tell her about Ivan ;
his confession will be an immense relief to
her ; but the rest will be a great shock. She
will be horrified, too, to hear about Schenk.'

Basil accompanied Marguerite downstairs.
In the hall he said :

I wonder would they let me see Ivan ?
Could you get me into the prison ? I should
like to see him once.'

Oh ! yes, do go and see him ; I am sure
It will be a consolation to the poor fellow.
Go tomorrow morning at nine o'clock, and
ask for Soeur Jeanne ; or, stay, If you go there
now, you wmII find her. Say that you have a
message to her from Soeur Marguerite, and
the porter will let you In.'

I will go at once,' said Basil ; ' and by the
time I get back, Narva will probably be up,
and able to see me.'

He stood and watched Marguerite till she
crossed the court and disappeared. Then he
went out and called a cab, and drove to the
prison.

As Marguerite walked rapidly homeward,
she felt nearer to perfect happiness than she
had ever done before in her innocent, happy
life. The windows of the world seemed to
have been suddenly thrown wide open, and
fresh air from heaven let in to blow about her
face. Her heart was so merry that she could
have sung for gladness. All the wrong things
were coming right. If only La Villette would
cast out its heart of rage ! Marguerite kept
her hand upon that angry heart as a sick-nurse
feels the pulse of a patient ; le pauvre
peuple was her sick child ; she kept feeling its
pulse, and the quick, irregular beats made her
anxious.

If only I might die for them,' she murmured
in her heart, with a sinking of despair.
But then she thought of Father Christopher,
and of Basil and Narva, and how all the
wrong things were coming right at last, and
she trusted and rejoiced.

RENUNCIATION.

Area lay motionless, crouching ina
heap on the ground, for some
minutes after Basil and Marguerite
had left the room. At last the silence assured
her that they had gone. She rose to her
knees, and dragged herself up, and opened the
door cautiously ; there were the two chairs
that Marguerite and Basil had been sitting
on ; they seemed to hold them still. The
atmosphere of the place was suffocating ;
Narkafelt she must get out of it to breathe;
she made her way up to her own room, and
sat down and tried to think what had happened
since she had left it, only an hour ago.

The whole world was changed to her, and
yet in reality those words of Basil's which
had flung her down as if stricken with
paralysis had told her nothing new ; she was
conscious of having known all along that
in those early days at Yrakow he had loved
Marguerite, and on the night of the murder
Marguerite had betrayed the secret of her
love for him. But then had come the
warrant and the ransom, and his declaration
to herself ; and what waves of passionate
love and trust had swept over their lives since
then, obliterating the very trace of those
early jealousies and uncertainties !

Narva was not so simple as to suppose
that a man's love was not to be trusted,
because the virgin vintage of his heart had
been thrown into the wine-press for another
woman's feet to tread. She would not have
felt a pang of jealousy or resentment if Basil
had himself confessed to her that he had
loved Marguerite first ; but that he should
never have said a word to her, and should
now confess it to Marguerite — this stung her

to the quick, and struck at the root of all
belief in his love.

If he loved me,' she repeated to herself,
he would have been compelled by the very
force of his love to tell me ; he could not have
kept it from me.'

And she was right. For though we may
sometimes wholly trust where we do not
love, we can never wholly love where we do
not trust. Basil, then, did not love her ; not
as she understood love ; not as a man should
love the woman he is going to marry. And
if he did not love her, should she keep him to
his engagement ? Could she let him sacrifice
himself to her from a sense of honour, of pity,
of gratitude ^.

Schenk was right ; Basil had never loved
her.

Narva interlaced her fingers, and straightened
up her arms above her head in a gesture
of intolerable anguish.

I will give him up ! — I will give him up !'
she cried aloud, almost in a shout, and then
she flung herself upon the sofa, and sobbed
VOL. II. 39

till it shook under her. When the paroxysm
had subsided, she stood up, and began to
walk up and down the room. ' If he were to
confess the truth to me even now, I would
believe him,' she said, again speaking aloud
to herself, and like a drowning man catching
at a straw in her despair ; ' if he were to
come to me now and say : " I loved Marguerite
in the old days before I learned to

love you," I could believe '

But she suddenly checked herself. Had

he not told Marguerite that his love for

her was a unique thing in his life ? And

then he had said that Narva should miss

nothing, that he would be a loyal and

loving husband to her, that he would pay

back his debt as a man of honour. O God !

was this the return she was to get for

her passionate love ! Could she take such

pitiful payment of cold gratitude and duty in

exchange for the love that had been burning

like a fire in her heart all these years ? No ;

it was intolerable. * I will give him up !' she

repeated, already with a stern quietness that

bespoke a firmer will than her first violent
outburst.

She sat down and tried to face the reality.
She would give him up ; this much was certain
; she was resolved to give him up. And
having made this tremendous decision, it
seemed as if the necessity for it grew suddenly
clearer. She saw distinctly, like something
new that she had never even glanced at
before, what the consequences would be to
Basil and to herself if he married her : he was
going to make as complete a sacrifice as a
man could make for a woman ; he was going
to quarrel with his father; to give him up ;
to give up his whole fortune and position ; to
give up Sibyl too, for though she might feign
to forgive the marriage, in her heart she
would never really forgive it, and she would
hate the woman who had come between her
and the brother of whom she was so proud.
And what had Narva to offer him in return
for all this ? If he had loved her! . ah, if
he had loved her ! Narva knew with what
supreme abundance love can satisfy the lover,

39—2

and make all sacrifices as nothing compared
to the plenary bliss it can bestow. But he
did not love her.

I will not marry him ; I will not see him
again,' she said ; and as her will took firmer
hold of this determination, it seemed to harden
her heart and brace it for the sacrifice. Then,
instinctively, her thoughts flew to Marguerite.
There would be sympathy there and understanding.
' I will tell her the truth ; I will
tell her everything,' was Narva's reflection.
But when she had told Marguerite, what
was she to do ? Where was she to go ? She
must take up life again with its difficulties
and its inexorable necessities ; she must go
back to loneliness, without any sustaining
hope to make it endurable. Suddenly she
remembered Zampa, and the thought was
like a fish of lightning showing her a way
out of the darkness. She would go to Zampa;
she would throw herself into the art she
loved, and enter at once on her career asa
singer, and study with all her might, and
become a great artist. A thrill of relief,

almost of exultation, came with this resolution,
and with the consciousness that she
had within her the power to fashion her own
destiny, and conquer independence. She
need not be an object of pity to anyone ;
there was something in this. Narva stood
up again. There was a knock at the door.
One of the maids, of course. She said,
Come in.'

The door opened, and Basil entered.

He went quickly up to her, and took her
in his arms.

Narva !' he cried, straining her to him.

She suffered his embrace without responding
to it ; Basil was too excited to
notice this, but he felt that she was
trembling.

I was here before,' he said, ' but you
were resting. How are you, dearest ? Let
me look at you ? You are tired and pale.
No wonder.* He kissed her forehead. 'Sit
down beside me ;' and he would have
drawn her to the couch, but Narva did not
move.

Tell me about Ivan she said. ' Have
you seen him ? Is he dead ?'

No ; he is still alive ; but they don't think
he will pass the day.'

Basil now became conscious of something
strange about her. It was natural that the
horror of this tragedy should have solemnized
all things to them both, that it should be
uppermost in her thoughts, and have checked
the overflow of her joy a little ; but there was
something beyond this in her manner. He
tried again to draw her to the couch, but her
figure stiffened against his arm and she laid
her hand upon his shoulder, as if gently putting
him from her.

What is the matter, Narva } Are you
not glad to see me ?' he asked.

I have something to say to you,' she said,
and her great eyes looked steadily into his,
and her voice did not falter : * There is an end
of our engagement. You must leave me, and
forget that you ever thought of marrying me.'

Basil drew away his arm, and looked at her
in amaze.

You are mad he said. Then in a softer
tone : 'No wonder if you were, after all you
have been going through, my poor Narva !
But what has put this folly into your
head ?'

'It is no folly. The folly was when we
thought that our marriage could bring either
of us anything but suffering and regret. Yes
Let me speak out, Basil. Listen to me. It
you married me, you would lose everything ;
you would be an exile all your life ; your
father would never forgive you, nor Sibyl ;
and Sibyl would hate me ; and I could not
live under that — it would kill me. I see it
all now. We must part. You will marry
some one who will suit you and make you
happy ; some one in your own rank. Marie
Krinsky loves you ; marry her, and give up
playing at patriotism ; you are not made for
it. No, dear Basil, you are made to be what
you are, and nothing else. If you broke
with your kindred and your caste, and married
me, we should both regret it. You
would try to hide it from me, but I should

see it, and It would make me a miserable
woman.'

She said all this rapidly, as if she were ina
hurry to get it all out before breaking
down ; but her voice did not break, although
it was nervous and vibrating, and she was
so white that Basil feared she was going
to faint ; but her eyes still met his without
quailing. What did it all mean ? What
had she heard to drive her to this extraordinary
resolution ? His conscience smote
him ; he remembered his words to Marguerite
in the boudoir ; but they could not have come
back to Narva.

Sibyl has been talking to you he said ;
she has persuaded you to this.'

No, she has not ; I have not had a
moment's conversation with Sibyl since I
have been in the house. She has had
nothing whatever to do with my determination.'


'Then what in Heaven's name has come
to you, Narva ? Have you ceased to care
for me ? It was only yesterday you swore

to me you loved me as your life, and now
you coolly turn me away, and throw me off
without a word of explanation. I insist upon
knowing what it means.'

1 have told you,' she replied. ' We have
been living in a fool's paradise. I was blind,
and you were mad. But there is an end of
it. We must separate. Don't be sorry forme,
or afraid. I have courage ; I will go on
my way safely.'

Good God ! what are you talking about 't
What way will you go, if you do not come
with me ?'

I will go to Florence, and become a
singer. My voice is better than ever it
was. I am able to face the future without
any fear.'

She was still as white as marble. There
was something marble-like about her altogether,
in the calm stony coldness of her
manner to him. It was unnatural in so
passionate a creature as Narva.

You are talking mere nonsense, child,'
said Basil ; ' and besides, you forget that 1

have a claim on you that is not to be set
aside by any fanciful arguments, or caprice
of feeling : 1 am your debtor for fifty thousand
roubles.'

Not quite. You sent me some of it by
poor Ivan ; and Sibyl has paid me the whole
amount. It is there,' said Narva, pointing
to the drawer of the writing-table ; * I found
it when I came here from the court yesterday.'


Sibyl had no right to meddle in it,' he
said, reddening with anger.

He would rather have remained Narva's
debtor than become Sibyl's, and it seemed
to weaken his hold on Narva that the debt
should have been paid ; though, if she persisted
in breaking their engagement, it was
better he should be free. Would she persist '^,
Basil assured himself that she would not ; but
there was something about Narva that said
to him, ' She will.'

If anything had happened a month ago
to break off his engagement honourably to
himself, it is doubtful whether he would

have felt the blow a very severe one ; but
coming from Narva's hand, and dealt at
him in this cool, sudden way, it wounded
him to the quick, and fired his feeling towards
her to a flame of passion. He would not
give her up ! He knew how she loved him,
and how she had suffered for him. This act
of hers was the result of some heroic fancy,
or else she had been stung to it by wounded
pride. In spite of her denial, he suspected
Sibyl was at the bottom of it ; but he would
conquer her in spite of her own stubborn
pride, in spite of Sibyl, and the whole world.
There was no use, however, in arguing with
Narva now : opposition would only nerve her
to more determined resistance.

Narva, you are very cruel to play with
me in this way,' he said, ' and I shall punish
you for it some day. But you are tired and
nervous, and you want rest after all you have
gone through. I wish you could go to the
country for a week. Perhaps if you went
down to Beaucrillon for a few days, it would do
you good and bring you to your right mind.'

Perhaps,' she said, looking at him with
a smile that went to his heart's core : there
was an expression in her eyes that was
indefinable.

Basil drew her to him, and held her
to his breast; kissing her with passionate
tenderness.

You shan't fly from me,' he murmured
between the kisses ; * I would follow you to
the end of the world if you did. My love !
my wife ! my beautiful one !'

Narva let herself sink into his embrace.
Now, for the first time, she was tasting the
caresses of a lover. Basil felt her trembling,
and triumphed in his power over her, and
silently rejoiced.

A knock at the door made him start, and
release her.

• Monsieur de Beaucrillon desires to know if
mademoiselle will come downstairs, or receive
him here ?' said the servant.

I will come down presently Narva replied.
But when the man was gone, she
said to Basil : ' I must be alone for a while.

I cannot see anyone. Don't let him come
up.'

I will protect you,' Basil said ; and he
kissed her again, and turned away.

As he was in the act of opening the door,
a sound like a strangled cry made him look
back. An extraordinary change had come
over Narva : her face, a moment ago white
and cold, was flushed and quivering ; her
lips were parted, her eyes, liquid with
yearning love, looked straight into his ; ashe
moved towards her, she held out her
arms, and, with a sudden spring, fell upon his
breast:, and clung to him with an embrace that
was almost fierce in its passionate transport.

Basil murmured words of endearment ashe
pressed her to him ; he kissed her again
and again, and when she disengaged herself,
and gently pushed him from her, he was
satisfied to release her, and went away conscious
that his power over her was greater
than ever, that she loved him too well, for
Sibyl, or pride, or anything on earth to induce
her to give him up.

Narva waited till the sound of his footfalls
on the stairs had quite ceased, and then she
flung herself on her knees, and her tortured
heart found relief in a flood of tears, while
her soul went up in a prayer for pity and
help. But it was not in her nature to indulge
long in the luxury of grief, to keep action
waiting on emotion. She rose and dried her
eyes, and considered what she had to do.
The vital crisis had come and gone. She
was glad to have seen Basil. That last
caress had satisfied an intolerable craving of
her heart, and given her courage for what
remained to be done. Her remaining fears
were now cast out ; she felt armed against
every attack from within and from without.
She would have risen and gone away that
moment, but for the fear of meeting Basil, or
M. de Beaucrillon. Besides, she must write
a farewell note to Sibyl, explaining her flight.
This done, she put on her cloak and bonnet,
and waited. After a while, the bell clanged,
the gates were opened, and Sibyl's open
carriage came wheeling into the court. Soon

Narva heard a light step on the stairs ; there
was a knock at the door, then a pause, and
she heard the step descending.

At the end of about half an hour there was
a sound of wheels moving away. Narva
looked through the lace curtains, and saw
Sibyl and M. de Beaucrlllon and Basil all
driving off together. Basil had kept his promise
of protecting her.

She was free now to go. But instead of
hurrying away, she sat down. It was not
that her purpose faltered ; on the contrary,
she felt stronger, more resolute than ever: but
suddenly a strange sensation had come over
her, something like what she had experienced
in the prison. It was as If she had been lifted
out of the world, beyond time, and was looking
back on all she had left behind, on the
broken destiny she was running away from,
as one looks back from a turn in the road at
the house one has just left. But the mystery
of life seemed suddenly illuminated with an
altogether different meaning and purpose
from what she had seen, or fancied, In that

Other vision ; the dark and cruel things were
now bright with hidden possibilities of blessing
and redemption. She saw Marguerite's
ideal emerge in all its beauty amidst the
storm and confusion of the world around it ;
and side by side with this she saw her own
ideal overturned and dishonoured. The things
that she had worshipped had betrayed her ;
the love whose Incantation had transfigured
her whole life had melted away like a
shadow, and with It all her Illusions had
vanished ; the Insane theories, the wild enthusiasms,
which had inspired and misled her,
had simultaneously evaporated with the great
passion that had fed her belief In them.
Only a little while ago, the defeat of those
hopes and dreams would have reckoned
amongst the bitterest of life's revenges ; but
now she was content to let them go. And
was everything gone .^ Was there nothing
saved from the wreck ? Yes : there remained
God and her fellow-creatures ; there was still
all humanity to care for. She would open
her heart to this larger love, and put her

hand to whatsoever service of help came toit.
In this supreme moment of her sacrifice
Narva was beginning to taste something of
the inebriation that comes to those who drink
with courage of the cup of pain.

But it was time to be going. She rose
quickly, and went downstairs. It seemed
only yesterday that she had walked up those
crimson steps to be greeted by Sibyl in that
boudoir where a few hours ago she had heard
the sentence that banished her. There was
a servant in the hall ; Narva passed him by,
and went out into the garden to a gate that
opened into the street ; she knew the trick of
the latch, lifted it, let herself out, and then
drew the gate behind her.

VOL. II. 40

LA SCALA.

T is winter again at Yrakow.
Sibyl and her husband and Basil
are once more assembled in that
tapestried room where we first saw them.
Father Christopher is there too, aged and
broken ; his figure, formerly so erect, is
bent, and he walks like a man who is still
carrying a load and dragging a chain ; but
this, he explains, is only a bad habit that his
old limbs cannot get rid of; he declares he
is the happiest of men ; and, indeed, the
serenity of his countenance and his cheerful
flow of spirits confirm the assertion.

Basil is engaged to Marie Krinsky, and

the marriage is soon to be celebrated at
the Winter Palace with all the pomp becoming
the presence of royalty and the rank
of the bride and bridegroom.

Sibyl ought to have been satisfied. And
yet the old castle was empty of something
that she missed at every turn. She was
grateful to Narva for having gone of her own
free will, and set Basil free ; but her absence
made a void that nothing could fill. By
tacit consent, the brother and sister never
spoke of her ; but each knew that she was
dearer than ever to the other since they had
lost her.

This evening M. de Beaucrillon was reading
aloud the newspaper, when he came to a
paragraph headed, ' Milan. — Extraordinary
Scene at La Scala and having read so far,
stopped suddenly.

Sibyl looked up from her embroidery-frame.

What is it ?' she said.

He hesitated a moment and then, with a
movement that seemed to say, ' Why not ?*
read on :

40 — 2

" Last night Mademoiselle Narva Larik
made her dehtt in Norma, and no one who
witnessed the performance will ever forget the
scene. Her extraordinary beauty would alone
have insured her a success, but this, joined to
her incomparable voice and transcendent
talent, won for her such a triumph as was,
perhaps, never seen on any stage. The
audience were simply mad with enthusiasm.

The King of X went himself behind the

scenes, and conducted the beautiful artist,
who was almost overcome with emotion, to
the royal box, where the Queen embraced
her, and drawing a costly diamond ring from
her own finger, placed it on Mademoiselle
Narva's. Cries of ^ Evviva la Regina P
Evviva la Narva P showed how the spectators
rejoiced in this meeting of the two
royalties of genius and rank. The prima
donna is invited to a dinner given in her
honour by their Majesties on the twentieth
instant." '

A moment of intense silence followed the
reading of this passage. Then M. de

Beaucrillon laid down the newspaper, and
said :

She is a noble woman. I hope some
Crown Prince will fall in love with her, and
marry her !'

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD

C, C. &' Co

A New Serial Story

by Jessie Fothergill
commenced in the
January Number

\Overkaf) 0'

THE TEMPLE BAR iGAZINE.

'"»!*1^^5®'?'>J* ■** ■ —

To be obtained at all Booksellers'.

A New Serial Story

by W. E. Norris

commenced in the
January Number

/ See \ C

overleap.) ^^

THE Tile BAR Magazine.

3>KC

To be obtained at all Booksellers*.
