OF THE

U N IVLR5 City

or ILLINOIS

P883a

V.I

Viz?.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

M ^^'*

L161— O-1096

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/australianheroin01prae

Australian Heroine

BY

R. MURRAY PRIOR.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

bonbon :

CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited, 193, Piccadilly.

1880.

[All rights reserved.]

8-5,3

V,

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER V.

PAGE
A RiDE THROUGH THE BUSH 78

CHAPTER VI.

'soul cannot march to THE BLEATING OF SHEEP OR

LOWING OF cattle" 98

CHAPTER VII.

A STORM AND ITS CONSEQUENCES 119

CHAPTER Visit.

IN THE GARDEN AT BULLY WALLAH 147

CHAPTER IX.

THE RETURN TO THE PILOT STATION 163

CHAPTER X.

THE RECALL OF GEORGE BRAND 184

vu

CHAPTER XT.

PAGE
GHOSTS OF THE PAST 204

CHAPTER XII.

ESTHER ARRIVES IN LONDON 218

CHAPTER XIII.

A PLUNGE INTO CIVILISATION 236

CHAPTER I.

ESTHER.

Esther was perched upon a bare black rock,
which bristled out from the side of a cliff, T\'oru
into crannies and furrows by the incessant dash
of the ocean. A tangle of seaweed lay all round
her, and her feet dangled over a still pool, left
by the retreating waves as they swashed over
a sunken reef, a few paces off. The sea gurgled
backwards and forwards with a cradle-like motion,
and played upon the shingle, casting up shreds
of sponge and coarse marine plants, sometimes
stranding them high and dry among the decaying
jellyfish and dead cuttle-shells, and sometimes
carrying them back again, as if in sport.

Esther was a slip of a girl, slender as a tropical
reed, badly dressed in an ill-fitting cotton gown,

VOL. I. B

with a coarse straw hat in her hand, and rough
leather shoes upon her well-formed feet. Her
clothing was that of an ill-cared-for child of the
people : her hands, though small, were tanned
by exposure and hardened by labour, but her
face, high-bred in every line, suggested pleasing
possibilities of future beauty. It was pale and
oval, with a tremulous, sensitive mouth and
deep, dreamy eyes — in colour a combination of
violet and grey, and with that wistful, half-conscious
look which is rarely seen except in the
eyes of a precocious child who the gossips say
'* is not long for this world. '^ Her features were
small and regular, her neck slender, and her hair
dark, with a natural tendency to crisp waves upon
the brow and the nape of the neck.

The black, forbidding cliff formed a sombre
background to the girl's figure. It was a bleak
rock, which bound the extremity of a narrow
cape, and upon its summit was a red lighthouse,
visible at sea for miles off. A narrow strip of
sand and shingle curved round the base of the
cliff, but from where Esther sat there was nothing
to be seen but the wild, restless Pacific, stretching
out towards the horizon.

Esther loved the sea, for it was almost the
only companion she had. A nearly uninhabited
island, swept by southern hurricanes and

unreclaimed by civilisation, was all the world
she knew ; but beyond — to the east — where the
horizon-line melted into that of ocean, there was
another, a misty, mythic region, peopled by the
wandering fancies that had assumed shape in her
imagination, and dwelt out there in a charmed
life, to which she could at will transport herself.
Her eyes were fixed seaward now, and her lips
were moving silently. In her lap lay a tattered
book, only a few pages of printed matter ; but
they contained the story of Hans Andersen's
Sea-maid, and Esther had read and re-read them
till she knew them almost by heart. Surely upon
such a summer's morning as this the little mermaid
might have swum to the shore and gazed
wistfully at the palace of the beautiful prince ;
but there was no palace on the island, or prince
either for that matter, and Esther was to the
full as ignorant and as yearning as the poor
pathetic sea-maid. All the creatures of Esther's
imagination were wistful and longing-eyed, regarding
from afar a paradise of action and
romance, from moving in which the very
conditions of their being withheld them.

It was very dull sitting there, and she was
only a child who wanted amusement like all
other children, even when they have attained the
advanced age of sixteen. A thought suddenly

B 2

struck Esther ; she stooped and unlaced her leather
shoes and let her brown, naked feet slip into the
shallow basin left by the sea below them. Beside
the pool there was a tiny plateau of silvery sand,
walled in by miniature rocks, and at one end
a shelving dais, which fancy could readily
canopy with seaweed and mother-of-pearl, and
transform into a throne for marine monarchy.
This fairy salon might be the dancing-hall of the
sea-princesses. From his raised seat the old king
might look down upon their revels and applaud
when he was pleased, and yonder was the
window whence the seven mermaids were
wont to glance longingly up through the blue
sea to the world of ships and of men which
was so tantalisingly near, and yet so difficult of
attainment.

Esther collected the tiny shimmering shells
that strewed the beach, and adorned with them
the floor of the Princesses' hall, tapestries the
walls with green and crimson seaweed and
arranging couches of inverted periwinkle and
mussel-shells. It may seem a babyish employment
for a girl of sixteen, but Esther was a
solitary, uneducated creature, and had no mental
resources for the employment of her time.

The sun, for it was early morning, rose higher
and higher into the cloudless sky, and cast down

myriads of twinkling diamonds into the sea.
Esther began to feel hungry. Taking from
her pocket a lump of coarse home-made
bread, she munched it abstractedly as she
proceeded with her fascinating child's play ; so
absorbed was she that she did not hear a step
that crunched upon the shingle behind her.

Hey, Esther ! " cried a man's rough voice,
*' what are you after now ? "

The girl started and turned. A short, weatherbeaten
sailor, in a loose dark blue jersey and
baggy trousers, with a square brown face and
shaggily fringed deep-set eyes, looked at her ina
kind of wondering disapproval.

Nothing, Joe," replied Esther ; " I'm only
playing."

Well, I'm darned ! What has a great gell
like you to do with such playing nonsense and
mooning ways ? What are you building there ?
A doll's house belike, which the sewell sweep
away next tide. You should be above such
goings on : a young woman as 'full be seventeen
year old her next birthday ! For shame. Miss
Esther ! Now if you were to set yourself to your
sewing, or to redd up the house a bit, it \id bea
deal better for you."

I have redd up the house, Joe," said Esther,
her silvery tones contrasting with the sailor's

coarse intonation ; " and this does no harm, you
know. IVe got no books that I care about, and
playing stories is next best to reading them. I
got up early this morning and did everything
before I left the hut, and I was going back
presently to see if father had come in, and if he
wanted any breakfast'

'• Hobart has been drinking hard a o-ain," said Joe.
I heard him ranting about the beach last nio-ht."

Esther nodded mournfully. "The grog is
almost out, Joe."

The shakes 'full be on him a gen afore long,"
remarked Joe, with the air of one familiarised
to the various stages of drunkenness. *' He were
sinmno; out to his dead missus last nio-ht, and
when I hears that, I says to Nancy, ' It's time
to look after Miss Esther ! ' "

You have been a good friend to me, Joe. I
don't know how I should get on if it were not
for you."

I promised your mother afore she died that
I'd see as Hagartt did not harm you," said Joe,
and I'm not one as makes a promise and forgets
to keep it."

My poor mother," murmured Esther, her
sensitive lip quivering.

** Don't take on," said Joe; "it's a mercy
that she is dead. A drunken master is worse for

the wife than for the children — leastways, there's
a chance for the one of getting rid of him, and
there ain't none for the other. A wife is bound
by the Bible to cleave to her husband as long
as they both shall live. It has always puzzled
me," added Joe reflectively, " whether the
Almighty took drink into consideration when
He laid them orders upon His servants." This
was a moral problem beyond Esther's powers
of solution. '•' I've noticed," continued Joe —
and Ive seen a many of them in Australia —
that it's always them as have been gentlefolks
that knock under to drink the worst. I'm not
holding out, Esther, that I hasn't gone on a spree
myself, and come home a darned sight heavier
in the head and lighter in the breeches pockets
than when I set out; but there was an end toit
for that time, at any rate. But with Hagartt
it's a being dry for ever — a selling of one's
stomach entire to the devil. There ain't no
wild beasts in Australia, as there are in Indy
or America ; but to be always dry inside, and
craving a drop, is worse to my mind than being
eaten outright by a rampaging beast or a
venomous reptile. It's since he has been on the
island, Esther, that your father has took to
drink. I'd give a sight to know what brought
him here."

Esther shook her head. " I can't remember,
Joe, where we lived before we came here."

Labored, may be," said Joe thoughtfully.
No, you wouldn't recollect. You were a little
toddlekius of six when your father came to the
island. I remember your mother carrying you
in her arms and crying because there was no
milk for you. We bought the goats soon after
that, and I fetched 'em all the way from Frazer-ville
in the long boat. Your mother took kindly
to me after that job. She was a beautiful
creature. Miss Esther, — a lady to the sole of her
foot. I've seen such in the old country. They
mostly drove in carriages and lived in grand
houses, and wore silks and velvets. Your
mother was of that sort, but proud — Lord, she
was proud ! and melancholy — there was scarcely
ever a smile upon her face. But I kep my distance
from her. I was always oue to know a
lady when I seed her, and I told Nancy she
wasn't to be too familiar, and by and by we
got to be friends after a fashion. If she wanted
a bit of wood cut she'd come to me, or a shelf
put up. ' Joe,' she'd say, ' I know you're a
good carpenter.' It was I made the frames
for them pictures in the hut — queer drawn's, I
thought them, — and the squatters' chairs in the
verandah."

Joe paused in his reminiscences. " Oh, goon,"
cried Esther ; " you don't know how I love
to hear of my mother. Tell me more, Joe ; for
sometimes," she added, her voice lowering to a
whisper, " I feel that she is near me. It's at
night sometimes, in the dark, when father has
got his fits on, or when I'm walking alone by
the sea, or sittings beside her o-rave."

That's an uncanny notion, ]bliss Esther," said
Joe ; " it's of a piece with your mooning ways,
and it ain't healthy for a gell like you to bethinking
of such things. You should be working
at your sampler or redding up the house, as
I said afore, instead of wandering about and
making play ^vith your bits of seaweed and
shells like any daft creature. I'm not for saying,"
added Joe with an air of deep wisdom, *' that
there ain't no truth in spirits. There's many
things I've seen in my life as 'ud make me unwilling
to deny them ; but there's no good in
over-much dwelling upon the thought of them
that's dead. Sometimes, may be, as is but nat'ral,
they like to have a look at the old places ; and
who's to say them nay ? — for spirits is not bound
by ordinary rules of coming and going. There
was the admiral, my old master — you've heard
me talk of him, perhaps ? "

Yes," said Esther, deeply interested ; " but

go on, Joe ; if it's about his coining back, tell me
again."

"I served him, Miss Esther, afore I ever
thought of comines out to Australia. I was a
lad then, but he was mortal fond of me, and
took me into his domestic service. I was odd-job
man about the place, and used to sleep in
his room, when he got that infirm that he could
not wait upon himself. I was beside him when
he died, going off in his sleep as quiet as a child.
Often I've thought that he wanted perhaps to
say good-bye to me ; for oftentimes after he was
dead and I was working in the garden, or doing
a bit of carpentering in the shed, Td hear his
step behind me, shilling his feet just as he used.
Joe,' says he, ' we'll take a little turn.' * All right,
Admiral,' I answers, not a bit sheered, and he
leans upon my arm ; but I sees nothing, and we
walks round by the vegetable garden. * Joe,' says
he, ' them seeds won't come up,' and sure enough
they never do ; or ' Joe,' he says, ' them roses
won't blow,' and as certain as I stand here there
wouldn't be a bloom upon the bushes. That was
how it was. Miss Esther, and if I put out my
hand to touch him, he was gone. Who's to say
after that as there ain't no spirits 1 "

Joe had been talking on abstractedly with his
eyes fixed upon the sea-line, and Esther was

listening, lier breath coming and going in deep
inspirations, and a rapt, dreamy expression upon
her face which imparted to it a spiritualised
beauty. Joe paused. He suddenly wrinkled up
his brows and drew his hand to his forehead,
peering eagerly out from beneath it. '^ I see
some smoke upon the horizon," he said ; " maybe
it's a steamer that'll need to be signalled. You
had better go back to the hut, Esther, and be in
hearing to work the telegraph wires, for I'm
thinking the pilot won t be up to much to-day.
I must go and see about the old boat that's had
her side stove in."

Esther cast a regretful look at the fairy house
she had been building, and then, after putting on
her stockings and shoes, turned round the cliff
and ascended it by a steep path which led, zigzag-fashion,
up to its summit.

THE PILOT STATION.

MuNDOOLAN Island is a long strip of land some
forty miles in length, and varying from seven to
fourteen in breadth, lying parallel with the northeastern
coast of Australia. Its northern extremity
forms a bluff narrow cape upon which stands a
lighthouse and a pilot and telegraph-station ; the
business of the officials being to guide ships past
the great barrier reef and to signal and report
vessels bound northward, and such small coasting
steamers as find their way up the Frazer river
to the town of Frazerville.

The Frazer river discharges itself into the bay
which is commanded by the Mundoolan Island
lighthouse. Frazerville was intended by its projectors
to be the capital of Northern Australia,
but from various causes has disappointed the
expectations of its well-wishers, and is rather ina
state of decadence than of development.

Muncloolan Island is divided from the mainland
by a strait called the Narrows, four miles wide or
thereabouts at its northern and southern ends,
and differing at the middle, according to tidal
changes, from two miles to less than a mile.
At this narrowest portion the o^vTiers of Bully
Wallah are able twice in the month, at full and
new moon, to swim their cattle across to the
mainland.

At the opening of this story the greatest part
of the island was merged in a large cattle station
called Bully Wallah, upon which grazed the herds
of Andrew Overstone, Esq., and the remainder,
to be topographically exact, about six thousand
acres, comprised the pilot station above mentioned,
and an extensive tract of land formerly
appropriated by the government for a mission-station
for the conversion of aboriginal, but
never used for that purpose.

The country, except where it fringes upon the
sea, is extremely fertile and well wooded and
watered, undulating in sloping hills and grassy
plains, while, like the Isle of Calypso, perpetual
spring seems to reign in its borders, and sea-breezes
temper the otherwise tropical heat ; yet
at that time, except the huts at the pilot station
and the owner's residence at Bully Wallah, there
was not a habitation upon it.

It may appear strange that so inviting a
territory should be so thinly populated; but
land is illimitable in Australia, and the island
did not afford those facilities for transit and
transport that are desirable for the settler.

Mr. Overstone's predecessor at Bully Wallah
had been, fourteen years previously, the first
pioneer of civilisation upon this northern shore.
He had (by the terror of his firearms) driven
the aborigines on to the mainland, had built
the head station, and had been an enthusiastic
assistant in the formation of Frazerville. But
both the island and the town had disappointed
his hopes. Plagues of pleura-pneumonia had
decimated his herds. Frazerville had sunk by
the discovery of gold-fields a little higher north,
and the enterprising explorer had been glad to
sell his station at a low price to Mr. Overstone.
In his time it had been thought advisable to
build a lighthouse and to establish a signal
station at the cape, and upon its completion
the pilot Hagartt, his wife and daughter, a child
of six, and four sailors, had first taken up their
abode upon Mundoolan Island.

Though many ships and steamers passed the
pilot station, it was rare indeed for one to put
in there, and the cape was almost as lonely asa
reef in the midst of the Pacific.

The headland stretched out in a narrow tongue
into the sea, and before the erection of the lighthouse
had evidently been a point of danger ; for
the ribs of wrecked vessels lay embedded in the
sand and wedged in between the rocks, and it
could be plainly seen that the earliest and rudest
of the huts, built by a missionary who had lost
his life in trying to convert the blacks, had been
constructed of the planks that had formerly
clothed these skeletons.

A flock of goats browsed upon the cliff. Intimes
of extremity, when meat was scarce, the
kids' flesh furnished food for the pilots and the
dams provided milk for their slender households.
The herd found but scant subsistence, for herbage
was not plentiful upon the cape. Stunted grass,
creeping marine plants and rock lichen, and round
the well-manured goat yard a miniature forest
of fat-hen, as it is vulgarly termed — that was all.
A few gaunt cocoa-palms, the offspring of nuts
washed ashore by the gales, grew low down upon
the beach, and here and there a clump of breadfruit
trees, whose roots, stretching out like the
spikes of an inverted umbrella, caught hold of
the slender stratum of soil and resisted the keen
winds from the south-east. Neither flowers nor
vegetables would grow in that barren spot, and the
hardy creeper which with infinite care Esther had

succeeded in training over the verandah of the
pilot's cottage, was often torn down by the
violence of the tempests.

Anything more desolate can scarcely be
imagined, and yet it was a picturesque desolation,
to which the eye never grew accustomed,
and compared with which, the grassy slopes and
spreading foliage of the country behind seemed
tame and monotonous. Sometimes the lighthouse
stood out against a background of stone
grey fluctuating with emerald green, while
through little rifts overhead the sun seemed
to mock at an angry sea. Sometimes the wind
struggled, as it were, to tear up the huts from
their foundations, and vented its futility on the
waves, which it lashed into a fury equal to the
overwhelming of the lighthouse itself. Sometimes
the sun baked every inch of the dry soil
till it resembled the cracked surface of a lava
field, and at others just warmed it in a genial way,
dancing lightly over blue waves and distant sails ;
and occasionally rain blended sea and sky, and
turned both into the mistiness of smoke ; so,
although the cape was wild and dreary, it was
never for long the same.

There were not more than half-a-dozen huts in
the settlement ; of these the chief pilot's dwelling
was the most pretentious. It was built of slab

and had a shingled roof, whereas the rest were
covered with bark, and a verandah all round it ;
but it consisted only of four rooms, a scullery,
and an abutting lean-to, which served as telegraph
office.

It was to this cottage that Esther returned
after her interview with Joe upon the beach.
She stepped on to the verandah with an air of
apprehension, as though she knew not what
violence might await her, and looked timidly
into the sitting-room, before she ventured to cross
the threshold. There was no trace of her father's
presence, and with an air of relief she entered,
laid down her hat and began to spread the cloth
for the pilot's breakfast should he require it ; but
when brandy flowed freely, the consumption of
solid food diminished in proportion. She had
not seen her father since the previous evening,
when he had shut himself up for a booze, and
then had wandered forth in the night for a ramble
along the sea-shore or in the bush, from which
he had not returned.

Esther placed bread and meat upon the table,
and went into the little back kitchen, where she
replenished the fire and saw that the kettle was
on the boil. Then she re-entered the sitting-room,
and her work done, sat down and began to
dream. Poor Esther! in all the wanderings of

VOL. L c

her spirit, her face never lost its anxious deprecatory
expression, the look of a child to whom
the happiness of well-cared-for youth is unknown,
and who has had no education save that of
hardship to fit it for womanhood.

The room in which Esther sat was, save for the
presence of several wild cat and kangaroo skins,
careless. The walls were plainly lined with
canvas, and the windows were guiltless of glass.
Upon stormy days, it was a choice between
closing; the shutters and sitting; ia darkness,
or of being at the mercy of the wind. A few
books were arranged upon hanging shelves over
the mantelpiece, but they were not of a nature
to attract a girl of Esther's tendencies, whose
reading had as yet been confined to the fairy
tales which she borrowed from the little Over-stones,
or such stray novels as found their way to
the pilot station. Upon a rudely fashioned sideboard
stood a bowl of ferns and wild flowers
gathered in a scrub some distance off. There
was also a roughly carpentered couch, and two
or three squatters' chairs in canvas and pine wood
were ranged by the fireplace. The only remarkable
objects in the room were two unglazed
crayon drawings which hung upon the wall.
These were curious, both from the subjects and
their mode of execution. They appeared to be

studies in black and white for painting in oil,
and were full of odd contrasts of light and shade,
and though dashed off carelessly, had an intensity
of conception which was almost genius.

One represented the semi-nude figure of a
drowned woman, floating with face upturned
in a still pool surrounded by high rocks, which
seemed almost to shut out the light of day.
A gleam of sunshine piercing through lurid
clouds, illuminated the face of the dead woman,
and disclosed at its source the same features
glorified into a supernal beauty. Upon the
other side of the picture, a Cain-like figure,
crouching against a rock, looked down with
despairing, remorseful eyes upon his victim.

The second was equally sensational in character.
A man stood dismayed and trembling, in a night
of gloomy darkness, the space immediately
surrounding him peopled by shapes of indescribable
loathsomeness, of which the outlines
were indistinctly revealed by the ghastly light
of a torch held in his hand. He appeared to
have entered a region of horrors, and to be
shrinking appalled from the noxious creatures
with which it abounded. The shadowy form of
a woman, with an angel's face like that in the
picture already described, stretched forth a restraining
hand, and sought to draw him back,

c 2

while lie, with eyes straining into the darkness
beyond, seemed unconscious of the ineffectual
grasp.

Esther was looking at these pictures in a

dreamy way. As a child she had puzzled over

them, and had now but a vague recollection of

their composition. They had been drawn about

two years after the pilot's arrival at Mundoolan

Island, before chink had completely enslaved

him, and when there had been days of remorse

and of forced abstinence. He seldom now touched

chalk or drawing-board. Esther knew that the

woman's face was that of her dead mother, and

she understood now what the subjects were

vaguely intended to convey, and wondered at

her father's insensibility in allowing them to

remain upon the walls. Perhaps he was too embraced

to care, for there they had hung as long as

she could remember, and had been the inspiring

source of many an imaginary picture of her own.

The scenes which passed before her mind's eye

were realistic enough. She had honored for a

mode of expression, and had often taken up pen

or pencil in the vain endeavour to embody her

conceptions, but she lacked executive power, and

had found it sweeter to dream waking, and to

watch the groups flitting by without making

an effort to retain them, than to struggle after

a permanent acquisition which must inevitably
fall short of the ideal. While she was thinking
vaguely and not unpleasantly, her father's
shambling, uncertain footstep struck the verandah,
and, as his figure darkened the doorway, Esther
face changed from its expression of abstraction
to one of apprehension. The tide had evidently
crept in upon him and had warned him to rise,
for his clothes were wet and stained with sand
aDd sea-slime. Hagartt's features were fine, though
his eyes were bleared and his lips coarse. His
shirt was open at the breast, his hair and beard
were dishevelled, and his hand trembled as he
clutched at the table to steady himself. His look
was wild and uneasy, and his face bloated ; yet
in spite of outward degradation, he had in his
bearing the traces of having fallen from a higher
station, and after looking at him, it was impossible
to feel surprise that his daughter's appearance
gave evidence of more innate refinement than
her position warranted. Here was another of
those tragedies only too common in Australia,
that refuge for improvidence and vice.

Joe Bride declared his conviction that Hagartt
was 'not one of our sort," and that if he
could only keep clear of drink, he might sit
down to dinner with the Governor himself and
not feel ashamed ; but Hagartt sober was a rare

phenomenon. He nipped more or less all day
and night, carrying this flask in his breast, taking
sly pulls whenever the insatiate demon Thirst
got the better of him. He spent almost all his
salary in grog, contriving to have it brought
down from Frazerville in the cutters and small
steamers, that passed close to the pilot station.
Sometimes accident limited the supply, and
then he had fits of delirium tremens more or
less violent, and more or less dangerous to
his daughter. Joe Bride upon these occasions
watched over Esther with fatherly care, and
when he saw an outbreak imminent, would send
a sailor on foot to Bully Wallah, with a letter
imploring Mr. Overstone to take her away till
Hagartt came round again. It was he who
advised Esther to secure her door at night, and
had manufactured a rough but efficacious bolt for
that purpose. The girl had now almost attained
to the courage of persons who carry their lives in
their hands. She was fully aware of the danger
to be apprehended from knives and razors when
handled by an inebriate, and knew by heart
the phases of delirium, and the juncture when
precaution became necessary.

You are idling as usual'' said the pilot, and
his intonation, though thickened by intemperance,
harmonised with the suspicion of his antecedents.

I have clone my work, father," replied Esther.
I did not know when you would want breakfast.
There is some cold kid, and I can make your tea
in a minute."

Get me the meat and bread ! Don't you see
that I am wet through ? I'll have something
stronger than tea to drink." He went into the
inner room, and fumbled about for a few moments,
then returned angrily. " Where have you
put the brandy 1 Go and find it this instant."

It is in the cupboard, father. The bottle was
very nearly empty, and I thought that as there
was only a little more — "

Who asked you to think ? " exclaimed Hagartt
angrily. " Have I not forbidden you ever to
touch the brandy ? Leave it where I place it.
Do you hear ? "

Esther rose, and tremblingly produced the bottle
from a cupboard against the wall.

A cup — quick ! " cried Hagartt.

She obeyed, and he filled the vessel nearly
half full, and drank the spirit neat, uttering
with some satisfaction the gurgling sound which
always followed an undiluted draught, and which
Esther had come to regard with ineffable disgust.
A woman who is bound to live with a drunkard,
soon learns to know and to loathe each successive
phase of intemperance. The geniality which

comes after a glass is, to her, scarcely less odious
than the gloom and irritability which precede
it ; she knows so well that each sign of affection
or penitence, is mere drunken sensibility or
maudlin drivel ; and Esther already felt keenly
the hopelessness of endeavouring to influence
a nature, whose inmost feelings demanded the
stimulation of brandy.

The bottle was empty, and Hagartt called for
another, which she supplied. He took his flask
from his breast, and filled it, with shaking hands,
giving vent to an oath as some of the precious
liquor was wasted. He poured out a little more
and drank it, and then seated himself at the table.
Esther placed the meat before him, and waited
upon him while he ate ; the brandy had driven
away his nausea and he made a fair meal. Before
he had finished, Joe Bride appeared at the door.
Hao-art vouchsafed a sullen nod.

o

You hasn't done breakfast yet," said Bride.
Bestir yourself, pilot, for you're wanted on the
beach. That old boat takes a deal of tinkeriug."

"You are carpenter here," said Hagartt; "I
suppose that you can see after it."

I believe it's your business to give orders to
the men," retorted Joe. " There's a large steamer
lying to, and signalling like fury."

Have you made out what she is ? "

The Gwalior from Sydney. It puzzles me
what she wants a pilot for ; the captain knows
the coast as well as I do."

Hagartt sent the captain to a warm place, and
hastily swallowed his last mouthful of brandy.

Have a nip, Joe."

I'm much obliged," replied Joe, " but I takes
my grog at night ; I don t hold with them appetites
before the day's work is begun."

A man needs something to straighten him,"
said Hagartt, " when he has been wet through
with sea-water."

The more fool he for going to sleep on the
beach. Come, stir up, pilot, or you'll get into a
row. You had better smarten yourself a bit,
while I shove the boat out."

Joe went whistling off to the beach, and after a
few hasty touches to his toilette, Hagartt followed
him.

In a few minutes the crew, Hagartt steering,
had pulled off to the steamer, which lay about
four miles out to sea. The people on board had
been watching through their glasses the approach
of the pilot boat, and a young man leaning over
the vessel's side exclaimed in a laughing voice :

"Here is the boat, Captain. We need not
detain you any longer. When Lydyiard has
established his new colony, we'll invite you on

shore and treat yon to hoche de mer son, which,
as far as I can gather, is the only delicacy that
Frazer's Bay produces."

I am sure, gentlemen," said the Captain, who
was fuming at the delay, " that if you consider
the importance of fulfilling the mail contract in
the specified time, you will forgive my anxiety
to get rid of you."

We quite understand," said a small deformed
looking man of sixty or thereabouts, the projector
of the colony to Which the handsome
youth had jestingly alluded. " Accept our thanks
for having delayed your voyage so far as to put
us on shore."

A rope was thrown, and the pilot boat made
fast to the steamer's side, while the four rowers
shipped their oars and waited for orders to climb
the deck. " Stop where you are," shouted the
Captain, " it's not a pilot that I want. Good
morning, Hagartt. Here are two gentlemen for
Bully Wallah. I suppose you can pat them up
till they can hear from Mr. Overstone. Now
look sharp with those portmanteaux."

The hospitality so curtly demanded, was conceded
by Hagartt in a sullen nod. The baggage
was slung into the boat ; the young man and
his companion descended the companion ladder ;
the sailors plied their oars, and in a few

moments, with a splashing and groaning of her
screw, the mail steamer had puffed up steam,
and the pilot boat was being swiftly pulled
towards the shore.

The young man threw a glance of anticipatory
interest at his enforced host. It was not encouraging,
and he turned towards the crew —
brawny seamen, tanned to a reddish brown by
exposure to tropical sun and salt-water, and
indistinguishable from the ordinary sailor, save
by the regulation costume of the pilot service.

Good mornings'" said Brand, for so he was
called. " This is a longish pull for you."

Large steamers seldom come nearer shore''
replied Bride, " and as for the pull, it is all in
the day's work, and is nothing to grumble at on
a fine morning like this."

This looks a dangerous coast," continued
Brand ; " I daresay the sea is rough sometimes."

You're right, sir, it is a ticklish business
pulling five miles out on a dark night, with a
south-easter blowing ; but. Lord bless you ! it's
all use ; the worst of it is, that the rocks never
seem to ha' done growing."

I suppose the reefs are coral mostly ? " said
Brand. " Well, at any rate your profession is an
exciting one, and that is more than I can say
for mine — at present."

And what may yours be, sir ? ''

I'm a soldier, but all the fighting I've had
to do as yet, has been a sham battle on the
parade-ground."

I've no doubt, sir," said Bride with a twinkle
in his eye, " that the petticoat brigade gives you
some trouble."

Brand, who was an extremely handsome young
man, laughed with the pleasing consciousness
that he was a favourite with women. He was
about three-and-twenty, and till he came to
Australia, had led the kind of life usual with
well-born and tolerably well-off young men, who
have expectations, and are popular in society.
Brand almost preferred the Antipodes to the —
in a social sense — wider field offered him in
England, for he liked being king of his company,
and he had no ambition with regard to career
beyond that of enjoyment. Besides, although he
was confident of heirship to a kinless, maternal
uncle, that elderly relative was not tolerant of
youthful vices and follies, and George Brand
wisely preferred to amuse himself at a considerable
distance, whence communication was infrequent
and conveniently hazy, where horseflesh
was cheaper, and feminine society — of the sort
he most affected — as easy of possession.

The two seemed incongruous companions to

have chosen each other, but the fact that
Mr. Lydyiard was a friend of his uncle's partly
explained the connection. Lydyiard was deformed
and partially paralysed, over fifty years
of age, and so ugly, with his coarse grizzled
locks, overhanging brows, and wizened up ungainly
features, that no one could behold him
without at first a feeling of repulsion ; but the
impression wore ofi" with familiarity, and left
in its stead a recognition of talent and power.
Lydyiard was, in fact, a man of some repute
among a set of freethinkers and philosophic
reformers, and though he could base his reputation
upon no tangible work, had yet written
sufficient, in a desultory manner, to confer
notoriety.

He had seated himself in the bows, facing
Hagartt, who wielded the tiller, and from behind
the rowers, could watch the pilot without attracting
attention by his scrutiny. It was long
and minute, and seemed to embrace the smallest
peculiarity of feature and bearing. Surprise,
doubt, conviction, rapidly succeeded each other
upon his face. It was evident that the sight
of Hagartt had produced in his mind a strong
feeling of interest ; it was almost like the shock
of recognition, for he turned visibly pale, and
with difficulty repressed the startled ejaculation

which rose to his lips. Hagartt, in his turn, did
not at first take any notice of the stranger, but
kept his eyes fixed upon the distant shore. It
was only when Brand addressed his friend, that
the pilot started forward with a wild glance at
the new-comer in the bows.

This is a fine coast, Lydyiard, picturesque —
but I should not say that it was good for much
in the matter of cultivation."

'' The country seems well wooded at the
back," replied Lydyiard ; "we see its baldest
extremity."

Who are you ? " asked Hagartt in an abrupt
manner, without special reference to either of the
strangers. " Are you friends of Mr. Overstone ? "

No," said Brand, " we have never seen the
gentleman you have named."

'' Are you free selectors then 1 "

I don t think so," replied Brand, '' at least
I can answer that I am not."

Then what the — is your business ? '' exclaimed
the pilot with savage energy.

Brand looked surprised, and Bride gave a little
whistle. " The boss has got more grog than he
outfit to have on board," he said in a low tone
to Brand ; '* wee call him ' Gentleman Hagartt '
when he's sober, but he ain't much like a
gentleman now."

Hold your — tongue," roared Hagartt ; " who
says I was a gentleman ? I beg your pardon
sir' he added in a tone of sulky apology, " I
have had a bad night and am out of sorts
this morning."

I know," said Brand sympathetically. " It's
bad liquor that does it — T am sure that my friend
]mr. Lydyiard will be delighted to give you any
information you may wish for. We are here on
his business, not on mine. Go on, Lydyiard.
Fire away."

I have come to inspect some land," said
Lydyiard, rousing himself with a jerk, " for a
colonization project in which I am interested.
You will probably know the place, — it is called,
I believe, Bishop Meddlicott's Selection."

"Yes, I know the place," said Hagartt ; 'rit lies
about ten miles from the pilot station, but you'll
have a difficulty m inspecting it without horses
or guide."

Can neither be procured here ? "

'' Certainly not, unless you apply to Mr.
Overstone."

And he lives — "

"At Bully Wallah Station, twenty miles from
the Cape."

Brand made a wry face. *' Is there no inn on
the island ? "

**' Fourteen years ago the island was unknown,
save upon the chart, as a coast to beware of,"
replied Hagartt with scorn. '' There are exactly
twelve white people upon it, not counting the
spare hands Mr. Overstone employ's during
mustering. Is it likely there should be an
inn ? "

It seems to me that we are in a fix," said
Brand.

I've heard that Mister Overstone means to
muster the north end directly," put in Bride.
*' He'll be here in a day or two — he's bound to
send some meat over, for we have been living on
goat's flesh for a week or more."

I have a spare room in my house," said
Hagartt. " It is at your disposal if you choose ;
otherwise you must sleep in the bush."

"We accept it with pleasure," exclaimed
Brand.

I am reluctant to trespass upon your hospitality,"
said Lydyiard with cold politeness ;
but I fear that in the present circumstances
I have no choice — I was under the impression
that I should have no difficulty in reaching Bully
Wallah."

The boat grated upon the shingle. The tide
was low, and several yards of water intervened
before the shore could be reached. The sailors

pulled up their trousers and jumped into the sea,
dragging the boat as far as possible. Brand, who
did not want for spirit, and was always amiably
ready to do what he saw was the correct thin oro



under the circumstances, even though it might
involve an unpleasant wetting — followed their
example, and Joe Bride turned, and after a
momentary hesitation, offered his broad back to
Mr. Lydyiard.

I am not as helpless as you imagine," said
the latter, " or it would have been very unwise
of me to venture into the bush. Eighteen years
ago I was as active as my young friend here ;
nevertheless, my good fellow, I won't disdain
your offer, for you seem well up to my weight."

Hagartt, with the thirst upon him again, turned
behind a rock, and while the others were drawing
on their shoes, took a pull at his flask.

VOL. L D

THE PRINCE APPEARS.

A ROUGH path cut in the cliff, led to the pilot's
house. Hagartt walked ahead and entered the
hut first, beckoning to the strangers to follow
him. Mr. Lydyiard held back with a visible
reluctance, conquered however in a moment; but
Brand, with a pleased interest in a new dwelling,
stepped gaily on to the verandah. Esther had
seen the new-comers in the distance, and had
retired to the back of the hut, but Brand's quick
eyes took in the girl's hat upon the sofa, and the
glimpse of a woman's bedchamber visible through
its half-open door.

The moment he entered the sitting-room., Mr.
Lydyiard s attention was riveted by the crayon
drawings already described. Though he had
been in a measure prepared for the encounter,
he could barely repress a cry of astonishment
at finding himself confronted by a ghost of his

early life, in the pictured face of the woman,
who had most vitally influenced his career. The
suspicion which had been shaping itself in his
mind, became certainty, and he was obliged to
sit down to recover the shock it had caused
him.

Brand had seen his friend's eyes fixed upon
the drawings. Having a respect for Lydyiard's
knowledge of art, he thought it the correct ihino-
to admire, and uttered an unintelligent criticism.
*' That's an uncommonly nice picture," he said,
pointing to the larger of the two subjects. *' Puts
me in mind of some of Dore's things. It's exactly
like one of his women, but one misses the fellow
with the long nose who is always beside her."

Hagartt took no notice of the remark, but threw
open the door of the third room, which contained
two pallet beds and a wash-stand. " This is the
only accommodation I can offer you. Pray make
the best of it. I must go to my work now, but
if you would like anything to eat or drink, it
shall be got ready for you''

"Thank you," said Brand; "I am rather
hungry — it is some time since we breakfasted."

Hagartt pointed to the green bottle upon the
sideboard. "There is some brandy." Then he
shouted " Esther!" and disappeared into the outer
regions, whence the two men caught the sound

D 2

of an oath and of a whispered colloquy, and
presently they saw the pilot passing the verandah
on his way to the beach.

What a brute ! " said Brand. " Yet in spite
of his bad language and rough manner, there is
something about him, which gives one the idea
that he has known better days. What heaps of
fellows one sees in Australia who have gone
to the devil through drink ! "

Ay," replied Lydyiard, in a voice that sounded
like a groan.

What is the matter ? " asked Brand, suddenly
becoming alive to the alteration in his friend's
face. " How pale you are ! You'll make but a
poor explorer if you knock up so quickly.'^

"It is the sun," pleaded Lydyiard, faintly ;
and the hot walk up the cliff."

Try some brandy. There does not seem to
be a tumbler anywhere about, but I might forage
in the cupboards. Who the deuce is * Esther,'
I wonder ? "

Almost as Brand spoke the door opened, and
Esther, advancing timidly, performed a shy but
not ungraceful curtsey. Her large eyes turned
from one stranger to the other in a 7ia'ive surprise.
She had never seen any one in her life so handsome
as Brand — certainly no one of that superior
type. He, too, regarded her with astonished

admiration. He was keenly susceptible to beauty,
and for this had not been prepared. He took off
his hat and bowed profoundly.

My father says that you are hungry' said
Esther, looking at them with her wonderful eyes.
She caught Lydyiard's fixed upon her with a
mournful, eager interest, and blushed and looked
down. " ril get dinner ready as soon as I
can.

"You are very good. Tm afraid that we are
giving trouble," murmured Brand. *' My friend
here feels seedy with the heat. I ought to
introduce him. Mr. Lydyiard, Miss 1 '^

Esther Hobart," said the Q-irl.

My name is George Brand. Your father
offered us some brandy, and I was just going
to forage for a days."

Esther ran to the back for a jug of water and
two cups.

We have no glass, sir''

Fair Hebe ! " murmured Brand, gallantly.
What more could one desire ? Shall I mix for
you, Lydyiard ? He is not always so silent, Miss
Hagartt ; I can tell you that he is a very clever
fellow."

Lydyiard uttered a contemptuous snarl as he
poured out some brandy and water, and drank
it quickly ; then for the first time he addressed

Esther. "You are Mr. Hao-art's daus^liter, I
presume ? "

"Yes, sir."

"His only child?"

Esther replied again in the affirmative.

And how old are you ? "

Really Lydyiard," exclaimed Brand, "I must
protest. It is scarcely polite to question a young
lady in that point blank way, five minutes after
your first introduction."

Pshaw ! " said Mr. Lydyiard. " Are we ina
Belgravian drawing-room ? "

I shall be seventeen my next birthday,"
replied Esther simply, " that is, 1 was sixteen last
month."

Lydyiard looked from her to the drawing
upon the wall. " You are like the woman's face
in that picture. She is your mother ? "

That was my mother, sir," replied Esther.

Is she dead 1 " asked Lydyiard eagerly.

She died four years ago," replied Esther sadly.

"Dead!" repeated Lydyiard in a blank
manner ; " dead ! Well, it is best."

Esther's lips trembled, and she turned away
and began to lay the cloth for dinner. Leopard
took up his hat and left the room, just pausing at
the door to say, " Do not wait for me, I am not
hungry ; I will take a stroll."

You complained of not feeling well just now,"
cried Brand in an expostulatory tone, but Lydyiard
walked away without taking any notice of his
remark. " My friend is a little eccentric," said
Brand. " Most talented persons are odd in their
manner at times. '^

'' I thought that he looked unhappy," said
Esther, fixing her large soft eyes upon Mr.
Lydyiard's vanishing figure. " Is he unhappy,
sir ? "

Upon my soul I don't know," replied Brand,
Very few people are quite happy, I suppose; but
Lydyiard ought to be satisfied. He has plenty
of money, and has no one to bother him. To be
sure, his ideas are peculiar, and I have read that
great minds often make their possessors wretched."

Esther put down the plate she was carrying,
and stood still as if she were revolving a problem,
It would be better to have the great mind," she
said, " even if it made one wretched."

*' He has a scheme on hand," continued Brand.
It is to send some people out here who have no
religion in particular, and all kinds of queer
notions about progress, and who want to set
themselves up as a kind of model colony. I'm
hanged if I understand about them, except that
they have no money. England you see is all
very well for rich people and labourers, and the

very poor whom one has to look after, but
Lydyiard goes in for political economy and that
sort of thing, like John Stuart Mill, you know.
Oh, he is a wonderfully clever person, and my
uncle, Lord Coniston, thinks a great deal of
him."

Esther was not so much impressed by Brand's
communications as he had intended her to be ; she
left the room, and presently returned, bearing a
smoking dish of meat which she placed upon the
table.

'* That is a curious looking joint," said Brand.

'* It is kid, sir."

Brand laughed, '' AVhat an odd notion it is,
being fed like the patriarchs ! But I am not to
eat alone ? "

I don't think father will come in, sir : it is
not long since he breakfasted."

Brand insisted that she should bear him
company, and they sat down together ; but he
was too hungry to fii]d fault with his fare or to
talk much. When he had finished, Esther removed
the plates, and Brand threw himself back in his
chair, longing inwardly for something stronger
than water to wash down his repast.

Now, how shall we spend the afternoon ? " he
said. " A stroll round the beach, and a cigar, if
you didn't mind smoke, would be delightful.

Will you come and show me the way, Miss
Hagartt ? "

*' I am quite sure that you could not lose
yourself, sir," said Esther ; " and I don't think
that I could come now. I have to wash these
plates and dishes, and to prepare your room for
to-night."

It was evident that the pilot kept no servant,
and somehow the idea of this adorably pretty
child of nature acting as maid of all work, was
so repugnant to Brand's aesthetic ideas that he
pressed her no further for her companionship, but
departed, muttering that he would seek his friend.
He lit his cigar, and wandered round the cliff,
but without seeing any traces of Lydyiard, who,
evidently desiring solitude, had chosen a path
in which he was not likely to be overtaken.
Brand would have felt better pleased had his
company been solicited. Like most vain persons,
he admired talent, when it was not placed in
aggressive relationship with his own superficiality.
He had been pleased that Lydyiard should have
invited him to join his exploring expedition, and
wished that all the world should know what
a distinguished man had chosen him for a
companion. The good or evil repute of individuals,
depended more or less, in Brand's mind,
upon their connection with himself. The truth

was, that the young man had got into a scrape
about a woman in Sydney — an Antipodean
Lais, who was ruthlessly fleecing her young
adorer ; and in an inconsistent impulse of
benevolence towards one with whom he had
nothing in common, Lydyiard had procured
Brand leave from head-quarters, and had carried
him out of harm's way.

A word about Lydyiard. He had commenced
life as the incumbent of a family living, with
a younger son's portion, since considerably
augmented by an inheritance from a mercantile
relation. He was ending it as a positivist, a
dabbler in science, and in the moral and theological
questions of the day. He was the friend of
political economists, and wrote for some of the
higher-thought magazines. He was alone in the
world, and spent much of his time in travelling.
There was a story barely extant of his early
marriage, and subsequent desertion, but it was
almost forgotten by the few persons who knew
the circumstances ; and the world at large was
utterly ignorant of his private history. He had
not in the days of his connection with the Church
been a person of any notoriety. Whatever mental
struggles he might have undergone had been kept
hidden in his own breast, and till his secession
to the ranks of atheism, he had never aired his

views in the faces of the orthodox. He had
rather cherished dreams of a life of obscurity
and domestic happiness, and not till these had
faded into the grey of disappointment, had he
changed his mode of existence, and promulgated
the extreme opinions which had since become
associated with his name.

Brand wandered on by the coast, more for the
sake of something to do, than from any pleasure
that the sea afforded him. He did not care for
solitude, and had he not been thinking of Esther,
would have been dull indeed. The half-revealed
capacity in the girl's face, though he did not
understand it, attracted him. The extreme
refinement of her appearance puzzled him ; and
he was angry that she should live in so mean
a house, and perform duties which seemed to
him to degrade her, and to degrade his own
admiration of her. Understand, that he had no
purely unselfish dislike to seeing the hands of
a tender girl sullied by rough labour, but he
objected to the work because it brought unpleasant
visions into his mind, and interfered
with his enjoyment of Esther's beauty and
unconscious grace.

After an hour's walk over shingle and sand,
studded with dead jellyfish, and strewn with
stranded seaweed and shells, Brand took a turn

inland, leaving the coast a little to his right.
About the distance of a mile from the pilot
station, in a little valley between the sea-line
upon one side, and a bare hill upon the other, he
came upon a small enclosure. It was fenced in
by white railings, and looked green compared
with the surrounding herbage, and it contained
a mound — a grave probably — though there was
neither monument or inscription to denote
whether it was that of man, woman, or beast.
A rose-bush in full bloom shed its blossoms
upon the turf, and a tiny cross of white shells,
looking in the distance like flowers, was placed
upon it.

A grave in the midst of solitude, in a place
where it is least to be expected, brings a chill
to the most careless. Brand never gave much
thought to death. He was of too pleasure-loving
a temperament to care to be reminded that he
was mortal. He wondered whether this was
the grave of Esther's mother, and if so, whether
it was she who tended it so carefully. He
turned his back upon it, and went away a few
paces to a sheltered nook, where he lit a cigar,
and, tired with the walk, stretched himself lazily
upon the grass. The soft air, the swash of the
waves, and the buzz of innumerable insects
around him, made him drowsy, and soon after

he had thrown away the end of his cigar, he
was asleep.

It was sunset when he awoke and stretched
himself. The flutter of a woman's garment
about the grave attracted his attention, and
peering cautiously round the rock which sheltered
him from her view, he saw Esther sitting
in the enclosure. Her hands where clasped before
her, her eyes were fixed dreamily upon the sea,
and tears were flowing softly down her cheeks —
tears which did no detriment to her beauty, for
the setting sun shed a glow upon her face, and
seemed to surround her with a soft radiance. Her
loneliness — the hour — her picturesque attitude —
the sight of her grief — fired Brand to enthusiastic
pity. He crept softly round to the enclosure,
entered the open gate, and stood beside
her, almost before she was aware of his presence.

Oh ! why are you crying '? " he asked, with
great tenderness. " Do not cry. Can I not do
anything to help you ? "

Esther looked at him, too thunderstruck at
first by his solicitude to be grateful for the
sorrow he expressed. To be pitied in a sympathetic
way was so new to her. No one since her
mother's death had troubled themselves much
about what she was thinking or feeling. To be
sure, Joe Bride forcibly expressed his indignation

at any tangible ill-treatment she received, and
Mrs. Overstone openly told her that she was a
fool to remain with a man who beat her ; but
this was something quite different, and quite
outside her ordinary experiences.

** I am so sorry for you' continued Brand.
I could see from the first moment I saw you
to-day that you were unhappy, and I longed to
comfort you."

"Thank you, sir," replied Esther, looking up
at him with eyes through which her heart went
trustingly out to him.

But you will not tell me what grieves you.
You will not believe that T feel for you as deeply
as if — as if — ," pausing for words, " you were my
sister. You look upon me as a stranger, and
perhaps think me impertinent for offering you
sympathy ? "

No, no," cried Esther, stung to remorse by
the imputation of ingratitude. " How could
your being sorry for me seem impertinent ?
You are so good — so kind ; but it is difficult to
explain, sir ; I don't know why I cried — I was
lonely and wanted my mother, and — " she sobbed
again.

Poor child," said Brand, and he ventured
to touch her hand, and then to stroke it softly.
She was so bewitching in her grief, that had

he yielded to impulse, he would have kissed her
tears away ; but though she was such a child,
and though she seemed so entirely innocent, and
was so much below himself, he dared not venture
upon such a caress. " I am so sorry for you''
he repeated ; *' I am not surprised that you are
lonely and that you miss your mother. This is
her grave, I suppose. Tell me — is it long since
she died ? "

Four years — four years last August ; and this
is November," answered Esther with unconscious
pathos. " She is buried here."

Go on, my poor child' said Brand, pressing
her hand. ** Tell me all that you will of yourself,
of your sorrow. You don't know how interested
I feel in you."

Sir," asked Esther, looking at him with
trusting eyes, '' you know perhaps, and you
weill not think me foolish for asking — can the
dead, if they see those they love cruelly treated
and miserable — can they come back again 1 "

It was a matter which George Brand had never
considered. It was not his habit to reflect deeply
upon abstract questions. So-called spiritualism
had always been to him a subject for ridicule.
Had the question been put to him in a different
fashion, he would probably have laughed then.
As it Vv^as, he answered a little awkwardly, ** I

don't know ; some think they do, but it is
all nonsense. I mean it is impossible. People
can never come back after they are dead. They
would not be the same, you know."

No," said Esther, " of course they would not
be the same. They would be sweeter and lovelier
and less unhappy. It is such a comfort to think
that no one cries when they are dead. I should
like to feel sure that it is so. Sometimes I feel
almost certain that it is, and Joe Bride thinks so
too."

What put the notion into your head ? "

^' Sometimes when I am wakeful at night, and
the house is quite still, I can feel my mother
bending over me, and I fancy that if it were
light, I should be able to see her face. When I
am alone and unhappy she seems to say, * Never
mind, darling,' just as she used when she was
alive ; and when I am walking by myself in the
bush, the air seems full of shapes, and her voice
tells me to be brave and to bear. ind I will
bear' added the girl with a resolute tightening
of her lips. " They have asked me to go away,
but I never will — for I promised her that I would
not."

AVho have asked you ? "

'' Mr. and Mrs. Overstone. They think that
I might live at Bully Wallah and help with the

children, but I will not ; I only go to them when
Joe tells me that I ought."

Esther withdrew her hand which Brand had
retained within his own, and began to uproot
the inch-high grass that had sprung up among
the shells on the grave. Had her fingers been
like those of a kitchen maid, with thick epidermis
and sullied tips, George would have felt no inclination
to regain their possession ; but they
were tapering, and if brown, had no trace of
coarseness. She was deficient in none of those
critical points which are patent to men. Her
ears were small and shell-like ; her hair was
glossy and well kept ; the frill round her neck
immaculate. She might have been a princess
disguised in a faded and ill-made cotton gown.

*' 1 cannot understand you," exclaimed George
impulsively.

^^Why?" asked Esther.

You are so — so — " he pulled himself up on
the verge of a compliment, and added, ''so different
to what one would have expected to see
here. Esther — may I call you Esther ? — you
seem such a child, and ' Miss Hagartt ' is so inappropriate
— you will let me call you Esther ? "

Esther saw nothing strange in the request.
It would have appeared incongruous had he continued
to address her as Miss Hagartt.

VOL. I. E

'* Every one calls me Esther — and wliy not
you ? "

Every one ! " exclaimed Brand with some
pique ; " who is every one 1 "

All the people I see — the sailors, and Mr.
and Mrs. Overstone.^'

"And have you no other acquaintances? Are
there no young gentlemen for instance, whom you
like, and who come occasionally to see you ? "

I don't know any young men. Mrs. Over-stone
says that there are many on the mainland,
but they never come here. I don't think," she
added reflectively, " that I ever saw a young
gentleman in my life before — yes, once, at Bully
Wallah."

Who was he ? "

''A new chum, who was with Mr. Overstone
for a little time, but they did not like him, and
he went away."

'* Esther, I want to be your friend. I am so
sorry for you, and you seem to me so gentle and
refined. I should like to make your life happier.
Will you let me try ? "

With his words a new phase of existence
seemed to open before Esther. A young man
with pitiful eyes, and a soft voice, who wore
good clothes — far better than even Mr. Over-stone's
town-going garments — and whose ways

were unlike those of the people among whom she
lived, spoke tenderly to her, and offered to try
and make her lot pleasant. The very fact of
his interest, seemed to her sufficient guarantee for
the fulfilment of his vague promise. The meeting
with him beside her mother's grave, and his
association with the most hallowed influence of
her life ; the suddenness and strangeness of his
arrival upon the island, made his advent seem
like the direct answer to her petitions.

We will be friends," continued Brand, taking
her hand again, " and we can sympathise with
each other. You may be a comfort to me as
well, for I too am lonely sometimes."

'' You, sir ! '' repeated Esther incredulously.

You may think it strange, but it is true.
You see I am older than you are, and though
I have knocked about the world, and have things
to do, of which you know nothing, I am just as
lonely in reality. And a man is different to a
girl — he gets low and hipped very often. What
he wants is a sweet, tender little creature — a
friend, who will always care for him no matter
what he does. If you were a man, you would
grow tired of shooting, and billiards, balls, and
dinners, and that sort of thing, if you had no
one to be fond of — of course," added Brand, his
vanity correcting his statements, "I don't mean

E 2

LIBRARY

0>)IV€RSrTY OF fl-dunois

that there would not be many people to care for
one if one wished, but perhaps they would not
be quite the persons whom one could like in
return. Do you understand, Esther ? "

'' I am not sure that I do, sir, for I have had
so few pleasures, or friends either ; and I have

always cared for the people who have liked

J)
me.

'' But if the ' new chum 'the fellow at Bully
Wallah — had liked you, and I have no doubt
that he did, would you have cared for him in
return ? "

"They laughed at him, sir, and he was stupid
and ugly, and covered with mosquito bites."

•• You see," said Brand, " it is not every one
of whom one is able to make a friend. We may
oo on for lomond not stumble across the right
person. One may meet people one likes, but
only on the surface as it were. You can make
a friend of me, Esther, can you not ? ''

I think so, sir," murmured Esther, shyly.

*that is right. And remember that we have
made the compact here by your mother s grave,
and it must not be broken."

Neither of them considered how soon Brand's
stay at the pilot station might terminate — that
seemed of little consequence. Esther sat still, her
arm thrown over the mound, her heart full of a

new, strange happiness. Brand's allusion to her
dead mother seemed to ratify and renew all her
first impressions of him. He had, consciously or
unconsciously, touched the spring of sympathy,
and without formulating her ideas, Esther took
it for granted that their minds ran in a like
Groove, as the vouno^ do take things for granted,
when they build up a character in perfect harmony
with their own, on the slender foundation of a
chance or premeditated appeal to their tenderest
susceptibilities.

The lio^ht was fading into orrevness, but the
soft shadows seemed all in keeping with the
delightful discovery, that there was a young
heart in the world ready to share the burden
of loneliness and misconception which her heart
had borne. George had, during the pause, lighted
another cigar. The pretty flint that he used,
while she mechanically watched the process, the
fragrant puffs of smoke, the perfume upon his
hankerchief, all combined to heighten the delicate
intoxication. Esther awakened with a start to
a sense of the lateness of the hour, and of
the duties which awaited her at home.

*' Oh ! " she cried guiltily, '^ I must go back.
I have to get supper ready. See how late it

is!"

Brand grave a little shiver. He had been in

that state of dreamy enjoyment, which a certain
type of man might feel, when smoking by the
sea-shore, upon a calm tropical evening, with
a pretty girl, too lately known to have ceased
to be interesting, within arm's length of him.

Esther ! I was so thoroughly happy, I could
have sat on by your side for ever, but that
suggestion of supper destroyed all my pleasure.
I hate to think of you reddening your face over
a fire, and doing the work of housemaid or
scullion."

"But you would hate still more, sir, to have
nothing to eat'' said Esther, with a shy archness.


True, and under present conditions, life would
be little short of Elysium if there were a well-served
dinner and a bottle of old wine awaiting
us on our return. Well, let us go ! "

A DISTURBED NIGHT.

It was quite dark when Esther and her companion
reached the pilot's hut. Mr. Lydyiard
was sitting in one of the squatters' chairs in the
verandah.

So you are back before us," said Brand. "Have
you had a long walk ? I looked for you, but could
not find you. I daresay that you are hungry."

'' Yes, I am hungry," said Lydyiard, speaking
in an oddly constrained voice, aud looking at
Esther. " Perhaps you will give me something to
eat ? It is humiliating to discover the necessity
for food."

Why humiliating ? " asked Brand. *' We are
all alike, and I for my part, should be sorry todo
away with one of the pleasures of existence.
It was only a few moments ago that I was wishing
for a well-cooked dinner. Not," he added
in a lower tone, for Esther had gone into the

sitting-room, and was lighting the lamp, '* that
the wish is likely to be gratified here. I should
be perfectly satisfied with my quarters if the
cuisine were better. We had boiled kid for
luncheon to-day. It always puzzled me how
Rebecca contrived to take in Isaac in the matter
of the venison, and I am more than ever convinced
that the old patriarch was a rank
dufi'er."

I have tasted worse fare," said Lydyiard.

What do you think of our prospects ? " asked
Brand, carelessly.

"lam not at all certain that Mundoolan Island
will suit my purposes," replied Lydyiard shortly.
If there were any means of departure 1 would
leave it immediately ; but the sailor Bride tells
me that steamers pass irregularly, and do not
always stop when signalled. I have been taking
directions about the road, and intend setting
off tomorrow for Bully Wallah,"

Walking I " exclaimed Brand, aghast. " How
can you manage that ? "

I am more active than you suppose, and
the nights are warm ; we can camp half way."

Oh ! " said Brand, a little crestfallen, " I
don't much care about that plan. I am very
happy here, and would rather wait till something
turns up."

*yon will of course please yourself," said
Lydyiard. "I shall do the same."

He spoke so curtly, that Brand began to
question whether talented peculiar beings were
the pleasantness travelling companions.

Esther had lighted the lamp within, and had
placed the obnoxious kid, with some bread and
tea, upon the table.

Supper is ready, sir. I don't know whether
father has come in — perhaps you can tell me ? "

*'No," answered Lydyiard, *but I heard
sounds in an adjoining .room. He may have
returned before me."

Esther disappeared into the little passage
which ran through the hut, and knocked at
the door of her father's bedroom ; waiting a
moment, she entered softly. Though the door
was closed, the two men distinctly heard what
passed on the other side of the partition.

Father," she asked, " will you come to
tear'

"Go away ! What the — do I VN-ant with
tea?" replied a thick, drunken voice from within.
Send me some more brandy and let me get
drunk. I'm happy when I am drunk. I'm
safe then. Drink drives the devils away."

There was a whispered entreaty or expostulation,
then the sound of a scuffle, and a violent

rejoinder in language which may be softened
upon this page. " I don't want to have anything
to do with the gentlemen. What has
Lydyiard come here for ? I suppose be thinks
that I have forgotten him. It is all — nonsense
about his colony ; I know that very well. Go
and get me some brandy — you. Do you
hear ? "

Father, there is no more left' cried poor
Esther. '' Oh, don't hurt me ; it is not my
fault. They should have brought some from
Frazerville last week, but it was forgotten."

*that is a lie. I don't believe a word you
say. You have hidden it because you are so
selfish that you cannot bear me to forget my
misery for an hour. You are just like your
mother. Was ever man cursed with such a
tormenting devil ? but I'll be even with you —
I'll drink till the brandy oozes out of every
pore in my body. Then you may say, if you
choose, that the smell sickens you. Oh, go
away and leave me — I hate the sight of you."

It was evident that Hobart was confusion
Esther with her mother, who had suffered in
his alternate fits of violence and remorseful
tenderness. He had been nipping all the afternoon,
and coming in to search for more brandy,
had finished the bottle which had been produced

for the refreshment of the strangers. Now he
had shut himself up in his room, and would
either fall asleep or become dangerous. Esther
was perfectly aware of this, and her one thought
was to escape from his vicinity.

I want to go," she said, " but I cannot.
You are holding me so tight."

There, then ! " And there was the shock of
a fall, and the slight wall shook with the weight
of the girl's body, thrown violently against it.

"The brute will kill her," exclaimed Brand,
rising in agitation. " I can't stand this. It
makes my blood curdle to think of her in therewith
him alone." He was moving to the door
when Lydyiard, who had been listening, stopped
him.

Don't go. The girl has risen and is coming
back. He shall not touch her again."

Esther staggered into the room, and sank upon
a chair.

Are you hurt ? " asked Lydyiard, anxiously.

She did not reply immediately, and they
thought for a moment that she had been injured
by her fall.

Say something," implored Brand. " Your
forehead is bleeding. I am sure that you are
hurt."

Esther put up her hand to her brow, and drew

it back stained with Blood. 'rit is only a scratch.
He threw me against the door. It doesn't hurt
much. He was drunk, — and he minds nothing;
when he is drunk. Don't trouble — no one ever
cared except my mother, and he beat her too
sometimes."

Lydyiard made a movement with his clenched
hand, and Brand said quickly, " / care, Esther.
My heart bleeds for you. Let me tie my handkerchief
round your head — so."

He bound up the wound a little awkwardly,
but his touch thrilled gratefully through the
girl's frame. Presently she rose and tottered
to the door of her chamber, pausing to say,
'' Sit down and eat ; he will not disturb you,
and you must be hungry. Don't mind him,
perhaps he will go to sleep." Then she retreated
— closing and bolting the door behind her.

Esther," said Brand reproachfully, '' it is not
your father we mind about ; it is you."

Leave her alone," said Lydyiard. " You can
do her no good."

Esther ! " repeated Brand. '' Only say one
word. Tell me if you are in pam ? "

'' No ! " was the muffled reply.

*' Can I do nothing for you ? "

"No, no! I am safe here. He cannot come
in to me."

"He shall Ivill me," exclaimed Brand,
vehemently, " before he molests you again ! "

L3^dyiard sat down, and commenced his
supper.

How can you eat ? " said Brand, pushing
away his plate.

You forget that I have scarcely tasted food
to-days''

My appetite has quite gone — the smell of
brandy sickens me."

Pshaw ! You have seen men drunk before
now."

"It is not that. I am not more squeamish
than most people. It is that poor girl. I am
haunted by the dumb misery upon her face. To
think that a man can sink so low as to ill-treat
a beautiful, helpless creature like that ! Yet
Hagartt does not look like the conventional
drunkard, who kicks his wife, and beats his
children. I wonder if he was ever a gentleman
! "

Perhaps ! but you have seen enough of
Australia to be aware, that here, vice and
drink level all classes."

Lydyiard ! " said Brand, struck by a sudden
thought, " do you know anything of this
man ? "

Why do you ask, Brand ? "

I don't know. Something in your manner
to-day, and his own words to Esther, made the
thought rise to my mind. To be sure, the man
is so drunk that he cannot have known what
he was saying."

"Don't trouble yourself to think of it,
George. I can tell you nothing of the pilot's
antecedents."

^^He seems quiet now," said Brand, after a
pause. '^ Do you suppose that he will attempt
to enter her room ? "

*' Esther cannot be harmed. Joe Bride tells
me that he has put a bolt upon her door, and
that she is quite safe at night."

"You seem to have been having a long
conversation with Bride."

He has been giving me a description of the
island," answered Lydyiard, not thinking it
necessary to inform Brand that he had also
learned much from Joe about the pilot and his
family.

I shall not sleep a wink to-night," said
Brand. " Come and let us smoke a cigar in the
verandah. I cannot leave this place tomorrow,
Lydyiard."

*' As you please, Brand."

I must stay and protect that poor girl from
further ill-treatment."

George," said Lydyiard, laying his hand upon
the young man's arm, " I am your uncle's friend,
and may give you a word of advice. I have
seen enough of you to know that you are dangerous
to women. Do not injure this young girl's
peace of mind. I see that she attracts you ; but
remember that you do not meet on equal ground.
She is as helpless as an unfledged sparrow."

What do you take me for ? " cried Brand,
warmly. "You judge me wrongly. Do you
suppose that I am capable of harming her ? "

I know that you once ruined an innocent
girl," said Lydyiard sternly.

I was a boy then," said Brand, and went on
smoking in silence for a few minutes. Presently
he said, as though to escape from an unpleasant
subject — " There is only one thing to be said
in favour of these bush huts. Neither outrage
nor robbery can take place in them without being
heard by every inmate. Esther is safe for tonight.
To-morrow it will be time enough to
consider our movements. Won't you have a
cigar, Lydyiard ? "

"No, thank you," replied Lydyiard. "I will
leave you ; for I am very tired, and if I cannot
sleep, will at least try and rest."

Brand went on smoking and contemplating
the southern constellations for an hour longer.

The moon was rising over the feathery tips of
the bread-fruit trees, and the sea in front of him,
and the forest stretching into blackness behind
the cape, gave a sense of solitude and vastness
which was almost bewildering. Out of the bush
there came a low monotonous baying of native
doo's, and at intervals a melancholy whistle of
curlews ; but within, all was quiet. *' How unlike
it is to everything English ! " murmured the
young man, " and how impossible it would be
to treat Esther like a conventional vouno; lady."
It almost seemed to him that the fact of her
up-bringing, under conditions so dissimilar to
those which govern the existence of most women,
gave him ample licence in his relations with her.
He waited on in the vain hope of her reappearance,
and then, disappointed, listened at her door
for a minute, and murmured below his breath
*' Esther," sang his conscience with the assurance
that he wished to satisfy himself of her
well-being ; but no response came, and he was
obliged reluctantly to seek his chamber : there
he found Lydyiard lying dressed and broad
awake upon one of the two uninviting beds.

Brand surveyed with supreme dissatisfaction
the meagre preparations for his repose. He
protested that under the circumstances sleep
would be quite out of the question, but he was

young enough not to be seriously disturbed by a
hard couch, and after grumbling at intervals at
the discomfort he was called upon to endure, and
at Lydyiard's philosophic resignation to fate,
turned over, and went into a sound sleep.

Not so Lydyiard. He tossed about for several
hours, alert at the smallest sound. Once he
rose and tried Esther's door to satisfy himself
that it was securely bolted. It seemed to him
as he lay awake, his nerves on the stretch, and
his impressions intensified by the darkness and
strangeness of the place, that he had walked unawares
into the midst of a tragedy, with which
his own life was intimately interwoven.

By and by Ha gar t awoke from his drunken
sleep, and Lydyiard could hear him muttering
and groping about in his chamber — then all was
quiet again. Lydyiard could not bear to lie
still any longer. He got up and sat by the
window, which he opened, letting in the silvery
radiance, while he looked out upon the lighthouse,
and the never-ending expanse of ocean glistening
in the moonlight. He felt that after his discovery
of to-day, this place could never be to him as an
ordinary resting-place in his wanderings. The
bluff cape would always be imprinted in vivid
colouring and bold outlines upon his memory,
and he seemed already to know its ins and outs,

VOL. I. F

its various phases of storm and sunshine, as
though he had lived upon it for years. It was
difficult to imagine the high-spirited woman he
had known, wearing out here a hopeless and
miserable existence. Then he bethought him
that she must be buried somewhere on the
cape. A longing seized him to go out in the
moonlight and find her grave ; to gaze upon
the sod which covered her, when no one could
look prying at him, or inquire the cause of his
emotion. Not that he had any intention of
giving way to sentimental grief — that, if he had
ever felt any, had been worn out long ago ; but
he wanted to convince himself of the fact of her
existence here, and of the reality of her death.

It was easy, supporting himself by the
window-sill, to let himself gently down till his
feet touched the incline upon which the house
was built, and as the clock in the sitting-room
struck one, guided by an unaccountable instinct,
he descended the cliff, and walked on by the same
path which Esther and George had followed a
few hours before.

In time he reached the enclosure, and though
there was no tangible evidence of the fact, he
knew intuitively that this was the grave of
Esther s mother. He walked up to the railings,
and leaning over them, looked for a little while

fixedly at the mound, without being aware that
a dark figure, partially concealed by the rose-bush
Esther had planted, lay motionless beside it.
Lydyiard buried his face in his hands and shook
with the pent-up agitation which had all day
been struggling for vent. " Eugenie," he said,
half aloud, " I am glad to know your fate,
though it is wretched enough to stir up all my
dead remorse. Your life had no joy, and you
died without honour. Your dream of ideal happiness
apart from duty, has ended as might have
been foreseen. It was like a woman to hope that
thistles could yield grapes ! "

His voice roused the mourner, and Lydyiard
started back as he beheld Hagartt slowly raise
himself, looking ghastly in the moonlight, with
protruding eyes and nervously twitching fingers.
He stretched his arms out over the grave,
staring through and beyond the figure by the
railings, as though he saw something spectral
behind it ; and it was so to the drunken man — he
had awakened from his sleep, and with the fit upon
him had seen his dead wife standing: outside in
the moonlight, beckoning him on to her grave.

This is true melodrama," muttered Lydyiard,
turning away, but unable to avoid hearing the
address which Hagartt was making to the ghostly
figure of his imagination.

F 2

I have come," he said in a low, awestruck
voice, '^ I have come because you wanted me ;
I have not brought the knife, for I was afraid
that if you saw it, it might frighten you away,
Eugenie. Eugenie, don't leave me, I am so
wretched. There is a creature inside me always
gnawing ; it has sharp pointed teeth ; it is slimy
like a snake. It never gives me any rest except
when I am drunk. I have fearful dreams. 1
sometimes dream that I have killed you — but
I know that cannot be true. They are to blame
for it. They have long white fingers, like
adders' tails. They point to the knife, and they
make signs to me to cut my throat. I can
see the blood spirting out. Oh, it is horrible !
horrible ! Why do you let them torment me ?
I am safe with you. Why don't you stay and
take care of me ? Oh, my life, stay with me !
I did not mean to knock you down. You bring
me here, and then you disappear. "Why don't
you like this place ? It is very pretty, and
the grass is green. It will be red some day
when I take the knife. Oh Lord, she is
gone ! There's a man standing there now !
You — , what are you doing here ? I know
you — you're Wollaston, my father's bailiff.
You're running away. Ha ! I'll give you a
chase."

The pilot leaped the railings, and passing
close by Lydyiard, of whom he took no notice,
darted up the low sandbank, and down to the
shore, divesting himself as he ran, of each article
of clothing, till he stood naked in the moonlight ;
and then, with a wild toss of his arms and a
mad shout, he plunged into the waves and swam
out to sea.

Horrified at the scene he had witnessed, Mr.
Lydyiard turned to leave the spot. Pausing
for a moment at the enclosure, he stooped over
the railings, and gathered a rose, which he
placed in his breast. It was an act of sentimentalism
for which he could hardly account.
He climbed the hill facing the sea, and found
himself upon a broad plateau overlooking the
ocean on both sides. The air was sweet and
balmy, and nature offered a more attractive bedchamber
than that he had quitted. Choosing
a couch of dry grass and stunted herbage, he
lay down, and lulled by the murmur of the
waves, was soon asleep.

He was awakened by the ground vibration
caused by the rapid thud of horses' hoofs, and
the words uttered in a loud spluttering voice,
I say, my man, take care that you are not
ridden over. It's unsafe to lie down straight
in the track. Ef I hadn't been looking at the

road, my horse might have shied with me and
pitched me. And a buster ain't pleasant for a
man of my weight."

Lydyiard rose confusedly, and discovered that
while his head had been pillowed upon a furze-bush,
his legs had encumbered a narrow bridle
path which led from the pilot station to the
bush. There seemed a great deal of truth in the
rider's remark, for he was undoubtedly a large
man — sixteen stone or more — and his absent
blue eyes and uncertain mode of speech corroborated
the suggestion conveyed in his words,
that he did not always look where he was
going. He was dressed in a Crimean shirt
and riding breeches, and was mounted upon a
great shambling brute, which had the solitary
merit of looking up to weight. He carried
a stock whip, and was followed by a tribe of
kangaroo dogs, while he led another animal,
saddled for a lady, and which also bore two
canvas bags, that were ingeniously strapped onto
the pommels of the side saddle, and were
filled with pieces of raw meat.

*' I beg your pardon," said Mr. Lydyiard. " I
walked up here during the night, and did not
notice where I lay down."

During the night 1 " repeated the squatter.
Now that's a curious thing ! Haven't you got

any blankets ? Couldn't they put you up at
the pilot station *? "

** They offered me a bed," said Lydyiard ; " but
I slept in the open air by choice'

Now that's a thing I shouldn't do too often
ef I were you. Young fellers may lie on the
ground without its hurting them, but when
you come to our age, it means lumbago. How
is Hagartt ? But I don't suppose there is any
use in my asking, for of course he is drunk.
There's a man now that's always drunk. It beats
me where he gets the grog, for I have warned
the storekeepers at Frazerville. Now that's a
thing 1 Ef they would only put a heavy duty
on spirits, and take it off colonial wine, fellows
like Hagartt couldn't afford to make beasts of
themselves. Did you say he was drunk ? "

'' I saw him last dancing naked upon the
beach''

*' It's a disgrace," said the squatter. "I am
glad that I came over to-day. I had to bring
some meat for the men, and I thought that I
would take Hagartt's daughter back with me.
Now that's a dreadful thing you know ! We told
her that she might come and live with us provided
that she made herself useful — I never keep
any one on my station who does not earn his
grub — but she refused to leave her father."

"May I ask," said Lydyiard, "wtietlier I
have the pleasure of speaking to Mr. Overstocked
of Bully Wallah ? "

'' You have my very name, sir — Over stone of
Bully Wallah, that's it. Perhaps you have heard
it in connection with the salt question ? "

The salt question ! " repeated Lydyiard,
wondering] y.

"The duty, you know; I have made the
legislature take off the intercolonial duty. It'll
be the salvation of the country. Now I can tell
you, there's not a man in Australia, who knows
more about salt than I do."

Indeed ! " replied Lydyiard, slightly puzzled.
It's a very useful article of diet."

It's more than that. It's the salvation of
man and beast in Australia. I have proved it
in the House, sir ; and as for practical demonstration,
you won't see healthier cattle or
children than mine on this side of the equator.
It's all salt. Are you a cattle-owner ? "

No," replied Lydyiard, " I regret that I
am not."

Perhaps you're wanting to free select," said
Mr. Overstone, eyeing him with that suspicion
which is usually engendered in the mind of a
squatter by the advent of a stranger, whose
motives do not appear to lie on the surface.

May I ask your business here ? You did
not cross the Narrows, did you ? "

I came by steamer from Sydney, and landed
yesterday at the Cape."

I said to my man, as we were mustering the
Wattle Tree camp, that a steamer was letting off
smoke by the pilot station ; and it was to drop
you, I suppose ? "

Lydyiard took a pocket-book from his waistcoat
pocket, and producing therefrom an official
looking document addressed in a clerkly hand
to himself, handed it to Mr. Overstone.

That is my name ; and if you will kindly
read this letter, it will explain my business."

Mr. Overstone read the letter carefully, evidently
taking in its gist but slowly. " I see,"
he said, after a few moments of rumination.
This is from Cleaver — Secretary of Lands —
you know. Fm well acquainted with Cleaver ;
he seconded my motion on salt. I did not
expect that Cleaver would do me such a bad
turn as to send a free selector on to my run.
I see that this authorises you to inspect Bishop
Meddlicott's selection. I have nothing to do with
that land ; it belongs to the Government ; but ef
you intend to stock it, I must just inform you
that the right of crossing the Narrows belongs
to me. Now you see that sou can't swim your

cattle across Frazer Bay — and the land is
useless."

"You have an antipathy to free selectors,
IVlr. Overstone ? "

I shouldn't dislike 'em if they behaved fair,
and kept 'themselves to agriculture. Now that's
a thing, sir, that requires developing. The
farmers in this colony, they don't work their
land properly, and so it does not pay, and they
end by stealing their neighbours' cattle. I don't
mean anything personal."

I hope that my colonists, if they come here,
will be fairly honest, Mr. Overstone."

Or," continued Mr. Overstone, " ef they don't
steal, they bring pleura or the scab. I had a
sheep station before I came here, and I felt it,
sir — the scab I mean — in my pocket. That
ain't agriculture, which is a subject I have
studied."

Do you happen among other things to have
turned your attention to emigration ? "

'' I can't say that I'm fond of the subject ;
but that's a thing that ought to be looked to.
They send the scum of Great Britain out here,
and I don't see that that class of Britishers does
any good to Australia beyond increasing her
population. My father was an American, and
wee are a go-ahead set of people."

You are right," said Lydyiard ; " Australia
would be the better, if emigration were confined
to a higher class of settlers. I speak from no
practical experience, Mr. Overstone, and should
be glad of any hints you can give me. I ought
to explain that I am not personally interested
in the taking up of land. I am here on behalf
of ten or twelve superior labouring men. Men
with energy, and aims — at present misdirected.
They want a field which is not to be found in
England, and at my suggestion, talk of forming
themselves into a community and settling in
Australia. They are men a grade above the
ordinary working class, with ideas beyond their
station, and talents that have been diverted by
circumstance into unhealthy channels. They
would go in for agriculture, and I am here to
select land suitable for their purposes. As far
as I can see, this colony seems to have excellent
capabilities."

'' Enormous," said Mr. Overstone, with conviction.
'' The land will grow anything, but it
must be treated fairly. Irrigation ! Now that's
a thing for a practical man to look into ! What
salt is to the cattle-owner, irrigation is to the
agriculturist, — but these dolts won't see it."

I have no doubt that you are right, Mr.
Overstone."

''I have proved it, sir. You'll come home
with me and read my pamphlets — they'd be of
enormous value to you in the carrying out of your
scheme. On the whole I am inclined to like it.
I warm at anything go-ahead. Tm a go-ahead
man myself. It's a pity there ain't more such.
A superior class of emigrants, that's what we
want ; but no combination of cattle and agriculture.
Now that's a point upon which I am very
strong, it's one of my principles ; and ef we talk
alike I'll not say a word against your colony."
Mr. Overstone considered the matter for a minute
or two, nodding his head at intervals, as though
mentally ticking off the various bearings. " Hum,
hum, yes. There'd be a market for stock that
couldn't travel, and a halfpenny a pound in for
carriage, and cultivation ! Now that's a thing
that would answer. I should be saved the deuce
of a bother with my corn paddock. A contract
might be managed. We'll talk it over, Mr.
Lydyiard. I like to know what I'm doing ; and
I have got views — views that might be useful.
Of course you have brought no horses with you.
Well, you had better come back to Bully Wallah
with me. You won't find the pilot station
comfortable quarters. You shall read my pamphlets,
and we'll talk this matter out. I am busy
mustering just now, and all the horses and hands

are hard at work ; but as soon as that is done
with, you shall ride to the selection and look it
over at your own time. All fair and aboveboard,
Mr. Lydyiard. I can see that you area
gentleman."

Lydyiard bowed in acknowledgment of Mr.
Overstone's discernment. " I am much obliged
for your offer, and accept it with gratitude ; but

I am not alone. Lieutenant Brand, of the

Eel;. is travelling with me."

** Let him come too. We can put him up at
Bully Wallah, and I daresay that I can manage
two mounts to the station. I brought this horse
for Esther Hagartt. Perhaps you will be good
enough to lead him to the hut, while I ride back
to the camp where my men are drafting, to fetch
two spare animals ? "

Mr. Overstone threw the bridle of the horse
he was leading, to Lydyiard, and, followed by his
dogs, galloped off in the direction whence he had
come, with more alacrity than might have been
expected from so fat and viewy a person.

A RIDE THROUGH THE BUSH.

An instinct of coquetry, the first she had
known in her life, caused Esther to put on her
best frock upon the morning after the arrival of
the strangers. It was only of white cotton, but
it was simple and pure, and was singularly unlike
the Sunday garb of most girls in her position
in life. She looked to Brand, as, fresh from his
morning's swim, he joined her in the verandah,
like a lily which has just lifted its head after
a storm. He held out his hand to her with an
air of tender regard.

How are you this morning ? I felt so unhappy
about you last night. Jt was dreadful to
think of you alone and suffering. I even listened
at your door to hear if you were crying. Should
you have been very angry with me, if you had
known that I was there ? "

Esther looked at him gratefully, but knew not
how to reply.

"I see that your forehead is a little marked,"
continued Brand, noticing a blue spot just below
the parting of her hair, " but it is not as bad
as I feared it might be. Poor little bruise ! " and
he passed his fingers over the place with a touch
that felt like a caress. " I have brought you
a flower, Esther, to show you that I remembered
our compact of friendship yesterday. It is all
that I could find, and I am afraid that you will
hardly think it worth offering ; but you'll wear
it, wont you — just to please me? " It was a sprig
of the sweet-scented native jasmine, which grows
in stunted bushes upon the barren hills by the
sea-side. Esther could not help blushing as she
placed the blossom in her breast ; though she
would have found it difficult to explain why.
Hitherto, her dreamy eyes had looked into her
own heart, and out upon the faces of those
around her, without suspicion of hidden motives
or inner complex machinery. She had never had
to do with abstract, indefinite emotion, in herself
or in others ; but here was a dawning consciousness
that was new to her She had been

dreaming about George Brand during the night,
associating the tender pity in his looks and words
with the angelic sweetness of her mother's face.

as she saw it in her daily and nightly visions, till
one seemed an emanation from the other. She
felt that she had found a friend unlike such other
friends as the Overstones and Joe Bride — people
who had tried to brighten her lot in a rough,
kind-hearted way ; and yet she was shy of her
new friend, and thought of him in a manner that
was half awesome, half delightful.

I have lost Lydyiard," said Brand. " He
disappeared in the night, and now I fancy that
I see him on the cliff yonder. I am a little shortsighted
; but perhaps you can tell me who the
man on horseback is to whom he is talking ? "

It is Mr. Overdone' exclaimed Esther, with
an accent of pleasure. She had been mentally
shrinking, poor child ! from the exhibition which
her father in one of his fits, would make before
the strangers ; but Mr. Overstone's presence
promised stay and relief

Brand's countenance fell; for he realised, as she
failed to do, that Mr. Overstone's advent implied
the extinction of that nascent interest which
Esther had awakened in his heart. " It is a great
bore," he muttered ; '' and now Lydyiard will
expect me to go away with him."

Esther turned indoors to complete her preparations
for breakfast. George watched his friend,
as, after parting with Mr. Overstone, he led the

saddle-horse towards the pilot station. Presently
Mr. Overstone reappeared with the two nags, from
which a pair of black boys had been dismounted,
and the proposed arrangements Tvere explained
to Brand, who, when he heard that Esther was
to be of the party, joyfully acquiesced in the
plan.

Mr. Overstone unhesitatingly accepted Esther's
proffer of a cup of tea. It was his favourite
beverage, and he contrived to make a tolerable
breakfast of kippered herrings, exhibited in their
tin, at which Brand's more fastidious stomach
revolted.

No mention was made of Hagartt ; by tacit
consent his name seemed a subject to avoid.
Mr. Overstone was not an observant man, but
his attention was keenly alive to anything which
bore upon his particular hobbies, and blemishes
upon the skin being in his philosophy of cause
and effect solely referable to an absence of salt
in the system, his wandering blue eyes did not
fail to remark the red and blue bruise upon
Esther's brow. " Lord, child ! " he exclaimed,
*you are getting an eruption. What is that
mark upon your forehead ? "

Esther cast an expressive glance at Brand, but
made no reply.

Now that's the way with tells," sputtered

VOL. I. o

Mr. Overstone ; " they don't mind what their
elders say to them. I have always told you,
Esther, that what makes you so weedy is the
not taking salt enough with your food. You
never see my wife or children with pimples
upon their bodies. When did you first notice
that?"

It's not a spot, Mr. Overstone," faltered
Esther ; " at least, not a pimple. I knocked
myself — that is — I was thrown against the
door."

Your father did it, I suppose, when he was
drunk," said mr. Overstone, with a blunt appreciation
of facts. "Well, I'm glad that I
brought Cavalier saddled for you. It was the
mistress's idea. She said that you had not
been over for some time. Old black Poll has
taken to the bush again — it's always the way
with those gins ; you can't civilise 'em — and
the children are more than Mrs. Overstone can
manage comfortably, with the jam-making, and
one thing and another. You had best ride back
with me, Esther. I'm all for tells doing their
duty, myself, but no one can expect them to
stop with fathers who get drunk, and bang
their heads about — so put up your swag, and
the pack bags can stop here till one of the
black boys can fetch them."

Good morning, Muster Overstone," said
Bride, stepping on to the verandah ; "we shall
be glad of the meat you've brought. I'm precious
sick of goats' flesh myself, though it's a sight
nicer than the measly pork I've had to stomach
in my time. There's a deal in use. Have you
brought Cavalier over for Miss Esther, sir ? "

"The horse is there for her," said Mr.
Overstone, " if she likes to come back with
me.

** We've run out of grog," said Joe significantly,
" and Esther's head was knocked agen
the lock of the door last night. She had better go
with you, Muster Overstone, and I'll let her know
when to come back. Have you seen Hagartt this
morning, sir? He is mooning somewhere about
the beach."

No," replied Mr. Overstone ; " I rode over
straight from the Wattle-tree camp. Now, Esther,
look sharp over your swag, for I must be at the
yards before the mob of cattle I have drafted,
get there."

I'll send the old woman to wash up for you,
Esther," said Joe, "and you'll have no call to
trouble about your father ; he won't want much
cooking for, when the drink is upon him, and a
little extra work will be good for Nancy. She's
getting dropsical for lack of running about. It's

G 2

the way with women — of a sort — when they're
idle'

Brand seized the opportunity, when Mr. Over-stone
was expatiating to Lydyiard upon the
excellence of his method of curing beef, to
whisper in Esther's ear, " Ah ! that is right :
you'll come, won't you ? It will be such a relief
such a happiness to me."

Esther went into her room to make her simple

preparations for the visit. In less than an hour

they were all ready to start, their valises strapped

on to their saddles, and Joe Bride receiving final

directions about the portmanteaux, while Nancy

made an ostentatious parade of her good nature,

by clattering about among the breakfast things.

Mr. Overstone paused with his foot in the stirrup

to remark, "Now there's a thing I had almost

forgotten. Ef you want to send news anywhere,

gentlemen, you had better telegraph while weare

here. Now there's Cleaver, Mr. Lydyiard !

Suppose you were to let him know that I was

taking you to Bully Wallah — it might settle his

mind. Cleaver knows my principles, and he is

strong on irrigation."

'' Thank you," replied Mr. Lydyiard ; " but I
think that it is hardly necessary at present. I had
better defer communicating with Mr. Cleaver, till
1 have seen the land and digested the pamphlets."

It is a capital idea' exclaimed Brand, who
had the weakness of self-importance in desiring
to flash intelligence of his movements to all
those whom they might concern. " I'll just let
Regard know where I'm to be found. Can anyone
give me a telegraph-form ? "

Here, sir' said Esther ; and entering the
operating-room, she transmitted, after Brand had
written it, the following message : " From George
Brand, Pilot Station, Mundoolan Island. To
Colonel Regard, Barracks, Sydney. Address as
above. If necessary, please wire."

The party mounted and rode off, Mr. Lydyiard
accompanying his host in advance, George and
Esther following behind. It was nearly midday
by the time they had started, and the heat was
extreme. Leaving the cape behind, and gradually
losing sight of the sea as the promontory widened,
they rode towards the centre of the island.
Brand, a capital horseman, was in high spirits,
and though there was much to be desired in the
matter of his mount, he found a keen pleasure in
jumping the logs and small gullies that lay near
his path, then would wheel round, with a smile
of triumph upon his handsome face, and meet
complacently Esther's shy admiring eyes ; he was
always disposed to be on the best of terms with
himself and his performances. Esther was very

happy, and in spite of the misery she had left behind,
and a characteristic tendency to depression,
experienced that exaltation of spirit and crisp
pleasure in the mere consciousness of living, that
is so natural to the young. She had often ridden
along the same path, but it had always been in
the wake of Mr. Overstone, who had lumbered
on ahead, only turning to point out a remarkable
beast, or to comment upon the consumption of
rock salt on the camps — subjects which had totally
failed to arouse the girl's interest. Now she had
companionship of the opposite sex, of an age
near her own — and that, granted that it be of
a congenial nature, is the greatest happiness that
can befall us human creatures. If we look back
upon a landscape which is connected in our minds
with an ebullition of pleasurable emotion, we
shall find that there is always a central figure
animating the scene, and that we have not viewed
it entirely through the medium of individual
consciousness ; for I doubt if the finest panorama
in the world would dwell long in our memories,
if it had been gazed upon alone.

Upon this occasion there was nothing particularly
inspiring in nature ; only the warm
buzzing of myriads of insects in the air around,
the winging of butterflies, and scent of wattle
blossom, the crackling of dry twigs beneath the

horses' feet, and the vast solitude of forest aisles,
on the ground of which there danced a mosaic
pattern of shadow and brightness, as the sun cast
broken rays through the bower of quivering
leaves overhead. Occasionally they came upon
a group of cattle lazily feeding among the brown
straight trunks of the gum-trees, or a herd of
kangaroo looking towards the intruders with
fawn-like startled eyes, and graceful movements
of alarm, ere they scampered through the trees,
followed by the dogs in full cry. Now a scaly
iguana would scuttle up a neighbouring tree-trunk,
making a rustling in the tall lady grass,
or a tawny native dog would slink into the
shadow of a belt of scrub — and this for miles and
miles, unvaried by the sight of a human habitation
or mark of civilisation.

'' How strange it seems, Esther," said Brand, as
they rode side by side through the leafy alleys,
to think of your growing up in this wild
place among a set of rough sailors, without any
society, or schooling, or that sort of thing which
comes naturally to other girls. I thought a]i
young women had to go through a course of drilling
before they could even hold up their heads,
or walk properly. People in England would stare
if they were told how you lived. Now I have a
cousin, who is, I should think, a little older than

you are. A regular jolly girl, and up to any
larks; — but Lord bless you! she has been to
Paris to learn French, and to Germany for
German, and she has had no end of governesses
and professors for music and drawing, and a
French lady's-maid to teach her how to dress."

Poor Esther blushed with an overwhelming
sense of her own deficiencies, but George's next
remark carried with it a little comfort. " But I
don't think that she is as pretty, and she is certainly
not as interesting as you, who have had
none of her advantages. I suppose that you
have never been to school, Esther ? "

'' No, sir ; " and Esther felt that he must hate
and despise her for her lack of feminine accomplishments.


Well," said George magnificently, " I don't
care about your awfully clever women. They
are great bores, I think, and I know lots of
fellows who are of the same opinion. One does
not want to be talked to by a woman about art,
and the sciences, and 'ologies. Not that my
cousin Lina goes in for that sort of thing. She
used to make tremendous fun of me when I was
cramming for my Army Exam. If I wanted a
wife, Esther, I should only care for her to be
sweet and sympathetic, and to look pretty, and
to be very fond of me."

But you would like her to be more than that'
said Esther, who, in spite of her childishness
and ignorance, had already been visited by certain
dim notions concerning the capabilities,
and possible vocation of womanhood. All the
princesses of her imagination had wistful yearnings
after a higher phase of existence than
that which they knew. She had once read a
child's version of the story of Undine, and had
thought it too beautiful not to be true. '* It
would be growing like a plant," continued Esther,
dreamily. " Plants are lovely too, but they
only want water, and earth, and sun. They
cannot move or think. That is not what I
should like to be. Oh, I think it is cruel not
to let girls be what they wish — not to teach
them, when they would give almost anything
to learn ! "

"You want to be educated," said Brand, looking
at her with an admiring wonder, " like other
women — like my cousin."

There is no use in wishing. How can I
learn ? I must always go on like this."

As George noticed the quickening sensibility
of her face, the dewy brightness of her moistened
eyes, he could not help thinking to himself, that
the heart of man could demand no more from
Esther than that she should always look thus.

Juan did not wish more from Haidee than that
she should be beautiful. '' I would not have you
altered," he said, with the quick sympathy which
he would have expressed towards a pretty child,
whom he saw crying for something which he
did not consider in itself particularly desirable.
But I am very sorry that you should not do

what you wish, and if I could help you Isn't

there any one who would teach you ? "

No," replied Esther, sadly. " My mother
taught me till she died : but I don't think that
she cared very much for books, we never seemed
to have any. I am not quite ignorant, but the
little I have learned makes me long to know
more ; and 1 have read all the books at home
and at Bully Wallah."

*' If I were to get you some more," exclaimed
Brand eagerly, " would that please you?" Then,
answered by her gleam of childish joy, " I will
do that ; I am sure that there must be a way.
It is always so easy to get books. You'd like
novels and poetry — girls always do. There are
some novels I like, but they're not womanish
ones, and — I don't know whether they'd quite
do for you, you wouldn't understand some things
in them ; but I think I am fond of poetry, good
swinging rhymes that make a fellow want to
fight — or to ride — or do something. I'll tell you

what would be our best plan. Mr. Lydyiard is
so clever that he would be sure to know what
would be best for you to read — we'll get him to
make out a list, and we'll send it to Frazer-ville
if Mr. Overstone will tell us how."

Mr. Lydyiard looks as though he had so
much to think about," said Esther doubtfully.
He might not like to be troubled."

''Oh, he would not mind ; he is a very good-natured
fellow. Tell me some of the books you
like."

I like all kinds," said Esther, brightening into
enthusiasm, " except Mr. Overstone's pamphlets,
and books about cattle ; but there are some
nice ones at Bully Wallah — stories, and history ;
Ivanhoe, and The Abbot. Do you know The
Abbot ? Queen Mary is in it, and Douglas. Oh,
it was wicked to treat her so ! And then there
are some child's books and fairy stories — only,
I daresay it is very foolish, but I never can be
quite sure which are true ; and Sir Walter Scott's
poems. I read Marmion the last time I was
with Mrs. Overstone."

That's not bad," said Brand, pleased to exhibit
his acquaintance with literature, which in truth
was far from extensive ; and he began quoting,
winding up with a tender glance of admiration
at Esther.

*' ' Nought say I here of sister Clare,

Save this, that she was young and fair,
As yet a novice professed ;
Lovely and gentle, but distressed'"

'' Yes' cried Esther, excitedly taking up the
words ; and then the two capped verses for a few
moments, like a pair of romantic school children ;
and Esther — truly experiences were crowding
upon her — fancied that she was tasting the joy
of intellectual companionship, which is, to some
women's minds, the highest kind of happiness.

"I think," she began with shy confidence, her
timidity diminishing before the flow of thoughts
which, now that she had found a sympathetic
listener, she was longing to utter. '' I think that
I should like to make stories. It would be so
delightful to live in other people's lives, if they
were real, it would be so much the more interesting,
and if not, one could fancy they might all
be true. I was so sorry when I began to grow
old, and Joe Bride scolded me for caring about
dolls. They all got broken, and no one would
buy me any more, and since that time I have
had nothing but the sea-shore, and the saw.

"

pit

She stopped short, seeing the shadow of a smile
upon her companion's face. Perhaps even he did
not understand.

'' Go on," said Brand, who was really amused ;
I like to hear you. Tell me about the saw-pit."


^' It is a pit ever so old. I think it was used
by the carpenters who built the huts at the pilot
station before we came to it. It is full of soft
saw-dust, and there are great logs placed across
it, so that one can walk backwards and forwards ;
and there are wattle trees, and creepers and
ferns, growing round it. It is a perfect place
to build houses, and the people who live in
them are blue-bells turned upside down, and
the little pink sprouts from the ends of the
tea-tree boughs."

But what sort of people are they ? " asked
Brand, bewildered yet interested.

'people who had stories of their own, and
they went on and on and on, and every day it
was different. No one ever went there but me,
for mother could not walk so far ; and when I
told her about the saw-pit, she grew sad, and
said that a dream-world was a bad place for a
woman to live in. And then she died, and a
storm swept everything away. And now I don't
often go there, for father might be angry if I
was away and he wanted me."

"Esther," asked Brand, "does your father
often beat you ? "

'' Not always, sir ; only when he is drunk."

But is he ever sober ? " asked Brand.

'* Sometimes," replied Esther. " Sometimes he
does not touch spirits for a week at a time — but,"
she added, with an effort at repression, '' mother
used to tell me not to talk to strangers about my
father."

"But I am not a stranger," said George, persuasively
; " we decided yesterday that we would
be friends, and friends tell each other everything,
and I know that he struck you the other night.
It is horrible to think of. Are you never afraid,
Esther, that he will harm you seriously ? "

''I used to be afraid, sir. Once I ran away.
It was then that I saw my mother — the only
time since she died ; I sometimes think that
perhaps I dreamed it. After that I did not
mind so much."

But what had that to do with it ? " asked
Brand, " and where did you run ? "

Into the bush. I thought that he would kill
me perhaps, and I was so frightened that I forgot
that my mother had told me never to go away
from him. I ran on till I came to the scrub.
I felt sure that he would never find me there."

Was it this scrub ? " asked Brand, pointing
to a dark wooded belt beside which they were
riding.

We must be near Bully Wallah now, sir. I
daresay it is ; Mr. Overstone says it runs almost
the whole length of the island, and the cattle
sometimes get strangled by the creepers. I remembered
all that he had said when I was there,
and I recollected too about the boa constrictors in
the jungle ; I have found out since that there are
none in Australia. Oh, it is a horrible place to
be lost in."

What is it like, Esther ? "

It is so dark that one cannot see the sky
through the leaves. The branches are twisted,
and the creepers twine round them, and hang like
long snakes. As dusk comes on, the dead trunks
seem to be skeletons, and the bottle trees are like
women in white dresses. When it was night I
lay down upon a bank and tried to sleep, but
there Tvere curious noises all round me. Curlews
were screeching, and creeping things seemed to
be crawling on every side of me, and the native
dogs howled till I thought they must want to eat
me. I don't think that I ever felt so frightened
in my life ; and then my mother came and stood
beside me. That is why I think that the dead
may come back, but it was only that one time.
I have heard her, but I have never seen her
since."

You were delirious, child ! "

Esther shook her head.

'* Well, what happened then 1 "

In the morning, Mr. Overstone, who was
looking for some stray cattle, found me and took
me to Bully Wallah."

Here they paused at a sliprail. Dismounting

heavily, Mr. Overstone let it down for the rest

to pass through, and then cracked his stock-whip,

making' it echo through the forest with a reveres
o

beating noise, after which he uttered two shrill,
prolonged coo-sees."

That is. to let the missus know that I'm
coming — two coo-sees means that there's somebody
with me. We don't often have visitors, and we
never expect 'em except when the Narrows are
crossable, and that's only twice in the month.
My missus is generally prepared, but two coo-sees
means that there'll be something extra wanted
to eat, and it prevents 'em keeping a hungry
stomach waiting. Now, Mr. Lydyiard, ef you
have never seen a cattle station before, I am
pleased and proud to say that I can show you
a j&rst-rate specimen. You won't find many
places to beat Bully Wallah up north. I don't say
anything about the Darling Downs. Squatters
there can afford to have gates instead of sliprails,
but I'll bet my best hat, that even there you
won't find a manager like my old woman. Now

that's a thing' continued Mr. Overstone in his
ruminative way, as they trotted noiselessly over
a swampy piece of ground, " that's a thing that
settlers don't consider as they ought. Bone
and muscle and common sense — these are the
points to be looked out for in a wife. It's like
expecting land to yield good crops without
irrigation, or cattle, or human beings to be
healthy without salt, when a man thinks to find
his home made comfortable by a weedy, sickly
creature, that hasn't a thought except for novels
and falls."

Esther and George glanced at each other.

A good, hard-working, managing wife. Now
that's a blessing to thank Providence for, when
you've got it."

The enunciation of this pious sentiment
brought the riders within sight of the cattle
station.

Wot. T.

SOUL CANNOT MARCH TO THE BLEATING OF SHEEP
OR LOWING OF CATTLE."

Bully Wallah head station, was, as Mr.
Overstone had proudly affirmed, a very good
specimen of its kind. There are stations in
Australia, which, for beauty and commodiousness,.
might rival many English country houses ; but
these are few and far between, and belong for
the most part to wealthy sheep-owners, who have
been educated in Europe to the amenities of
civilisation. As a rule, house-building and housekeeping
are conducted upon a rough-and-ready
fashion ; utility considered before the picturesque
and abundance without regard to quality. It is
surprising that with so many natural advantages,
so bald a result should be produced. What, for
instance, could be more easy of accomplishment
than a prettily laid out garden, in a climate
where there is a nominal winter, and where

vegetation flourishes with an almost tropical
luxuriance ? But, while there are spare hands
nearly always loafing about a station, and a little
trouble in watering is almost all that is necessary,
vegetables and flowers usually grow promiscuously,
and a rectangular enclosure laid out in unshaded
patches, is generally the only attempt
at ornamental landscape.

So within doors ; a pretty wall-paper, a flowered
cottage chintz, a few well-chosen engravings,
a little crewel work and abundance of books
and periodicals, and a dainty arrangement of
brackets and gipsy tables, would require buta
small outlay aud some exercise of taste ; butin
most cases the drawing-room is a still',
barely furnished, unrefined apartment ; and the
verandah, encumbered with saddlery, and haunted
by dogs, is the living-room of the family.

The Overstones' house was a low bungalow-like
eight-roomed cottage, With slab walls — whose
gaping apertures happily were not of consequence
in a climate where the thermometer rarely ranges
below 60° — and surrounded by a ten-foot verandah,
the posts of which were twined with creeping
jasmine, bougainvillea and stephanotis. The
sunny side of the house was entirely screened
by a leafy grape-vine, which threw quivering
shadows upon the boards, and was hung with

H 2

purpling fruit. Two little children were playing
about the log steps leading into the garden, and
a number of dogs, who had been lying in the
shade, rose and stretched themselves at the sound
of their master's voice, all on the alert for his
appearance. In front of the house a pretty
garden, well stocked with fruit-trees, was laid
out in long vine-trellised walks ; upon one side
was a clump of orange-trees, upon the other a
small plantation of bananas. In front of the
verandah, two bamboos made a perpetual rustling
of their reed-like stems and spiky leaves ; and
above all was a clear blue sky just flecked with
grey clouds, and in the distance of the mainland, a
line of shadow-covered hills. The entrance behind
for aU Australian bush houses are approached
in the rear — led into a yard, crossed by a long
covered passage, which communicated with the
detached kitchen. The dwelling was surrounded
by outbuildings, bark roofed and of questionable
perpendicularity. Against the doorpost of one
of these huts a black gin, clad in a tattered
go^;\Ti, and with a red handkerchief bound round
her woolly locks, squatted over the shredding of
a basin of peas, while two naked picaninnies
fought for the possession of their mother's pipe,
which, in obedience to Mrs. Overstone's orders,
had for the time been laid aside. She looked

Up and uttered a prolonged " yah " as her master
and his friends rode into the yard.

Come, my gell," said Mr. Overstone to Esther.
*' The missus is in the front, I expect. This way,
gentlemen."

Preceding his guests, he marched through the
sitting-room, an apartment scrupulously neat —
for Mrs. Overstone prided herself upon the whiteness
of her boards and the purity of her holland
covers and antimacassars — into the verandah,
where the mistress of the house, surrounded by
her children, was bending at work over her
sewing-machine.

Well, Gritty," said Mr. Overstone, when he
had kissed her with a hearty smack, and had
performed the necessary introductions ; " and
how has everything been going on while I have
been away ? "

Mrs. Overstone ran her thumb down the seam
she had been stitching, before replying. She
never sputtered, or talked in an interjectional
manner like her husband, but was always stolidly
composed ; speaking, when she did speak, in an
even, guttural tone, with more than usual of the
colonial drawl.

The strawberry cow has calved, Andrew ;
and there were twenty young heifers branded
yesterday ; I was careful to put the numbers down.

You'll find the paper on the office-table. There
was a nice shower the night before last, which has
brought on the cultivation paddock beautifully."

Now that's a thing — " began Mr. Overstone,
I'll explain it by and by, Gritty. It's to be
done away with ef the settlers come ; except — "
he added, " that it's an example for irrigation."

'^ It would be a pity to do away with the cultivation
paddock," said Mrs. Overstone, placidly.
'* Pumpkins grow so nicely in the maize, and
you're so fond of pumpkin pie, Andrew, especially
when it has a little lemon in it. Smuggler, the
black boy, must have brought some grog from
Frazerville when he fetched the mail, for both
he and black Sally were drunk yesterday. I was
obliged to lock them up in the meat-store."

Spirits ! " cried Mr. Overstone. " Now I'll
give it to Smuggler for that. Now that's one
of my principles, Mr. Lydyiard ! I don't allow
grog among my hands — never drink it myself —
but I always have a glass of good whisky for my
friends. When you want it, you'll find it in the
left hand corner of the cellaret. Don't wait to
be asked, Mr. Brand ; but it's a bad thing — a
very bad thing for young men. I'll go and talk
to Smuggler, Gritty. You see, Mr. Lydyiard,
I'm obliged to keep order on my station — order,
you know, a place is nothing without order — the

log written up every day — the numbers of the
stock always put down — and the books kept by
double entry. Gritty, you'll see that the bachelor's
room is ready for these gentlemen."

I am never taken unawares, Andrew," said
Mrs. Overstone, sublimely. " The beds are made,
and there's water and towels all ready. You'll
find the whisky and cold tea on the sideboard,
and a tongue and a tart in the diningroom.
It's a grape tart," she added, applying
herself again to the sewing machine, just pausing
to say, " You'll sleep in the nursery, Esther ; and
you had better go and get your lunch now"

Rod, the little boy, looked up from his toys.
Bessie is a naughty girl — she tipped her tea
over this morning. Is that Hullabaloo come
to take her to his den 1 "

He pointed to Lydyiard, who smiled at the
child. " You don't look so cross now," said Eod.
'' I thought you must be Hullabaloo, because you
are so ugly — giants and wicked men are always
ugly. The other chap is not ugly, I think he's
Esther's sweetheart. I'm glad you're come, Esther.
I have got a new book from Frazerville. Mother
says you are to read it to me, and you are to
put Bessie in her bath, and nurse baby. He's a
very naughty baby — he cries. He'll have to have
some nasty medicine — I take medicine sometimes.

Do you like medicine ? I don't — but mother
says it makes me good."

Mrs. Overstone certainly deserved her lord's
praises, both in the matter of domestic management,
and as regarded her qualifications of bone
and muscle. Whatever mind she had, was
exercised for her husband's comfort, and he had
reason in boasting that there was no house in the
district so well cared for as his own. Mrs. Over-stone
was great in the making of cakes and curing
of hams. She concocted lemonade in the summer,
and sugar-beer in winter, which were delectable
to the thirsty palate ; and her jams and marmalade
were beyond praise. She also made her husband's
shirts, and could even leather his breeches;
and her own clothes, and those of her children,
were fashioned by her industrious fingers. It
was wonderful how she found time for these
multifarious duties ; for to her other acquirements,
must be added an intimate knowledge
of every horse that was employed upon the run,
and of each herd of the Bully Wallah cattle. She
was an excellent dairy woman, had always fresh
butter, and provided the luxury of clotted cream.
Her hot scones melted in one's mouth, and her
poultry were always in laying order. It will
therefore be readily seen that Brand was likely
to be in clover, both as regarded his creature

comforts, and those more subtle delights which
it was in Esther's power to furnish.

In person Mrs. Overstone was tall and comely,
with large bones well covered with firm ruddy
flesh. She always wore print gowns in summer,
and lines in winter — made barely to touch the
ground ; except on Sundays, when, after superintending
the cooking of an unusually sumptuous
dinner, she put on a trained black silk dress,
with a collar of Nottingham lace, and a crimson
necktie fastened with a large brooch containing
a miniature of her husband.

There were three children : Eoderick, Bessie,
and the baby, who were handed over into
Estherss keeping, with the intimation that she
was expected to wash and feed them, and
generally to preside over their play. Esther
was not fond of children — few imaginative girls
are. Little Bessie was mischievous, and the
baby was fractious, but Eod was a quiet boy,
who liked having stories read to him — and this
was a very congenial occupation to Esther.

It was dry delicious weather, and there were
always cool breezes blowing up from the sea,
which tempered the usually oppressive heat of
that time of the year. The children liked being
out of doors, and to Esther, accustomed to the
sterility of the pilot station, it was very pleasant

to sit beneath the vines, with their hanging
clusters of purple and green, with the scent
of roses and verbena in the air round her,
and the soft murmur of the dry leaves of the
bamboos, as the stems swayed to and fro in
the breeze. She would take the three little
ones out of a morning, to a shady place under
the clump of orange-trees of which the children
were particularly fond ; and there she would
sit, the baby upon her knees lulled to sleep by
the sound of birds and insects, while Rod and
Bessie played among the flowers. There was a
hammock slung between the trees, and in it
Brand had a fancy for swinging himself, a cigar
in his mouth, while he talked idly to Esther and
the children. His conversation was principally
about himself, but with this tendency Esther
was not disposed to find fault ; for she was quite
ready to endorse his half expressed opinion, that
no finer fellow existed upon the earth.

Esther was on the confines of Arcadia, though
she hardly realised the fact. There were delicious
thrills of enjoyment, and soft echoes of
poetry conveyed to her consciousness by the
breath of the wind, the scent of the flowers,
or something else, which she could not define
to herself. Nature had never seemed so lovely
before ; but nature had never before reached her

soul through the same medium. Life seemed
to be acquiring a fulness which it had always
hitherto lacked. The unlovely and prosaic
faded into dimness, and an atmosphere of
vague delicious enjoyment seemed to surround
her own immediate existence.

Mr. Overstone was at this time busy mustering
his cattle, and used to start forth with his men,
early in the morning, saluted by a tremendous
clatter of barking of dogs and cracking of stock-whips,
and did not return till late in the evening,
when he almost always fell asleep over his tea.
Lydyiard, anxious to see the country, and to
make acquaintance with all phases of Australian
life, rode with the party whenever a mount
could be without difficulty supplied him ; but
Brand, after one day's work in the yards,
returned disgusted to the house, and confided
to Esther that " this sort of thing " suited him
much better ; " this sort of thing " meaning the
hammock, a cigar, and admiring contemplation,
at close quarters, of Esther's face, with an occasional
interlude of eating of fruit. On the whole,
te liked his quarters immensely, and was by no
means anxious that Mr. Lydyiard should hasten
his inspection of Bishop Medlicott's selection.

Lydyiard was not at ail in good spirits. When
he was not out on the run with Mr. Overstone,

he spent this days writing in a little back office,
where the owner of Bully Wallah composed his
pamphlets, and kept his ledgers *' by double
entry ; " or wandered about the garden with a
book, excusing his taciturnity upon the plea
that his mind was greatly occupied. No one
saw anything strange in this mental absorption ;
for Brand had thoroughly impressed the Over-stone
household with the belief that they were
entertaining a great literary luminary. Lydyiard
rarely spoke to Esther, though he watched her
closely, but seemed fond of playing with little
Bessie, whom he would make his companion in
his perambulations of the garden, keeping her
quiet for hours. He looked so depressed and
solitary that Mr. Overstone's kind heart was
troubled, and he remarked to his Gritty in their
conjugal retirement : " It is a sad thing to
see a man of Mr. Lydyiard's age without a wife
or a child belonging to him. And a clever
fellow. Gritty, who is always pleased to learn
something; he didn't know before. He's worth
fifty Cleavers ; for though Cleaver has always
gone with me upon the salt question, I don't
hold with him on other points — not but what
every one has a right to his own opinion, whether
it's bad or good, but I like a man who is willing
to change it, when he sees that he's mistaken —

and who should have a sounder judgment upon
cattle-farming and agriculture than I, who have
proved all I say in the House ? "

Esther, you are looking a thousand times
brighter than when you came here first," said
Brand, one afternoon when they were sitting
under the orange-trees. " This place suits you
better than the pilot station. I like it uncommonly,
and the cooking isn't half bad. I
don't know that I was ever happier in my life.
Go and get me a match, youngster, will you ?
I call the bush life a very jolly one. Suppose
that I were to sell out of the army and turn
squatter ? "

*' But you don't like the work, sir, and I am
sure that it would not suit you," said Esther,
mentally recoiling from the picture which
imagination suggested, of Brand with his lithe
figure garbed in moleskins and a Crimean shirt,
coming up hot and grimy from the yards. ** No,
I am sure it would not suit you, sir."

Perhaps you are right. No, I shouldn't like
]branding and squaretailing — they would make
one's hands and clothes in such a beastly mess,
and the army fits me down to the ground in someways.
As for Australia, it isn't half a bad place,
and a long way from headquarters, which is
an advantage, when there's an old curmudgeon

like my uncle always bringing one to book. Still,
taking it all round, nothing beats an English life
for enjoyment. Should you like to go to England,
Esther ? "

** It must be a beautiful place," said Esther,
wistfully. To her ignorant mind, England was
a kind of earthly paradise, extremely difficult of
attainment — a view of the old country not unusual
with Australian youth. Id the colonies, to say that
a person is, or resembles an European, is to give
him or her, brevet rank as a superior mortal.

I should like to take you to England," said
Brand, reflecting on past delights, " and to show
you the sights of London — the Row in June —
the Opera on a command night — and Lord's — and
Buckingham — and

'' And the Tower, and Westminster Abbey,"
exclaimed Esther.

Oh, they're all bosh. No one goes there but
country cousins and cads ; but there are millions
of other things. There's the Academy, if you
like pictures — and the boat-race — and Ascot.
That's a grand sight."

'' What is Ascot ? " breathed Esther.

George laughed. '' It's a racecourse. Many's
the pony I have lost there. But for real sport, if
you are a crack shot, there's nothing to beat a
good pheasant battue."

What's that, sir 1 "

** A downright hot corner, with no end of birds
flying over your head. * Cock bird to you, sir
and bang 1 there it goes — such a row as you never
heard. There's hunting, too, but a fellow has to
ride uncommon good horses to hold his o^tl in
Leicestershire. And four-in-hand, I have never
had much chance of coaching — but I mean to crown
for it some day."

Esther," said Mrs. Overstone, appearing with
a large basin of fruit in her hands, " you are
doing nothing ; and I see that baby is asleep ; just
peel this dish of peaches for me, and mind you
don't throw any of the stones away, for they
flavour the jam awful well when they're cracked.
I'm hard at work over the kitchen fire."

'' Shall I help you ? " said Brand, picking out
the ripest peach and commencing operations by
eating it. " Mrs. Overstone's a capital cook, isn't
she ? She makes me very comfortable ; but if I
had a wife, I wouldn't allow her to stew over the
kitchen fire. This puts me in mind of Gravely,
and of the time when I was a youngster, and
the housekeeper used to let me pick strawberries
for preserve. I should like you to see Gravely,
Esther. It would be an awfully jolly place if
my uncle were not such an old miser, and kept
it up properly; however, it will be mine some day."

^Yill it, sir ? " asked Esther, indifferently, her
wide notions of landed property in Australia
causing her to be less easily impressed by the
dignity of ownership in England.

*' When my uncle is dead," continued Brand ;
that is, he may leave it away if he likes, for
I am only his nephew by marriage ; but he has
brought me up as his heir. I shall never be
Lord Coniston," added George, with a regretful
siofh, "that's the worst of it; but it is a fine
thing to be heir to a good property. I shall sell
out of the army, and keep a string of hunters,
and — marry, I suppose." Somehow the announcement
sent a pang to Esther's heart.

You are very slow," said George, presently ;
*' this is my third to your one. To be sure, I
have eaten them and you have peeled them."
And then bending forward from the hammock, he
fixed his handsome eyes upon Esther s face and
added, " Should you mind my going away — and
marrying — Esther ? "

I should be sorry," said Esther, too childish
to hesitate at the admission, but she blushed
as she made it. " I couldn't help being sorry,
though it would be silly ; for, of course, sir, you
must go away, and our lives will be separated."

*' Do you think so ? " asked Brand. "I should
be unhappy if I knew that would happen. I

could not bear to think that I was never going
to see you again, Esther, but somehow, I have a
feeling that our lives will not be divided. I
don't know why, but I am almost certain of it."

You will go away," murmured Esther, peeling
her peach very briskly.

*'I suppose that must be. My leave will be up,
you know. But " (more cheerfully) " I don't see
why I shouldn't come back again, unless we are
recalled ; there was a talk of our being sent home,
but we won't think of that. You won't forget
me, Esther ? "

Just then Mr. Lydyiard came towards them
carrying little Bessie in his arms. *^ Brand, Mr.
Overstone has sent me to tell you that one of the
black boys is going to Frazerville. If you have
any letters to write, you had better do so at
once."

No," said Brand, " I never write when I can
telegraph. It saves a world of bother, and useless
wording ; but, by Jove, I had almost forgotten!
Lydyiard, sit down, like a good fellow. Esther is
very fond of reading, and I want to get her some
books. Can you think of the names of any that
she would like, and I will write to a bookseller in
Frazerville for them. She likes stories best —
don't you, Esther ? "

Mr. Lydyiard sat down as he was bidden, and

VOL. I. I

looked gravely at Esther, who was shy of having
a favour asked on her behalf.

Are you fond of reading, Esther 1 "

*' I think I like it better than anything in the
world, sir," replied Esther, flushing with that quick
glow that made her face so sympathetic.

"And story books?" continued Lydyiard ; "life
is often a fairy story to the young, and to the old
it turns sometimes into a tragedy. You must not
give too free a rein to your imagination," he added,
in a quiet, sad voice. " I can see that you are inclined
to be romantic. It is a bad thing for a girl
to imagine that all men and women are like those
of whom she reads. When she grows older she is
apt to fret, and to fancy that she might have done
better with her life, and sometimes she tries to
take her fate into her own hands, and wakes up,
too late, to find that she has made a bitter
mistake. Disappointment is hard to endure."

I should like to read of people who have
lived," said Esther. "Perhaps one might learn
from them. It is better to know that things are
true. I haven't read very much, sir, and nothing
but story books, but some of them were about
real people."

Lydyiard wrote down the titles of several
biographies, male and female, and of a few
works which he thought suitable to her age and

understanding. " If you are anxious to learn, we
will talk over what you have read, and see how
you can best improve yourself. I will give you
some books, if you care to have them ; and in the
meantime Brand may send for these, since he
wishes to do so."

George went into the house nth the slip of
paper, and Lydyiard remained with Esther while
she peeled her peaches. " I think that your life
is a dull one for a girl," he said, '' there does not
seem to be much brightness in it from without.
You should be intelligent. Tt would be well if
you could cultivate your mind, as far as lies in
your power, and learn to find happiness in yourself
; but it must not be by reading novels and
poetry — they might do harm to an undisciplined
nature. Do you wish to improve yourself,
Esther ? "

Oh I if I could," said Esther, looking at him
with great, earnest eyes. " If mother had lived
she might have taught me ; she did teach me a
little, but I don't think she cared as I do. She
was always so sad, and often ailing. Oh, I feel —
I. feel" she cried, her eagerness overcoming her
shyness, " that I could be different. If it were
not for all the troubles — the brandy, the work,
and the things that keep one down. It is like
being outside a beautiful garden. There must be

1 2

something better and higher if one could only
reach it, if only some one cared for me, and
would teach me."

You feel the need of love already ! It is sad
for a woman when she begins to experience that
want. Better for her that she should not feel
it too keenly ! The longing for admiration is
more easily satisfied than the longing for love.
Try and repress it, Esther. I shall not be here
very long, but I will help you as far as I can.
And now I want to know something more of
your life than you have told me."

He asked her several questions about her
progress and general bent of mind, and in so
doing: led her on to talk of her mother. The
made an interesting picture as they sat so, she
with her heart in her eyes and the half-peeled
peach in her hands earnestly regarding him; while
he leaned forward, his hand shading his face, the
sleeping child resting upon his other arm. He
listened gravely, but scarcely made any comment,
while Esther unconsciously revealed the heart-burnings,
and agonies of disappointment and repentance
of an ardent impulsive nature wearing
itself out in the stretched struggle against moral
weakness, and the deadly influence of drink, and
clinging with despairing tenacity to the " honour
rooted in dishonour" that was its only guide.

Esther did not know the entirety of the tragedy
she was disclosing, or the depths of misery she
was sounding in the heart of her listener. When
little Bessie awoke with a cry, something in his
way of soothing the child, and the tone in which
he said, " Hush, little one, go to sleep again ;
you don't know what it is to suffer," startled
her into observing his face more closely ; and
when she saw how pale and set it was, jumped
to the conclusion that he must be in pain. '' Oh,
are you ill, sir ? " she asked, with a gush of pity
towards him. " Are you tired ? I am afraid that
I have tired you."

No, Esther, I am not tired," he answered, still
sadly. " But this little one is restless, and perhaps
you had better take her to her mother, or put
her to bed." He placed Bessie in her arms, and
added, '' By and by, Esther, when you are older,
bear in mind that we have each of us a great
responsibility upon us in regard to others, and
that we cannot escape from it. Our mistakes,
and failures, and selfish acts come back and haunt
us when we are old. Nothing would matter much,
if we had only ourselves and our own future to
consult ; but sometimes in trying to shape onr
own happiness, or what we think will be such, we
recklessly involve that of others, when we have
no right to do so. We bind them to us and

they cannot get release when they wish, except
at the most severe cost."

Lydyiard spoke vaguely, as though he were
referring to some painful experience in his own
life of which Esther could have no knowledge.
After a moment's pause, he continued —

'you will know by and by what I mean,
and you will realise that every individual act
involves in a greater or less degree some one
else. It is the past, which, in spite of all our
efforts and longings to escape from its thraldom,
lutes our lives till they are barely our own."

He walked away, leaving the child in Esther s
arms, and she, confused by his words, yet hardly
comprehending their meaning, carried Bessie and
the dish of prepared peaches into the kitchen,
where, in the large open fireplace, like a small
room, Mrs. Overstone stood intent upon her
preserving-pan.

A STORM AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

A FORTNIGHT Stretched in an elastic manner
into three weeks. Mr. Overstone's mustering
was delayed by the arrival of butchers from
Frazerville, which prevented him from placing
his time and his horses at Mr. Lydyiard's disposal,
and Esther's foretaste of paradise suffered
no interruption. The days passed as rapidly asa
dream, and were to her full of the same
pleasant enchantment. There comes a time later
in life, when the soul craves more solid food
than the unsubstantial sweetness of looks, and
words, and lingering hand-clasps. There seems
in love-making something higher to be longed
for, than the mere pleasure of personal proximity,
and it is not only the touch of hands or lips,
the interchange of vows, and the superficial
sympathy of young hearts, that is needed to
satisfy the fulness of human nature, but a closer

and deeper communion of souls, the longing for
which is often startling in its intensity.

Yet in spite of after yearnings, and the possibly
almost complete realisation of a higher ideal, the
glamour of a first attachment, is, to a young girl,
rarely surpassed in after life. The freshness of
early romance never comes back again, for in
the case of the ordinary woman, it is certain
that the purity of her sentiment will be alloyed
by some prudential consideration. The plummy
part of the cake may be more solidly satisfactory,
but it has not the frothy, finely flavoured sweetness
of the icing.

It has been asserted so often that the most
enjoyable phase of courtship is that in which
the love-making is tacit, and when as yet no
positive declaration has been hazarded, that the
remark has become a truism. Esther and George
Brand were at this time in a position to verify
it. Day by day the mutual understanding between
them became closer. No words of actual
love had passed between them, but there were
swift shy looks, tender pressures of the fingers,
andjustsufiicient consciousness of embarrassment
in each other's society, to make each set the
other apart from the rest of the circle, and to
heighten the delight of being together. No one
except Mr. Lydyiard took much notice of their

movements. Mr. Overstone was completely absorbed
in bis station business, and bis wife in
her jam-making and ber needlework, and even bad
both been unemployed, it was improbable that
their attention would bave been attracted by
anything as abstract as love-making. George
was therefore at perfect liberty to lounge away
his days in the society of Esther and the children.
Mr. Overstone usually returned from his day's
work on the run about dusk ; and, the evening
meal over, the party would mostly adjourn to
the verandah or grass plat ; and while Mrs.
Overstone knitted endless winter petticoats or
hose, her lord would either fall asleep over his
pipe, or discourse eloquently upon cattle, agriculture,
or Australian politics, untroubled by
Lydyiard's silent acquiescence in his theories,
and evident disinclination to discuss them. Then
when Esther had put the children to bed, she
would steal softly out and seat herself upon the
edge of the verandah, with her feet upon the
grassy slope, her slight white-clad figure supported
by a post, and her head encircled by vine
wreaths and drooping blossoms ; while Brand,
with his cigar in his mouth, would lean against
one of the pillars, and talk in a soft undertone,
languidly plucking one by one the stephanotis
flowers, and scattering the petals at her feet.

There was but a baby moon, and the dim light
from the sitting-room was just sufficient to cast
tender bewildering shadows, and to permit him
tQ, now and then, surreptitiously press Esther's
band, or to gently brush her hair with his
fingers ; and poor Esther would thrill with
pleasure at the contact, and with a touching
economy, and prevision of the future, mentally
treasure up the words as they fell from his lips
to feed upon when the source of intoxication
should have departed. The soft languor of the
southern summer night with its deep blue vault
of sky and twinkling stars, its music of breeze
and insects, and its heavy fragrance of tropical
flowers, seemed eminently adapted to such dalliance
: but though George had been many times
tempted to kiss Esther, he had never yet ventured
upon so decided a caress.

George," said Lydyiard to him one night,
when they were smoking together in the verandah
after the rest had gone to bed ; " I warned
you when we first landed upon the island not
to arouse expectations in Esther's mind which
it would be impossible for you to fulfil, but the
warning seems to have had very little effect
upon your conduct."

Expectations ! " exclaimed George, derisively.
'* Bless the child ! she would not know what the

word meant. Why, she is a perfect baby, and
has not an idea beyond the mere pleasure of my
companionship. It would be insulting her innocence
to suppose that she had any thoughts
of marriage or such like nonsense. Poor little
thing ! Do you notice how she has improved,
Lydyiard ? her eyes have a new light, and her
face has lost that hopeless look it had when we
.arrived. Her life is so wretched that it would
be hard indeed to grudge her the little happiness
that my society has brought into it."

I don't grudge it," said Lydyiard softly ;
who would grudge a motherless girl any joy ?
T pity her far more than you can do. I pity all
children who by the laws of nature can inherit
nothing but evil from their parents, I pity
Esther tenfold, because I see in her the workings
of a nobler disposition than one could reasonably
expect to find in one brought up as
she has been ; but remember, my boy, the little
happiness which you bring into her life now
may lead to a worse sorrow than any she has
yet known. Esther has been solitary since her
childhood. She is yearning for sympathy and
love. She may fancy that she has found it,
and, without having analysed her feelings, may
already have unconsciously given you her heart ;
while you, who have no serious intentions beyond

the wish to amuse yourself, may blight her life
instead of making it happier. Don't you see,
George ? "

Poor little creature ! " said George, by no
means ill-pleased at the tribute to his vanity
conveyed in the suggestion that he was capable
of inspiring an irrevocable attachment. " She is
a sweet, beautiful child, and I am very fond of
her, but of course, anything of that sort would
be quite out of the question. Imagine Uncle
Coniston s horror at the bare thought ! If that
is what you are thinking of, Lydyiard, I will try
and be careful. I won't talk to Esther more than
I can help, or make love to her in any way ; but
upon my honour I haven't said a word that she
could construe into — I haven't kissed her, or
done anything very spoony ; I assure you that
I haven't."

In pursuance of this vaguely framed resolve.
Brand the next day accompanied Mr. Overstone
to the yard, to assist at the final counting of the
cattle that were to be delivered to the butchers
that afternoon, and Esther spent the morning
alone in the garden with the children.

Esther," said Rod, '* you haven't got your
sweetheart this morning, and I don't like you
by yourself — you ain't jolly at all. I don't want
to sit still, I want you to play at horses ; and I

don't believe you've got a headache ; you're only
shamming because you are cross, and if you go
into bad tempers you'll go to hell — mother says
so."

Rod was teasing, and the baby was fractious,
and Bessie would not be amused, but cried for
the ugly man who played with her. Altogether
Esther had not a pleasant time, and though the
day was bright, and the flowers just as sweet
as ever, everything seemed more or less blank.
Even the book she tried to read carried with it
no power of absorption. Could it be George's
presence that made the difference ? and if so,
what would life be worth when he was gone ?
The dulness of negation was more endurable than
this keen regret after a transitory Elysium. From
where she sat in the garden she could hear the
din in the dockyards, and tried to distinguish
his voice above the others, but that was impossible.
Why had he gone ? He did not like the work —
he had said so ; would it not have been much
pleasant to sit under the shade of the orange-trees
with her ?

She blushed and trembled, by her look awakening
in his mind a delightful consciousness of the
gap his absence had created, when, hot, and a
little cross and disgusted, he returned at luncheon
time from the yards.

Will you get me some lemonade, Esther ? "
he said, "that's awfully jolly stuff that Mrs.
Overstone makes ; I'm so thirsty ; and those yards
are so infernally dusty. I was wishing myself
back the whole time, and thinking how deliciously
cool you must be in the garden among the grape-vines."


She did as he asked her ; and when he had
swallowed a large draught of lemonade, tinctured
with brandy — it was a concoction in which Mrs.
Overstone surpassed herself — Brand felt more
contented with the bush generally.

I wish that I always had you near me to
wait upon me," said Brand, with an ardent look ;
and Esther blushed again, and appeared to him
ten times prettier. "I wish that you could
always be with me," repeated George, with a
more tender emphasis upon the words ; and
being alone with her in the sitting-room, he
ventured to take her hand and press it gently
to his heart. She thrilled as she felt its rapid
beating. No gesture could have been more
tender or more respectful ; and Esther felt herself
transported to Arcadia again. George would
have carried her fingers to his lips, but there was
a sound of steps in the yard, and he dropped
Esther's hand suddenly, as Mr. Overstone's loud
voice became audible just outside the door.

One of the finest herds of cattle I ever sold.
Now it's a sin to think of killing that B. J.
bullock — he ought to be exhibited. Salt, sir.
There's nothing like salt for improving the
quality of the blood, and that helps to put on
fat. You'll take a glass of whisky, Mr. Tyler ?
I won't join you, for it's against my principles
to drink spirits, but help yourselves ; and directly
after luncheon we'll start down to the Narrows.
The tide turns about three o'clock. Esther, my
gell, you've had no fun this time at Bully
Wallah — no riding about the country, or galloping
after kangaroo. Suppose you and the missus
were to come down to the Narrows and seethe
crossing. Two hundred head of fat bullocks
all swimming together. Now that's a thing — a
sight, you don't get every day. You had better
ride down, Mr. Brand."

'thank you, I will certainly do so," said
Brand, all alive after the sport ; " I never saw
such a lot of animals together in my life : and
if one gets away we'll give it chase. It'll be
rare fun."

It's very hot to-day," said Mr. Overstone,
fanning himself nth his red silk pocket-handkerchief,
while the perspiration stood in beads
upon his brow ; " there's nothing like working
in the yards for making a man sweat, but it's

healthy they say. I'll take a cup of cold tea,
Esther, and then I think FU have a snooze till
lunch is ready. I expect there'll be a thunderstorm
this evening, and a good thing too, for
there are bush fires about."

A little after two o'clock the party had mounted,
and were riding through the bush to the Narrows,
where the cattle had been sent on earlier, in order
to be ready for the crossing at low tide.

The pace was necessarily slow, for the day was
sultry, and the horses dripped with the mere
exertion of a drowsy canter. The air was full
of smoke, and heavy with threatening thunder ;
and the bush fires seemed to be gaining ground,
for there was a lurid haze low upon the horizon ;
and Mrs. Overstone glanced anxiously at the sky
and then towards the paddock fences, hoping in
devout tones that '' it might rain ere long," and
keep the latter from injury.

*' Oh ! I hope not till we get home," murmured
Esther, looking pale and frightened ; "I am
always so terrified in a storm."

I will take care of you," whispered Brand,
with rash self-assertion ; " but it won't rain. Seethe
clouds are brightening already."

Long before reaching the Narrows they heard
the monotonous lowing of the herd, like the
distant roar of an immense crowd. The tide

was at its lowest. Upon each side, beyond
the mangrove-covered banks, there stretched a
black expanse of mud, and in the centre ran a
turgid stream about half a mile in width, across
which the cattle would presently swim.

The two hundred beasts were huddled together
in a yard close by the water's edge, and separated
from it by a railing and gate, which latter was
at a given signal thrown open, and the frightened
animals driven through it into the water. Menon
horseback were stationed at various points, to
hinder the cattle from escaping back into the
bush, and if one beast, maddened by terror,
succeeded in darting away from the edge of the
stream, he was swiftly pursued and rounded by
the outriders. It was altogether an exciting
scene, and Brand, entering eagerly into the sport,
spurred his horse to each of these wild gallops :
while Mrs. Overstone, hurried for the moment
out of her usual phlegmatic condition, dashed
al)Out as frantically as the men ; but Esther
and Lydyiard drew rein beneath a tree upon
the bank, and contented themselves with looking
on at the proceedings.

The crossing occupied more than an hour. Atone
time, the narrow strip of sea seemed literally
alive with men, horses, dogs, and cattle, all
struggling together in the water. There was

VOL. 1. K

such a plashing, as must have scared every shark
from that particular part of the Narrows for
many a day to come. The maddened beasts
uttered infuriated cries, as the black boys, vociferating
loudly in their native tongue, belaboured
with their stock-whips those unruly kine who
refused to face the shore ; and the dripping white
men spurred their horses to more vigorous plunges,
as they swam hither and thither in the effort to
keep the herd together in a compact body.

At length, the last animal, steaming and heaving
with fear and breathlessness, clambered up the
opposite bank ; and Mr. Overstone, wet to the
skin, with the salt water plashing from his
cabbage-tree hat on to his saddle-bow, joined
the party under the tree.

*' Andrew"' said Mrs. Overstone, '* while you
have been crossing the cattle, the fire has crept
on, and I'm afraid it's near the paddock fences.
Look ! "

She pointed inland, and at the distance of two
miles or so, they saw the flames rapidly advancing
in an irregular tongue, sending forth thick clouds
of smoke, licking up the tall dry grass that buried
like so much tinder.

"God Almighty!" cried Mr. Overstone, " ai
brand new fence that cost sixty pound a mile
to put up — a hundred and twenty pounds at

^ go ! Now that's a thing " But without

waiting to finish his sentence, he put spurs to his
horse, and darted off to a group of men who
were riding slowly up from the crossing. His
companions caught the words " Wire fencing,"
Free selectors," floating back upon the breeze,
and then saw him despatch with violent gesticulations
the black boys to the front, to meet, and
if possible arrest, the flames.

How dark it is," exclaimed George ; " why it
must be nearly sundown."

No," said Mrs. Overstone. '' It's awful murky,
but it's a storm brewing ; I doubt though, if it
will come in time to save the fence — and there's a.
wind getting up. Don't be frightened, Esther, we
must help to put out the fire ; and I have just remembered
that the dairy window is left open,
and the cream beneath it all ready for churning.
It'll be spoiled to a certainty."

Come along," cried Mr. Overstone. " There's
no time to lose. You must all help to beat the
fire. A brand new fence ! I can't afford to have
more nor a hundred pound burned before my eyes.
Follow me, Gritty. Brand, look after the gell; I'm
going to take you straight through the bush — and
mind the trees. Ef I had looked which way the
wind was blowing, the cattle might have gone to
old Nick before I helped to cross em."

Mr. Overstone took a lead straight across -
country in the direction of the fire, with his wife,
an excellent horsewoman, at his heels. Lydyiard
followed, and Brand spurred on his already tired
horse, looking back every now and then to
exhort Esther not to be frightened. It was a
rough gallop through the bushes, over fallen logs,
and across dry gullies, the branches of the trees
scratching their faces, and the undergrowth tearing;
the ladies' habits. The dav strew darker and
leader ; in the distance there were angry growling,
while ahead, the sky looked lurid from the
reflection of the fire, and banked up black behind
in a wall of thundercloud and pent rain. The
keen wind, which usually precedes a tropical
storm, hurled along dry leaves, and rotten refuse
of dead trees, and swept the flames faster and
faster on towards the apparently doomed fence.
Frightened cattle aud scared kangaroos fled here
and there for shelter, and snakes, lizards, and
iguanas sought refuge in the trees ; while the
rank lady grass and dry timber that strewed the
o-round were like so much touchwood to the fire.

When the riders came within sight of the
fence, the black boys and men whom Mr. Over-stone
had sent on before, were already hard at
work beating with green boughs at the flames.
Apparently, however, success depended more

upon the timely bursting of the storm, than upon
any human efforts that could be made, for the
fire was raging too fiercely for there to be any
hope of quenching it.

Mr. Overstone threw his horse's bridle over a
rail of the fence, and breaking; off a husje wattle
bough, joined with frenzied energy the other
labourers. The rest of the party, women included,
followed his example, and, branches in hand,
rushed hither and thither amid the smoke.

"This way. Gritty," cried Mr. Overstone.
*' God bless the storm, ef it only hurries itself
a bit."

They all beat upon the ground, presenting a
curious spectacle, with the smoke enveloping
their figures, and the flames playing upon their
faces. The wind increased, and darkness gathered
deeper behind, while lightning-flashes every now
and then streaked the blackness, and loud claps
of thunder shook the earth.

"Oh, come on, can't you ? " cried Mr. Overstone,
furiously addressing the elements. " There's a
post ablaze already, and ef you'd only pour instead
of growling, you'd save a deal of damage."

As if in answer to his appeal, the drops descended
larger and faster, and presently a heavy
flower, spluttering upon the burning timber
and grass, rendered further exertion unnecessary.

Mr. Overstone threw away his half charred bough
and caught his horse, which, aLarmed by the
lightning, had broken away from the fence.
'• Now that was a close shave," he said, mopping
his face with his great silk handkerchief. '' Five
minutes more would have seen the end of a good
nuuiy pounds. Make haste, Gritty, and mount ;
1 can hear the hail rattling, and TU bet my hat
it's ii'oing to be the worst storm we've had this
summer ! Down with the slip rails, Smuggler —
we must ride straight on, and jump the fence on
the other side ; there's no time to go round. Ita
stiffish 'un, but the horses will do it if you
give 'em their heads."

Mounting in confusion, they all dashed helter
skelter through the slip rails, and across the paddock,
till the opposite fence was reached. It
looked a stiff piece of timber, and not one of
the riders would have take it in cold blood
earlier in the day, but it is wonderful what
courage desperation infuses into both man and
beast, and there was a dense sheet of hail pursuing
them, of which any one of the stones
would have stunned the most thick-headed of
the party.

All got over safely except Esther, who was
last, and whose horse, unmanageable from terror,
budged at the rails. Several precious moments

were lost, and the others were galloping madly
towards the house, now quite close. " Oh, what
shall I do ? " shrieked the girl ; " I can't jump it
—I shall be killed."

Lydyiard heard the cry, and would have
turned to her assistance, but his horse had the
bit in its teeth, and the rider was powerless.
Brand heard it too, and suffered a momentary
pang of shame for having forgotten Esther in
the thought of his own safety. He turned,
saw the girl's agonised face, and putting his
own horse again at the fence, struck Cavalier
a sharp cut with his whip, and goaded the
frightened beast to the leap. A moment after
they had both achieved it, a tree struck by
lightning fell almost in their path. Esther
shrieked again, and Brand, uttering a hurried
ejaculation of reassurance, seized her bridle. As
the first ball of hail struck with a tremendous
clatter the tin roofing of a cart shed, they gained
the shelter of the yard.

The others had already dismounted and had
disappeared within the house, except Lydyiard,
who lingered to assure himself of Esther's safety.
George, throwing himself from his horse's back
on to the verandah, snatched Esther in his arms,
and bore her into the first place of shelter that
presented itself. This happened to be the little

back room used by Mr. Overstone as a study.
It was quite dark except when transiently illuminated
by the flashes of lightning, which revealed
glimpses of a rough table strewed with
ledgers, an uncarpeted floor, and a few rude
chairs. The thunder cracked in volleys directly
over the house ; the hail pattered upon the roof,
and the rain swept in under the eaves, and
beneath the closed door.

Oh, I am so frightened," said Esther, clinging
convulsively to George, as he held her up against
him.

Darling ! " he murmured passionately, thrilled
by the touch of the little wet hands against his
neck.

He said not a word more while the fury of the
storm lasted. They leaned trembling against
each other, feeling security in the contact ; more
like a terrified boy and girl than a pair of lovers.
Brand's heart swelled with a curious joy at the
feeling that he was protecting her. He held her
waist, and clasped her to him, tingling all over
as her hair brushed his cheek, while she yielded
to the pressure, thrilling with a strange delight
in spite of her terror. At every burst of thunder,
or more vivid flash of lightning, their hands closed
round each other spasmodically. It indicated no
want of physical bravery that they trembled and

were awed. Esther had all the superstitious dread
of thunder usual with a woman. George, who
was in an ordinary way courageous enough in
the presence of physical danger, became conscious
of a hitherto unknown personality, and was
frightened as much at the new self which seemed
to have suddenly revealed itself to him in the
midst of this fury of the elements, as at the
storm itself.

Once, when Esther trembled violently, he kissed
her on the lips. The caress set his nerves quivering
and his heart throbbing, so that it was useless;
TO think of yesterday's prudential resolves. T
was all very well for an old ascetic like Lydyiarc
to preach, but he — Brand — was young, and hac
warm lustily-flowing blood. . . . There was surely
no harm in kissing Esther — all pretty women
were meant to be kissed. How many rosy
mouths had not his pressed ! and he had never
thought anything of it, or reproached himself
afterwards. Why should Esther be different to
any one else ? What was there in the touch of
her flesh that filled him with such bewildering
sweet agitation ? Her cheeks were like velvet
and there was a soft dearness upon her lips.
He would do her no harm — but he could not
hel[) loving her.

The thoughts just flashed through his mind ;

he did not frame them into a process of mental
reasoning, for he was trembling too ; and he
went on kissing her again and again.

Young love calmly written of by a third
person appears trite and common-place ; but
there is a time when it seems to open the very
portals of Elysium. Esther was like the butterfly,
which, emerging from the chrysalis phase,
first becomes conscious of a winged existence.
She was giddy and tremulous with excitement.

They neither of them knew how long they
stood thus together, or which of them moved
first. They seemed to become simultaneously
aware of the fact that the thunder was dying
away into the distance, and the rain ceasing,
and moved apart. Esther, her face covered
with blushes, walked to the window. " It is
getting lighter," she said ; " the storm is going
over."

George joined her, and they looked out upon
a scene of desolation. Part of the roofing had
been torn from the outhouses, branches of trees
strewed the ground, and a portion of the fence
had been blown down.

'* We can never forget it," said Brand, in a
low voice ; *' it's not only because it was terrible
in itself, but — we can never be the same to one
another again."

They seemed to turn by mutual impulse
towards each other. " Esther," exclaimed George,
hurried by his passionate longing into a declaration
which he had never contemplated making ;
Esther'* he said, " I think that you are the
sweetest and dearest woman I have ever known.
I can't help loving you. I want you to belong
to me — to go away with me by and by, and to
live with me always. I want you to tell me that
you prefer me to any one else in the world ! "

There could be no one else," murmured
Esther.

He kissed her again. " And now you belong
to me. It is more than being friends, though
we were that from the beginning:. I think that
1 loved you from the first moment I ever saw
you. You were so childlike and confiding — so
different to all other girls. You look prettier
than ever now with that soft colour in your
cheeks and the light in your eyes. Mousie — I
shall call you Mousie, it seems to suit you —
you'll never be lonely any more. Why are
you blushing, darling ? You need not be shy
with me now."

I ought to go in, sir, and change my wet
things."

*' Not just yet ; and you must never call me
sir ' again. That was all very well before, but

now we are different. Call me George when wo
are alone. I won't let you go, Esther, till you
give me something of your own accord. Can't
you guess what it is ? "

She put her hands up to his shoulders timidly,
and then lifted herself and touched his face
with her lips. A gii'l soon learns the lessons of
love, but she was longing to get away, and to be
alone with her new experience ; she wanted to
think over what had befallen her.

They had sat for a little while together when
there were some calls outside for Esther, and as
she was rising to go, the study-door opened, and
Mr. Lydyiard appeared. He saw at a glance
that something had happened. " They are calling
you, Esther," he said, Quietly ; " I am glad to see
that you got in safely before the storm broke."
And she escaped, but only to fall in with the
Overstones, who were soothing the crying children,
and lamenting over the disasters of the storm,
while they tried to restore order in the establishment.


It was some time before Esther could snatch
a few moments to herself ; and then, as she stood
in her own room, smiling and blushing to herself
in her tender transport, the bell rang loudly for
tea, and she had only time to change her wet
clinging habit for dry garments, before the

children called her to cut their bread and
butter.

'george," said Lydyiard, when they were
alone in the study ; '' you have broken your
promises

*'I don't know what you mean," answered
George, in a defensive tone.

Yes, you do. Last night you gave me to
understand that you would alter your manner to
Esther — that you would not try to engross her
society — yet I find you shut up here with her
alone."

That was an accident," said George ; '' we
took refuge in here from the storm."

'* The storm was at an end honos before I

o

entered ; and I saw by her face that something
had happened."

What should have happened ? " asked George,
evasively.

You know best. What Ls it that has usually
happened when a young man is found alone with
a beautiful girl, in whom he has confessed to
feeling a strong interest — when he looks ardent
and confused, and when she is blush in (? and
quivering as if with a new and delightful
sensation ? "

How poetically you put it ! " exclaimed
George ; ''no one who heard you would take

you for the old misogynist that you are. You
show an extraordinary interest in Esther' he
went on, a little crossly. ** I really believe that
you are jealous ; what can it matter to you
whether or no she has a few foolish words said
to her ? Some fellow is bound to be spoony on
her sooner or later — all girls go through the
same sort of thing, and they are none the worse
for it."

You admit then that you have been making
love to her ? "

"I don't know what you call 'making love.'
If you must have the truth, there is very little
to tell. We were shut up in here while the storm
was going on — by Jove, what an awful one it
was ! — and she was frightened — and I kissed her
and said something about being fond of her —
that's all."

"You don't honestly think that will be all,
George. What is to be the end of it ? "

I mean no harm — all fellows do the same.
This isn't the first time you have taken that
tone. Are you hinting that I want to be a
scoundrel ? "

Brand spoke angrily, but a flush overspread
his face, and his heart began to beat unpleasantly
at the suggestion which was conveyed in his
own words. He had been carried away by his

impulses, and now that the question had arisen,
he wondered what was to be the end of his love
passage with Esther. What did she expect him
to do ? She could not seriously imagine that he
would marry her. Perhaps she was not as innocent
as she seemed. He had heard, or read, that
girls in the colonies were full of precocity. Of
course* he did not mean any harm. Illicit connections
were not new to him. He had " done
wrong " in that way like every one else, but he had
never — except in that early episode in his life,
and the woman, if young, had been shameless —
planned the ruin of a confiding girl.

He had not thought of the end of it. He
could not marry Esther, he did not see how that
would be possible ; but if his passions got the
better of him — after all, in that lawless country
it would not matter much ; but no — he was not
bad enough to think of that — of course he meant
no harm.

'' No, I am not, George." Lydyiard's voice
recalled him to himself '' I think that you are
weak and easily led away, but I should be sorry
to think evil of you."

No man likes to be called weak ; it is almost
as insulting as to be told that he is a coward.

Brand was subject to quick fits of anger, and
he was considerably nettled now. '^ Look here,

Lydyiard ; what do you mean by talking to me
like that ? I am as good a man as you, any day,
and I won't be preached to as though I were a
nincompoop. I don't want you to trouble yourself
about my business. Nothing that passes
between me and Esther can matter to you.
Leave us to ourselves."

'^ Don't flatter yourself that I am concerned
about you," retorted Lydyiard ; " it is of Esther
that I am thinking. You are a man, and can
bear disappointment, and I don't think that any
amount of personal responsibility would give
you a sleepless night — but Esther is different.
There are women who will fling every consideration
to the winds, and murder their own lives,
and the lives of others, for the sake of a
misplaced passion."

What are you driving at ? " cried Brand ; '' I
have told you that I don't mean any harm. Who
is talking of murdering Esther's life, or that of
any one else ? "

I know too," continued Lydyiard, " that a
man may be haunted in after life, by an act
committed in youth, when he was impulsive and
hot-headed, and thought only of himself He
'nay have been carried away by the passion of
:he moment, into saying or doing that which
iras influenced the lives of others, and made them

bad or wretched. Don't you see, George ? We
can't live and bear alone the brunt of our
mistakes and misdoings — others suffer through
US. We must be members of the human brotherhood."


I think that is rot," said Brand, who had no
patience with abstract moralising. " If one spent
one's life in considering other people, there would
be no pleasure in living ; and I have said that I
mean no harm. A kiss more or less does not
matter. It might, if the thing became really-serious,
but I will be careful. I was carried away
this afternoon, but a fellow does not like to be
told he is a fool, and a man can't go back all at
once. I'm very fond of Esther ; I don't think
that I ever cared so much for a girl before."

Do you mean," asked Lydyiard, " that you
would marry her ? If so, there are things — things
you ought to be told — other considerations that
you must weigh."

If it came to that," said George, " there
would be an infernal number of things to consider
; I know that well enough, but I did not
mean that. A fellow may be fond of a girl
without wanting to make her his wife. It is
a long leap from a kiss to marriage."

"■ I will warn her," said Lydyiard, shortly.

You had better take my advice and do

VOL. I. L

nothing of the kind. What business is it of
yours 1 I am not a baby, that I want some one
to settle my private affairs for me. If there is
to be interference, I will not answer for my
conduct. Do you hear, Mr. Lydyiard ? "

Your leave will expire shortly," said Lyd5dard,
coldly.

'* I could easily get it extended if I wished,
and I will do so if you put your finger in the
pie. I won't have any d — d meddling."

The bell summoned them to tea, and George
hastily left the room to change his wet clothes
before joining the rest of the party.

IN THE GARDEN AT BULLY WALLAH.

Esther was sent early to bed that evening.
The rain still fell in a continuous drizzle, and
the storm had been followed by a keen wind,
which swept boisterously round the house, making
the slab walls crack and groan, and as it penetrated
beneath the eaves, causing the stretched
canvas ceilings to quiver and flap. Consequently
the whole party was confined indoors, and a tete-tete
between Esther and George was impracticable.
Mrs. Overstone darned diligently, and her husband
arranged with Mr. Lydyiard the programme
of the morrow's proceedings. At last the mustering
was at an end, and the station at liberty to
devote itself to other than bovine business. It
was settled that they were to take with them
blankets and provisions, and to camp out for the
night, in order to allow ample time for the inspection
of Bishop Medlicott's land. This achieved,

Lydyiard's mission upon Mundoolan Island would
for the present be practically accomplished ; but
Mr. Overstone's views knew no limitations, and
he was pressing upon his guest the expediency
of delivering in England a series of lectures,
founded upon the immortal pamphlets, and besought
him to remain a little longer and " talk
the matter over'

There was no ostensible reason why Brand
should not accompany his friend and host. It
would have appeared strange had he begged to
remain at Bully Wallah ; he was therefore reluctantly
obliged to pack up his swag, and to forego
the present pleasure of amorous tete-d-tetes with
Esther. She, on her side, was too happy to appreciate
this privation; indeed, she was glad to be
alone, that she might dwell upon her new-found
joy. She felt herself breathing a fresh and rarefied
atmosphere, miles higher than the sublunary air
which filled the nostrils of the other inhabitants
of the island. When she walked, her feet seemed
hardly to touch the ground, and all the time that
she was tending the children, and listening to
the morning and nightly prayers, her heart was
singing to itself a paean of thanksgiving. Someone
loved her. She was to belong to some one.
A fuller and more glorious life seemed to be
opening before her. She felt herself thrilling with

hitherto undreamed-of capabilities, now that a
motive power had been given her — now that
this young demi-god had been sent to her to
draw her upwards. '' Oh, I do love him. He
is so good. I do love him' she whispered to
herself, as she lav awake in her little bed in the
nursery, with the children sleeping peacefully
beside her, and Mrs. Overstone snoring plethorically
through the partition at her head. It did
not occur to Esther, that matrimonial felicity
might, to some "intelligences, take the form of
stolid content with the lot decreed, and a still lower
grovelling along the paths of life, as exemplified
in the bearings of children and the making of
jams. Marriage, as a practical consideration, had
never entered into Esther's thoughts of the future.
It was a culmination which she had not as yet
taken into account.

It is more interesting to dwell upon the fluttering
of Esther's maiden heart, than upon the
geographic position and geologic strata of the
site for the projected colony. The latter subjects
in all their bearings occupied exclusively,
however, the attention of Mr. Lydyiard ; and
during the two days spent in the expedition,
he thoroughly examined every acre of the three
thousand comprised in the scene of Bishop
Medlicott's abortive attempt at conversion, and

even drew up a map of its physical conformation
and general characteristics, for the enlightenment
of the intending colonists.

Emigration was one of Mr. Lydyiard's pet
hobbies. He had studied the subject from the
stand-point of political economy, had written
and lectured upon it, and was bitten with the
notion of educating the lower orders to a
standard requisite for developing the resources
of a new country. He was not visionary
enough to believe in an impossible Utopia, but
he had an indestructible faith in the capabilities
of the human race, and an intense longing to
elevate the moral tone of society by the inculcation
of that ** worship of humanity," a cultus
so prevalent among the positivist thinkers of
the age. England seemed a field of abuses,
and the attention of political economists had
not, he thought, sufficiently embraced the effectiveness
of an improved system of emigration,
as a remedy for existing evils. The task of
remodelling an old form of society appeared
hopeless in comparison with the effort of constructing
a new, with elements more likely to
result in approximate success ; and to be a link
in the chain of beneficial influence seemed to
Lydyiard the noblest ambition for which to
strive.

He liked the land. It promised many facilities
for the carrying out of his scheme, and the
fact of its isolation was to his mind a strong:
point in its favour. The ground seemed fertile,
and was well watered. He discovered indications
of coal, which suggested a future line of
industry, and the immunity from frost was propitious
to the cultivation of sugar and cotton —
branches of agriculture which he wished to commend
to the notice of the settlers. He mentally
apportioned the land into lots of three hundred
acres, and, before he quitted it, had resolved
upon sending in his papers to the Queensland
government, and upon returning to England
as soon as he should have mastered the nicer
details connected with free selection.

Mr. Overstone having begun to look upon
the settlement almost as an origination of his
own brain, was full of its prospects, and saw
already, in the vista of the future, a flourishing
port at the island, a miniature forest of masts,
and daily transit of steamers, to be supplied
with coal, of which he was certain there were
extensive seams upon his own run. He was
convinced that coal, in the abstract, was a
thing to be taken up, that it had never been
thoroughly considered, and as a mineral production
of Australia, would never be worked

advantageously till lie — Mr. Overstone — had
elaborated views concerning it, and had proved
them in the House.

Brand listened in apathetic silence. He cared
nothing for ]Mr. Lydyiard's settlement, or for
the benefits it promised to confer upon Australia.
The probable discovery of coal-beds, or the successful
cultivation of cotton, were matters of no
importance to him. The vision of some people
is bounded by their own consciousness, and
Brand's mental perspective embraced at present
only Esther and himself, and what immediately
concerned them. The remainder of the universe
held a very infinitesimal claim upon his consideration.
He was trying to reconcile in his
mind, expediency, morality, and inclination, and
found, as others have done before him, the extreme
difficulty of equalising the triangle. He
was far from having succeeded, when, upon the
evening of the third day, they returned to Bully
Wallah.

Esther was sitting in a corner of the verandah,
when the mens' voices sounded without in the
yard. An overpowering shyness made her linger
behind Mrs. OverstODC, and tremble at the
thought of meeting her lover's eyes. It was
difficult at the moment to convince herself,
that the scene in the study had been anything

but a dream, and that they would stand together
no more upon the mutual ground they
had occupied three days ago. Daring the meal
which followed upon their arrival, Brand would
persistently try to catch Esther's eye, or, beneath
the corner of the table which separated them,
to gain surreptitious possession of her hand.
To a more experienced, or to a coarser-minded
woman, this might have appeared vulgar importunity,
but to Esther it was only bewildering
and sweet.

Come into the garden by and by," he
whispered, as she left the room with the children ;
steal round by the banana-trees, and I will
join you in the arbour."

As soon as Eod and Bessie had said their little
prayers, and the baby had been soothed into
slumber, Esther softly quitted the nursery, to
meet Brand in a little vine-trellised summerhouse
about ten paces from the end of the
verandah, and concealed from it by an intervening
thicket of bananas. She walked slowly,
her maidenly instinct recoiling somewhat from
this advance to the embraces of a lover ; but
George saw her white dress fluttering among
the trees, and rushing towards her, took her
eagerly into his arms, and pressed her to him,
kissing her repeatedly, till Esther uttered her

faint protest. " Oh, Mr. Brand ! oh, sir ! indeed,
you must not ! "

Don't be frightened, Mousie. There's no
harm in ,my kissing you. You are mine now,
remember, and I may do what I like with
you. You don't feel sorry, darling, for what
has happened ? "

*' No ; oh, no ! " murmured Esther, below her
breath ; " I have been so happy."

"So have I. At least, I should have been
happy, if I had been with you, instead of riding
round that beastly selection. And how the
mosquitoes tucked into one 1 You did not miss
me, then, Esther ? "

*' I think it was good to be alone," said Esther
softly. " I liked to think over all that had
happened, and to tell myself that it was quite,
quite true."

You sweet little thing. Did you think that
you had dreamed it in the night, and that I was
a sort of ghostly lover ? This will convince you
that I am flesh and blood." And there followed
another passionate embrace, for Brand was not
chary of demonstration. " What soft cheeks you
have ! and such delicious kittenish ways," and soon
; blanks may be filled by the imagination of the
reader if he or she be fresh and youthful enough
to recollect the transport of young passion.

^*Yoii have not said anything to the others,
Esther?" asked Brand after a little while.
The Overstones don't guess, do they, that
you — that I am sweet upon you"

No," answered Esther, upon whom the
question jarred ever so slightly. '' I couldn't
speak of what was deep in my heart. It would
seem like — like talking of God, or of my mother
to a person who only laughed at what I felt."

Do you feel like that about it, Esther ? "
asked Brand, a little wonderingly.

I don't quite know yet what I feel," answered
Esther, " I wanted to be alone, that I might
think about it more fully. I used always to
be wondering about some things — things that
I read of, or that came into my mind when I
was walking by myself — and now they seem to
be nearer. It was only in books that people
ever were kind and good, or that they denied
themselves for the sake of others. If my father
had been good, mother would have been so much
happier. Everything that was real was hard
and cruel — and it seemed most cruel of all that
one should been given thoughts and longings,
that were of no use except to make one miserable
; but now it is as though they might be
of use to us — as though they might teach people
to understand each other clearly."

Esther was taking up her thoughts brokenly,
with a helpless searching after the right words
with which to convey what was in her mind. In
all her young life she had seemed out of harmony
with outward things, and this had vaguely puzzled
her, but now external life seemed to have been
brought into agreement with her inner longings,
and she attributed this wonderful change entirely
to the new element Brand had imported into her
existence. But he had no sympathy with anything
so incapable of demonstration, and though he was
stroking her hand softly all the time, he was not
paying much heed to her words. He did not
understand them, or follow in the least the bent
of her mind. He was thinking how pretty she
looked, as she glanced up at him with an expression
that was almost beseeching on her face.
She was mutely asking him for what he could
never give her ; but he was quite unconscious of
any mental divergence between them. He was
wondering; within himself how he could ever
give her up — how it would end. Then this
consideration roused him to replying to her
vague utterances, as he had dimly interpreted
them.

Of course, darling," he said ; " I can enter
into your feelings. The Overstones are so rough
and coarse, they could never understand you ;

and I would much rather they did not know
how — how things are between us. But there is
Lydyiard — he guesses — and he may speak to
you, and try to make mischief between us, but
you must not pay attention to anything he may
say. Darling," he added, passionately clasping
her tighter — and she could feel his heart beating
in a way that almost frightened her — " I have
been thinking. If we could only go away together
— away, quite by our own two selves —
from these people who do not understand you —
and who are cruel to you."

They are not unkind," whispered Esther,
nodding loyally towards the house. " They
mean nothing but food to me : and as for the
other — he is my father."

What does it matter about him ? " cried
George, hotly. '* If you would trust yourself
to me — to me only, wee would go away together.
I would do you no harm. You are not afraid
of me — of being alone with me ? you would
not fear that I should hurt you, Esther ? "

Esther, in her ignorance, saw no veiled meaning
in George's words. She did not know that there
could be any less legitimate connection between
man and woman than that implied by marriage.
She had lived all her life upon the island. She
knew no one but the Overstones and the pilots.

In the few books she had read, moral wrong of
that kind had been presented to her under the
vaguest colouring. And yet, as George's wife
she had not apportioned to herself any definite
future. She had not thought of marriage, though
of course, upon reflection, it constituted the only
possible result to her present ecstatic condition.
It had seemed to her that the whole type of
womanhood had in her person received a new
and astonishing revelation. She could hardly
realise that there were many women in the world,
who had gone through precisely the same experience
; and of the material obligations conveyed
by the word *'wife,'' she had the most Arcadian
notion.

Afraid ? " she repeated ; " no, I am not afraid
of you."

My own ! " he whispered, still more passionately.
"Then you will come — you will trust
yourself to me ? We will go away."

Where, sir ? " asked Esther, her imagination
excited by the thought of travel.

"To Sydney first — afterwards to England —
the Mediterranean — wherever my regiment maybe
ordered ; but it would not matter in the least
where we were sent ; it would be sure to be some
joy place, and we should be together. You see,"
he went on more hurriedly, " I am not my own

master. It is not as though I were rich and
independent ; I can't do what I choose. It would
be a long time before I could think of marrying
you, or of taking you to Grately. I don't know
how I could do it — what would happen. There's
my uncle — Lord Coniston — he gives me everything,
and I dare not offend him. He would
expect me to marry my equal in position ; someone
wealthy and high-born. It's aU nonsense,
but there it is. You understand me, darling ? "

Brand thought he had made his meaning clear
to her, and waited breathlessly for her reply.
But Esther was far from apprehending it.

I think I do," she said, drawing herself a
little farther from him, her lips quivering. '^ You
mean that he would be angry with you for loving
me — because I am ignorant and poor ; and nothing
would ever make me the same as your cousin, for
instance, who has been brought up so differently.
Oh, I understand. It would be Hke the king you
were reading about the other day, and the beggar
maid. I am only a beggar maid. It is your
goodness which has made you care for me. I had
not thought of marrying you now. I had thought
of nothing, but that I might love you. And as
for money," she continued, hotly and tremulously,
that is nothing — nothing. Would I not scorn
myself if I cared for money ! I have worked

all my life. I would work for you, as wives work
for their husbands, if you wished it."

My poor Esther ! " said Brand ; " do you think
I would let you do that ? "

I could cook, and wash, and mend for you''
Esther went on ; *' what have I known better ?
Oh, sir ! when two people love each other everything
should be equal ; but I could not bear that
you should stoop — that you should regret — I
could bear better to be left."

Everything is equal," cried Brand, swept by
a wave of remorse at his vague intention of
wronging her. He could not be a villain ; it
would be like murdering a child to deceive one
so innocent. He kissed her again, but more
tranquilly. " Everything shall be equal," he
repeated, with an emphasis which startled her.

She put her lips to his hand with a gesture
infinitely touching. It seemed to her that their
relationship had within the last few moments
assumed a new aspect. " I love you for being
so noble," she murmured ; " but you must not
stoop to me. I only want to love you — that
you should love me — not marry me — now. There
are other things which would make it impossible
for me to go away. I could not leave my father ;
I promised my mother that, even if he were
unkind to me, I would never forsake him. One

could never break a promise made to a person
who was dead, and who one knew, had felt very
deeply about the thing they had asked one."

"Are you afraid that your mother's ghost
might haunt you ? " asked George. " My darling,
even the angels could not hold you bound to a
drunken brute who ill-treats you ! "

'' You don't understand," said Esther, in a
pained voice.

You are a Quixotic darling," exclaimed
George ; " but let the matter rest," he added,
lightly accepting the easiest solution of the
difficulty. "Let us be happy in the joys of
to-day, and leave the future to take care of
itself. There is no use in bothering over the
morrow."

At that moment Mr. Overstone's voice jarred
upon their ears.

Where is Esther ? " he asked, awakening
suddenly from his nap in the verandah. '' I
have hardly seen the gell since we came back."

I ought to go in," murmured Esther.

'' She is with the children," replied Mrs. Over-stone
; *' perhaps she is tired and has gone to bed.
It was late when you came home ; and she has been
helping me to clean the house after the storm.
She is a weedy, dreamy thing ; I doubt that she'll
ever be able to earn her own living. Such a

VOL. I. M

muck as you never saw. The hams in the meat-house
soused to the bone, and my last boiling of
jam half spoiled with water'

'^ ril go to bed," whispered Esther, disengaging
herself from George's arms ; "I couldn't face
them now and they'll not miss me."

George broke off a bunch of jasmine and gave
it to her ; '' Dream of me, darling — say that you
will dream of me. I know that you will flit
before my ' slumbrous vision ' like a phantom
eluding my grasp when possession seems a
certainty."

There was another passionate embrace, and
'then Esther crept to bed. She fell asleep with
the jasmine against her cheek, like a talisman
which admitted her into a charmed land.

THE RETURN TO THE PILOT Station.

Early the next morning, when the whole
party were sitting at breakfast, Joe Bride, travel-stained
and weary, appeared in the verandah.

Why, Joe ! " exclaimed Mr. Overstone,
what has happened 1 Have you been here
all night V

'' I've walked from the pilot station," said
Joe, *' and I'm main tired. Muster Overstone.
I've walked the whole blessed night — not but
what it is pleasant then, if there's a bit of
moon, and a more enable temperature. However,
I'd be thankful if you'd give me a mount back,
sir. I've come for Esther."

'' For me!" exclaimed Esther. " Did my father
send for me ? Is there anything wrong ? "

'* Well, he have said as he'd like to see you''
said Joe, '' and it ain't no one's duty to deny
a gell to her father. Hagartt's had an awful

M 2

bad bout of it this time. The shakes and the
devils fearful We've been nursing him — my
old woman and me — but it wasn't a fit sis^ht fora
gell ; and till he knew himself a bit, I kep it
from you, Miss Esther."

Oh, Joe ! " exclaimed Esther, reproachfully,
it wasn't right of you. You know I would
have gone back at once. Has he been so very
ill ? You should have come for me sooner, Joe ;
I'll be ready to start in a minute."

You needn't hurry, Miss Esther. There's no
fear of Hagartt missing you — Nancy is seeing
after him. Her first husband died in drink, soit
comes natural like. I must have a bit of
summit to eat before we start — if Muster Over-stonewall
let me go into the kitchen. Well," he
added, his eyes resting on Esther's face than
almost paternal pride ; " you are looking
bonny ; is it the salt, or what, that has brought
such a pretty pink in your cheeks ? — I doubt it
was the smell of brandy that made you look so
sickly — though to be sure, barmaid have mostly
hio'li colours — of a sort."

o

It's the feeding. It's the feeding," said ]mr.
Overstone decisively. " Go and have your breakfast,
Joe, ril be out in a few moments to see
after the horses."

Mr. Overstone gulped down his last draught

of tea, and followed Bride into the yard. Esther
hastily swallowed hers, and left the room to
make her preparations for the ride. Joe and
the squatter stood talking earnestly at the
kitchen door for a minute, and then the latter
re-entered, a concerned look upon his fat face.

From what Joe says, Gritty, I think that
Hobart has about done for himself this time —
I always said drink would kill him, and I doubt
that he'll ever get up again''

Mrs. Overstone looked placidly up from a piece
of bread and butter she was spreading for Bessie.

"Well, Andrew, I have told you before that
Esther might have a home here if you are
willing. She's a weedy thing, and not strong
enough to be of much use in carrying baby ; but
feeding will improve her, and she will save us the
bother of those black gins, at any rate."

Brand could barely restrain his disgust and
impatience at Mrs. Overstone's utilitarian view
of the matter.

"There's time enough to think of that. Gritty,
when her father is off the hooks ; but I'm bothered
about the gell to-day. It goes against me to send
her off alone with Joe. He and the other men
might be signalled for, to a steamer, and Nancy
is a dropsical old body. Ef Hagartt should turn
violent, there's no knowing what might come to

the women — and if lie dies, a corpse is poor
company for a gell."

*' To be sure there is the laying out ! " said
practical Mrs. Overstone, " but Nancy is equal
to that. I haven't had much experience with
dead bodies myself. If you're thinking of me
going, Andrew, it is quite out of the question.
I couldn't leave the children — or the house —
with the muck in the kitchen, and the mincemeat
to be made, and the grape jelly to be
boiled all over assail — I couldn't do it."

"No, no," said Mr. Overstone, "but I was
wondering if I could go."

You know best, Andrew, but I should say it
Alas just impossible ; you must remember that
there's the beast in the yard for killing, and the
men will be up from the south end this evening
for rations. We cooked the last piece of beef
yesterday — a bit of the brisket it was — and there's
fowls for dinner to-day."

"No, no, you're right," said Mr. Overstone,
I could not leave the head station."

I will go," said Lydyiard, rising abruptly ;
'' it is not right that so young a girl should be
alone. I have had some experience of men in
the pilot's condition, and I will ride back with
Esther and Bride if you will lend me a horse."

Now that's the very thing ! " exclaimed Mr.

Overstone, visibly relieved. "There are plenty
of horses — and it is kind of you to propose it,
Mr. Lydyiard."

'rand I will go also," cried Brand, "I might
be of use''

You had better stay where you are, Brand,"
said Lydyiard, shortly ; " your leave will expire
directly. "

Brand darted upon him a fiery glance.

I'll see about that, I will telegraph from the
pilot station — and it is all the more reason that
I should be on the spot."

*' Then there need be but one chicken cooked,"
murmured Mrs. Overstone sotto voce ; and so the
matter was settled.

Esther was too full of thoughts of her father,
and of self-reproach at her utter forgetfulness
of him, to talk much to George on the way
home, and Mr. Lydyiard kept so closely beside
her that it was impossible to converse privately
with her lover. Her sensitive conscience was
troubling her, and she was aching with the fear
that she had not acted as her mother would have
wished, in leaving her father, to seek her own
pleasure at Bully Wallah. The intensity of the
happiness made the wrong-doing seem greater,
and though her sense of filial obligation was
not large in the abstract, she had an almost

superstitious reverence for the promise she
had given her dying mother.

Once, impelled by a longing for sympathy, she
said suddenly to Lydyiard, whose eye she had
caught, "Oh, do you think that it was wicked
to leave him ? was it wrong of me to go to
Bully Wallah ? "

'' I am glad to see that you think of what you
ought to have done'' said he, "but, my poor
child, it would have been hard for you to witness
what Joe and his wife have seen. It was no duty
of yours to nurse your father." He spoke sternly,
and then dropped behind, as though to avoid
further conversation.

As they neared the pilot station, Joe Bride,
with visible anxiety, gave his horse the rein, and
was the first to enter Hagartt's cottage. The rest
followed more slowly, and George was helping-esther
to dismount, when Bride came out again
and whispered something to Mr. Lydyiard. Both
the men looked horror-stricken, and Esther,
watching their faces, was startled by the fear
that something had happened, and was about
to rush into the sitting-room, when Lydyiard
putting forth his hand restrained her. "No,
Esther," he said, " don't go in just yet. Comedown
with me to Bride's hut. I have something
to say to you."

What is it 1 " cried Esther ; ''I can't hear it
now. I want to go to my father — I ought not
to have left him — I am sure that he is very ill.
I am not afraid — oh, let me go to him at
once ! "

'* No," said Lydyiard, " you cannot go to him
now ; he does not need you. You must hear
first what I have to tell you''

Esther turned with whitened face from
Lydyiard to Joe, and then to the group of
sailors, who, with Bride's wife, had assembled
upon the verandah. " Nancy is here," she
exclaimed, " and something dreadful has happened
— I see it in your looks ! Oh tell me, please !
What is the good of making a mystery and
keeping me in suspense 1 I must know. If my
father is dying I ought to be with him."

He will never want you any more, Esther,"
said Lydyiard.

He is dead, then ! " exclaimed Esther. " Oh,
he cant be with mother." The first thought
which rose in the poor girl's mind was that
the disturbing presence might have broken upon
the peace of her loved one. " Oh, I don't know
what I am saying," she added piteously, and her
beseeching eyes sought Brand's face. It was like
an appeal for help, and the young man, moved
by a swift impulse of love and compassion, drew

a little nearer and put his arm around her. " I
am here, Esther," he murmured.

"Yes he's dead, Miss Esther," said Joe
solemnly; 'ewe must all on us die, but the end of
some of us is a warning to the rest. I didn't let
on to you at the station how bad Hagartt were, but
I was half afeared that' something might have
happened afore I got back. Things mostly do
happen when you're away, and perhaps it's a
mercy, of a sort, that they do."

It's a mussy as he cut his own throat, and
not hern or our'n," declared Nancy Bride emphatically.


Hold your jaw you — old fool," cried Joe,

I've said it, Joe, many a time over," repeated
Nancy, " and I ain't got no call to hold my jaw
now, as my words have come true. It's a mussy
as we wasn't all murdered in our beds last night,
and you away, and me a heavy body as could t
run to save my life. He were took with the
horrors on him again, soon after you had set off
last evening. The men looked for him when
he were missing this morning — for I shep sound,
thinking he was quiet, and being a heavy body
and found him stretched on the grave yonder
with "

Esther put out her hands in a helpless pleading
way — and Nancy stopped, arrested by her

horror-stricken face. The 'ground seemed to
sway under Esther s feet ; she was barely
conscious of George's tightened clasp. All the
awfulness of the tragedy seemed heightened tenfold
in her imagination, by the mention of her
mother s grave.

Can't you hold your tongue ! " exclaimed
Brand angrily. "Don't you see that you are
making the young lady ill Ly your talk ? "

Nancy turned away ^dth a sotto voce reference
to fine folk and their feelings. She was not an
ill-natured body, or even unsympathetic, after
the manner of her kind. She had been herself
relieved by the timely demise of a drunken
husband, and from her point of view Esther was
to be rather congratulated than otherwise upon
the event that had just taken place. It must
surely be pleasant to live in the midst of
peace and plenty at Bully Wallah than to lead
a wretched uncared-for existence at the pilot
station ; and then the lower classes always find
a ghoul-like delight in piling on the agony — a
death robbed of its details loses half its importance.


You see ! " exclaimed Brand with supreme
disgust, "how it would have been, if we had
not come back with her." He was chafing
Esther's hands, and trying to sooth her into

calmness, for she was now weeping hysterically.
*' Don't cry, darling! " he whispered, *' I am hereto
take care of you. Don't listen to what that
blundering old idiot says."

I'm none so sure that it wasn't best to blurt
it all out in a heap," said Joe. " Women are queer
customers, and they know best how to deal with
one another."

'' Esther ! " said Lydyiard, taking her hand and
gently detaching her from her lover's arms, *come
with me. Ko, Brand, you stay here, you can do
the girl no good. Come, Esther ! "

He led her along the cliff to Bride's hut, which
was at the distance of a few yards from the place
where they had dismounted. He took her into
the living room, and supporting her tottering
frame, placed her upon a chair. Then he peered
about in search of some restorative, and after a
little search found some brandy in a bottle, ina
cupboard beneath the dresser. He poised some
into a pannikin, and mixing it with water, made
her drink it. She had fallen into a state of
hysterical shivering.

Oh, it is dreadful — it's dreadful ! " she kept
repeating at intervals. ''If only he hadn't killed
himself! Oh, do you think that God can ever
forgive him ? "

Esther," said Lydyiard, " if you think over

it, you will see that it is no more wicked to take
one's life in a mad impulse, than to kill body and
soul deliberately with drink."

I can t think'' said Esther, bewildered by
this apparent sophistry. '' I thought that it was
Averse than anything to kill oneself — that one
could never go to Heaven, and that there could
be no repentance or forgiveness. Bad people are
often sorry when they are dying, and at the last
God forgives them, as he forgave the thief. Oh,
I should not have gone away ! Mother will think
that I did not do my best to keep him from
harm. Do you think there is blood there ? "
she asked, pointing to the grave ; " it was there
they found him : Nancy said so, did she not ?
The blood may have soaked in," and then she
began to shiver and cry again.

Leopard forced her to swallow some more
brandy, and then made her lie down upon the
pallet sofa, bringing pillows from Nancy's bed
in the next room, to support her head. He took
off her hat and gloves, and tended her with
the gentleness of a woman. It was wonderful
to see how tender he could be. By and by
she became composed again. " I think that I
had better leave you'' he said, feeling her pulse,
after he had settled her comfortably. " Lie here,
and I will send Nancy down so that she may be

within call, but I will tell her not to disturb you.
You are agitated, and it would be best if you
could keep quite quiet. This will wear off. You
have had much to excite you lately."

Esther coloured. " You know ? " she asked ina
low tone.

Yes, I know," said Lydyiard. " He must
leave you soon. Don't try to detain him. He
ought to be in Sydney where his duty lies. And
you "

I shall live at Bully Wallah, I suppose,"
replied Esther, in a dreary accent of voice. " I
don't want to keep him if it is right that he
should go away — but he will come back again."

"And if he were never to come back,"
said Mr. Lydyiard, " should you grieve very
much ? "

Esther's lip quivered, but she made no answer.

** There ! " exclaimed Lydyiard, afraid of
agitating her. "Don't think of it now. Try
and sleep, if you can."

He left her, and walked to the pilot's
hut, where he found that Bride had already
telegraphed to Frazerville for the coroner, and
one of the sailors had started on Brand's horse
to Bully Wallah, to apprise ]mr. Overstone, the
nearest magistrate, of what had occurred.

Early the following morning, the coroner

arrived from Frazerville in the government steam
launch, and held the necessary inquest upon
Hagartt's body. Such ceremonies are conducted
in the backwoods with an absence of formalities
that considerably expedites their performance.

Mr. Overstone appeared later in the day,
bringing with him an unsalted portion of the
beast he had killed the previous evening, for, as
Mrs. Overstone practically remarked, " Meat is
sustaining in affliction;" and Hagartt's death would
not proportionably lessen the demand. She had
also thrust a Prayer-book upon her lord at the
last moment, so that he might be prepared for
all emergencies — :it being customary in Australia,
when clerical assistance is not forthcoming, to
delegate the discharge of all such duties as
burials and baptisms, to the nearest magistrate.

Esther remained in Joe's hut till the inquest
was over and the coroner had departed. In the
afternoon Mr. Lydyiard came to tell her that
they had decided upon burying the body immediately,
and that if she wished to see her father
again, she had better walk up with him to the
cottage where Hagartt's body still lay. Esther
shrank with involuntary horror from the sight.
"Is it very terrible ? " she asked piteously, of
Lydyiard; "I should not like to see what I
should dream of afterwards. I was dreaming of

him last night as lie " She broke off,

shuddering. " Must I go ? "

*' There is no reason for you to come unless you
wish it," replied Lydyiard, " but there is nothing
which could give you pain or make you more
unhappy. I should not have come for you, had
I not thought that you might by and by feel
glad that you had seen him at his best. It is
right that you should know what he was like
when he was younger and better. The face has
changed, and the sight of your father as he lies
now, may remove the impression you have formed
of him, which might haunt you in the future."

Esther took the arm Mr. Lydyiard offered her,
and, supported by him, walked with faltering
steps along the cliff to her old home. She wept
all the wav, more from the unhinoinor which her
nervous system had undergone, and the prostration
caused by her fit of hysterics the day before,
than from any acute personal grief.

Hagartt's coffin was placed upon the sofa in the
sitting-room, and the rest of the party were all
congregated in the verandah, waiting to follow it
to the grave, which had been dug that morning,
in the inclosure beside that of Esther's mother.
The girl shrank tremblingly from the corpse, but
the first sight of her father's dead face chant-ed
her feeling of dread into one of soft pity and

child-like yearning. Features which in life have
been disfigured by vice or excess, often return
after death to the similitude of what they were
in youth. It was so with Hagartt. All trace of
coarseness had gone from the face, and the beauty
for which it must once have been remarkable,
was now strikingly apparent. As Esther bent
over and kissed his brow, a flood of filial tenderness
swept into her heart ; she could have loved
him so dearly had he been always like this. It
was easier to understand now the infatuation
which had made her mother cling to a drunken
and brutal husband to the last.

While she was weeping quietly as she stood
over the coffin, feeling almost a joy in the tenderness
of her tears, the telegraph-needle began
clicking in the adjoining room. Bride went
in to receive the communication, and Esther,
accustomed to read by sound the telegrams
as they passed through, mechanically translated
the message without fully taking in its
import.

It is for you," said she in a low voice to
Brand, who had followed her in from the verandah,
in the hope of exchanging a few words unheard ;
"it is for you — from Sydney — they want you
back again ; " then realising more thoroughly
how the mandate would immediately affect her,

VOL. L N

she cried out in an irrepressible burst : " Oh ! I
can't bear it — I can't bear it ! "

'^ What is it, my gell ? " cried Mr. Overstone,
looking up from the burial service, which he had
been studying in a confused endeavour to discover
the rules of the church as bearing upon
the question of suicide. " Earth to earth, and
dust to dust. Here the evil and the just.
It's a bad thing to give way ; it don't do any
good in the long run. He used to beat you, you
know ; and you're coming home with me presently
where you'll be well taken care of. Now here's
a thing," exclaimed Mr. Overstone, with more
energy, holding the Prayer-book close to his nose
and spluttering out the following words which
head the burial service : " * Here it is to be noted,
that the office ensuing is not to be used for any
that die unbaptised or excommunicate — or have
laid violent hands upon themselves.' The missus
said I was to read the prayers, but I think I had
better not — under the circumstances, you know ;
it might not be lawful."

Laws ! you ain't a parson," said Nancy in a
tone of derision ; " and it's only for such like,
that them things are written. I've heard afore
now that them as have laid hands on themselves
hadn't ought to be buried in a churchyard ; but
my man, though he died in drink, died natural

and I never took no heed on it. There ain't
no bishops here to find fault ; and it 'ud go again
me to think of a man as I nursed, thrown into
the ground any how, like a dog. Any ways, the
bit of prayer can't hurt you, Muster Overstone,
and you a magistrate — I'd say it, if it's only tolet
the Lord know as we're grateful it wasn't any
fuss than the poor man cutting his own throat.
Think o* that, Esther, and it'll keep you from
taking on too much."

You have got a telegram ? " said Lydyiard,
addressing Brand, whose face had changed considerably
while he was reading the bit of blue
paper that Joe had handed him. '* What is it ?
Are you recalled ? "

'' Yes ; d — n it," exclaimed Brand. '' Head
that."

This was the substance of the telegram.
** Regiment recalled to England. Return at
once to headquarters."

"Well," said Lydyiard, "there's no help for
it — you must go."

The paper was passed round the circle, and
while the others were reading and commenting,
George placed himself at Esther's side, and took
her hand.

^* England ! " she murmured in a tone of deep
distress ; " I thought it would have been Sydney,

N 2

and that you would come back. Oh 1 what am
I to do ? How am I to go on living ? "

"Don't cry, my sweetest," murmured George ;
"it is deuced hard lines for me as well as for
you. Do you think that I don't feel it too ? "

His voice was husky with emotion. The blow
was very bitter to him. For the moment he
felt that it was the worst that could have befallen
him. He pressed her hand convulsively,
forgetting everything but that she was in trouble,
and that he loved her, and was obliged to leave
lier. But immediately after this first shock, he
thrilled all over with that excitement which is
aroused by the mere scent of war, and that
makes men leave wife and children, and volunteer
for active service — and Brand was an Englishman
and a soldier, and had more than once
lamented that he had never been called upon to
go through a campaign. We must all remember
how in the years '74 and '75 there were rumours
of war afloat. In Australia, distance from the
possible scene of action intensified expectation,
and gave significance to the vaguest report.
There was ample food for conjecture in the recall
of a regiment.

Them Eooshians will be knocked into
smithereens," said Joe, impressively, " and serve
'em risfht."

War ! " exclaimed Mr. Overstone, dropping
his Prayer-book, ^' well, it seems likely. England
may be at it now. There's no knowing what
may happen in these days. Things are settled
so quickly. Sedan was fought, and the Prussians
in front of Paris before we knew that war had
begun. Now that was an extraordinary thing,
you know ! ''

I don't think there is likely to be war at
present," said Mr. Lydyiard. '* There was a talk
of recalling Brand's regiment before we left
Sydney."

I think Muster Overstone as we ought to get
on with the berryin'," observed Nancy Bride, to
whom the issues at hand were of greater moment
than those that were doubtful and afar — and
then she was reflecting upon the juicy steak from
Bully Wallah that was to furnish forth Joe's
evening meal.

Yes — yes, my good woman," said Mr.
Overstone, " yes, we had better get on with the
burial — I'll read a prayer. Not the service right
through, you know — in case of there being anything
wrong. Now that's a thing to be seen to.
a special service for suicides you know. It's
taking the future life for granted, in a way
that's trying to the feelings of survivors."

Mr. Overstone shut up his Prayer-book, having

first turned down a leaf at the spot, and then
proceeded with the active business of the funeral,
which occupied his attention and that of the
sailors till the procession got under weigh.
Esther sat apart, pale and motionless, a few
tears falling silently upon her lap, but otherwise
showing no sign of overwhelming sorrow.
She had reached that point in emotional life
when the sufferer is only conscious of a painful
individuality — when sensation becomes so intensified,
that the images of things outward seem
to group themselves without any immediate
reference to the one absorbing grief or interest.
This talk of war and discussion of the burial
service in the very presence of the corpse ; this
ghastly mingling of the tragical and the commonplace
; even the tender words which George
was whispering over her, seemed to have nothing
to do with herself. She hardly realised what he
was saying to her — scarcely knew anything but
that she was suffering. When the time came
for her to move, she took her place behind the
coffin and walked with the rest, but it was
almost as if she had been in a dream.

And so poor Hagartt died and was buried
beside the woman who had loved him ; and the
thoughts of all the men who followed him to
his grave were for the most part more taken up

with Brand's recall and the likelihood of a
European war, than with his sad fate and the
moral to be deduced from it. Only Lydyiard
pondered over the tragedy, and saw in it a
deeper significance than was apparent to the rest.
He had acquired a habit common to those who
have undergone in early life an intellectual or
emotional convulsion, of looking at events from
an impersonal point of view, and of considering
the machinery of circumstance as a spectator might
study the complex workings of a mechanical
instrument, without being absolutely certain of
the result it would accomplish.

"Esther," whispered George as they parted
for the night, " where can I see you, and
when ? We must be alone together tomorrow
I have so much to say — I must talk to you.
Where can we meet ? "

There," said Esther, indicating with a melancholy
wave of her hand the spot which they had
just quitted ; " I will be there — at the grave —
soon after breakfast to-morrow'

THE RECALL OF GEORGE BRAND.

Esther and George met at the double grave
early upon the following morning, and held a
last distracting interview over the newly-turned
sods. It was not the spot George would have
chosen for a love tryst, but Esther saw no
incongruity between the scene and the meeting.
Without actually continuing to cherish her first
fancy that George's advent was in some way referable
to unseen spiritual agencies, she still felt
that there would always remain in her mind a
sadly sweet connection between her memories of
her departed lover, and of her dead mother.

Not that she for a moment contemplated the
necessity of nerving herself to an eternal parting
she had all the belief of a young enthusiastic
girl in constancy as synonymous with love — and
though she feared that George's return might
be long deferred, she still regarded it as a

certainty. But with George it was different.
He had experience enough to know that this
sudden separation from Esther would probably
result in the complete division of their lives,
and also a lurking feeling that circumstance
had removed from his path a possible temptation,
and had solved for him a problem which
he had not moral strength to face. It is always
a relief to weak, self-indulgent natures, when
their course is suddenly decided for them by
a force beyond their power of control. George
felt that had he remained upon the island, Esther,
in her forlorn and homeless condition, would
have been easily persuaded to elope with him
to Sydney. Passion might have got the better
of him, and hurried him into an act from which
his better self — now that he thought of it in
cold blood — recoiled with shame. He was not
given to the contemplation of possible consequences
resulting from the indulgence of his
inclinations, but Esther had touched a holier
chord in his nature than he himself was aware.
He was glad that he had done her no injury.
Quite an heroic sense of virtue took possession
of him, and after the first shock of mental
horror at the depths of baseness to which he
might have fallen, had passed from him, he
began to experience a thrill of self-approval

that was new and delightful, and to fancy
that his departure was rather voluntary than
forced upon him.

It must not, however, be supposed that he at
once took comfort in this cold course of reasoning.
He had felt as wretched as a man can
well feel, for some hours after the receipt of his
commanding officer's telegram ; but a passionate
outburst the previous evening had exhausted the
sources of regret, and with the resilience of a
shallow, excitable temperament, he had turned as a
counterpoise to the thought of new scenes, if there
were war to the excitement of active service, and
the thousand opportunities which would present
themselves of proving what a fine fellow he was ;
and if not, to the chances of removal to pleasant
quarters : to hunting and shooting in the winter,
to meeting of old friends, and to recounting of his
Australian experiences, with a due emphasis upon
his own prowess, in field and drawing-room.

As he walked briskly along the shore, with
a light breeze blowing whiffs of salt air into his
face, his troubles seemed wonderfully lightened.
There passed before his imagination's eye, pleasant
visions of after-dinner sittings over the old Grately
port : of county banquets of which he should
be the hero, and of nice titillation of his vanity
by homage rendered to him, as the travelling

companion of *' Lydyiard, you know, the man who
writes. We went up together to see his new settlement,
an island on the coast of Australia, and had
no end of fun, riding after cattle — bush fires,
and all that sort of thing." The words came quite
glibly to his tongue, and then he thought of a
small vivacious face, and a pair of dancing dark
eyes, and could even hear the inflection of his
pretty cousin Lina's voice : " But, darling boy,
what awful old frumps you must think us who
have scarcely ever been out of England in our
lives." He felt quite a desire to see his cousin
Lina, who was such a jolly girl and up to no end
of larks. He began to wonder whether the
Grately coverts would be well stocked this year,
and whether he should win his bet with
Littleton upon the number of birds he would
Spring down in a day's shoot. On the whole
England was perhaps a. pleasant place than
Australia ; and as for Esther — sweet little creature
! he should always remember her, and think
of her as apart from any other woman he had
ever known ; and if she had only been in his own
station of life, and he could have married her
but that was quite impossible — and it was
noble of him to give her up. There was no
knowing what might have come of the connection,
and he could never have forgiven

himself if he had wronged her . . . but, poor
darling ! how pretty she was — and how fond of
him. He was certain that he could never care
for any one so much again ; but it was no use
making a fuss and funking over the business —
the wrench had to be borne.

This was the conclusion to which, with tightening
heart-strings, George came during his walk
to the grave ; but when he saw Esther with her
little wan face, and quivering lips, and the tears
which suffused her eyes and made them look
larger and softer, without running down and
disfiguring her cheeks or reddening her eyelids,
he could no longer review his position with
philosophic optimism, but felt passionately rebellious
against Fate, and to the full as despairingly
wretched as the most exacting heart could
under the circumstances have desired.

No one who could have seen him then clasping
Esther to his heart, and pouring forth protestations
of love and constancy, would have believed
that only a few moments before he had decided
upon the expediency of separation.

Mouse'' he said, " you won't forget me
will you ? You'll give me a solemn promise that
no matter what happens in the future, you'll
belong to me and to no one else."

"I promise," replied Esther, looking at him

with her great eyes, and thinking within herself
that there was no need for him to exact such
a vow.

George took a ring from his little finger — a
plain band of gold with three diamonds in a
gipsy setting — and placed it upon the third
finger of her left hand.

This is to be a sign that we are as good as
married, Esther. Whenever you look at it you
must think of me, and remember that you have
given yourself to me. Do you understand,
Mousie ? And I'll come back for you as soon
as I can. Never mind if you don't hear from
me very often — I'm a shocking fellow to write,
I hate it so — but whatever happens, you belong
to me, recollect — and I am certain to come back
to you. Then we will go away together, and
live in England, at Grately perhaps, and we
shall be so happy together."

The repetition of lovers' vows suggests painful
reflections to the observer of life. So much freshness
of passion and sincerity of motive seem at
first to teach a greater faith in the stability of
human affection, and it is sad to have forced
upon one the conviction, sure to come later, that
aU this purity of sentiment and intensity of
feeling is but as so much froth upon the stream
of wasted emotion.

Fate was cruel to the lovers that day. As
they sat together upon a little knoll above the
grave, with the smiling ocean stretched before
them, interchanging despairing vows, and prolonging
with an intensity of enjoyment that was
almost pain, the few hours they might spend
together, a steamer with its long trail of smoke,
appeared large and distinct between the sea and
the sky. George was the first to see it, and
clutching Esther's hand eagerly, he lifted it,
pointing out towards the horizon.

Mousie," he exclaimed. '* Do you see
that ? We must go back. We must go back
at once."

He was so excited that he seemed almost to
forget that the steamer was the merciless Fate
which was to bear him away from her.

She's a large one," cried George. " I wonder
if she is bound to Sydney. It would be just my
luck if she were. Oh, I wonder if they'll signal
from the Cape. I think she must be the mail boat.
It is southward she is going, Esther, isn't it 1 "

'* Yes, it is south," said Esther, in a choked
voice.

Come," said George, rising. '' We must hurry
back and tell Bride to signal her. Come, darling.
Oh, don't cry, I can't bear to see you crying —
it unmans me."

He took her hand, and hurried her honor the
beach. He was full of eagerness and excitement
she, limp and despairing. He pulled her over
the stones, and together they skimmed rapidly
along the sand ; George looking back every now
and then when he felt her drooping, to say, " Oh,
don't cry, darling — don't cry, Mousie."

When they reached the pilot station they
found the sailors all on the qui vive. The steamer
was indeed the mail boat bound south, and Bride,
acting upon Lydyiard's orders, had signalled
her to stand to. There was no time to be lost.
Brand hurriedly crammed his things into his
portmanteaus while the sailors were getting out
the boat, bade Lydyiard and Mr. Overstone goodbye,
and left a substantial reminder of his visit
in Nancy Bride's pocket. Then he kissed Esther
in a last impassioned embrace, and was finally
rowed ofi' to the steamer, disappearing in the
same sudden manner as that in which he had
arrived.

Poor Esther shut herself up in a state of
hysterical collapse. She lay on her bed and
cried, kissing the ring George had given her,
and then hiding it away in her bosom. She
pressed her hand upon her heart, and whispered
to herself in her desolation, as in her first
paroxysm of gratitude ; " Oh, he is so good. I

do love him. Oh, what shall I do 1 What shall
I dor'

If there had been any specific task to occupy
her thoughts and energies, she could have borne
her grief better, but there seemed nothing before
her but the dull performance of a round of distasteful
duties, and a deadness of that emotive life
which had lately been called into such vigorous
play. When a crushing sorrow befalls the young,
it is to them as though the end of the world
had come. Experience is the great teacher of
fortitude. Those who are old enough to take a
retrospect of mental crises through which they
have passed, can look back and feel that they
have enjoyed much that was left ; but the young
have not this consolation, and the waves of present
suffering seem to engulph them too deeply
to allow a glimpse of land beyond.

No one, except perhaps Lydyiard, saw in her
grief anything more than what would naturally
be felt by a young girl whose only parent had died
under circumstances so horrible. Mr. Overstone
was anxious to return to Bully Wallah, but
George's departure had delayed his own, and then
he meant to take Esther back with him. There
were several matters to be arranged on her behalf,
and an examination to be made of the pilot's
papers, and of such property as he had left, a

duty which naturally devolved upon Mr. Over-stone
as a magistrate, and as Estherss only
protector.

The search was made quickly, and nothing
found except an old tin desk beneath Hagartt's
bed, which promised to contain whatever instructions
he might have left, or information
concerning his antecedents — for there was a
general feeling afloat that the pilot had not always
been what he had seemed. Mr. Overstone
and Lydyiard seated themselves at the table with
the box between them, both with an uneasy
feeling of a mystery to be solved ; but with this
difference, that whereas in the squatter's mind
there was only a vague expectancy, in that of
Mr. Lydyiard there was an almost certain conviction
of the result of the investigation.

'* I always said there was something queer
about Hagartt," said Mr. Overstone, fumbling
with the key in the lock. 'now there were
several things I couldn't make out at all ; once
or twice, when I was working at my pamphlets,
he helped me to a classical quotation that told
well ; Tm not much of a Latin scholar myself.
Now, that's puzzling, you know. Where the
deuce did he learn Greek and Latin 1 Men ain't
as a rule educated in that way for the pilot
service. From little things that he has dropped

VOL. T.

when he was half tight, I'm pretty certain that
he was once in the navy, and I'll bet my hat

that he didn't teach himself to draw Hullo !

here's something addressed to me."

Mr. Overstone held up, and proceeded to open,
a bulky envelope which lay on the top of the
desk. It contained a letter to himself, and a
sealed inclosure, which the squatter wonderingly
spelled out, to : —

*sir Emetics Isherwood, Bart.,

"Bar Wold House, Bar Wold,

Woodfordshire, England."

Eh ! now that's a curious thing ! " exclaimed
Mr. Overstone ; " well I'll see what he has to
say ; " and he read the following letter, which
was dated from the pilot station about eighteen
months previously :

'•' My dear Sir,

It has been borne in upon me very forcibly
of late, that were I to die suddenly, my daughter
Esther would be thrown destitute upon the tender
mercies of a world which, though overflowing
with benevolence towards the bereaved rich, has
usually a very small measure of compassion to
bestow upon the poor.

You may reasonably remark that my solicitude

is timed late, aud that it would have been
more to the purpose had I sought to lay up some
provision for her during my life. I have never
made any profession of absorbing attachment to
my only child. She reminds me unpleasantly
of her mother, whose life I ruined, and her very
existence is a standing reproach to me ; but even
the worst of us have some innate sense of justice,
and I would therefore do what now lies in my
power to mitigate the unfortunate position in
which I have placed her. You will probably
have guessed that I once occupied a superior
position in society. I glean as much from
remarks you have sometimes let fall, though 1
am obliged to confess that your penetration
deserves credit, for I have taken every pains to
obliterate the hall-mark of gentility. I do not
mean to lower myself still further by detailing
the steps of my degradation. It has been my
object to efface myself from the recollection of
society, and I have refrained from obtruding
myself or my belongings upon the notice of my
relatives ; but now that death seems to stare mein
the face, I am stirred by a remorseful pity for
Esther, and venture to ask for her, kindness that
I should never have claimed for myself In the
inclosed letter I have committed Esther to the
protection of my only brother, Sir Melius



Sherwood. Some fraternal feelings may prompt
him to offer her the place of a dependant in his
house. It is bitter bread, but the sweetest that
I can bespeak for her.

I must beg you, if you are at Bully Wallah
at the time of my death, to forward this letter
to Sir Emilius with a few words confirmatory of
the statement I have made of my mode of life
for the last ten years, and any information you
can give as to the manner of my decease. I
have no hesitation in farther asking you to give
Esther a home till a reply be received from her
uncle. Should it be favourable, he will doubtless
instruct you as to her future, and if, on the
(contrary, he refuses to acknowledge any claim
she may have upon him, I shall have done for
her what I can, and must leave her to take her
chance of good or bad fortune, as other penniless
girls have done before her. In conclusion, I have
to beg that you wil not inform Esther of her
parentage till an answer be received from Sir
Emilius.

I am,

Your obedient servant,

Egbert Isherwood."

Eobert Isherwood," repeated Mr. Over-stone.
" Now that's a curious letter, a queer

start altogether ! Caa you make head or tail
of it ! "

It is only what I have known all along," said
Lydyiard incautiously ; then pulling himself up
he added, "that is, I have heard of the Sherwood
; they are a well known Woodfordshire
family, and I was aware that there had been
a scapegrace brother. This Robert Isherwood
is of course the man."

What do you suppose brought him to Australia
? " asked Mr. Overstone. *' Do you fancy that
he was transported ? The idea occurred to me
when I heard that he had been in Perth. He
let that drop one day."

I cannot say," replied Mr. Lydyiard.

He may have run through his money and
taken to drink," continued Mr. Overstone reflectively.
" There's many a well-born man goes
to the devil in Australia, and then he is ashamed
to face his people, and takes the first thing that's
offered him. Sir Emilius Isherwood, Bart. ! Well
it'll be a fine thing for Esther ef her uncle takes
her up, but it's as likely as not that he'll object
to having an unknown niece foisted upon him.
Swells aren't so ready to harbour their poor
relations ef they can get out of having anything
to say to them, and tells are awkward articles
to have thrown upon one's hands. I daresay the

end of it '11 be that the missus will keep her at
Bully Wallah, and give her the babies to mind."

Mr. Overstone," said Lydyiard, *' before
you found this letter I had been considering
Esther's future, and had almost resolved that
it should be my care. I have no children — no
near relations — and the girl interests me. If
Sir Emilius Isherwood refuses to acknowledge
her, I will send her to school, and take measures
to provide for her."

Mr. Overstone pushed back his chair, and
stared in some surprise at his companion.

'• That's a liberal offer, Mr. Lydyiard, and not
at all to be expected of you. I should say, ef
you asked my advice — a gell is a responsibility
that's not easy to be got rid of; think well
before you load yourself with it. And you're
young enough — you might marry, you know ;
and women are a little awkward in their ways
with one another. But perhaps it's another plan
that you've got in sour mind. I've heard of
middle-aged men educating young tells for their
wives. You don't mean that, do you ? "

'* No," said Lydyiard with a melancholy smile.
'' I never thought of marrying any one, least of
all Esther. I shall be sixty my next birthday,
and there's nothing further from my mind than
marriage."

*sto be sure," said Mr. Overstone, 'rit 'ud
beat me to find out what you or any one else
could see in Esther to want to marry her fora
scraggy, big-eyed thing ! That's not my style,
Mr. Lydyiard."

I am a lonely man," continued Lydyiard, *' and
my life has been embittered from many causes.
I am afraid that if I do not create for myself
some close individual interest, I shall feel in my
old age the need of a purpose in existence nearer
to me than the general good. I have a little
money, and I had rather adopt a girl than a
boy ; women are less apt to get into mischief."

'that's true enough," said Mr. Overstone.
Well, Mr. Lydyiard, ef Esther's uncle won't
have anything to say to her — which remains to
be seen yet — it 'ud be a very good thing for
the gell if you were to adopt her, and if you
mean fair and honourable by her, as I believe
you do, I'll say nothing against it. Of course
her father's wishes are bound to be attended to,
and I'll write to Sir Emilius Isherwood at once.
We'll wait and see what he says about it, and
I'll let you know. I'm not wanting to get rid of
the gell. I'm fond of Esther in a way, and I'd
like to do the best I could for her. You see she's
left on my hands as it were, and I feel morally
responsible that no harm comes to her. I daresay

we should find it a bit inconvenient to have
a gell like that always dragging on at Bully
Wallah ; she is a dreamy thing and has no pious
at all. Not but what the missus would soon put a
little of that into her. As for her marrying, why,
ef a bachelor were to take my opinion, he'd lookout
for more flesh and blood and a deal more
energy. That's the way I went to work, and
I have never regretted it. I had got a little
money together and had bought this station, but
somehow I wasn't comfortable ; the buttons were
always coming off my shirts, and the place looked
in a muck. So I invited Gritty — she was a Fra-servile
gell — to come across with her mother
and have a look at the island ; and when I got
her here, I asked her plump and plain ef she
liked the place, and ef she'd marry me. ' Yes,
Andrew,' said she, and no nonsense over it, ' I
will, and I'll make you comfortable ; ' and I can
tell you she has been as good as her word. The
amount she has saved me in moleskin trousers
alone you wouldn't believe. Now that's a point
you should caution your selectors upon, Vir.
Lydyiard ; it's no good their bringing out weedy
wives, they'll be sorry for it ef they do."

Mr. Overstone had been turning over the
papers in the desk during this discursive
harangue, and had found at the bottom a small

packet of letters in a woman's handwriting, tied
together with a piece of red tape. They were
not endorsed, and he handed the bundle to
Lydyiard. ** I guess these are from Esther's
mother. She sets a great store by her mother's
memory, and I suppose ought to have them."

Do you think," said Lydyiard, with a slight
but visible hesitation, '^ that in the face of her
father's request that she should not be made
acquainted with her parentage, it would be right
to let her read these letters, without being sure
that they contain no reference to the pilot's past
history ? "

I daresay you are right," said Mr. Overstone.
*' It would be as well to look over them. There
can't be any secrets, and if there are why we are
safe, you know. They'd be a comfort to the poor
gell, eh, Mr. Lydyiard ? Will you glance over
them ? It'll be more in your line than mine,
I fancy."

Mr. Lydyiard looked fixedly for a few moments
at the superscription upon the uppermost envelope,
but a film seemed to rise between his eyes and
the paper, and he turned his head away. " Yes,
yes," he said hurriedly, " I'll glance over them
if I may — if you think proper. It would be
well to ascertain that there are no allusions — that
there is nothing in them which would violate her

father's wish. If there be anything painful or
dishonourable in the early history of her parents,
it is surely best that Esther should not know it."

It's as much your business as mine," said
Mr. Overstone, " since you are willing to adopt
the gell ; so take the letters, and look them over.
That is all now. There is nothing here ; no
memorandum of money saved — that all went to
the public-house — no further instructions. These
are Government papers, which had better be
handed over to Joe Bride. He is sure to be put
into Hagartt's place."

Lydyiard took the letters, and Mr. Overstone
locked up the desk, and placed it among the
baggage which was to be conveyed upon the
pack-horse to Bully Wallah. Joe Bride promised
to take care of the pictures ; it was thought
that the sale of the furniture might bring insufficient
to buy Esther two or three black
gowns, and such like necessaries. This was all
the patrimony she had to expect, and she would
have entered Mr. Overstone's family destitute
indeed, had not Lydyiard, as an earnest of future
intentions, handed the squatter a cheque for a
hundred pounds upon Esther's account.

"It may be held in reserve," he said, "till Sir
Emilius's answer comes. If she goes to England
let it be spent upon her outfit, and if any remains

it may be given to her for her private use. There
is no knowing what emergencies may arise. You
will let me know at once what is Sir Emilius's
reply to his brother's letter. Should he disown
the appeal, Esther's future will be my charge,
and I will at once communicate with you. "

Mr. Overstone pocketed the cheque with some
mental wonderment over the generosity of his
eccentric guest. It was a matter beyond his
comprehension, but he told his wife of the discovery
of Esther's parentage, and of the interest
she had excited in Lydyiard. In consequence,
the girl entered her new home under more
favourable auspices than would have been possible
had she been completely dependent upon
the Overstones' bounty. It is only fair to state
that the latter were entirely above mercenary
considerations, and expected to reap no future
benefit from any kindness shown to their young
charge ; but it is not in human nature to class
in the same category the niece of a baronet
and possible heiress of an eccentric man of
letters, and the destitute daughter of a drunken
pilot.

GHOSTS OF THE PAST.

Lydyiard rode back to Bully Wallah with
the packet of letters in his breast pocket. He
could hardly define to himself the curious emotion
with which the possession of these time-stained
papers thrilled him ! It was so long since his
wife had left him — to the reader, his relations
with Esther's mother can be no mystery — that
the once strong personal feeling he had entertained
for her had resolved itself into a powerful,
but passive abstract influence.

Now, the sight of her handwriting brought
crowding upon him a host of sensations, some
new, some long dormant. He recalled her to
his mind as she had been in the old days, and
then tried, but with no success, to reconcile
that impression of her with the one that Joe
Bride's description and Esther's revelations had
produced.

Though he and his wife had lived together
but for a comparatively short time, and with
no harmony in their marriage, they had unconsciously
acted and re-acted upon each other.
No event in Lydyiard's existence had so
strongly influenced his inner life as his wife's
desertion of him. It had changed his moral
attitude towards society, not in one great revolution,
but in swiftly succeeding stages of
resentment, scorn, then doubting inquiry, and
distrust of his own infallibility, finally, conviction
of error, and remorse. Time, and the alteration
in his religious opinions, had softened down these
turbulent emotions into a sorrowful passivity.
There had been a period in his life when he
had wished vainly to discover his lost wife,
and to atone in some way for a wrong which
he fancied that he had committed against her.
Now he had found her, when action was impossible,
when the grave had closed over her,
and when all that he could gather about her
life and feelings conjured up an entirely different
image to any he had pictured to himself,
and one which it was impossible to reconcile with
his old idea of her.

He was not angry with her, or even with his
rival. He had no jealousy in his heart, no resentment
— no very keen emotion of any kind ;

it was this which puzzled him — his inner being
seemed to have been thrown off its balance
Everything was past, like a dream that has
been told, and he was only conscious now of
a confused tingling of pain, like that which is
felt physically when a limb which has been
numbed for a time, awakens to sensation.

At that time, Esther — present and living —
seemed more to him than the memory of his
wife. At first he had tried to steel himself
against her : then he had found that indifference
was impossible, and he had kept looking
at the girl, and thinking to himself what a joy
it would be to him, had he now a daughter like
her to comfort his solitary old age. He felt
very lonely, and in spite of his schemes of general
utility, his life lacked individual interest.

He was almost angry with himself for being
attracted towards Esther. Why should he feel
any affection for the child of his enemy ? Why
should he wish to adopt her? It would be
more natural to take up a waif from the streets.
Would she not always be a reminder to him of
past pain ? Would it not be more for the
good of humanity that his fund of benevolence
should diffuse itself in more widespread channels
'? Might he not again be in danger of
pinning his happiness upon a woman 1 Yet
while he reasoned to himself in this way, he

found himself almost hoping that Sir Emilius
Isherwood's answer might be unfavourable, and
that he might after all be allowed to charge
himself with Esther's future. It would almost
clearly be his duty to do so, should her father's
relatives disown her.

He began planning how he would educate her,
and develop her faculties so that they might
all tend towards the formation of a perfect
character, and he went on speculating upon her
disposition and intellectual bent. She was in
many respects quite unlike her mother ; already
he saw that. Her nature was more contemplative,
less passionate. There was the same disinterestedness,
but not the same capacity of self-abandonment.


Then he thought of George, and quickly made
his mind easy upon that score. Esther might be
unhappy for a time, while her romantic conception
of him lasted, but it would grow dim with
time and absence. Their natures were clearly so
incapable of assimilation that she would gradually
drift away from him even in thought, and her
childish love dream would relax any real hold
upon her that it might now have.

It was late in the evening when they reached
Bully Wallah, and after he had bidden the Over-stones
good-night and had gone to his own

room, Lydyiard trimmed the little kerosene
lamp, shading it from the wind which blew in
through the open window, and seating himself
upon the side of his bed, drew out the packet of
letters from his pocket. His hand trembled with
excitement as he opened out the sheets, and an
indescribable feeling of awe seemed to creep over
him, as the fancy struck him that those two
ghosts — that of his dead wife, and of the
suicide Hagartt might be in the room with him
witnessing this violation of their mutual confidences.
This dimly realised consciousness of
a half-revealed presence comes often as forcibly
to the mind of an atheist as to that of a believer
in a spiritual world. Lydyiard paused a moment
and asked himself whether it were not a breach
of honour to read those letters, but the longing
was so intense upon him that all such scruples
vanished before the greatness of the temptation.
Who is so interested, or so safe as I am ? " he
said, half aloud, and then laid out the yellowed
sheets one by one, taking them in the order of
their dates.

As both Mr. Lydyiard had feared, and Mr.
Overstone had vaguely suspected, the letters gave
various clues to the past of Hagartt and his so-called
wife — a past totally unknown to Esther.
It became clear upon their perusal that, not long

after the beginning of his connection with the
mother of Esther, Robert Isherwood had forged
the name of a friend and had been transported
for the offence. Some of the letters had been
addressed to him during the term of penal servitude
when Esther's mother, bearing her then
unborn babe, had followed him to Australia,
and was earning her living as a workwoman in
Perth. Some again had been written after the
expiration of his sentence, before his removal to
another colony, and his appointment at Mung
Island, and others from the island itself
during the pilot's temporary absences at Frazer-ville.


The letters were the production of an educated
and extremely emotional woman, whose impetuous
nature had fretted against legitimate
restraint, and had yet found a perverse satisfaction
in sacrificing itself at the command of
passion.

It was curious and melancholy to note the
various phases through which the undisciplined
yearning spirit had passed. First, the mistaken
but enthusiastic determination to live nobly by
another moral code than that sanctioned by
society ; the evident but scarcely acknowledged
disappointment ; the stand against mistrust, so
pathetic in its resolution not to admit conviction ;

VOL. T. p

the struggle against belief in moral degradation ;
the clinging to hope and softening of the fierce
nature under the influence of maternity ; finally,
the resignation of a crushed spirit which still
held despairingly to the remnant of duty left as
its support. Through all, there seemed no impulse
to break the chain voluntarily assumed.
It was in keeping with the character, that
once having renounced a moral bond imposed
by law and religion, it should bend, even to
breaking, beneath a far harder yoke deliberately
incurred.

Of the letters, and there were twelve, it seemed
expedient to give only two to Esther. In the
first, the writer described her child, its babyish
beauty and pretty ways, and dwelt upon the
absorption of her own sorrows into the fresh
life of the little one.

Lydyiard brushed his eyes with his hand, and
groaned as he read twice over, the pathetic
sentences.

"If our child had lived," he murmured to
himself, " she would never have left me."

". . . . My baby seems to have changed my
nature, and I do not fret as I used against the
bars which narrow my life, and make it seem all
the harder because I can see the possible Joy
beyond. We women who have once scorned

motherhood, recognise in it when we taste its
fulness, our sweetest destiny. When I tremble
at the delicacy of my little one, I comfort myself
with the thought that a child in heaven
brings God nearer to a mother upon earth."

There was a paragraph in the second letter
over which Lydyiard hesitated, but which, he
reflected, would carry none but the superficial
meaning to Esther. It ran thus : —

". . . . Do not torture yourself with the fear
that your evil habits will drive me to leave you.
You have no claim upon me or upon the child
which I might not readily throw off, and you
cannot compel me to live with you. But there
is a more binding yoke than that which law
imposes. I know now, though I did not always
think so, that the obligations which we have
incurred in the past, are chains forged whether
we will or no, to bind the future. We cannot
escape from them ; they hang upon us, and make
life a burden and a misery. When one forsakes
the standard of duty, there seems nothing left.
You are my duty, and I must cling to you,
though you are killing me. It would have been
better for me if I had been true. Wrong doing
brings its punishment, and remorse kills the
sweetness of life. It is better to be true at
the cost of suffering, than to be false to a vow

P 2

that one has taken upon one's-self. If I live to
see Esther grown-up, I will teach her so that
fidelity may be the ruling principle of her life.
I will teach her to renounce everything that
seems sweeter than duty. The sweetness cannot
remain. There must always be a curse with it,
and the curse clings till death. ."

Lydyiard did not give the letters to Esther
till just before his departure from the island.
Then, as he was bidding her good-bye, he placed
them in her hand.

Esther," he said, " these were found among
your father's papers. They may be a comfort to
you ; and if the time should ever come when
you are inclined to judge your mother harshly,
read them asrain, and you will realise what she
suffered."

Esther looked at him with blank surprise.

My mother !" she repeated, wondering within
herself how it would ever be possible for her
to judge harshly of the presiding saint of her
girlhood.

*' I mean," said Lydyiard, "that no child can
comprehend the inner life of its parents, and
you may be glad by and by to have those
letters."

He took her hand, and looked down upon her
face with a curious mixture of tenderness and

self-repression in his own. They were standing
in the garden, and the child Bessie was clinging:
to Esther's knees, while overhead the sun
streamed through the interlacing orange boughs,
and shone upon Esther's head and upon the
£golden locks of little Bessie.

"I am going to leave you, Esther," said
Lydyiard. " I am sorry to go away, though I
am glad to think that you are settled h<^re
among people who will treat you kindly. You
may think the Overstones practical, and somewhat
rough, but they mean well towards you,
and you must not think of leaving them till,
as may happen six months hence, your future is
decided for you. Trust in that future, Esther,
and do not dwell upon the past. Give yourself
to active employment. It is best for you now'

She looked at him wistfully, as though ^^hv
would, take comfort from his words.

*' I know of whom you are thinking," he said
hurriedly ; " you are thinking of George ; but try
to bear in mind that a man is not like a woman
he forgets more easily. Esther," he added,
prompted by an impulse to ascertain her feelings,
should he decide upon adopting her ; " it
is possible that you and I may be brought into
more intimate connection with each other. Should
you dislike its being so ? "

I don't think that I understand, sir," said
Esther, bewildered by his words.

''If we were to live together'' said Lydyiard.
'' If I were your guardian — would that be unpleasant
to you ? "

Esther's face brightened as though a gleam of
sunshine had flashed across it.

*' Oh, no, no ! " she exclaimed.

'rit is only an idea," said Lydyiard, alarmed
lest he had said too much. " Don't think of it,
or attach any weight to my words. I am going
back to England, and when the time comes, Mr.
Overstone will tell you what you ought to do.
Good-bye, Esther."

He kissed her forehead, and was turning away,
when little Bessie cried — " Oo naughty man to
go away — me want to kiss oo too."

Lydyiard took the child in his arms and kissed
her with tenderness. Then he went into the
yard, where a black boy was holding his horse,
with the valise strapped on to the saddle.
Esther watched him over the low garden fence,
riding away in the direction of the pilot station,
and felt utterly desolate and sick at heart.

The future, with its vague possibilities and
family secrets, was hidden from Esther. She had
no knowledge of what might befall her, to sustain
her under her sorrow ; and the present, with its

round of homely duties, seemed all the more
distasteful after her late glimpse of Paradise.
Had not her mind been so entirely filled with
thoughts of George Brand, she would have
pondered over Mr. Lydyiard's parting words and
would have speculated upon what Fate had in
store for her. As it was, she was too preoccupied
to observe that after the first four
months folio wing her father's death, both Mr.
and Mrs. Overstone looked eagerly for the
English mail, and whispered together as though
they had a secret in common. But as each one
came in bringing no letter from George, she
settled down to a despairing endurance of her
desolation till the next post arrived with its
freight of hope and disappointment.

She was considerably surprised when, one
morning, Mr. Overstone came to her with an
English letter in his hand, and informed her that
he had received instructions from her uncle to
send her as soon as possible to England.

'* My uncle ! " exclaimed Esther, in blank
astonishment. *' I have no uncle."

"Yes, you have, my dear, and I have known
it ever since your father died ; but you weren't
to be told anything about it till the Baronet
had made up his mind whether he would acknowledge
you or not. There's the letter, you

may read it presently. I'm afraid your father
was a bad lot, but that's not a thing for me
to concern myself with. You're a lucky gell
Esther — niece to a real baronet, and he has
come down very handsome with a cheque for
your passage to England."

Am I to go to England '? " cried Esther.
*soh ! do you mean that I am to go to England ? "
Already her imagination had spanned the sea
which separated her from George, and she had
no thought for her unknown relative or his
disposition towards her.

"Now that's a thing," said Mr. Overstone.
that does not happen to every young woman,
and I'm pleased to see that you are grateful for
your good fortune. I've heard from Mr. Lydyiard
too, and his colony is to be settled the end of this
year. I'm thinking of taking the missus down
to Brisbane for a trip, and I'll talk the whole
thing over with Cleaver. He has a sound head,
has Cleaver, though we aren't one upon all
points. I want to get up my views about coal,
for I'm certain there's a fortune to be made that
way out of Bully Wallah, if one only knew how
to set about it. And now that's a thing,"
continued Mr. Overstone, spluttering in his excitement,
" I was reading the other day that
charcoal would bring back the flavour of salt when

it had left it — and though, as the missus says, it
is flying in the face of the Bible, which says that
once salt has lost its savour, wherewith shall
it be salted ? Tm not a man to pin my views
even upon the New Testament itself — and ef
there's any truth in the discovery, Til work it
out and prove it in the House before I've
done with it."

ESTHER ARRIVES IN LONDON.

It was a dull October morning, and the Lass
of Goitre steamship, from Brisbane to London
direct, had just anchored in the docks. Among
her passengers was Esther Hagartt, or Isherwood
as she was now called, who, in obedience to her
uncle's summons, had travelled from Australia
to England, and who, in a state of excited
expectancy just merging into disappointment,
was standing upon the deck.

Sir Emilius Isherwood had behaved liberally,
far more so, in the opinion of most people, than
could have been expected. It was impossible to
say whether dormant fraternal feeling, or a sense
of justice had actuated him ; but at any rate, as
has been seen, he had recognised Esther's claim
upon him, and had responded to her dead father's
appeal by a cheque for her passage money, and

an intimation that she was to be sent to school
in England at his expense.

Further than this he did not explain his
intentions ; and as though shrinking from a
painful subject, he had asked no questions as
to Hagartt's antecedent history, or particulars of
Esther's mother. He appeared to have accepted
his niece's existence as an unpleasant fact, to be
dealt with in the least annoying manner possible
; and in the letter which Mr. Overstone gave
Esther to read made only a slight allusion to
'ran unpleasant affair," which had banished his
brother from England. Therefore, though there
was a strong impression of disgrace as connected
nth the story of Eobert Isherwood in the minds
of both Esther and Mr. Overstone, there was no
actual evidence to confirm it.

Soon after the receipt of Sir Emilius Isherwood's
instructions, Mr. and Mrs. Overstone had taken
Esther to Brisbane, had spent a portion of Mr.
Lydyiard's hundred pounds upon an outfit of
questionable taste, and had finally placed heron
board the Lass of Gowrie, in temporary
charge of the captain. Mr. Overstone also wrote
to Lydyiard and acquainted him with the tenor
of Sir Emilius's letter.

To Esther the thought of her changed prospects
was sweet. She was going to that earthly

paradise of which she had dreamed ; and surely
her transition to England could not fail to bring
her nearer to Brand, This was the point to
which all her hopes of the future tended. She
had received but one short letter from him shortly
before leaving the island. It had been bald and
unsatisfactory, giving her no definite information
as to his movements, abounding in vague protections
and endearments, and winding up with
the following doubtful sentence, " Don't set your
heart upon hearing from me too often, darling.
Tm afraid that I am an awfully bad fellow in
some ways ; you must not make me out to bea
hero, and Tm a horrid bad hand at letter writing,
but, whatever happens, I am your devoted
George."

These words gave Esther some pangs of disappointed
affection, but then, woman-like, she
reflected that perhaps it was George's modesty
which caused him to depreciate himself, and he
had warned her that he was a bad correspondent.
Her inexperience made her uncertain as to what
was expected of them in their relative positions.
She did not know how often she might reasonably
hope to hear from him, or indeed whether
she herself ought to write to him, and if so, in
what terms her letters should be couched. Her
natural modesty made her recoil from doing

anything which might seem maidenly, and she
was utterly ignorant of the limits to which her
reserve should extend. It must be remembered
that she had not that experience in affairs of the
heart which a boarding-school education usually
imparts to young ladies.

She had written to him twice to the address of
his bankers in Sydney, whence he had told her
all communications would be forwarded to him.
The first letter was sent shortly after her father's
death ; the second, just before her departure from
Australia. To this latter she had of course
received no reply, but she calculated that it
would reach him just in time to enable him
to meet her on board the Lass of Gowrie, and
to bid her welcome to England.

She had been thinking of this meeting during
the whole of her homeward voyage, trembling
with shy delight at the thought of being again
pressed in his arms, rehearsing her own timid
avowals of happiness at their reunion, and picturing
the rapturous joy with which he would
greet her.

They would meet now, she thought, upon different
ground. Though in her humility she could
in no way think of herself but as his inferior,
and adore him for having stooped to love her,
there was comfort in the reflection that it was no

longer a case of King Cophetua and the beggar
maid. She was as well-born as himself ; and as
for her educational deficiencies, they were certainly
grave ; but he had said he did not care
about his wife being very talented, and she hoped
by perseverance and application to place herself
ere long upon a par with other English girls —
perhaps not quite on the same level as the cousin
of whom he had spoken to her, but as near it ashe
would consider necessary.

Poor Esther had the vaguest conception
of her future life. All her ideas of English
society had been gleaned from the very few
books that had fallen in her way, and from
George's conversation. Their paucity may therefore
be imagined. She believed that it would
be the exact antipodes of her previous existence.
She had a dim notion that ladies and gentlemen
talked in a superfine manner, in Grandisonian
English, to the use of which she had never been
able to attain ; and that the former, after the
completion of their education, wore trailing silk
gowns and sat sith their hands before them,
or read all day. They were, in her imagination,
far too exalted to condescend to household
occupation, or to needlework, which it must be
confessed Esther's own soul abhorred ; and her
inexperience was unable to gauge the importance

of any other employment for feminine brains
or fingers.

Esther thought that she herself could never
feel dull if she might only read, or wander about
and dream. English scenery was in her mind a
jumble of green fields, buttercups and daisies —
of picturesque wintry landscapes, with a robin
in the foreground, and a spire in the distance,
such as she had seen on Christmas cards, or on
the wrappers which had enfolded their tea and
sugar from Frazerville. She could not settle
satisfactorily what part she herself was to play
against such a background, but she had all a
girl's large faith in the capabilities of the future,
and was too ignorant to be alarmed as to the
figure she might cut in civilised society.

She began to feel very nervous when the
steamer arrived at Greenwich, and she saw that
some of the passengers went on shore there, or
were met by their friends. Finding that no one
had come for her, she was at first a little disappointed,
then relieved at the respite granted
her from the embarrassing introduction to her
new relatives. She wondered whether they
would all be standing in a row upon the wharf
to receive her, as she had seen people stand in
Brisbane when they expected friends by any of
the steamers. All kinds of ridiculous possibilities

floated through her mind. She speculated as to
whether she had an aunt or any girl cousins,
and as to what she was to call Lady Isherwood
and Sir Emilius.

She considered these difficulties during a wakeful
night passed on the river, with strange noises
all round her, and lights gleaming dimly through
a thick mist, while the voices of boatmen and the
noise of fog-horns disturbed the stillness. The
problems were far from solution when, early the
next morning, in the grey chill mist, the Lass of
Gowrie was moored in the docks. Esther stood
for some time against the bulwarks of the vessel,
with fluttering heart and tightly clasped hands,
beset by importunate cabman and porters, till
she was tired of shaking her head to the repeated
questions, " Any luggage, miss ? " " Want a cab,
miss ? " " Want to pass your boxes, miss ? " that
were shouted in her ear.

Her eves vainly pierced the crowd, searching
for a glimpse of Brand, whom she had fully expected
to see waiting till the vessel should be
moored before rushing on board and receiving
her in his arms : but George was not there, or
apparently any one else interested in her arrival

One bv one her fellow passengers were welcomed
by eager friends, or walked calmly on
shore bv themselves. The crowd thickened, and

the din increased, but still Esther waited fruitlessly.
Sir Emilius could not be there. Such a
great personage, Esther thought, would surely
have pushed his way on board before this ; and
George had not come to meet her, that was
evident. Perhaps her letter had not reached
him in time, though she had closely calculated
when it would arrive in England. Perhaps he
was abroad. The war of which they had talked,
might have taken him away. He might be
fighting now — killed, perhaps —

Esther shuddered at the thought, and cried
in forlornness and desperation, while the people,
hurrying to and fro intent upon their own business,
brushed against her without begging her
pardon. At last a sailor, touched by her tears,
paused to say, *' You had better go down to the
saloon, miss, till some one comes for you ; I
suppose that you expect to be met. The deck
is no place for ladies now."

Some one ought to meet me," said poor
Esther, looking gratefully at the sailor through
her tears ; "I don't even know where Fm to go.
I cannot think why there is no one here. I'm
going to my uncle, Sir Emilius Isherwood, and
I have never seen him or he me. Perhaps he
has missed me through not knowing what I am
like. Do you think it could have been so ? "

VOL. I. Q

Bless you, no, miss. He'd have asked the
steward for you by name, but he'll be here
before long, never fear. I dare say there has
been some mistake about the time the vessel
was expected in. The agents don't know to an
hour or so, and them gentlefolks makes a deal
of bother about coming down here from the
West End. I'll be bound your uncle lives out
Kensington way — the swells mostly do."

"I don't know where he lives," said Esther,
feeling it a comfort to talk to the man, who
reminded her of Joe Bride ; " but there is
another gentleman who I thought might come
to meet me. Do you know," she added timidly,
whether there is a war now ? He is a soldier,
and I thought "

War ! " repeated the sailor, '' not as I knows
on. They're always talking of going to war with
Russia, but I've heard nothing of it from shore.
Don't take on, miss. Somebody is sure to come
soon, and I'd go below if I were you. You'll
get knocked about among the ropes if you stop
here."

He was called off, but Esther did not go below
as he had advised. She felt that it would be
impossible for her to sit still, out of sight of
land, and the confusion in the saloon was as
great as that upon deck. She sat all the

morning mounting guard over her boxes, feeling
every moment more forlorn, and becoming
gradually fainter from hunger and despair. She
had eaten nothing since the night before, and
there was no possibility of getting any luncheon
in the present disorganised state of the vessel.
It was an unusually cold day for the time of
year, and about three o'clock in the afternoon,
a slow drizzle began to fall, and the fog crept
up from the river. Esther could just see the
dim outline of the houses on shore, and of the
nearest church spires. Everything seemed dull
and unlovely, a sort of dingy neutral grey. This
was not the London she had pictured to herself
She had expected to see a city of palaces and
brightness, with streets filled with gaily dressed
ladies in carriages with champing horses, and
with gentlemen who resembled George ; but the
low thoroughfares near the river were meaner
in appearance than any colonial town. There
was an air of squalor and dirt over everything,
and the people she saw were rough, ill clad, and
shivering. She could hear the distant roar of
trains and traffic, but near at hand there was
very little stir. The wharf was deserted except
by sailors and navvies ; the captain had hurried
on shore long ago, and not one of her fellow
passengers remained on board.

Q 2

About four o'clock, when the day was darkening,
and poor Esther, pacing the deck in desperate
anxiety, was weeping helplessly from fatigue — a
round dapper man in a black great coat and a
shiny beaver hat, clambered up the plank which
led to the Lass of Goitre, and inquired of a
sailor if "a young lady of the name of Isherwood
" were on board.

Esther paused in her walk, and advanced
timidly, wondering whether this sleek person
was Sir Emilius. She was uncertain as to
whether she ought to put out her hand, or to
speak first, and then seeing that the stranger
looked at her interrogatively, said in a frightened
way :

'' I am Esther. Are you my uncle, sir ? "

A slight smile crossed the man's face, and he
bowed profoundly. " Not Sir Emilius, miss — Sir
Emilius's man." Esther did not quite perceive
the distinction, but he went on glibly, ** My
name is Parkins, miss. I have been — er — connected
with the family for many years. Sir
Emilius is attending an art sale at Christy and
Manson s, and my lady is, I believe, engaged with
social soothes. There is a cab outside the clocks,
miss, if you'll tell me where your luggage is.
The family is quite well, and my lady is in
London for a few days on her way back fi'om

Brighton. I think that Sir Emilius intends
proceeding to his country residence shortly."

Parkins, who was an estimable servant, and a
person of refined feeling, delivered this address
with the somewhat patronising air of one who
wished to place a humble dependant of the
family with which he had the honour of being
connected at as great ease as was possible under
the circumstances.

"' This is my luggage," said Esther, pointing to
the boxes at her feet.

I beg your pardon, miss," said Parkins, with
the well-bred surprise of a butler accustomed to
Lady Sherwood's imperials. '^ Is this all ? '*

I have not any more," said Esther, blushing
painfully.

Parkins beckoned to a porter who had followed
him on board, and made him shoulder the two
small trunks. Then he politely took possession of
Esther's umbrella, and of a dilapidated bandbox,
which contained a bonnet of Mrs. Overstone's
choice, and escorted his charge down the plank,
and through the low range of store sheds, to the
cab which was waiting outside the docks. He
opened the door for Esther, and took his own seat
upon the box.

It was a long drive from the docks, and the
cab moved very slowly through the narrow dark

streets. When they reached the city proper, the
turmoil of traffic increased, and they were obliged
to pause among the string of carriages that came
to a stand-still near the Mansion House. Esther
began to realise in a bewildered way the vastness
and life of this miniature world. Whence had
come this crowd of bustling humanity, and what
was it hurrying to see ? How grim and black
everything looked ! The lumbering yellow omnibuses
seemed vehicles of doom. The fog crept
up closer and denser, and the line of houses
seemed to close in before and behind, and to
touch the murky sky, except where the illuminations
of the gin palaces shone like jewels in
the mist. All the lamps were not lighted, only
one here and there, which seemed to be surrounded
by a smoky halo.

St. Paul's loomed grand and gloomy. The
clock struck the half hour as they passed the
Cathedral ; then all the chimes in the neighbourhood
took up the peal one after the other, till the
most distant died away in the din of the city.

There was a roar above, behind, and before.
As the cab passed beneath Lydgate Hill Viaduct,
a train went crashing overhead, and the poor
little savage, accustomed to the desert solitudes
of Mundoolan Island, could not repress a shriek
of excited terror.

They drove down the Strand, and past Clearing
Cross, and by the lamplight Esther could seethe
lions in Trafalgar Square, and the fountains
plashing near them. Then the cab turned into
quieter regions. Pedestrians became less numerous,
and broughams with high-stepping horses,
and sleek footmen, and well dressed ladies dimly
visible within, hurried by.

The houses now looked loftier and more uniform
and decorous. The yellow leaves from the trees
in the squares fluttered down upon the street.
Barrel organs ground mercilessly forth the popular
airs, which were all unfamiliar to the ears of our
little barbarian, and a gipsy woman sang "Ah chela
morte " in a cracked voice, beneath one of the
tall houses in a quiet street ; Esther noticed that
a servant in livery came to the door and chucked
her a penny, bidding her contemptuously " be
off." And then the cab turned into Berkeley
Square, and stopped before a large mansion, with
broad steps and a portico, decorated with the
remnants of last season's flower garden. Parkins
got down, and rang the bell with an air of proprietorship,
and a footman in plush threw open
the door and helped Esther to alight.

Presently she found herself standing in a softly
carpeted hall, hung with pictures and china, and
decorated with sculpture, and with a wide staircase

at one end. Poor Esther stood clutching
her umbrella and staring with bewildered eyes
at all this grandeur. The shabbiness of her
draggled black frock, battered hat, and cotton
gloves, seemed borne in upon her with startling
and awful conviction. She looked wistfully
from one side to the other, only to meet the
inquisitive gaze of two stolid flunkies. Her lips
drooped beseechingly, and she trembled like a
frightened child who scarcely dares to cry.

Has Sir Emilius returned ? " asked Parkins.

"No, sir," replied the footman.

And her ladyship ? "

Her ladyship is out driving."

"Let Mrs. Cullen know," said Parkins, "that
Miss Isherwood has arrived. Will you come
this way, miss ? " He conducted Esther through
the hall and into a back room which looked cosy
and luxurious. It was lined almost with books,
and furnished with couches and chairs in deep
crimson velvet. There were a great many quaint
china vases upon the oak bookshelves, and some
rare old prints in the spaces above, and plates
hung over the doors. The windows were draped
with heavy curtains, and between them was a
massive escritoire, with old fashioned silver stating
equipments. A fire burned in the grate, and here
and there in the corners and recesses, a bit of

china or glass caught its glow, and shone like a
jewel out of the mistiness. But everything was
different to all that Esther had ever seen. Even
the fire burned in another manner than its
kindred element in Australia ; for instead of the
dancing wood flames to which she had been
accustomed, she saw only a bed of warm red
coals. The softness and warmth were grateful
indeed to the chilled, frightened creature. She
was not clad with regard to the exigencies of an
English autumn, and her frame, nurtured beneath
tropical suns, could ill bear the northern chill.
The sight of the fire, and of an old-fashioned
silver tea-service sparkling upon a Sutherland
table before it, awakened several dormant sensations.
She had eaten nothing all day, and was
hungry, cold, and faint. Had she dared, she
would have sunk down upon the Persian hearth-rug
and would have wept unrestrainedly. There
seemed a choking ball in her throat, and a numbed
feeling in her limbs. But the velvet portiere
stirred, and a smartly-capped elderly female
dressed in black appeared, and looked at Esther
curiously, but not unkindly.

"Tm CuUen," she said, 'lady Isherwood's
maid and housekeeper ; I'm afraid that you are
very cold, miss. My lady will be in from her
drive presently. Shall I make you some tea ? "

Estherss tongue was tied, but Cullen did not
wait for an answer ; she stirred the fire, poured
out a fragrant cup of tea, and handed the girl
some bread and butter. "You'd best take off
your gloves, miss," she said, looking as a lady's
maid would look, at those ill-fitting articles, and
then down at Esther's gown. " You've travelled
a long way haven't you ? from Australia, isn't
it, miss 1 " and she asked several patronising
Questions, which received but monosyllabic
replies from Esther's pallid lips, and at last
took her departure, leaving the weary girl in
solitary possession of the room.

Warmed by the tea, Esther now felt, physically
speaking, more comfortable. As soon as the
portiere had fallen behind CuUen's retreating
figure, she sat down upon the hearth rug, took
ofi" her hat, and stretched out her numbed fingers
to the heat. Then a soft footstool seemed to
invite the pressure of her head ; she was not
used to conventional ways, she was very tired,
and no one seemed likely to enter. She lay
down before the fire with the instinct of an
animal in search of warmth, and looked up with
wide open bewildered eyes to the ceiling and
the mantelpiece above her. There was a bust
of Clothe upon a marble pedestal near her head,
and the face seemed to look down upon her with

a pure, pitying tenderness that reminded her
of her mother, and was comforting to her
loneliness.

Gradually her eyelids drooped. The velvet
drapery of the mantelpiece seemed to sway and
shake, till at last everything became indistinct.
Cly tie's face was more than ever like that of an
angel, and the fire made a soft murmuring. A
dreamy languor crept over her frame. The
little brown fingers dropped nervelessly, the
sharp lines of fatigue in her face softened, the
long lashes swept her rounded cheek, and ina
few moments she was sleeping like a tired
child.

A PLUNGE INTO Civilisation.

When, half dreaming, half dozing, Esther
became sensible to light and sound, a moderator
lamp ^dth a rose-coloured shade shed a soft
glow over the apartment, and a lady was speaking
in a high-pitched, unsympathetic treble,
which buzzed without any meaning, in Esther's
ears.

"You know, Emilius, I said from the first
the whole thing was ridiculous. What was the
use of bringing the girl here to be taught ? The
lower orders don't want education, I'm sure that
I have heard very clever people say it was a
great mistake raising them above their level.
Do you hear, Emilius ? "

My dear ? " questioned a thin little voice.

The lower classes ought not to be educated''
shouted the lady, still louder. '' You get deafer
every day, Emilius. There must be poor people.

and it only spoils them for servants if their
heads are stuffed with notions."

** Notions — or superficial knowledge are harmful,
my dear' Sir Emilius spoke in an expostulatory
manner ; " but it has always been my-^dsh
that the influence of art should be shed upon the
multitude. What can be the effect of art but
to refine and elevate ? "

'' Do you mean her to learn painting, then ? "
asked Lady Isherwood ; *' I should not mind that
so much, if she had a good idea of colouring.
Art is very well when it makes people useful.
I shall never forget what a comfort that little
painter you picked up in Eome, was to me.
Leonie's gowns are nothing in point of taste
to the costumes he designed. Now if the girl
could be turned into an artistic dressmaker
Cullen is no use at all, and then she is getting
old."

^fy dear Hermione," said Sir Emilius, rousing
himself, " you are quite mistaken in thinking
that you can turn my brother's daughter into a
dressmaker. It is very awkward ; I wish I knew
what to do with her. Poor Robert ! He was
my only brother, and I don't think there was
ever a handsomer fellow, but always getting into
scrapes — always in debt. Still I couldn't refuse
to befriend his only child, and a girl is not like

a boy. Poor Robert ! He was very fond of
art"'

Don't mention your brother, Emilius/' said
Lady Isherwood ; '' I don't want to know anything[
more about him than that he was a disgrace
to the name. I might be asked questions,
and one's always safe in saying that one doesn't
know. A mauvais sujet in a family is very
awkward."

I wonder who her mother was," said Sir
Emilius, reflectively. "Eobert told me nothing
about her. I thought it best not to inquire.
Some one he married out there perhaps. There
was a story — but — that would be impossible."

"A wild woman most likely," exclaimed Lady
Isherwood, who when she was annoyed spoke
incisively, and when she was merely vaguely
interested, in a rapid monotone. " Look there,"
she added, pointing contemptuously to Esther
upon the hearthrug.

"It is a picturesque pose," said Sir Emilius,
adjusting his eyeglass critically ; "and she is like
her father."

A picturesque savage ! " cried Lady Isherwood.
^' See how she is dressed ! Look at her
gown — alpaca that a kitchen maid would be
ashamed to wear — and her hat ! What must
the servants have thought when she arrived ?

It was very foolish of you to have anything todo
with her. You might have sent some money to
those farmer people, and she would have married
out there, and we should have heard no more
of her."

'you won't be troubled with her at present,
my dear. I have arranged that she shall go to
Miss Binney's school immediately. From all that
I can gather, she is quite uneducated."

Well, I am glad that we are to get rid of
her," said Lady Isherwood. " It would be very
awkward taking her to Bar Wold, and the house
full of Charles's friends for the pheasant shooting.
I have had a letter from Adelaide to-day, Emilius.
She says she can't leave her sister yet. It is too
inconsiderate of her. I am sure that some people
think nothing of having a baby. I want Adelaide
particularly," continued Lady Isherwood,
her thoughts wandering away from Esther, who
still lay upon the hearth rug, conscious of the conversational
buzzing, but not sufficiently wide
awake to take in its meaning. '* She has very
good taste, and there are my dresses to be decided
upon for the winter balls and the shooting parties.
If you don't get new gowns for the country,
people say that you are wearing out last season's
things. To be sure, they could be altered ; but
CuUen never knows what becomes me, and

Leonie don't seem to care. I think I shall
change Leonie, but a new dressmaker is such
an anxiety, and since Floss died, and Charles
began to go wrong, I haven't felt equal to
worry."

This was Lady Isherwood's way of passing
over the misdemeanours of her only son, a
young gentleman who played loo for high
stakes, and had an unfortunate weakness for
racing.

Sir Emilius uttered a heavy sigh at the mention
of his heir, and Lady Isherwood asked,
"Have you heard what Charles did at Newmarket,
Emilius 1 "

I heard that he lost money," said Sir Emilius,
"as usual — God knows what he is coming to."
He sat silent for a minute or two, then deliberately
rose and adjusted a group of old Chelsea
upon a bracket near him. " That decided me
against buying Bellingham's Sevres clock at
Christy's to-day. It was a great sacrifice — only
four like it in the world, and it went for fifteen
hundred guineas."

"I think that we have clocks enough at
Bar "Wold," said Lady Isherwood unsympathetically.
She fidgeted with her bonnet strings,
and with the bracelets upon her arms ; and Sir
Emilius, heaving another deep sigh, sank back

into the depths of his arm-chair. He seemed
almost swallowed up in it, as Esther observed,
for she was now sufficiently awakened, to examine
the appearance of her relatives.

Her uncle was a small spare man, with a
wrinkled face and a very large nose, and with a
melancholy way of staring into vacancy. Lady
Isherwood was florid and fat, with a still peach-like
complexion, and a profusion of soft hair
that had once been golden. She had blue eyes,
spoiled by light lashes, and a pretty pouting
mouth that often looked cross. She had been
a beauty in her youth, and had been known as
the lovely Miss Comyn ; but her relations always
talked of her as " poor Hermione," and regretted
that she was such a baby. They had much
more reason to pity Sir Emilius, who was a
well-informed man, and had once had some
loftier aspirations in life, than the ambition to
make his house into a museum for old china.
But these had all dwindled into a 
enthusiasm for art, and a mania for
bric-d-bi^ac. As for Lady Isherwood, the great
interests of her life were bounded by Worth
and Leonie ; but she had also a way of delivering
incisive platitudes with the tactless freedom of
a spoiled child, and retained always a happy
conviction of her own importance in the scale

VOL. I. R

of the universe, and of the infallibility of her
judgments in general. Poor Esther became
suddenly conscious that she had no right to
lie any longer upon that soft rug in front of the
fire, like a tired dog, and rose with a start,
encountering in her wondering gaze round the
room, the vapid glance of her new aunt.

Lady Isherwood stared at the girl with a kind
of naive curiosity, as though the new comer had
been a wild animal secured at a convenient distance
for her inspection. Then she gave her head
a little nod, and appealed shrilly to her husband —

Sir Emilius — do you see ? the girl is awake."

Sir Emilius roused himself from regretful
thoughts of the Sevres clock.

"I was told, my dear, that her name is
Esther."

'well," said Lady Isherwood, 'esther' is
awake."

"Esther," said Sir Emilius, rising slowly and
holding out his hand, "I am glad to see that
you have arrived safely from Australia. It is
a very long voyage. How do you do ? I hope
that you are quite well."

I suppose that you have not slept much,
lately," said Lady Isherwood, " though I thought
that was all people did on board ship — but did
you not see that there were sofas and chairs in

the room ? It is not good manners to fall asleep
directly you arrive in a house — perhaps you did
not know that ; or you might have been pretending
with your eyes shut, in order to hear
what we said of you."

Esther was too frightened and bewildered, to
feel angry at the imputation.

I wasn't pretending," she faltered ; "I was
cold — and I did not mean to fall asleep."

Are you glad to come to England 1 " asked
Sir Emilius.

I don't know, sir," answered Esther, inclined
to cry ; " everything seems so strange ; but it
is beautiful here."

You like the room," said Sir Emilius, brightening
up ; "l took a great deal of pains with it,
and that china is very valuable ; it is real old
Worcester. You have never seen anything like
it before ? You should try and cultivate a feeling
for art by observing all these things — and pictures.
I have some fine paintings at Bar Wold."

I hope that you are grateful for what we are
going to do for you," said Lady Isherwood, " and
for what we have already done. It has been a
great expense to us bringing you over from
Australia, and now we are going to pay for
your schooling. Perhaps by and by, when you
have been taught something, you may be able to

R 2

read aloud to me, and that will be making yourself
useful. Tm very fond of being read aloud to,
while I am doing my crewel work. Do you see
that table-cover ? I worked it. The pattern was
designed at the Art School of Needlework. Do
you think it pretty 1 "

I don't know, ma'am," said Esther, staring
with a want of appreciation, at an aesthetic
combination of blue and green.

You should not say * ma'am ' to me. The
servants say * my lady,' but I am sure I don't
know what it would be best for you to call me."

*lady Isherwood is your aunt," explained
Sir Emilius. '' I understand, my dear, that you
have been brought up in complete ignorance of
your father's family ? "

Yes, sir," replied Esther.

It was better so," said Sir Emilius ; ** it
showed right feeling on Robert's part. Can you
tell me anything about your mother ? Do you
know what her maiden name was ? "

I never heard anything about her," said
Esther, flushing, as she always did, when her
mother was mentioned.

"You don't know whether your father married
her in Australia ? "

''No, sir."

"Your father went out under painful circumstances,"

continued Sir Emilius ; " it is a subject
to which we never make any allusion. His name
had been almost forgotten when his letter came
to me begging me to provide for you. It was
a request that I could not conscientiously ignore ;
though you must understand that I am in noway
bound to support you, and what I may do
for you in the future must depend entirely upon
your own conduct. Do you understand,
Esther?"

Yes, sir," said Esther again.

I mean kindly to you, my dear," said Sir
Emilius, touched by her meekness and her
prettiness. *' You are like your father, certainly
like him, but the subject is painful, and the less
you talk of him, and of your early life, the better.
I am going to send you to school. Miss Binney
is a very worthy lady, the sister of a tutor of my
son's." Sir Emilius sighed again — Esther thought
that he was always sighing — and his thin white
hands rubbed each other nervously all the time
he was speaking. His head was poked forward
a little, and he talked in that soft monotone
which is observable in deaf people ; but he was
a very gentle old man she thought, and not at all
alarming. " You must do your best to profit by
her instructions, and to cultivate a perception of
the beautiful."

Have you a better gown than that ? " asked
Lady Isherwood suddenly.

'' I have my Sunday frock," said Esther ; " it
is black, like this one."

CuUen must take you to Jay's tomorrow.
Do you hear Emilius — she can't go about like
that."

Very well, my dear."

'rit is nearly dressing time. Is she to dine
with us ? "

I suppose so, my dear," said Sir Emilius.
Where else should she dine ? "

She can't go to the housekeeper's room can
she ? " asked Lady Isherwood, doubtfully. " Well,
you had better come up stairs with me," she
added, rising and addressing Esther. " CuUen
can show you your room."

Esther was taken up four flights, to the bedroom
which had been prepared for her. It was
only a moderately comfortable chamber near the
top of the house, but it seemed to her that the utmost
effort of civilisation could provide nothing
more luxurious. A housemaid was turning over
the contents of Esther s trunk, and asked in a
supercilious manner, if she could assist Miss
Isherwood, but the girl dismissed her; and then,
divining by a happy instinct that she was
expected to make some changes in her toilette,

washed her face and hands, brushed her hair,
and put on her other black frock.

At the clang of a gong she ventured to
descend the two flights of stairs, and was confronted
by a footman on the landing and shown
into the drawing-room.

Had Esther known anything about the matter,
she would at once have realised, that Sir Emilius
Isherwood's house was decorated after the most
approved fashion of modern sestheticism. There
where dados upon the walls, and subdued curtains,
and sickly carpets, a great deal of china,
panels painted in stiff mediaeval patterns, and
mirrors in quaint old-fashioned frames. It was
all very beautiful and bewildering, but she was
too frightened to observe details. She entered
awkwardly. The distance between herself and
the group round the fire, was terrible to think of
traversing, and, confused by the soft lights, and
multitudinous knickknacks, she knocked against a
spindle-legged table in her progress, and upset a
little china bowl upon it. The bowl was smashed
into a hundred fragments, and the pot-pourra with
which it had been filled, strewed the carpet.

Lady Isherwood turned sharply from the fireplace
where she had been standing, looking, poor
Esther thought, awful in her wrath, and in the
dignity of her velvet dress.

You must be taught better manners, miss,
before you come to us again. I told you, Emilius,
that she had better have gone to the housekeeper's
room. Can't you look where you are
going ? That china is very valuable."

It was oriental," said Sir Emilius, with tears
in his voice, picking up two or three of the pieces
and regarding them wistfully. " It can't even be
riveted. Parkins, see that the most valuable of
the china is removed tomorrow from these small
tables. Never mind, my dear," he added, seeing
that Esther's lip was quivering; '* these things
must happen, you know, sometimes, and I daresay
that you cannot help being clumsy."

'' Every one can help being clumsy," said Lady
Isherwood, incisively.

Just then a gentleman ran up the stairs,
and Parkins announced Mr. Bernard Comyn.
"What is the matter ?" asked the new comer,
n a brisk mellow voice. *' Have you broken
some of your china. Sir Emilius ? Well, if you
will put it on Queen Anne tables in the centre
of a dim room, I don't see what else you can
expect. It's not high art, is it, to have a light
that one can see by 1 That is one of the reasons
why I'm afraid of coming here. I feel like a
bull in a china shop. How do you do Hermione ?
Will you give me some dinner ? "

Bernard ! " cried Lady Isherwood in a surprised
voice ; and Sir Emilius said in his feeble
way — " Glad to see you Bernard. I did not
know that you were in England."

I have just come back from a walking tour
in Switzerland."

"They all say that you ran away'' said
Lady Isherwood, in her usual tactless manner,
'* because you had not passed your examination."


Oh ! '* said the young man flushing a little
angrily. He was not so very youthful, but he
looked fresh and energetic beside Sir Emilius's
withered-up face and figure. He had a rather
massive, clever face, with an overhanging brow,
and a pair of contemplative eyes looking out
from beneath horizontal brows. His upper lip
was short and moved restlessly, and he had
a way of lifting up his chin, which was rather
long and suggested a great deal of activity.
They means the family, I suppose, Hermione ?
Well, the combined counsel of fools does not
usually result in wisdom, and it is not to be
wondered at, that they were out in their judgment.
I did not run away."

You are very rude," said Lady Isherwood,
and if it comes to being fools — you know you
didn't pass. And I was very much surprised at

it, for you worked hard ; and people say that
you are clever, Bernard."

'' I made up my mind some time ago that I
would not go in for the Bar'' said Bernard
shortly.

But you must do something," said Sir
Emilius. " And you are getting on in years."

I don't see why I should do anything, in
your sense of the word," answered Bernard testily:
I have a sufficient income to keep me from
starving."

'rit would be a good thing if you were to
marry an heiress," said Lady Isherwood. " I know
a very nice girl with "

Hermione," said Bernard not very good-tempered,
'pray don't trouble yourself about
my matrimonial prospects. It is labour quite
thrown away."

Dinner is on the table," announced Parkins.

Sir Emilius offered his arm to his niece, and
for the first time Bernard became aware of
Esther s presence. He saw a little pale face surmounting
a high, shabby, black frock, and eyes of
unusual beauty, that watched with sympathetic
understanding, the irritation provoked by Lady
Sherwood's remarks.

Why ! who is that ? " Esther heard him ask,
as he followed with her aunt.

It's an Australian niece of Emilius's," replied
Lady Isherwood. " She's his brothers daughter."

I never knew that he had a brother out
there' exclaimed Bernard.

He's dead," replied Lady Isherwood. " He
was a mauvais sujet, so don't ask questions. I
think it extremely inconsiderate of Emilius to
have the girl here ; but he is always doing silly
things. However, he has been punished for his
folly already, for she is a perfect savage, and
broke one of his oriental bowls just before you
came in."

Bernard said no more, but he looked at Esther
a good deal during dinner. She was painfully
awkward, and evidently bewildered. He noticed
compassionately, her quick flushing and the
quivering of her lips, and good-naturedly tried
to draw attention from her embarrassment, by
an amusing account of his Swiss expedition.

Esther was naturally refined, and therefore
secure from any shocking solecism ; but good
breeding does not come quite by instinct, and it
must be remembered, that in Australia she had
lived in the roughest fashion, and upon the most
primitive fare, cooked for the most part by her
own fingers. To o-q through the varied courses
of a modern dinner a la Russe, waited upon by
Parkins and his three satellites, was to her an

alarming experience. It was not surprising that
she sat overpowered with confusion, and perplexed
as to the relative use of the implements placed
before her, or that in every gesture she betrayed
a complete ignorance of the customs of society.
When the servants had left the room, Lady
Isherwood remarked with her unpleasant candour,
" It is to be hoped that Miss Binney will
teach you how to eat you dinner, before you
come to us again. It would have been excessively
awkward had any one but Bernard been here to
see what a barbarian you are."

Hermione," said Bernard, in a serious voice, but
with an amused look in his eyes ; " you know that
I have travelled a great deal, and I have come
to the conclusion that you English are, with your
insular prejudices, the most thorough barbarians
in the world. I once had the honour of dining
with their majesties of the Fiji Islands, and I
assure you, that they looked upon me as a far
greater savage than themselves. The standard of
etiquette as regards dining is entirely relative."

I don't know anything about the king and
queen of the Fiji Islands," said Lady Isherwood,
looking puzzled; "but it is ridiculous to say
that it is correct to eat one's jelly with a knife."

** You are drinking nothing, Bernard," said
Sir Emilius. *' Is not the claret to your liking ?

What do you say to a bottle of the Mouton
of '58?"

*'No, thank you," replied Bernard, filling his
glass with water, " I have turned teetotaller."

*' Why, Bernard ! " exclaimed Lady Isherwood,
how very odd ! You are full of fads about
eating and drinking, and exercise. I thought
that only common people were teetotallers.
You used to say that wine stimulated the
brain, but I suppose that you have found out
your mistake."

She swept languidly out of the dining-room,
and Esther followed her up stairs. The poor girl
seated herself in a corner of the drawing-room,
not daring to speak, or to touch one of the
library books with which a low table near the
fire was strewed. Lady Isherwood looked at
them one by one, taking no notice of her niece,
and finally settled herself in an arm-chair with
the Morning Post, which she read, making occasional
comments upon the fashionable news, but
her remarks were all as so much Greek to
Esther.

Presently the gentlemen entered, and coffee
was brought in. Bernard fidgeted about the
room, and wished at Hermione's books. He
glanced at a review, and then carried his cup
of coffee to a chair beside Esther, and began

talking to her. He asked her several questions
about her voyage, and about Australia, talking
in an abrupt, eager manner, as though everything
that was out of the common interested
him.

Lady Isherwood's scanty explanation of
Esther's presence in the house had apparently
satisfied Bernard, for he asked no awkward questions.
He made a great many inquiries as to
the life she had led and the mode of cattle
farming in Australia, and when she described
the island, looked at her with real interest, exclaiming;
at intervals, " How curious ! — What a
wild life ! " — and so on, till Esther began to
forget her shyness, and to talk quite naturally.

*swell," said Bernard, " I dont think it could
have been such a bad sort of place ; I think that
I should have liked it, but I daresay it was
lonely for a girl. You had very few books there,
I suppose ? "

Scarcely any, sir," replied Esther.

Then you haven't had much education. Sir
Emilius says that you are going to school."

I hope so, sir," replied Esther.

You would like that ? "

*' Oh yes," cried Esther. " I am longing to
learn."

Bernard nodded his head in an approving

way. '' I like you for that. Now / am fond
of learning everything I can. One can't get on
in life without an interest of some sort, and
when I go in for a thing I like to master it,
unless I find something else that suits me better.
I am not sure that it is not an advantage knowing
next to nothing. You have the whole field
before you without the confusion of a general
smattering. If I were you, T should try to
discover my line — it might be languages, or
drawing, or music — and when you have discovered
it, bring your powers into a focus, as
it were. I am a great believer in people having
a particular bent, and working towards it."

Bernard," said Sir Emilius in his slow, gentle
way, "that does not come well from you, who
have gone in for so many things, and are now
a mere dilettante!'

*' Dilettantism is a vocation in itself," said
Bernard, reddening slightly. " To be a dilettante
does not imply that one is a sciolist."

A rolling stone," quoted Sir Emilius softly,
shaking his head. '* Advancing age brings the
desire to settle down and to form a home."

I have enough to live upon as a bachelor,"
said Bernard. " Two rooms with a cartload of
furniture are the only diggings I care for. And
as for marriage, at which Hermione is always

driving, a fashionable young woman with three
ideas in her head would not suit me at all.
I want an intellectual companion ; and if I don't
come across a rational woman, who will consent
to rough it with me on £800 a year, I'll give
up all notion of matrimony."

Eight hundred a year," repeated Lady Isherwood,
reflectively ; '' she could not keep a lady's
maid upon that ; and how would she get her
dresses made ? ''

Bernard's chin went up impatiently. *' Her-mine
always rubs me the wrong way," he said
in a low tone to Esther ; " I can't stand being
with her for long. I suppose you don't know
much about the family politics," he added, taking
up a paper and speaking from behind it. *' I am
no relation to Sir Emilius, therefore I can't claim
connection with you. Hermione is my cousin,
but I hope you won't consider me responsible for
her unpleasantness. She was a beauty, and she
is like the poor pretty princess to whom the
fairies gave everything but wisdom ; she never
grew mentally after she was fourteen, except ina
knowledge of millinery. You must not take it
to heart when she makes herself disagreeable ;
she really does not mean it, and is like a grownup
baby — saying always exactly what she thinks.
I could see that you were almost crying once or

twice this evening ; I dare say you felt strange
and uncomfortable."

Oh ! so strange, sir," said poor Esther.

"There," said Bernard, "you'll have Lady
Isherwood hauling you over the coals again.
Girls don't call gentlemen ' sir ' in England — I
wish they were half so respectful. It is only
in novels that plain governesses address their
masters as ' sir,' and contrive to inspire them
with a violent attachment. You would not like
me to call you ' madam,' would you ? "

Esther laughed.

I see that wee shall be good friends," continued
Bernard ; " you are not afraid of me, and you
will not mind my telling you when you make
mistakes. People in England don't eat jelly with
their knives, though Hermione was a little
puzzled about the etiquette of the Fiji Islands.
Aren't you very tired ? — you look so pale. Are
you always so pale ? "

'' I am very tired," said Esther, '' but I don't
like to ask if I may go to bed."

'' Hermione," exclaimed Bernard, jumping up,
may I ring for a candle ? It is thoughtless of
you not to recollect that your niece has had a
long voyage."

Parkins brought in the candle, and Bernard

VOL. I. s

handed it to Esther, bidding her good-night, with
a hearty pressure of her fingers.

I don't get up to breakfast," said Lady
Isherwood ; '' CuUen will bring you yours ; and
you are going to a shop tomorrow, to have
some clothes bought for you, before you go to
school. Good-night."

She dismissed Esther with a little nod. Sir
Emilius was asleep in his chair. The girl climbed
up the stairs, and undressing herself, lay down
upon the bed, which was shrouded in heavy
moreen curtains, and made her feel as though she
were in a prison. She was too excited to sleep.
The various impressions of the day came crowding
into her mind, and filled her brain with a
medley of confused images. Of all the people
she had seen that day, Bernard's face stood outmost
distinctly. How kind he had been ! She
thought of George, and came to the conclusion
that English young men in general, were a race of
Paladins who devoted themselves to the succour
of those in distress.

Though her bed was more luxurious than any
she had ever slept in, Esther lay awake nearly
all night. When she tried to close her eyes and
compose her thoughts, the distant roar of London
sounded like the roll of the ocean as it beat against

the rocks upon a stormy night. There were unaccustomed
cries in the street near her, which,
however, destroyed that illusion, and just as she
was going off, something curious and unexpected
in the shape of a noise would awaken her again
with a violent start.

END OF VOLUME I.

R. CLAY, SONS, AND Taylor.

BREAD STREET Hill, E.C.

V

OF THE

U N IVE.R51TY

Of ILLINOIS

P883a

MJ>.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

J\J

L161— O-1096

Australian HEROINE

E. MURRAY PRIOR.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

bonbon :

CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited, 193, Piccadilly

1880.

[All rights reserved.]

K. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR,

BREAD STREET HILL.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

FREDERICA TALMADGE 1

CHAPTER II.

AN AFTERNOON AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE 22

CHAPTER III.

AUNT THEODOSIA 44

CHAPTER IV.

A MEETING AT BURLINGTON HOUSE 6/

CHAPTER V.

THE Sherwood IN Bedfordshire 9^

CONTENTS.

Chapter VI.

PAGE
UPON THE BRIDGE WITH BERNARD 126

CHAPTER VI I.

IN MR. LTDYIARD's CHAMBERS . . . ., 147

CHAPTER VIII.

MUSIC IN THE Drawing-room AT BAR WOLD l8l

CHAPTER IX.

MY COUSIN, CAPTAIN BRAND " 209

CHAPTER X.

THE DINNER PARTY AT ALLERTON 226

CHAPTER XI.

GEORGE BRAND BECOMES A SUITOR 254

Chapter I.

Frederica TALMADGE.

Upon the morning folio win o- Esther was taken
by CuUen to a West End shop), where she was
furnished with such a wardrobe, as the ladies-maid
considered suitable for a humble member of the
Isherwood family, about to be sent to school.

Esther s position had been satisfactorily settled
in the housekeeper's room the night before. It
was decided that there must be something doubtful
about her antecedents ; but loyalty to the family
name shielded her from too scathing criticism,
and demanded, that as Miss Isherwood, a certain
amount of consideration should be awarded
her. Cook, Parkins, and Cullen, who where, so
to speak, members of the family, having been in
Sir Emilius' service over fourteen years, took her

VOL. II. B

as it were, under their protection. They were all
kind-hearted, and inclined to patronize and pity
the neglected orphan ; and the footman, who had
tittered at Esther's embarrassment during dinner
the previous evening, was severely rebuked
by Parkins as not knowing his place, while
Cullen administered a lecture to the housemaid,
who had presumed to make a joke in the servants'
hall upon the paucity of Miss Isherwood's
wardrobe.

When she was fairly fitted out in a neat
mourning costume, with a little black hat and
well-fitting shoes and gloves, Esther looked a
very different being: to the draggled creature
who had made an appearance in Berkeley Square
the evening before. "Well, I declare. Miss,"
exclaimed Cullen, "you ain't the same young
lady. Dress does make a difference, to be sure,
and my Lady will be better pleased with you now
that you have on a smarter gown. That was a
disgrace — the one you have taken off — but I
suppose there ain't no dress-makers in Australia.
I said to my Lady last night, that you put me in
mind of a picture of one of the Miss Sherwood
at Barwold. A picture by Sir Joshua, as they
call him ; and I see the likeness more than ever
now. Your father was Sir Emilius' only brother,
wasn't he, Miss ? It's curious that I've never

heard him mentioned, long as I have been in the
family."

I did not know anything about the Sherwood
till I came to England yesterday," replied
Esther, mindful of Sir Elias' injunction, "and
I can tell you nothing about my father."

La ! that's curious," said CuUen. " I couldn't
have believed that any one could be so ignorant
of their own relations ; but hold up your back,
Miss, and don't look as though you were ashamed
of yourself. And as to behaving prettily, we'll
stop at a bookseller's on our way home, and I'll
buy you a little book that'll teach you company
ways." But Esther, with an instinct she could
hardly define, drew herself back a little, and did
not accept CuUen's offer.

They made a little detour on their way back,
for Cullen had taken a cab by the hour, and in
an impulse of Cockney good-nature, proposed
that she should show Esther something of the
Metropolis. They drove home by the Thames
Embankment, and Cullen pointed out the Houses
of Parliament, and Buckingham Palace — " where
the Queen lives, Miss, when she is in London " —
and such other objects of interest as were patent
to the ladies-maid.

A detachment of the Guards was filing down

St. James's Street, and Esther's heart gave a

B 2'

violent bound as she realized that these were
soldiers. In her ignorance she fancied that all
regiments wore the same uniform ; and George
was a soldier. She scanned each face as the
troop went slowly by, but Brand was certainly
not there. She put a few questions to Cullen as
to military discipline, and the army generally,
but received no satisfaction.

Why, there aren't such a many soldiers,
Miss, except what are wanted to guard the royal
family," said Cullen, whose ideas on the subject
were vague. " They're down at Aldershot
mostly, or scattered about the kingdom. But
you are too young to be hankering after the
red-coats ; and it's not becoming in a young
lady like you, to be asking questions about the
officers, as though you were wanting to be a
barrack flirt." i

Cullen gave a little sniff, which conveyed
the intimation that of all despicable creatures a
barrack flirt " was the most to be reprobated.
Esther, though she did not understand the term,
accepted it, with a feeling of guilt, as a charge
that might possibly be laid by a superior intelligence
to herself. She felt herself in a world
which could not be gauged by her past experiences,
and stifled her longings, asking no further questions
of remote reference to her lover.

Bernard Comyn did not visit Berkeley Square
again during Esther's short stay there. As soon
as her wardrobe was complete, she was dismissed
with a valedictory admonition from Lady Isherwood
to " learn to behave like other people."
Sir Emilius patted her on the shoulder, saying,
'^ Good-bye, my dear ; good-bye ; try and improve,
and become less awkward ; and bear in
mind that there is no influence like that of art
for refining the understanding." He placed a
five-pound note in her hand ; and then Esther,
escorted by Parkins, was conveyed in a cab to
Miss Binney's school for young ladies at Lower
Wormwood.

Bolingbroke House was a laroje stone mansion,
standing in its own grounds a little off the street,
and approached through entrance-gates, the pillars
of which were surmounted by two huge pineapples
in plaster. " Bolingbroke House " was
printed in neat letters above the bell-handle, and
there was a shrubbery of dwarfed laurentius and
laurels in front, and a large walled-in garden at
the back, where in summer the girls walked and
read. It was a very genteel establishment, and
contained about twenty pupils, ten of whom were
boarders, and the rest day scholars. Some were
of the same a^e as Esther, but most of them
were considerably younger. They were all much

further advanced in knowledge, as was not surprising
; and a general titter ran down the classes
when the new girl went through her preliminary
examination, displaying a lamentable ignorance
of the A B C of young-lady-like instruction,
and was formally placed in the very lowest form,
amongst girls of eleven and twelve.

Esther thought Miss Binney very like the old
woman who couldn't drive her pig from market,
in Eod's Book of Nursery Tales — with her sharp
face and bright eyes, and the crimson tippet
which she wore crossed over her shoulders. She
always wore mittens too, and a mob-cab that
completed the resemblance, but she could be very
dignified upon occasions.

Miss Isherwood," said the schoolmistress in
her most impressive manner, ^^ J am sorry to find
that your education has been entirely neglected,
and that you are deficient in the most elementary
knowledge. For this I was somewhat prepared ;
as your estimable uncle. Sir Emilius Isherwood,
with whom I have long been acquainted, informed
me that you had been brought up under singular
disadvantages. You must all remember, young
ladies," continued Miss Binney, addressing severely
the row of tittering school-girls, " that Miss Sherwood's
youth has been spent in a land where
educational advantages are not easily obtainable.

and she is not to be blamed for having been
deprived of those blessings which in England are
so lightly prized. Young ladies of the third class,
turn to your geography and your atlas ; look out
Australia or New Holland, and read the remarks
which Stewart makes upon that lately-discovered
continent. I am obliged, Miss Isherwood, to
place you low down in the school ; but if you are
industrious, and desirous of self-improvement,
you will soon repair your deficiencies by a diligent
attention to your teachers, and by devoting all
your spare time to the acquirement of knowledge.
Miss Talmadge, I think Herr Stolzheim is waiting
to give you your music lesson."

A tall fair girl, who had been looking intently
at Esther, left the room, and Miss Binney turned
away at the conclusion of her address, and began
giving a dictation lesson. Red sith shame, Esther
took up her position in a class composed of hobbledehoy
misses, who stared rudely at her, and
whispered to each other with a degree of ill breeding
only possible in a set of English school-girls.
Esther felt from that moment that they all
hated and despised her, and shrank into herself,
holding all her companions at a distance, and
enduring agonies only to be appreciated by very
shy, sensitive persons, who may at some period of
their lives have found themselves in a similar

position. Every time they looked at her she
fancied that they were holding her up to ridicule
among themselves ; and when in their games they
pushed roughly against her, or excluded her from
participation in their school-girl pranks and jokes,
she made up her mind that they disliked her
because she was ignorant, and un-english, and did
not understand their ways. Often in the darkness
of the night, as she wept in sheer desolation
in her little bed, she would tell herself that
active ill-usage and menial tasks, were easier to
be borne than this passive antipathy and ignoring
of her existence.

Esther was remarkably intelligent, and her
early experiences and close sympathy with nature,
solitary and vast, always to her a living source of
comfort, which these prim gardens and trimmed
hedges could never be — had developed in her a
susceptibility which under other circumstances
might perhaps have been wanting. Externals
impressed her readily, and yet she had a vigorous
mind-life of which every one else was ignorant.
She was burning to become as well informed as
the girls around her. She wanted to train
herself in order that she might in time be worthy
of George.

She had her inner visions and enthusiastic
longings which she could never utter. Some one

on board the ' Lass of Gowrie ' had lent her the
Mill on the Floss,' and when she had read of
Maggie Tulliver and such like heroines, whose
books had been to them a world of inspiratory
delight, it had seemed an easy thing to learn.
Now that she was confronted by the hard, mechanical
routine of education — the stolid dulness
of ' Murray's Grammar,' ' Coles's Arithmetic,'
Perrier's Fables,' the chronological intricacies of
the early Saxon monarchies, and the first lines of
French kings — knowledge seemed only a labyrinth
of dry facts and incomprehensible dates, while the
clue to beautiful inspiring thoughts appeared lost
for ever.

Poor Esther ! If she could have skimmed over
the rudimentary fields ! If Miss Binney had
given her ' Plutarch's Lives,' and Buller's and
Scott's historical novels, and had taught her mythology
through the medium of ' Kingsley's Heroes '
and the ' Earthly Paradise ' — the clue might have
been regained ; but to attempt education in higher
branches upon an inadequate elementary groundwork,
was contrary to all the canons of the
Bolingbroke House philosophy. And so Esther
plodded on at 'Pinnace's England,' 'Mangnall's
Questions,' ' Brewer's Guide to Science,' and such
like approved text-books, making no perceptible
advance to her goal. All the time she was

thinking to herself despairingly, '' Oh ! how can
I ever fit myself to be Mr. Brand's wife ? How
can I expect him to love me, when I am more
ignorant than these rude skirts of twelve ? — and
what can I do to learn fast enough ? " Bernard's
words of hearty interest and encouragement
would come to her often in the midst of her
loveless tasks, and, without knowing why, her
thoughts frequently recurred to him. She wished
that she could see him again and ask him to help
her.

She did as Miss Binney had desired, studying
diligently in and out of school hours ; and in the
winter afternoons, when the others were amusing
themselves over their wool-work or their story-books,
cracking school-girl jokes, or drawing humorous
caricatures of their governess, Esther
would sit apart by the window, cudgelling her
brains over a lesson in arithmetic or a page of
French Grammar.

She was always fancying that her companions
were laughing at her for her ignorance and unlikeness
to themselves. In truth, though below them
in the scale of actual knowledge, she was infinitely
their superior as regards mental culture,
that faculty that is independent of book-learning,
and enables its possessor to intuitively select
and enjoy the highest, in sensation, art, or literature.

The jangling of their jokes grated on
Esther's ear. Sometimes the book she was studying
would drop from her fingers, and she would
forget the schoolroom and its occupants. The
wintry garden, and the straight street opposite,
with its monotonous row of houses at which she
had been vacantly staring, would vanish. She
would be on the island ag-ain, standing against the
lighthouse, with the sea-breeze lifting up her hair,
and expanding her being ; or in the garden at Bully
Wallah, with the orange-blossoms dropping upon
her head, or the Cape jessamine, that suggested
thoughts of George, and of her love, scenting the
air around her.

It seemed to her that in the days before she
had known him, and in those following his departure,
she had not been so lonely as she was now.
Then, she had had the trees and the sea, and
there had been no inquisitive, unsympathetic
eyes to stare at her. If one of the girls would
only make a friend of her, and seem to understand
her ! She was thirsting for love. The
smallest expression of sympathy would have
fallen upon her heart like dew upon a sun-baked
desert ; but she had that intense consciousness of
solitude in the midst of a crowd, that is most
painful of all — the hemmed-in, caged-up feeling,
which, when she wept at night in her dormitory,

made her stifle her sobs lest they should be audible
to her fellow-sleepers.

There was only one of Miss Binney's pupils
who seemed to regard Esther with anything like
interest, and even this was passive, and of a
purely artistic nature. There was among the
boarders a tall, fair girl — she who had been called
off to her music-lesson at the time of Esther's
introduction — with regular features and a pretty
complexion, whose graceful figure carried elegantly
her somewhat shabby gowns, and made
every garment she wore appear well-fitting. She
had a soft, composed way of speaking and looking,
never laughed loudly, or was angular in her
movements. Everything she attempted, she did
mechanically well. She played beautifully upon
the piano, and spoke languages with fluency
She was a favourite with every one, and Miss
Binney held her up as a proof of the superiority
of the Bolingbroke House mode of tuition. But
she had evidently one absorbing interest, and
this was her drawing-board. In her leisure moments
when school was over, and the other girls
were amusing themselves after their several inclinations,
Erederica Talmadge was always seated
with a pencil and paper before her, taking little
sketches, or designing illustrations, and more
than once she had made a furtive study of

Esther's head, as the girl pored over her lesson-books
in the window. Esther had in her turn
observed Frederica Talmadge, but with an admiring
awe, longing to be noticed by her, but not
daring to obtrude herself upon the attention of one
who was so manifestly superior. Both the girls
were shy, and Esther had, by her reticence, and
the fact of her connection with the Isherwood
family — a fact upon which Miss Binney laid
great stress — quite unconsciously earned for herself
the reputation of pride. Frederica was a
weekly boarder, going home on Saturday and
returning to Bolingbroke House on Monday ; l)Ut
Esther knew nothing about her except that she
lived with an aunt at South Kensington, and
that when she left Miss Binney's, she was going
to study at the School of Art there, to be a
portrait-painter.

One afternoon, in the early part of December,
Frederica was drawing by the light of the gas
chandelier, and Esther was sitting as usual apart.
It was a snowy day, and the girls, confined to the
house, had made more noise than was customary
even with them. More than once Frederica had
mildly expostulated, but it was of no use, and
Esther had given up in despair the attempt to
study. The bell rang for tea, and Esther put
up her books with a sigh of relief, but Frederica,

who had been interested in her work, involuntarily
uttered an exclamation of disappointment.
What's the matter, Freddie ? " asked one of the
girls, pausing to look at what she had been doing.
*' Why, it is very like — I wish you would draw
me one of these days. You have never drawn me
yet."

Frederica looked at her drawing, and then in
an abstracted way at Esther. '^ Yes, I think it is
like, but this light is so bad. You can't draw by
Q-as. It is the mouth that is not riojht. I thought

o o

1 had got it this time."

It is a funny mouth," said the other, critically
regarding the new girl ; and Esther, seeing
that she herself was under discussion, and judging
by their looks that they were not ridiculing
her, stepped forward, and over Frederica's shoulder
saw a pretty likeness of herself.

That Frederica should have considered her face
worth studying, implied an interest which moved
her to Gratitude. " You have been drawing
me I " she exclaimed.

"Yes," said Frederica, still looking at her
work ; " but your mouth is so difficult, and you
moved. I wish," she added, " that you would
sit to me some time, when you are not doing
anything particular. Should you mind ? I have
tried so hard to get your face — and it is good

practice to draw it, for you have a great deal of
expression."

Do you think so ? " said Esther, wondering
still more. " Would you really care to draw
me ? " she added, looking wistfully at the young
artist. " I should be so glad to sit to you, if it
helped you."

Oh, yes ! " said Frederica. " Thank you ; it
would be a great help. You see," she went on,
some day or other I want to become a portrait
painter. I want to make it my profession. It
is a great thing to have a profession if one is
poor. I shall begin really to study as soon as
1 have left school ; and in the mean time I
draw every face that I see, for the sake of practice
; and it is so delightful to get one which is
different to every one else's. The other girls
would sit readily enough, but t/iey don't improve
one. Perhaps there is some one you knovv^, who
would like to have your portrait, and if they did
not mind it not being very first-rate, my drawing
might be a pleasure to them."

There is no one," said Esther, sadly at first.
Yes, there was George, who would care, but he
seemed lost to her now. The tears sprang to her
eyes ; and Frederica, watching her, wondered
vaguely at her look of forlornness. Then Esther's
face suddenly brightened, as though by magic.

Oh, yes ! there is Joe Bride ! " she cried.
He would not know anything about the drawing,
whether it was very good or not ; and he
would so dearly like to have a picture of me."

Joe Bride ! " repeated Frederica curiously.
Is that any one in Australia ? "

He is the sailor," answered Esther, " who
used to be so kind to me on the island, but I
forgot. You don't know anything about the
island. Joe is head pilot now."

I did not know that you ever lived on an
island," said Frederica. " It sounds so funny
and interesting. I should like very much to
hear about it some time if you would tell me ;
but it is tea-time. Let us go in together, and
afterwards we will come back here, and you can
look over my sketches, and tell me about the
island."

There was the faintest shade of patronizing
interest in Fred erica's manner. It was the sentiment
furthest from her thoughts, but her intelligence
was just of that kind which finds a little
difficulty in merging its sympathies in the life of
another. Esther's heart was bounding out in a
gush of enthusiasm towards her new friend. As
Frederica linked her arm within her own, and the
two girls went thus in to tea, Esther felt that her
hungry longing for kindness was at last partially

satisfied. Frederica had done nothing to excite
gratitude, she had simply offered to make use of
her schoolfellow, but poor Esther was ready to
pour out the treasures of her affection at Frederica's
feet.

That meal was different to any other she had
eaten at Bolin^broke House. The morsels dido



not seem to choke her as they had always done
before, and Frederica's attention seemed a shield
which protected her from ridicule. When Frederica
again took her arm as they returned to the
school-room, she could not help saying, *' How
kind you are to me ! "

Kind ! " repeated Frederica, surprised, and
yet pleased ; *' why, I thought that you did not
care that any one should take notice of you.
You seemed so silent and proud. I thought that
perhaps you looked down upon us ; and we,
though we are poor, are well-born. It is not for
us to force ourselves upon people's notice. When
I spoke of you to Aunt Theodosian, she said — "'

What ! " asked Esther, eagerly — for Frederica
had paused, in doubt whether to proceed — " Oh !
how could you fancy that I thought such things.
It was you who I feared might despise me."

How could I tell ? " said Frederica. " People
often look down upon others in England for being
poor ; and I am going to work for my living.

VOL. II. c

Aunt Theodosian said that the Isherwoods were all
proud, and that they were ' carriage people.' "

I don't know anything about their being
carriage people,' " said Esther, to whom the
phrase was a new one ; " but I think that Lady
Isherwood is very cross. I did not even know
that they were my relations, till I came to England
three months ago."

'' And were you brought up altogether in Australia
? " asked Frederica, becoming more interested.
^' And on an island ? You promised to
tell me about it,"

Delighted to find a listener who cared to hear,
Esther launched into a description of her island
life, with just such reservations as Sir Emilius'
warning, and her owen dawning sense of fitness,
made her feel were desirable. Nor, it is needless
to say, did she make any confidence about
George Brand.

"It is very beautiful," said Frederica, referring
from an artistic point of view to Esther's word-sketch
of the Cape and the lighthouse. " It
sounds like a scene out of the ' Pirate Lorna of
the Fitful Head, you know. I can't help thinking
that it would make a pretty picture, if I could
only see it. I should like to call it the ' Fitful
Head,' and to draw you as Brenda standing
against the rocks, with the sea creeping in towards

you ; but I am very stupid, and I cannot
imagine what I have not seen."

"But I could describe it," cried Esther. "I
can see it at this moment, just as though I were
there. It would be a winter afternoon, and the
sun setting. The lighthouse, all red against the
sky, which would be purple, and the sea grey,
tipped with foam, and gulls swirling round in the
air above the rocks — "

"You can see it," said Frederica, '* because
you have lived there ; but I cannot."

"It is not only places that I know," said
Esther. "There are others that I have never
seen or read of. And people too. They stand
out in my mind like pictures. It is as though
there were another world, which we cannot see
with our outward eyes."

That is having imagination," said Frederica,
in a sad tone. " I have none — or very little.
They all tell me so ; and I can feel that the want
of it will prevent me from ever doing anything
great, though I love Art so dearly."

To Esther this was a real palpable grief — one
with which her whole nature could sympathize.
She ventured softly to touch her new friend's
hand.

"But after all," continued Frederica, "it is

portrait painting that I want to succeed in ; and

C 2

every one tells me that I have a good eye for a
likeness. Would you like to see some of my
drawings ? But the best are at home ; these are
only rough things done in my spare time." She
turned over her portfolio, and showed Esther a
collection of sketches — heads in pencil and chalk
mostly of persons unknown, but several of girls
at the school. There were a great many studies
of a large-featured, impressive-looking old lady,
who had a great air of self-assertion, and glared
from the paper in a stony way that was somewhat
alarming. " That is Aunt Theodosian," exclaimed
Frederica. ' I live with her. I am an orphan,
and she takes care of me."

And this! — why, this is Bernard — Mr.Comyn,
I mean — " exclaimed Esther, pouncing upon a
spirited but very unfinished sketch of a man's
head, that had been dashed off, evidently in
haste, upon the leaf of a note-book. *' Do you
know him ? "

*who is Mr. Comyn?" asked Frederica,
blushing deeply. '' I am almost ashamed to tell
you how I did that. I don't know the original.
It was one afternoon at Westminster Abbey.
He was standing exactly opposite me, and there
was something in his face that interested me.
He was listening very intently to the sermon,
and yet all the time he seemed to be inwardly

sneering at the preacher. Then the organ began
to play, and his expression changed completely.
I could see that he was very fond of music. I
love it too. They say that musical people are
always sympathetic — that made me want to draw
him. I have never seen him since."

"He is Lady Isher wood's cousin," said Esther.
*' He dined at their house the first evening I spent
in England."

'rit is a face with a good deal of power," said
Frederica, musingly, and then she silently put
the drawing away. There was a tenderness in
her way of handling the picture, as though it
were a thing precious to her. Her interest in
Esther deepened considerably, but she hardly
breathed even to herself, that it was because of
the new girl link with this unknown hero.

CHAPTER II.

AN Afternoon AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE.

Esther was much more happy now at school.
She no longer felt the terrible oppression of
solitude and misconception which during the
first two months had been so terrible to her. It
is difficult to convey what Frederica's kindness
meant to her, and what a fount of gratitude it
opened in her parched heart. It was not only
that Frederica was gracious to her, and took her
under her wing as it were, in a sweet protecting
way, bringing her into the circle of her own
interests, and helping her with her lessons,
solving for her difficulties that had seemed insoluble
; but it was the satisfaction of that starving
need of sympathy and affection, of which
the poor girl had been so keenly conscious.
Never since the death of her mother had she
had a woman friend whom she could love and
admire. To look up to some one was a requirement
of Esther's nature. Her shy sensitiveness

held her back from ordinary companionship with
girls of her own age, and that would, too, have
been insufficient to her wants. A friend, to her
meant far more than the word in its ordinary
acceptation.

Frederica was touched by Esther's devotion.
She also had her clearly-defined aspirations, and
she too felt the need of expansion. She confided
to her new friend the ambition of her life. This
was to study as a portrait painter, in time attain
to an independent income, and a studio of her
own, and in the years to come, to provide a home
for her two sisters, who were little girls in the
charge of a relative of their mother's. Frederica's
nature had been cramped and narrowed by the
grinding influence of poverty, and contact with
vulgarity of the kind which showed itself in a
perpetual self-assertion, and vaunting of former
greatness. But the girl was too innately refined
to have become vulgar by association. Her
training made itself evident in a little reticent
pride, a slight soreness on the score of poverty, a
patient industry, and confidence in her own
efforts, to procure her future independence, and
to Esther she was everything that was noble and
self-devoted.

Esther listened reverentially to everything that
Frederica told her, admired her for her talent and

ambition, and was always ready to pose herself asa
model at her friend's desire. When, after a succession
of attempts, one was finished to Frederica's
liking, Esther carefully packed it, and sent it by
the Australian mail to Joe Bride, with a letter
assuring him of her well-being, and begging for
news of the Overstones, of the Pilot Station, and
of Mr. Lydyiard and his colony of settlers.
Esther told Frederica about Mr. Lydyiard, and
in a shy, embarrassed manner mentioned George,
touching upon his pleasant manners, and his disinterested
kindness, which was magnified in poor
Esther's mind to the height of heroism, but not
confiding the love story which shed a glow over
the island memories.

There was nothing: in Frederica, sweet and
sympathetic as she was, to draw forth confidence
about a love affair. She held herself aloof from
the schoolroom talk about flirtations and beaux,
making no secret of her contempt for such
subjects. Her soft superiority was never disturbed
by such-like tattle. Perhaps she had her
own shrine at which she worshipped secretly, but
if so, it was too sacred to be spoken about. She
openly proclaimed her conviction that Art and
the profession were sufficient to sweeten life, and
that the vulgar idea of having a lover, was lowering,
and quite beneath her gentle seriousness.

Esther had already begun to feel a little
modest shame about her love, and Frederica's
openly-avowed sentiments made her hug her
secret closer to her own bosom. She confined
herself to talking about her past life apart from
Georore Brand, dwelling: with a kind of tender
home-sickness upon the beauty, the wildness and
vastness of the island, as compared with this
prim English civilization.

Frederica listened to Esther's descriptions, with
but a vague comprehension of experiences so far
removed from her own. But they opened out
another vista in her mind. She pondered, was
interested, and felt, though she hardly framed
the thought, that there was that in Esther's
nature which supplied a want in her own. This
was to be found in Esther's susceptibility to
every abstract influence — her enthusiasm and
yearning after a high impersonal good, expressed
more in manner than in words. Frederica, with
a great deal of surface grace and sensibility,
touched a certain depth, but went no further.
She loved music, and particularly music of a
higher order. Mozart's precise combinations of
harmony delighted her, and she played Schumann
and Beethoven with all the orthodox expression,
and a good deal of natural taste. But she did
not grasp more than the sentiment of the composition,

while Esther, though she would have
failed utterly to interpret it, felt herself lifted
up to . the inspiration which had given it
birth.

It was that touch of genius in Esther's organization,
which filled her with vague yearnings
that seemed to mock at her cramped personality,
and that her meagre education utterly failed to
satisfy. There is always, it seems to me, something
far more pathetic in the nature which
turns wistfully towards the light, tied down by
the painful consciousness of inability to rise to it,
than in the trained intelligence that strives after
a definite goal, and has at least the joy of labour
and incentive, though it may also have to endure
the bitterness of disappointment. In Esther
circumstances had made it impossible that she
should cherish any distinct visions of a spiritual
or human good. She wished for nothing (to her)
possible of accomplishment, but the very indefiniteness
of her longing deepened the sense of unrest.
It was as though her young soul was imprisoned
against its will, and was constantly leaping up in
an ill-directed and ineffectual effort to reach a
purer atmosphere.

This feeling is more common with women than
with men ; and more frequent in young, and
comparatively uneducated women, than in those

whose intellects have matured and been trained
to a precise limit.

It seemed to Esther that the spirit within her
was clamouring unintelligibly for a power of
expression. It thrilled at the sound of poetry or
music, or at the sight of beauty of colouring or
form, but that was not enough. *' Could I but
write," thought poor Esther to herself, as one
evening she paced the deserted school-room, with
a pencil in her hand, and the craving upon her,
with which many another woman who reads this
page will sympathize. " Could I but compose a
poem, or paint a picture, or even play with tit
execution and deeper expression, one of Red erica s
sonatas. I think I should want no higher joy."

But a woman does not do any of these things
without preliminary education and patient labour.
Art is of all mistresses the most difficult and
the most exacting in her demand for self-renunciation
on the part of her wooers. When
Esther had breathed forth her passionate ardour
in crude utterances, how bald, how miserably
tame and inadequate they seemed ! But she had
relieved her spirit, and she felt a thrill of a new
kind of happiness. Though she tore her verses
into minute fragments, a moment after they had
been conceived, they left behind a sweet satisfied
glow which seemed to pervade her whole being.

Frederica entered softly as she was standing at
the window, looking out into the wintry night
and the thickly falling snow. '' Why, Esther !
what are you doing here all alone ? "

Doing ! " repeated Esther, turning round with
the light in her face ; " nothing. I never do
anything, but I am thinking, and wishing — Oh,
Freddie, if I had only been educated like you : if
I had only been taught to play, or to paint, I
should be quite satisfied with life."

*' Are you not satisfied now ? " said Frederica.
*' And it is not only teaching that is wanted. Of
course people must learn, but they must have a
bent too. I can't quite make you out, Esther ;
you always seem as though you wanted something,
and you are clever, but not in any particular
direction. I daresay that you are much
cleverer in reality than I am ; I have always
loved music and drawing ever since I can
remember. By-and-by I shall go to the School
of Art, and then if work will make me anything
— Oh, if I could only pay back Aunt
Theodosian something of what she has spent upon
me, and save my sisters from being governesses.
There need be no more pinching and scraping
and trying to keep up appearances. It is that
which makes life hard."

I did not mean that," said Esther, her enthusiasm

softly quenched. " Money is very good,
but it is not the joy of creating, the knowing
that one's o^Yn ignorance could no longer cramp
one in."

Yes, it is Art — Art, that true musicians and
painters live for," said Frederica sadly, but still
placidly — " but I know what is in me and how
hiorh I can so : and I can never reach that. It is
the money that I think of — and the comfort —
but that is not being: a true Artist."

Esther had been three months at Bolinsfbroke
House when the Christmas holidays came.

All the other boarders, including Frederica
Talmadge, went to their own homes, but Esther
was in a homeless condition. Sir Emilius and
Lady Isherwood had shut up their houses in the
country and in London, and were abroad for two
years, and somewhat to Miss Binney's annoyance
had requested her to take charge of their niece
during the vacation. Miss Binney did not much
care to be troubled with the amusement of a
solitary boarder, and was not disposed to give
up a visit she had planned to some relatives in
the south of England ; so Esther was left with an
elderly governess as friendless as the girl herself,
who occupied her time principally in replenishing
a dilapidated wardrobe, and allowed her charge todo
much as she pleased.

Esther was far happier in the deserted house
than if it had been full of giggling school-girls.
Lower Norwood would have been paradise had
Frederica remained with her, but the next best
thing to Frederica's society was the pleasure of
working for her ; and she had planned a pretty
surprise for her friend in the shape of a case for
her pencils and chalks, the outside of which was
to be embroidered with coloured silks.

When she was tired of needlework she had
the garden to walk in, and on clear frosty days,
when the ground was white with a crisp coating
of snow, and the bare trees looked like gigantic
branches of coral, it was more attractive to Esther
than when, later on, it had all the luxuriance of
summer vegetation. Snow was a new experience
to her, and the sight of the flakes falling made
her think of Hans Andersen's story of the " Snow
Queen," which hardly realizing, she had read to
Rod Overstone on the island.

At this time she spent a part of Lydyiard's
present in the purchase of a complete set of
Scott's novels and poems, literature to which,
Miss Cameron assured her, even the austere Miss
Binney could make no objection. Esther would
sit up late at night reading, and in the long
afternoon darkness before the lamps were lighted,
would people the deserted house with the

heroines she liked best, and the heroes who
most resembled George and Bernard Comyn.

One Saturday afternoon, having finished
Frederica's satchel, she was sitting over the fire
in the empty schoolroom devouring ' The Heart
of Midlothian,' when Marianne, the housemaid,
came in and said that " a gentleman was in the
drawing-room waiting to see Miss Isherwood."

Esther started to her feet, a sudden blush
sufi'using her face. She knew that her uncle was
not in England, and what gentleman but George
could wish to see her ! He had come at last —

her hero — her lover Marianne's next

words strengthened the conviction.

It's a young gentleman, Miss, dark and tall,
and very good-looking."

With her book still in her hand, Esther went
to the drawing-room, her heart beating violently,
while her fingers trembled so that she could
scarcely turn the handle of the door. She did so
at last, and entering timidly saw — not George
Brand — but Bernard Comyn, who was examining
the books laid out in prim order upon the table.

She had come in with a bright expectancy
upon her face, her cheeks aglow, and her eyes
dewy and downcast. Her extreme prettiness
came upon Bernard with a shock of surprise.
He had carried away from Berkeley Square, upon

the evening of her arrival, an impression of a
pale, desolate-looking creature, interesting, but
badly dressed, and utterly ignorant and forlorn.
Now he thought her the loveliest girl he had
ever seen.

Why ! *' he said, shaking hands with her.
You have grown so much fatter and brighter
that I should hardly have known you again. You
looked, when you came in, as though you expected
something wonderful to happen to you,
and I believe that you are half disappointed at
only seeing me. Isn't it true now 1 '*

It is true that I thought you were some one
else,*^ replied Esther, too confused to be anything
but truthful. " I had hoped — I had fancied —
but Fm very glad to see you, sir — Mr. Comyn, I
mean'*

That's right ; I am delighted to find that
you remember the first lesson I ever taught you ;
but I am not going to call you ]\Iiss Isherwood,
because if we are to be on those terms, it might
not be quite proper for me to take you out, as I
came to do. I am sorry, Esther, that you were
disappointed. I did not think you had so many
friends that you would not be pleased to seeme."


Oh how you mistake ! " cried Esther, with
her quick flush, " I think it is more than good

of you to come. I have often thought of you,
sir," she added shyly, " and of how kind you
were that first evening."

Then who was it who disappointed you,
Esther ? "

*' It was some one I knew in Australia," said
Esther, her lips quivering slightly ; " and I was
sorry, Mr. Comyn, for I am afraid that he cannot
know where I am, and I don't know how to tell
him."

Well, perhaps I can help you," said Bernard.
He has changed his abode perhaps. He might
be in the * Directory.' What is his name ? "

Esther looked down but made no reply, and
Bernard repeated the question in a more peremptory
tone. " I dare say there is a ' Directory '
here. What is his name, Esther ? "

It seemed to Esther as though the very
last words she could have pronounced ant that
moment were " George Brand." She opened her
lips, stammered, and looked piteously at Bernard
with her large beseeching eyes, as she said, *' I —
I'd rather not tell you, sir."

Bernard eyed her with a sharp displeased
surprise. Why should she not tell ? What did
she mean by her hesitation ? Could this young
creature have a love affair of which her friends
were ignorant ? It seemed impossible that any-vol.

II. D

tliino: vulgar or clandestine could be associated
with that face and voice. He was annoyed, but
told himself that it was no business of his. " Oh,
very well," he said ; "I hope you don't think
that I want to pry into your secrets. Let us
say no more about it. Perhaps I had better go
away. I intended walking to Sydenham."

An impulse, of the strength of which she
was hardly conscious, made Esther put out her
hand to detain him. '* Dont go," she said almost
imploringly.

*^ I won't if you don't wish it," said Bernard,
smiling at the childlike creature. " I must tell
y-ou what brought me here in the first instance.
Parkins came to my diggings yesterday with
a commission from the Isherwoods. They are
abroad, you know ; and he happened to mention
that you were spending your holidays alone at
school. I thought that sounded rather dreary
for a young girl like you. School-girls like to
be taken to see sights in the holidays — at least I
used to think myself preciously ill-used if I
wasn't ; and it struck me that there was a pantomime
going on at the Crystal Palace, and that
we might go to it together. I'm rather fond,
myself, of being made to laugh at nothing at all.
Should you like to go, Esther ? "

Esther's face beamed in a way that repaid him

for any trouble involved in an act of good nature
to a friendless little girl. Bernard had felt himself
in need of a walk that morning, and had
set off at a brisk pace towards Norwood. He
had suddenly remembered what Parkins had told
him the day before about Esther, and a vision of
the forlorn creature in her draggled black gown,
and with the sympathetic eyes which had interested
him in a vague, pleasurable way came
before him. '' By Jove ! " he thought, '^ I should
like to give the poor little thing a treat. I daresay
she has never seen a pantomime in her life "
so instead of walking on alone to Sydenham,
as he had vaguely intended, he turned in at the
gates of Bolingbroke House, and inquired for
Miss Isherwood.

I should like it very much," said Esther.

All riorht," said Bernard. " I'm so salad I
thought of it. Go and put on your bonnet, and
we'll start at once ; it is not far to walk, and I'm
uncommonly hungry after my tramp. We'll
have some lunch at the Palace, and see the
pantomime afterwards'*

Esther ran upstairs and put on her hat and
jacket, almost forgetting the pain of her disappointment
in the thought of the pleasure before
her. She left a message for Miss Cameron, who
had gone upon a shopping expedition to the

D 2

City, to the effect that Lady Isherwood's cousin
had come to take her for the afternoon to the
Crystal Palace.

'' And now," said Bernard, as the two stepped
briskly side by side along the frosty pavement,
tell me if I walk too fast ; now I want to know
how you get on at school."

*'I did not like it much at first," replied
Esther, "but I am getting on better now, Mr.
Comyn."

'' Call me Bernard," interjected her companion.
'rit is shorter — and like other people." But
Esther was as yet too shy for such familiarity.

It does not seem quite so hard now," she
continued ; '' and I have got into the verbs in
Ollendorff."

I don't know anything about Ollendorff,"
said Bernard ; " but if I had been set to teach
you French, I should first have drummed a few
nouns and conjugations into your head, and
then I should have given you an intensely
interesting book, and the dictionary, and I
should have allowed you to puzzle it out by
yourself. That is how I learn languages."

'' I am sure that I should get on much better
in that way," answered Esther.

"And you like school on the whole?" said
Bernard. " I was sure that you would, if you

really wanted to improve yourself. I dined in
Berkeley Square the night after you left.
Hermione told me where you were. I could not
help thinking of you afterwards, and picturing
your forlorn look ; but I did not know that you
were going to be left here for the holidays. . . .
They shut up Barwold and went oJ0f in a hurry.
Charles lost a lot of money on the Cambridgeshire,
and there was a regular blow up ; but
Hermione should have arranged for you to go
somewhere during the vacations. I could have
done nothing, because I live in bachelor's quarters
; and besides, I should not have known what
to do with you."

Esther laughed at the notion. There was
something about Bernard, which made it impossible
to be shy with him. "Have you made
any friends yet ? '" he asked.

I have one friend," replied Esther ; " at least
I think that I may call her a friend. She is so
clever and very pretty ; her name is Frederica
Talmadge ; she draws and plays beautifully."

"That is good," said Bernard, nodding approvingly.
" There is nothing like music."

But it is her drawing that she thinks most
about." Esther went on — " She means to be a
portrait painter, and to earn her own living and
have her sisters to live with her. There are three

of them, but they are all scattered ; they are
orphans, and Frederica is the eldest."

And your friend is studying painting ? "

She is going to the School of Art as soon as
she leaves Miss Binney, and means to work therefor
two years. Now, she is always drawing
people's likenesses, and you can't think how good
some of them are."

^'You should keep to Miss Talmadge," said
Bernard, with his air of decision. " I like your
description of her. It is so pleasant to hear of a
woman with an interest in life beyond millinery
and frivolity."

*' Frederica only cares for her profession," said
Esther. " Do you not like women ? "

I like them," said Bernard, *' as one likes
things that are only good to look at it. I like a
pretty woman as I like a fine picture — hardly so
much ; for in the one there may be inspiration.
Of course, there are exceptions ; but I am speaking
mostly of young girls. I don't go out a great
deal ; but almost all I meet are very silly."

Esther was silent, hardly knowing how to
answer so sweeping a condemnation.

'' I don't mean that I think you silly," said
Bernard, fancying that she did not answer
because she was piqued ; ''I hope you don't
imagine that I implied anything rude. And I

don't consider you a grown-up young lady. What
I meant to convey was, that women, as a rule, are
irrational, and seldom precise in their statements.
I would not admit their evidence in a law court,
for instance, or a scientific inquiry. It is always
women who believe in ghosts, and who take to
spiritualism, and the confessional. Here we are
at the Palace. Why, what a colour you have ! — a
walk like this every day would do you a great
deal of good. Keep close to me ; you had
better take my arm. There seems to be a
crowd."

He piloted her through the entrance and into
the body of the building. Esther had been to the
Palace before. Once or twice Miss Binney had
given her boarders a treat, and had taken them
solemnly to a concert of classical music, or
walked them round the Aquarium and Picture
Gallery. But to walk two and two with a party
of giggling schoolgirls — Frederica had never
been with them, for these expeditions were
always made on Saturday, the day on which she
returned home — was a very different thing to
being escorted by Bernard.

He infused quite a new spirit into everything,
and stopped as they went along to tell her something
that he thought would interest her. He
was fond of imparting information, and was a

little egotistical, but his egotism was so frank
that it became rather pleasant than otherwise.

He took Esther into the dining-room overlooking
the wintry garden, in which the ponds were
to-day frozen, and the lawns carpeted with white,
and they ate their luncheon together — not a very
recherche repast — but it did not occur to Bernard,
as it perhaps might have done to another young
man, to add any dainties to the bill of fare on
Esther's account. He was hungry and enjoyed
his meal, and his frank good-humour placed
Esther at her ease, and gave her a sensation of
camaraderie and light-heartedness which she had
not often experienced.

After luncheon they walked about the building
till it was time for the pantomime to begin.
Esther enjoyed the spectacular effect, and the
ballet, and laughed at the mummers, and held
her breath with wonder and delight as the 
descended. It was a new enchantment
to her. She was still child enough
to feel that the lovely unfolding flowers, the
sylph-like forms, the wands and jewels, the soft
radiance of pink and pearl, were all a part
of this wonderful fairyland. I think that she
would have enjoyed a good drama more, but
this was sufficiently beautiful and satisfying to
make her heave a deep sigh of pleasure. She

would rather not have seen the ugly clown and
tawdry columbine, as they skipped on to the
stage in front of the commonplace drop-scene,
and uttered an involuntary sound of disappointment.
" You won't care for this," said Bernard ;
'let us go and listen to the organ for a few
minutes before we go home."

*' I have been so happy," said Esther, gratefully.
" Thank you for bringing me."

Bernard smiled at her. '' If you had been
brought up in England, you would have become
thoroughly diasee by a long course of Christmas
pantomimes. I ought to thank you for letting
me see unsophisticated enjoyment."

They left the theatre, and sat down in the
great hall, where the lamps were all lighted and
the organ sending forth full-toned harmonies.
Bernard listened in evident enjoyment of the
music. Groups of holiday-makers strolled past
them. There was nothing poetic in the Cockney
element which abounded in the place, and there
was a confused buzz of footsteps and voices
mingling with the music, but it seemed to Esther
as though she and Bernard were alone together in
the vast building, and had contrived to skim the
cream off the pleasures provided there.

Presently Bernard looked at his watch.
Come," he said ; " it is fretting late, and it

would not be right of me to keep you out too
long. Take my arm again, and we'll walk home
if you are not tired."

It was snowing slightly when they reached the
door, just enough to sprinkle the pavement ; and
while Bernard was putting up his umbrella, a
woman with a basket of violets and Christmas
roses touched his arm. Esther eyed the flowers
wistfully, and Bernard seeing her glance bought
a nosegay and gave it her. " You must hold up
your gown," he said, tucking her arm tight under
his. They walked home together beneath the
umbrella, with the keen air and tiny snow-flakes
driving against their faces.

The gas was lighted in the drawing-room at
Bolino-broke House, and as Esther and Bernard
stood on the doorstep the notes of an impromptu
by Schubert, which some one was playing within,
were faintly audible outside.

Who is playing ? " asked Bernard, humming
the refrain.

'' It must be Frederica Talmadge," cried Esther,
excited at the prospect of meeting her friend.
It can be no one else. Oh, you must come
and see her. Do come in."

Bernard waited for no further invitation, but
followed Esther into the drawing-room.

Frederica was sitting at the piano, playing to

wile away the time, without any notes. She
had taken off her hat and jacket, and the outline
of her graceful figure showed plainly in her dark
merino gown. The light from the gas chandelier
fell upon her oval, serene, face and fair hair, which
was brushed smoothly and fastened in a knot
behind her head. She looked up at Esther with
her full-lidded, and rather prominent, violet eyes,
and nodded smilingly.

So you have come back at last," she said,
without pausing in her playing, but she ceased
abruptly as she caught sight of Bernard in the
doorway.

*' Oh, Frederica ! " exclaimed Esther, ** I am
so glad to see you. This is Mr. Comyn. We
have been at the Crystal Palace, and have seen a
pantomime. Oh, Frederica, go on. Mr. Comines
so fond of music."

Frederica hesitated modestly for a moment ;
then continued where she had left off.

CHAPTER TIL

Aunt THEODOSIA.

When Frederica tied finished her piece of
music she left the piano, and acknowledging
with a little bow Bernard's thanks turned to
Esther. " Now I must tell you what brought
me this afternoon, and indeed I ought not to
stay much longer, for Aunt Theodosian will be
uneasy. She is concerned that you should be
spending your holidays here alone, and has
written you a note, asking you to return with
me. There is a train from Lower Norwood at
half-past six o'clock, which wall take us direct to
Gloucester Road Station, if you can get ready intime."


Esther felt a thrill of alarm at the thought of
encountering Aunt Theodosian, of whom she had-preconceived
a terrifying impression, but the
delight of beinsr with Frederica in her owt home,
was sufficient to outweigh every other consideration.

She opened Miss Talmadge's note, which
was written after the style of the polite letter -
writer, upon thin, cheap paper, and in a flowing
hand, with a great many flourishes difficult to
decipher.

13, Magenta Terrace,

South Kensington.

"My Dear Miss Isherwood,

Pray excuse the informality of thus
addressing you, without the preliminary compliment
of a call, from one, who during the early
part of a varied career, of which twenty years
were spent in visiting among the highest circles
in England and on the Continent, became in a
casual manner acquainted with several members
of the distinguished family of your uncle, Sir
Emilius Isherwood. The dear friend of my
youth. Lady Susan Starkie, being remotely connected
with a branch of the Isherwood family,
and herself a distant cousin of my own, I may
claim the ties of a mutual ancestry as an excuse
for inviting you to return, sans ceremonie, with
my niece Frederica, and to pass a few days
beneath my roof

Believe me,

My dear Miss Isherwood,
'* Yours, with sincere regard,

*theodosian Glencairne Talmadge."

Esther looked up somewhat bewildered from the
perusal of Miss Talmadge's involved sentences.

'' Of course you'll come," said Frederica; *taunt
Theodosian wishes it particularly, and I cannot go
home so late by myself"

That there should ever have been any possibility
of such a proceeding seemed to Bernard so
unconventional, that he looked with surprise and
some pity at the slight, pretty girl who ought
certainly not to be allowed out so late in the
evening, even in the company of another of her
own age and sex ; but he did not venture to
make any suggestion of impropriety. " Would
you play something more ? " he said, when Esther
had gone upstairs to prepare for the visit.

Frederica moved to the piano with a little
hesitation. " You play yourself, don't you ? "
She said, pausing, and fingering the instrument.

Yes," said Bernard, looking at her in surprise.
*' How did you know that ? "

^' Oh ! I don't know— I guessed it, I think,"
replied Frederica, in her even, agreeable tone, in
which there was very little variation of inflexion,
but she blushed slightly as she spoke. '' I thought
I mean I fancied, that you cared very much
about music."

'' Music is worth caring for," said Bernard,
raising his chin in dogmatic assertion of a fact

that Lad not been questioned. " So are many
other things. I am not one who takes life at a
dead level ; but the pleasures which are best
worth seeking, have the minority of followers.
Music, literature, and art are not not such
fashionable pursuits as boating, dancing, or lawn-tennis.
You have been well taught, I see, and
must have practised much. From whom have
you had lessons ? "

Herr Stolzheim teaches at the school," replied
Frederica. '' I believe that he is considered a good
musician, and I have practised a good deal, but
I have had so few opportunities of hearing high-class
music."

To hear good music is not of such great
importance as people fancy," said Bernard. "It
certainly imparts correctness of style and execution,
but that you have got already. It is not
there that you fail — "

Where then ? " asked Frederica, her placidity
a little stirred by Bernard's suggestion of faultfinding.
*' Of course I know that I fail in all
points, but which is the particular one ? Tell
me, please ; I like to learn."

You want emotion," said Bernard, '' scope,
culture. You are literal and formal. Do you
understand what I mean ? You have the executive
capacity. I hope you are not offended."

Oh, no ! I am not offended," answered Frederica,
with the docility of a conscientious learner.
It would be petty to mind criticism ; but music
is not the thing nearest me. I will try to improve.
I want to do everything as well as I can.
There is no use in trying to be anything, unless
one makes up one's mind to work and to take
hints."

''Do you want hints about anything else?"
asked Bernard, interested.

I want to know a great deal, particularly
about painting, but perhaps that is not your
line."

You make me feel ashamed," said Bernard.
'' I have no line. It takes a long time before a
fellow of no decided proclivities can make up his
mind as to his vocation. I only know that I am
always intensely bored by what seems to interest
other people. Society appears to me extremely
puerile. It's a nuisance, and I hate modern
sestheticism."

^yon't 7/ou play something ? " said Frederica.

Bernard went to the piano without any hesitation.
His long flexile fingers fingered the keys
with that masterliness which is most observable
in masculine execution. He began in a negative
manner, a complicated composition of the German
school, which seemed to interpret, with a hundred

subtle variations of harmony, the same central
theme. His playing gave the impression of
depth, or, as he expressed it, scope. Sometimes
it warmed to passion, but mostly suggested the
idea of a laro:e fund of enthusiasm held in check.
While he was playing, Esther returned with her
bag, and with the bunch of flowers Bernard had
given her pinned into her dress. " It is too dark
for you to be out alone," he said ; " I will see
you home."

Oh, pray don't trouble to come," said Frederica
; *' our house is only a minute's walk from
the Gloucester Road Station."

It is too dark," repeated Bernard ; " I have
nothing to do. I may as well return to my
chambers by South Kensington as by any other
way." He took up Esther's bag, and walked with
the two girls to the station, seeing them into the
train, and taking his seat beside them.

Miss Talmadcre lived in a terrace, in one of the
small streets leading out of Gloucester Road.
She impressed upon her friends that the situation
was genteel, though her neighbours were not
quite of her own social status ; and there were
advantages in being near the Underground Railway
and the Museum. She occupied a tiny house,
which had miniature bow-windows and area-railings,
and a low door with a brass knocker. It

VOL. II. E

was a great trouble to her, that the owner of the
next house had a plate upon his gate, and that
her neighbour opposite kept a lodging-house, and
exhibited a bill in the window ; but she herself
was a lady of independent means, which, if
slender, seemed to be elastic.

This is our home," said Frederica, indicating
number 13, which was almost in darkness.

Bernard lifted the knocker in a sounding ,
and after waiting a few minutes they
heard a scuffling, and heavy tread in the passage,
an undoing of bolts and bars, and finally the
door was opened an inch upon the chain, and a
nose protruded cautiously from behind it.

It's only me, Aunt Theodosian," said Frederica.

Bless you, my child ! It did not sound like
your knock ; — and you've brought Miss Isherwood.
I'm obliged to be so particular with valuables in
the house — heirlooms, my dear. Come in. Miss
Isherwood. I am charmed to welcome beneath
my roof a distant connection, if I may say so, by
blood. Frederica has told you, I am sure, that
my dear friend. Lady Susan Starkie, was a third
cousin of Sir Giles Isherwood — your grandfather,
my love ; and Lady Susan was fourth cousin to
my mother, who was the great-grand-daughter of
the Earl of Glencairne — a title now extinct. But
you are standing in the cold."

All this had been spoken with such extreme
volubility, that the time occupied in its utterance
was shorter than might be imagined. Esther
was hustled into the narrow passage, while Miss
Talmadge still mysteriously blocked up the doorway.


The porter," she said. " No, don't enter ;
thank you. The servants will carry Miss Isherwood's
luggage upstairs." Miss Talmadge spoke
with the dignity of a lady who had a retinue at
her call, but of which the only sign visible at
present, was a dirty little maid who looked twelve
years old, and had hurriedly lighted the gas from
a flaring dip she carried in her hand. " Where
is it from, my dear ? " the old lady added, in an
audible tone aside to Frederica, " the Metropolitan
Station ? — then it is two pence, not a penny more ;
and leave it on the door-sill, if you please. I
can't have my stair-carpets dirtied ; and that's
the way half the burglaries in London are committed.
These men find their way into genteel
houses under pretence of porterage, and take
plans of the premises. I know it for a fact."

'' Aunt Theodosian ! — oh ! hush, please ; you
can't see in the dark," exclaimed Frederica. " It's
not a — a porter; it's Mr. Comyn, Lady Isherwood's
cousin, who has been so kind as to see us
home."

E 2

uNivERsrrf Of iii«^

Oh, my love, how very remiss I — why did
you not introduce Mr. Comyn before ? A cousin
of Lady Isherwood's — pray excuse my shortsightedness
; but one has to be so careful with
valuables, you know. Then you must be the son
of my dear friend, Lady Susan Starkie's third
cousin, a daughter — no — let me consider — the
only daughter of Sir Edward Oldershanks, with
whom during my visiting life I was upon intimate
terms. I know all about your family, Mr. Comyn.
Now you must do me the pleasure of partaking
of a cup of tea, or a glass of sherry ; not a glass of
sherry — I insist, really — or I shall feel that you
are offended with me for my ridiculous blindness."

Bernard was constrained to enter the narrow
hall where Esther was standing. Fred erica was
blushing uncomfortably, and with her arm in
that of her friend, was about to lead the way
down-stairs, to a little parlour on the basement
used by the family on ordinary occasions, when
Miss Talmadge's voice arrested her. " Frederica,
you are forgetting, my love — the drawing-room is
here."

Miss Talmadge opened a door upon her left, and
ushered her visitors into an apartment pervaded
by a mingled smell of pepper and turpentine,
which sent Bernard off into a fit of sneezing.
The old lady hastily turned up the gas, and

motioned them into two arm-chairs covered in
red cotton velvet, with a gorgeously worked
footstool before each, and a table, in the centre
of which was a vase of paper flowers, between
them. The room had a cold, desolate look.
The furniture was all very shiny, and the walls
were profusely ornamented with cheaply-gilt
brackets, and oil paintings, in tawdry frames.
Miss Talmadge herself was imposing enough.
She was both tall and robust, with strongly-marked
features, and a very straight back. She
wore an old-fashioned, violet, checked silk gown,
made very full round the waist, and trimmed
with several rows of that coarse lace which is,
I believe, called Yak. Her dress had wide sleeves,
below which were full muslin ones, terminating
round the wrist in a band of narrow embroidery.
She dressed her abundant, dark brown front in
curls, fastened with a comb low down upon her
cheeks, and wore a cap trimmed with imitation
lace, and some tawdry artificial flowers. She
also talked very fast, and had a way of mincing
her words, which gave her speech an affectation
of fineness.

"And now, Mr. Comyn, I insist upon your
partaking of a glass of sherry. It is some that
my late father bottled, and he knew a good glass
of wine when he tasted it. A finished gentleman,

Mr. Comyn, was my father," added Aunt
Theodosian, with an impressive nod of her head.
*' ' Beau Talmadge/ as His Royal Highness the late
Duke of Cambridge — with whom my father was
in youth upon terms of intimacy — used to call
him. Frederica, will you ring the bell for the
sherry and biscuits ? — or perhaps I had better go
myself, for I have a new maid, Miss Isherwood,
and she has hardly yet acquired my ways''

Frederica blushed again with the consciousness
of the solitary drudge below - stairs, but Miss
Talmadge left the room with a dignified, protesting
air, as though she were not accustomed
to such menial offices, and presently returned
bearing a tray, upon which was a plated biscuit-tin,
ornamented with a coat of arms, and a
decanter of muddy sherry. She poured out a
glass, and Bernard contrived to swallow it without
making a wry face, and delighted Miss Talmadge
by admiring an oil painting of the late Colonel
Talmadge in full uniform, that hung upon the
wall opposite. She told him, with tears in her
horny old eyes, that the family had fallen into a
state of decadence, and that she and her nieces
were now the sole representatives of a distinguished
line of ancestors. " And when I think,
Mr. Comyn, that my grandfather drove his coach-and-four
— but it is the consciousness of birth

which sustains me," added Aunt Theodosian impressively,
" and we must reflect that the workings
of Providence are inscrutable. That is
always a consolation'

Bernard remarked that Providence, like the law
of gravitation, was a comforting solution to various
problems.

** It's a Higher Power," replied Miss Talmadge,
'rand through all my varied experiences I have
seen no reason to doubt its omnipotence. There
are things, Mr. Comyn, which are beyond our
control, and the extravagance of our grandfathers
is one of them. There was my father, who would
drink his bottle of champagne — the most expensive
that money could buy — every night of
his life. But there is something sustaining in
the feeling that one has inherited a refined taste.
You can't deceive me in champagne."
Bernard rose to take his leave.
*' You must come to see me again, Mr. Comyn,'
said Miss Talmadge, warmly shaking his hand.
We are blood relations, you know. People may
despise a pedigree, but an old woman who is
the lineal descendant of the Earls of Glencairne,
knows how to hold her position, though her
means may be incompatible with her birth; so
you must come to luncheon or to dinner some
day when you are not engaged with your cousin,

Lady Sherwood, who must naturally absorb much
of your attention when she is in town. She was
a great beauty, I believe. I think I met her
once at a reception in the house of my dear
friend and connection, Lady Susan Starkie, but
that was in the days when I led a visiting life
and went into dinner company. Oh yes ! you
must dine with me. I have an excellent cook,
for I am quite aware how much you London
gentlemen who have clubs, and that sort of thing,
think of the cuisi7ieJ^

'' My love ! " she whispered confidentially to
Esther, when she had returned from letting
Bernard out, " you must not betray me if you
discover, while you are in my house, that these
two hands are my excellent cook. I vow to
you that I have been frequently assured that
Francatelli himself couldn't surpass me. But
then I have lived a great deal abroad, where it is
considered no degradation to a lady to toss up an
omelet. In England things are very different, and
though I flatter myself that I have a mind above
siich considerations, one does not proclaim these
little domestic secrets beyond the family circle."

Poor old lady ! She went downstairs to the
kitchen afterwards to ^' make the tea," refusing
Frederica's proffered assistance, and bidding her
conduct her guest upstairs.

But the tea was a long time in preparation,
and the two girls, sitting together in the little
parlour which looked out upon the area, heard
Miss Talmadge's voice directed in loud reproaches
against the offending drudge in the next room.
Her company manners were forgotten in her
wrath, and presently she entered heated and
irate, and setting down a salt-cellar upon the
table, arranged the knives and forks, talking
faster than ever, and forgetful for the moment
of Esther's presence. " It's not the least use,
Frederica — I did wish to make a proper appearance
— and the best silver out, which is a
responsibility in itself. Your friend must take
us as we are. It's no use trying to be different''

Dear aunt," pleaded Frederica, "if you would
not try, or if you would but let me help."

I know what is due to my birth, Frederica,
but this is more than flesh and blood can stand,
and my back that tired with arranging the
drawing-room — It's all that girl ; that obstinate,
ignorant idiot, and her conceit. It's past all
belief — to presume to tell me how a beefsteak
should be cooked. I, who have assisted at
banquets almost royal ; who have lived in dinner
company over twenty years of my life." Miss
Talmadge's voice rose to its highest pitch when
she touched upon this brilliant period in her

existence. *' And those were not repasts like the
paltry things a la Russe, that have become the
fashion in the last few years. Then there would
be a turkey at one end, and a splendid joint at
the other, and boiled capons, and tongues, and a
game-pie in the middle, to say nothing of seven
or eight side-dishes, and jellies, and creams, and
fal-deals, and what not. And there were the
massive silver covers, not an inch of the damask
showing. Ah ! a dinner-party in those days was
a grand affair ! You'll see nothing like it at
your uncle. Sir Emilius', Miss Isherwood, 111 be
bound, or anywhere else, for it's not the fashion
now, and fashion ranks before jurisprudence, as
you'll discover when you go into high society."

While Miss Talmadge was still haranguing her
audience, the little maid carried in the beefsteak,
and the meal was suffered to proceed, but not in
silence. Nothing could stem the torrent of Miss
Talmadge's reminiscences now that they .had
the stimulus of a fresh listener. " Mr. Comyn
seems a very prepossessing young man, my dear,"
she remarked to Esther ; " unmarried, I understand.
Is he an eldest son, or heir to any
property ? "

I do not think that he is very rich," replied
Esther.

Ah ! you never can tell what these young

men have. The Coins were considered a
wealthy family. I must look them up in Burke.
Very friendly, and quite at his ease ; a little
wanting, perhaps, in les petits solis, but that is
a deficiency which one must lay partly to the
style of education in the present day. You
never now see the finished gentlemen with whom
I was familiar in my youth. It showed a respect
for les convenances to escort you home. Poverty
compels us to walk alone, but in our class of life
it is not considered becoming. A lady need
never be insulted by impertinent attentions ; but
it is unfortunate when, as was the case with me,
her appearance is such as to excite observation.
I could never pass in a crowd — and you, Frederica,
are in that respect quite a Glencairne. I am
reminded, my love, of an adventure that befell
my very dear friend. Lady Susan Starkie, in the
streets of Paris. She was a very clever woman
plain, but with a dolly waist, and as narrow a
back as mine at seventeen, which is saying a
great deal, for I was always considered to possess
a perfect figure. Seeing Lady Susan behind,
you would have taken her for a young girl ; but
she was a grandmother, my dear — married
young, but still a grandmother. She had her
veil down, and paused to look in at the window
of a curiosity shop — for she had a passion for

bric-d-brac — when a man, who had followed her,
accosted her. ' Madame aime les a?itiquites ? '
said he. Lady Susan was not at all taken
aback. She lifted her veil, and showed him her
wrinkled little face. ' Et Monsieur aussi she
replied, and walked on. Lady Susan was an
esprit fort — a woman of mind — but then all my
friends were more or less intellectual. I laid
myself out for improving society ; and during
my visiting life I always devoted four hours
every day to the acquirement of subjects for
conversation — history, science, theology, the fine
arts. I was what is called a brilliant talker, and
could converse fluently on all these topics."

The clock struck nine. They were still sitting
over the tea-table, for the flow of Miss Tale
self-laudatory recollections had prolonged
the meal. 'aunt Theodosian," said Frederica,
Esther has been to the Crystal Palace this afternoon,
and I dare say she is tired, and would like
to go to bed."

I hope, my love, that Miss Isherwood will
always retire when she feels inclined," said Aunt
Theodosian ; and Esther rose to say good-night.
Stay, my dear ; I will precede you upstairs with
the light." She led the way to a little room
opening out of Frederica s, which was called by
Aunt Theodosian the guest-chamber.

My dear," said the old lady, kissing Esther,
"you must take us as we are. My house may
not be quite so grand a mansion as that of your
uncle, Sir Emilius Isherwood ; but it is clean
and airy, and, at all events, you are certain of a
hearty welcome. When Frederica told me that
you were all alone at that school, it went to my
heart. ' Let her come here,' I said, ' and be one
of us.' So you must stay as long as you can be
happy and contented ; but there is one thing I
must entreat of you, my love, and it is not much
to ask. I must beg that you will not sleep with
the counterpane upon you. You observe that it
is very fine, and will not bear much washing. It
came to me from my mother. It would get sadly
soiled at night, besides being unhealthy ; and if
it is taken off, and folded up — so— it will last
clean twice as long. As I said before, I should
not have ventured to ask you here from the
house of your uncle ; though no one knows better
than I do the customs of the aristocracy and
their mode of life, having been the pet and plaything
of the highest circles for twenty years of
my existence, but Frederica tells me that you
have been brought up in Australia. My dear
friend, Lady Susan Starkie, had a son who went
out there, and lost all his money, and his mind,
from a coup de soleil, and ended by marrying a

convict's daughter, so I know what people are

out there I must not keep you up now ;

and Frederica is next door, you know. . . You'll
find the room very warm, and not at all damp,
for the flue of the kitchen chimney goes up beside
your bed, and those curtains keep out the draught
from the windows nicely. They're beauties,
aren't they ? I bought them at the Earl of
Mountpleasant's sale ; and those in the drawing-room
came from the mansion of the Marquis of
Olney. You must notice the cornices tomorrow.
Good-night, my love. I hope you'll sleep well.
You must let me call you Esther, for you are
only a poor little orphan like Frederica, and my
heart warms to you."

Miss Talmadge went away, but an hour later
poked in her head again, this time denuded of its
front. *' My dear, are you asleep ? There is one
thing I did not mention, and as it's important
I'll tell you now in case I should forget it tomorrow
morning. I must beg you to lie upon
each side of the bed upon alternate nights, for
it is a spring mattress, and weak in the middle ;
and if you should hear any bells ringing during
the night, don't be alarmed, for I have had them
put upon all the doors and windows, and I pull
the strings always before I go to bed to make
sure they haven't been cut. Good night, my love ."

Soon after, as Esther was lying awake in the
dark, there came a faint tap at the door, and
Frederica, with a candle in one hand, and a
brush in the other, entered, and seating herself
at the foot of the bed, began to plait her fair and
abundant hair for the night. *' Are you comfortable,
Esther ? "

'^ Yes, dear Frederica," replied Esther, *' but
not at all sleepy."

Frederica went on plaiting in a ruminative
manner, and when she had finished sat for a
minute or two silent, with her hands clasped
round her knees. At last she said : *' Esther,
does Aunt Theodosian strike you as being very
peculiar ? "

I think she is exceedingly kind," replied
Esther, evasively. "And you know I am no
judge of peculiarity in other people, for I know
so few, and you always tell me that I am odd
myself."

"Yes, dear, but not in that way. I am
afraid that Aunt Theodosian is odd ; it strikes
me sometimes more than others ; but you must
never laugh at her. I could not forgive you if
you did. You cannot see on the surface her real
goodness, and devotion. I love her dearly, and
no wonder ; she has always denied herself, and
has made no merit of it. While my father was

alive — her only brother, a poor, curate with a
hundred and forty pounds a year, and a delicate
wife, and four children — she existed on the
merest pittance in order that she might help
him. Then when he died, and she took me to
live with her, I believe that she almost starved
herself, in order that I might wear decent
clothes, and go to a good school. Even now,
she does almost everything in the house herself,
and will not let me help her, because she says it
will spoil my hands, and injure my delicacy of
touch. It is not that we have anything to be
ashamed of," added Frederica, drawing herself
up with a little touch of pride, " for we are wellborn,
and independent, and that is the great
thing ; but Aunt Theodosian is very poor, and
latterly has had to struggle against losses, and todo
the best with a little. It is not surprising
that she should look back with pleasure to the
days when she was better off, and that she
should like to talk of Lady Susan Starkie and
of her visitor life. Still it must sound strange
to people who do not know. Do you think
that Mr. Comyn thought it curious her talking
so, and pressing him to dine ? "

Esther's quick sympathy perceived her friend's
drift. She saw that Frederica was a little
ashamed of her aunt's airs of gentility, and was

annoyed that they should have been made so
apparent to a stranger.

"I would rather he did not come to see us,"
continued Frederica, " unless he will take us
just as we are. It would kill me to think that
he laughed at Aunt Theodosian."

*'I am sure that he would not do that,"
replied Esther, warmly.

''I am sorry," pursued Frederica, thoughtfully,
"that he should have had to drink that sherry.
It is very nasty, I know."

Frederica sat twisting a long strand of hair
about her fingers, her face at first slightly
troubled, then reflective, and gradually a soft
smile crept round the corners of her mouth — a
conscious smile — accompanied by a scarcely perceptible
blush. " I wonder what he would say if
he knew that I had drawn him in Westminster
Abbey ; why, it must be two years ago," she said
half aloud.

Girl-like, she attached far more importance to
the fact than Bernard would have done had he
known of it. All that he thought of Frederica ashe
walked home to his rooms, was that she seemed
an intelligent, sensible girl, who was very nice-looking
and had aspirations considerably above
the type she represented. It was Esther who
had laid the strongest hold upon his imagination

VOL. II. F

and who, though she was such a child, and had
said so little, attracted him most powerfully.

There are persons who, without strong, objective
capacity for influencing others, have an
intense individuality, which makes it impossible
to incorporate them into any recognized type.
They pose themselves, as it were, in our imagination,
and however slight may be the intercourse
in which they figure, they make a distinct impression.
Esther, in spite of her unfledged youth,
had this peculiarity. Bernard also possessed it
in a remarkable degree.

His unlikeness to other people showed itself
most in an indifference to ordinary social aims.
But he was not wanting in vitality, either
emotional or intellectual. Life ran in no flabby
current for him. It seemed all too short for all
that had to be done in it, and the difficulty was
to prevent it from becoming chaotic. He kept a
little out of the common stream, making figurative
excursions, as it were, without any very
definite object, and never attaining to the standpoint
of impersonality. He was too conscious of
himself to possess the faculty of disinterested
consideration of human problems, and when this
is the case, it is difficult to map out a satisfactory
plan of existence.

CHAPTER lY.

A MEETING AT BURLINGTON HOUSE,

In spite of Aunt Theodosian's peculiarities, and
a certain irregularity in her mode of household
management, Esther enjoyed her visit to Magenta
Terrace.

It was so warming and comforting to feel
herself one of a household, no longer forlorn and
out in the cold ; and to be talked to with affectionate
garrulity, upon matters of domestic and
personal interest, was quite a new experience to
Esther, and awakened sentiments of gratitude
in a heart that had been starving for sympathy
and affection.

She became really fond of Aunt Theodosian in
spite of that lady's odd ways, which were sometimes
a little surprising, and she adapted herself
so readily to the household difficulties, and made
herself so useful on occasions, that Miss Ital
made quite threw off her company manners, and
came to regard her guest as one of the family.

F 2

Every spare moment of light, when they were
not sightseeing or out of doors, Frederica spent
at her easel. She already made a little money
by painting Christmas and birthday cards, and
would give her aunt her gains with a delightful
consciousness of partially discharging a debt; and
then, too, Bernard's criticisms had inspired her
music afresh, so that there was never any time
for idling. Sometimes, when Frederica was busy,
Esther would steal into the bright little kitchen,
where Miss Talmadge, without her front, and clad
in a mysterious brown flannel garment called a
cooking-dress, superintended the operations of the
small maid. Esther would unobtrusively begin
paring a dish of apples of which Miss Talmadge
Alas about to make a pie, or whip up the eggs
for a cake, or wipe the precious Glencairne forks,
which were far too valuable to be trusted in
the hands of the drudge, while Aunt Theodosian
rolled her pastry, or stirred her custard, and it is
needless to say — talked.

I never let Frederica help me'' she said
one day, nodding towards the basement parlour
where her niece was practising. "1 make a
principle of it, my love. It wouldn't have done.
She would always have been wanting to potter
about after me ; and what would have become of
her hands? She has got pretty hands — quite her

grandfather's hands, and he was thought the
most distinguished man in his corps — crowned
heads have remarked him ; and then Frederica
has her drawing, you know ; her heart is seton
that, and I don't say anything against it.
There's nothing degrading in Art. It's not like
being a governess ; it is dreadful to think of one
of our family being brought to that. My dear,
I have done without meat in the week while
Frederica has been at school, on purpose to save
something for the girls, to keep them from that.
It's for the sake of the ancestry ; but you must
never breathe it to Frederica. I daresay she'll
marry by - and - bye. A Glen cairn e never was
single for the want of asking ; and then what
I've saved will go to her sisters ; and if Turks
and Egyptians and Texan railways go up — for I
have speculated a little for the sake of the
pedigree — my love, she may be a rich woman yet.
The things I've done, my dear, to save money
would astonish you. I tell you because one
must talk to somebody ; but you must never
betray me to Frederica. She thinks that her
petticoats and collars and things are given out to
be washed, but it's these fingers that do them
while she is away at school. She would never
forgive me if she knew it. The reason why I
don't keep a grown-up servant is, because besides

the wages they are so artful and dishonest, and
as for condescending to eat the scraps, they'd
turn up their noses at a piece of fat or a dinner
without meat "

Aunt Theodosian quarrelled with her tiny abigail
upon the smallest provocation ; a spot of
rust upon a saucepan, or a trace of dirt upon
the doorstep, would drive her crazy. Precept
had to be enforced by example so frequently,
that it was quite a common occurrence with
Miss Talmadge, to spend a part of the day upon
her knees pipeclaying and scouring, while she
asserted loudly, for the benefit of those whom it
might concern, that it was impossible for a scion
of the Glencairnes to be degraded by menial
occupation.

One morning Frederica ventured to remonstrate
with her for cleaning her own doorsteps in
the sight of the neighbours. " Surely, dearest
aunt, it is not necessary."

Frederica," rejoined Miss Talmadge with
great dignity, " cleanliness is always necessary.
I have a mind above humiliation, and it is of no
importance to me what my inferiors think of my
conduct. I will not deny that if Mr. Comyn
were to pass by and to see me upon my knees, I
should experience some pardonable mortification,
but I choose my hours when that is not likely to

happen. At one time I did it at night when the
neighbours were asleep ; but no matter whether it
was midnight or early morning the policeman
was always at the gate, and accosted me with,
'Cant 1 help you, Ma'am?' as regularly aa
possible, till I began to fear that his attentions
miorht bear an ill construction, and desisted from
my nocturnal scourings; and, as I said to him,
It is a small mind, sir, that cannot rise above
circumstances,' "

But concerning these domestic trials Esther

o

was sworn to secrecy, and when Miss Talmadge
invited the friends of her youth to tea, which
happened once or twice during Esther's visit,
this lofty pose was abandoned, the drudge was
kept out of sight in the kitchen, and a tidy
waiting-maid hired for the occasion. Miss Tale
in her checked silk, seated in the ,
beneath the portrait of the late Colonel
Talmadge, would mention casually the names
of Sir Emilius and Lady Isherwood, as near
relatives of her young friend, and denizens of that
higher sphere in which she had formerly gyrated ;
while anecdotes of Lady Susan Starkie and of
the visiting life would be freely trotted forth from
her memory.

Miss Talmadge, in her brood-natured desire that
Esther should see all the sights of London,

organized a series of expeditions to the Tower,
Westminster Abbey, Madame Tussaud's, and such
places of cheap access which she thought might
be interesting to the Australian mind. They
usually started about twelve o'clock, after an early
luncheon and hurried toilette on Miss Tale
part, which was generally concluded in
the train. The old lady's dress was peculiar, like
her manners. At this time — it being winter —
she wore out of doors a long cloak of imitation
sealskin trimmed with crimson plush, and a silk
bonnet of the shape of a soup plate, crowned by
a nodding plume of cock's feathers.

Dear aunt," said Frederica more than once,
you know that I am quick with my needle. I
wish you would let me make you a black bonnet."

My love," replied Miss Talmadge, "it is of
no consequence what I wear. I have not spent
twenty years in a visiting life among the highest
circles, without bearing its stamp on my appearance.
My dear friend. Lady Susan Starkie, used
to say to me : ' It is no matter, Theodosian, in
what fashion you attire yourself. You always
grace your toilette, whether it be that of a queen
or of a peasant maid.' "

But Aunt Theodosian exercised no restrictions
upon her niece's taste ; she allowed her to purchase
and make up, the quietest of cashmeres and

lines, and took a pride in Frederica's apparel,
while she continued to twist up for her own wear
the faded and tawdry relics of her visiting life,
with a sublime self-confidence that had in it a
touch of heroism.

She always travelled with a large cotton
umbrella, a pair of overshoes, and a reticule of
purple cotton velvet, which contained a variety
of small articles, and hung upon her arm wherever
she went — whether to the receptions of her
friends, who, by some extraordinary process of
decadence, had all descended from the high
sphere of Belgravia to the lesser one of Camberwell
or Clapham ; or to second-hand shops where
she picked up cheap articles of furniture that
had formerly graced the mansions of the nobility.

Esther enjoyed the sightseeing, though it was
attended by several inconveniences. Miss Tale
always journeyed third-class by Underground
Railway, or took penny omnibuses down
Piccadilly or Regent Street, whence they walked
to their destination. She had a dangerous habit
of standing stock-still in the centre of a crossing,
while she descanted in a loud voice upon the past
glories of the Talmadges who had rolled in their
coaches through those very thoroughfares ; and
she invariably haggled with the omnibus conductors
over odd pence, and so attracted towards

her party a degree of unpleasant attention ; but
these drawbacks were of small importance to
Esther, who felt herself little more than a waif
in London.

The happiest days Esther spent were those in
which she accompanied Frederica alone to the
National Gallery, or the South Kensington Museum,
where they carried their luncheons in their
pockets, and ate while they talked. Esther would
lose herself before a favourite picture, and Frederica
would criticise, more occupied with technicalities,
than enthusiastic. This, Esther reflected,
must be because she meant to be an artist, and
wished to lose no opportunity of improving herself.

A winter exhibition of paintings by old masters
was at this time going on at Burlington
House, and the two girls went one day together
to see it.

Frederica had her note-book in her hand, and
was going the round of the galleries in a methodical
way, taking down her impressions of each
picture which attracted her — portraits she«especi-
ally studied — while Esther wandered aimlessly
through the rooms, now pausing in one, and now
in another, till at last, tired with walking, she sat
down upon one of the settees opposite a wonderful
picture, by Gainsborough I think, in which
a man skating seems about to step out of the

canvas to address the spectator. There was a
door upon the right of this picture, leading into
one of the first rooms, and though the place was
not crowded, a thin stream of people seemed to
be perpetually passing to and fro, framed for a
moment, and then disappearing. It was like
the tapestry in the bedchamber of a certain fairy
prince, where figures moved by in a continuous
never-endings string;.

Esther sat thinking. She felt, then, that solitude
of individual life, that often oppresses one
when in juxtaposition with a number of human
beings, whose hopes, interests, affections, all centre
in a different world to one's own. Naturally her
thoughts reverted to Georore Brand. It was
exactly a year since they had parted, and during
that year her life had completely changed its
course. Her habits of thought were altering
too. Her knowledge of the world, circumscribed
though it still was, was enlarging. Her affections
and sympathies were warming into healthier
life. Though she was unconscious of any actual
difference in herself, a great one had really taken
place, and that, just at the age when the feminine
nature is' most plastic, and the impressions
received from without, are most vivid.

Esther thought that George Brand's image
was quite set apart in her memory, and that no

lapse of time or change in her external relations
with the world could blur or fade it. And she
was right so far that it was distinct enough ; but
it was the impression that had been made upon
the craving ignorant heart of a young girl — not
the true imprint of the man himself. Esther
could not help feeling perplexed and anxious.
Why had he never sought her since her arrival
in England ? Could he have failed to receive
her letter ? Did he repent his disinterestedness
in having chosen her ? . . .

As she was picturing him again in her mind,
his very face and figure was framed for a second
in the doorway. He passed — George himself.
His eyes looked vaguely into the room where she
sat — not seeking hers, not fixed with any definite
aim — and then disappeared.

Esther started to her feet. The strings of her
heart seemed to distend and to snap. " George ! "
she cried faintly, with the feeling that he must
have seen her sitting there — that it was impossible
that he should not turn and seek her. She waited
a moment, but there was no sign of him, and then
came the mastering impulse to follow him. A
crowd stood before the skating picture, obstructing
the doorway, but she dashed through it ; and
then forgetting the way she had entered, took a
wrong turning, and found herself in the ,

confronted by smart waitresses behind
a counter laden with sherry and sandwiches.
He was not there. She retraced her steps, and
this time gained the vestibule, only to see the
figure she sought descending the stair, and passing
into the courtyard. Esther followed. There
was a string of carriages before the entrance, and
George had again disappeared. She saw him
a moment later, in the act of getting into a
hansom but as she was darting forward among
the horses to stop him, the cab drove off.

A policeman pulled the girl back to the pavement,
and she stood leaning against the wall with
a dazed feeling of utter helplessness and of keen
disappointment numbing all her energies. In
the short space of recognition her illusion had
suffered a shock. She could not account for it,
but she felt that it was so. It seemed impossible
that George could have materially changed
during the one year of separation, yet Esther felt
that that purposeless, facile-looking man, in his
faultlessly-cut coat and well waxed moustache,
was not the demi-god who had figured in her
daily and nightly dreams, and given shape to all
her yearnings after heroism and high goodness.
He was very handsome ; handsomer even
than she had pictured him in her memory. He
had just the same ease of bearing, the same full

dark eyes ; but there was something in his face
that jarred with the ideal image she had formed,
perhaps the faint, scarcely-definable trace of
coarseness, that is apparent as lightning to the
perception of a pure woman, though she does
not know how to express the almost inappreciable
shrinking it excites — or perhaps the absence of
reliable motive in life that was apparent upon the
handsome face.

It may appear improbable that all this should
have been conveyed in so short a time to Esther's
instinct or intelligence. It will be more readily
understood, if we reflect that knowledge of individual
character has been most frequently borne
in upon our minds, not after years of intimate
companionship or familiar study, but in startling
flashes of inspiration, after a long parting, or a
change in outward circumstances, or in inner
thinking, which has placed us for the moment
upon an impersonal stand-point.

"Esther," said a voice close to her elbow,
*what are you doing here ? Has anything happened
to you ? "

She looked round and saw Bernard. He was
standing a few paces distant, his earnest eyes
fixed upon her with a look of troubled surprise.
He observed that she was trembling, and that
her face was full of a suppressed excitement for

which it was impossible to account. She put out
her hand to him, almost without knowing what
she was doing, but with a strong confidence in the
mere fact of his presence, as a means of helping
and bringing her back to herself. . It seemed
to Esther as though the mainspring which had
ruled her life had suddenly snapped. It was
not the circumstance of having seen George, and
of having failed to attract his attention, that so
powerfully affected her. It was a disappointment
one might almost say a repulsion — far more
subtle, and less easily put into words. . . . But
there was Bernard looking as though he could
restore her old faith.

** Bernard ! " she cried, using for the first time
his Christian name. Her voice sounded like an
appeal for help, and that, with her movement
towards him, touched, while it puzzled him.

'' What is it, Esther ? '* he asked again. '' Are
you frightened ? Has any one spoken rudely to

She shook her head, but did not speak.

Come with me, and sit down," said Bernard.
He took her hand as though she had been a little
girl. There was something in his touch very
comforting to Esther. She pressed his hand with
more energy than she was aware. The grasp of
her little fingers thrilled through Bernard, She

was appealing to him, and all his nature answered
to the appeal. He led her into the building again,
and through the corridor to the refreshment-room.
Here he placed her upon a chair in a
corner, and brought her a glass of wine. *' Come,
drink this," he said in a kindly, authoritative
manner, watching her while she swallowed it,
'rand don't be frightened. Remember, I am hereto
take care of you. Now," he added, when
she had finished, " tell me what was the matter."
When she had first felt the touch of Bernard's
hand Esther's confidence had seemed to leap
towards him. She had had an impulse to tell
him the whole story about George. Not that she
expected him to help her ; no one could do that.
There seemed to have been awakened in her a
kind of fierce, maidenly instinct which made her
shrink from having George brought near her
through any act or will of her own. During the
short time that she had been in England she had
gained glimmerings of knowledge, of a kind that
comes to women partly by intuition, but mostly
by contact with other women. She had heard
the question of love discussed in that tentative
manner common to girls, and had gleaned that it
involved mysterious possibilities of which maidenhood
forbade the discussion. She had learned
that it is a reproach to a woman to thrust herself

upon the attention of a man, and she blushed at
the thought that she had run after George, who
had been her lover. But there was not this feeling
of embarrassment in connection with Bernard,
the only other young man in the world with
whom she was in any degree intimate. He had
inspired her with a sense of support. She
leaned unconsciously upon his judgment, and
felt that he would understand her ignorance and
helplessness. He was a man, and knew the
world, and he must be acquainted with this
strange delicate ground, over which she had no
guide but her warring, inconsistent impulses, and
maidenly tremors, and recoiling from a totally
undefined source of peril. The confession had
been upon her lips ; she had longed to make it
when her fingers had closed round his, but in
that busy, prosaic spot, with his clear eyes looking:
her through and through, as he asked the
commonplace question, " What is the matter ? "
she felt that she could not speak to him of
her lover, and of those vague delicious island
experiences. Something seemed to rise in her
throat and choke the words, and she sat silent
and downcast.

Well ? " said Bernard.

"It is nothing," replied Esther in confusion.
*' No one was rude to me, or — frightened me. I

VOL. II. G

thouorlit I saw — I mean I did see — some one that
I knew in Australia. I ran after him, and lie
drove off. That was when you found me."

Bernard looked at her with a sort of grave
disappointment. He too had had his recoil of
interest, but with it there had been a pang.
'' Esther, I am certain that you saw the person
whom you expected to come to you at Miss
Binney's. Tell me his name."

Esther was silent, with all the doubtful influences
at work within her.

Was it that man ? " asked Bernard with confirmed
suspicion but quickened interest.

Yes," replied Esther faintly ; " but I can't tell
you anything about him."

It is right that you should tell me, or someone,"
urged Bernard. " You seem very friendless.
You are only a child. If it were any one whom
you had met on board ship — " His mind leaped
to the most probable explanation of the mystery.
'^ You are very pretty, and don't know the world.
It is not right that you should have secrets."

Esther blushed, and a thrill went through her
that was not gratified vanity. He thought her
pretty then — too. She shook her head. '' It
was no one on board ship."

You won't tell me anything more ? "

She shook her head again.

Bernard drew back a little haughtily. '^ I
have no wish to force your confidence. I hope
for your own sake that you may never meet this
man, though I don't know, and don't want to
guess, what there is between you. You are too
young, and I trust too honest, to have a clandestine
love affair. That would be a shame to you,
and wrong towards Sir Emilius, who is your
natural protector."

His displeased tones deepened in Esther's mind
the sense of something to be ashamed of. Was
it possible that George himself had come to think
lightly of her ? It was impossible now to speak
to Bernard. There was nothing left but to be
silent and loyal till she knew George's mind.
Fidelity seemed an anchor to cling to. It was a
wife's crown to be loyal to her husband, and had
not George told her that they were as good as
married ?

"You have drunk your wine," said Bernard,
still distantly. " We had better go. I suppose
that you are with some one ; that you are not
here alone. I will take you to your friends, if
you will tell me where they are."

'' I am with Frederica ; I left her looking at
the pictures''

Well, we had better find her."

She rose from her chair, and their eyes met.

G 2

'* Please don't be angry with me," said Esther
with a child-like break in her voice.

Pshaw ! " said Bernard, with a little laugh,
and an upward movement of his chin, which was
peculiar to him when he was self-assertive or
annoyed. '' I am not angry ; I would have helped
you if I could ; that was my only reason for
seeming to pry into your concerns." Then disarmed
by the quivering of her lips and beseeching
look in her eyes, he added : " Well, I won't be
angry. You may keep your secret whatever it
may be ; I'll trust you. We'll drop the subject."

'* That is a nice girl, that Miss Talmadge," he
said, as they were walking through the rooms in
search of Frederica ; " the sort of woman I like —
modest, intelligent, and accomplished, and plucky
too ; but I couldn't stand much of the old lady.
Do you like being there '? It seems a queer sort
of menage!'

'' Oh, you must not laugh at Miss Talmadge,'^
exclaimed Esther earnestly. " Frederica was
distressed at the thought."

*was she? Did she think that I would
laugh at her aunt ? I never make fun of people.
The complexity of human nature, when one dives
below the surface of so-called society, is, I think,
extremely interesting. I have no doubt that the
old lady is a character worth studying."

"She is very good; she has sacrificed everything
for her family, and for Frederica. She
denies herself luxuries that she may save money
for her nieces."

m come and see you there, before you go
back to school ; but if you could contrive that
I am not asked to drink the late Colonel Tale
sherry, I should feel grateful. There is
your friend."

Fred erica's tall, graceful figure was conspicuous
in the doorway. She had her note-book and
pencil in her hand, and was looking anxiously
round for Esther. She smiled and blushed as
she saw the two approaching. Bernard placed
Esther on a settee, and he saved her from
questions as to where she had been, by proposing
to show Frederica some portraits of Lady
Hamilton that were in another room.

They were absent some little time. Bernard
found Frederica's society pleasant, and was struck,
upon turning over her note-book, by some rough
sketches that she had executed that morning.
They talked in a desultory way about Art and
books. There was nothing particularly fresh or
original in Frederica's remarks ; there seldom
is in the utterances of a school-girl, however
intelligent, she may be ; but what a man most
admires in a feminine companion is an appreciative

attention. That, Frederica undoubtedly
exhibited.

Esther was sitting in the same place when
they returned, with that far-off look in her
eyes that puzzled and interested Bernard. He
watched her for a moment, but said nothing,
and Frederica, intimating that they ought to be
going home, held out her hand. He bade both
the girls good-bye, saying, as they were turning
away, " 111 come some afternoon. Miss Tale
and bring you that book upon Art that
we were talking about ; I think you would
like it."

The two girls walked down St. James's Street,
and through the Park to the Metropolitan Station
at Queen Anne's Gate. It was a clear, frosty
afternoon, and the sun was setting over the City.
They paused on the bridge to watch the skaters
who had crowded upon the water, but neither
of them spoke. Frederica seemed absent and
thoughtful, though her eyes were bright, and her
soft complexion glowing beneath her little, black
hat and veil ; and Esther was struggling against
a feeling of keen disappointment and depression
that almost found vent in tears. The world
seemed more inharmonious than ever to the poor
girl. All her warm, young feelings seemed
cruelly crushed ; and distrust, uncertainty, and a

two-edged pain that touched both Bernard and
George, had taken their place.

When they reached Magenta Terrace she went
silently upstairs to her own room, avoiding the
jarring of Miss Talmadge's voice below, and
escaping from Frederica who lingered to answer
her aunt's questions about the excursion. She
sat for a long time at her window, looking out
upon the dingy, shabby-genteel street, watching
the night close in, till the lamps were lighted
and the curtains drawn in the opposite houses,
crying softly to herself, and repeating in an
undertone, "Mother, mother, you meant me to
love him."

It had been dark for some time when Frederica
tapped softly at the door, and entering, said in
her placid voice, 'esther, aren't you very cold
here ? There's a nice fire in the parlour, and tea
is nearly ready. Aunt Theodosian sent me to tell
you."

Esther answered in a confused way, and Frederica
perceived by the stifled sound of her voice
that she had been crying. Going to her, she
took her hand and kissed her softly. 'what
is the matter, dear?" she asked, in her sweet,
unemotional tones, that yet seemed to invite
confidence. "You have been so quiet all the
afternoon. Why did you run away at the

Academy ? I saw you start up and fly out, as
though you had seen a ghost ; and when you
came back with Mr. Comyn I was certain that
something had happened'

Esther leaned her head against Frederica's
shoulder and sobbed. *' I — I wish that I could
tell you — everything,'^ she said brokenly. I am
unhappy. I can't help feeling miserable. I
don't understand. Things seem to get more
puzzling the older one grows."

What is puzzling ? " asked Frederica. " Tell
me ; you know that you can trust me."

Frederica," said Esther, almost in a whisper,
you have never had any one — to care for — to
care for you, above every one else in the world ? "

Do you mean a lover ?" said Frederica. Her
voice trembled with a kind of avv^e, which could
not have shaken it, unless there had been a
dim form somewhere in the background of her
imagination to consecrate the name. " The girls
at school talk of such things, but they don't
know any better, or how their talk lowers them ;
but I — how should I ? What do you mean ? Is
it so with you, Esther ? "

"Not like the girls at school," said Esther,
'rit was on the island — a year ago. He went
away from me," she whispered.

'rit is Mr. Brand," said Frederica, with placid

conviction. *' I guessed it ; I knew it from your
manner when you spoke of him — and you saw
him to-day ? "

I saw him in the Picture Gallery. He did
not see me, and he looked so careless, as though
he had never had a heartache since we parted.
I ran after him, and he drove off, and then
Bernard found me. He wanted me to tell him,
and I could not — and I am sorry — "

"Never mind, dear Esther," said Frederica,
soothingly, not taking an exaggerated view of
the position ; '' perhaps it was best to say
nothing. He must see you again, some time or
other, and then he will come back to you. If he
meets you again, he must care for you, even
more than he did upon the island."

Frederica softly stroked Esther's hand. " I am
glad that I have told you," said Esther, tenderly ;
"we won't speak of it again, but I could not
bear that you should not know what was in my
heart. You have been so good to me, Frederica ;
I am so grateful to you."

I have not been good to you," said Frederica.
What have I ever done for you ? "

"You have been good to me, better than you
think. I think that I should have died if someone
had not seemed to care for me. You don't
know what it feels like," continued Esther,

shuddering, " to feel so lonely, as though you had
been forsaken, and there was no one in the world
to care whether you were alive or dead. It was
so with me till I had you. Now everything
is different. You have made the difference.
Frederica, you'll believe how dearly I love you."

I think you are fond of me, you enthusiastic
little creature," said Frederica, with complacent
sweetness ; " but then I am fond of you too."

"It is not only that I am fond of you,"
Esther spoke with deepening earnestness, "but
that I feel as if I never could repay you. It
would be a joy to me if I knew now, that I
could do something in the future to make your
life happy — that I could give you any great
thing for which you cared."

Unconsciously to herself, Esther spoke so
solemnly that a moment after she had uttered
the words she felt as though she had taken
upon herself a vow. The echo of it seemed to
linger in the small, darkened chamber. It
was as though she had bound herself to something
which she could not now foresee. She
was almost frightened at the impression her
own voice had made upon her. Just then
Miss Talmadge called loudly up the stairs.
Frederica, my love, the tea is getting cold, and
such a beautiful, buttered muffin. I know you

like muffins. Has Esther got a headache ? I
am not surprised. There is nothing more
fatiguing than looking at pictures, as I know
from experience, having traversed all the noblest
galleries of Europe. Lady Susan Starkie always
took a pinch of soda in a wine-glass full of water
when she had a headache. She said that it was
a corrective to acidity. If Esther would like to
try the remedy, I'll bring it up to her."

Esther is coming in a moment. Aunt Theodosian,"
cried Erederica, running down-stairs. As
soon as Esther had composed her face a little,
she descended and took her place at the tea-table.
Happily Miss Talmadge was short-sighted, and
talked too much to observe her silence.

True to his promise, Bernard brought the book
which he had offered Erederica. He came to
Magenta Terrace one afternoon, about a week
after the day at the Picture Gallery. Esther had
a strong suspicion that he had watched Miss
Talmadge out of the house, for his knock sounded
ten minutes after the old lady had set forth
upon a shopping expedition to the High Street.
Erederica was painting a fan, and Esther was
reading a dilapidated edition of Ainsworth's
Tower of London,' which she had picked up in
Miss Talmadge's lumber-room.

Bernard looked at her in a penetrative manner.

Several times she met this eye, but he did not
talk much to her, addressing himself principally
to Frederica, commenting upon her work, and
asking questions about her proposed course of
study at the School of Art.

"I shall leave school at midsummer," said
Frederica, *' then I shall begin to study hard at
Anatomy; though I am afraid that even if I
don't fail altogether it will be a long time before
I paint a picture worth anything."

Everything takes a long time," said Bernard,
'' and I suppose that one must always be prepared
for failure — but I don't think that you will fail.
When I next see you, you may be a rising young
portrait painter, exhibiting your pictures to an
admiring public. We shall both be working,"
he added abruptly. " I am going to Germany
next week."

'' To Germany ! " echoed Esther and Frederica.
Shall you be long away ? "

"Eighteen months or two years. I am contemplating
a dive into German metaphysics, and
I want to read Goethe in the original. An accurate
knowledge of the language is so necessary
in almost all branches of literary study."

Shall you like living abroad ? " asked Frederica.


*' I find life in England a great bore. There

is SO much sham about society, and people won't
let one do as one likes. I'm complaining of my
family — a pack of silly women who have nothing
to think of One can defend oneself against
one's enemies, but heaven save one from one's
friends. I am eccentric because I take my
exercise soon after the sun is up, and sit over my
books when other men are lounging about the
Park or Piccadilly, or smoking in their clubs. I
don't race, hunt, read the Field, play cards, or
frequent theatres, therefore I am supposed to
be without resources. I am called an infidel for
not going to church, and because 1 have failed
in an examination for which I made no particular
effort, I am considered a ne'er-do-weel."

Frederica laughed. *' What are you going todo
then ? "

*' I have not decided," answered Bernard with
sublime self-confidence, " whether I shall compose
an opera or write a book."

I wish our piano weren't so bad," said
Frederica, glancing doubtfully at the cottage
Broadsword with its faded front, which Miss
Talmadge had picked up cheap at a broker's, and
which had, tradition said, once stood in the
boudoir of a duchess.

Bernard sat down and ran his fingers over the
keys, producing some responsive sounds from the

old instrument which had a few sweet tones left.
'rit is not so bad ; I daresay that it was fairly-good
in its day." He began playing with great
delicacy and masterliness some soft flickering
airs that seemed to tremble in the dusky room
like the little jets of flame that leaped up in the
grate, and cast timid reflections upon Miss
Talmadge's antique salver, and the face of the
eight-day clock swinging its pendulum over the
sideboard. Then he wandered into more abstruse
harmonies, that revolved round a clearly distinguishable
sentiment, and were no longer
tremulous and evanescent. It grew dark, and
Frederica put away her colour-box, and Esther
laid aside her book. It was not Bernard who
was playing, but a genius of sound, who had
transformed the low, homely parlour, with its
shabby furniture, into a temple of tender inspiration
and softly-thrilling fancies.

They were each wrapped in their pleasant
illusions when Aunt Theodosian's heavy foot came
clattering down the area-steps, and pressing her
nose against the window, she peered undiscerning
into the dim room, and tapped loudly
at the pane. '' Oh, my dears, open the door
quick ; I am nearly dead, and my hands so full
that I could scarcely get out of the omnibus.
As I passed Mr. Hawke's shop, in Gloucester

Road, I saw the loveliest slice of cod for sixpence.
We'll have it broiled for tea, if that idiot of a
child has had the wits to keep the kitchen fire
alight. . And a Sally Linn. I know that
Esther is partial to Sally Lungs. . . . And,
my loves, I've heard that Turks are up again.
Laws ! who is that ? You don't mean that
it's Vir. Comyn — and to think of my coming
down by the area. I declare I don't know why
I did it. How was your cousin. Lady Isherwood,
Mr. Comyn, when you last heard from
her? I really cannot imagine what Frederica
was thinking of to bring you down here when
there is a drawing-room up-stairs to sit in.
You'll stay for dinner, won't you ? — and just a
little glass of sherry in the mean while."

Bernard had risen precipitately from the piano.
** No, indeed, ]bliss Talmadge, I am extremely
obliged, but I have an engagement this evening.
I merely called to say good-bye before going
abroad."

Ah ! " said Miss Talmadge, " you are about to
visit the Continent. I have gone through all
that, Mr. Comyn, and it has left its mark, for
which I am thankful. I have spent many years
of my life abroad, and have been repaid both
in a social and intellectual sense, for the fatigue
and discomfort of travelling. My circle of acquaintance

at the various places of resort in
Italy, France, and Germany, has comprised the
most eminent members of the aristocracy, and
many distinguished men and women of letters.
I knew how to seize upon advantages when they
presented themselves, Mr. Com}Ti ; and then the
sights I have seen — that alone is sufficient to
confer mental superiority. I have gone through
eighty-four palaces and ninety-seven cathedrals,
to say nothing of Art-galleries and museums."

Bernard held Esther's hand for a moment as he
bade her good-bye. " You will have left school
by the time I return," he said ; and she fancied
that there was a note of warning in his voice,
and coloured deeply. " I hope that I may find
you at Barwold, well and happy." He shook
Frederica's hand warmly, took leave of Miss
Talmadge, and departed.

Frederica," said Aunt Theodosian, turning
upon her niece with severe dignity, " the next
time that a gentleman of Mr. Comyn's position
pays me an afternoon call, I must beg that he
is shown into the drawing-room, and not into
a beggarly parlour next the kitchen. Not that
this is not a very nice apartment," said Miss
Talmadge, "and extremely comfortable, but it
is hardly befitting a great-granddaughter of
the Earl of Glencairne. And when I think of

what I have gone through for the credit of my
ancestry ! The furniture of my drawing-room,
which is handsome enough to grace the reception-rooms
of a duke— all saved by scrimping and
screwing, out of the merest pittance, it is hard
that I am to reap no benefit from it."

VOL. II.

CHAPTER y.

THE Sherwood IN WOODFOEDSHIRE,

In the early part of September, exactly two
years after her arrival in England, Esther was
standing upon the platform at St. Pancras Station,
on her way to Barwold Court, where Sir Emilius
and Lady Isherwood had again established themselves.


Esther had left school, and was now going
to the only home open to her, though in what
capacity she was as yet ignorant. From the
tone of Sir Emilius' letters she had been led to
infer that certain duties were expected of her.
The nature of these duties she had yet to learn ;
but, with the remembrance of her grim reception
in Berkeley Square still strong upon her, she had
no pleasant anticipations of her entrance into her
uncle's family.

It had not been found convenient to send
Parkins to escort her, and Esther was travelling
alone into Woodward shire. The two years which

she had spent under Miss Binney's charge had
taught her to be, to a certain extent, independent,
and she was now much better able to take care
of herself, than when she had made her forlorn
journey from Australia to England. She had
taken her ticket, had seen her luggage labelled,
and was walking along the platform waiting for
the train to come in, when a gentleman, followed
by a porter with his gun-case and portmanteau,
was knocked by a passing truck awkwardly
against her, and lifted his hat with a concerned
I beg your pardon. These fellows are so clumsy."
But the apology had been hardly uttered when
it was replaced by " Esther ! By Jove ! it is you.
Are you going down to Bar wold ? "

The speaker was Bernard. Esther flushed
with surprise and pleasure. She had not seen
him since that afternoon at Magenta Terrace,
when he had bidden her and Frederica good-bye.
Esther believed that he had been in Germany all
this time, but intercourse between herself and
the Isherwoods had been scanty. They had
rarely written to her, and she had passed all her
holidays with the Talmadges. Bernard looked
somewhat foreign, as an Englishman does when
he has lived for some time on the Continent, but
he had not altered so much as Esther. She had
grown certainly an inch, had filled out con

2

miserably, and had lost much of the pleading,
diffident expression, that had made her seem
more child-like than she really was. Her eyes,
though they were as large and as sympathetic
as they had ever been, were brighter, and more
full of interest in her surroundings. Her complexion,
paler still than that of most healthy
English girls, had a faint tinge of pink coming
and going upon the smallest provocation, in a
delicate, evanescent flush. She had also a more
composed manner, as was becoming to a young
lady who had spent two years under Miss Bin-ney's
discipline, who had gone through courses
of diluted science, history, and polite literature,
had learned to talk French after a fashion, and
had imbibed a smattering of Italian and German.
Her attainments had not gone far towards satisfying
her mental cravings. She felt at times the
sense of insufficiency, and of incongruity between
her outer and inner lives, as keenly as she had
ever done, but there had come to her a more
definite estimate of her social attitude and position,
and Frederica's unemotional companionship
had been beneficial to her.

Bernard scanned her approvingly, pleased to
see that she had that well-appointed look, which is
peculiar to a certain phase of English young-babyhood.
It gave him satisfaction to observe that

she was plainly dressed, and wore no fringe, and
that her gown was tied sufficiently loosely to
admit of her walking with ease.

Here, porter I " said Bernard, singling out an
empty first-class carriage upon the line. '^ We'll
travel together, Esther, and 111 give up my smoke
for the pleasure of your company." He handed her
in, shoved his gun-case and portmanteau under
the seat, and spread their rugs and umbrellas
about the carriage, in the hope of preserving it
uninvited. The stream of travellers consisted
for the most part of sportsmen, bound for the
Eastern and Midland Counties, and who principally
made for the smoking compartments ; but
just as the guard had closed the doors, a very
small but very pretty young lady, attended by
her maid, looked in, passed on, and returned,
finally taking up her position opposite Miss
Isherwood.

^^AUerton," said the guard, looking at the
tickets. " All right ; change at Winchester."

The occupants of the compartment thus became
aware that they were each bound for the same
destination.

The station-master gave the signal, and the
train moved on.

Communication between Bernard and his companion,
could not, under the circumstances, be of

a private nature ; for though one may have no
objection to discuss one's affairs freely before one's
neighbours, one does not usually care to do so
before one's neighbours' servants.

Bernard asked Esther several questions about
her school life during the last two years, and
she in her turn made shy inquiries as to his
travels and stay in Germany ; but conversation
flagged, and presently he took up the Fall Mall
Gazette while Esther, being unprovided with
literature, looked furtively at her companion
opposite.

She was a very picturesque, piquante girl,
scarcely more than five feet in height, and beautifully
made in proportion, with bright dark eyes,
a clear olive complexion, and great vivacity of
expression. She was dressed in very good taste,
in a brown serge costume touched with yellow,
and a drooping hat and feather, and everything
about her, from the chatelaine she wore, to the
handle of the parasol she carried, suggested wealth
and particularity. She was rather a restless
young lady, addressing abrupt remarks to her
maid, and looking at Esther as though she would
have liked to launch into conversation. Probably
Bernard's presence restrained her, for she
took up a book instead, and when they changed
trains at Woodch ester, she got into another

carriage, and Bernard and Esther had one to
themselves.

'that was a pretty girl," said Bernard. " I
suppose she is a neighbour, as Atherton is her
station as well as ours. I feel as though I ought
to know her, but I can't recall her name."

Then he asked the sportsmanlike question,
"You haven't heard anything about the game
prospects at Bar wold, I suppose, Esther ? "

I don't know anything about the game,"
replied Esther. " They haven't told me. I have
only had one letter from Sir Emilius since they
came back, and that was to tell me that I was to
live with them."

So you are to live with the Isherwoods for
good. That is to be your life; I suppose now
that Adelaide Comyn is married, Hermione wants
another white slave."

Was Adelaide Comyn a white slave ? " asked
Esther.

"That was my definition of her vocation.
Some people may have thought it a very worthy
one. She had good things to eat, and a certain
amount of material comfort. Hermione occasionally
gave her one of her own last season's gowns,
and took her in a sort of ' poor dependant ' way,
into society. That was her reward for a martyrdom
to boredom. I daresay that the murder of all

independent, intellectual existence did not hurt
Adelaide multi, and she was too thick-skinned
to mind being scolded. You, too, may be satisfied
with your lot."

I am wondering what I shall have to do."
I can tell you off, a few of your duties. In
the first place, you must submit to consider
things generally, from the dead level of millinery.
You will have to read Ze Follet, or the Court
News, aloud to Lady Isherwood every day for
two or three hours, while she executes feeble art
patterns in rebels upon coarse towelling. You
must always be within call, ready to write notes,
and to put in a suggestive word as to whether it
is too wet, too hot, too cold, too windy, or too
anything else, for driving in the brougham or
the open carriage ; but you must use great tact,
and listen deferentially to endless discussion, for
Hermione likes her dependants to keep their
places. You must bear with patience a great
deal of irritable comment upon your own conduct,
and upon that of other people. You must be
quick to co-operate with Hermione in any idea
that may have struck her weak brain, as to the
retrimming of her last season's gowns. You
must never be out of earshot at any time in the
day, except when you are sent out to look for
Floss and Wallenstein, who have an unfortunate

knack of losing their silver collars in the spines.
Moss is a terrier, and Wallenstein is Lady Isherwood's
pet dachshund. They both require a great
deal of attention. You must never allow yourself
to feel sick from being shut up in a close carriage,
or from sitting with your back to the horses,
and you must always agree with Sir Emilius
when he talks about Art, and with Hermione
when she talks against it. Happily he is so deaf
that he will not notice what you say."

Esther laughed. " All that sounds wearisome,
but not particularly difficult."

"Perhaps it is not difficult to a woman. It is
debasing, from an intellectual point of view.
Talking of Art, how is Miss Talmadge."

Frederica ! She has been studying for more
than a year at the Art School, and is getting on
very well. I spent my last holidays at Magenta
Terrace. Miss Talmadge keeps a better servant,
and does not work quite so hard now that
Frederica is at home and earns a little money."

Poor girl I I like to see a woman modest
and intelligent as she is, feminine and ladylike
too — going in so independently for a profession —
but I am sorry that she is obliged to work for
her living."

"It is her ambition to make a home by-and-by
for her two sisters. She did a portrait of me in

water-colours this summer. I have it with
me. It is for an old sailor at Mundoolan Island
who was very kind to me when I was quite
young. Long ago, soon after I came to England,
Frederica drew me in chalks, aod I sent him the
picture. He was delighted with it, but six
months ago I got a letter from him, telling me
that it had been destroyed in a great storm at
the Pilot Station, when his hut had been blown
down. I am sending him this one to replace it."

"You have not forgotten your sold home,
Esther."

'' No," replied Esther gravely, thinking at the
moment how impossible it was that some of
those early memories should fade. " I could forget
anything sooner, but Mundoolan Island must
have changed considerably in the last two years."

How ? " asked Bernard. " I thought it was
too desolate a place for civilization to approach
it."

"Mrs. Overstone tells me — I hear from her
sometimes — that coal has been discovered at
Bully Wallah ; that they are talking of a township
upon the island ; and that large works have
been built which will make Mr. Overstone 's
fortune ; and Mr. Lydyiard's colony is established

now."

'' Lydyiard ! " repeated Bernard. " I wonder

if that can be a man I knew well, several years
ago. He was a very ugly fellow, and much
older than I am. I have lost sight of him lately,
but I think I heard that he had been sending or
taking a colony of emigrants out somewhere.
He wrote a good deal about the Strikes' movement,
and rather took the side of the leaders.
You don't mean to say that he has established
his settlers upon Mundoolan Island ? "

I think that the person you describe must be
my Mr. Lydyiard. He stayed at Bully Wallah
for more than a month, and was very kind to meat
the time that my father died. I should like
to see him again."

*' I will look him up if he is in London now.
It is strange how one drifts away from persons,
who at periods of our lives have been strong
agents in the forming of our convictions. I
became acquainted with Lydyiard soon after I
left the Navy. I think that his independence of
ordinary social aims, attracted me."

Do you think that it is a good thing to hold
oneself aloof from others ? "

*' No," said Bernard. ^' But when one's principles
are as yet undeveloped, it is natural and
right to shrink from the responsibility involved
in the influence, which one must more or less
exercise upon one's associates. Lydyiard had

collected round him a set of independent thinkers.
He wrote at that time for many of the leading
journals. I always fancied that there was a story
about his marriage, or something of the sort. He
gave one the idea of being a disappointed man.
Is this Atherton ? Yes ; so it is. I have not
been in Woodfordshire for so long, that 1 have
forgotten the line."

He handed Esther out, and went to see about
her luggage. The young lady who had shared
their carriage to Woodchester got out of the next
compartment, and was met upon the platform by
a footman who took her parcels and rugs, and
placed them in a well-appointed brougham that
was waiting in the station-yard.

"That is somebody for Atherton Hall," said
Bernard, as he took his seat opposite Esther in
the wagonnette that had been sent to meet
them. ^^ I remember the Welbys' livery."

Who are the Welbys ? " asked Esther.

'* Old Welby is the Squire of Atherton and
Master of the Grately hounds. His place is a
mile from the station, and Barwold is three
beyond it."

The name Grately struck Esther as familiar ;
but she supposed that . she had heard it mentioned
by the Isherwoods.

The country about Barwold, as in the midland

generally, was not picturesque, consisting
for the most part of farmed land, and thin belts
of wood. Bernard looked anxiously at the turnip
fields as they passed. "There does not seem
to be any show of partridges, and I am afraid
that the old boy has not done much in the way
of preserving this year. Charles used to look
after that."

How prim it is ! " exclaimed Esther, to whom
the English country was new. Her rural experiences
had not as yet extended beyond walks
in the suburbs of London. 'sand how like a
garden. I fancied that when I got really away
from town, I should see plains and forest, as one
does in Australia."

Bernard laughed. " You can t get away from
civilization in the Midland counties." They
drove on through several villages — each in the
transition phase between the seventeenth and
nineteenth centuries, when modern manufacturing
"Ugliness is placed side by side with the picturesqueness
of old English architecture — till they
wound round by a grey stone farmhouse, and
little incline overarched by thick elms, on the top
of which stood an ancient spired church covered
with ivy. Beyond it, lay a straggling street, in
which were rows of cottages, some modern, and
some of earlier date, with thatched roofs, and

queer archways dividing them, over one of wliicli
was a shield, and an inscription in old English,
"G. I. 1780."

"Your ancestor. Sir Giles," said Bernard.
*there we are at the entrance-gates. The Lodge
deserted — and the place is not nearly so well kept
up as it used to be ; I am afraid that Charles's
racing debts have made a hole in the Isherwood
revenues which his prolonged tour in the East
will hardly repair."

They drove up a winding avenue of alternate
light and copper beeches, and came at the end of
it, to Barwold Court, an irregular house built of
dark grey stone, with deep, mullions, diamond-paned
bay-windows abutting on every side, and
framed in Virginia creeper now turning to a deep
crimson. It had little buttresses and battlements
above the windows, and in the centre of
the roof a quaint clock-tower. The building
was of no particular period of architecture,
having been added to at various times ; but it
had a picturesque look of antiquity, and just now
the contrast of the pale grey stone streaked with
black and the autumnal creepers was particularly
charming. The oldest portion was coeval
with the settlement of the Isherwood family
in Woodfordshire in the thirteenth century.
Though by no means palatial in size, Barwold

was large enough to contain a pleasantly numerous
shooting party. The grounds were more old-fashioned
and suggestive, than showy, and where
deficient in the bedding out element of geraniums
and cancellaria. There was a smooth 
behind, with a sun-dial at the end, and
at each side broad gravelled terraces, on which were
shrubs of magnolia, myrtle, and heliotrope in ornamental
tubs. Cool shady walks turned round odd,
grey stone corners, and wound in and out in
labyrinthine fashion, till it was difficult to realize
how comparatively small an area the house and
grounds covered.

Sir Emilius had not arrived at the very
highest pitch of modern sestheticism, but he
insisted that everything within the house should
be in keeping with its exterior. In the fireplaces
he would have no modern grates, nor
might the harmony of the walls and floors be
spoilt by any but the deepest and most subdued
colouring. Large logs burned upon heaps of
ashes on the wide hearths, and instead of marble
mantel-pieces there were quaint structures, in
black oak, that supported curious mirrors or
pieces of antique China. He would on no pretence
admit a picture or bit of ware of a later
date than the previous century. Critics said that
some of his ancient masters were spurious, and

that specimens of his Chelsea and old Worcester
were scarcely as valuable as he supposed, but he
piqued himself upon being the fortunate possessor
of some rare Henri Deux, and that fact was
sufficient to deify him as a connoisseur in China.

Parkins, as sleek and bland as of old, opened
the entrance-door, and ushered Bernard and
Esther into a large hall, panelled in oak, with
porters of tapestry veiling the doors, and carved
oak cabinets filling the recesses. On one side
was a stained glass window, below which was a
deep, cushioned seat. Two old-fashioned painted
screens made a pleasing irregularity in the room,
and a row of blue China dishes hung over the
mantel-piece. A bright fire was blazing on the
hearth. Before it, in a large arm-chair — fatter,
fairer, and even more voluminous than when
Esther had last seen her — sat Lady Isherwood,
with a tea-table, upon which was a Worcester
service, drawn up beside her.

On one side of the fire-place. Sir Emilius,
shrivelled and lean, sat before a cracked spinet,
from which he was extracting doubtful harmonies,
as he poked his big nose forward and
peered through his spectacles into a book of
MS., extremely yellow and dilapidated, that
stood upon the desk. He hardly looked up when
they entered. " How do you do, Bernard ? " he

said in his feeble way. " How do you do,
Esther ? Glad to see you at Barwold. It is
as I thought," he added excitedly, turning over
a page, and then going back to the fly-leaf.
Pray excuse me, Bernard ; I am quite absorbed,
as you see, in this new treasure. It has only
just arrived. I think I may say with certainty
that this music primer was used by Elizabeth
Tudor. You see the autograph and inscription.
The matter is beyond a doubt. The spinet itself
bears the date of 1550."

Where did you get it ? '* asked Bernard.

Both the book and the spinet had lain for
years in the lumber-room of a farm-house not
far from Woodchester. I remarked them yesterday,
and bought them for a mere song. The
ignorance of the lower classes is something surprising.
They have treasures under their very
noses of the value of which they are quite
ignorant. It is a mournful reflection that, in
spite of our best efforts, it may be centuries
before the glorious influence of Art and culture
reaches the multitude."

My dear sir, if the farmer and the farmer's
wife had appreciated the spinet, they would not
have sold .it to you."

"True!" said Sir Emilius, in his melancholy
voice, " but culture would teach that the sacred

VOL. II. I

relics of bygone Art should be concentrated, as
it were, in temples accessible to all, and the
members of the upper class — the aristocracy of
wealth and refinement — should be high priests
of the religion. It has a sweet tone," and he
played with three fingers a little quavering melody.


'* 1550 ! " said Bernard. *' In those days they
had not brought the construction of musical instruments
to its present pitch of perfection. I
hope you don't mean it to supersede the Broad-wood
in the drawing-room. One ought to take
advantage of modern improvements. Don't you
think so ? "

Sir Emilius uttered a little groan.

"Now some people like modern innovations,"
continued Bernard, provokingly. " There's Dicky
Ohetwode, Charles's friend — you remember his
shooting here with us four years ago. ' Why
don't they put plate-glass in the windows ? ' he
said. ' These little panes make the rooms so
confoundedly dark.

Lady Isherwood nodded an assent. *' Ah !
such a nice young man, and so devoted to lace.
He knew all about that, at all events ; and he
had the most perfect idea of combining colours.
I must say, Bernard, that you are very sensible
sometimes. China is all very well, as I tell

Emilius — and tapestry. They are the fashion ;
and really some of the designs in the old needlework
are very pretty for antimacassars — but a
torn music-book that Queen Elizabeth played out
of — who cares for that ? I thought of going as
Queen Elizabeth to a fancy ball in Rome last
winter; but when I wrote to Leonine about my
dress she positively declined to make anything
so unbecoming, so I went as Flora instead.
Won't you come near the fire and have some
tea?"

Lady Isherwood turned sharply round upon
Esther who was standing in the rear of Bernard.
Why are you smiling ? I don't think that Miss
Binney has taught you good manners. It is
very rude to laugh to oneself in company.
Don't you think that Flora was a becoming
character for me ? "

*' I don't know," said Esther, helplessly.

It was a beautiful costume," continued Lady

Isherwood. " Worth designed it. The corpore

and the skirt were almost entirely covered with

blush roses — I used to be called the blush rose

when I was a girl. I am glad to see that you

have improved in appearance. Now that Adelaide

is married, and you have left school, you are

going to be my companion. I hope that you

don't object to reading aloud ? "

I 2

I like it very much, thank you."

I think that it is a good thing to cultivate
one's mind' said Lady Isherwood, pouring out
two cups of tea, " so I subscribe to Muche's, and
get a box of books every month. Can you do
crewel work ? "

I haven't done any yet, Lady Isherwood."

Crash is much nicer to work upon than that
other stuff that looks like towelling. I did this
tea-cloth. Here is your tea, Bernard. There is
some buttered toast, but I am afraid it is cold.
A young artist in Rome designed the pattern ; he
said it was Etruscan. Emilius, what is Esther to
call me ? "

But Sir Emilius was too much engrossed with
the spinet to heed.

He is getting so deaf," said Lady Isherwood.
I think it is so inconsiderate of people when
they won t hear. He is deafer than ever when
he is on the antiquities. I'm sick of Art. Emi-lies
! " in a louder tone. " Is Esther to call me
aunt ? "

''I suppose so, my dear, if you have no objection."


I don't mind, if she is your brother's daughter,
but I should like to be quite sure that
her mother was a lady. What do they call the
negro women out there ? She might have been

a black creature for all we know. Call me Aunt
Hermione."

Aunt Hermione," said Esther, " my mother
was a lady, and she is dead, and — "

*' Eighty-eight ! " interrupted Lady Isherwood.
'•'You have become very much set up since you
have ]been at school. I told you, Emilius, that it
was a mistake educating the lower orders."

My dear," expostulated Sir Emilius, ^' you
don't grasp the position."

*' What position ? I don't see any."

*' Esther is my niece, and I wish her to be
treated well."

"I am sure I never wanted to treat her badly,"
said Lady Isherwood, snappishly. " She has got
Adelaide's okl room, and the upper housemaid
has orders to wait on her."

Hermione," said Bernard, " there was an
extremely small, and very pretty, dark, young
lady in the train with us to-day. She got out at
Atherton, and drove off in old Welby's carriage.
Was it a Miss Welby ? "

"There is only one Miss Welby, Bernard, and
she is very small. I am glad you thought her
pretty. She will have plenty of money, and would
just do for you. But they say she is going to
marry a cousin, who has come in for that old
Lord What's-his-name's property — the man who

died in the beginning of the year. Dear me I —
it is extraordinary how living away from a place
makes one forget the names of the people. At
least I hear that he has got the Grately estate,
but nothing besides ; they say he has been wild."
Charles and Lina Welby did not get on," pursued
Lady Isherwood, "or she might have done for
him."

"I think that I'll go and have a chat with
Lewis," said Bernard. " I want to hear about
the partridge prospects, Sir Emilius. I saw very
few CO vies as we came along to-day."

'not as many as there should be, Bernard, Fm
afraid. I never shoot, you know. Charles used
to look after the game. 1 have asked Clarke and
Howard to come over two days next week, and
you must give the tenants each a day. We can't
stand more than three guns."

Bernard was walking oflp, but paused at the
door, detained by Esther's wistful glance.

Hermione, hadn't Esther better go up-stairs
and see her room ? I'm obliged to take a proprietary
interest in her, for I brought her down.
Shall I ring for some one to show her the way ? "

Cullen was sent for, and Esther was taken upstairs
to the chamber intended for her future
occupation. It was a pretty little room overlooking
the terrace, with a deep window, and

more modern chintz than were to be seen in
any other part of the house.

"It was Miss Adelaide Comyn's," explained
Cullen, " till the family went abroad. She was
Mr. Bernard's cousin, and spent a good deal of
her time here. She is married now, but she
suited my lady very well. You'll find her forgetting,
Miss," added Cullen in a friendly manner,
pointing significantly down-stairs ; " but the best
way to get on, is not to mind when she is contrary.
Miss Adelaide never paid attention to
what she said."

By-and-by the housemaid came in and unpacked
Esther's boxes. The girl dressed herself
in a soft cashmere grown which Frederica had
chosen. She looked very like a picture by Sir
Joshua, in her square-cut bodice, with her deep,
dark eyes, and sensitive mouth. Bernard, who
was seated at the piano when she entered the
drawing-room, looked at her admiringly.

Like the rest of the house, the drawing-room
at Barwold was subdued and harmonious. The
fireplace was wide too, and the chimney-glass
was framed in dark oak. Flanking it, were two
arose blue vases standing: out against a background
of deep red. The walls were hung with
crimson flock paper panelled in dead gold, but
were so covered with quaintly-set miniatures.

brackets, china plates, and Venetian mirrors, that
there was very little of their surface to be seen.
On ODe side of the fireplace a Dresden clock with
a swinging pendulum hung over a curious Italian
cabinet ; on the other, a tier of inlaid shelves held
a set of antique cups and saucers. The room was
oddly shaped, by reason of two deep bay-windows,
in the embrasures of which were low seats. The
curtains and coverings of the chairs and couches
Averse of a mediaeval-patterned Cretonne. Upon
a velvet-covered table edged with yellow point-lace
was a tall vase filled with autumn berries
and grasses, and a great bowl of dried rose-leaves
and lavender. A dachshund and a terrier lay
in crimson-lined baskets upon each side of the
fireplace.

Presently Lady Isherwood rustled in, and then
Sir Emilius entered in his abstracted way, and
buried himself in the depths of an arm-chair,
begging Bernard to continue his pot-pourra of German
airs; while every now and then, he would
rise and alter the position of a vase or piece of
China upon a table or bracket. He had been
re-arranging the furniture, and had not yet got it
to his liking, when Parkins announced dinner.
He offered his arm to his niece, and they went
into the dining-room, which was hung with
tapestry representing the meeting of Ulysses and

Nautical, while over the sideboard and doorways
were quaint brass shields bearing lighted
candles that shed a dusky illumination in the
corners.

• Esther had brought down-stairs the portrait of
herself drawn by Frederica for Joe Bride. Sir
Emilius saw it upon the table when they returned
to the drawing-room, and, inquiring who
had executed it, began to criticise the painting.
"The portrait is good," he said, adjusting his
spectacles ; *' yes, it is decidedly good, and the
attitude picturesque, but the background is weak
and wanting in finish, and there is a lack of force
and reality, which suggests that the painter had
not a clear conception of the scene she wished to
represent."

Esther was depicted standing in ' the attitude
in which Frederica had long ago proposed to
paint her — with her back to the rocks at the
base of the lighthouse, and the sea creeping up
towards her — but Sir Emilius' criticism was just ;
the portrait was striking, but the picture as a
work of Art was a failure.

"Your friend has talent," said Sir Emilius,
after a longer scrutiny ; there is merit, certainly
merit — but advise her to confine herself to portraiture.
The work is wanting in atmosphere,
the drawing is faulty, and the conception weak ;

still I should say that there was promise in the
picture. Where is the artist studying ? "

Esther gave some particulars of Frederica's
circumstances and aspirations, and finally produced
a photograph of her friend. Sir Emilius
was interested, and full of approbation.

Such industry and desire for self-improvement
should be encouraged," he said warmly ;
and the talent that undoubtedly exists should
be educated. It would be my wish to instil a
deeper sympathy with the higher forms of Art,
and to cultivate the critical and appreciative
faculties."

*' Why don't you ask Miss Talmadge here, Sir
Emilius?" asked Bernard, suddenly. "She is
a most lady-like, intelligent girl, and would be
grateful for criticism. She is fond of music too,
and plays extremely well."

*^ Ah ! " said Sir Emilius. " I wonder if she
would appreciate the spinet. But your suggestion
is a good one, Bernard. I have long wished
to have the family portraits copied on a small
scale, to illustrate a little History of the Sherwood
I am preparing, from the first settlement
of the family in Woodfordshire to the present
century. The work is not an ambitious one.
Its drawings would require a facility in reproduction,
and a perception of the characteristic points

in each physiognomy. The project has been fora
long time in my mind, but I have hesitated to
employ an experienced artist, and no promising
beginner has as yet come before me."

"Are you talking of having more pictures
painted ? " exclaimed Lady Isherwood, waking up
from a nap. " I wish you would remember,
Emilius, that I have only one pair of carriage-horses
now to do all my visiting with, and that
we have given up forcing. I am sure that grapes
are of far more importance than the hideous
black landscapes you are so fond of. We used
to have such beautiful grapes and pines," she
added, plaintively, " and now I don't know what
I am to do for my winter dinner-parties''

Oh, sir," said Esther, turning her large, grateful
eyes "upon her uncle, '' do you really mean
that you will give Frederica an order ? "

I see no reason, my dear, why you should
not invite her here, and we can then decide upon
the work''

Emilius ! " exclaimed Lady Isherwood, starting
up in wrath. " If you think that I shall
allow your niece to invite her friends here, you
are very much mistaken."

"My dear, it is not a question of Esther inviting
her friends ; the young lady is an artist
whom I am thinking of employing."

'' You will find Miss Talmadge a most amiable
and useful young person, Hermione," said
Bernard ; '' she has quite a genius for painting
fans, and, I am sure, would design you table-covers
and antimacassars by the dozen."

Lady Isherwood received his remark in all
seriousness.

'' Well," she said, " that alters the case. I am
very fond of pretty fans, and I especially want one
to match my last dinner dress. Cardinal satin
touched with pink, and bouquets of pink bigot
for the hair and corsage. Really, Bernard,
you can be quite sympathetic sometimes. A fan
painted in bigonias would complete the costume."

The suggestion was not suffered to die in the
birth. Upon the following day Esther commenced
her duties as secretary by writing, in
Lady Isherwood's name, a note which caused a
considerable flutter in Aunt Theodosian's bosom.
She was convinced that at last the higher circles
were awakening to a sense of her existence, and
that the invitation to Frederica had been sent
solely as a tribute to herself. She made a solemn
expedition to her most valuable store of finery,
accumulated during the visiting life, and brought
forth an antique, mauve satin and necklace of
garnets which she presented impressively to her
niece.

*' I understand, my love, the motive of Lady
Isherwood's invitation," said Miss Talmadge ;
'rand doubtless Esther has intimated to her aunt
my love of retirement; but I must say, that it
would have shown a more intimate acquaintance
with the rules of etiquette, had Lady Isherwood
addressed herself in the first instance to me. It
would have indicated a sense of what is due to
a great-granddaughter of the Earls of Glencairne
had I been given the option of acceptance or
refusal of the compliment manifestly intended
for me."

CHAPTER YL

UPON THE BRIDGE WITH BERNARD.

Frederica was prevented by her engagements
at the Art School from accepting the Isher woods'
invitation for the following month of October,
and as the family were going to town for a fortnight,
early in November, it was decided that
Miss Talmadge's visit should be postponed till
after their return to the country.

Bernard Comyn spent three weeks altogether
at Barwold, remaining there for ten days after
his first arrival, then going to Suffolk to shoot
over the estate of a friend, and returning again
later to Woodfordshire. But during the latter
part of his stay, he was not so enthusiastic about
the sport as he had been at first. The shooting
at Barwold was poor. Sir Emilius never handled
a gun, and Bernard found it dull work going out
alone with a keeper. It was arranged that he
should come down later in November for the
destruction of what pheasants there were ; and
just now, it seemed a pleasant occupation to

lounge over a book in the hall, or to stroll about
the grounds with Esther, than to walk through
endless turnip fields with the chance of but poor
sport.

Esther found Bernard's resume of her duties
fairly accurate. The mornings were usually
spent by Sir Emilius in his library over the
Chronicle of the Isher woods, and by the ladies ina
boudoir in which Lady Isherwood dictated her
notes, or wrote them with the aid of a Dictionary,
discussed her toilettes, and the day's prospect
of visitors, petted Wallenstein and Floss, and
stitched languidly at her crewel work, while
Esther read aloud the most vapid romances,
impossible for the librarians to palm off upon
any other subscriber than Lady Isherwood,
whose intellectual tether they had measured with
tolerable exactitude. *' I don't know how it is :
they never send me the books I order when
people tell me of good ones," said Lady Isherwood;
"but I suppose they know what I like,
and I always impress upon them that I want the
very best." Victorian literature, judging by Lady
Isherwood's estimate of it, might indeed be considered
at a low ebb. She had a devout faith in
the efficacy of fiction as a means of mental
improvement, but invariably forgot one day
with what manner of food her mind had been

stored upon that previous. It had been Adelaide
Comyn's habit, when a book was a little more
exciting than usual, to read on to herself, and
remove the mark a little nearer the end, or in
like manner to skip when it was dull ; but as
long as the mark was placed between the pages,
Lady Isherwood never discovered the fraud, and
was under the impression that she fully earned
the reputation of being a great reader.

Bernard's presence at Barwold had this effect
upon Lady Isherwood, that she was more amenable
to persuasion from him than from any one
else; and when he asked, as he sometimes did,
that Esther might walk with him, she seldom
refused her permission, though she looked cross
and grumbled afterwards.

Bernard's manner towards Esther was fraternal,
but it is difficult to say whether his sentiments
at that time were so also. How she
interested him he would have found it hard to
define ; that she did so was indisputable. There
was in her an absence of the transparent hypocrisies
and the petty interests, which he had come,
perhaps unjustly, to associate with his idea of
young women. Though she did not speak much,
listening rather when he or others talked, with a
gentle inquiring attention, she gave him the impression
that there were in her nature unsounded

depths and latent capabilities, and men of
Bernard's type always prefer those women who,
after a negative manner, furnish them with some
food for reflection.

They were walking one afternoon, in a narrow
path which led out of the avenue, and which was
bounded upon one side by a line of beech trees,
on the other by a running stream, called by
courtesy the river, though it was in reality
scarcely more than a brook. It was spanned by
an old stone bridge that had been patched up
by Sir Emilius as a picturesque bit, and beyond
it, was a wood almost flame-coloured with the
autumnal leaves. Esther and Bernard had
paused against the low parapet of the bridge,
and were looking down at the water.

^' I wonder how I should feel," Bernard was
saying, '' if I owned a place like this."

Esther laughed. " I cannot fancy you in the
least, an English landed proprietor."

"And I cannot imagine you an English
c/idfelauie."

I am never likely to be that," replied Esther,
colouring slightly.

Nor I a landowner ; but the question is more
definitely settled for me than for you. A woman
can never with any certainty predict her own
future."

VOL. II. K

''Do you think that we are so unreliable ? "

Partly ; and you are so much more dependent
upon external circumstances than we are. Now
I daresay that when you were a child upon the
island, or even when you first came to England,
you could hardly have believed that you would
ever lead this sort of life, with relations whom
you did not know."

Why can you not imagine me as an English
county lady ? " asked Esther, waiving his remark,
which touched upon a painful spot.

*' Some people are so entirely abstract, that it
seems impossible that their natures could become
pressed into any given mould. I think that you
are abstract, but I hardly understand you. You
strike me sometimes as being cold ; at others I
am surprised at your sensitiveness."

I do not think that I am cold," said Esther,
in a low voice.

You don't take my meaning quite. Perhaps
I mean that you are more intellectually than
physically emotive. But I have seen you once
deeply moved by the sight of some one you knew
or cared for. Do you remember that day at
Burlington House ? "

"Yes!" said Esther.

May I ask whether you have since met that
the person whom you saw then ? "

No," answered Esther, in a low tone ; " I
have not."

It must have been a disappointment to you,"
continued Bernard, with irritated curiosity.

Esther moved a few paces down the bridge.
The repugnance to speak of George to Bernard
seemed stronger than ever.

^' I beg your pardon," said Bernard piqued ;
*' I see that you dislike the subject. I am sorry
I vexed you by mentioning it."

He picked up some stones that lay upon the
coping of the parapet, and flung them one by
one into the water. Esther returned to him.

I am not vexed ; it is you who are annoyed."

Don't be annoyed with me," she said, in the
child-like manner which had won him over
before. " I hardly know why I dislike the
subject. It cannot matter to you. I am foolish
perhaps to mind now what pained me long ago ;
but I don't forget easily. It does not seem right
to forget. Mr. Lydyiard used to say, that what
we have felt or done in the past must always
bind our lives."

"It is difficult to believe that you can have
had any past of that kind," said Bernard, looking
at her with interest and surprise. This exaggerated
view of what he imagined to have been a
foolish love affair, when she was too unformed

K 2

for it to have impressed lier very deeply, was
incomprehensible to him.

You think the same," said Esther. " You
said the other day that we ought to live to
ourselves till we were quite sure of our own
principles, lest we should influence others —
wrongly perhaps."

*' I think that it is other people's actions
in the past, that influence our lives more than
what we do ourselves," said Bernard ; " and the
convictions that seize upon us somehow, and
hold us so firmly, that we should be traitors if
we defied them."

Esther glanced up at Bernard inquiringly and
sympathetically. He met the unspoken question
in her eyes, and answered it impulsively.
Something happened to me eight years ago,
just at the time when I was most enthusiastic.
I had begun to look upon myself as an appreciable
unit in the scale of creation, and had
extreme convictions upon the subject of marriage
and the responsible attitude one assumes towards
humanity in general, by one's choice of a mate.
I will tell you about it if you like."

I thank you," said Esther, simply.

"I cannot enlarge exhaustively upon my
theories," continued Bernard, still looking down
at the water, and every now and then casting a

stone into the shallow stream. "I suppose it
would be an odd subject to talk about to a
young woman. I came to the conclusion that
it was a good thing for a man of my age to
marry, provided that he got the right kind of
wife. There are such different ways of setting
about it. Some men fall in love with a pretty
face ; others marry because they think it the
correct thing to do ; others drift into it. Then
there is the motive of improving one's fortune
or position, and the wish to be adored, or to
adore, and so on ; but, having made up my mind
to marry, I determined to combine reason and
inclination ; only to choose a woman I could
love, and to avoid all who were sentimental,
irrational, sickly, or merely common-place. Why
are you siding ? You think me very conceited.
I had better not go on."

I was only thinking that it sounded rather
like the Grand Bashaw taking everything for
granted. How could you tell that the woman
you liked would like you ? "

One does not think of that when one is composing
one's ideal. Besides, there is a fatality in
those things. Love begets love ; and, ten chances
to one, if the woman is cold the man will find
he has mistaken his ideal. At Montreal I met a
sweet, feminine, intellectual girl who interested

me immensely. She was the daughter of a
Canadian merchant. We were a good deal
thrown together, and I fell in love with her,
and determined, as soon as I was sure of her
feelings, that I would ask her to many me.
Everything seemed smooth and prosperous. We
sleight together, played duets together, studied
German together, and spent hours each day in
each other's company. There was a mutual understanding
between us. I had felt my ground,
and she knew what was in my mind, but we
were not actually engaged. The very day upon
which I had intended to speak definitely, a crash
came. Her father was declared a fraudulent
bankrupt. Horrible thugs came out about him.
He disappeared, and was found drowned. It
was supposed that he committed suicide."

Bernard paused.

And you '? " asked Esther, eagerly. " Did
you go to her ? Did you speak ? "

I went to her," said Bernard, slowly. " I
did everything for her that I could. To be with
her under the circumstances, was deeply painful,
but I could not add my desertion to her other
troubles. When she was settled in a new home
she was adopted by an aunt in England — I
said good-bye to her."

' Why ? ' ' asked Esther. ' ' She was not to blame."

You think that I was wrong and unmanly ; I
could hardly have expected that you would have
any other opinion. It is the fashion with novelists
and sentimentalists to hold up to reproach
the hero, who abstains from marrying the virtuous
heroine, because she has inherited disgrace from
her parents. I hold, and have always held, a
different view of the case. A man has no right
to run the risk of transmitting to his children a
taint either physical or moral. It is surely more
noble to renounce personal gratification, than by
weakly pleasing oneself, to incur the responsibility
of entailing suffering and vice upon future
generations."

Bernard spoke with curt decision. Like a
sudden wave, there swept across Esther's mind
the thought of her own doubtful antecedents.
Was it possible that Bernard could have intended
his words to carry any personal interpretation ?
Ever since her arrival in England, Esther had
had a vague knowledge of the fact that her
father's life had been under a cloud. The few
hints which had been dropped in her hearing,
and her uncle's injunction to reticence upon her
past history, had confirmed the impression. She
knew that her father had been a drunkard and
had committed suicide ; but what was it that
had driven him away from England in the first

instance ? Had her mother known his secret ?
Was it a crime which had forced him to change
his name, and which, now that he was dead,
made the mention of him disagreeable to his
brother ?

Bernard's next words cut her like a knife.

^' I see, Esther, that you take the sentimental
view of the position, and have no sympathy with
the one who gives np his own joy for the sake of
a general good. The heredity of moral disease
has been as clearly proved as that of physical,
and the man who marries the daughter of a thief
or a murderer, is practically as guilty as he who
takes for a wife the daughter of a lunatic or a
diplomatic."

Esther started, and moved on a few paces.
I see — I see," she said hurriedly. ^' Both must
suffer for the sake of right. If there be error,
it is best to err on the side of self-sacrifice.
Indeed, I would try to choose the highest lot,
even if it were the hardest."

At that moment a carriage, dimly discernible
through the trees, drove up the avenue.

'' I must go," exclaimed Esther. " Aunt Her-mine
was expecting visitors, and there they
are."

Bernard joined her, and they walked up to the
house. The carriage was driving from the door

as they approached, and in the drawing-room
Lady Isherwood was entertaining two ladies.

The elder one, whom she introduced as Mrs.
Welby, seemed only to need a rosy cherub upon
her lap in order to pose perfectly as one of
Raphael's placid, dignified Madonnas. Her face
had a serene impressiveness, conveyed in the
large violet eyes, the arched brows and forehead,
and the smoothly banded, fair hair, that was
very striking. Her drapery was rich and flowing.
She wore a large cross upon her breast,
and talked in mellifluous tones that reminded
one of the subdued swell of an organ through
vaulted cathedral aisles.

*' Dear Lady Isherwood," she was saying when
Esther and Bernard entered, "we are so delighted
to hear that you have a niece with you ; young
companionship is so pleasant'

Then she shook hands with Esther and bowed
to Bernard, whom Lady Isherwood introduced ;
and Miss Welby, who looked smaller than ever,
and had rather a gushing manner, advanced and
greeted Esther with effusion.

Of course I guessed who you were, in the
train, the other day, and was longing to speak
to you, but the traditionary reserve of the
English miss prevented me. Don't you detest
the English miss ? I do. I hate everything

that is formal, and conventional, and the correct
thing — except luncheon. Mother, darling, don't
look at me so reprovingly ; you know very well
that the day is my luncheon, and my luncheon
is the day to me — except dinner ; I like dinner
better, I think, if somebody nice takes me in
but there is a solid satisfaction in one's
luncheon that is very comforting. You don't
know Woodfordshire ; do you. Miss Isherwood ? "

*' No," answered Esther, amused at this ethereal
young lady's appreciation of her meals. Miss
Welby looked as though she had lunched off the
wing of a lark. " I have only just left school."

'' Oh ! Do you know, I fancied that we were
about the same age, but now I see that I must be
years older, for I have been out for ever so long.
Oh ! it is too far back to remember. Mr. Comyn,
I think that I danced with you once at the
Woodchester Hunt Ball, but you have forgotten
me, and now I feel so awfully shy of you, I should
not know in the least what to begin talking to
you about. This is a very stupid county," she
went on, addressing Esther. *' At least I find it
horridly boring. When hunting begins next
month, it will be duller than ever, for then the
men are out all day, and go to sleep in the
evenings, and we ladies have no horses to do
anything with."

*^ You don't hunt ? " asked Bernard.

She made a grimace. *'No indeed; my father
thinks that noble sport should be a monopoly of
the male sex. It seems to me, Mr. Comyn, that
you men have the best of it. Everything that is
lively and inspiriting falls to your share. You
can shoot, fish, hunt, smoke cigars, drink brandy
and water, and swear ; whereas we poor creatures,
if we are bored and want amusement, are condemned
to clerical garden parties, weak tea and
muffins, and parochial excitement. If you ever
ride through Atherton in the winter you will seeme
stumping about on patterns, with a village
basket on my arm and a hymn-book in my hand.
I know that I am always a frump more or less,
but on these occasions my frumpishness surpasses
itself."

The remark was manifestly intended to call
forth a disclaimer.

When I hear a young lady speak of herself
as a frump," exclaimed Bernard, ** I am certain
that she means something particularly piquant,
so I shall ride through Atherton every day. Miss
Welby, till I have satisfied myself with a sight o
you in your parochial character. So you carry
tea and sugar to the old women ? "

"Yes; and snuff and tobacco. The parish
widows may have a pipe on the sly, though we

poor misses are denied that luxury. I read them
hymns in the broadest Woodfordshire. Perhaps
you think I can't talk it, Mr. Comyn. Well, this
is what they say — * You he's a fine scholar. Miss
Lina, you be. Yoi beats our Rector fine, and
there's not many would match his discourse if
they tried.' Then at Christmas time there are
the tea-drinking and the widows' feasts, and
the Church decorations. Are you High or Low
Church, Miss Isherwood ? "

*' I don't think I ever thought about it'*
replied Esther.

*' You'll have to follow your Rector's lead ; but
he is of the ^ two and two make four ' order. I
think it would be such a comforting variation if
they'd only say, * three and one make four.'
Sometimes we are high, as high as it is possible
to be, consistently with Anglicanism. Darling
mother is next door to a Roman Catholic. She
would like to set up a Confessional at Atherton,
and to put Dr. Lightner into vestments. She
always wears black in Lent, and last Good
Friday she went to morning service — matins she
calls it — in the deepest funeral garb. ' Darling
mother,' I said, * why this panoply of woe ?
Have we lost our nearest and dearest ? ' but the
sweet angel silenced me with one of her pained,
ecclesiastical looks, and presently old Lady

Elizabeth Lightner waddled up the aisle in a
blue gown ; it was very shocking. Do you go in
for church decorations, Miss Isherwood 1 "

I have had no experience," said Esther. *' I
never went to church till I came to England
three years ago."

You see, Miss Welby," said Bernard, " that
you have a perfectly unenlightened mind to
improve."

Miss Welby looked puzzled. " Then you have
lived abroad. I was at school in France, but
there we had even more church than one has in
England, aud the sisters were so sweet. Oh,
Miss Isherwood, how delightfully fresh you
must feel ! What a comforting person I shall
find you. Nothing that I say will ever shock
you."

Tea was brought in, and Bernard creamed and
sugared Miss Welby 's cup, while Mrs. Welby
turned her velvety eyes upon Esther. "Lina
is looking forward to seeing a great deal of you,
Miss Isherwood, if dear Lady Isherwood can do
without you sometimes. It has been a dub year
for her, for you know, dear Lady Isherwood, o
our trouble at Grately last winter. The dear old
lord's death was a sad trial. A death in the
family is always distressing; but we must remember
the ever-yawning grave, ready to swallow

up those we love, and repress our murmurs."
Mrs. Welby uttered this exhaustive reflection in
the most placid of voices, and settled her dress
as she spoke.

"Mourning is always trying," said Lady
Isherwood, "especially to dark people. The
property went to a nephew, did it not ? "

*the Grately property was left him, but I
grieve to say nothing else. I fear that dear
George will have a difficulty. It is always such
a pity when land is divided from personalty.
You don't know our nephew, I think, dear Lady
Isherwood."

I never saw him that I remember''

He has lived abroad a good deal. His
regiment has always been quartered out of
England. Latterly there was a misunderstanding,
but, to be sure, you were not at Barwold.
The dear old lord was very particular in his
notions. In these days of laxity, I am sure that
one cannot be too strict, but I think there was
misrepresentation — George is such a dear, impulsive
fellow. We hope to have him with us
this winter. Dear Lady Isherwood, did you
bring any pretty things with you from Paris ?
I have a head - dress about which I long for
your opinion."

I feel like a fly in a honey-pot," whispered

Miss Welby to Bernard, " when mother and
Lady Isherwood get into the subject of dress."
Mammie, dearest," she added aloud, " you
must remember that we dine eight miles off tonight,
and that father fusses if we keep the
carriage waiting."

Yes, love," said Mrs. Welby rising. " I want
you all to come and dine, dear Lady Isherwood.
My husband is longing for a chat with Sir
Emilius ; and the sj^inet — I have heard of it — so
very curious and interesting. I wish he were
here to show it to us."

After a little more talking it was arranged
that the Isherwoods were to defer dining at
Atherton till after their return from London.

Now remember," said Lina, shaking Esther's
hand warmly, "you are going to be a great
comfort to me ; and when you come back again
we must do all kinds of things together."

The Welbys drove off. Presently Sir Emilius
came in from the literary where he had been
arranging some pictures, and asked for a cup of
tea.

I want some some one to help me," he said,
looking round for Bernard, but Bernard had left
the room. " Esther, perhaps you have a straight
eye. If you have no objection 1 should be glad
of your assistance."

Esther followed her uncle into the library, and
patiently held up one by one a collection of rare,
old prints that he had lately purchased.

But it was later than he had thought, and the
light was bad.

*' Thank you, my dear," said Sir Emilius ; " I
thought that I might have hung a few, but it
is getting too dark. I can see by the way you
handle the prints that you have a feeling for
Art. Now tell me which of them you prefer ? "

Esther pointed to a graceful, female figure,
which had struck her because she fancied that it
resembled her dead mother.

Quite right," said Sir Emilius, nodding.
That is, I think, the best one in the collection.
I am glad to observe that you are gaining in
appreciation of what is beautiful and artistic. I
have noticed it upon several occasions, and have
felt gratified. It shows that you are one of us ;
bat," he added, abstractedly, and with a tone of
great sadness in his voice, " it is not surprising.
The taste is inherited. Your father had a truelove
for Art. Had he not thrown away all
chances of cultivating his talent he might have
been a remarkable painter."

Esther's heart throbbed. The opportunity for
which she was inwardly longing had come
without her seeking. Sir Emilius had himself

introduced the subject of her father. She was
panting for information, and a crowd of questions
came rushing to her lips.

Why did he throw away his chances ? " she
cried, tremulously. " Why do you always speak
of him as though he had done something wrong ?
Why did he go to Australia, and conceal his
name ? ''

It was necessary that he should go away,"
said Sir Emilius.

Necessary," repeated Esther. " It could not
have been necessary for him to leave England,
his home, unless he had done something of which
he and you were ashamed."

My dear," said Sir Emilius, taking his niece's
hands, and looking kindly, but sadly, at her
questioning face, " do not ask anything about
your father. He was never one of us. He was
estranged from his home for years before he
became practically dead to us. I am thankful
that it was so ; it is easier to bury the memory
of his disgrace. There were but two of us, and
I am the representative of the name he dishonoured.
My own wife knows only that I had a
brother with whom I was at enmity. It is best
that you should forget everything else."

How can I forget ^ " asked Esther, her lips
quivering. " I cannot alter the fact that he was

VOL. II. L

my father. If I have inherited disgrace it is
right that I should know it."

You feel it," said Sir Emilius. " It is the
Isherwood pride which could never brook shame.
In an old family which has always been honoured,
there is nothing so terrible. It should be concealed
from the very members themselves. Your
father was right to change his name ; he was
unworthy to bear it."

But you allow me to bear it," said Esther ;
I am his daughter."

My dear, when Robert wrote to me, entreating
me to befriend his only child, I felt that I
could not refuse his prayer. Age makes us
softer, and I have had troubles with my own
boy. It seemed unjust that the innocent should
suffer for the guilty. And you were a girl — I
had a sister, who died young, called Esther, and
that inclined me towards you. And I am fond
of you for your own sake, my dear ; I do not
think that I shall ever regret having brought you
into my family. You had better go back to the
drawing-room, it is too dark to do anything more
with these pictures ; but thank you for your help.
Don't speak to me again about your father ; the
subject is painful to me. Stay ; since you like it,
my dear, you may take away that Bartolozzi
print ; I will give it you."

Esther silently took the picture and departed.

CHAPTER VII.

IN MR. LYDYIAED's CHAMBERS.

Esther has never seen a Lord Mayor's show,"
exclaimed Bernard. "We must certainly take
up our positions somewhere in Fleet Street tomorrow,
and see the sight. Do yoa hear,
Hermione ? "

Bernard was dining in Berkeley Square ; the
house had been partially reopened for the convenience
of the Isher woods during their short
stay in London, and it was the day before the
civic pageant, of which Esther had just confessed
her ignorance.

'•' I don't see, Bernard," said Lady Isherwood,
crossly, " why you should propose such a thing
on Esther's account. Young women are not
usually consulted before their elders, and I have
other plans for tomorrow. No one goes to
see the Lord Mayor's show except servants and
children."

L 2

'^ Esther is a child. Nonsense, Hermione ;
you are as keen as anyone for a lark when you
arrange it yourself. There is to be no end of
tinsel and flummery tomorrow. I am sure that
you would enjoy the allegorical procession, and
the car drawn by milk-white steeds ; to say nothing
of the Lord Mayor and the Lady Mayoress
in their robes of state."

I went to a civic banquet once," said Lady
Isherwood, thoughtfully. " It was very amusing.
The people did all kinds of curious things, and
the aldermen's wives were dressed so oddly ; but
if we go tomorrow we must have a window to
sit at."

I think that I can arrange it comfortably,"
said Bernard. " I have a friend whose chambers
are at the corner of one of those streets leading
into the Embankment from the Strand. Esther,
you remember our talking of Mr. Lydyiard ; I
mean him. He is in London, and I saw him
the other day."

''Mr. Lydyiard," exclaimed Esther; "oh, I
should like to see him again. Does he know
that I am in London ? "

"No," said Bernard. "We met hurriedly the
other day, and I did not mention you. Perhaps
you would rather the meeting should be a surprise.
I won't tell him when I arrange about

luncheon tomorrow, that you are to be one of
the party."

"No," said Esther; ''I wonder if he will remember
me."

What does Esther know of Mr. Lydyiard ? "
asked Sir Emilius. " I am acquainted with him ;
a man not given to friendship with young girls,
I should fancy, Bernard."

"He took out a colony of settlers to Mung
Island," explained Esther. " He was there
a month inspecting the land, and he was very
kind to me."

Sir Emilius avoided allusions to the island, and
the conversation was turned.

There was no difficulty in arranging the little
luncheon party, and upon the following morning
Bernard called for the two ladies, and they all
drove together to Lydyiard's rooms. Their host
met them on the landing. Esther was introduced
as Miss Isherwood, but her old friend bowed
without recognizing her. This was not surprising,
for the girl had her veil down, and her
dress and deportment were very different to
those of the Esther of Mundoolan Island.

The tiny hall was decorated with curios in the
shape of spears and arrowheads from the South
Seas which Lydyiard had collected during his
wanderings, and which immediately attracted

Lady Isher wood's attention. She was like a
child in her admiration of anything new, and
was particularly charmed with some festoons of
native beads that hung from the ceiling. *' How
pretty I " she exclaimed. "Now, if Emilius would
only get some of these things for Barwold instead
of those stupid China plates and carvings
how much more interesting it would be ! What
delightful ornaments for a fancy dress ! La belle
sauvage I Are there ever fair savages, Mr.
Lydyiard ? "

^' I have seen some in England, madam," said
Lydyiard, leading the way into the front sitting-room
which looked on two sides towards the
street. Here luncheon was laid upon a round
table, and seats placed in the windows for the
convenience of the sightseers.

*' Is it not a very noisy situation ? " asked Lady
Isherwood.

My study is at the back," replied Lydyiard,
*' and is quiet enough, and I like the roar of the
City better than the fashionable dulness of the
West End ; but these rooms are merely a temporary
abode. Lady Isherwood, and when the
business which keeps me in London is ended, I
am going to a milder climate."

Esther was standing apart from the others,
and, as he spoke, raised her veil and turned her

eyes upon her old friend. He looked ill, she
thought, certainly much older, and not less ugly
than when she had last seen him; in truth, there
was some suppressed irritation in his face. He
was a little annoyed at having his quarters
invaded by two fashionable ladies, though he
had not liked refusing Bernard in whom he had
once been interested, and had had, moreover, the
inducement of giving pleasure to an unfledged
school-girl, who had never seen the Lord Mayor s
show ; but he had not bargained for one as fullgrown
as Lady Isher wood's graceful companion.
After his first recognizing glance he had barely
noticed Esther, who was trembling with suppressed
excitement. Seeing her now standing
alone at one of the windows, he left Bernard
and Lady Isherwood together, and joining her,
made a commonplace remark about the day.
She turned, and looked him straight in the face.

Esther ! " he exclaimed.

Bernard did not tell you. I wanted it to bea
surprise. You did not know me. Oh, Mr.
Lydyiard, I am so glad to see you again."

Lydyiard took her hand and pressed it between
his own, reorardinof her with moistened
affectionate eyes. "Yes, you are very much
altered ; it is not surprising that I did not know
you, but now I see that it is quite the same face.

Of course I knew that the Isherwoods had placed
you at school, and I had heard from Mrs. Over-stone
that you were well and happy, but I had
not connected you in my mind with Bernard's
cousin. My child, I am glad to see you, and I
need not ask if you are well cared for. Your
face and appearance tell me that'*

Mr. Lydyiard's manner was warmer than it
had ever been at the island. There, though he
had been always kindly, and latterly even affectionate,
there had been a gloom, and a touch of
resistance in his interest, as though it were at
war with some other feeling behind it. Nevertheless,
Esther had always felt drawn to him by a
strong instinctive sympathy. She did not know
why she should have any particular affection for
this ugly old man, any more than she might
have felt towards Mrs. Overstone or any other
who had been kind to her. She did not know
of his proposal to adopt her, and she vaguely
fancied that his attraction for her must be a
result of his association in her mind T\dth the
recollection of George Brand. Her heart was
throbbing with the longing to hear him mention
her lover ; she felt that an allusion to, and perhaps
information about, George would naturally come
from him. Lady Isherwood called sharply to
her niece to fetch her a wrap, and Lydyiard took

Esther's hand and led her forward. " Lady
Isherwood, I find that your niece and I are old
friends ; we have met in Australia. You must
not be surprised at my monopolizing her somewhat
; I have a great deal to tell her of her old
home."

Bernard handed his cousin the shawl for which
she had asked, and Lady Isherwood threw it
petulantly over her ample shoulders. She was
annoyed because Bernard had been looking at
Esther instead of listening to her remarks, and
now, to see her niece absorbing their host's attention
was peculiarly distasteful to her. She was
like a child in her inability to conceal her vexation,
and answered crossly. *' Sir Emilius does
not like Esther to talk of Australia. She was a
perfect barbarian when she came to England, and
we have gone to a great expense in having her
educated, and in making her presentable. She
is one of Emilius' fads, and I don't think she is
properly grateful. Her father was a disgrace to
the I family, though I never could make out
exactly what he did, and we know nothing at all
about her mother, who was most likely a negro
woman."

Esther felt the almost convulsive pressure of
Lydyiard's fingers, as her hand still lay in his.
He drew the girl closer to his side, as though she

had a claim upon him which he wished to make
evident, and replied coldly. " No, Lady Isherwood,
I must correct you ; Esther's mother had as
pure blood in her veins as the most high-born of
your friends. She was a lady by descent and
manners, and her daughter resembles her. Pardon
me, I think that you are hardly at a right
angle for seeing the procession as it comes down
the Strand; let me turn your chair a little."

He moved the position of the seat, and drew
Esther to the other window, and before Lady
Isherwood had recovered her surprise, the thickening
crowd and distant shouting announced the
approach of the spectacle, and diverted her attention
to the scene in the street.

It was on Esther's lips to ask Mr. Lydyiard
whether he had ever known her mother, but
something in his face, as she glanced wistfully
towards it, checked the inquiry. She tightened
her grasp of his hand in a childlike way, and he,
looking down at her, said in a soft voice, " I am
glad indeed to have you with me, Esther; tell
me, is your uncle kind to you ? "

"Yes," she replied, in a low tone, which the
noise in the streets rendered inaudible to the
occupants of the other window. " He is an old
man, and loves pictures and China better than
anything in the world, I think ; but he is very

good to me, and wish-es me to be treated as
though I had always been one of the family.
You must not judge hardly of Aunt Hermione.
She is like a child ; no one minds her much ; it
is her way to ^be cross, and to say out what she
thinks."

Lydyiard smiled. "It is an uncomfortable
way ' for you, I'm afraid."

'' I'm getting accustomed to it. Uncle Emilius
does not like me to talk of my father, or to speak
to strangers of my early life. Of course you
know all about it, but that was what Lady
Isherwood meant. Mr. Lydyiard, I would give
the world to know what it was that obliged my
father to go to Australia. It was something
dishonourable. My uncle told me so much, but
he would tell me no more."

Sir Emilius was right," said Lydyiard. *' You
are better in ignorance. Now look, Esther, the
procession is coming."

The pageant moved slowly by, and presently
Lydyiard and Bernard changed places, and the
latter began pointing out to Esther the principal
features of the show. " I have been giving
Hermione a lecture'' he said, when it had passed.
"I hope Lydyiard will smooth her down a little ;
he is a good fellow. How fond he seems of you !
Did he know your mother ? "

** I cannot tell. His manner made me fancy
that he must have known her. I want to ask
him. I have so much to say to him if I could
but get the opportunity."

I'll try and manage it for you, but I must
throw a bait for Hermione.'^

Luncheon was served. Lydyiard was diplomatically
attentive to Lady Isherwood, and
made himself so agreeable that she asked him
to pay them a visit at Bar wold during the
following month.

I don't shoot, Lady Isherwood, nor do I hunt,
but I should like to take advantage of your
invitation for a day or two, and renew an old
acquaintance with Woodfordshire. I am very
busy just now purchasing and sending out
machinery and farming implements for my
colonists upon Mundoolan Island."

''Oh!" exclaimed Esther. 'mrs. Overstone
told me that your emigrants were settled on
Bishop Meddlicott's selection, and that coal had
been discovered on Bully Wallah."

"Yes; they are settled, and very happily, I
think. Mundoolan Island is progressing so
rapidly that there is a talk of building a township,
which is to be the seaport of Northern
Australia. Your friend, Mr. Overstone, has
given up the study of salt and of irrigation for

that of coal-mining. He has a great many views
upon the subject, chaotic at present ; but he
hopes to sit again in Parliament, and prove
them to the satisfaction of the Legislative Assembly,
and when he has made his fortune he is
going to bring ' the missus ' to England."

"Is it long since you came back from the
island ? " asked Esther.

Only a few months. I was in Australia for
some time. It may be my last visit, and I was
anxious to do all that I could for my settlers. I
have some sketches of the island which perhaps
you would like to see by-and-by, Esther."

Bernard, who was playing one of Chopin's
mazurkas in a sotto voce manner, turned upon the
music-stool. " Hermione, it has just struck me
that there is an afternoon performance at the
Gaiety ' to-day. I have had a ticket sent me
for it. Would you like to come and risk the
chance of getting another stall ? "

I dare say that the theatre won't be very
crowded. Yes, Bernard, we will go. Why did
you not mention it sooner ? It is so long since I
have been to a play. Is it Little Don Caesar de
Bazar ? They say Kate Vaughan's dancing is
wonderful, and she always dresses so exquisitely."

m take you," said Bernard heroically. '' If
we can't get another stall we must come back.

I dare say that we shall manage it somehow.
Esther had better stay and chat with her old
friend. Lydyiard, you will see Miss Isherwood
home ? "

Lady Isherwood was too eager for her amusement,
to put forth any plea of impropriety that
she might otherwise have urged against leaving
her niece alone with Lydyiard. So venerable
and so ugly a person must surely be harmless.
She only stipulated that Esther should be m
Berkeley Square before five o'clock, and then set
off with Bernard for the theatre.

Now, Esther," said Lydyiard, " we will have
a quiet talk. Tell me, child, what you have been
doing these two years."

''I have been to school at Miss Binney's, at
Lower Norwood."

And your holidays, I suppose, you spent with
the Isherwoods at Bar wold ? "

No ; they had shut up the house, and lived
abroad. I spent my holidays with some friends
with a school friend who was very kind to meat
Kensington."

'you were full of longing for knowledge.
Have you found learning as pleasant as you
thought it would be ? "

I don't know, sir," answered Esther, a little
sadly. *' I have learned a good many things, I

suppose, but nothing is quite what I fancied it
would be. I was very miserable at school at
first, till I made a friend, and that seemed what
I needed. Since then everything has been different.
I have read a good many books, and
have seen sights which were grand and beautiful
beyond what I had ever imagined. There were
the pictures and churches, and great, busy London.
I have missed the sea and the rocks, and the endless
bush, aud have sometimes felt cramped here ;
but it has been in reality a far wider life."

And at present, as far as you can see, your
future will be passed with the Isherwoods ? "

It seems so, sir. I don't know of anything
different that could happen now."

Many things might happen. It is probable
that you will marry at some time, but do not
think too soon of that. Esther, you had thoughts
of that kind when you left the island. Have they
quite gone from your mind ? "

Esther's lips quivered, and she replied with
downcast eyes : *' I have never forgotten ; but it
has not rested with me. If he had cared or
remembered, he would have come to me."

'' You have never seen George Brand since you
have been in England ? "

'' Once — for a moment in a picture-gallery —
but he did not know me. I don't think he saw

me. Do you think that he has really forgotten
me, or is it that he does not know where I am ?
If he had wished to find me, he might have
written to the Overstones. Mr. Lydyiard, have
you seen him ? "

^* No ; I have heard of him. I have heard that
his uncle is dead, and that he has inherited
considerable property, though not as much as he
had been led to expect."

I have written to him," said Esther. " I
wrote to him at his bankers in Sydney, as he had
told me. I thought that he would have met mein
England, but he never came. I waited and
waited, and I grew ashamed. I am sometimes
ashamed when I think of him. Mr. Lydyiard, I
cannot explain — I hardly know myself what I
feel about him."

He has a facile nature," said Lydyiard, ** one
that receives impressions readily and lets them
fade as easily. Esther, there is nothing for you
to regret in losing George. He would not have
made you happy. It is far better that you
should forget him, as he has forgotten you."

I cannot do that — I cannot forget what —
what happened. He can never be like any other
man to me."

Would you care to see the sketches of the
island?" said Lydyiard, fearing that he had

pained her, and hurrying away from a subject
which there could be no use in continuing:.
Come with me into my study, and I will show
them to you."

He took her into a back room evidently consecrated
to his private use. The table was littered
with books and papers, and upon the 023en flap
of the escritoire lay several loose sheets of manuscript.
He opened a drawer and took out a
bundle of Australian sketches and photographs
which he laid before Esther.

She lingered over them with delight, making
him point out on a rough chart of the island,
which he had drawn up during his first visit, the
exact whereabouts of his settlement, and asking
questions about the emigrants, and the changes
which had taken place, and about her old friends
the Overstones, and Joe Bride and his wife.

Nancy died of dropsy a year ago," said
Lydyiard, and Joe is likely to remain head pilot.
He lives in your old cottage, which has been
rebuilt since the cyclone."

** And my mother's Grave ? " asked Esther,
does Joe take care of it ? He promised me
that it should never be neglected."

Joe tends it ; it is as it used to be. I have a
little drawing of the place. Would you like to
keep it ? "

VOL. II. M

He found in another portfolio, and handed to
her, a sketch of the graveyard where her father
and mother lay buried. What vivid memories it
recalled ! Esther's tears fell as she looked at the
drawing.

You have an affectionate heart," said Mr.
Lydyiard. " Your mother must have loved you
dearly'

You read her letters," said Esther; 'those
which you gave me when you left the island.
They must have shown you how good she was ;
how dearly she loved me. Mr. Lydyiard," she
exclaimed eagerly, '' do you know anything
about my mother ? "

She laid the drawing upon the table near her,
and turned her appealing eyes upon him in a
manner which made subterfuge impossible. But
either from her eager excitement, or because her
eyes where blinded with tears, she knocked over a
small, closed frame that stood upon the table.
It fell to the ground with a crash, and one of the
hinges breaking, the locked case flew open and
disclosed a miniature portrait upon ivory.

Oh ! I am so sorry," began Esther, and stooped
to pick it up, but her exclamation of regret
ended in one of surprise, as she saw that it washer
own mother's face that lay before her. She
lifted the case and gazed at it intently, while

Lydyiard watched her, saying nothing. "Oh,
Mr. Lydyiard, I see — I know — I only fancied
from your words to-day that you knew my
mother, now I am sure of it. Oh, why have you
never told me ? That is why I have always felt
differently for you to what I have felt for anyone
else; I understand now. You did know her —
when she was a girl —-perhaps before she married
my father. Perhaps you were " — Esther was going
to say — "fond of her too," and then she remembered
that Lydyiard must have been a young
man then, and his affection for her mother could
hardly have been the paternal feeling he had for
her. She coloured and looked confused. " Oh,
tell me about my mother I" she added breathlessly.
" How beautiful she is here ! This must
have been done years ago when she was as young
as I am now."

Yes," said Lydyiard, speaking with a forced
calmness. " That was done when she was about
your age."

I am right ; you knew her well. You must
have known her intimately to possess this. Was
she — any relation of yours, Mr. Lydyiard ? "

She was not related to me."

"But she must have been a friend — a great
friend. She looks sad even here. Was she always
sad, Mr. Lydyiard ? She would never tell me

M 2

anything about her youth. I do not even know
whether she had a father or mother living. I
have sometimes fancied that she was an orphan
like me. 1 have so longed to know something
about her."

Esther spoke with excited pleading that it was
impossible for Lydyiard to resist.

Was she always sad ? " repeated the girl.

He looked at her intently, and answered, but
with a certain slowness, as though to speak was
painful to him.

*' Your mother was always sad. Hers was a
nature which, in youth passionate, exacting,
craved more than it is in the power of humanity
to bestow. She was impatient, emotional, imaginative.
Such dispositions must always taste
more or less of the bitterness of disappointment."

"Tell me about her," Esther continued, her
sympathies and love still further aroused by the
suggestion of a note that seemed to chime with
her own nature; "you must know more, or you
would not know so much. You ;must have seen
what sort of life she led ; you cannot refuse to
tell me all that you know now she is dead. I
loved her so. Even now, in the twilight, when I
am alone, I sometimes fancy that she is near me
I think of her so often."

I cannot tell you much," answered Lydyiard.

** She was an orphan of French extraction and
good family, brought up by an aunt in England
who died when your mother was seventeen.
She was left friendless and almost penniless. It
was at that time that I began to know her
intimately."

"And you were good to her' said Esther
naively. " I know that you must have been so,
for it is your disposition to be tender to those in
distress."

I was not good to her," said Lydyiard, rising
and speaking with involuntary agitation. " I was
selfish, and thought only of my own pleasure ; I
fettered her by the weight of obligation; I bound
her to me when she did not wish to be bound —
when I had no right to shackle her life — I — "

"I think I can guess," said Esther, touching his
hand in quick girlish sympathy, the whole story
seemed so patent to her young understanding.
'you wished her to be your wife perhaps. Ah! it
was so. You cared for her, and she did not know,
did not appreciate — one does not always appreciate
where one ought — and perhaps afterwards
she broke her word and married my father. Is
not that the story which it pains you to speak
about?"

Yes," said Lydyiard, relieved by her girl-like
solution of his somewhat incoherent self-accusations.

"You are right; it pains me to speak
of it. She was bound to me; and she loved your
father better."

"I can understand now," murmured Esther
almost to herself, 'why she wished me to live
true to the past." She looked down at her
mother's picture, and seemed lost in thought.
The image of her father brutalized by brandy,
violent, or morose, rose unpleasantly before her
imagination. That her mother could have preferred
such an one before Lydyiard, who, withall
his plainness of feature, seemed to Esther
perfectly love-worthy, was inexplicable. 'rit is
strange," she said.

"What is strange? Were you thinking that had
you been in your mother's place you would have
chosen differently ? You don't know. Think of
your father as you saw him lying dead, and you
will not wonder that he should have been preferred
before one as repulsive to women as I
must have been."

"You are not repulsive," exclaimed Esther,
kissing his hand with a gush of affection towards
him. " How can you think so ? You attract
me ; you have always attracted me in a way for
which I could not account."

"I am not your lover," said Lydyiard. "Women
admire physical beauty in men ; would you have

loved George if he had been ill-featured and

o

misshapen ? He bent down and kissed her
forehead, and there was a tremble in his voice.
'' You are a winning girl, Esther. I daresay that
you thought me strange and sometimes morose
on the island, but I was fond of you from the
first, though there were associations that made
the sight of you painful to me. I am a man of
strong impressions, and I have never been able
to shuffle slipshod over my responsibilities, my
convictions, or disappointments. Old age and ill
health are creeping upon me, and there does nofc
seem much to look forward to — very little present
contentment, and the calmness of negation beyond.
It would be sweet to me to feel that I
had your young, trusting affection. I once wished
to adopt you ; but it was best that you should goto
your uncle. If you were in any difficulty or
trouble, Esther, you would understand why it
would be more natural for me to help you than
for any one else. We will talk no more of your
mother, child ; come and look at these drawings,
and then I will take you home."

In the mean time Bernard and Lady Isherwood
had gone to the ' Gaiety,' but the theatre was
unusually crowded, and there had been a difficulty
in procuring a second stall. They went to
a Picture Gallery, a poor salve to Lady Isherwood's

disappointment. She was particularly
irritable and inclined to grumble at everything,
and finally drove back to her own house while
Bernard walked on to his chambers.

It happened that upon this particular afternoon
Miss Talmadge became inspired with an
immediate sense of her obligations to the higher
social spheres, and as a graceful acknowledgment
of Lady Isherwood's invitation to her niece,
determined to call with Frederica in Berkeley
Square.

Lady Isherwood, flushed and fuming over her
disappointment and Esther's neglect, was seated
in the drawing-room when Miss Talmadge was
announced, and the quaint figure in its imitation
sealskin and glace-silk, its curls and nodding
cook's-plumes, appeared in the doorway. Lady
Isherwood was too naive to conceal her impressions
under the mask of good-breeding. She
did not mean to be rude, but when she saw
anything that surprised her she could no more
help showing her astonishment, than she could
avoid letting people see she Vv^as ruffled when she
felt cross. She stared at Miss Talmadge, and
made a scarcely perceptible nod, taking no notice
of the outstretched hand in its baggy glove.

*' It is possible," began Miss Talmadge, in
her most polished manner, '' that my name maybe

unfamiliar to Lady Sherwood, whom I once
had the pleasure of meeting as Miss Comyn, but
I am certain that I have only to mention that of
Lady Susan Starkie — "

"I never heard of her' replied Lady Isherwood,
blankly.

*' Lady Susan Starkie," declared Miss Tale
with emphasis, " was the most finished
gentlewoman whom it has ever been my good
fortune to encounter ; and Providence," she continued,
with slightly raised tones, *has been
pleased to elect that my lot should have been
cast, during twenty years of my life, in those
higher circles which it is not the privilege of all
to enter. Lady Susan Starkie was, I believe,
upon the female side, a connection of the Comitis,
but she was more directly related to the Earls
of Glencairne, from whom the Talmadges claim
descent."

I remember your name," said Lady Isherwood.
'* Sir Emilius asked me to invite a young
person to Barwold to paint. I am sure we shall
be delighted if she comes, though I hope her terms
are not very high, for we have Ijeen reducing our
establishment ; and, as I tell Sir Emilius, there
are other things — and grapes are of more consequence
in the winter than Art ; perhaps it is this
young lady," nodding at Frederica. " She looks

very nice, and my cousin Bernard says that he is
sure I shall like her, but I don't know anything
about the Glencairnes, or Lady Susan What's-herne
either. Sir Emilius is not at home, but if
you will sit down — "

Miss Talmadge, red with indignation, seated
herself bolt upright upon the edge of the sofa,
and clasped and unclasped the fastening of her
bag with a nervous excitement that was not
common to her. '* I was not aware of the motive
of Lady Isherwood's invitation," she said, her
voice trembling with dignity. ^' Had I suspected
it I should have hesitated before intruding here.
It has never been the custom of the Talmadges to
demean themselves by entering into questions of
terms. Not but what the profession of painting
is honourable to the highest, and Frederica's
grandfather was in a position to be a patron of
Art. My father was the most finished gentleman
whom it was possible to see in any of the
courts of Europe. As for les petits soi?is in which
the gentlemen of this age are strangely deficient,
he would as soon have permitted a lady to walk
down-stairs unassisted, as to pick up her own
handkerchief; one does not see such manners
now."

Lady Isherwood placidly put her feet upon a
footstool, and eyed Miss Talmadge with a childlike

curiosity that seemed, to the old lady, the
height of impertinence. Then there was a long
pause, at the end of which Lady Isherwood
remarked in her baldest manner, that " there was
going to be a fog."

Miss Talmadge replied in her most stately
tone, that she believed the weather prophets predicted
a fall of snow, but that the atmospheric
chancres in England were difficult to calculate :
and Frederica ventured to inquire if Esther were
at home.

She stayed behind at Mr. Lydyiard's," said
Lady Isherwood, crossly. '' We went there to
see the Lord Mayor's show, and then Bernard,
my cousin, took me to the ' Gaiety,' where we
could not get stalls. I think it is very inconsiderate
of the people at the Theatre not to keep
some places in reserve. Esther is very thoughtless.
Young women should consult the pleasure
of their elders, but she thinks only of her own.
I should have gone to Elise's to choose a bonnet
if she had been here. Do you like Elise ? But,"
with a glance at the structure which crowned Miss
Talmadge's curls, " I don't suppose you go to her."

In my visiting days," said Miss Talmadge,
with dignity, " Elise was not in existence ; and I
was always considered the best-dressed woman in
whatever society I graced with my presence."

Oh ! " said Lady Isherwood, with irritating
phlegm, and a look of vacuous surprise. " Elise
is very expensive, but it is nonsense to say that
she hasn't good taste. I shouldn't have thought
that you went out much now."

No," replied Miss Talmadge. " My immediate
circle of acquaintance has been of such a
description as to render me independent of
general society."

"Oh ! " said Lady Isherwood again, and
turned to Frederica. " Are you fond of painting?


I ought to be," answered Frederica, " for it
is my profession."

*'I like professionals," said Lady Isherwood.
Some, you know, one can't receive, but artists
and those people — we met a great many abroad —
have always such good taste. I daresay it would
be very nice to design one's own patterns, but, to
be sure, one can always have it done at a School
for Art Needlework."

Mr. and Mrs. Stanhope Turner ! " announced
Parkins, and two of Lady Isherwood's dear
friends entered, and, after a chilly glance at Miss
Talmadge, began talking about things and people
non-existent for Aunt Theodosian. She sat for
several minutes upright upon the sofa. Her
back grew still stiffer, and her plumes nodded

with a kind of indignant protest. At last she
rose and made a sweeping curtsey. " Frederica,"
she said, " we had better retire."

I am afraid that Sir Smiling has not come
in yet," said Lady Isherwood. She was a little
overpowered by Miss Talmadge's dignity and
wrath, though her slow brain did not see where
she had offended. She held out her hand, but
Miss Talmadge's back Alas turned. "You are
coming to Bar wold," she said to Frederica, " and
if you are professional I am sure that I shall like
you."

The manners of society have changed since
my visiting days'' was Miss Talmadge's withering
comment as she swept down the stairs.
Esther was standing in the hall ; Lydyiard had
just escorted her home, and had driven off after
seeing her enter. The girl rushed forward to
greet her friends.

*' Oh, you have been to see me, and I was out.
But you will come up again to the drawing-room
? "

No, my love," replied Miss Talmadge, with
the calmness of suppressed rage. " Lady Isherwood's
drawing-room is no place for me. I
know my position. I have not lived for twenty
years among the highest aristocracy to be ignorant
of that now — the highest aristocracy ! " she

repeated with such emphasis that Frederica
trembled.

Oh, hush I " she cried.

*' No, Frederica, I will not hush ; I am not
afraid of being heard. It is not for a granddaughter
of the Earls of Glencairne " (Miss Tale
always spoke of the Glencairnes in the
plural) to be insulted by a low-bred commoner."

Who has insulted you ? " said Esther. " Is
it Aunt Hermione 1 If it is — no one minds her."

My dear, I am sorry for the low estimation
in which your relatives hold you — to insult your
friends — but I know what good breeding is. Do
not trouble yourself, my love — I rejoice in a mind
which is above being disturbed by such trifles.
Come, Frederica, we will go."

She swept away, leaving Esther looking bewildered
ly after her retreating figure, and as they
crossed the Square, Frederica could do no more
than throw back an appealing glance at her
friend.

Miss Talmadge's anger had not subsided upon
the following day. It showed itself in an increased
dignity of deportment, and in such withering
harangues as — "Well, Frederica, I hope
that you have had enough of Esther's grand
relations. There is no need to sit stitching at
that merino gown any longer ; your old blue

serge will do very well for running backwards
and forwards to the Museum. As for silk
velvet facings, there is no need to cut up my
best visite, though I hope you don't think that I
grudge it you, my love. I wore it for the first
time at Homburg, at the Princess Frankenstein's
winter receptions. That was something like
society. But for home wear a^d going to church
on Sundays I have got a bit of Cluny lace lying
by, that will smarten up the neck and sleeves.
To be sure it is not real, but who is to know that
unless you tell them ? In my visiting days,"
continued Miss Talmadge discursive, "it was
thought a disgrace to wear a bit of sham lace.
It was a thing to which, in my set, I never
condescended. Half a guinea a yard, and real
Valenciennes, that was my style — but things
are altered now, as I had occasion to remark
yesterday."

A double knock sounded through the house,
and a carriage came to a stop before Number 13,
Magenta Terrace. Instinct seemed to tell Frederica
who were their visitors, or perhaps she had
caught a glimpse of a gentleman's profile through
the half drawn blind. Her cheeks crimsoned,
though she was angry with herself for blushing.
"Why should her heart flutter at the sight of
Bernard ? She had often thought of him since

that afternoon when he had brought her the book
upon Art, and had sat with them in the twilight in
the shabby, little parlour, in which Aunt Theodosian
was now occupied with some homely employment.
But he had glorified it for ever in her imagination.
The very echo of his music seemed in the dusk
to linger in the corners. She had read his book
over and over again, holding it as a thing sacred.
Outfit she to return it to him ? '*

Up-stairs, Frederica," said Miss Talmadge,
with laconic energy. She had taken a peep
through the blind, and was arranging her curls
before the cracked mantel-glass. " To the 
; be seated, but whip the covers off the
chairs, my love, if you have time."

The carriage which Bernard had diplomatically
borrowed, created quite a sensation in Magenta
Terrace, and the sight of the numerous heads
poked out of the opposite windows did much, in
spite of Miss Talmadge' s professed indifference to
her neighbours, to mollify her wrath. Bernard
must be given credit for great tact upon the
occasion. He had dined in Berkeley Square the
evening before, and had heard both from Esther
and Lady Isherwood of Miss Talmadge's visit.
When he laid Hermione's card upon the table,
and concocted a pretty fiction about a severe
headache, which confined her to the house. Miss

Talmadge looked incredulous but softened.
Lady Isherwood, Bernard continued, had commissioned
him to apologize for her shocking
memory. She had not remembered either Lady
Susan Starkie or the Glencairnes, the day before.
Of course, now she recollected that the former
had been an intimate acquaintance, and Miss
Talmadge a personage well known in the higher
circles. She sent a thousand regrets that they
were leaving London so shortly that she could
not invite Miss Talmadge to dinner. Aunt
Theodosian smiled quite graciously at last, and
accepted the apology.

** It is not every one who has a memory like
mine, Mr. Comyn.''

*' You must make allowances for my cousin,"
said Bernard. 'the truth is that she is slightly
odd — in the head, yoti know. Oh, nothing to
speak of ; but her brain power has not developed
as it ought. There are such cases."

One ought indeed to be grateful to an all-wise
Providence for intellectual superiority," said
Miss Talmadge with sublime conviction, " when
one reflects that the growth of one's mental
faculties is hardly under one's own control — but
there is a great deal in hereditary influence, Mr.
Comyn."
^^ " Bernard turned to Frederica, who was looking

VOL. II. N

down in a confused manner unusual to one generally
so serene. " You are coming to Barwold ? Sir
Emilius is so anxious to make your acquaintance,
not only for the mere personal pleasure — I know
you take too much pride in your Art to mind my
saying so — but because he has some copying of
family portraits which he thought of placing in
your hands, but hardly liked proposing, in the
first instance, till he knew whether you would
care to undertake it. We came here to-day because
wee wished to make sure of you. I am
going there next month, and am looking forward
to meeting you''

*' I should like to go," said Frederica shyly.
She hardly knew how to answer Bernard's interested
address, which thrilled through her, and
made her feel pleasantly conscious and embarrassed.
'* I should like to be with Esther, and todo
what Sir Emilius wishes, if he thinks my work
good enough."

Sir Emilius imagines himself a critic. I suppose
he knows something about the matter. He
saw your drawing of Esther, and thought it full of
promise for the future. You see that you have
done a great deal since I saw you last, though you
were a little distrustful of your powers ; you weill
go on improving."

I am afraid that I shall never get beyond a

certain point. I have no real talent. I — I have
a book of yours — I ought to have returned it
long ago — but I did not know where to send it"

** Oh, I have been in Germany — and I meant
you to keep it ; pray do so, if it is any pleasure
or use to you. I have been working too, in my
way."

"Have you written your opera ? "

*not a line. But I have brought back a
quantity of new music — satisfying, suggestive
things — which seem to enlarge one's musical
horizon to an indefinite extent — some duets too,
which I should like to try with you when you
are at Bar wold. I have been attending lectures,
and going in for what you would think, I am
afraid, dryasdust study, but it has taken hold of
me. I have an object now to work for ; but I
won't enter into details, for, in the first place,
they are beyond the feminine range, and in the
second, you might think me pedantic and over-ambitious."


I don't think one can be too ambitious."

Unless one overreaches oneself, and then the
world laughs at one's foolish aspirations. I am
sensitive to ridicule, I fancy, though I try to
cultivate indifference. Well, at any rate we are
comrades in ambition."

Frederica smiled, and glowed with a soft sweet

N 2

satisfaction. Bernard's conversation seemed to
lift her into a different sphere. The shabby-genteel
drawing-room, with its odour of turpentine
and pepper, its curtains that had come from
the Marquis of Olney's, its second-hand mirrors
and wax-flowers ; the domestic shifts, the visiting
life, and Lady Susan Starkie — all vanished
in his presence from her immediate circle of
interests. All that was prosaic and sordid in
her work and her life, seemed, through his unconscious
agency, to melt into a misty neutrality.
But when he had departed the influence went
too, and the magician's wand lost almost all its
potency. It was as though she had been suddenly
brought back to her normal condition,
when Aunt Theodosian, while carefully pinning
the covers again on her chairs, remarked : " Mr.
Comyn reminds me of my father — your grandfather
yonder, my love — but that portrait does
not do him justice. There is the same high-bred,
easy way that is a sure sign of birth, but not the
polish, or the presence, my dear. To that Mr.
Comyn can never attain. There never was such
a finished gentleman as your grandfather."

It had often puzzled Frederica's childish understanding,
at what stage of social or mental
development a lady or gentleman might be considered
" finished."

CHAPTER Viii.

MUSIC IN THE Drawing-room AT Harold.

There was quite a large party assembled at
Barwold during the latter end . of November.
Bernard had come down, and was shooting in
company with the neighbours, or the stray manor
two from London who had been glad to accept
an invitation to share in moderate sport. Mr.
Lydyiard paid a short visit, and departed, pressed
by Sir Emilius to propose himself as a guest later
on, and fairly well satisfied with what he saw
of Esther's establishment among her relatives.
There was no doubt that Sir Emilius, in his
negative way, was fond of her, and that she herself
was happy ; and, as for Lady Isherwood, she
was one of those irritating but minor sores of
existence which are not much taken into account.
The neighbours seemed to regard Esther favourably,
and there was evidently no disposition to
rake up stories of her father's antecedents or her
parentage. This was, in truth, what Lydyiard

had secretly dreaded. But he had little to fear.
Twenty years makes a large hole in the existing
representatives of county families ; and Robert
Isherwood had in his youth been so little at
home, that there were very few who remembered
him, or had any but the vaguest notion of his
fate. It was supposed that he had gone out to
Australia as many a younger son has done, and
Sir Emilius' adoption of his only child left it to
be presumed, that the floating stories of disgrace
in connection with him where without adequate
foundation.

Frederica Talmadge was at Barwold, winning
golden opinions from Sir Emilius. He always
found in her an appreciative listener and admirer
of his paintings and bric-a-brac, and had had no
hesitation in confiding to her the illustration of
his Family Chronicle. He rigged up a temporary
studio for her use, and she worked hard for four
hours each day, steadily refusing to be diverted
from her labour by invitations to walk with the
shooters, or to drive with Lady Isherwood, who
had taken a great fancy to the young girl.

But though Frederica's mornings were occupied,
as soon as the light waned she was her
own mistress, and the days are short in November
and December. It was usual for the shooters,
or those who had found amusement out of doors.

to return early. Occasionally a neighbouring
Squire, or the Master of the Fox Hounds himself,
would drop in on the way home from the run,
the red coat making a bright spot in the pretty,
genre picture. The drawing-room, with its
antique fireplace and blazing logs, the harmonious
contrast of the quaint China, the crimson
walls and old Worcester tea-set, and the more
or less picturesque appearance of its occupants,
was an attractive spot. Bernard and Frederica
took to playing duets in the long winter evenings.
Lady Isherwood remarked that it was
quite a comfort to see Bernard so sociable, he
usually hung over the fire in the smoking-room
with his book. She thought Germany had improved
his manners, etc. She herself plied her
crewel-needles, and Esther would sit dreamily
in a corner opposite the piano with her book —
just lifting her eyes every now and then to catch
Bernard's fixed upon her face, as, with his head
thrown back, he strummed some spirited German
march, or helped Frederica to interpret a crabbed
sonata.

Those were very happy days for the three
young people, though it is doubtful whether
any one of them would have been able, or
willing, to passion a definite reason for feeling
happy. Frederica, whose sweetest dreams, apart

from that misty romance that hung round her
associations with Bernard, had been of artistic
proficiency and moderate, middle-class comfort,
now found herself lapped, as it were, in Art and
luxury, and tasting to the full the pleasures of
congenial companionship and surroundings, and
dainty living. After her days of labour at the
South Kensington School of Art, her meagre fare,
and her evenings spent in needlework, and in
the scheming of thrift, and patient listening to
Miss Talmadge's reminiscences of the higher
spheres, or complaints against the maid-of- all-work
: — this delicate dining — the atmosphere of
ease that pervaded the establishment, the taking
things for granted, and the absence of all the
daily rubs that made life at Magenta Terrace
unlovely — above all, the artistic and musical
intercourse with her host and with Bernard — all
this was very sweet to Frederica. She had a
physical delight in beauty and comfort, and an
appreciation of nicety of living, of good attendance
and order, that was highly woman-like.
She was almost ashamed of the satisfaction it
gave her to behold herself in the cheval-glass
becomingly dressed for dinner, and of the pleasure
she found in Lady Isherwood's jewels and
rustling silks and rich velvets. Though Bernard
credited her, and not unfairly, with loftier aspirations

than the generality of womankind, Frederica
was not a whit higher than the most
frivolous of her sisters in her genuine love for
pretty dresses and dainty finery. Her pleasure
in the making of a becoming bonnet was very
nearly as great as her satisfaction in painting an
artistic fan. Her slender fingers delighted in
employment, and her compact brain was ever
occupied with concrete realities that gave a
definite motive to every act of her existence.
She was never visionary, and whatever her aims
might be they were clearly defined. Though she
loved painting, and meant to make a modest
name, and to have a studio, and to be independent
and perhaps luxurious, her appreciation
of Art never reached enthusiasm. The same
with her music. An innate sense of correctness
and the fitness of things, an unflagging perseverance
in striving up to the highest standard of
excellence revealed to her, brought her sometimes
close to inspiration, but could not make her
reach it.

'you ought to be very happy here, Esther,'
said Frederica, with just the faintest tinge of
envy in her voice, upon the first night of her
stay at Barwold.

"Yes, dear," replied Esther. "I am very
happy."

It must be a great change for you, after the
sort of life you have described yourself leading
on the island. What a lovely house this is, and
how nice they all are ! Lady Isherwood seems
the only discordant element, but one can't help
liking her after a fashion. I should enjoy
making a study of her, in a velvet dress, with
pearls on her neck, as she sits placidly in one
of those large arm-chairs after dinner, when she
is looking good-tempered. The solid comfort
here must be pleasant to you, Esther."

Yes, dear," said Esther. "It is very pleasant,
and I think that I enjoy it, but solid
comfort is not the only thing one wants."

"You are an odd girl ! I am never sure,
dearly as I love you, how far I understand you.
You always seem to be looking wistfully for
something, as though you were not quite satisfied."


After a short pause, Frederica added abruptly :
Is Ber — Mr. Comyn, often here ? "
"You forget that I have been here such a
short time, and the house was shut up while the
Isherwoods were abroad."

True — I forgot. He seems very fond of you."
Frederica looked at Esther with half inquiry.
Esther coloured deeply. Both the girls were on
the point of self-revelation.

Do you think so 1 " said Esther, hurriedly.
But it is you whom he admires ; I have heard
him say so. I am sure there is no one, no girl,
Bernard thinks of so highly as he does of you."

'' Really ? '' asked Fred erica, her eyes glistening.


I am quite certain of it," Esther sighed as
she spoke. ^' But it is not surprising. Who
could help admiring and loving you ? Dear
Frederica, shall I ever forget how good you were
to me when I was at school lonely and uncared
for ? "

"Nonsense," said Frederica, blushing, and
looking pleased. " What did I ever do for
you ? — and now that you are no longer lonely
and uncared for, you are good to me. Don't you
see ? It makes it all even."

"Nothing that costs to little could make it
even," replied Esther.

Esther was right in saying that Bernard
thought highly of Frederica. Every day that he
spent in her society he admired her more, telling
himself sometimes that if a man were seeking:
a wife, this was the sort of woman — modest,
refined, intellectual, almost beautiful, and capable
of devotion, yet not above the ordinary cares
of womanhood, with whom he would have the
most certain chance of happiness. He talked to

Frederica far more than he did to Esther, hanging
over her easel, discussing the technicalities of
her profession in an eager, interested manner ;
arguing with and instructing her ; and pulling
down books from the library shelves to point out
deficiencies in her education, while the unconventional
freedom of his manner implied to hera
personal interest that she was quite justified
in taking for granted. Whatever vague jealousy
of Esther there might have been in her mind
vanished now. Bernard would sit over the
piano with her for hours. Music seemed to
create a mutual dependence and understanding
between them. When she played to him he
listened silently, but a disinterested spectator
would have observed with curiosity how often
in the dusk, when Frederica s lissome fingers
distilled mild, suggestive harmony from the
Broad wood, Bernard would quietly cross over and
seat himself beside Esther, and how more often
his eyes would be fixed upon her face than upon
that of Frederica.

And through it all Esther was at first doubtfully,
then deeply, conscious of a tacit bond of
sympathy linking her and Bernard together.
She knew that one of those long, mute looks
towards herself, meant more than a thousand
oflib words addressed to Frederica. If he did not

talk much to her in company, it was not, she felt
certain, because he had no impulse towards her ;
on the contrary, his eyes appealed to her a dozen
times in the hour, and this, after all, though to
outsiders a deceptive, is yet an effectual, mode of
intercourse. As for herself, she felt that a lingering
pressure of Bernard s fingers made the night
sweet to her. His unobtrusive homage touched
her more than words, and she was constantly on
the watch, wittingly and involuntarily, for those
intangible marks of understanding which are only
transferable by those whose hearts are in unison.

The consciousness of Bernard's presence, of
Bernard's approval or disapproval, was with herat
all times, no matter how her brain or fingers
might be employed. It had come to be so with
her, that she knew Bernard's opinion almost
before it was uttered, and that during the dav
when he was absent, shooting or hunting, she
seemed to live only for the evening when he
would be near her.

And yet she never thought of connecting this
joy in his presence and in his affection, for she
knew that he cared for her, with what she had
felt in her early girlhood for George Brand. The
two phases of being were entirely irreconcilable.
She had never framed seriously to herself the
proposition that Bernard might wish to marry

her, or that lie might be willing to become ibis
wife. Love and marriage were not of what she
was thinking. She had loved George, and had
given her young heart and her maiden lips to
him, perhaps too freely, and certainly ignorantly
; but she had felt a joy in yielding them,
and she fancied that to no other man could she
ever belong so again. She tingled with modest
shame at the thought of George's passionate
caresses. With the recollection of that early love
episode there came always an involuntary recoiling
from her old self. She could not imagine
the being she knew now, to have ever been that
childish, craving, and unknowing Esther.

George had no part in her existence under its
present conditions. He was of the past, which
had still the faint glamour of intoxication, but
which carried with it also a flavour of shame.

The winter was a pleasant one, as winters go.
The pheasants were more numerous than had
been anticipated, and the frosts were infrequent;
therefore, though the would-be skaters grumbled,
the gentlemen who hunted on the other side of
the county rejoiced.

There had been shooting luncheons, Lady
Isherwood had given two or three dinner-parties,
and there were rumours, later on, of several balls
in the neighbourhood. Bernard, with the exception

of occasional runs up to London, seemed to
have taken up his quarters at Barwold, and to
have forgotten all about his projected work, while
Frederica had painted the much-desired fan to
match the cardinal dress trimmed with pink
bigonias, and had become the object of one of
Lady Isherwood's uncertain attachments.

One afternoon, when the young people were
lounging in the hall over five o'clock tea. Miss
Lina Welby appeared.

How happy you look here ! " she said, in her
easy enthusiastic gabble, with its little emphases
here and there. *this dear old hall is too
awfully enchanting. It is quite comforting to
come in and see it with its funny, old oak bookcases
and wood-fires. Sir Emilius has such
taste, but he bores me a little sometimes with
his talk about China, and old prints, and spinets,
and Queen Elizabeth, and the influence of Art.
It's all very nice, and mother goes in for it, but
one in a family is quite enough. You must
know mother better," continued i\Iiss Welby.
She accepted the tea Bernard handed her, and
seating herself in an arm-chair before the fire,
went on addressing herself chiefly to Esther :

She is such a darling in her way, and so
amusing. She is the salvation of our ramshackly
family. I don't know what woukl become of us

without her. She is like the Decalogue hung up
at the back of the Communion Table, you know,
with * Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt do no
murder. Thou shalt not bear false witness,'
legibly written upon her face ; and that reminds
me that I brought a note from mother to Lady
Isherwood, asking you all to dinner next week.
It will be too delightful if you can come."

Esther explained that both Lady Isherwood
and Sir Emilius were out driving.

*' How are the old women at Atherton, Miss
Welby ? " asked Bernard.

"They are very shivery, Mr. Comyn, and
require quantities of stimulation and parochial
comfort in the shape of ginger wine, and snuff,
and hymns. You won't give me any credit for
ray ministrations, and the roads are so muddy
that I am really obliged to clump about in
patterns."

Frederica, who was drawing, looked up shyly,
and remarked that it had been a very weet
winter.

It has been too awfully depressing," said Miss
Welby, giving her trim, bird-like head a little
twist which was peculiar to her. " We went to
Brighton last month, but it was rather a case of
putting claret into a sherry-bottle, and serving it
out with the soup, don't you know ? — for all

Woodfordshire was there. Since we came home,
we have had an archaeologist and an American
girl at Atherton ; you'll meet them when you dine,
and it is rather fun to watch them spooning one
another. I have some delightful schemes in my
head, Miss Isherwood ; I hope Miss Talmadge
will bring some music with her when you come.
We have got a cousin with us, who came yesterday.
He has just sold out of the army ; he
has been quartered in Ireland, and he is such a
dear. He has been telling: me all kinds of amusing:
stories about the way the Kilkenny girls made
love to him. You can't think what a comforting
boy he is. When mother is particularly dank
and ecclesiastical, and father more than usually
edgy about the foxes, he stirs them up, and
there is a fizz which is always exciting."

It was growing dark, and Bernard threw down
one of Frederica's chalks that he had been
sharpening. '' Let us come into the drawing-room
and have some music. Miss Welby, I am
sure that you sing."

Oh, yes, I sing," cried Lina, throwing off
her seal-skin jacket; "that is to say, I croak
English ballads and squeak Italian ditties. I can
do everything, Mr. Comyn, after a fashion. I
can write French poetry, and translate German,
and paint pink and purple landscapes, and play

VOL. II.

the piano in the style of the English miss educated
upon the Continent. Would you like to
hear me ? "

She ran into the drawing-room, and, seating
herself at the piano, trilled a French comic
song which sounded piquant enough from her
rosy lips. The room was picturesquely dim,
but the last rays of a red setting sun entered
through the casement window, and shed a glory
over the fair head of Frederica as she stooped
over the sorting of a bundle of music.

The piano was placed in an angle of the same
window, turned sideways towards the fireplace
with its antique logs and flickering wood fire.
The recess was very deep, and there was in ita
low seat half-shrouded by the curtains. A
spindle-legged table stood beside the piano, and
upon it was a bowl of pot-pourra, and a tall vase
filled with brown and crimson leaves. Upon the
wall opposite the piano hung a quaint mirror,
surrounded by an arrangement of China plates
and vases upon dead gold brackets. The mirror
reflected the light from the fireplace, and sentit
dancing back on to the China upon the walls
and the brass mountings of the cabinets. The
sun sank slowly behind a group of naked elms,
and the stars began to twinkle in a blue frosty
sky, Lina went on singing snatches by heart.

and presently Parkins brought in a mellow,
shaded lamp, which he placed upon the piano ;
but he did not draw the curtains, so that there
was still that fascinating mixture of daylight,
lamplight, and lamplight.

Now the light has come in," exclaimed Lina,
rising, "and it is your turn, Miss Talmadge."

Let us try those quartettes of Schumann's,"
said Bernard. He and Frederica seated themselves
at the piano, and there was a gentle
vibration as of stringed instruments, and a rippling
staccato movement, which swelled louder,
and hurried into a crisp crashing presto. Esther
and Lina were sitting gr near the fire. Wallenstein
stretched himself luxuriously upon his
mat, and the Persian cat crept from beneath the
portiere, and took up her position at Esther's
feet. *how" comforting it is to see a cat licking
its paws ! " said Miss AVelby reflectively regarding
the animal. " I think that I was once a
tiny kitty that never grew any bigger. I am so
small, am I not ? Oh, those heavenly violins !
Do you remember that fusty old St. James's
Hall, with the long row of men in black coats,
like mutes at a funeral, and that delicious
Norman Neruda ? This puts me in mind of it,
and then the delightful din outside, and those
dear hansom cabs. Oh, I love London so dreadfully

! How comforting it is to be reminded
of what one loves ! "

Oh, please don't talk' said Esther, breathlessly.


Bernard seemed in an inspired mood. Music
was with him always a powerful, emotional
agent. Every now and then he looked across at
Esther, and his eyes conveyed mutely the same
passionate harmony which was breathed by the
instrument on which he played. Frederica, too,
was borne upwards by his enthusiasm into
higher regions than any to which she had ever
attained. It was to her heart that the refrain
was speaking. It seemed to have a message for
her only. Her frame thrilled with the accidental
contact of Bernard's fingers. This was the true
joy of Art — the joy of being brought into intimate
association with the inner life of the being
best loved. The delight of her painting was
sullied by the sordid pressure of poverty, but this
inspiration belonged only to Bernard. He was
raising her to himself. The measure changed
into a rhythmic, yet emotional, march, and then
ceased. Bernard rose from the piano, and Frederica's
hands dropped into her lap. She was
thrilling with an excitement which no mere
perfection of execution or combination of harmonies
could have roused in her. She hardly

heard what was being said, and when a duet
was proposed between herself and Miss Welby,
had no will to object. Bernard and Lina
changed places, and the girls' voices blended
together in an English ballad. Frederica kept
her place at the piano, and Lina stood up against
the background of window and dim landscape.
Bernard and Esther stood at opposite corners of
the fireplace. Impelled by involuntary sympathy,
they turned towards each other. Esther s
glance was self-betraying, and Bernard's was full
of the warm passion that the music had sent
coursing through his frame. It brought to
Esther the sudden, deep conviction that he loved
her, as George had loved her upon the island,
and uprooted in a moment the calm sophistry
which had defined their relations as fraternal.
She felt as though her soul had leaped out from
controlling bonds, and had joined itself to his.
Her face became intensified with a new beauty.
The voices of the two girls seemed to be during
afar in a strain of angelic harmony. Esther
and Bernard forgot where they were in the
joy of mutual revelation. It was as though an
unseen presence sanctified their emotions, and as
if, in that higher life which, under exceptional
circumstances, seems possible to every finely
strung man and woman, their two natures must

be drawn towards each other, and cling together
through all time. They approached each other,
and their hands sought each other, and clasped in
unspoken understanding. Nothing was said —
there was no need for speech ; the look which passed
between them told the secrets of the two hearts.

The music ceased abruptly for a moment, and
Frederica's voice broke. " Good gracious ! " exclaimed
Lina; "have you lost your place? What
is the matter ? "

Esther and Bernard started asunder. They did
not know, nor did Lina, that the old-fashioned
mirror facing the pianoforte had, as Frederica
looked vaguely into its depths, reflected the
scene by the fireplace, and given back the
mutual drawing together and betraying gaze
and hand-clasp.

Something seemed to rise in Frederica's throat,
and choke the words she was singing. She
faltered, and almost broke down, but at Lina
Welby's exclamation controlled herself, and went
on, with just a little jarring in some of the notes,
till the song was finished.

"Thank you," said Bernard, moving towards
the piano ; " that was very charming, and it was
going so well ; but you have not sung together
quite often enough to bring your voices into
perfect accord."

"We must try it again before very long,"
said Lina. " I thought it very nice, all except
that one false note ; and if Miss Talmadge had
not stopped so suddenly no one would have
noticed it; but I must be going now. Mr. Comyn,
would you mind ordering my pony carriage ? I
am so sorry not to have seen Lady Isherwood,
but you will be sure to tell her how much
darling mother looks forward to seeing her next
Wednesday. You'll all come, you nice people,
and we'll have some more music."

The carriage came round, and Miss Welby
departed. Almost immediately afterwards Sir
Emilius and Lady Isherwood returned. They
had been making a call at a great house in the
neighbourhood famous for its pictures and China.

A most interesting visit," said Sir Emilius in
his piping voice. " Lord Atherton quite realizes
my idea of a high-priest of Art. A congenial
spirit, my dear; a rare thing to find. He is
coming over very soon to see my spinet. He
had a Statuaries, a gem, which I could not
help coveting. I must take you to see his
collection, my dear," he added, turning kindly
to Frederica. " It would interest you greatly."

Frederica's heart was swelling too high to
allow her thanks to be audible.

Lady Atherton is a perfect dowdy," said

Lady Isherwood, "and the tea was abominable.
I must have some more. Esther, ring the bell
for fresh muffins. It Alas extremely inconsiderate
of you not to have them ready."

She took up the note Miss Welby had left,
and began to explain its contents in a loud voice
to Sir Emilius, while Esther and Frederica took
advantage of the diversion to escape upstairs,
each seeking the solitude of her own bedroom
in order to review what had befallen her. Esther
sat down in an arm-chair by the newly-lighted
fire, trembling sith a half-guilty joy at the
assurance of Bernard's love, which the evening
had brought her. No woman, whatever may bethe
circumstances of her lot, can help feeling
a secret delight in the knowledge that she is
loved by the man to whom she has consciously
or unconsciously given her heart. In the first
swift rush of her emotion, Esther was not shy of
telling herself that she loved Bernard. She even
repeated, with a sort of defiant satisfaction, " I
am his — his altogether — and he is mine." But
the element of defiance brought with it one of
analysis, and following upon the first glow of
happiness came a flood of shame at the recollection
of other love-looks, other caresses, fraught
at the time with a more material intoxication,
from which the maidenly purity that prescribes

fidelity to the one, as the first article in the creed
of love, revolted now with a sense of humiliation.
It was borne in upon her as she sat in the half-darkness
of her bed-chamber, perplexed, wincing
• with girlish sensibility at the thoughts and
recollections that came crowding to her mind,
yet strangely excited and happy, that there was
another even greater barrier between herself and
Bernard than that of actual or fancied disloyalty.
It was the barrier which he himself had by his
own confession of opinions raised. His words,
as they had stood together upon the bridge, two
months aofo, seemed burned into her soul. She
remembered them every one, and the tone in
which he had uttered them. He had told her
that he held the man morally guilty who took
for a wife the heiress of disgrace. Judged by
his owen speech, he would be a traitor to his code
of duty if, knowing her father's history, he then
proposed to marry her. No ! — he would be
consistent and would give her up. She had a
woman's pride in this reflection, and, by all the
laws of heroism, she was bound to spare him
such another ordeal as that through which he
had passed, when he had sacrificed his affection
for the young American, in obedience to his
principles.

Esther did not understand Bernard's creed of

obligation to the race — which indeed, brought
under the pressure of passion, would have been
far more difficult of enforcement ; and, under
present conditions, it is questionable to what
extent his principles of eight years before might
have undergone modification. It was not natural
that a girl of nineteen should enter into such
questions of abstract morality. Esther had read
of possible physiological or psychological objections
to unions which might otherwise have been
suitable and happy ; but she had classed these
facts and theories with those indefinite considerations
which existed, but which were never likely
to entrench upon her individual experience, much
as a Laplander might regard the classification of
laws .relating to the phenomena of earthquakes
and cyclones — interesting data to a dweller in
volcanic regions, but positively unimportant to
himself.

But now that the consideration was brought
fairly home to her, she, girl-like, magnified its
weight in the scale of argument. An obstacle
of sentiment frequently appears to a woman
more difficult to surmount than one of fact, and
the less able she is to reason upon the impediment,
the more insuperable it seems to her.

The dressing-gong sounded while Esther was
still sitting over her fire, and she got up and

walked two or three times the length of the room
as ca vent for her agitation. Anne, the housemaid
who had been told off to wait upon her, entered
with her dress, which she had been ironing, and
proceeded to lay out her clothes. Esther threw
herself into the business of her toilette with a
feverish anxiety to escape from her thoughts.
While Anne was putting a few finishing touches
to her bodice, she remembered a bunch of
flowers which she had gathered in the conservatory
and had left in Frederica's room, intending
to divide it with her friend, and stepped now
across the corridor to fetch her share. The two
girls occupied chambers close to each other.
They had so often shared the same, and had been
accustomed to pass in and out of each other's
rooms without ceremony, that when Esther's tap
received no answer she turned the handle and
softly entered. Everything was in darkness, and
it was not for a moment, not till she had heard
an agonized voice, breathing in a wild sob the
words, " Oh, Bernard ! Bernard ! " that Esther
became aware of Frederica's presence. The
exclamation was uttered several times, but so
low, and in such gasps, that only Esther's quickened
ears could have distinguished the name.

Frederica was huddled up on the sofa at the
foot of her bed, her face buried in the cushions,

her frame shaken at intervals by deep-drawn,
quivering sobs. The opening of the door sent a
streak of light from the passage into the dim
room. Frederica started. " Who's there ? " she
exclaimed. " Put my hot water down, please."
Then she lifted her head sharply, and saw Esther
standing in the doorway. She buried it again
with an impatient cry — " Oh, go away ; can't
you leave me alone ?" that was quite unlike the
composed, gentle Frederica of ordinary life.

Esther stood still, bewildered by the suddenness
of the revelation that had been forced upon
her, and that seemed to numb for a moment her
own pain. Then she turned and left the room,
closing the door after her. She paused for a
moment in the corridor, while she lifted her hands
to her head as though to shut out the sound of
Frederica's sobbing. *' Oh ! how can I bear it ?
What can I do ? " she said wildly to herself,
scarcely realizing that it was not of Frederica's
anguish she was thinking, but of her own intolerable
suffering.

She dressed in a determined hurry, as though
she would not give herself time for thought ; and
when she had finished, walked up and down her
room till the gong sounded for dinner. Anne
lingered to speak to her about the Christmas
decorations, and she was surprised to find herself

entering briskly into the subject. At the last
moment, when she had reached the head of the
stairs, she turned back for another pair of gloves,
because those which Anne had given her were
soiled.

Frederica passed her upon the landing. Usually,
when they so met, the two girls linked
arms and interchanged comments upon their
respective toilettes, but to-night Frederica hurried
by, muttering that she was late, and entered the
drawing-room before her friend. She was very
pale; her eyes looked red, and her lips were
quivering. Bernard noticed the change in her
appearance, and inquired with a cruel solicitude
whether she had a headache. But she only
shook her head, and Bernard remarked quietly
that he thought Miss Welby had been a little
overpowering.

The evening was altogether dank and uncomfortable.
Frederica tried, at Bernard's request,
to play as usual, but made a lamentable failure ;
and Esther sat apart, over a frock she was making
for a child in the village, and studiously avoided
meeting Bernard's eye.

The two girls made an early move for bed, and
as Bernard handed them their candles, he detained
Esther for a moment in the hall, while Frederica
passed on up-stairs.

I am obliged to go to London tomorrow,"
he said, in an eager, excited voice, which did not
resemble Bernard's usual utterance. " I would
not go unless it were absolutely necessary, but I
shall return on Wednesday."

We are to dine at Atherton on Wednesday
evening," said Esther, looking down at her
candle.

Can I do anything for you in London? "

*' No, thank you ; nothing."

I shall start by the early train tomorrow, and
so shall not see you before I leave." Bernard's
tone was almost pleading. " Esther, say goodbye
to me now."

She held out her hand without looking at his
face. " Good-bye, Bernard."

'' Why are you so cold ? Why won't you
look at me ? " exclaimed Bernard, passionately.
Esther, I want to speak ; but surely there is no
need to tell you what I feel. After this afternoon
we must both know — " The drawing-room
door opened and Sir Emilius came out, peering
through his spectacles for his candle. Bernard
dropped Esther's hand. " Good night," he said,
abruptly.

Esther ran up-stairs to her own room, and
locked the door. She walked to and fro in a
secret agitation, her hands clasped above her

head. " I can't ! I can't ! " she kept saying half-aloud.
"I do love him. I must love him. It
cannot be wrong." A conscious smile played
about her lips and made them more soft and
womanly, and she blushed rosily at the remembrance
of Bernard's passionate exclamation —
After this afternoon we must both know " —
Yes, she knew. . . . Another moment and she
could not have refrained from lifting her face upto
his, and then concealment would have been
impossible. . . .

A second later, and Frederica's pale face shut
out Bernard's ardent eyes, and the sound of her
gasping sobs seemed to drown Bernard's half-uttered
declaration. Esther could not smilingly
contemplate her own joy, knowing that it involved
the misery of her friend. To rejoice in
happiness at the cost of another's woe was hateful
to her, and when that other was her friend,
to whom she was linked by ties ten thousand
times stronger than the mere school-girl attachments
which are formed and broken by the dozen
it seemed impossible. Esther's deep, enthusiastic
nature had sanctified the bond between herself
and Frederica into a sacred obligation on her
own part. She thought of what Frederica s affection
had seemed to her when she had been long
ing and praying for love, and magnified it into

something greater than it had really been. She
thought of Frederica's tender sympathy, of the
many kindnesses she had received at her hands,
of the happy days she had spent beneath Miss
Talmado'e's roof. She remembered how she had
sobbed out her grief at George's desertion upon
Frederica's bosom. She thought, too, of the vow
she had half unconsciously taken upon herself
then, of the echo of her words through the dim
chamber, and of how they had seemed to return
to her again after she had uttered them, invested
with a solemn meaning. . . .

'' I will be true ; I will try to be true*' sobbed
Esther, when after some hours of mental struggling
she laid her head^^upon the pillow.

In the morning she was awakened by the
rumble of the dog-cart wheels as they bore
Bernard to the station.

CHAPTER IX.

"my cousin, captain brand."

Bernard's departure took place on Saturday.
All that morning Frederica drew diligently in
her studio under Sir Emilius' supervision ; in
the afternoon she drove with Lady Isherwood,
and in the evening the Rector of the parish and
his wife dined at Barwold Court.

There was no opportunity for confidence between
the girls during the day, and at night,
instead of accompanying Esther to her room
for half-an-hour's chat, as was usually the case,
Frederica, looking miserable and impenetrable,
turned away at the door, and passed into her
own chamber, locking herself in determinedly ;
so that though Esther bleeding inwardly, pictured
her friend sobbing wretchedly upon her pillow,
but could not venture to comfort her.

To be wrath with one we love " is almost
the severest phase of mental suffering; but I
think that Esther suffered more keenly during

VOL. II. p

the estrangement than her friend. Frederica's
cold avoidance of her society pained the girl
more deeply than the bitterest spoken reproaches.
She did not know of that reflected look and
hand clasp which had betrayed so much, and was
at first at a loss to account for the change in
Frederica's manner; but she explained it to
herself by the supposition that Frederica resented
her intrusion the previous evening, and that her
pride was wounded at having unconsciously
revealed her secret.

On Sunday the two girls accompanied the
elders to Church, but not a word was said either
going or returning which had any private, personal
bearing. A dreary luncheon followed,
enlivened by a series of bald commonplaces ; then
the usual parish ministrations in the village.
Frederica had usually gone with Esther to carry
a dinner or read to an old woman, but to-day she
declined to assist. Esther returned alone, feeling
that she must at all costs break this wretched
barrier of reserve that debarred her from the
communion most precious to her now. She
determined to speak to Frederica, even if it were
necessary to say her whole mind, and to tell her
that for her sake Bernard's love was renounced.

Sir Emilius and Lady Isherwood were both
dozing over the fire in the hall, but Frederica

was not to be seen. Esther sought her in her
bedroom and studio, and in the morning-room,
and at last found her in the deserted library,
seated in a low window-seat, a portfolio of
sketches in her lap, and her face stony and
miserable, turned towards the wintry garden
without.

Except by Sir Emilius and Bernard this room
was seldom used, and upon this afternoon
Frederica had thought herself secure of solitude.
She looked up with a resentful surprise as Esther
entered. " I thought that you were in the
village, '^ she said, making an effort to speak in
her usual manner.

'' I have been, and have come back," said
Esther. "I looked for you everywhere, but
could not find you, so I thought that I would try
here ; I wanted to talk to you, dear Frederica.
We don't seem to have had a word together for
the last two days."

"We were both busy yesterday," said Frederica,
with a jarring laugh.

'* No," answered Esther ; " I don't think we
kept apart because of that."

She was yearning to throw herself into the
tide of Frederica's feelings, to identify herself with
her friend's pain, and to break, at whatever cost
of suffering to herself, this unnatural, hollow

P 2

reserve. All her heart was in her eyes as she
seated herself on the window-seat beside her
friend.

Erederica evaded the suoro-estion which the
words conveyed.

I am looking over the sketches I have
made' she said, coldly, without directly meeting
Esther's gaze, " to see how far I've got on, and
what I must still work at here. I have been a
long time at Barwold, and I am afraid that Aunt
Theodosian is lonely without me. I think that I
ought to go home."

Esther put out her hands and touched those of
Frederica, looking at her earnestly with a fresh
sympathy made all the keener by the consciousness
of her own pain ; but Frederica's face was
turned towards the window.

It is not that," began Esther, in tremulous
accents. " I know it is not that. You want to
go away because something has made you unhappy
— because you want to escape ; because —
(her voice broke) — I can't make you understand
what I feel. There are some things which it is
difficult to say. If people could but look into
our hearts they would see that we were full of
longing and love, only that we were afraid to
speak for fear of wounding." . . . Poor Esther
was trying to convey her own deep regret for

having unconsciously forced the sanctuary of
Frederica's feelings. If she could show her
sympathy without betraying her own suffering —
but her meaning came from her lips brokenly.
"I know," Esther went on, seeing that Frederica's
lips quivered, though her face was still set and
averted, " how hard it is to tell even oneself that
one — loves ; and how doubly hard to know that
another person outside ourselves has seen, has
heard, what we thought was hidden deep down
in our own hearts, so that we have scarcely dared
to put it into words. I know — I have felt — I
have loved — "

In the presence of Frederica's bruised pride
Esther could not say, " I love."

'you have discovered my secret," said Frederica,
in a cold, distant tone, and without turning
her head. " I cannot bear to think of it ; 1 am
ashamed ; I am humiliated by knowing that you
know what I feel ; but you have taught me that
women can forget easily. This is the first time
that I have cared, and perhaps I can forget too,
like others."

The repressed bitterness, the accusing ring of
Frederica's words, struck so deep home to Esther's
heart, that she did not for the moment feel that
they were ungenerously uttered.

You mean," she said, in a very low voice.

that I have forgotten ; but you are wrong. My
misery keeps me from forgetting. If I could
forget I should be false too."

Frederica turned at Esther's words, a fresh
thought softening her bitterness.

You are unhappy like me ? " she asked.

Yes," answered Esther ; "I am — I have been
very unhappy."

Esther was thinking of Bernard — of her conflict
and renunciation — but Frederica did not fathom
her companion's mind, and fancied that she was
alluding to George Brand and her early disappointment.
George Brand had scarcely been
mentioned between them since the night of
Esther's confession ; but till the previous evening
Frederica had believed firmly that Esther
still loved him. Was it possible that she had
been mistaken ? Could she disbelieve the evidence
of the mirror ? A tender impulse, unalloyed
for the moment by any jealousy, prompted her
to kiss Esther's lips that were near her own
face.

Forgive me," she murmured. " I have been
so miserable ; it made me so hard. I thought
you were happy, and that your joy was my pain.
I am glad that it was not so. Was it so ? " she
asked eagerly. " You know what I mean."

Esther hesitated for a moment.

No," she said at length. " It could not be
so. I could never have any joy that was pain to
you."

Frederica kissed her again, and the two clasped
each other and silently mingled their tears for a
minute.

I know," whispered Esther, her own heart
seeming to speak out of its anguish to that of
Frederica. " There is no pain so hard, nothing
hurts us so much, as to think one we love false
or untrue."

He will come ba(;k to you," said Frederica,
still imagining that Esther was referring to
Brand, but Esther said nothing to undeceive
her. "He cared for you," went on Frederica.
*' You were not humiliated by learning that you
had been mistaken, and that he had never
wanted your love. I could not help it," she
added, as if in extenuation of herself ; " I don't
think that I am vain, but he has always been
apart in my mind from other men, from the very
first day that I saw him in Westminster Abbey
and drew his face. It was like a fate that we
should be thrown together afterwards. He was
always so kind, and seemed to care — but I was
self-deceived."

Bernard is fond of you," said Esther with an
effort. " I have heard him say so. I have heard

him say that you were a woman with whom a
man could be happy."

*' But I saw him turn to you, and take your
hand," exclaimed Frederica, eager and longing
that her words might be contradicted. " I saw
it in the mirror above the piano, when Miss
Welby and I were singing. He never looked at
me as he looked at you then. It is you for
whom he cares."

Esther turned very pale. " He cares for me,"
she said almost inaudibly as though the words
were forced from her. " Yes, I know that he
does. He is so kind that he must care for those
who are lonely and dependent. I was lonely
and dependent when he first knew me. But it
is not as you think. He would not marry me ;
there is a reason why he would not."

Frederica looked earnestly and questioningly
into Esther's face. "Is it true, Esther ? " she
asked doubtfully.

"It is not as you fancy," repeated Esther.
He would not wish to marry me — if he knew
and I am not so light of love as you thought.
I will be true," she added earnestly.

Frederica asked no further question. She sat
silent, but her face softened from its former hard,
resentful look. Esther left the window-seat and
walked to the other end of the room, where she

stood for several moments before one of the
book-cases. There was in her a kind of exaltation
which arose from the consciousness of
having strained after what she believed to be
right. The sacrifice was scarcely voluntary, but
she would not have been human had not the
feeling which follows upon renunciation been in
her breast. She returned and kissed Frederica s
forehead. ^' You are not angry with me now for
knowing. You will love me attain."

Oh, Esther ! " exclaimed Frederica warmly.
"I don't deserve that you should care for me as
you do — I have always said so. How could I
help loving you ? It is myself that I hate."
*****

Bernard returned on Wednesday as he had
promised, but he did not arrive from the station
till quite late, when the rest of the party were
dressing: for the Atherton dinner. Esther and
he shook hands silently out of the carriage-window.


How tiresome you are, Bernard ! " said Lady
Isherwood. " You should have telegraphed tolet
us know for certain that you were coming.
How did you get here from the station ? "

*' I walked Hermione."

Of course five people cannot squeeze into
the carriage. You must sit on the box, and

Alfred must stay at home. It is a fine night ;
I daresay you won't mind opening the gates."

Atherton Hall — a large square-built house,
modernized, in doubtful taste, by a flat front onto
an Elizabethan back — gave out a flood of light
and warmth as the door of the softly carpeted
decorated hall was opened to admit the Isherwood
party. Lady Isherwood, gorgeous in the
famous cardinal satin, shook out her ample plumage.
Frederica looked graceful and lady-like in
her black dress and bunches of stephanotis ; and
Esther, with her small face and deep eyes framed
in dark hair, more than ever like a Sir Joshua
picture, in a white gown, with passion-flowers in
her bosom.

The drawing-room seemed full of people when
they entered. Beyond it, was a conservatory
lighted with coloured lamps and festooned with
a flowering creeper ; and Lina Welby in maize
carleton, with three or four black satellites round
her, flitted in and out among the shrubs and
ferns. Mrs. Welby looking like an harmonious
picture, in black velvet, and wearing a diamond
cross upon her shapely neck, received her guests.
Beside her sat an over-dressed, yellow, old lady,
the mother of a pretty American girl, who, be-fringed
and attractive with that delicate, slightly
got up beauty that is noticeable in young

American women, was talking through her nose
to a dried-up archaeologist with an eye-glass, who
leaned over her chair. Several other young
ladies in billowy garments, and gentlemen of the
country-house type, clustered about the small
tables, and looked at the photographic albums.
The rest of the company was composed of local
magnates, of whom the ladies wore old-fashioned
dresses and family diamonds, and talked about
their parishes, their children, and their governesses
; while their lords conversed upon hunting,
the price of oats — an interesting subject to the
M. F. H. and the proprietors of large studs — or
the last Conservative meeting at Woodchester,
and the blunders of their county member. The
Atherton parties were usually popular, and people
talked of it as a pleasant house where there
was no stiffness, and where *' the county " was
brought together.

Miss Welby rushed forward to greet Esther.
You nice person — how dear of you to come — you
look so lovely to-night, so unlike other people.
I have had such a trying day (in a lower tone) ;
two papas with shorthorn interests, and two shy
daughters who hibernate from November till
May (mentally, I mean), and haven't an idea
beyond lawn-tennis during the rest of the year.
My dear, if there's anything in the world that

bores me it's neighbours of the feminine gender.
I may say that to you, because you are such a
comforting creature, and not to be classed in the
category of county misses. Isn't it a fearful function
to-night? Do come into the conservatory.
Doesn't it look pretty lighted up ? I am going
to introduce my cousin to you. Dear boy ! He
is to take you into dinner. Mind you make him
tell you about the places he has been to, and the
Irish young ladies. George, come here."

Esther perceived dimly, behind a flowering
myrtle shrub, the outline of a black figure, and
the turn of a head that seemed strangely familiar
to her. In a moment the gentleman had come
forward, and Miss Welby was introducing him.
'' My cousin. Captain Brand. George, you are to
take Miss Isherwood in to dinner ; make yourself
very agreeable — she likes being amused."
And then Lina darted into the drawing-room,
leavings Esther standing face to face with her old
love.

The recognition was swift. Something like
the same rush of feeling that had overpowered
Esther at Burlington House swept over her now
the same minorlinor of sensations, of attraction
tinged with repulsion, and annihilation for the
moment of her present identity, as their parting
rose vividly before her imagination. The grave

upon the shore — the steamer upon the horizon —
the last impassioned kisses — the two figures —
eager man and drooping girl hurrying along the
beach — the wrench of farewell — the boat which
bore him from her, dwindling into a speck upon
the waves — and then the despair and blank
desolation which had fallen upon her after his
departure. It was difficult to realize, that she
and George were standing now a pace apart, in
the very centre of that English civilization
which had been as a dream to her — a part of his
life.

The meeting was a greater shock to George
than to the girl. There had been no intermediate
glimpse to keep alive the remembrance, and he
had almost forgotten Esther during the time
which had passed since they parted. Only a few
moments before, he had been saying some soft
nothings to Lina, and had told himself that a
man might indeed do worse than secure so lively
a companion for the rest of his earthly career.
Ever since old Lord Coniston had signified his
intention of leaving Grately to George there had
been a sort of tacit understanding among the
Atherton folk, that if at his death the two young
people were agreeable, the estates should be
joined in their persons. There had been no
definite arrangement, nothing to fetter the two

parties concerned, but just sufficient to impart a
pleasant arrive jjensee to their intercourse. Now
in the space of a moment, a thousand sensations
half-forgotten, but of a pungency never surpassed,
came crowding back upon George, and made his
cousin's attractions appear insipid and commonplace.
Lina was only an English girl who had
been brought up in an atmosphere of conventionality,
and whose amusing gush became mannerism
upon closer intimacy — a girl, too, who would
always flirt with him, and whom he thought he
might have at any time for the asking; but
Esther was the heroine of a beautiful incomplete
poem, which had left off at the point of supreme
interest, and which natural curiosity made him
honos to resume. Her impose had not troubled
his peace or interfered with his pleasure. It
had not made his life a whit purer or more noble ;
but faded though it was in his mind, it was yet
encircled with a halo of romantic fervour that
set his brief passion for her above all the other
ephemeral loves he had known. And there were,
too, mingled with the memory of her, associations
that chimed in with his luxuriant, pleasure-loving
temperament. The thought of her was mixed up
with recollections of days of Southern languor
and passionate summer — of still, sensuous nights,
laden with the scent of jasmine and stephanotis

of voluptuousness of nature and emotion that
had never, under similar combinations, been presented
to him since. He saw a subtle conflict of
feeling upon her expressive face, and with the
impatient desire to turn the tide of her impulses
towards him, he stretched his hand out eagerly
and touched her arm. " Esther ! — Mousie ! — who
would have dreamed of meeting you here ? You
have not forgotten me ! "

The pet name acted upon Esther's heart much
as a vigorous breath acts upon a half-expiring
ember, kindling a momentary life and then dying
away. She had often imagined this meeting, and
had pictured to herself at times a scene in which
all the finer elements of melodrama should be
mingled. She had seen George in fancy — passionate,
pleading, regretful — had fancied herself
scornful and seemingly cold, while yet her whole
being should be strung to the highest pitch of
emotion ; but she had not dreamed that she
could, by any possibility, be indifferent.

Now, after the first shock, she felt that she
could almost speak to him calmly, could even
take his hand without any painful agitation.
There was something wanting ; it was like the
half-dead coal. The life seemed to have gone out
of her passion. It was like looking at the still
face of a late living actor, who had had the power

of stirring to grief, or joy, or mirth ; there was
the mask left, but the motive spring was broken.

I could never forget you," said Esther, in the
grave, sweet voice he remembered.

'rand the dear, old days at the island," continued
Brand : " days that would have been all
happiness but for the last cruel one that brought
the misery of parting ? "

'' No," said Esther again ; and he observed
with joy a deep blush spreading like a wave over
her face and throat.

Darling ! " he murmured with passion ; and
then Esther looked at him, her deep, clear, yet
perplexed eyes seeming like those of a child, to
ask from him an explanation of the change which
had fallen upon her. It was the same voice — no
lover had called her " darling " since he had done
so upon the island — but there was a total absence
of those mysterious thrills which such expressions
of endearment had once produced. A little of
the old glamour lingered about his presence, but
it was like the ghost of dead emotion that could .
never again be a living force.

"Oh, hush ! " she exclaimed, in a pained voice ;
don't say that — not now."

Why not now ? " asked Brand, hurried by
excited longing into an explanation which he
did not reflect might be compromising. " You

blame me perhaps for not having gone out again
to Australia — for not having made an effort to
find you in England ; but you don't understand.
There were influences to contend against, difficult
to resist. There was my uncle — he is dead now,
and I am my own master. At that time it was
impossible for me to make advances. I should
have beggared myself for life. A man has no
right to bring misery and poverty upon a woman.
In my — my order of society these things are
not looked at from a sentimental point of view.
I could not know that you were different to
what you seemed — that your position had
altered. . . ."

1 wrote to you," said Esther, with a pained
perplexity in her eyes and voice — " I wrote to
you twice before I left Australia; I directed the
letters to your bankers as you had told me."

I never got the letters," cried Brand. *' Those
infernal dolts. I'll swear the letters never reached
me."

George," said Miss Welby, nodding through
the archway. " Don't you see every one going
in to dinner ? "

VOL. II.

THE DINNER PARTY AT ALLERTON.

George gave Esther his arm, and they followed
the procession into the dining-room. Mr. Welby,
with Lady Isherwood on his right, was seated at
their end of the table. Lina, flanked by the Rector
and the archaeologist, was opposite. Sir Emilius
had taken in Mrs. Welby ; and Bernard, with
Frederica beside him, had been placed some distance
off, and was just visible to Esther through
a rift in the foliage-plants that decorated the
table. He was bending over Frederica, and she
was smiling and blushing brightly. The soup
was handed round mid such tentative remarks as
usually preface a dinner-party. Private conversation
at such close quarters with half a dozen
pairs of ears was next to impossible. When their
neighbours' tongues had been somewhat unloosed
by sherry, George whispered to Esther : " Do you
remember our first meal together on the island?"

Esther uttered an almost inaudible " yes."

*' And our meeting and walk afterwards ? Ah 1
it seems but yesterday since you and I were
sitting together by your mother's grave. There
are some things which strike one's imagination
so vividly that one would think of them if one
were dying."

Sir Emilius been hunting much this winter ? "
asked Mr. Welby of Lady Isherwood on George's
left. " I forgot though ; he don't go in for hunting
as we do here — antiquities, China, and that sort of
thing. More in your line, eh, Farquharson ? "

** I like a day with the hounds as well as anyone,
Mr. Welby," said Mr. Farquharson, the .
" But talking of foxes, we found
a very perfect skeleton the other day among the
Roman remains at Puddenham — a most interesting
discovery."

"A live fox in the Puddenham spines last
Saturday would have been a more interesting
discovery to me," said the Master. ** I am convinced
that keeper of Chesterton's is a rascal.
What a shocking run we had that day, George !
I am sorry that fellow who was stopping with
you — French, eh ? — hadn't a better experience
with the Grately. What did he say to it ? "

He has gone back to Melton in disgust, sir.
He says he can't stand the hunting in these parts.
He's a crack man across country, is French."

Q 2

I did not think much of his mount," said Mr.
Welby, a little testily, '*or of his riding either
for that matter."

It's the country, sir. The fox always runs
in a circle about here. It's no test for a fellow's
riding."

Nonsense ! " said Mr. Welby. " It's not the
country at all — and a fox is bound to come
round ; " and then ensued a little argument in
which some of the other sporting guests joined ;
and George turned again to Esther.

I hear Sir Emilius Isherwood called your
uncle. But I am hanged if I understand the relationship.
The whole thing seems topsy-turvy,
like a dream. Is it possible that your father was
his brother ? "

Yes," replied Esther ; 'ewe did not know his
real name till he died. Hush ! please ; don't speak
so loudly. My aunt is sitting near us, and Sir
Emilius does not like me to talk of my father in
general company."

Brand looked surprised, and then shut his lips
as though upon reflection the scruple was evident
enough to his understanding. It was not probable
that Sir Emilius would care to own such a
brother as Hagartt.

"You live three miles away from here, don't
you ? I know Charles Isherwood ; he is rather a

wild fellow, and went in for racing. Of course
I know your uncle and aunt after a fashion too,
for I was brought up in this county. My uncle,
Lord Coniston, died last year, and I am going to
live at Grately — if I can. It is like an incident
in a play, Esther. Who would have dreamed of
your beinor transformed into an Isherwood ?"

Esther ate her roast mutton in silence.

I suppose I may talk of the island ? " continued
George. " That month was the very
happiest in my life. Nothing has come up to it
since. And now that I am beside you again, it
seems as though it had been yesterday. I can see
you standing on the cliff, as I was rowed oJ0f to
the steamer. Mousie, that was a fearful wrench tome.
Some fellows oughtn't have minded it much,
but I felt as I was on the steamer going back to
Sydney, that it would not have taken much more
to make me drown myself. Well, I came back
with the regiment to Eno;]and, and I have been
knocking about till quite lately, when I sold out
of the army. We were quartered at Malta for a
time. Perhaps that was how I missed your letters;
and you — you heard nothing of me, I suppose ? "

"How should I hear?" asked Esther with
some bitterness. " One does not hear anything at
School — when one is miserable, and eating one's
heart out ; it is then one loses hope."

"Were you very miserable, Mousie ? " asked
George, tenderly.

*' Yes," said Esther ; '' but," she added slowly,
I have not been miserable for a long time ; and
I'd rather, please, that you did not call me —
Mousie. I saw you once — "

'' When ? where ? "

"At an exhibition of pictures — only for a
moment. And then you drove away in a
hansom. You looked well and happy."

Esther ! " exclaimed George, *' I will call you
Miss Isherwood if you like it better ; but that
sort of thing is a mockery between you and me.
I see that you misjudge me ; I have a great deal
to say to you ; I must say it by-and-by. There
was my uncle — you 7}iust understand that. I
could not go against him. As it is he has
treated me infernally — but it is all different
now."

The voices of Brand and of a cadaverous-looking
young man, who had been enlightening Miss
Golightly, the American, upon the doctrine of
spiritualism, became disagreeably predominant
in a lull of the conversation. George paused
abruptly, but the spiritualist went on :

Ah ! Miss Golightly," he was saying, " it is
a solemn thought that we are surrounded by
myriads of invisible beings, who, did we but

recognize the fact, are striving to refine and
elevate our gross natures."

*' I guess I don't want be to elevated," exclaimed
Miss Golightly, in alarmed nasal tones.

It depends upon the nature of the elevating
agent, eh Squire ? " said the Rector, who, though
he was long and spare, and wore bands, and was
pronounced ' High Church,' liked his joke, touching
his glass which the butler was refilling.

*' Capital fellow, Lightner," whispered the
Squire in an aside to Lady Isherwood. " Goes in
for Saints' days and church decorations, and
suits my wife down to the ground, but can stow
away his bottle of port like a — layman. Gad,
there are few laymen can do it as well. I always
say. Rector, that there's a special dispensation
granted to parsons in the matter of liquor. It
don't get into their heads as it does into ours.
Look at Prendergast, the man they say is to be
our new Bishop. There is not such another
cellar as his in Woodfordshire, and I don't know
a better judge of claret, or one who has got
through more hogsheads of it. But it don't
seem to hurt him : go to him after dinner, and
if you want a sound opinion about anything he'll
give it you — short, but to the point."

"Prendergast listens," said Doctor Lightner,
"but he never commits himself to anything

original. That's how a man acquires a reputation
for wisdom ; he looks solemn and holds his
tongue, and his friends call him sound."

Do you like my cousin Lina ? " asked George,
turning to Esther.

I don't know ; I can hardly tell ; I think she
is amusing.

'eyes, she is amusing, and she will have
money. Do you recollect my talking to you
about her, during; our ride from the Pilot Station
to Bully Wallah ? — and now to see you dining
together at the same table ! I cannot understand
how everything has changed with you. I may
speak about your father now. Lady Isherwood
is not listening. Why did he call himself
Hagartt ? "

I cannot tell you," replied Esther. "rit is
what I long to know, but they will not tell me ;
I may say this to you, for you know so much
already."

*'0f course I know," said Brand, "that he
was what they call in Australia ' a bad hat.' I
daresay that he got into a scrape in England.
I believe," he added, suddenly, " that 1 know
all about it. Was your father's name Eobert ? "

Yes," replied Esther.

I was looking over an old escritoire of my
uncle's the other day, and I came across a packet

of private letters which he had evidently forgotten
to destroy. I glanced at them from curiosity, and
to see if there was anything I ought to keep— and
there was one from Robert Isherwood which I
burned after I had read it. It was a confession."

A confession ! " Esther looked up breathless
with anxiety to hear the revelation for which
she had longed so deeply of late. Tell me what
was in the letter ; I ought to know what concerns
my father — what must concern me, for I inherit
his disgrace — if it was disgrace. No one has any
right to keep rae in ignorance."

She spoke in deep agitation, and Bernard,
furtively watching her from behind a bushy
coles plant, observed her tremulous eagerness,
and wondered why she should look so imploringly
at this stranger.

^' I can't tell you now," said George. " Seethe
ladies are leaving: the table. I am not sure
that I ought to say anything. It is like betraying
secrets, you know — I don't know if it would
be right. Well, if you really wish it, I'll come
to you in the drawing-room or the conservatory
by-and-by. The conservatory is an awful jolly
place. Lina and I often sit there ; but I tell you
I am not sure that I ought."

*^ Surely," said Esther, " I have a right to
know what concerns me so closely."

After all, it was nothing so very dreadful,"
said George. " Plenty of fellows of good family
have done the same thing — " He picked up
Esther's fan which she had dropped in her
agitation ; and she became suddenly aware that
Lina Welby, brushing by almost the last of the
file, was looking at her curiously. Bernard too
had risen, and was watching her keenly from
beneath his horizontal brows.

Miss Welby linked her arm within that of
Esther. " What do you think of George ? " she
asked, as they paused at the drawing-room door.
I wondered what you could be talking of. You
looked as though you had forgotten where you
were. Isn't he a dear, comforting boy ? — and I
always think he is so handsome ; as sleek, and
brown, and interesting-looking as a Dachshund
puppy. I always tell him that is a most flattering
comparison. Dachshunds are too sweet."

Fortunately Miss Welby never wanted an
answer. "Come and sit beside me upon the
sofa," she continued. " I have a quantity of
things to say to you. Do you know that I shall
be twenty-one in three weeks time ? and Mammy
has consented — no Saint's day interfering — to
celebrate the occasion with a ball. It's rather a
function, but it's amusing. You'll get a cardin
proper form tomorrow. George has been

helping me to fill them up. Don't you love
dancing ? "

*' I have never been to a ball in my life," said
Esther.

'* Never ! — been to a ball — Oh ! you nice,
unsophisticated person ! You are too refreshing.
I must tell George by-and-by. Mother, darling
— only fancy, Miss Isherwood has never been
to a ball in her life."

Then I am sure," said Mrs. Welby, turning
her velvety eyes away from Lady Isherwood
and Mrs. P. Cromwell Golightly, to whom she
had been uttering harmoniously-emphasised commonplaces,
" that it will be too kind of dear Lady
Isherwood to bring her to yours. Dear Lina is
so excited about her ball," she added in a lower
tone. " Her twenty-first birthday — such a fitting
occasion for gathering our young friends about
us — and with George here too. You noticed my
nephew, dear Lady Isherwood. It is such a
handsome expressive face ; isn't it ? "

Lady Isherwood assented, and Mrs. P. Golightly,
who was strong-minded, and went in for the
higher branches of female education, and entertained
views upon physiological disparity as an
important element in matrimony, remarked, that
it was unfortunate Miss Welby and Captain
Brand were both dark.

Oh, dear Mrs. Golightly ! " exclaimed Mrs.
Welby, " that is quite premature. I assure you
nothing has been even suggested."

I suppose that you have not thought about
the trousseau," said Lady Isherwood ; '' but I
always think that for style there is no one to
equal Leonie."

And then Mrs. Welby explained that Lina had
shown no preference ; that it had been the dear old
Lord's wish ; but that she, Mrs. Welby, thought an
older and perhaps a more reliable husband would
])e better suited to one so gay and thoughtless
as Lina. Girls are a sad anxiety," she added
pathetically; "and I see, Mrs. Golightly, that
you realize what a responsibility an attractive
daughter is to a mother."

"I guess," said Mrs. Golightly, "that the
responsibility of young people often lies with the
hostesses as much as with the mothers. One
can't tell who is going to be invited to a country
house to meet one's daughters,"

I suppose a hostess is bound to provide
eligibles," replied Mrs. Welby sweetly, " and
there her responsibility ends. And Mr. Farqu-
parson is a most excellent man — so interesting
about those Roman antiquities — and there is a
fine property."

"He squints," said Mrs. Golightly; "and I

guess I couldn't entertain that idea at any price.
And he is always giving Amelia bits of pottery
and old coins, and I guess I don't like it."

"I am afraid his heart is touched," said Mrs.
Welby, sympathetically. 'rit is always a bad sign
when men make presents of that kind. Lina had
an admirer once, an antiquarian, or something of
the sort. He had a passion for China, and would
you believe it, dear Lady Isherwood, was perpetually
giving her tea-pots ? Poor darling ! she
couldn't quite refuse them, you know — tea-pots
are not (quite like anything else, and some of
them were Nankin — but when it ended in a
proposal and rejection, the tea-pots added to the
awkwardness of the affair."

Meanwhile Miss Welby had gone to the piano,
and was turning over duets with Frederica.
Esther, thinking of George, had stolen into the
conservatory and had seated her self in a fern-screened
corner. By-and-by she saw the gentlemen
filings in from the dining-room. Bernard
was one of the first to enter ; he looked thoughtful,
and his lips twitched, a sure sign that he
was discomposed, while his eyes took a rapid
survey of the room, as if in search of someone
— herself perhaps. Immediately behind
Bernard came George, and Esther had an opportunity
of observing how he appeared amongst

other men. He was flushed, and his eyes had a
suspicious brightness, which attested the strength
of Mr. Welby's port. There was a scarcely perceptible
swagger in his walk, and he had a way
of throwing back his head which seemed to indicate
a conviction of the important place he
occupied in the scale of creation. He resisted
Miss Welby's smiling invitation to join the circle
round the piano, and after looking round the
room, and ascertaining Esther's absence, he made
straight for the conservatory, where he placed
himself upon a low-cushioned stool by her side.

Sweetest," he murmured, " you don't know
what a lovely picture you are now, with the
drooping passion-flowers over your head, and
that bank of fern and azalea as a background to
your figure."

There was a suspicion of license in his tone,
and he edged closer to her. Esther resented
the broad compliment, and recoiled a little.
You promised to tell me what you knew about
my father — the letter — "

The letter ! " repeated George, his eyes fixed
upon her with open admiration. Oh, Robert
Isherwood's letter to Lord Coniston ! It is
curious what threads link our destinies — that I
should be the one to discover your father's crime.
Do you really wish me to tell you what I learned

by chance ? The knowledge can neither benefit
nor harm you now that you are living with Sir
Emilius. I don't suppose there is a soul in the
county who remembers your father."

It can," cried Esther. " It might affect my
life deeply. You said that it was not a great
crime. Perhaps ignorantly I may have magnified
it in my imagination. If you can relieve
my uncertainty, it will be mure than kind of
you to do so."

How ceremoniously you talk ! You speak as
though I had never had any deeper interest in
you than that of a stranger. What will you
give me for my information ? "

Esther drew back and half-rose from her chair ;
George's manner offended her. '^ Nay," he said,
seeing that she shrank from him. " I was only
joking. It is not much that I ask — only that
lower that you are wearing."

She detached the blossom from her dress and
held it towards him. George brushed it with his
lips, and while she was burning with impatience
played with it for a moment before he placed it
in his button-hole. " Eobert Isherwood and my
uncle would appear to have been friends as
young men. That was natural, as their homes
adjoined, and I daresay they were at school or
college together. I'll try and state the case as

shortly as I can. Robert Isherwood, who is
apparently in disgrace with his own people,
forges Lord Coniston's name. He writes appealing
for mercy, and pleads stress of debt and
an unfortunate connection in which he has
involved himself, as an excuse. Circumstances,
which I don't gather, render it impossible for my
uncle to save his friend from disgrace. I fancy
the matter has been taken out of his hands, and
that he is powerless to act. Robert Isherwood
is tried in a distant county, and, as 1 conclude,
transported. I don't know anything more. The
affair was, I imagine, hushed up, as I never heard
of it, and I don't suppose any one else about here
has done so. But for your words this evening,
and the having so lately read that letter, I
should not have connected you with Sir Emilius
Isherwood's scapegrace brother."

Esther sat silent for several moments, her
thoughts crowding round her own and her
father's past, and connecting both with Bernard's
words. This was indeed disgrace, as deep as
any fraudulent bankruptcy. Her father had
forged his friend's name, and had been transported.
She was the daughter of a convict, and
her limited experience of the world in Australia
had taught her what a term of obloquy that was
considered even there. How much worse to the

ideas of an Englishman with a keen sense of
honour ! Her whole being rose in dumb protest
against the injustice of circumstance. Why
should she be the child of a forger, a drunkard,
a suicide ? Why should she, who was innocent
of evil thought, have inherited disgrace so manifold,
while Frederica, a poor, struggling artist,
was yet spotless in her lineage ? Aunt Theodosian's
pride of ancestry seemed no longer
ludicrous and vulgar.

Are you at home in the morning ? " asked
George suddenly.

Esther started. " What did you say ? "

Are you at home in the mornings ? " he repeated
; then added, struck by the pallor of her
face — '' Don't think any more about your father.
I wish I had held my tongue ; but how could I
refuse what you begged so hard for ? It is your
own fault ; I would not willingly have given you
pain. Never mind, Mousie. / don't think any
the worse of you because of your father's misfortunes.
Esther," he said, taking her hand, *' what
has changed you ? You are not soft and gentle
as you used to be. In the old days you trembled
and flushed when I spoke to you, or touched you.
Now you are quite different. Surely you have
not ceased to care for me ? You are not so cruel
as to blame me for not ruining my prospects, and

VOL. II. R

acting in defiance of my uncle ? Why are you
so reserved ? I had pictured you, if we ever met
again, coming to me with shy gladness — but you
don't seem to care."

Esther drew her hand gently away. *'I do
care," she said brokenly. "I have cared far
more than you could have done, but — I don't
understand myself. Something seems to have
hardened me. I have. not wished to change, but
I feel that 1 can never be again the old Esther
of the island. It is the island Esther whom you
want ? "

*'No," said George ; "T don't care whether it
is the island Esther or the English Esther. I
want you. I want you to be kind to me as you
were once."

That is being the island Esther — and I cannot
help shuddering when I think of that time.
It is painful to me to recollect what happened.
I — I gave myself to you so freely — I was so
young, so ignorant. I gave you the right perhaps
to — despise me — to treat me with freedom
now."

My sweet, innocent Esther ! " said George.
Is that all that troubles you ? "

No," replied Esther. " If I felt the same
towards you as I did then, I should not shrink
from myself as I do. I should be true to the

past, as I know it is right to be — but it is — it is
that I am not true."

Do you mean," said George, " that you are
eng^aofed to another man ? "

No," said Esther, still more brokenly ; ''I am
not — I ought not — I shall never be engaged to
another man."

Her denial and agitation calmed George's rising
jealousy. Besides, it was not possible to believe
seriously that any one could be preferred before
himself.

My darling ! " he said tenderly, " don't be
angry with me for not being cold as you are. I
have not changed, nor have you in reality, I am
convinced. You are excited and upset now by
our sudden meeting. A great alteration has
come over your life since we parted. You hardly
know what you feel. You are a little ashamed
of your past life, and you judge yourself by an
English standard ; but there is nothing for which
you need blush. I won't frighten' or press you.
You were always a timid, uncertain, little thing.
Do you remember, dearest, the storm at Bully
Wallah ? "

It seemed to Esther that to discuss the past,
under present conditions, was impossible. To
admit that she remembered all those sweet,
bygone emotions was to admit that they had

been genuine, and to aggravate her fickleness
and falsity. " Don't let us talk of that time
she said imploringly ; " I can't bear it now."

** I will not if it pains you," answered George.
*' I will not say or do anything that you dislike,
Esther."

The last words were loud enough to be audible
to any one standing near, and at that moment
there was a rustle against the leaves of a bushy
fern that screened Esther and George from
observation by the occupants of the drawing-room,
and Bernard and Erederica appeared in
the archway. There was a grim, angry look in
Bernard's mouth and eyes, and had not his
companion advanced, and so pulled him forward,
he would have turned back into the drawing-room.
Frederica glanced from one to the other surprised
at the excited eagerness in Brand's face, and the
agitation in that of Esther.

Esther," she said, " Lady Isherwood has sent
me to look for you."

Esther rose, and linking her arm within that
of her friend, returned with her to the drawing-room.


This is a jolly place to sit in, especially at
night, when it is lighted up with, these coloured
lamps," said George to Bernard in an affable true
which caused the latter to wish that it were

sometimes permissible to kick one's undeclared
enemies in the conservatories of one's acquaintances.


Soon afterwards the party broke up, and the
Sherwood drive home was enlivened by Sir
Emilius' snores, and Lady Sherwood's wrathful
tones, as she scolded her niece for carrying on so
barefaced a flirtation with Captain Brand.

I never saw anything so shameless in my
life. There you were sitting alone with him in a
corner of the conservatory from the time the
gentlemen came in from the dining-room till a
few minutes before we left the house. And he is
as good as engaged to Lina — Mrs. Welby said so ;
and a wild, dissipated young man, who would go
any lengths with a girl. It would surprise me if
you were ever asked to dine at Atherton again ;
and it is such a pleasant house, and gives one
such an excellent opportunity of wearing one's
London dresses, which get so shabby lying by in
the country. Pray, may I ask had you ever seen
Captain Brand before ? "

I knew him long ago in Australia, Aunt
Hermione," replied Esther, constrained by the
direct question to truthfulness.

^' In Australia ! " cried Lady Isherwood. " I
don't believe a word of it. You only say so to
excuse your conduct. What should Captain

Brand have been doincr in Australia ? I don't

o

like Australia ; it is a place where people learn
nothing but bad manners.

The carriage stopped before Lady Isherwood
had finished her tirade. Bernard got down and
ran the bell ; Sir Emilius lighted his candle
in the hall and went to bed. Lady Isherwood
continued her lecture, regardless of Bernard's
presence, till he interrupted her angrily.

That will do, Hermione ; you are keeping
bliss Talmadge up ; and if Esther has done anything
wrong, you have scolded her sufficiently."

If Esther has done anything wrong," cried
Lady Isherwood. *' If you are going to take her
part, I shall say nothing more. Perhaps you
approve of young women flirting, and making
themselves conspicuous."

I don't like to see young women made
conspicuous in any fashion," said Bernard, shortly.

"Bernard," shrieked Lady Isherwood, "you
are dropping the wax upon my gown. Give
Frederica her candle at once."

Frederica took it from his hand, and went
up-stairs. Lady Isherwood followed her, still
scolding Bernard for his carelessness, and he and
Esther were left standing in the hall together
lit her candle, and deliberately placed it again
upon the table.

Esther ! " he said in a hard determined voice,
^' I had intended to make an opportunity of speaking
to you privately this evening, but till now
you have given me none. Something in your
manner the night before I went to London made
me doubtful where I had felt almost certain. I
shall go away tomorrow unless you tell me to
stay."

Esther stood silent, and taken aback. She
realized that her fate was in her hands, and that
to-night she must decide between herself and
Bernard for ever. The determined way in which
he spoke compelled her admiration, while it made
her task doubly hard. He would indulge in no
sentimental appeals — of that she felt certain, and
she esteemed him for his proud reserve. Her love
tor Bernard was too far removed from her girlish
infatuation for Brand, for demonstration to be to
her taste. Even his passion — she knew instinctively
that it was there — smouldering, as it were,
beneath his cold demeanour, would not carry hai
where he had not meant to go, and might, by
any paltering with truth on her part, be easily
turned to resentment. He would have no half-measures.
All the good-fellowship of their intercourse,
the kindness and sympathy apart from
deeper, personal interest, that he had shown her,
would go for nought. Either they must be all

to each other or less than nothing. If she were
to send him away to-night they could meet as
friends no more. She had the alternative of
complete confession of her circumstances and
feelings — but that would be throwing upon him
the whole cost and burden of decision — another
mental strusfofle against the " misjht have beens "

Co O o

and there was nothing in his face or manner to
invite confidence.

Well," he said with grim impatience, that
broke out of the constraint he had placed upon
himself; "there is not much need for consideration.
Am I to go or stay tomorrow ? "

Esther looked up at him with deep, imploring
eyes.

*' Oh, what can I say, Bernard ! — what can I
say ? "

If you have any doubt in your mind as to
your reply," said Bernard, with hard decision,
*that is enough. It is simply a question of
what you desire. I will not stoop to plead. If
you wished me to remain there would be no
hesitation in your manner of bidding me do so.
It is a fault of mine, I know, to be over-confident;
but a few days ago I should not have expected
to see in you doubt and indecision as to your
feeling towards me. There shall be no doubt
between me and the woman I love, so I am

answered plainly. After what I saw and heard
to-night I understand better the change in you.
Perhaps you will reply truthfully to two questions,
and then I will detain you no longer. Did
you give the flowers from your breast to that
man with whom you were sitting in the conservatory
this evening ? "

Esther stood silent, with her eyes downcast.
The veiled contempt in his tone, hurt her keenly.

You don't answer — I beg your pardon — I
have asked an impertinent question."

I — I gave them," faltered Esther.

One more ; — you remember the winter exhibition
of pictures at Burlington House, two years
ago ; was it Captain Brand the sight of whom
agitated you so painfully then ? "

Yes," replied Esther.

Thank you," said Bernard, in the same rasping
manner. " I won't trouble you any more ; I
shall go away tomorrow before you are up, and
we shall probably not meet again for some time."

Bernard," cried Esther, in child-like despair ;
but he was not even looking at her, and did
not appear to have heard her. He took a few
steps towards the other end of the room, and
this turning of his back upon her faint appeal,
seemed to her to indicate an utter insensibility
to her pain. Had he shown the least sign of

tenderness she must have approached him, and
told him what was in her heart. She would
have thrown upon him the burden of decision.
Frederica and her love and suffering were almost
forgotten at the moment. They were all human
beings, with hearts and passions. Why should
one be sacrificed for the good of another ? As
for that self-raised barrier, it would be well, at
least, to give him the choice between his love and
his theory of duty. . . . But he looked so stern
and impassive ; his mouth never trembled, nor
did his eyes turn upon her with a softening
glance. Perhaps his egotism was more acutely
wounded than his heart. Surely if he felt
deeply he would show some sign of suffering.

'' Bernardo'* she said again, in a last, desperate
effort ; " it is for you that 1 care — for you that I
mind."

Bernard turned this time, and came a step
nearer. He could not blind himself to the pain
in her face.

Good-bye, Esther," he said, holding out his
hand. " I understand what you feel ; you mind
for me — because you think that you are causing
me suffering. You mind — because your conscience
smites you a little. It is like a woman's
inconsistency ; but I thank you for the impulse.
Good-bye ; I am going to work now, and I will

scrunch the rest out. Don't reproach yourself; it
will not mend matters. I won't wish you happiness
in the future ; if you are going to be happy,
you wall be so, and no platitudes from me will
make any difference either way."

He walked firmly away towards the smoking-room,
closing the door behind him with almost a
bang. The tapestry portiere fell over it, and
seemed to Esther to resemble the barrier that
divided their lives.

She heard the smoking-room bell ring, heard
Bernard give directions to Parkins for the dogcart
to take him to the station early the next
morning, and then ask for a glass of brandy. By
that sign alone did she know that he was moved,
for it was not a habit of his to take stimulants.
He rather piqued himself upon his abstinence, and
despised men who enjoyed their after-dinner potations.
He was full of fads about eating, drinking,
and exercise, and Esther almost smiled to herself
as the thought crossed her mind that he would
probably make hard work, pedestrianism, and spare
diet counter-irritants against disappointment.

Esther took up her candle, and went weary
and hopeless to her own room. At the door,
Frederica, her eyes bright with excited interest,
her long, fair hair falling over her pink flannel
dressing-gown, met her.

Esther, I have been listening for you ; what
a long time you stayed down-stairs. I won't
keep you a moment, for you look quite over-done.
How horrid it was of Lady Isherwood to scold
you ; but then she could not know. I felt
certain, when you said you had known him in
Australia. I have been on thorns all the evening
since I was told his name, and after what I heard
in the conservatory — I was sure thcD almost.
Oh, Esther ! dear Esther ! was it — is it George ? "

"Yes; it is George."

I knew you would meet again," exclaimed
Frederica triumphantly ; " I felt it. There is a
fate that brings people together who are fond of
one another ; " and she blushed as she spoke.
"He cares for you as much as ever; no one
could help seeing it in his face. Dear, dearest
Esther, I am so glad, and now you will be happy
at last''

It seemed to Esther at the moment that this
misunderstanding of all her motives and feelings
this crediting her with a loyalty that she did
not possess — this utter failure to see what she was
suffering — was harder to bear than all the pain of
renunciation. She allowed Frederica to kiss her,
with a bitter feeling in her heart for which she
hated herself directly afterwards, but which kept
her from returning: the embrace. She answered

nothing ; it did not seem worth while to speak.
Why deepen the false impression ? why try to
remove it ? It was better that the mists of
misconception should not be cleared away.

She went to bed, but not to spend the night
in uncontrollable weeping, as we are led to
believe is common with heroines when the lights
are out, and the day's tragedy played. I doubt
whether a weak woman, who has come somewhat
mentally bruised out of a crisis in her life, has
often energy for violent emotion.

Esther lay down, and after a little while slept.
Her slumbers were scarcely even troubled, for
she dreamed that her mother was with her, as
that guardian spirit had often bec, when the
poor girl had huddled herself up in her little
bed, broken down physically and mentally by her
father's drunken violence. A tender voice seemed
to be saying to her : "I will teach her so that
fidelity shall be the ruling principle of her life.
I will teach her to renounce everything that
seems sweeter than duty. . . . The sweetness
cannot remain — there must always be a curse
with it, and the curse clings till death. ."

Chapter XL

GEORGE BRAND BECOMES A SUITOR.

Frederica looked a little sorrowful and preoccupied
for several days after Bernard's departure
; but there was sufficient harrowing uncertainty
as to his feelings, in her mind, to make
her acknowledge to herself, that in the present
crisis of affairs his absence was partly a relief.
She worked diligently at her painting, shirking
topics which bore upon herself; and there was
indeed small encouragement for her to discuss
personal matters with her friend, for whenever
she approached tentatively the subject of Bernard's
abrupt withdrawal, or openly that of
Captain Brand's advances, Esther shrank as
though she were probing a painful wound.

Erederica could not help remarking that Esther
looked worn and miserable, but she attributed
the girl's dejected manner and pale cheeks to
suspense and uncertainty as to the state of
Captain Brand's heart. Frederica herself entertained
no doubt upon the matter, and felt

certain that the love story would end with,
They lived happy ever after ; " but then, to be
sure, Esther had not the quick, impartial vision
of a disinterested spectator, and must necessarily
be agitated by anxiety and expectation.

In truth, poor Esther had altered strangely,
and looked so hopeless and unhappy that her
changed appearance must have been commented
upon by any household less obtuse than that of
Barwold. As it was. Sir Emilius was engrossed
by his preparations for the private publication of
the * Family Chronicle.' Lady Isherwood had
begun to work a chair-cover in rebels after a
design of Frederica's, was in full correspondence
with Leonie upon the subject of her dress for the
Atherton Ball, and was moreover in deep anxiety
about the health of Bijou, who threatened to
follow Floss into an untimely grave ; and Frederica
had her private theory upon the matter,
and was occupied with her work and her own
heart troubles.

Esther read diligently to Lady Isherwood
every morning, held her aunt's crewel skeins,
attended upon Bijou, walked and drove as usual ;
and none noticed her absent manner, and lack of
interest in her employment, or her sudden flushing
and starting whenever the door bell rang or
the footman entered with letters.

Miss Welby brought Captain Brand over to
call at Barwold two or three days after the
Atherton dinner party.

*you nice romantic person," she said, enthusiastically,
to Esther. " I always say to mother, that
getting intimate with one's neighbours is like
pinching a Sally Linn, there is nothing but dough
and fluff; but with you, the better one knows you
the more interesting one finds you. I was awfully
puzzled at the earnest way in which you and
George talked together the other evening, but he
has explained to me that he knew you years ago in
Australia, when his regiment was quartered there.
I have been trying to make him tell me all
about you, and the sort of life you led, but all I
could get out of him was, that you lived upon
an island that was almost uninhabited. I never
heard of anything so truly delicious and Robinson
Crusoeish. I said to mother, * Mammy, darling,
why didn't you send me out to Australia and have
me brought up on an island ? — perhaps then I
should have been interesting, and unlike other people,
instead of the commonplace frump that I am.' "

We are very dull at Atherton now," continued
Miss Welby. " The social atmosphere is as
heavy as pease-pudding in a pot nine days old.
That's a saying I heard in the village the other
day — please don't think me vulgar. Mrs. P.

Cromwell Golightly has taken fright at Mr.
Farquharson's attentions, and has insisted upon
returning all the broken bits of pottery and
petrified foxes' bones that he showered upon
Amelia. He has gone back to his excavations,
and Mrs. Golightly has carried Amelia off to the
house of a lord where there is an eldest son with
a fair Apollo-like cast of countenance and hyacinthine
curls, which she affirms to be the correct
physiological contrast to Amelia's black fringe
and retrousse nose. Miss Golightly glances disconsolately
at a mummy-like photograph of her
adorer which she has contrived to retain, and
says in a melancholy tone : * I guess I don't want
to be paired like a Dresden figure.' George is
going over to Grately to shoot, and then I don't
know how I shall exist; but the dear boy is
planning a pheasant shooting-party, with ladies ;
and I believe he is going to talk to Lady Isherwood
about it."

George acted with more diplomacy than might
reasonably have been expected from his boy-like
impatience of disposition ; first of all securing
Lady Isherwood's co-operation in the Grately
scheme — like a child, she could not. resist the
prospect of pleasure — and then devoting himself
to Frederica, while Lina talked to Esther. •

I think he is so nice, dear," said Frederica

Vol. II. s

afterwards to Esther. "So good-tempered and
agreeable. Perhaps not quite the sort of person
I should have expected you to fall in love with ;
but then he is so handsome, and people always
marry their opposite in character."

This was Fred erica's way of surmounting the
dissimilarity of tastes and disposition, which, regarded
from a psychological point of view, would
have delighted Mrs. Golightly. George had a
way of skimming over the surface of things which
impressed the world at large with a sense of his
pliability and easy benevolence. And then his
manners were so adaptable, and his smile so
winning ; and as one grew accustomed to his face
and conversation, the faint repulsion they occasionally
excited passed completely away.

Esther felt grateful to George for respecting
her reserve, and abstaining from any sign of a
mutual understanding. Though quietly attentive
to her, he was careful not to extinguish,
by any abrupt demonstration, her flickering
regard. His passion for Esther had been inflamed
by her evident repugnance upon their first
meeting, and had revived with such fresh force
as to make him timid and prudent in his
advances. Not that he anticipated the least
difficulty in winning her. He was accustomed
to believe himself irresistible, and was on the

whole disposed to consider himself a fine, disinterested
fellow, for being willing to waive the
questions of Avant of fortune and tarnished
descent. He did not consider these drawbacks
except superficially, and as arguments in the
balance of his wishes. He was not given to such
nice calculations as those involved in the adjustment
of desire to circumstance. To want a
thing was in his estimation sufficient warrant for
having it. Regret, or the adaptability of the
coveted object to his particular needs, spiritual or
material, might come later, and would probably
be then accompanied by conviction, the result of
disagreeable experience, that he might have done
better. In that case some one must clearly be to
blame, and the scapegoat certainly not himself.

The Grately party was fixed for the week
preceding Christmas, and the Atherton ball was
arranged to take place early in January. Frederica
had now been nearly two months at Barwold,
and proposed returning to Magenta Terrace
immediately after Miss Welby's party. Her
musical powers caused her to be somewhat
sought after in society, and both the Isherwoods
and Captain Brand had been eager in entreating
her to remain for the two pieces of gaiety.

During the next ten days George made
frequent excuses for visiting Barwold. Either

s2

Lina wished to practise duets with Frederica, and
required an escort ; or Lady Isherwood must
see specimens of a famous breed of toy-terriers,
one of which was destined to replace the now
defunct Bijou ; or the Grately library boasted an
antique volume ; or there was a rare print which
must receive the seal of authenticity from Sir
Emilius' well-known judgment ; or the hounds met
near Bar wold ; or the run ended on that side of
the county, and " a cup of tea," or, be it confessed,
a draught of whisky and seltzer, before joining the
ladies, ^' was so jolly after a long day's ride."

One day, riding over from Atherton, he met
Esther pacing the avenue alone. He dismounted,
and slipping his bridle over his arm, joined her
in her walk.

** As solitary as ever," he said ; " do you remember
how fond you were upon the island of
roaming about alone ? "

I am afraid that it is my nature to be solitary,"
answered Esther. " I cannot remember the
time when the outside world quite satisfied me."

'' Oh, that is because you have always led such
a dull life, and are fond of reading and that
sort of thing," said George, with one of those
miles that invariably made Esther realize, in a
greater or less degree, upon what opposite poles
of thought they took their respective stands.

I often wish that I could sit down to a book
and rejoice in imaginary things — people that
never existed, facts that never took place. I
am always intensely bored unless I have something
definite to look forward to. T have
heard Lina say the same thing ; but I suppose
that women are different. I hate having no
pleasure in prospect. Just now I'm longing to
show you Gravely'*

'' Why ? " asked Esther. '' It is a big, fine
place, isn't it ? — but I don't know much about
grand, old houses."

** Nor I," said George. " Frankly, I am a
perfect ass about antiquities. They bore me ; I
detest old things. That is one of the points Lina
and I arc agreed upon."

Esther could not help smiling. " Do you always
belie yourself in that way ? It was only the other
day I heard you emphatically assuring Sir Emilius
that if there was one thing in the world you
loved better than old China it was old pictures."

"Oh, a fellow can't always be responsible for
his words. " I daresay you heard me telling Miss
Talmadge that I adored the grand opera. To
tell the truth, I always go to sleep except when
Patti or one of the swells is singing. I like
jolly music though, like Tie Sorcerer, or 3Iadanie
Ingot. But," he continued, *' it is not from

the architectural or decorative point of view that
I am anxious for you to admire Grately. I want
you to like it well enough to feel glad that it is
to be your home." He uttered the last words
with a glance half-audacious, half-beseeching,
towards her averted face.

*' It will never be my home, Captain Brand." "

'' Yes, it will — when we are married. I don't
want to hurry you, or bother you, but I am
determined that you shall be my wife. I know
that I can make yon happy."

The confident tone in which he spoke made
Esther turn towards him with that longing to
trust herself to the judgment of the man, which
a doubtful woman always feels.

*' Do you really think so ? " she asked, shyly.

Of course," replied George. " What is to
prevent us from being completely happy ? I
would do everything that you wished, and you
would be sure to like Grately. The worst of it
is, that it is such a huge place to keep up. It
was an abominable shame of my uncle to leave it
to me without a large enough income to enable me
to live there properly. I suppose the old man
thought that I should have Lina Welby's money."

Why not marry your cousin, George, and
remove the difficulty ? "

'* I would in a moment if you and she could

change places. Lina is a very jolly girl, though
she is rather a pocket Venus ; and I never cared
much for little women. I did think of her as a
wife, but as soon as I saw you again I knew that
it could never be. You are the only girl I have
ever loved in that way, and I mean to marry
you, darling."

You don't consider your cousin's feelings — "

*' I don't think Lina has much feeling," said
George, with a little tone of pique. " Lie only
cares about flirting. She was teasing me about
you the other day, and I as good as told her that
I was fond of you."

George," said Esther, " do you think it is
right for a woman to marry a man if she does not
love him ? "

If you mean that you don't love me, I'm
not afraid of risking that."

It seems to me," said Esther, *' that it is the
one thing to be afraid of."

You loved me two years ago," exclaimed
George.

Yes," said Esther ; '* I must have loved you
then."

I don't believe that it is possible for a girl to
change so utterly in so short a time. Either you
were only pretending to love me then, or you do
care for me now, though you will not own it."

It is my shame not to love you," said Esther
very low.

** Dearest," said George, " you exaggerate all
these feelings. That was always your way.
One never quite knows how to take you. Don't
hesitate any longer, dear Esther, but look at me
and say frankly, ' George, I will be your wife.' "

I cannot say that, "replied Esther, "unless I forget
the two years during which we have been parted.'

You are angry with me for not having
sought you. It is unjust to blame me. I
thought I had explained all that. You know
I was not my own master, and when I came to
England it seemed so improbable that we should
meet again. But you must feel satisfied that, in
spite of everything, I have always loved you.
And I have never released you from your engagement.
Do you not remember your promise,
that no matter what happened in the future, you
would belong to me, and to no one else ? I
claim you now."

"You forget that you have tacitly released
me," said Esther. " You would never have
reminded me of my promise had you not met
me accidentally at Atherton. You have given
me to understand that you would have married
Miss Welby, or another girl, without thinking of
my existence."

That was because I had given up all hope of

ever meeting you again. Having seen you once
more, I feel that it would be quite impossible forme
to marry any one else."

And then," said Esther, slowly, " there is
another thing. I have no right to bring upon
you, or upon any other man, the shame of my
father's dishonour."

Oh, as to that," exclaimed George, " I suppose
that, knowing all the circumstances, I am
at liberty to judge for myself. It does not alter
my feelings. I don't say," he added, "that it
might not have made a difference if we had met
now for the first time. As it is, I love you too
deeply to allow any consideration of that kind to
come between us."

** You are very generous," said Esther.

** It isn't generosity," replied George, in a
tone which implied that he was fully alive to
his disinterestedness. " Mousie," he exclaimed
with sudden vehemence, " what can you want ?
Surely you can require nothing more than love
and fidelity. Let the old sweetness come back
again. It is not a fresh thing ; it is but renewing
the past. I only ask you to be true to yourself."

He advanced his arm, as though he would have
drawn her to him, but Esther shrank back.

*' I want to be true," she cried, in an agitated
voice. " Can you not see that I am struggling*
against myself? I want to be sure that I owe

myself to you. I know how hard it is to be
denied what we long for. If I am your happiness,
I would belong to you if I could. When we
cannot make our own joy, we can at least sometimes
make that of others — but I want to
think. I want to be sure that it is right."

George did not press his desire to embrace her,
though she looked tempting enough as she turned
her agitated face, coloured by the wintry walk,
full upon him. He let his arm drop by his
side, and vented his discomfiture upon his horse
by pulling angrily at the beast's bridle. " Very
well," he said. "I won't worry or annoy you,
since you mean to keep me at a distance, but do
not let me be long in suspense. Try and makeup
your mind to what I wish. Will you promise
that, Esther ? "

'' I will try."

It is hard upon me," he continued, " when I
am ready to do everything for yon that you
wish. When I am willing to give — " He was
going to say, " Give up so much for your sake,"
but checked himself. *' Esther, I put a ring on
your finger when we parted. Have you got it ?
Will you wear it again now ? "

I have it," she said colouring, " but I could
not — I have not been able to wear it."

Let me see you with it on at Grately, Esther,
to please me."

At that moment they reached the house, and she
entered it without saying yes or no to his request.

The more Esther pondered upon her position
the more strongly it seemed borne in upon her,
that since George wished her to marry him she
must do so. All the strongest cords of her
nature seemed to bind her into passive obedience
to his will. She had given herself to him without
a moment's hesitation when she had been a
lonely, ignorant child, yearning for love, and
looking upon the young handsome stranger asa
demi-god, specially favoured by her mother,
and sent expressly by the higher powers for her
comfort. There still lingered a shadow of the
old glamour, and though his divinity was now
less patent to her understanding, all the loyalty
of her disposition bade her be true to the early
impression. Then, too, the solitariness of her
young bringing-up had deepened every influence
that had ever been brought to bear upon her
character into an almost compelling power ; and
all those influences combined in George's favour.
Affection had always been so precious to her, and
gratitude was the feeling that had ever swayed
her most strongly. She was thankful to George
for loving her, and she could not but be touched
by the generosity, which overlooked her want
of fortune and the taint of her descent, and she
had strong within her that moral chastity and

shrinking from infidelity, which is more or less
present with every enthusiastic, pure-minded
woman.

She had drifted unconsciously into love for
Bernard, but it was love of that kind which
rather caused her soul to yearn for his sympathy
and companionship than her heart for his devotion.
The very nature of her love seemed to bid
her sacrifice it to an ideal standard of right. What
he had done she could do. It was incumbent
upon her to emulate his high-mindedness. And
then she told herself that to call her renunciation
a voluntary sacrifice was claiming too much for
it. Bernard would never marry her if he knew
her father's history. By-and-by perhaps he would
marry Frederica ; and thus two people, if not a
third, would be made happy at the cost of her
own problematical pain.

Poor Esther ! If the giving up of individual
desire be indeed the truest source of content, she
was young to arrive at the conclusion ; nevertheless,
so she reasoned in a groping fashion, and
when the time came for the visit to Grately, she
took out George's ring, which had been carefully
locked up in her desk, and sealed her fate by
placing it upon her finger. George noticed it
the evening of their arrival, but except that he
looked flushed and elated, he wisely forbore to
press his advantage, and did not even force his

attentions upon Esther, devoting himself rather
to Lina selby.

Miss Welby was quick-sighted enough to have
seen long since how matters stood, and had
sufficient cleverness to abdicate her position
without the smallest loss of dignity. Her vanity
might perhaps have been wounded by George's
defection, but she was far too volatile to have
been seriously hurt, and had at the moment
another admirer in tow, who had the charm of
novelty to recommend him. She made a point
of laughing openly at the family scheme of
matrimony, and contrived to impress Bedfordshire
in general with the belief that she had
good-naturedly refused her cousin, and that
partly in pique he had turned to Esther.

Grately Park was a large mansion of grey
stone, half Elizabethan, half nondescript, like
many of the other family seats in Woodward shire.
It was built in a quadrangle, which made it
appear larger than it was, and was rather a show
place in the county, having a staircase by which
Queen Bess was said to have ascended, and an
historic gateway, and fine painted ceilings. It had
a banqueting-hall, and a traditionary ghost ; but
the reception and living rooms were in a modern
wing of the house, and the old part was falling
to decay, while under the present owner there
appeared no likelihood of its restoration. George

had no aptitude for the equation of antiquarian
aspirations with free, modern expenditure, and
was far from having solved the problem of how
Grately — Elizabethan and Victorian — was to be
maintained suitably upon an income of less than
four thousand per annum. A property suffered
to fall into neglect during the latter reiorn of an
hypochondriacal and uninterested sovereign, was
not likely to be improved by a new owner, who
had extensive ambition in the matters of a hunting
stud, and game preserving, and an inadequate
income, and back debts. But though George
had drains of several kinds upon his purse, the
matter did not seem to trouble him to any serious
extent ; he talked of the improvements he meant
to make, and with the ostentation of humility
depreciated the hot-houses and vineries, and
found fault with the stabling, in a manner that
savoured of swagger.

You had better have had a try for my fortune,"
said Lina Welby, one day ; " though I think you
were wise to take up another line, for of course
you know that I would not have accepted you ;
but, seriously, you will never be able to live here
comfortably on your income."

You know nothing about it, Lina."
Oh yes, I do ; I know how far money goes
with you, and I know more than she does,"
nodding at Esther. '*"Wliat made Uncle Coniston

SO angry with you before he died 1 "

How can I tel ? "

"I am sure that you can. I heard that
you had been leading a fast life, you bad
boy ; and he had just got an inkling of it. I
think it is wonderful that you wicked creatures
ever find women silly enough and trustful
enough to have you. The more I see of life the
more firmly I am convinced of the badness of
men. They do well enough to flirt with, but for
husbands ! I am convinced that if I ever marry,
it will be some straitlaced Eitualistic clergyman
with bands and a tonsure."

Parsons are the worst of the lot," answered
George, laughing; "and though you talk so
much about the parish, Lina, it is not any more
in your line than severe virtue is in mine."

*' George," said Lina, *' there are different
kinds of virtue. As I say sometimes to mother,
Darling mother, it's not the bad people in this
world that make me feel wicked all over ; it's the
good ones." There is a sort of Brand's concentrated
essence of priggish virtue that is intolerable,
but there is a fat, toleration, easy-going
goodness that is particularly comforting when you
get hold of it, and that is what I mean to go in for."

The party at Grately lasted four days, and
was voted by every one extremely pleasant.
Bachelors' entertainments usually are. The

gentlemen shot in the daytime, and the ladies
joined them at luncheon in the keeper's cottage,
or some such rural refuge from wind and
weather, where hot stew, and cold fricandeau,
and sherry, and champagne, in unlimited quantities,
gave more satisfaction than those comestibles
could have afforded if partaken of in the stately
dining-room. Upon the return from the coverts,
the ladies would clothe themselves in becoming
tea-gowns, and congregate in the hall where
there was always a huge log alight, and abundance
of tea and buttered toast. The elders
would make up quartettes of whist, and the
younger ones would cluster round the piano,
while Frederica Talmadge played dreamy airs
by Schumann and quaint sonatas of Mozart, or
Miss Welby sang lively French songs.

Dinner would' follow, and perhaps more music,
or a round game, or dancing. It was all
pleasant. Frederica thought, that but for the
lack of one element essential to her perfect
happiness, there was nothing left to be desired,
and sometimes reflected sadly upon the sordid
contrast that Magenta Terrace would shortly
present to all this grandeur.

END OF VOL. II.

/

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are. reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

JUN 3 lie

L161— O-1006

AUSTRALIAN HEROINE.

R. MURRAY PRIOR.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited, 193, Piccadilly.

1880.

[All rights reserved

R. CLAY, SONS, AND Taylor,

BREAD STREET HILL.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

THE ALLERTON BALL 1

CHAPTER II.

THE HONEYMOON 33

CHAPTER III.

DISSATISFACTION 61

CHAPTER IV.

BERNARD CALLS AT MAGENTA TERRACE 82

CHAPTER V.

YOU HAD ONLY TO CHOOSE " 110

CHAPTER VI.

PAGE
AUNT THEODOSIA's DIPLOMACY 137

CHAPTER VII.

•' YOU HAVE MADE THE BURDEN OF MY OBLIGATIONS TOO

HEAVY FOR ME " 163

CHAPTER VIII.

"l WANT TO BE FREE " 190

CHAPTER IX.

MR. LYDYIARD AS PEACEMAKER 211

CHAPTER X.

AN IMPERFECT UNION 237

CHAPTER I.

THE ALLEETOX BALL,

It was the night of the Atherton ball, crisp
and frosty. The terraces in front cf the house
had long rows of lanterns which shed a dim
illumination upon the whitey-brown ground and
the frosted branches of the trees with their
pendent stalactites. Crimson carpeting had been
spread upon the stone floor of the portico, and
as carriage after carriage drove up, the ever
opening hall-door revealed to each new comer
radiant glimpses of stately dowagers in diamonds
and feathers, and of fair young girls in clouds of
tulle and lace who looked as though they had
been pelted by a capricious goddess of spring.

The supper had been ordered from Gunter ;
Comte and Finney provided the music. Another

VOL. III. B

»

eminent fine had sapennteiided the declarations.
E^i^jthiiig that money or taste could achieve
had been done to eosine a isacce^.

The Canons large houses in the neighbourhood
c«mlzibnted parties, and among them fiarwold
n's not decent ; fcs; as Lady Isherwood vein
pio^peilj remarked, When one's nei^honrs do
gi«^ balls it; is only considerate to do iidiat one
can to make them go off weD, in the way of
getting people from ar to attend them ; and,
nmeoT^r, it was a positive sin to allow one of
Leonie's triumphs to ran the nsk of bang wasted
upon dull eonntzy people.

'^ That would indeed be throwing pearls before
swine"' said Mr. Lydyiard.

To the suppose of every one at Barwold, Mr.
Lydyiard had, in Accordance with sir Emilius'
repeated invitation, proposed himself, at the very
time f^ the Atherton ball, and Lady Isherwood
was smneidiat annexed thereat, for she would
have preferred a younger and more attractive
n - - displaces

going to the ball, Mr. Lydyiard ? "

"I pKopo?^ : 1

g i a,viiy, "if I :. - ::.i m one oi me

engages.

Lydjiaid i. . - . . coming down

to Barwold just then, and though balls were not
much in his line he had made up his mind to beat
this one. He had seen Bernard in London,
and his inquiries as to the state of affairs at
Woodchester had elicited the fact that George
Brand was in the neighbourhood. Bernard had
looked hipped and savage, and Lydjiard had
jumped at a conclusion which he had partly comedown
to verify.

"You are not looking veil, Esther," he said,
when they were alone together.

Oh yes ! 1 am quite well." replied Esther
absently.

"Are you troubled al u: - ng, child ? "
asked Lydyiard searchingly.

I don't know," she answered, looking down ;
"I have felt perplex"' n- ^:• ^h-:^.t I ought to do,
but I think I have .

I saw Bernard Comyn in London'" sai J Mr.
Lydyiard, p ' '-y. '" He left Barwold-u.Llenly^
it seems."

Yes," replied Esther, with a deep blush.

I fancied," continued Lydyiard, regarding her
with attention, "from his manner, and other
things, that you might have had something to do
with his departure. Was it so ? "

Esther had her face turned away, and kept it
averted as she replied, ** Yes ; I sent him away."

I am sorry," said Lydyiard ; '* I thought that
perhaps you might have returned his affection ;
and Bernard, though he has many faults, and not
least among them an instability of purpose and
a tendency to self-confidence, has always been a
favourite of mine."

"There is no use in talking about it," said
Esther, in a high, hard tone which he had never
before heard from her lips, and which checked
further discussion. *' It could never be. There
was a strong reason against it. Don't let us speak
of it again. It is only between him and me''

One question more," said Lydyiard, ^* which
has no direct reference to Bernard. I can respect
your reticence. It is true that George Brand is
atGrately?"

Yes ;-we have been staying there."

And he is the same ? I mean that his feeling
his passion for you — has revived as strongly
as ever ? "

Yes," said Esther slowly, " I suppose so'
The entrance of Frederica put a stop to the conversation.


Just before dinner, Lydyiard was standing by
the fireplace in the drawing-room, when Esther
came down ready dressed for the ball, in fleecy
white tulle with bunches of waxen flowers upon
her breast and in her hair. Round her neck was

a string of valuable pearls, which Lydyiard had
caused to be placed upon her dressing-table, with
a note, in which he asked her to wear it as his
gift. '' How can I thank you ? " said Esther,
with all a child's pleasure in the pretty things.

Lydyiard could not repress an exclamation of
pain' at the associations which the sight of her
and of the necklace round her throat produced.

What is the matter ? " asked Esther anxiously.


Nothing. You are very like your mother,
and these pearls are as much your right as my
gift. She wore them."

*were they hers?" cried Esther-'Oh, I
shall prize them ten thousand times more. But
how did you get them ? I understand'' she
added. "They were a present from you which
of course she returned. My poor mother — poor,
patient, faithful mother ! I know now," she said
suddenly, looking at Lydyiard, *' how her life was
embittered. I know what was my father's crime. '

How ? What I Who has told you ? " asked
Lydgiard eagerly.

"He forged Lord Coniston's name, and was
transported. It was George Brand who told me
that was strange, was it not ? There was a
letter of his among Lord Coniston's papers, and
George read it."

Did he tell you anything else ? "

'there was nothing else. There could have
been nothing worse."

It was George who told you this ?" repeated
Lydyiard, thoughtfully. " And he wishes still to
marry you ? "

He does not mind the disgrace," said Esther,
unconsciously emphasizing the pronoun. " You
must see how it is," she went on, with an agitated
longing to be reassured by Lydyiard, who had
long ago partly given a bent to her motives.
*' You must see that there could be no one else
to whom I could be the same. I owe myself to
him. I promised that I would belong to him.
We ought to be true to the past — you said so —
my mother said so. She had cause for remorse,
and there could be no worse pain than to reproach
oneself for the sorrow of another's'

"You are right, Esther; there is no pain so
keen and corroding as that which comes to us
from the knowledge that we have marred another
life through a selfish eagerness to clutch at our
own happiness."

His words seemed to have a cold, but direct,
bearing upon Esther's case, but he had failed to
catch at the questioning in her tone, and was
thinking more of his own past experience than of
her present doubt, as even with the most sympathetic

the current of mutual intelligibility sometimes
passes by, and leaves an air-like sense of
disappointment.

Just then, the guests at Barwold came trooping
down. Lady Isherwood florid and magnificent ;
Frederica in white, graceful as a lily ; and the
other ladies in various degrees of splendour, till
the private omnibus which was to convey the
party to the ball promised to be well crammed.

To the astonishment of the Isherwoods, and
the happy consciousness of Frederica, when they
entered the reception-room at Atherton, they saw
Bernard Comyn standing a little way behind
Mrs. Welby and her daughter. Esther felt a
sickening sensation at her heart, but, beyond a
mere bow, he scarcely acknowledged her presence.
The warm hand-clasp and sympathetic smiles of
former meetings were quite wanting.

Why, Bernard ! " exclaimed Hermione, " I
did not expect to see you here."

He promised me ages ago that he would be at
my ball," said Miss Welby, " and when you told
me that he was not going to Barwold, I thought
it would be too deliciously cheeky to write and
convict him of a breach of his word. You see
he couldn't allow his honour to be dragged in the
dust, so he was obliged to make a martyr of
himself."

Miss Welby is right," said Bernard. *' I
never break a promise, or give rise to false
expectations, if I can help it. Miss Talmadge,
may I have the pleasure of the first waltz ? "

He went up to Frederica and wrote his name
upon her card for several dances, but made no
attempt to secure Esther. Presently Captain
Brand appropriated and led her away.

Who would have expected to see Lydyiard
here ? He tells me that he is staying at
Barwold."

He came unexpectedly yesterday evening."

I did not know that he was on such intimate
terms with the Isher woods. I must go and have
a talk to him presently. I have never seen him
since that miserable day when I parted from you
on the island. Poor Lydyiard ! — he was always
preaching prudence to me concerning a certain
little girl. I'll remind him of it by-and-by."

George put his arm round Esther's waist, and
whirled her into the circle of dancers. He was
at his best in a ball-room. Except at school,
and privately with Frederica in Miss Talmadge's
kitchen, Esther had never waltzed, and she was
too young not to feel a momentary exhilaration
which lent a radiance to her eyes, and a flush to
her cheek, that completely deceived Bernard ashe
looked on with Frederica upon his arm.

After the dance George led Esther into the
conservatory. Bernard and Frederica had preceded
them, and were standing together examining
a flowery pyramid. "That will be a
match," said George carelessly, as the couple
passed back into the dancing-room. She is a
very jolly girl, and I thought the first time I saw
you all here together that he was spoony upon
her."

Although she had in her heart voluntarily resigned
Bernard to Frederica, the glory of satisfaction
in her sacrifice was still far from Esther.
George's careless comment made her writhe as
though something sharp had struck her, and she
was almost ready to cry out, " How can I bear
it ? " as upon that evening when she had discovered
Frederica's secret. Her torture was not
diminished by the bright look which Frederica
threw back upon her, as she passed upon Bernard's
arm.

Let us sit down," said Esther, pointing to a
cushioned bench in a recess near them ; "I don't
want to go back to the ball-room just yet."

"Nor I," exclaimed George; "though, by
Jove ! I believe that I am engaged to Frederica
Talmadge for the next dance. I daresay she
won't mind if I keep her waiting a moment.
You're bosom friends, aren't you ? I used to be

fond of dancing once, and up to aDj amount of
fizz, but I suppose it is the result of falling in
love with an inexcitable sort of a woman, that I
had rather sit here and talk quietly than waltz.
Esther, I have been longing for this evening —
I made up my mind that I would get your
answer to-night. The suspense would have been
almost unbearable, if I had not felt nearly
certain of you since I saw you wearing my ring
at Grately. I have been very good, have I
not ? "

'' Yes : you have been very good ; but a man
should always be good to a woman."

Because she is the weaker vessel. By Jove !
I don't quite see that reasoning, when she won't
do what is best for her. I wish you were as
good to me, Mousie, as I want to be to you.
You'll give me a definite promise now — You'll
let me speak to your uncle," he continued,
seeing that she did not look up or reply. " Let
me tell him that we are engaged. It is so, dear
Esther, is it not ? "

*' If you wish it," said Esther slowly. " George,
I will try to please you, and to make you happy.
You are different from any other man to me ; but
it is right to tell you that I don't love you as
you love me. 1 don't feel now as I felt when
we were together upon the island."

''Tliat is because everything is changed between
us now to what it was upon the island,"
said George, with easy conviction. " Of course it
would not be natural for you to feel quite the
same. When we are married, and settled at
Grately, you will have everything your own
way, and will be as happy as the day is long.
It is a capital neighbourhood, and you need
never feel dull."

Poor Esther ! This was not the kind of reassurance
for which her soul was yearning.

I think," she said, " that I should like to sit
here by myself for a little while, if you don't
mind leaving me."

Must I go ? You are a little cruel still, Mousie ;
but I must not grumble now because you are
cold. I feel so happy now that it is all settled.
Dearest Esther, I wish you loved me as I love
you." He put his arm round her waist and
lifted her hand to his lips, kissing it passionately.


Esther drew back, shrinking from the caress
with a repugnance for which, at the moment, she
could not account.

Will you kiss me tomorrow, when we are
alone ? " said George, rising a little flushed.

I want you to be kind and patient with me
for a little while," said Esther ; " I will try to do

everything that you would like. There is the
music striking up ; oughtn't you to go ? "

George departed reluctantly. " 111 come back
as soon as it is over," he said.

In his elation, he confided to Frederica that
all was settled between himself and Esther, and
received as full a measure of assurance and congratulation
as was natural from a young female
confidante, who believed herself certain of her
friend's feelings. He was returning from the
tea-room to the conservatory to rejoin Esther,
when he met Lydyiard in the hall ; the two men
had not as yet interchanged greetings.

Hallo, old fellow," cried Brand, excited from
various causes. " Who would have dreamed of
seeing you here ? I fancied till this evening
that you were looking after your colonists on the
island, and shall expect to meet old Overstone
with his pamphlets on salt and immigration at the
next turning. How does the settlement get on ?
I have no end of things to say to you ; but I left
Esther in the conservatory a few moments ago,
and must go and find her."

'' Esther is in the ball-room dancing," said
Lydyiard. " She passed me just now."

Then come in here, and have a yarn, as our
Australians would say," said Brand, leading the
way to the empty billiard room, upon the other

side of the hall, and throwing himself upon one
of the raised benches. '' You are staying with
the Isherwoods. Did you ever see a girl so improved
as my sweet little Haidee ? I thought I
had forgotten her ; but by Jove ! when I saw her
again here, for the first time since wee had parted
upon the island, it was all up with me. Do you
remember how you used to rate me for making
love to her in the old days ? I suppose when I
tell you that it is all settled between us, and that
I mean to marry her, you will think me an ass
for taking a girl without a penny — when — I
don't mind telling you in confidence — I had the
chance of fifty thousand down, and as much to
follow."

I think that the man who is fortunate
enough to gain Esther's love ought to consider
himself favoured above his kind. Such a girl
will never want for suitors."

'' She is a beauty, and a pretty face plays the
very devil with a fellow like me. You always
had a great fancy for Esther, Lydyiard ; I never
could quite make it out. Of course she is in
love with me, though she is not quite so romantic
about it as she was upon the island. I was a
god to her then, but she is older now, and a girl
becomes less open about her feelings as she learns
more of the world."

And what does she say to your long silence ?
to the small account you made of her love when
she was apparently so much beneath you in
social position 1 "

I have explained that. She knows how I
was situated, and a sensible girl would see at
once that I was not to blame. If you come to
social position, Lydyiard, Esther's antecedents areas
shady as they could well be. There are not
many men who would go down on their knees to
the daughter of a felon. You must know Hagartt's
story. I always suspected that you had an inkling
of his former history. Fortunately people
about here either knew nothing about him or have
forgotten him ; but the fact remains the same. If
Esther were an heiress a man might be more
ready to overlook it, but I don't suppose she will
have a farthing from old Isherwood."

'' Probably not."

"The estate is heavily burdened through
Charles's extravagance, and they are retrenching
as far as they can. A provision for Esther would
naturally come out of that set aside for younger
children, and I believe that is all swallowed up.
Well, they won't expect me to do much in the
way of settlements — I will not deny that money
is an object to me. It was always intended
that I should marry my cousin Lina ; but when

Esther came on the scene again, all thoughts
of that kind went to the winds. Lina is an
uncommonly jolly, amusing girl ; and though she
is small, she is certainly very handsome ; but
there is something about Esther which makes her
more attractive than most women. I suppose it
is her unlikeness to them. There is something
spiritual — refined ; what do you call it ? about
her. I daresay most fellows would think me a
fool for chucking away a fortune, and a lively
and pretty wife, for a charm which I can't define ;
but I don't regret my choice in the least. There
aren't many men who could say that."

No," replied Lydyiard ; " perhaps not."

I suppose you have heard that my uncle
treated me infernally at the last. He took
offence about something he had heard, and kept
the bare letter of his promise in leaving me
Grately; but all his other money went to a
library, or something of the sort."

'* I thought the Grately property was worth
from three to four thousand a year."

"Yes; but what is that to keep up such a
place ? I think the county ought to subscribe a
handsome sum for its restoration — antiquarian
interest, and all that rot. They'll cry shame
upon me if I let Elizabeth's banqueting-hall
tumble down for want of tinkering up. It costs

money to live like one's equals in England, if
one means to enjoy oneself at all. A bachelor
without landed property can do as he likes, buta
place is the deuce for swallowing up one's
income. However, I suppose that a country
gentleman ought to marry ; and Esther will not
have extravagant tastes."

"No," replied Lydyiard. He seemed thoughtful,
and anxious to draw George out, before approaching
the subject that lay upon his mind.
George's eloquence seemed exhausted. After a
pause, Lydyiard continued : "I suppose that
you weighed the matter of marriage well before
deciding."

"I don't know about that," said George
lightly ; " when I take a fancy to a thing I
generally buy it, if it is to be had. That is
rather a coarse way of putting it, I suppose, but
it expresses what I mean. I saw Esther, and
fell in love with her, that is about the long and
short of it."

But you have taken other things into
consideration ; you have thought of the children
that may be born to you — of the taint which
Esther may have innocently inherited ? "

"Oh, as to that!" cried Brand, "that is your
political economist way of looking at it. I never
went in for that sort of thing. It is a far-fetched

idea of justice, I think, to make a girl responsible
for the sins of her ancestors. Esther is none the
worse individually because her father wrote my
uncle's name instead of his own."

'* George," said Lydyiard, " I should be false to
my deepest convictions of personal responsibility
and abstract moral right, if 1 did not warn you
to consider well the drawbacks of a marriage
with Esther. I should put the case in like
manner before any one who contemplated making
her his wife ; that is to say, if I were in a position
to speak to him upon the subject. We rationalists,
as we are called, look at such matters from a
scientific, not a sentimental, point of view. It is
a proved physiological fact that tendencies are
transmitted through the parents to succeeding
generations ; and if a man marries the daughter
of a lunatic or a diplomatic, he does so at
serious risk to his posterity. I have known men
who have carried their convictions upon this
point so far that they have refused, upon the
ground of heredity, to marry the daughter of a
felon, a divorce, or an illegitimate woman. The
latter taint implies on the female side — not
necessarily, but presumptively — a corresponding
tendency."

Esther is not illegitimate," exclaimed George.
If she were — what then ? "

VOL. III. c

I don't think as you do," replied Brand.
*' How many fellows marry women with taints of
that kind 1 I don't believe in all that scientific
twaddle. It is very well in theory — but men will
be men, and we must take the risk. The world
gets on very well as it is, and if one were always
studying questions of far-fetched morality there
would be no enjoyment in existence. If it were
so with Esther, I should only be paying a little
dearer for my pleasure. What do you mean by
such insinuations ? Do you know anything about
Esther's mother ? "

Brand," said Lydyiard, evading the direct
question, "you were right in saying that you put
the matter coarsely just now. You don't mind
paying dearly for your pleasure. A man has a
rio^ht to calculate the cost of a thing that he
desires ; but the question is not a purely selfish
one — there is a moral responsibility attaching toit.
Esther is not a horse, or a dog, or a slave.
She is a being as high as you, or higher in the
scale of creation than you are — to whom you owe
a duty apart from your own gratification. You
want to marry her. Your wish appears upon the
surface generous and disinterested ; but it occurs
to me, that if it be with you purely a consideration
of price, when you have tasted of your
pleasure, and perhaps satiated yourself with it.

you may feel that you have paid dearly for your
enjoyment. In that case, how would Esther
fare ? "

"If you mean that I should regret having
married her, and should ill-treat her in consequence,
you can hardly give me credit for being
a gentleman."

"There are different ways of ill-treating a
woman, just as there are many degrees of comparison
in the term * gentleman.' A so-called
gentleman does not beat his wife, or actively
ill-use her; but he may neglect her, he may
indirectly bring home to her the fact that she is
distasteful to him, an incubus of which he is
weary. There may be jarring, sullen compliance
with her requests, cold good-nights, indifferent
kisses. If the wife be sensitive and passionate
of nature, the husband may incur the terrible
responsibility of having driven her to sin, as
perhaps her mother was driven before her."

I wish that you would speak out," cried
Brand. " There is something behind your words.
Do you mean that Esther's mother was a — "

Stop ! " said Lydyiard. " You must not use
that term of reproach in connection with Esther's
mother in my hearing. I will tell you her
history ; but I understand that I am speaking to
a man of honour, and whatever influence my

c 2

information may have upon your conduct, I
rely upon your good faith that it shall not be
imparted to Esther or others."

"Very well' said Brand, "I give you my
word not to mention anything you say."

It is a painful subject to me ; I should have
hesitated to broach it, had I not felt the pressure
of responsibility. For Esther's sake, as well as
for your own, and for that of right, I will not
let you marry her, in the least degree in the dark
as to her antecedents. When you have heard
what I am going to say, the onus will have been
removed from my shoulders. You know the
story of Robert Isherwood's youth — that he was
disgraceful in almost all his relations of life, and
that he forged Lord Coniston's name, and was
transported to Australia. At that time he was
living in sin with the wife of another man, whom
he had taken from her home — and that woman
was Esther's mother."

'this then was the connection to which he
alluded in his letter."

I know nothing about the letter. Esther's
mother was extremely beautiful. She was sensitive,
enthusiastic, and of a wayward, passionate
nature. She was of French extraction, and had
been brought up by a maiden aunt, who, dying
intestate, left no provision for the girl. She was

at this time befriended by — the clergy man of
the parish — who laid her under some pecuniary
obligations. He was dishonourable enough to
urge these obligations in endeavouring to persuade
her to marry him. He was a man of
studious habits, and of repulsive personal appearance,
and it was not surprising that she looked
upon him rather as a jailor than a husband.
That jailor who preferred his own short-lived
gratification to her happiness was — myself."

'* You," exclaimed Brand, in astonishment.

'eyes; I induced Esther's mother, at the age
of seventeen, to marry me out of a mistaken
sense of gratitude. I never succeeded in gaining
a spark of her affection. My devotion at first
had only the effect of increasing her wretchedness
and discontent, and was succeeded by
coldness, estrangement, and, upon my part, absorption
in my books. It was during the
years following my marriage that I began to
question the authority of the Church, and that I
became sceptical of the superstitions I had
been preaching. Doubt, inquiry, scientific and
literary research engrossed me, and my wife and
I were practically separated when Eobert Isherwood
appeared in the scene. He was young,
handsome, artistic, and I suppose, poor woman,
craving as she must have been for emotional

excitement of some sort, that she fancied she had
found a congenial soul. They eloped; and it was
in pursuing the guilty pair that I met with the
accident which maimed me as you now see me.
Jealousy and resentment made me unwilling to
sue for a divorce, which in those days was more
difficult of attainment than now ; and they were
denied the poor satisfaction of marriage. After
my wife's desertion, I gave up the Church, in
which my views no longer permitted me to
remain, and went to live abroad. There I was
brought into contact with minds of a similar
bent to that which mine had taken. My habits
of life and thought changed entirely. From an
evangelical clergyman I became what is termed
a free-thinker. With the widening of my views
came the enlargement of my sympathies. As
my narrow, self-assertive dogmatism gave place
to an exacter apprehension of the sequence of
cause and effect, of good and evil resultant from
each other, there came to me as well, a more distinct
appreciation of human nature, a more active
interest in the higher phases of life, a levelling
of individual desire, and exaltation of idealized
humanity as the true object of worship. You
don't follow me, Brand. AVell, I realized that
in fettering a young fresh life for my selfish
pleasure I had committed a wrong against

society and against an individual which it was
out of my power to redress. Years after my
wife had left me I made an effort to discover
her whereabouts, and learned that Robert Isherwood
had been transported for forgery, and that
she, bearing an unborn child, had disappeared.
Further search seemed useless, and I tried to
escape from the thought of her fate, and to turn
my mind into scientific and benevolent channels ;
but all my life a sense of moral culpability has
embittered my plans for benefiting the race, and
has interfered with my self-satisfaction. You
were with me when upon Mundoolan Island I
came upon the traces of my wife. She had been
faithful to the man for whom she deserted me,
with a fidelity far surpassing that of many
virtuous wives, — but Esther, her child, was not
born in wedlock, and has legally no right to the
name she bears."

The Isherwoods are not aware of that," said
Brand.

No ; Sir Emilius takes Esther for granted as
his brother s legitimate daughter. And I do not
imagine that they have cared to make inquiries
about the antecedents of Esther's mother. The
girl herself is totally ignorant of what I have
told you, and I should be sorry indeed for it to
come to her knowledge."

Brand got up, and going to the table knocked
about the billiard balls for a moment.
i > " Well ! " said Lydyiard with impatience,
seeing that George appeared immersed in the
making of cannons.

Of course, it is very kind of you to have told
me the story. There is nothing I hate so much
as being taken in — but, you see, no one need
know it beyond ourselves ; and society is not
likely to ask for Mrs. Brand's baptismal register.
I mean to marry Esther."

'' You have quite made up your mind."

Confound it ! " cried George, missing a
cannon. '' My mind does not want such a lot
of making up, when I have set my heart upon
a thing."

You will not at any future time wound her
sensitiveness by holding up to her your disinterested
conduct."

Oh, hang it all ! a man does not want to be
cramming that sort of thing down his wife's
throat. Of course I shall behave like a gentleman
to her."

*' I hope that you may never regret having
married her, and that you may make her
happy."

'' I don't suppose that there is any doubt
about that," said George. *' And now I think

that I had better go back to her. She will be
wondering what has become of me."

The two men returned to the ball-room together.
Dancing was at its height, and the band
was plapng in that dreamy, bewildering way
that always imparts to a gay scene a suggestion
of unreality. Fair girls jostled each other in
the dance, and gold-laced, red-coated officers
vied in brilliancy with gorgeously attired county
matrons. Hot-house flowers bloomed in every
corner, and the parquet floor gave back the
glitter of lights and jewels. Mrs. Welby attitudinized
like a Sultana upon a raised couch at one
end of the room, and Lady Isherwood enthroned
by her side, simpering and fat, with a still peach-like
bloom upon her complexion, and dazzling
neck and arms, saw in the brilliant spectacle
below her a reflection of her owen period of belle-ship.


'they do this sort of thing very well, don't
they," said George, with just a tinge of discontent
in his tone.

Yes," replied Lydyiard, abstractedly.

I know who you are looking for," said Lina
Welby, tapping her cousin playfully on the arm
with her fan. " Mr. Lydyiard, isn't it too hard
upon me that I am not to be the cynosure of
every eye to-night ? Dearest boy, this is my

twenty-first birthday, and you have not paid me
one pretty little compliment — and I have had
such quantities of sweet, comforting speeches
showered upon me, that I feel as though I had
been morally shampooed. It is too awfully
delicious to be allowed to think oneself a person
of consequence for one evening of one's life ;
though, alas ! I shall be painfully alive to the
fact that I am a frump, and nothing but a frump,
tomorrow. There she is, you naughty boy.
Doesn't she look too sweet and romantic in her
white dress ? "

Esther passed in the whirl, dancing with one
of the officers of the garrison at AYoodchester,
and fully justifying Miss Welby's somewhat
gushing encomium. Flushed with exercise, and
with the excited resolution she had made, not tolet
Bernard see that she was wounded by his
coldness, she looked more than usually attractive.
She was certainly Lina's rival in the belleship of
the evening, and George, in his elation at her
success, gave out hints of proprietorship which
swelled the rumours already current in the room
of an engagement between them.

It is doubtful whether Miss Welby's enthusiasm
for Esther was as deeply rooted as she
wished people to believe, but she acted her part
well, and gave not the smallest ground for a

hint that she was wearing the willow. The
dowagers nodded their approval of Esther, and
delivered their verdict.

A very sweet-looking girl that Miss Isherwood,
and remarkably like one of the portraits at
Barwold." Lina was ready to whisper a slightly
garbled version of the island story — " a most
romantic affair that happened two or three years
before, when George was quartered in Australia ; "
and to hint that it was she who had brought
about the second meeting, and who rejoiced most
in the deponent.

Bernard was one of those who received her
version of the story, and went afterwards to
Frederica for its confirmation. He received it
fully.

Dear Esther," said Miss Talmadge, expansively,
"■ I think, I hope that it is all settled.
I am certain that he wishes it, and now she
will be happy. I don't know whether you
have felt as I have about Esther, that though
she is so sweet and dear, there has always
seemed something wanting to her perfect contentment."


During the evening, whenever Esther saw
Bernard's figure it appeared to be in close juxtaposition
with that of Frederica. They danced
together time after time, and Frederica looked

radiant, Esther felt sure that they were speaking
about her, for almost every time that she
glanced in that direction their eyes seemed to
meet hers. When Bernard was not dancing he
haunted the doorways, and she was perpetually
surprising his gaze, cold and disapproving. George
encompassed her with dovelike attentions, and
flattery seemed in the air around her ; but do
what she would to stifle her pain, it would not
be crushed.

Bernard was standing near their hostess when
the Isherwoods took their leave.

'' Bernard," exclaimed Lady Isherwood crossly,
*' what, has come over you ? I think that you
are extremely rude. You have taken no notice
of any of us except Frederica. Are you coming
to Barwold ? "

'' Not this time, Hermione."

Why not ? I have the Mclntyre girls, and
everything will be so flat tomorrow. Come
over in the afternoon, at all events, for some
music. Come to oblige me ; I want a young man
sadly."

No, Hermione ; I must go to London tomorrow."


Then all I can say is, you are most inconsiderate,
and your manners are excessively
bad. You are ready enough to come when it

suits your convenience. I believe that you are
looking after Lina Welby."

"Hermione, for mercy's sake don't bother
me any more. I can't come. There's an end of
it."

Miss AVelby squeezed Esther's hand rapturously
as she bade her good-night.

You nice, comforting person, I am coming
over soon to see you. George has given me the
tiniest hint of what is going to happen. It is all
settled, isn't it ? "

Yes, " replied Esther, hardly knowing what
she was saying. '* I suppose that it is all
settled."

On the following day George rode over to
Barwold, and had an interview with Sir Emilius,
satisfactory in all but a monetary sense, and
before evening a great portion of the county had
got wind of the arrangement. Bernard heard
it for certain at Atherton just before he took the
night train to London. Though it was only
what he had expected, he was bitter and indignant
at the thought of having been fooled, and
Lina's story of the island romance, as she called
it, only made him more resentful. It was plain
to him that the sympathy which he had fancied
had existed between himself and Esther had
been wrought out of his own imagination ; for,

granting that she had always cared for this
handsome, dissipated-looking young coxcomb,
whom Bernard had already mentally convicted
of coarseness, swagger, and incapability of interpreting
a high motive or intellectual aspiration,
what bond could there be between her and himself,
and what could that passionate handclasp
upon which he had built so much — those sudden
eye appeals and passing blushes — have meant
more than the pleasurable gratification of a
woman's vanity ?

Bernard, when he reached London, took a
freak of exercise and fencing, then of reading in
the British Museum, and finally shut himself up
in his chambers, and worked steadily at his book
Lydyiard, whom he consulted upon his affairs
literary, though not upon the state of his heart,
being pleased with his rough draft, and predicting
a future of healthful mental discipline.

Frederica went back to Momenta Terrace
shortly after the announcement of Estherss engagement.


'* So Esther is soinof to be married," was Miss
Taltnadge's comment upon the news Frederica
brought. " And to the nephew and heir of
Viscount Coniston, with whom I was on terms of
acquaintanceship — I may almost say intimacy —
during a winter spent in Rome with Lady Susan

Starkie. You might mention this, my love, in
writing to the Isherwoods. A pale-faced slip of
a girl without half your beauty, and none of
your advantages. Well, Providence ordains the
lot of each of us ; and the Glencairnes, my love,
have always been above the vulgar prejudice
in favour of matrimony. It is not always in
dinner company and county society that one
finds a congenial soul, as I, who was invariably
the cynosure of any circle in which I happened
to find myself, have reason in saying."

Miss Talmadge was in truth somewhat disappointed
that her niece had not achieved a
brilliant match, and this was her way of showing
it.

Frederica settled down calmly again to her
work, and painted diligently to make up for lost
time. She was more silent and thoughtful than
she had been, and her inner life seemed to have
received a new spring, which made itself evident
in lapses into reverie, and long hours spent at
the piano over the music she and Bernard had
been in the habit of playing together. The old
lady plied her with questions as to the Barwold
menage following all her movements with a
touching anxiety to discover whether the ways
of Magenta Terrace jarred upon nerves strung to
a more harmonious key — endeavouring to prove

the superiority of the Talmadges to the Sherwood
in a manner that was almost pathetic ;
but Frederica made no sign of discomfort, and
seemed too wrapt up in her own dreams to heed
externals.

Meanwhile it had been decided at Barwold
that Esther's wedding should not be delayed
longer than was necessary. Sir Emilius, delighted
at his niece's satisfactory settlement in
life, presented her with a good, round cheque for
her trousseau, and in the early spring Esther
and George Brand were married at Barwold, and
went to Rome for their honeymoon.

CHAPTER II.

THE HONEYMOON.

I CANNOT bear it," poor Esther was crying in
childish helplessness, as she sat alone in a dimly-lighted
room in Rome. She was dressed forgoing
to an assembly, more richly perhaps than
she had ever been in her life, and the sumptuousness
of her apparel gave a matronly character to
her figure, which the falling tears and drooping
curves of the mouth seemed to belie. ** He does
not really love me ; he only cares because he
thinks me pretty," Esther continued brokenly
to herself. "This was not what I thought it
would be. I hate — I loathe — I am degraded — "
She did not dare utter what it was that in her
estimation degraded her ; but her bosom heaved
and her tears fell thicker. This was their first
quarrel. There had been jarring, more or less
painful, but never open discord. He had never
left her in anger as he had done to-night.

A young wife's grief in a matter connected

VOL. III. D

with her marriage is only to be compared to the
hopeless, passionate sorrow of a child, the intensity
of whose young life seems out of all proportion
to the slow beat of the lives around it.
In both sufferers there is the same despairing
protest; the same inability to cope with an
uncomprehended phase of existence; the same
helplessness in battling with disappointment. It
is difficult for either the child or the woman to
realize that there may be an intermediate condition
between the extremes of happiness and of
misery. The future seems all dark and tear-blurred;
the cause of suffering disproportionate
to the pain ; and yet there are possible evils
resulting from disunion, too terrible to be understood
or defined, that cause the newly wedded
wife to shrink in vague terror from the life upon
which she has entered.

** I am sorry — I am sorry," thought poor
Esther feebly, and then — " If I knew whether I
had done anything wrong." And then came the
despairing protest : "If he and I were different
everything would be different too. It is because
I am what I am, that I have angered him ; and
it is because he is himself that I shrink from
him."

Marriage is, to a girl, a sudden plunge into a
phase of existence of which it has hitherto been

almost a shame to her to think. She finds herself
breathing an atmosphere that had before
represented to her an almost unknown condition
of being. Freedom of thought and action seem
to have been suddenly taken from her. The
veil which has shrouded her maiden life has
been violently drawn apart, and reserve struggles
against the baring of sentiments, that have till
now been sacred. She is in a condition of protest,
and the sacrifice of all her young instincts,
even when offered upon the altar of love, is entirely
repugnant to her; but when the presiding
divinity is a hard and ungracious Moloch, the
martyrdom becomes a veritable immolation of all
that is dearest.

It has been said, that in order to secure the
greatest amount possible of connubial bliss, a
young couple should start, as it were, from opposing
poles of thought and disposition, and by
gradually working nearer to each other, and rubbing
ofi* angles and excrescences, finally arrive
at that absolute harmony which is so desirable
in the married state. The proposition may, as
regards its presumptive verification, be fairly
stated, but it may be questioned whether, even
granting the certainty of a happy result, the after
felicity may not be counterbalanced by the
mental wear and tear, and emotional waste

D 2

involved in the intermediate process of arriving
at an understanding.

Esther and George were so far on their way to
prove the truth or error of this reasoning. They
were fashioned in totally dissimilar moulds, and
the current of their feelings and impulses ran in
opposite directions. From the commencement
they took quite different views of their mutual
relations. Esther had married George, actuated
more by a high sense of honour, and by that
purity of mind which makes fidelity to early
vows a religion with some women, than by any
impulse of love. She had told herself, in the conflict
that she had undergone before consenting to
be his wife, that a woman who passes readily from
the arms of one man to those of another, is a
despicable creature. The tenacity of her nature,
the few but strong impressions of her girlhood,
the keen gratitude for affection that had always
been a part of her character, and the appearance of
disinterestedness in George's wooing, all swayed
her towards him. And then, to counterbalance
her love for Bernard, there had been the impossibility
of union, which his opinions had seemed
to indicate ; the vague desire to emulate his
heroism. There was too the motive for renunciation
in her wish to promote Frederica's
happiness, and which contributed to impart all

the zest of leigh-souled sacrifice to her own
marriage.

She was yearning after a fuller life in which
she might devote herself definitely to another.
She was ready to prick herself with thorns, if
need be, so that she gained that higher goal.
She was willing to subject herself to any discipline
that might be made evident to her, which
should suppress her longing after the more complete
sympathy of Bernard's companionship, and
encourage into more healthy life the struggling
tenderness which was all that remained of her
island love for Gorse. She thought it would be
so easy to smile upon an adoring slave ; but her
slight experience of men had not taught her that
the ante-nuptial captive is often the post-nuptial
master ; and alas, poor Esther ! the tension of all
her finer feelings seemed to have electrified her
sensitive temperament into a peculiar liability to
suffer from the rubs and earrings and small dissonances,
that inevitably result from the union of
an ultra-refined nature with one of a somewhat
coarse mould.

George, upon his side, had no conception of
any more subtle duties appertaining to the
married state, than those implied by a settlement
in proportion to his means ; the provision of an
establishment — horses, carriages, and dinners —

with the minor details of which it was the wife's
business to concern herself ; surface consultation
of his companion's wishes ; readiness to act asher
escort to any places of interest or amusement
she might wish to visit — except churches, picture
galleries, and concerts of high class music,
which his soul abhorred — and a profusion of
endearments, such as in the early days of marriage
are presumably grateful to the wifely heart.
But when Esther found that her husband's
highest notions of companionship were limited
to vapid addresses, that betrayed every moment
an irritable and susceptible vanity, or at best
a shallow, self glorifying amiability; to kissings
and fondling of her cheeks and hair, and suchlike
amorous demonstrations, that from some inexplicable
cause were distasteful to her — she shrank
away from him, almost hating herself for so
shrinking, — and avoided his touch with a sickening
anticipation of the barren prospect that
future years held forth. She could not have told
accurately, what more than this lover's dalliance,
she needed to make her happy, or, if not happy
contented. But that there was a horrible yawning
vacuum, her whole being seemed keenly conscious,
and her soul was perpetually yearning
after the something it had not.

There appeared to be an utter dearth of

subjects of mutual sympathy between them.
George had no great acquaintance with literature,
and no feeling for art, or enthusiasm for the subjective
interests of life. The abstract side of existence,
which had a greater attraction for Esther
than common - place realities, was to George a
sealed book ; and whenever she tried to divert
conversation into channels that were congenial to
her, George looked bored and uncomprehending,
or ridiculed her fancies till they withered away.

Many of his peculiarities jarred upon her.
His want of tact, and his selfish indifference to
anything which did not directly bear upon himself,
galled her; and his purposeless lounging
was a perpetual source of irritation. His temper
was under no control ; and he was frequently
angry and blustering over matters which seemed
to Esther of supreme unimportance ; such as the
ill-cooking of a favourite dish, a delay upon a
railway journey, or the delinquencies of their
courier. Frequently by his whimsical petulance
and unreasonable irritation he marred what would
otherwise have been a day of enjoyment. Poor
Esther ! she was only learning the truth of the
saying, that a man is no hero to his valet-de-chambre
— and a wife being upon more familiar
terms than a body servant, it is obvious that the
aphorism, as applying to her, is doubly true.

They spent the first two months of their
married life in Eome, and were beginning to mix
in the English society there, when the misunderstanding
occurred which left Esther crying in
solitude in her bedroom ; and gave her, for the
first time since her marriage, a definite insight
into her feelings.

They were engaged to an evening party at
the house of one of George's English acquaintances,
and Esther had appeared at dinner in a
dress more than usually splendid and becoming.
George was bored at the end of a day marked
by no particular incident ; and his boredom often
took the form of abrupt transitions from fondness
to capricious complaint, which at least
afforded him the excitement of noting the effect
of his manner upon a susceptible companion.
Esther had seemed to him dreamy and unentertaining.
He had taken rather more wine at
dinner than was perhaps prudent ; and when he
re-entered the drawling-room, flushed and slightly
unsteady, and called her to his knee as
though she had been a spaniel, Esther recoiled
with a visible unwillingness that provoked his
rage.

Come here, Mousie," he said ; ^' you are
looking very handsome to-night" — and as he
spoke, he offered her a kiss.

Esther's whole being: revolted against the implied
command. She was herself shocked at the
wave of repulsion that passed over her. It was
impossible for her to be submissive and fawning
like an Eastern slave. She rose from her chair,
and gave herself a little involuntary shake, as
though her fetters galled her ; and without pausing
to think, swept by him into her own room
and locked ^ the door. When she was alone, she
trembled at what she had done, and at the comprehension
of herself which her action had brought
to her. Had it come to this, that she hated her
husband, and that she was panting to escape
from him ? Why otherwise should his entrance,
the very feeling of his breath upon her cheek, be
so repugnant to her ? Could any shock of
calamity be more appalling than this discovery,
that she disliked the man to whom she was
tied ? She felt a longing to annihilate the last
few moments, and to resume the conventional,
connubial attitude, which till now they had
maintained towards each other. She would do
anything, she thought, to repair her involuntary
act. Could she not creep up to him, and plead
indisposition, and entreat him to forgive her ?
He might be very angry, or he might be deeply
grieved ; under either circumstance, she felt
that it would be almost impossible to go and

face him of her own accord. When, after a
few moments, he turned the handle of the door
violently, and knocked loudly and imperatively,
some force stronger than herself seemed to glue
her to her chair, and hold her down from rising
to admit him.

*•' Esther," cried George in tones of stifled
anger, " open the door this instant ; let me in at
once, or by I'll break into the room."

Esther rose then and turned the key. George
entered in a storm of wrath. She had never
known him so furious. He seized her arm, and
shook her roughly, as she cowered trembling
against the wall. *' What did you mean ? " he
shouted angrily in her ear. 'ris it that you do
not like me to kiss you ? You whom I have
made what you are ! It is true ; you know
it. What were you when I first met you ? I
am always thinking of you, always trying to
please you ; but you have not a spark of
gratitude in your nature ; and when I ask you
for a kiss, you swerve away from me, and leave
the room as though I had insulted you. What
do you mean by it ? — do you hear ? "

Esther waited silent and unnerved till the
storm had a little subsided. '' Are you sorry ? "
asked George, more gently.

I am sorry," said Esther, in a childlike gasp.

I did not know what I was doing. Something
came over me. I don't know why I did it. I
suppose it is because we are different."

Yes ; we are different certainly," said George ;
'* and you must change to something very unlike
what you are at present if you want to live in
peace with me. I am a hot-tempered man, and
I hardly know what I am doing when I am in a
passion. You had better take care how you provoke
me, and don't give yourself d — d airs, and
pretend to look down upon me as though you
were a queen and I a chimney-sweep." He turned
back into the sitting-room. She was frightened ;
her arm tingled under her thin lace sleeve where
he had grasped it. She followed him ; but George
turned in the act of lighting a cigar. " No ; you
had better stay in your own room ; I don't want
your kisses now. You have repulsed me and
driven me from you ; I am going out."

We were to go to the Lawrence," said Esther.

^' D — the Lawrence ! " exclaimed George, and
taking up his hat departed, slamming the door
after him. It was then that Esther crept back
to her own room, and in an agony of remorse,
indignation, and despair cried : " I cannot bear
it." She waited a long time, fancying that
George might return, but he did not do so;
and when the clock struck half-past eleven, she

undressed herself, not wishing that her maid
should see her tear-stained face, and crept into bed.
In the early morning she awoke with that
crushed feeling which usually comes after emotion,
every word that George had uttered in
his wrath the previous evening so burned into
her memory that it seemed impossible to face
him under the calm light of another day without
an explanation, which would be intensely harrowing,
and might involve her in further trouble.
But he came into her room when she was
dressed, and asked her how she felt, without any
reference to their quarrel. There was a slight
blue bruise upon Esther's arm which she had
regarded upon discovering it with a mournful
shudder, and had hastily covered up again. It
was very slight ; but physical violence seems to a
woman the deepest mark of degradation — and
that her husband should have put it upon her
was to Esther a thing so terrible, that she felt it
impossible that they could ever be again on their
old footing. Something told her that George
would be stricken with remorse and horror at
the thought that he had in his paroxysm of rage
left a mark upon her skin, and would passionately
kiss, and almost weep over the discolouration
; but though the fact remained, and she
knew that she should never as Ions: as she lived

forget it, her pride made lier spare him and
herself the humiliation of his knowing it.

George had almost forgotten his anger. To do
him justice he never bore malice, and his passion,
as soon as it was spent, left no actively unpleasant
consequences. He kissed his wife, pinched
her ear, and asked her if she were cross with
him still. " I met Parker outside the hotel last
night," he continued, without waiting for an
answer from her, " and played loo with him
and two other fellows. I won fifty so vs. That
was a haul, eh old woman ? What should you
say if I were to give you that bracelet you liked
the other day at Liugi's ? "

Esther looked up bewildered. Had their
quarrel really passed from George's mind ? — or
was this his delicate way of expressing penitence ?
or was it that he attached no importance to
what weighed so deeply upon her ?

*' I know what you are thinking of," said
George, who had been watching her face. " You
feel that you don't deserve it after your tantrums
last night. I am not sure that you do either,
Mousie. Are you in a good temper this morning ?
because if not I will go away again till you are."

It was not I who was angry," said Esther ina
low voice.

You provoked me. I can't help losing my

temper ; and I hate rows — they make one deucedly
hot and uncomfortable. My liver is all out of
order. What right had you to turn your back
upon me as though I had been so much dirt ?
But I'll forgive you if you give me a kiss, and
promise to be a good child for the future."

*'I would rather you did not buy me the
bracelet," said Esther, in a distant tone.

'' Oh, very well ; I don't want to cram presents
down your throat. I thought that you'd like it,
and take it in good part, but I can find plenty of
things to spend fifty pounds upon." He went to
the window and whistled for a minute or two.
*' You had better write a note to Lady Lawrence
this morning and tell her you weren't well last
night. Do you hear, Esther ? "

Yes," replied Esther faintly. George turned
and saw that she was crying. "Mousie," he
exclaimed, quickly moved at the sight of her
tears, " what is the matter ? You shouldn't take
things to heart so. It is unkind of you to bear
malice because I got into a rage last night. I
did not mean to hurt your feelings ; you should
make allowances for my temper ; and you know
that it was partly your fault. When a fellow has
given his wife everything, and is always trying
to show her how fond he is of her, it is infernal
bad taste to grudge him a kiss. Come, let us

forget all about it, and do you try to be more
pleasant. We'll go out by-and-by and call at the
Lawrence's, that will be better than writing ; and
then we will go on to Liugi's and get the bracelet.
I am determined that you shall have it, if
it is only to show that you don't bear malice."

So the squall blew over. The husband and
wife went out, and George bought Esther the
bracelet, which made her shudder whenever she
wore it afterwards, as though a serpent had
clasped her arm.

The young couple lingered abroad all the
summer, till the harvest was almost over, and
the partridges at Grately nearly ready for their
fate. They did Italy and Switzerland, and returned
by way of the Rhine, having made a
tolerably exhaustive tour, and George at least
being ready to declare, with true insular prejudice,
that no foreign country surpassed old
England. Apart from domestic jars, Esther
enjoyed her wanderings. The excitement of
being whirled from one new scene to another
deadened individual yearnings, and private griefs
appeared less serious in the face of historical
calamities. But for the absence of sympathy
between herself and her husband, which everyday
made itself more apparent, Esther would
have been loth to return to England ; but as it

was, she lead a longing to see him established
again in his home, and a trust that his country-pursuits
would relieve her somewhat of the onus
of making life pleasant to him. A companion
inclined to boredom, and inclined also to resent
his boredom upon the individual nearest at hand,
involves at the best of times a certain amount
of mental anxiety. Brand, though to outward
appearance gay and good-natured, with a tendency
to skim the surface of life, and to ridicule
any one who in an inquiring mood attempted to
sound deeper, was, like many of his temperament,
frequently Wretched by reason of his lack of
inner resources, and absolutely dependent upon
the sauce of society for imparting a zest to
existence. He was decidedly coarse in his mental
tone, and inclined to personal braggadocio. He
had no discernment of motive or feeling in those
around him, and usually accepted things and
people at their lowest level. He was fond of the
good things of life, would have scouted the idea
of self-denial, and hated trouble and annoyance.
He had a strong sense of self-importance, the
keener in proportion to a lurking consciousness
of intellectual inferiority, and nothing made him
more angry than a suspicion of being despised.
He had a fund of generous impulse, and a susceptible
heart to troubles which were within the

range of his comprehension. No one would have
given a five pound note more readily to an
impecunious friend ; but at the same time no one
would have been less disturbed by the vague
consciousness — for with him it could have been
nothing deeper — of a wound inflicted by a
jarring allusion or gibing remark.

The close intimacy of early married life, mercilessly
revealed to Esther all the salient defects
of George's character, without allowing time far
domestic intimacy to soften down the prominences
that were displeasing, and to throw in
redeeming shadows and touches of amiability
that became afterwards apparent. She was not
in love with George, and could not blind herself
to his faults and weaknesses ; and her intense
nature, craving sustenance, turned back upon
itself in mournful discontent. She had every
material comfort which her social status implied,
and a handsome and, to all appearances, good-tempered
and devoted young husband. What else
could a wife desire ? But how many women
there are who in their first youth have looked
for a deeper source of satisfaction, and have
thought themselves defrauded of their just rights,
because the exact companionship they craved has
been denied them.

The return to Grately seemed to Esther to

VOL. III. E

herald in a new and more active phase of existence.
There was the excitement of forming
plans, of re-arranging furniture, of designing definite
occupations for the day, which should at
least colour life with the semblance of high purpose.
The old Lord's library opened out to hera
vast field of enjoyment, and the historical part
of the house promised ample food for her imagination,
and material for schemes of restoration
in the future. She thought to herself that, by-and-by,
when George was less crippled in his
resources than he seemed at present, and had
built the new pinery and the wing to the stables
about which he was always talking, she would
delight her uncle by calling his antiquarian
knowledge to her assistance, and together they
would bring back to Elizabeth's banqueting-hall,
and the historic gateway and staircase, some of
their pristine splendour.

Then, though it must be admitted that her
ideas were somewhat chaotic and unpractical, she
planned that Mr. Lydyiard should come and stay
at Grately, and should help her with his advice
and co-operation, to institute reading-rooms, and
perhaps courses of lectures, for the improvement
of the rural population — if only George, who
had no inclinations in the direction of general
benevolence, would leave her unfettered, and not

be impatient with her for wishing to spend his
income upon objects of which he could not seethe
utility, and which might threaten to interfere
with his personal amusement. Esther had but a
vague idea of the value of money, and did not
understand why interviews with his bailiff or
man of business should have the effect of depressing
and irritating George, and why he sometimes
made biting allusions — which she had not
as yet begun to take to herself — to the folly of
impecunious landowners who chose to marry
wives without fortunes. Whenever such remarks
caused Esther uneasiness, it was dispelled by a
launch into some personal extravagance upon
George's part, in which, had their resources been
narrow, she could not have imagined that he
would indulge.

How pleasant this is ! " said George, stretching
out his legs with satisfaction, as, on the second
evening after their return, and after a luxurious
little tête-à-tête dinner, he and Esther sat together
over a fire in the library which, till they
should have settled down somewhat in the house,
they had made their sitting-room. " There's no
place like home, after all. You don't mind smoking,
I suppose, Esther. As you don't seem inclined
to talk, hand me the cigarettes, like a good child.
I am glad we came back for the 1st. I don't

E 2

LIBRARY

universal OF illinois

suppose the shooting will be much this year, but
it gives me time to set the stable together. I

O CD CD

don't think that I could have stood much more
of that Continental mooning. You liked it,
didn't you?"

Yes," said Esther ; "I liked it very much."
*' Oh ! well, it might have been pleasant enough
to you. Women always take a kind of pride in
making: the o-rand tour — and in sentimentalizing
over churches and ruins — but for me, all I can
say is, that it was infernally dull." Brand's post-cranial
satisfaction was beginning to take the
form which Esther knew, of fault-finding as a
provocative of excitement. ^' Companionship is
everything — not that you weren't very pleasant,
dear. Now we must think of filling the house as
soon as it is in order. I feel as though I wanted a
little fillip, and some singing, and laughing, and
joking. I don't wish to hurt your feelings,
Esther, and you suit me very well — but there
are livelier women in the world than you, dear."
Esther flushed, but made no reply. She had
felt happier that evening than she had done since
her marriage. Her heart had expanded under
the influence of George's pleasure in finding
himself at home. She had been indulging in
woman-like dreams of creating her joy out of his
satisfaction ; for no wife who feels herself appreciated

can be really unhappy ; but his careless
speech seemed to drop a black veil over all her
smiling pictures of the future, and her half-formed
schemes sank into nothingness.

Why do you look' sad ? " asked George presently,
giving her ear a little pinch. " You can't
help not being brilliant. I suppose that if one's
wife is good to look at, one ought not to complain
that she is mavv^kish. If I had wished
for a talkative companion, I should have married
Lina Welby. We must ask Lina to come and
stay with us. She will bring a little life into
the house. Don't look gloomy, Esther. Want of
cheerfulness is your great fault. You should try
and cultivate a more light-hearted disposition.
I should be perfectly contented with you, if you
would laugh occasionally, and that is not much
to ask."

You did not think me stupid and depressing
before you married me," said Esther.

"No, dearest ; men. don't as a rule find their
wives stupid and depressing before they are their
wives. I don't complain that you are stupid ;
that is putting it too strongly ; T only want
you to infuse a little vivacity into your manner.
What do you say to driving over to Atherton
tomorrow? I should like to find out when the
old boy begins his shooting. Is there any one

you can think of besides the Welbys whom we
might ask for the first week ? There is that
young friend of yours, the girl who played — ''

I am certain that Frederica could not come
said Esther. " I had a letter from her the other
day. She is working hard at the School, and
has an order for a portrait."

Then there's Comyn. He was not a bad sort
of fellow, though he had rather a sneering way
with him which was objectionable. But he is a
relation of yours, and as he can't afford to shoot
on his own account, I dare say that he will be
glad of the chance of sport at another man's
expense. Shall I write to him, or will you ?"

'' He can always shoot at Barwold," replied
Esther; " and he is Lady Isherwood's cousin,
and no relation of mine. Do not ask him here ;
he would not come."

^' Why should he object to come?" asked
Brand, in a surprised voice. " I thought he was
sweet upon your friend, Miss Talmadge. I
believe now that it was you. But you liked me
best ; wasn't that it ? "

Esther moved abruptly to the window. The
shutters were not closed, though there was a fire
in the room.

"You liked me best,'^ repeated George, with
light complacency. . He came to her side as she

was straining with her eyes into the night, and
threw his arm round her waist. It was all that
Esther could do to control the shuddering which
seized her.

'' Why don't you shut the window if you are
cold ? " asked George, closing the sash with his
other hand. Esther had thrown it open with a
stifled loDging for air and space. '' I did not
think that Corny n would have been so sentimental,"
continued George ; " but if you think
he would dislike coming here, we won't ask him.
Of course, you liked me best. It would be strange
if you had not done so, eh, Mousie ? You would
have been a greater fool than I take you to be, if
you had preferred him. See what I have given
you. People say that this is the finest place in
the county ; there would be none to come up to it
if I could afford to keep it up in the way I should
like. What has Bernard Comyn ?— a paltry eight
or nine hundred a year."

"Oh, pray, dont speak in that way," cried
Esther, desperately. " What is the use of talking
like that ? What does it matter ? What does
money matter ? "

It matters a great deal," said George ; *' but
you take things so deucedly coolly — just as though
you had been born a millionnaire. A wife is an
expensive luxury, as I have found out. What do

you suppose our honeymoon trip cost us ? You
must be economical in your housekeeping, Esther.
I begin to think that Lina was right, and that we
shall find my income won't go very far here."

When George had completed his household
arrangements, had replenished his stud for the
winter's hunting, and had paid some outstanding
debts, he began to feel more forcibly than ever
the truth of Lina Welby's caution. His income
did not go far in the maintenance of such an
establishment as that of Grately, and in the satisfaction
of its master s requirements, when it was
an understood thing that George was not to be
stinted in one of the luxuries that had appertained
to his bachelorhood, or denied anything
which he coveted. Had not the house been
filled by relays of visitors, George would have
been seriously perplexed by the difficulties that he
met with, in the adjustment of his desires to his
means ; but, as it was, he had very little time
for reflection or irritation.

Sir Emilius and Lady Isherwood came to
Grately for a week at the commencement of the
shooting season. The Welbys were also of the
party. Lina was in high spirits after a brilliant
campaign in London, and piqued George somewhat
by the small effect his marriage appeared
to have had upon her gaiety. She looked

prettier than ever upon the evening of their
arrival, and he felt inclined inwardly to reverse
his verdict upon the inferiority of pocket Senses.
She wore a filmy white gown with crimson
flowers in her breast, which set off her piquant
little face. George looked at her admiringly,
and turned with a qualm of dissatisfaction towards
his own young wife, who was sitting between
Lady Isherwood and Mrs. Welby, listening, in
her most dreamy fashion, to what they were
saying. Lina beckoned him across the room,
and made a place for him by her side.

You are looking very well, Lina," said
George ; " I never saw you in better form."

*' I am in — very excellent form. Dear boy, I
am not a racehorse. The truth is, I had a very
jolly time in London this year."

No end of admirers, I suppose."

Oh, my dear boy, that goes without saying.
Seriously, I am thinking of following your
example. It isn't nice to be left out in the cold ;
is it, George ? "

I think that a fellow often feels himself out
in the cold when he is married," said George,
discontentedly.

He ought to be as warm as a young turtledove
tucked under its mother's wing ; but I want
to know what is the matter with you. You look

as disconsolate as though all earthly joys had
departed from you. Surely this is not the result
I am to expect from matrimony. Are you bored
with me ? "

'' No," answered George, with a sickly smile.

Has Esther, sweet woman, been scolding
you ? "

"No."

"Dearest boy, is your liver out of order ? "

I don't know ; I daresay it is. The truth is,
Lina, I am utterly wretched."

Gracious ! This is nice talk for a young
husband ; but it's your internal economy. I
know all about it. Darling boy, take comfort.
You men are all the same ; old Jane Petit — one of
my old women, you know — said to me yesterday
' I'm right down thankful you've come, Miss
Lina, to cheer John up a bit, for his liver's that
bad he don't give me no peace.' You are put outwith
the world in general, George ; and you are
cross with me. You would like to see me pale
and disconsolate, with a willow garland round my
head, instead of these too delicious red things.
Isn't it so now ? "

Well, when a fellow has liked a girl tremendously,
it is hard upon him when he sees that
she does not care two straws for him."
- "I care a great deal more than two straws

about you ; I always did — but you liked some
-one else better. Merciful Providence ! " as Dr.
Lightner says, '' far be it from me to quarrel
with Thy decrees. Did I not tell you last time
J was here that my destiny lay in the Church ? "

*^ You don't mean to insinuate that you have
been caught by a parson ? "

That isn't a nice way of putting it. You
should at least give me the credit of catching the
parson."

'* Some beastly High Church curate that you
have been making a fool of."

'^ No, dear boy ; nothing short of lawn sleeves.
- *you don't really mean it, Lina," said George,
'excitedly.

< " Hush;! Esther is looking towards us. You
must not make your wife jealous."

'' I wish that she would be jealous sometimes.
-It would at least vary matrimonial monotony."

Sweet dreamy child ! I wish I did not admire
hei* so awfully. I am always longing to be like
her She is coming this way. I know what she
wants; it is not to scold you, George. I promised
to sing when the men came in. Yes, you
nice comforting person, I'll do anything to amuse
you'; I know what you have been going through.
Now, dearest Esther, I must really tell you and
dear Lady Isherwood of a delightful discovery I

made in London. At Parkins and Motto's, dear
Lady Isherwood, such a charming book for housekeeping
accounts — with a suitable text for each
article of domestic consumption. What a proof
of practical Christianity to have compiled such a
work ! "

George burst out laughing at Miss Welby's
mimicry of her mother, and Lina sat down to the
piano and sang some sparkling airs out of a new
comic opera that had appeared while the Brands
were abroad. Esther left them with the conviction
that they would find most amusement ina
tete-tete, and George remained by Lina's
side till the party broke up. They talked animatedly
the whole evening ; she running her
fingers over the keys while she looked !archly into
his face, and chattered in her rippling staccato
that always had the effect of amusing him.

To do Lina justice she never. meant to be ill-natured
; and though admiration was food and
drink to her, she would not have indulged her
appetite in any particular direction had it been
forcibly represented to her that thereby she made
a brother to offend, or caused a sister pain ; but it
was her way to skim lightly the froth of emotion
and there really was a Bishop in the question.

CHAPTER III.

DISSATISFACTION.

During the week that the Welbys spent at
Grately, George sought Lina's society with an
eagerness that he had never shown in the days
when it had been a matter of course that he
should pay her attention. She imparted a zest
to her companionship by alternately teasing
piquing, and flattering him. by a more or less
jesting avowal of preference, and was in every
respect a marked contrast to his wife, whom,
much as he admired her, he occasionally found
insipid. Nice titillation of his faculties of enjoyment
was somewhat of a necessity to George,
and apart from the interest of conjugal fellowship,
the greatest excitement to be derived from
intercourse with Esther was in playing upon her
sensibilities, pulling, as it were, the strings of her
emotions for his entertainment, and watching,
with the rough amusement of a school-boy, the
effect of a tactless observation or jarring allusion

upon her sensitive temperament. It was like
the perverse pleasure which a child finds in
running his fingers over the keys of a finely
tuned piano ; but when the performer has no ear
to distinguish harmony from discord, that enjoyment
soon palls.

Esther had no objective powers of pleasing.
She was like a responsive instrument, which is
entirely dependent upon the hand that touches it.
With Lina "Welby the case was different. She
had the knack of individualizing outside things,
and was always able to flavour commonplace conversation
with a dash of originality or a spice of
comicality, and to amuse her hearers with a ready
flow of talk, which though neither piquant nor
brilliant in itself, sounded so from her rosy hips.

It must not be supposed that George's enthusiasm
for Esther had dwindled into indifference
already. He still admired her above all other
women ; and if his passion had cooled slightly, it
had given place to a tenderness which might
in time develop into a calm, reliable affection ;
but they had neither of them arrived anywhere
near the point of mutual understanding. Her
cold purity rebuffed his warmth, and it was a
source of dissatisfaction to him that she took no
pains to trick herself in smiles, or make herself
alluring to him ; nor did she, in his estimation,

show that proper appreciation of himself and of
the advantages he had bestowed upon her, which
he considered becoming in the wife to whom he
had been so generous.

There were other things, too, in his married life
that galled him. Money was not so plentiful
with him as it had been in his bachelor days.
There had been his settlement upon Esther, and
the house had been partially refurnished, for the
old Lord had spent the latter part of his life in
four rooms, and there were alterations in the
stables necessary according to Brand's advanced
ideas of luxury. When the bailiff of the estate
eyed disapprovingly the home improvements,
and the increased stud, and talked grimly of
farms thrown up, of land that needed to be
drained, and of repairs to outlying properties, for
which dissatisfied tenants were clamouring, and
when the consideration of scanty harvests aud
agricultural depression was urged upon him by this
solicitor as a curb to extravagance, George felt
inclined to blame Esther for the crippling of his
resources, and more than once caught himself reflecting
that had he done what had been obviously
expected of him, and married his cousin Lina,
money embarrassments need not have disturbed
the luxurious ease in which he wished to lap himself.
Then, too, it vexed him that the society of

Woodfordshire did not make so much of him as
when he had been single and a possible suitor for
her daughters ; and he began to ask himself a little
discontentedly whether he had not after all paid
too dearly for the possession he had at one time
coveted so ardently. George was one of those
men between whose teeth the apples crumble
quickly into ashes, and to whom a good relinquished
becomes, from the moment of its abandonment,
the most desirable thing in the universe.
When Mr. Thompson his lawyer, a privileged
old friend of the family, said to him after a
Ions and somewhat disheartening: discussion
of his affairs, " It is a pity, sir, that you did
not take money a little into consideration when
you married," George, though he silenced with
apparent displeasure any disparaging allusion
to. his choice, soliloquized afterwards regretfully
"I believe that Thompson is right, and that I
'have been a fool. One woman is as good as
another after six months of matrimony."

George did not possess the amiable faculty of
concealing his thoughts, or stifling: his regrets in
his own bosom. They showed themselves in a
hundred different ways ; and though he never expressed
open dissatisfaction — when he was alone
with Lina, it clothed itself in vague confidences
sufficiently explicit to tickle her vanity, and

crime her the clue to his thoughts, but not definite
enough to require explanation, rebuke, or avoidance
of ttte-a-tttrs.

The ordinary course of young ladyhood was
monotonous, and needed a fillip. Lina's London
season had been exciting, and country - house
visiting later on had resulted in the captivation
of the lately installed Bishop of Woodchester.
But reaction had set in. His new duties had called
the Bishop to active employment in his diocese,
just when affairs were approaching a climax,
and life was flat enough to require stimulation
of the kind produced by a cousinly flirtation,
which was not likely to have detrimental consequences.
Lina only wanted to amuse herself;
she meant no harm, and would have been horrified
at the suggestion of treachery to Esther.

The partridges had a rest for a little while
after the Welbys' departure, and Esther and
George were for a short time alone at Grately.
The first two evenings of their tête-à-tête George
came down in slippers, stretched himself upon the
sofa after dinner, fondled his wife, aud declared
that nothing was wanting to complete his happiness.
There was a conscious pricking at his
heart when he thought of his late attentions and
confidences to Lina, and he was just in the
mood for half-confession and endearment.

VOL. III. F

After all, Mousie, a man ought not to regret
being married' he said, complacently stroking
Esther's hand as she sat near him in the library.
It is uncommonly jolly getting back to this
room, and out of our stiff company ways ; I am
not at all sure that we are not happier and more
comfortable alone. What do you think ? "

'' I should be quite happy, George," said
Esther — upon whom her husband's speech, as
implying former doubt upon the subject, had
grated more than he was aware — '' if I thought
that you were always contented with me."

Oh ! I can put up with you very well,"
replied George, in a jocose manner that was
meant to be flattering. " You do me very nicely,
my dear ; and I thought, considering all things,
that you made a very good hostess; but you
must be a little more lively in society. Let us
try to be sufficient to each other. There is no
doubt a man gives up a good deal when he
marries ; but there is no reason why a wife
should not indemnify him for the loss of bachelor
amusements. Now, if I had only had myself to
think of, I should probably have run up to town
this afternoon, and should be dining with some
fellows at the Club, and doing a theatre afterwards.
They are putting on all the new pieces
at this time of year."

I wish that you had not thought of mc,"
said Esther ; " I should not have minded in the
least being alone."

*' Another time you might come up with me,
or stay at Barwold for a night or two ; but I could
not have gone to-day. Thompson has sent mea
message that he wants to see me tomorrow
about some confounded business. I suppose it
will be the old story — retrenchment I wish,
Esther, that to your other charms you could have
added that of a fortune."

You knew that I had nothing when you
married me," said Esther coldly.

Of course, dear, it is not your fault. I'm not
complaining. No," he went on with virtuous-resolution
; "I mean to settle down into a
domestic character, and to find my happiness
in the society of my wife. But somehow," he
added, with reflective candour, '' we never seem
to have much to say to each other. Now I can
rattle on with Lina by the hour together."

It was very true. They never had much to
say to each other. They had not been married
long enough for their minds to have been
brought into approximation by external and
domestic interests, and upon abstract subjects
they had absolutely no meeting ground. It is
from this imperfect assimilation of tastes and

F 2

associations that the trials of early married life
usually arise. If the first five years pass without
open rupture disunion seldom occurs later.
Children are born and grow up, binding parents
into a closer accord. Domestic and social cares
promote a communion of thought which at first
appeared impossible. But the young wife who
has just become conscious of the blankness of
spiritual intercourse between her husband and
herself, finds it difficult to see the future in
hopeful colours.

Esther tried to answer George cheerfully, but
there was a sense of effort, of acting up to a
part, which struck like a chill at her heart. It
was not that she felt speech necessary to mutual
understanding, for how often had silence seemed
to her more eloquent than words ! When she and
Bernard had sat together in the dusk, verbal
intercourse had not been needed to assure them
of reciprocal joy in each other s society. As she
sat now on a low stool by George's sofa with her
hand in his, the question rose in her mind of
how it would have been with her had Bernard
occupied her husband's place. But a startling
sense of moral guiltiness followed upon the
thought, and she cast it from her as far as
she was able. " George," she exclaimed, " why
should we have little to say to each other ?

There must be a great deal to think of in the
management of an estate, and though I am very
ignorant I would try to help you, if you would
let me. I have been thinking — wishing to plan
some new cottages — they are wanted, I know, very
badly. Everything that interested you should
interest me too, even if it were only the shooting
and hunting. I would try to care for all your
amusements. But there are other things. I
drove through Degley the other day" — Degley
was a small village partly belonging to George,
which lay on the outskirts of the Grate estate
" and everything looked so wretched and
poverty-stricken. I should like to go among the
poor people and do them good. We ought not
to live entirely to ourselves or to society, and I
am sure there is no lack of work here."

Degley is a notoriously immoral place," said
George, " and it is not fit for you to go about
there. Ask Eyre about the poor people. They are
all in the parson's line, but not much in mine.
There is always enough to do in the management
of an estate to make both ends meet, and to keep
the tenants from clamouring: for things one can't
give them. It is all a confounded bore. There'll
be the game to get up, for the preserves have
been going to the devil, and Gardiner says it is
because old Welby makes such a • row if there

are not foxes. The two things can be managed,
I am certain, if the keeper will take the trouble.
I wish, Esther, that you would enter the number
of game that has been shot. If you want something
to do you might do that ; the lists are in
my notebook in the smoking-room. I forgot
to put down yesterday's bag. Fifteen brace of
partridges and twelve hares ; can you remember
that ? No, don't go ; it will do by-and-by."

George closed his eyes, and presently there
was a gentle snore which told Esther that he

o

was asleep. She took up a novel and began to
read, but her mind would not glide with the book,
and she fell to thinking instead. To-morrow she
would go to Degley, and visit some of the cottages.
There must be a means of escape from the caged
feeling, which, as she sat by her sleeping husband,
seemed to creep over her and stultify all her
energies. Could she never get away from this
cramping personality ? There was a bald hiatus
in the inner lives of them both. She did not
satisfy George — she could see it in his manner-every
one of his words and gestures betrayed to
her quickened perception a discontent with his
marriage, of which he himself seemed barely
conscious. If he were disappointed iu her, where
then lay her motive for endeavour ? Her married
life without love was nothing but a degrading

prostitution from which she could not escape.
She was eating of his food, living at his expense,
clothed in garments for which he paid. It was
impossible for her to reimburse him — not even in
the way for which he had bargained. She could
not amuse him, or make life enjoyable to him.
She must always be a drag upon his pleasures.
There must, till her life's end, remain the consciousness
of debt and dependence, against which
all her womanhood rose in revolt.

It seemed to Esther that she had been stranded
helpless upon a foreign shore. Marriage was not
what she had expected. Its higher meaning had
been crushed under the weight of material obligations
that were hateful to her. It was all distasteful
— lowering. Every day she laid down her
best and purest instincts to be trampled on by a
pleasant, practical epicurism.

As she looked at her husband's handsome,
sensuous face, with its smiling lips, and nostrils
dilated in slumber, she felt herself inwardly
recoiling from him. The book upon her lap
dropped on to the floor. Just then the butler
entered with his tray and George awoke, stirred,
and stared a little crossly around him as he sweetened
his coffee, and poured into it the liqueur
glass of brandy that the man handed him.

I'll drink the lighter claret another evening,

Curtis," said George. " Why did you let me fall
asleep ? " he said petulantly to Esther, when the
butler had left the room. " I hate going to
sleep after dinner ; it makes one so heavy and
stupid. You should have talked to me, and kept
me awake. That is because we are alone, and
there is no music or talking to stir one up. I wish
you were anything of a hand at billiards, Esther,
that would be something. Let us have old Erne
tomorrow evening ; he isn't lively, but at all
events he can play ecarie. Hand me over the
Field, like a good child ; perhaps that will help
me to keep awake."

Mr. Eyre, the clergyman of the parish, dined
with them the following evening, and he and
George played ecarte, while Esther stitched at
her embroidery, and mentally planned the rebuilding
of some cottages upon the estate, the
dilapidation and wretched accommodation of
which had troubled her that day. She had gone
to Degley, as she had proposed, to make acquaintance
with some of the poor people, and had been
shocked at finding a father and mother and grownup
sons and daughters sleeping together in one
small chamber ; still more shocked to discover that
such breaches of decorum, and worse breaches of
morality, were a common thing in the village,
where the cottages were all tumbling down, and

let easily on account of the lowness of their
rent.

This immorality of which George had spoken
so lightly, might surely be laid to their account
if they suffered the present state of things to
continue. Esther, as she sat silently stitching,
worked herself up into a fervour about the duties
of landlords towards their poorer tenants.

George must pull down these cottages and
build others, she said to herself ; no matter what
luxury they denied themselves it was clearly
incumbent upon them to do something for the
people at Degley. She had no opportunity of
speaking to her husband till the following morning,
and then she attacked him with an ill-judged
enthusiasm.

And where is the money to spring from ? "
asked George, when she had excitedly unfolded
her scheme. *' Have you a private fund of your
own that you can draw upon for these good
works ? "

Esther flushed. *you know that I have no
money ; but I thought that you would see at once
how desirable it is that these poor people should
be better housed."

Not I," answered George ; " they like pigging
it. Degley has always been an ill-favoured place,
and why should I do what my uncle, who was

ten times richer than I am, did not think necessary
? I have enough to spend my income upon,
without building new cottages at your pleasure
for a thankless set of paupers and poachers."

Oh, George, they are not all like that. I
went into one house yesterday, and the old
mother talked to me with tears about the state of
things. Her daughter had had a child ; it is too
dreadful to think of. I am told that immorality is
quite common ; and it is because they are huddled
up together in that way. Surely we must be
in part to blame for these people's wickedness."

George laughed a little coarsely. "You women
always take the sentimental view of what
you call immorality. The lower classes think
nothing of that sort of thing ; and the old woman
would probably have introduced you to her
grandchild without a blush if you had not put
notions into her head."

Will you go to Degley yourself, George, and
see how things are ? "

Not I — I should be mobbed. The people can
go on pigging it. Carter (the bailiff) spoke tome
about the place the other day, and I told him
it might go to the deuce — as far as building was
concerned. You had better not visit Degley
again. Everything goes wrong with me," continued
George discontentedly. '' Wills has sent

in this morning to say that the grey horse I gave
two hundred guineas for the other day has strained
its sinews, and Thompson has written to me
about the overdrawing of my account ; but these
things don't matter to you. You think more of
a two-penny half-penny cottage than of my
embarrassments.

"That is unjust," said Esther, with warmth.
You do not tell me of your embarrassments.
You set me apart when I wish to be near you
and to help you. I will give up anything or do
anything you wish ; but you have bought so
many horses lately that I could not think you
were really in want of money."

You would like me to be mounted like a
beggar," said George, with childish unreasonableness.


Esther waited till he had finished grumbling,
and then continued : "I told some of the people
I went to see yesterday, that I would speak to you.
Their name is Sharpe, and the mother is bedridden
; there is a large family. If you did not
do anything for the rest, perhaps you could give
them a better cottage."

Send them soup and blankets, if you like, or
let them go to the parish. The workhouse is
the best place for bed-ridden women. I shall
certainly not give them a better cottage for

nothing. If they want one, let them pay the
rent of one."

The father has been out of work for sometime,"
pleaded Esther, 'rand the sons are mere
labourers. They say they cannot pay more. I
promised to try and do something. I cannot go
near them again unless I have good news for
them. Could we not lower the rent of one of
the better cottages ? "

The whole village would complain, and I
should be obliged to do the same for all. I
suppose you don't want me to suffer."

We need not spend so much, George. Let us
do with a hunter or even a servant less."

Don't talk rot," said George. *' I am not
going to reduce my establishment, or appear
shabbily in the hunting field, for the sake of
sentimental humbug. I tell you I can't do anything
on the estate now. I am pushed for
money as it is ; and just when it is important
that I should make a good impression in the
county It is always at first that one takes up
one's standing, and the shabby way my uncle
treated me set all the people talking. A little
show and entertaining goes a long way. By
Jove ! if I had known the expenditure that
marriage would involve I would have taken
care that I did not choose a pauper."

It is unfortunate," said Esther, deeply hurt,
that you did not think of that a year ago."

"There is no use in thinking of it now," said
George, "unless you can save me expense,
instead of adding to it. I have only myself to
blame. As I was truly told, ' A man may sometimes
find that he has paid too dearly for a thing
he has fancied.' "

Esther's heart swelled with resentment. With
whom had he dared to discuss her in such coarse
terms ? Did he mean that he had " fancied " her,
had bought her, and now felt that he had paid
too dearly for his possession ? Had he looked
upon her as a slave exhibited in the market-place
for him to take or leave as he thought fit ? All
the outraged pride of her womanhood rose up
against him in the keenest hatred and repulsion.
She looked at him for a moment as though she
could have struck him, and then left him, hurrying
to her boudoir and locking: the door behind
her.

George felt some qualms of compunction
when he saw how deeply his words had wounded
Esther. They had fallen from him unawares,
and the coarse reasoning had been so patent to
him that he had not calculated the effect it
would have upon her. He comforted himself,
however, with the reflection that the hurt could

only be skin-deep, that a few tender words would
heal it, and that in the abstract, it did people
good to be "taken down." This levelling view
of the outer world, with himself as master paramount
of his immediate circle, was characteristic
of George's idiosyncrasy. Esther, he reasoned,
saw things from too sentimental a standpoint ; a
little dose of actuality would bring life before her
into a practical focus. There was a lurking
feeling that she despised him, which kindled
animosity in George's mind, and made him glad
that she should be humbled. She never seemed
to realize sufficiently all that he had done for her in
marrying her, or to feel that it was her duty to be
grateful and submissive to him as her benefactor.

o

Why, it was only the other day that she had been
living upon an uncivilized island, obliged to do
the most menial work, and subject to the blows and
caprices of a drunken father. That had not been
a school to inculcate ultra-refinement of feeling.
It was characteristic of George, that by a strange
mental perversion of the order of events, he had
brought himself to believe that Esther owed her
original elevation in the social scale entirely to his
agency, whereas he had in fact had nothing to do
with it. It was ridiculous, he said to himself, for
Esther to make a fuss about the Degley cottages;
but as for these people in whom she was interested,

he would find out who they were, and if it
were merely a matter of five pounds or so, they
should have a better domicile. Innovations
which trenched upon his personal expenditure
must be checked, but his impulses were, on the
whole, charitable.

He was called out just then to speak to his
bailiff", and while the matter was in his mind he
bade the man inquire into it, and do what was
desirable — thinking to himself that when Esther
should see that he had done what she wished,
she would be properly struck by his disinterested
generosity. Carter was, however, against
the whole thing ; found out that the man was
a poacher ; and did not act upon his master's
suggestion, ready with a string of reasons, in the
event of questions being asked. George, having,
as he thought, settled the question in this lordly,
off-hand way, thought no more about the matter,
or if he did, suffered the good intention to do
duty for a charitable action.

Esther knowing nothing of what had passed
through his mind, avoided Degley, and made no
further allusion to the subject. The individual
wound had swallowed up the impersonal interest.
George had hurt her in her tenderest point, and
the sore, like that first bruise, rankled for Ion or.
Her passion cooled, but left behind it a despairing

bitterness. She fancied that she had at last made
herself certain that her husband regretted deeply
having married her, and she settled despondingly
in her mind that there was nothing now but for
them to drift further apart till their union became
but a name. What hope was there that
the future would bring them nearer to each
other ? She would do her duty as his wife, but
all joy in that duty must go from her. The iron
had entered into her soul.

Poor Esther had none of that analytical faculty
which teaches us to accept the world — apart from
our individual valuation — at its best worth. She
could not suppress her own consciousness, and
take up the threads of existence at the point
where they became woven into the lives of
others. Her sensibilities were pent up in a well
of egotism. She could not turn her mistaken
marriage into a motive force, which should divert
her sympathies and interests, and send them
flowing into the wide stream of humanity. We
can none of us teach; our best efforts are but
faint cries from out of our shallow experiences,
as we mingle them with the experience of
others, but it is in the sharing of pain that our
deepest influence is found. Esther might, years
later, appreciate this philosophy, but now she
seemed too weighed down by her own struggling

individuality to find any satisfaction in the contemplation
of life from an impersonal standpoint.
Her marriage had upon her the effect of a slow
moral suicide. Balzac has written : " Les drames
de la vie ne sont pas dans les circonstances ; ils
sont dans les sentiments ; ils sont dans le coeur'
The deepest tragedies of life lie beneath its
surface, and the gradual extinction of hope, and
deadening of spiritual interest and activity, is
frequently sadder to contemplate than the violent
sundering of the links of happiness by some
unforeseen and imperious calamity.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER IV.

Bernard CALLS AT MAGEXTA TERRACE.

Bernard was more fortunate than Esther,
in that he had a definite occupation to fill
his thoughts and absorb his enemies. Immediately
after his disappointment he had resolutely
turned his activity upon a work for which his
German studies had prepared him, and which,
nearly a year after Esther's engagement, had just
issued from the press.

He had thrown himself with enthusiasm into
its composition, and had launched it with full
confidence in its success ; but though it had
created somewhat of a sensation, its influence
upon the thinking part of society had not been
altogether what he had hoped. He had made
the mistake common to immature writers upon
speculative and quasi-scientific matters, of going
beyond the range of individual observation, and
of dealing with his subject in a dogmatic manner

that his years and experience did not warrant.
Bernard was ambitious and hasty in his conclusions,
and eager to cram down the public throat
theories in advance of his age, and crude enough
to provoke adverse criticism and even ridicule
from the pens of more practised writers than
himself.

A young writer, unless he be one of those
meteoric geniuses who take admiration by storm,
must creep unobtrusively into public notice or
submit to comparative failure. Cup and saucer
platitudes are more to the general mind than
subtle analysis, or the presentation of metaphysical
problems in the ponderous guise of
philosophical dissertation. Unless backed by a
profundity of reasoning that defies criticism, or
charged with a flippant brilliancy that appeals to
the sensational appetite of the day, such a work
must inevitably fall flat and unappreciated.
Many of Bernard's ideas were bold and original,
but they were unlearned and pedantically expressed.
The work had been laborious, and bore
signs of travail. Bernard had erred in estimating
his own powers too highly, and there was a self-assertion
in his conclusions that impressed unfavourably
and challenged criticism. Upon the
whole, the book if not quite a failure was the
next thing to one, and Bernard pride writhed

under the mortification. He had meant to do so
much ; and instead of reaping a harvest of commendation,
only disappointment had as yet fallen
to his share. He could have borne better to
have been entirely crushed than to have been
awarded stinted praise. At the same time a
clogged obstinacy was aroused in him, a determination
to discover the reason of non-success ;
and could he but have recognized it as such,
discomfiture was his best discipline. In truth,
he was passing through much the same phase of
experience as that which would by-and-by furnish
Esther with the clue to contentment, but at
present he chafed, was moody and bitter, and
took pessimist views of human nature.

Things were in this state with him when
he received the following note from Lady
Isherwood :

Barwold, December Wth.

My dear Bernard,

'* Leonie has just sent me home a lovely
dinner costume, a combination of colours which
she tells me has come direct from Worth — the
loveliest shade of pain hruU satin mixed with
rose, trimmed with bouquets of fuchsia blossoms
round the tablier and on the corsage. Please
remember that the fuchsia is the Longijlora, as it

is important that everything should be in keeping
cr, and the flowers have come straight from the
manufactory in Paris, and are perfect imitations
of nature.

I have lost Frederica Talmadge's address, or I
would write to her direct, as I know that such
things are not in your line ; but as I do not often
ask you to do anything for me, and you are
certain to see her, I will entrust you with my
commission. I want a fan painted to correspond
with the costume ; the material must be join
hruU satin, of which I enclose a pattern, and
the design in fuchsias to match those on the
dress. Please see about it at once, as I particularly
wish to wear the costume at Lady Atherton's
dinner on the 30th. I am sure that you can
have nothing particular to do now that your
book is out. Emilius says that you had better
run down for some shooting. You will be
pleased to hear that the Ladies AutJioriti/, which
I have begun to take in, speaks flatteringly of
your book. I should like to read it if you will
send down a copy ; it is so stupid not to know
anything about it when people ask one questions;
but I am afraid that you don't think much of
women's opinions. I should think Wills would
have a fuchsia in bloom of the kind I mentioned,
which Frederica could copy.

It is very dull here, and I am thinking of

engaging a companion. If you heard of any one
likely to suit me you might let me know. It was
most inconsiderate and ungrateful of Esther to
marry just when she was getting into my ways,
and after we had educated and made her presentable,
for of course she was a perfect savage when
she first came to England. We stayed a week
at Grately in October. Esther was looking well,
though a little thin, and had brought some lovely
gowns from Paris.

*' Believe me, dear Bernard,

*' Your affectionate Cousin,

Hermione Isherwood."

Oh Lord ! " groaned Bernard, " this is what
women come to. I had better give the order at
once, or I shall have no peace."

He walked down to South Kensington, stopping
at Wills', and purchasing a fuchsia of the
kind Hermione had named, which he ordered to
be sent to Magenta Terrace. Then he turned
into Gloucester Road, and at last knocked at the
mean little door set between its miniature bow-windows,
and area-railings.

It was a half-holiday at the School of Art, and
Frederica was taking advantage of the short
winter's daylight to get on with some Christmas
cards she was painting. The fashion of sending

such pretty greetings, which has come so much
into voo^ue of late years, was to her a small source
of revenue, and meant in the present instance, the
gift of a fur-lined cloak for Aunt Theodosian, to
replace the time-worn, imitation sealskin. The
little Abigail, slightly grimy, though a shade
taller and tidier than the original occupant of
Miss Talmadge's kitchen, opened the door, and
ushered Bernard downstairs into the little brown
parlour where Frederica was sitting.

Bernard's mind had been during the last six
months so full of other absorbing interests, that
he had almost forgotten Frederica ; or if he had
thought of her, it had been with thai vaofue,
pleasurable regret, unaccompanied by keen desire,
which one mentally associates with a congenial
companion, who has brightened some period of
our lives, but from whom circumstances have
combined to separate us.

It had been far otherwise with Frederica.
During the year that had passed since her visit
to Barwold she had gone over in memory, not
once but a thousand times, every conversation
that had ever taken place between them. She
had played softly in the twilight the pieces of
music that she connected with him, and 'had
lingered lovingly over the books they had discussed
together. Of course, she had read his own,

and though she had but vaguely understood his
involved sentences, had tried to discover in them
an esoteric meaning unapparent to the multitude.
She had drawn innumerable portraits of him,
which she had. sedulously concealed from every
eye but her own ; and had, in short, raised him
upon a gilded pedestal as the divinity of her
girlish existence. But she was full of maiden
modesty over her secret, and to have allowed
Bernard or any other to perceive her worship
would have seemed to her utter shame and
degradation. It had a deeper meaning than
most young attachments. He had unconsciously
touched in her being the spring of inspiration, and
it was to him that she owed her recognition of
something higher in her profession than anything
she had before seen in it — the presence of an
ideal to be striven after, that was becoming
visible in her painting. He had not talked to
her of Art, but he had unknowingly imported the
poetic element into her life.

She was thinking of him at the moment that
his knock sounded at the door. Aunt Theodosian
was in the kitchen which adjoined the brown
parlour, mixing the Christmas pudding, and
disturbing by her high-pitched monologue the
harmonious flow of her niece's work and reflections.
Her voice was plainly audible through

the partition, as it addressed the little maid in
self-laudatory admonition or remonstrance.

** Bless me, child, haven't you wiped that spoon
yet ? When shall I ever have succeeded in
teaching you the ways of a gentleman's establishment
? Do you think that Miss Frederica would
eat a pudding stirred with a greasy ladle, after
mingling in the county society of Woodfordshire,
and partaking of dinners that would surpass
your wildest imao-inino-s 'i Not that I have not
assisted at many a more brilliant banquet than
any that was ever placed upon Sir Emilius
Isherwood's table. Now the nutmeg — and watch
what I am doing, child. You will never have a
better opportunity of learning to do things in a
masterly style than by studying me. There are
very few poor butcher's drudges that have the
privilege of being taught cookery by a Glencairne.
There — you may taste a little mouthful. I think
Miss Frederica will say that she did not eat
better even at Barwold. Good, isn't it ? Didn't
I tell you it would be good ? Your last missis
did not know how to make plum-puddings. I
am not surprised at that. It is only a great
mind that can adapt itself gracefully to domestic
avocations. Blood will show itself, even in the
stoning of raisins. Give me the rum. There's
nothing like a dash of Jamaica for imparting a

flavour to a pudding ; bear that in mind, child.
Birth cannot be ennobled by wealth, but it may-ennoble
poverty, as Lady Susan — Good Lord !
why do you stand staring at me like a gaby ?
Don't you see that the milk for the custard is
boiling over — a good six pen north ruined. There,
get out of my sight, idiot that you are ! Hand
me the saucepan."

'aunt Theodosian," called Frederica from the
next room. " There is a knock at the street
door."

** At the front door ! Bless the child, and I
have not got on my front. If it is Mrs. Beastly,
my love, just cough loudly, and I'll come out as I
am. As finished a lady as ever breathed in the
three kingdoms, but reduced, through a bad
husband, to doing her own washing. Go and
open the door, Eliza, and show the lady into the
drawing — stay, there's no fire laid upstairs — no,
into the parlour."

Bernard was admitted into Frederica's presence.


It's not a lady, 'm ; it's a gentleman," said
the little maid, returning with her fingers in her
mouth.

Miss Talmadge applied her ear to the partition,
and satisfied herself as to the personality of her
visitor. The little maid had expected that her

mistress would instantly fly upstairs and don
the curls and the cap ; but no — Aunt Theodosian
stood silent and ruminative for the space of two
minutes. " There's no knowing what may come
of it," she said softly to herself. " There was
Lizzie Frazer, the governess, that married Sir
Arthur Haffenden, and Frederica, bless her, is a
Glencairne all over. She has just the same
dolly figure that I had when I was young, only
not so sjnrituelle. Hand me the pudding-cloth,
child ; and when the pot is on the fire come
upstairs and FU give you out the silver salver,
and a decanter of sherry to take into the parlour
before the gentleman leaves. That gentleman is a
friend of Miss Frederica's, child, a cousin of Lady
Isher wood's, and has always been accustomed to
have things set before him in the highest style;
so put on a clean apron, and brush your hair
before you come in with the wine. There is no
knowing what may come of it," i\liss Talmadge
went on below her breath ; '' one never can tell
what Providence has ordained. Frederica is a
Glencairne ; and a pedigree is not to be despised."
This reflection imparted an additional dignity
to Miss Talmadge's demeanour, as she took the
salver with the Glencairne arms in the centre
from its wrappings of silver paper, and decanted
a bottle of the late Colonel's sherry. Alas !

there was but one remaining. Then she went
into the drawing-room, and took from a book-bracket
on the little table by her best arm-chair
a sacred red volume much interleaved, and carried
it with her to her own bedroom when she
went to dress. " He shall see," she said in an
undertone while she combed out her front. '^ He
shall see that the Talmadges are lineally descended
from the Earls of Glencairne. It will be
impossible for him to doubt the evidence of the
peerage and of his own eyesight — and blood will
tell — " Then she shook out her dress, and
adjusted her curls with a solemn appearance of
responsibility that was not usual with her.

Downstairs Frederica stood blushing before
Bernard, as he held her hand.

I am so glad to see you again," he said,
warmly. *' I have often thought of you, and
have meant to call, but I have been much
occupied of late, and now I can't claim any credit
for coming. It is my cousin Hermione who has
sent me."

He handed Frederica Lady Isherwood's letter,
and laughed ironically as she read it.

*' You see," he said. '' What should I do if I
had a creature like that belonging to me ? Shall
I send my book down to Barwold to be discussed
over tea and muffins in the pauses of a council on

millinery. It is enough to make one hate the
whole thing. If I had not already felt a desire
to fling my book into the fire, I should long todo
so now, after hearing that it has been praised
by the Ladies Authority. Le FoUet will be pronouncing
upon me next."

Oh, Mr. Comyn," said Frederica, " it is
beneath you to be vexed ; and you must not
abuse poor Lady Isherwood and the Ladies
Authority. Do you know that I make a little
money sometimes by designing patterns for it.
See what some of us have to stoop to. I have
read your book," she went on, nervously ; "of
course I am too ignorant to say anything — I am
only a woman — a representative of the Ladies
Authority, but I cannot tell you how much I liked
it — even when I did not quite understand it. It
seemed to me so truly great. I kept an article
about it which I read not long ago, and have
wished to send you — but I did not like to do so."

You are very good," said Bernard, scornful,
and yet interested. *' I daresay that I have seen
it too, and if not, perhaps it would be kinder not
to show it me."

*' You shall judge," said Frederica, unlocking
with a key upon her watch-chain a little desk
upon a side-table, and taking from it a bundle of
loose papers neatly pinned together.

another woman's verdict upon my poor
volume," said Bernard.

I don't know why you should be so bitter,"
said Frederica ; " it seems to me that every one
has said good things about your book, except
those who have not understood it."

The phrase gratified Bernard. Writers who
have just fallen short of the standard they hoped
tx) reach, are pleased at the suggestion that the
common herd cannot soar up to their flights ; and
yet he was annoyed with himself, and ashamed
of his sensitiveness to praise or ridicule.

What does it matter ? " he said. " Failure
ought to be no new experience to me. I should
be above caring what people think of my work.
Like a Spartan mother, the true artist should
cheerfully give up his deformed child to immolation
without the city. It is better to fail in a
great purpose than to succeed in one that is less
than the highest."

That is true ; that is noble," said Frederica,
softly. " Ah ! you and I understand. It is not
for success that one works ; but for the religion of
excellence." She looked at Bernard as she spoke
with an enthusiasm in her face which he had
never seen kindled in it before. Was the artist
speaking unconsciously through her girl's lips ?
Her eyes drooped before his. " Every one must

care though," she said, in a lowered tone; "one
would not be human if one did not."

He took the slip of paper from her hand and
read it through. The article was from a well-known
journal of literary weight, and had the
signature of an authority in letters. Strangely
enough, Bernard had missed reading it, and it
spoke volumes for Frederica s tact that she had
singled out this review to show him. It was of
the kind most soothing to an author whose confidence
in his own powers has been shaken. The
praise was judicious, and awarded only where it
was manifestly due ; the criticism delicate and
discriminating, and the disapprobation calculated
to stimulate further effort. Bernard put the paper
down, feeling warmed and comforted. There
rose in his heart quite a new tenderness and
admiration for Frederica, and he wondered why
he had not come to her sooner. Here was indeed
a pearl among women — modest, appreciative,
talented, and full of noble fellowship.

You have kept all these," he said, pointing to
the bundle of newspaper extracts. "Were you
really so interested in my work ? It was very
kind of you, Frederica."

The Christian name fell from his lips unawares,
but it dropped like elixir upon Frederica's heart,
vivifying every fibre of emotion.

Why are not all women like you ? '' continued
Bernard, with an emphasis that was
almost passionate. '^ Men would be different —
life would be different if they were. Are those
Christmas cards that you are painting ? I don't
suppose that any one will care sufficiently about me
to send me such a greeting. I wonder if it would
be asking too much — if you would give me one
of those that you have painted ? "

"If you would like it," faltered Frederica,
selection the one which she thought the most
worthy, and giving it to him. *' A merry Christmas,
Mr. Comyn, and a happy new year."

Thank you ; I shall value this little picture
very much. What work have you been doing
lately ? " he added abruptly. " Are you getting
on well ? "

I have had three orders for portraits since I
have been at home'' replied Frederica. " My
patrons do not belong to the great world ; one is
our green grocer, Mr. Raises, who is anxious to
form a family gallery ; and another is a friend of
Aunt Theodosian's, Mr. Comyn, a lady of independent
means, who has given me five pounds
for my work, but — every one begins — I may
arrive at something higher in time."

You will succeed," said Bernard. " There
are some people modest, unobtrusive, patient,

wLo always do what they wish. You are one of
these I am certain. You will gain your heart's
desire, whatever it may be."

Frederica blushed again, and her heart throbbed
with joyful excitement as she listened to his
concluding words. Did he guess its innermost
desire ? — and was his assurance an omen that it
would be granted ? She turned away, fearful of
betraying herself.

Mr. Comyn," she said, with her face averted,
'' it is a very long time since we have seen you,
and I thought that you had perhaps forgotten us.
I hope that you will come again. Aunt Theodosian
would be glad — that is, if you are not going
away."

I have no intention of leaving London," said
Bernard, " and I will come again certainly. It is
kind of you not to punish me for my negligence,
and to ask me. We must try some duets together
again. I have often thought of you, and
of the music at Barwold."

Dear Barwold ! " said Frederica, softly. " Do
you know, Mr. Comyn, that my visit there was,
in some ways, a revelation to me ? I had never
stayed in a large, beautiful house before ; and the
piano — how miserable the poor little instrument
here seemed afterwards ! Have you seen Esther
since her return from the Continent 1 "

VOL. III. H

"How should I have seen her ? " asked Bernard,
sharply. " I shall never go to Gravely."

When they first went there, Esther wrote full
of plans. I was surprised at her energy — she, who
was always so dreamy — but she has said nothing
lately of restorations or village work. I have
often wondered whether she is really happy."

Happy ! " repeated Bernard, jarringly. " Of
course she is happy. She has married the man
of her fancy. She lives in a fine, historical old
place, and is a great lady in the county, and
Hermione says that she has beautiful gowns
from Paris. What else is there for a woman to
desire ? "

All women are not happy because they live
in fine houses, and wear ricci dresses, Mr. Comyn ;
and Esther is not one to be satisfied vdth. such
things."

Perhaps some require something more, but
every woman cares at least to marry the man she
loves ; is it not so, Frederica ? "

Frederica was spared the necessity of replying,
for at that moment Aunt Theodosian entered
rustling: her checked silk with considerable
dignity, and brandishing the open volume of
Burke in her hand.

I must beg you to forgive me for having
delegated to my niece the delightful office of

receiving you " — Miss Talmaclge had rehearsed
her little speech on the stairs — " and so great a
stranger as you have been of Late ; but domestic
avocations, Mr. Comyn, even in the largest
establishment, absorb a great deal of time. I
have no doubt that your cousin, Lady Isherwood,
with her numerous retinue of servants, would
agree with me. Comfort, Mr. Comyn, does not
depend so much upon the extent or grandeur
of the establishment, as upon the refinement
and true dignity of the mind which presides
over it. And these attributes," added the old
lady with an impressive nod, '' birth alone can
confer."

Bernard bowed.

"Frederica, my love," continued Miss Tale
"you are aware how recollection failed
me the other day, with regard to the precise
relationship which existed between the friend of
my youth, and the distant relative of Mr. Comyu,
Lady Susan Starkie — and the Talmadges and
Glencairnes. I have been refreshing my memory
by a perusal of Burke, in which the annals
of our family are contained. I find the link
explicitly defined. Perhaps Mr. Comyn would
be interested in our genealogical records, which,
stated in Burke, are incontrovertible. He might
run his eye down the page while you put away

H 2

your drawing-materials. I have told Eliza to
bring in tea, and sherry and biscuits."

No sherry, I entreat," protested Bernard.
A glass ; one little glass ? It is a wine which
my father put into bottle. ' Beau Talmadge,'
as His Royal Highness, the late Duke of Cambridge,
was wont familiarly to style him. A
finished gentleman of the old school, Mr. Comyn,
who used to drive his coach-and-four, and never
dreamed of tipping less than a sovereign. I
have heard his contemporaries say that it was
a privilege to see him walking down Piccadilly,
with his hat placed jauntily on one side of his
head, and his gold-headed cane in his hand,
spurning the very ground on which he trod,
as though the whole of London belonged to
him."

These reminiscences of her grandfather were
particularly painful to Frederica, and, blushing
hotly, she escaped from the room on the pretext
of seeing if tea was ready. When she returned.
Miss Talmadge had drawn her chair close to that
on which Bernard was sitting, and with the open
Burke before her on the table, was nodding at
him convincingly. " I always knew it. Frederica,
my love, it is as plain as a pikestaff. I was
certain there was a connection. Mr. Comyn's
great aunt was second cousin to Lady Susan

Starkie, who, as we have seen here, was distinctly
related to the Earls of Glencairne. You would
perhaps think me a foolish old woman, Mr. Comyii,
if I were to tell you that my heart warmed to
you from the first moment of our acquaintance.
Blood will make itself felt."

This is extremely gratifying," said Bernard.
Your aunt. Miss Frederica, has clearly demonstrated,
vide Burke, that we are cousins in a
fifth degree. I shall apply for all the privileges
of such near relationship."

Henceforth," said Aunt Theodosian, darting a
sharp glance from Bernard to her niece, '' you
will be received as one of the family. Consider
my door, humble though it be, always open to
you, Mr. Comyn. Young men who are bachelors
must sometimes feel dull in their chambers. My
society has been sought before now by the
unmarried of the opposite sex, who have confided
to me that the attractions of their clubs have
not equalled those of feminine companionship.
Though my roof is lowly, my furniture has
graced the mansions of the nobility ; and my
welcome is warm. I don't mind telling you, Mr.
Comyn, that I have struggled as few lone women
could have done, to keep up my position for
the credit of my ancestors. I have pinched my
small income in order that I might educate

Frederica to the level of her grand-parents. She
is a Glencairne to the back-bone. I have never
permitted her to associate with those whom I
considered it beneath the dignity of a Talmadge
to admit to terms of intimacy."

Aunt Theodosian's flow of eloquence was interrupted
by the entrance of the little maid
with the tea-tray first, and, secondly, with the
salver and the decanter of sherry, which she
placed before the guest. "Miss Talmadge," said
Bernard, "you are good enough to say that I
may make myself at home — and, in the first
place, I am a teetotaller ; I never drink wine.
If I might have some tea — "

I know," said Aunt Theodosian, magnanimously
conceding the point, and inwardly considering
how she should cork up the penultimate bottle of
the late Colonel Talmadge's sherry. " I knows
that it is the fashion now, even with gentlemen, to
drink tea before dinner, but my father used to
call it ' old maid's cat-laps I don't mind what you
drink, Mr. Comyn, if you'll promise to partake of
it here again."

'that I certainly will," replied Bernard.
"You'll be getting tired of me, Miss Talmadge.
Your niece and I used to play duets at Barwold.
I am going to bring some for her to try with
me.

Being fully alive to the importance of music
as an attractive element in female education,"
said Miss Talmadge, " I have always been careful
to provide Fred erica with the best instruction,
and am competent to pronounce judgment upon
that point, having myself tasted the advantages
which accrue to a gentlewoman who has the
reputation of being brilliantly accomplished.
During my visiting life, Mr. Comyn, I made a
point of practising for four hours every day upon
a silent key-board, and of reading improving
works for six. The consequence was, that men
fought to take me in to dinner ; and in the
drawing-room afterwards, I was invariably the
ensure of an admiring circle."

You are fond of music," said Bernard ; '' then
3'ou won't mind your niece giving us some now.
Do play," he added entreatingly to Frederica.

She opened the old cracked piano and sat
down. The winter darkness crept in upon them
as she played, gliding from one dreamy air to
another, with the fire-light leaping up in fitful
creams, and showing her fair head and delicate
profile in relief against the dingy brown paper
of the wall.

Miss Talmadge had discreetly left the room ;
there was a little murmuring of voices in the
kitchen, where she was superintending some culinary

operations, but it was not loud enough to
disturb the harmony. Bernard had drawn a low,
morocco-covered stool to the side of the piano,
and was bending forward, his head almost on a
level with Frederica's fingers. Though his eyes
were fixed upon her face, he was thinking of
Esther. There was a tender suggestiveness in
the music and in the half-light, that stirred his
heart with a softer long-inoj than he had known
for months. There was a soothing warmth and
quietness in the atmosphere of the tiny brown
parlour, with its little litter of feminine occupations
; the drawing-box, the books, the music, and
the soft graceful presence breathing melody, and
suggesting no alarming spasms of emotion — only
pleasant, balmy companionship. It was past six
o'clock when he took his leave, and it seemed to
him that the hours had fled very quickly. To
Frederica they had gone like an enchanted dream.
When Bernard reached home, his rooms looked
to him strangely bare and comfortless. His
writing materials were scattered about. His
pipes littered the mantelshelf. There was a
heavy smell of stale tobacco-smoke. His books
were dusty, and the fire had gone out. He was
Sfoinof to dine at his club : but as he glanced at
the clock, old j\Iiss Talmadge's words recurred
to him, and he felt almost inclined to endorse her

statement that a bachelor needs more than even
the delights of a club to make him happy.

Bernard had always prided himself upon his
independence of women's society. He had never
been of a vicious tendency, though he had always
taken a tolerant, free - thinking view of the
peccadilloes of other young men — judging the
matter rather from an intellectual than a moral
or religious standpoint. But he had himself kept
clear of most of the pit-falls of youth. That sort of
thing, he reasoned, might be pleasant and perhaps
necessary to the generality of men, but it was
not so to him. As for women, they were well
enough in their way, but their way was not his.
They were irrational and frivolous ; and as long
as a man had his books, and means sufficient to
enable him to travel and see the world, that was
all with which he need concern himself. But
somehow, within the last few years, or months ?
these ideas had changed; and the thought had
struck him somewhat frequently of late, that virile
humanity is not all-sufficing to itself, and that
a wife, who would be an intellectual, plastic, and
adoring second self, would not be a creature to be
despised. The natural egotism of man demands
that he shall have creatures dependent upon him?
and looking towards him as the sun of their universe,
and who shall, in their turn, supply him

with a motive for action and effort. There was
something very melancholy in the picture of a
lonely, loveless age ; such, for example, as that of
Lydyiard — Lydyiard, who had no channels into
which his intellectual faculties or pent-up sympathies
might be diverted, save his writing, his
reforms, his colonization schemes ; and who
frankly owned that life was barren.

Bernard had never been so beset by such
thoughts, as upon the evening of his visit to
Magenta Terrace. He came home early from his
club, where he had fallen in with some would-be
young men about town, whose talk had been
free and jokes loose and sickening. He sat
down to his writing - table, but the flavour of
Bohemianism had departed. Its imagination
went wandering towards a fancy picture of himself
leading a decorous married life, with the children
in bed, and his wife sitting opposite to him,
perhaps working or reading — or drawing ; ready
to discuss intelligently the last new review, or
latest contribution to scientific knowledge, or to
co-operate nth him in the j^lan of a new and less
ambitious work.

Two imaginary scenes would rise before him :
Esther, with her husband, in her luxurious home —
Bernard did not dream that the owner of Grately
would have cause to worry his wife over money

matters — smiling caressingly into that handsome,
sensuous face, beautifully dressed, and entering
\vith interest born of love into the " county lady
business, which she had once declared to be far
from her ; and Frederica Talmadge, modest and
maidenly, and yet full of noble, artistic enthusiasm,
painting in the little basement parlour —
Esther, whom he loved; Frederica, in whom he
was interested.

Bernard thought so often, during the following
days, of ^Magenta Terrace and the inmates of No.
13, that there was nothing unnatural in his
looking in again before Christmas, to see how
the fan was getting on, and to have some more
music.

On Christmas mornings there came a little
packet to Frederica ; a souvemr-de-JVoel, from
Bernard. It was only an engraving from the
picture of a soft-eyed Madonna which he had seen
in one of the German galleries, and which had
struck him at the time as resembling Esther's
school-friend. This bestowal upon the supposed
object of his affections, of the faint presentment
of her own features, did not betoken much lover-like
sentiment ; but Bernard had not taken this
view of the matter, and had merely looked upon
the present as a small recognition of her gift to him
of the Christmas card. To Frederica herself, the

sending of the picture meant much more. She
too saw the likeness to her own face, and
whispered to her heart, that Bernard, with true
tact and delicacy, had chosen this way of showing
her that she had been in his mind from the
very dawn of their acquaintanceship. She still
preserved the little. pencil-sketch she had made
of him at Westminster Abbey, attaching to it an
almost superstitious reverence, and accepting it
as the outward symbol of the interposition of
Fate, which had attracted her towards Bernard in a
crowd of strangers, and had created a subtle sympathy
between them that Time seemed destined
to weld more firmly. Upon Miss Talmadge,
Bernard's visits, which followed each other in
quick succession, coupled with his present to
Frederica, made a great impression. She kept
out of the way when he called — nodding, and
winking, and watching her niece curiously during
the intervals. She threw out many mysterious
hints, and was several times overheard by the little
maid, soliloquizing in the kitchen. "It would
not be anything of a match after all — for a
Glencairne."

After this, it became rather a habit with
Bernard to spend two or three afternoons in each
week, in j\Iiss Talmadge's basement parlour. His
visits were so frequent that the old lady ceased

to consider it necessary to produce the sherry,
or to put on her company gown, though, for the
few minutes that she appeared, for propriety's
sake, she always preserved her magniloquence
of expression, and carefully refrained from exposing
the little shifts and contrivances, by means
of which she made both ends meet and " kept up
her position." He generally dropped in when
Frederica's work at the School of Art was over ;
and there were desultory chats over a flickering
fire, while the snow fell softly or the fog choked
up the streets without : pleasant lingering over
the piano, and kindly hand-clasps and exquisite
thrills of happiness through Frederica's frame,
when Bernard's fingers touched her own, or his
eyes rested almost lovingly on her face. Bernard
had not begun seriously to reflect to what point
this soft dalliance was luring him, but Frederica
had quite made up her gentle mind, and was
treading the primrose path with no qualms as to
its ultimate destination.

CHAPTER V.

"you had only to choose."

The winter was drawing to a close, and
George Brand and his wife were spending a few
days at Atherton before the end of the hunting
season. There had been successive sets of visitors
at Grately, and the husband and wife had been
thrown but little into each other's company. It
was easy to avoid ttte'-d-tefes when, in the
morning, there was, on the part of the men, a
stampede out of doors, when the evenings were
given up to social intercourse, and when George
seldom left the smoking-room till two or three in
the morning. Ever since George's unfortunate reference
to her penniless condition, Esther had
shirked dispensing charity and forming plans,
and had kept coldly aloof from her husband,
feeding her unhappiness and certainty of his
dissatisfaction upon every varying phase in his
demeanour. If he was excited or joyous, she
imagined that he was trying to drown his disappointment
in a fictitious gaiety. If he was

moody and irritable, as much the result of nightly
potations and cigars as of any subjective cause,
she saw in his depression further evidence of
regret. All that touched the abstract side of her
emotional existence moved Esther powerfully,
and she gave George credit for an equal keenness
of susceptibility, whereas, in reality, he
had no strongly-rooted capacity for either joy or
suffering upon any subject whatsoever ; and had
Esther shown herself equally resilient, and appeared
before him unconscious and cheerful, he
would have ceased to remember that he had ever
repented his choice of a wife.

But Esther, painfully alive to the dissonance
between them, showed in her face and manner an
entire want of adaptability to his moods, and all
George's regrets came back to him with renewed
conviction when he found himself again in the
congenial atmosphere of Atherton, with Lina
Welby livelier and .prettier than ever, ready to
receive smilingly his attentions, and with the
irritation of jealousy to inflame his admiration.

Dr. Prendergast, Miss Welby's latest conquest,
was staying at Atherton. He had been, upon the
death of the late Bishop, elected to the Diocese of
Woodchester, and was a placid, ruminative individual,
who observed much but spoke seldom,
and who rarely enunciated an opinion which had

not been previously well aired and well weighed.
He had never been known to utter more thana
dozen words consecutively ; but, if seldom
original, they were usually to the point, and he
had acquired a reputation for wisdom, and was
universally pronounced to be a man of sound
judgment. He loved a good dinner, and was a
judge of claret, and as no woman had ever yet
inspired him openly with a tender passion, Miss
Welby had some reason for priding herself upon
her conquest.

The engagement was not yet formally announced,
but the Bishop, as he hovered about
Lina like an elephantine moth — for he was in
person large and dignified — round a candle,
allowed no doubt to exist as to his intentions.
He had proposed, but Miss Welby could not
quite make up her mind.

*' My love," said Mrs. Welby, who was all
in favour of the Bishop, "only think of the
privilege — the blessedness of being united to a
spiritual lord."

I am not sure that I should not prefer a lord
temporal," replied Lina flippantly; 'but he is
a dear, fat, comforting creature, and there's a
solidity about him which supplies the gravitating
force wanting in me. Darling mammy ! I am
far from despising the loaves and fishes, and

there is one point in which we shall certainly
agree. We shall both be made happy every
evening by a good dinner ; and I always felt
that I should die in the bosom of the Church.
I'll think seriously about it."

"But the suspense, dearest Lina ; think of
the anxiety he must be suffering. He looked
quite anxious yesterday."

I'm afraid he is gouty, darling. Make him
drink whiskey and potash water at dinner. Comforting
person ! There is no fear that his impetuosity
will cause him sleepless nights ; and
it won't injure his digestion if I keep him waiting
a day or two."

But she manifestly inclined towards him, and
upon the evening of the Brands' arrival, Mrs.
AVelby, taking the initiative, confided the state
of affairs to Esther. " Dearest Mrs. Brand," she
said, turning her great, expressionless eyes upon
her guest, *rit is most melancholy to think of
parting with one's only daughter ; but Wood-chester
is so close, and cathedral society always
the most delightful — and the dear Bishop could
be like no one else. I can't help regretting that
he is perhaps a little broad — but the Lord's
Anointed, you know — and then one must reflect
that the same thing happens to us all."

"Esther is enjoying one of mother's cream-laid

VOL. III. I

sentiments," whispered Lina to George ; " I can
always tell by the placid fixity of darling
mammy's gaze when she is uttering anything
particularly exhaustive."

She is talking about the Bishop," exclaimed
George savagely.

'sweet comforting creature! It gives one a
sense of repose to look at him."

I can't think how you stand it," said George
with irritation. " The great porpoise never takes
his eyes off you, though he is far too indolent to
get up and speak to you."

"Dear boy! He does not say much, it is
true ; but he thinks. You don't suppose that
it is commendable in clerical dignitaries to hop
about like frivolous laymen. My Bishop is a
man of weight."

When is it to be, Lina ? " asked George in a
melancholy tone.

I haven't quite made up my mind that * it '
is to be at all yet. If I marry the Bishop, will
you come and see me in my palace, George ? "

''No," answered George curtly. "I will
not."

That is rude, dear boy. In polite society,
when people refuse an invitation, they make a
point of saying, ' Thank you.' Why not ? I'll
promise you the best of cheer. The Bishop

prides himself upon his excellent table, and the
quality of his wines."

'' Don't chaff, Lina. I don't think that I shall
ever come near you again. Every time I see
you, I am reminded more forcibly than ever of
my folly."

What folly, dearest boy ? I had really begun
to fancy that you were much more sensible than
you used to be."

You know what I mean."

'* Indeed I don't. Did I ever advise you to
buy a horse that went lame the next day, or lead
you into flirtations that were likely to get you
into trouble with Uncle Coniston ? Did I not
literally snatch you out of the arms of Molly
Robinson, our bailiff's pretty daughter ? Have I
not always been your guide, philosopher, and
friend ? And now you turn upon me and reproach
me. I shall appeal to your wife. Esther,
I have just been accusing George of ingratitude.
He says that the sight of me reminds him of
some particular folly. A scapegoat was always
a necessity to him. You must teach him moral
independence."

Esther was crossing to the door, when Lina
arrested her. She had been watching her husband's
face as he talked to his cousin, and though
she felt no jealousy, in the vulgar acceptation

I 2

of the word, her sense of helplessness and inner
misery deepened as she looked. Her lip quivered
at Lina's jesting appeal, in which she
discovered a hidden, bitter meaning. The tears
rose to her eyes, and without replying she left
the room.

*' Really you are a very odd bride and bridegroom,"
said Lina, looking at George inquisitively.
You fall desperately in love with one another
upon an island, like the hero and heroine of a
poem. Then you are separated in the orthodox
fashion, meet again, and marry in the most
romantic way, and in less than a year afterwards
both look utterly wretched. If that is to
be the result of romance, I am glad there is
none about my Bishops''

Esther is not very strong, " said George
hurriedly ; "she is fanciful and hysterical ; I'm
hanged if I understand women."

When Esther came down dressed for dinner
upon the following evening, there was a mere
confused buzz of voices in the drawing-room,
and a greater expanse than usual, of satin drapery
falling in picturesque folds upon the carpet, and
Lady Isherwood, peach-like and vapid, was seated
by the fire, with her silken-shod feet perched
upon the fender, and a screen raised in her fat
left hand between her downy face and the flame.

Sir Emilius Alas peering through his spectacles
at a pair of Roman snuffers which Mr. Farquhar-soo
had rummaged out of the excavations at
Puddenham, and ejaculating : " Curious ! beautiful
! Strange how the ancient forms continue
to repeat themselves, and how, after the lapse of
centuries, the religion of art revives in all its
original purity ! " — while the Bishop, warming his
nether parts before the fire, and looking round
with bland benevolence, remarked ponderously :
*' It is an interesting fact that the most graceful
modern shapes are reproductions'

There was a third stranger, the sight of whose
black-coated figure standing near Lina Welby at
the piano, sent the blood rushing from Esther's
heart to her face, and then back again, leaving
her absolutely pallid. It was Bernard. He
turned sharply round as the rustle of her dress
made itself heard, but averted his eyes immediately
and only looked at her again while she greeted
Lady Isherwood. It was the first time that he
had seen her since the Atherton Ball, a year
before, and her changed appearance touched him
more deeply than he could have believed possible.
It was not that she had grown perceptibly stouter
or thinner, or more or less beautiful, but the
innocent unconsciousness and abstraction which
had marked her face in girlhood had gone from

it. It was wistful and troubled, and though still
dreamy at times, had an expression of perplexity, ■
as though experiences had come crowding too
quickly into her mind to be comprehended. Her
lips drooped even more sensitively than of old,
and there were pained lines about her mouth, while
the stains of purple beneath her eyes made them
look larger, and heightened the natural pallor of
her complexion.

The Isherwoods had been expected guests, but
Bernard's advent was a surprise. *' He only
came down this afternoon, " Lady Isherwood
explained, " and there was no time to send over.
I told him it was very bad manners to come here
uninvited, but he said you wouldn't mind. I
think you look very pale, Esther, " she continued.
"You never come to see me now, and I wanted
particularly to ask you whether you thought
that Frederica Talmadge would be offended if
I suggested that she should engage with me asa
companion. We would treat her quite as one
of the family, and the upper housemaid might
wait on her. I liked her better than any one weever
had staying with us, and she paints fans so
nicely, and has such good taste. I think that I
might even have some of my gowns made at
home if she would superintend CuUen. Leonie
is getting very high, and Emilius has made me

put down one of the carriage-horses, on account
of this agricultural depression. But do you think
that Frederica would come ? "

*^ I am afraid not, Aunt Hermione. She hasher
profession, which occupies all her time and
thoughts."

"Bernard, you ought to know," said Hermione.
You seem to be always seeing her."

I don't know how you could contemplate
such a proposal seriously," said Bernard. '* Of
course, Miss Talmadge would not accept it."

*' She has her profession," repeated Mrs. Welby
softly. 'how delightful that must be. One
needs something to fill up the void one often feels
in life. I used to paint on China once, but that
was before Dr. Lightner came, and the Church
was restored. Before, there was nothing to make
one care for the services. It is wonderful what
a difference stained glass windows, and the
intoning of the prayers, makes in one's devotional
feeling."

Yes," assented Lady Isherwood ; *' and the
soft light is always so becoming to one's complexion."


Everything at Atherton has changed for the
better," continued Mrs. Welby ; 'rand if dear Lady
Elizabeth only cared a little more for ordinances
there would be nothing to wish for. I sometimes

think that it would be a comfort if dear
Lady Elizabeth were taken to a better world."

'' A better world ? " repeated the Bishop, in
an interrogative tone. It was a fashion of his to
echo the last phrase of the previous speaker, with
a gentle variation of inflexion, which imparted
to the remark quite another bearing. Bernard
uttered an impatient *apish," and involuntarily
Esther turned towards him. Their eyes met, and
with a faint blush, she advanced a step towards
him, and held out her hand.

'^ I did not know that you were to be here
to-night," she said confusedly.

As you heard," replied Bernard, " I arrived
unexpectedly. It is a long time since I have
seen you. I believe that I ought to congratulate
you upon your marriage."

Esther's eyes met his with a kind of dumb
entreaty. It seemed to her that in this meeting,
under new conditions, their hearts were trying to
cry out to each other through the wall of conventional
restraint and misconception — that could
she once break down the barrier that now kept
them asunder, confidence and appeal for sympathy
must come rushing to her lips. Dinner was
announced, and Bernard was told off to take her
in. The party was too small for conversation to
be anything but general, and Bernard and Esther

were both unusually silent ; but as they sat side
by side, and went through the process of eating,
there was in the minds of each the consciousness
of a link between them which seemed to set their
two lives apart from the other lives around them.

You look very pale, dear," said Lina sympathetically
to Esther, when they entered the
drawing-room. " Is your head aching ? "

It is a little," answered Esther, clutching at
the excuse for pre-occupation.

'' Poor little person ! And all that clack about
gowns, and High Church services, must be inexpressibly
boring. There is an arm-chair in the
conservatory that is too delicious. You shall sit
there quite alone till the gentlemen come in. I
am sure that the quiet will do your head good."

Esther leaned back among the flowers, and
closed her eyes, shutting out the bright drawing-room
with its glitter of gilding and Sevres, and
hearing: nothing but the confused murmur of
Lady Isherwood's gurgling commonplace, and
Mrs. Welby's harmonious platitudes. A sense of
unreality overpowered her. The remembrance of
what and where she was slipped away from her
mind, and it seemed to her that she and Bernard
were standing despairingly face to face in an
empty universe. Then there came the sound of
an opening door, and of the Bishop's deep voice

saying sonorously : *^ I assure you it is an
extraordinary claret at the price. It's body is
something enormous, and it's bouquet exquisite,"
and Sir Emilius' piping treble, and of her own
husband's somewhat blatant proclamation : ^' I'll
tell you what, sir, if the old Lord had no eye for a
horse, he was a good judge of wines, and there is
some of the Lafitte of '58 at Grately, which I don't
mind laying twenty pounds will beat anything of
the kind in any other cellar in Woodfordshire.
Come now, the Bishop shall decide."

Esther could tell by the very tone of George's
voice that he was a little flushed, and in his mood
of after-dinner expansion, and her lips tightened
with an involuntary contempt. Though Bernard
did not speak, she knew exactly where he came
in the procession, and which was his footstep
among the others.

Where is Esther ? " asked Lady Isherwood.

She has a headache, poor darling," said Lina,
*' and I made her sit down quietly in the conservatory.
Don't disturb her. Come here, George.
I have had a photograph taken at Hassan's, which
I want to show you."

Then they all seemed to settle down, and after
a few moments Esther became conscious that
Bernard was approaching her.

Are you there, Esther ? " he asked, softly.

*' I am here," she replied ; and guided by
her voice, he groped his way through the dimness
of foliage and sat down beside her.

*your head is aching," he said. He spoke
abruptly, and as though he where struggling
against a tender interest which was yet evident
in his tone. It was so dark in the conservatory
that she could only see the outline of his face, ashe
sat with his back towards the lighted window
that led into the drawing-room ; but she knew
that he was looking at her. He sat silent for a
few moments, playing with the leaves of a scented
verbena near them, and making odd abrupt
movements, as though impulse and reserve were
pulling him different ways — then added, " I have
not seen you since the ball here; more than a
year ago."

*you would not speak to me that evening,"
said Esther tremulously. '' I thought that we
were never to be friends any more."

It was impossible then that we could talk to
each other as friends," said Bernard. ''I felt
that it must be so — always — till a short time
ago. I was angry, bitter. Perhaps I was self-confident,
and believed what I had no right to
think. If it was so, and I misjudged you, and
have hurt you by my wrong judgment — I may
again be concluding rashly — I ask you to forgive

me. There is something about you to-night
which leads me to fancy that we have both been
deceived in ourselves and in each other. You
Seem changed — still unsatisfied. You don't look
as I pictured you to myself. Esther, I suppose
that you have got what you wanted ? Is it so ?
Are you happy ? "

There was a painful silence, and then Esther's
voice sounded troubled in the dimness. " No one
has a right to expect happiness. I did not
expect it."

What do you mean, Esther ? " said Bernard,
bending forward and speaking in a quick gasp.
"Every woman expects to be happy when she is
about to marry the man she thinks she loves.
Tell me what you mean. Women have a queer
code of honour about these things, I know. They
fancy that marriage nullifies all other obligations ;
but when two people are — have been — as you
and I have been, truth at any price is obligatory
upon both. You may have failed in openness
through some womanish scruple. I am certain
that it was so. Be true now. Don't let us
continue to misunderstand each other."

*' I never wished to be untrue," said Esther.
^' I only wanted to do what was right. It would
have been better perhaps if I had explained — but
there is nothing to regret — for nothing could

have been different. Truth seems harder to see
than ever. . . . Oh ! there are some things which
do not bear talking about ! " she cried, hurried
on as it were beyond herself. Everything appeared
changed since she had last seen Bernard.
The horizon of her existence had widened — there
was in her a need to speak. " There are some
things which women ought to hug up as they
best can, and never say that they are unhappy or
disappointed. It is like groping one's way in the
dark, and one must not cry or call for help. Oh,
Bernard ! can't you understand ? "

'* Indeed I cannot, unless you will explain
yourself more clearly. It is all a mystery to me."

We strive after what we fancy is highest,"
Esther went on brokenly, *' and then find that
we have been mistaken. We cannot make other
people's happiness, which is dear to us — in the
way that we fancied would have been so easy —
and then there is the pain of knowing that
nothing can be undone, and that the true happiness
of beinor with some one for whom we care —
deeply, must always be denied to us by the force
of circumstances."

Oh, Esther ! " said Bernard, growing more
bewildered, and only realizing that she had
always loved him. " You knew what was in my
heart. You had only to choose. If you would

but speak plainly now. Most of the misery
in the world comes from cloaking our real
feelings.'^

"There is no use in talking of what could
never have been altered," said Esther, still incoherently.
" I ought not to have said anything."
And just then George's laugh penetrated to the
conservatory, and struck upon her ear with a
note of upbraiding and accusation. " If I were
to tell you that I was unhappy, it would be like
wronging my husband. I have no right to accuse
him. He has done a great deal for me. I owe
him my loyalty ; I owed him myself. I gave
myself to him when I was a girl. Now, you
know. Oh I surely you can understand. It is
not great things that determine our happiness
or wretchedness ; but all kinds of small things —
jars, misunderstandings that cannot be put into
words — or perhaps a deep regret underlying
everything, and poisoning existence to ourselves,
and to those nearest us. Bernard, I can't
bear to think that you are bitter against me —
against him. It is no one's fault. I want to
feel that we are friends."

If by ' we ' you mean yourself and your
husband," said Bernard, " I cannot couple you
together. I cannot shake him cordially by the
hand, or make any pretence of common friendship

with him. I have avoided speaking to him this
evening. He is distasteful to me. He is unworthy
of you. It is best that you should know
what I think of him, and that we should keep
apart."

Esther," called Brand from within, and then
he stumbled out into the conservatory, and peered
round among the plants. " Esther, where are
you ? Lady Isherwood wants to speak to you
about our going to Bar wold. Why are you
sitting alone in the dark ? Oh, you are here,
Comyn. Jolly place for a cigarette, isn't it ?
They never mind one smoking in here. I
suppose you haven't a match ? "

Bernard rose abruptly, and without taking any
notice of George's remark passed into the 
and left the husband and wife together.

*•' What does the fellow mean ? " asked George
in a low, wrathful tone. " That is the second
time this evening that he has not answered me
when I have spoken to him. What does he mean

by his supercilious airs? You know him better

than I do — Is that his way of trying to make
people believe that he is a better man than I
am ? I'm hanged if I stand it." Esther was
silent. " Why don't you speak ? Lina says that
you have a headache. If you appear in society
at all, I wish you'd be pleasant over it. I should

think if you are seedy, that you had better go to
bed."

Esther knew that George's irritation with
her was only an outcome of his anger against
Bernard, whose rudeness had wounded his self-esteem,
but cross words were hard to bear just
then. She checked her rising tears as she best
could, and went to speak to her aunt, while
George re-entered the drawing-room and joined
Lina at the piano. Bernard was playing, but he
so pointedly ignored George's presence, that the
latter turned to Lina in resentment.

"What does the fellow mean by taking no
notice of me ? "

bliss Welby shrugged her shoulders, and turned
aside. George followed her. " What does he
mean, Lina ? " he asked again.

Dearest boy, if men will marry pretty wives,
upon whom other men have been spooney, they
must take the consequences, and not be annoyed
at them."

The explanation was rather flattering than
otherwise to George's vanity ; and after the
Isherwoods had departed, and the ladies had
retired, he forgot his irritability over a cigar. It
was late when he came up from the smoking-room,
but he found his wife in her dressing-gown
still sitting: over her fire. She had been taking

herself to task for dishonourable conduct in speaking
as she had done to Bernard, and had been
crying as much from contrition as despondency.

Not in bed yet, Mousie," said George in a
kind voice, thinking to himself how pretty she
looked, with her flushed cheeks, and her waving
dark hair falling over her shoulders. He stood
against the mantel-piece looking down upon her
with a genial smile. He was in his tenderest
mood. " Is that the dressing-gown I bought you
in Paris ? How pretty that flufl"y stuff is —
swansdown — is that what you call it ? You
look nicer in white than in anything else. Is
your headache better, dear ? You aren't aD carry
with me for being sharp with you ; but that
fellow Comyn annoyed me. It was very kind of
you, Mousie, to sit up for me, but you will be
tired. You had better go to bed now."

Esther glanced gratefully at him, with the
tears still wet upon her lashes. After her late
reflections, there was something comforting in
this virile reality, upon whom she had a right to
lean. He was her husband ; she was bound to
him by closer ties than those unsubstantial yearnings
which drew her towards Bernard. The sentiment
of honour was strong within her, and she
recoiled from the vague treachery to this man,
who protected, fed, clothed, and, after his fashion,

VOL. III. K

loved lier, which her half-confession to Bernard
had implied. It was horrible to think that she —
a married woman — had a lover. Bernard was
right ; it was best that they should be apart.

As she had sat solitary and penitent over the
fire, she had felt herself to be morally guilty, and
this sense of guilt, of recoil from the evil thing
her imagination had suggested, and George's kind,
unsuspecting words, turned her emotions towards
him in a lull rushing tide. He was her husband ;
he had been her first love. She knew that it was
his nature to be hasty, to jump at rash conclusions,
and to speak out the thought that was uppermost
in his mind. He was fond of her. They had misunderstood
each other, and she had expected too
much from him. Perhaps, if their hearts were
bared to each other in this moment of mutual
expansion, all the mists of dissatisfaction might
roll away, and they might henceforth lead a
life, if not of high-pitched and perfect harmony,
at least of reciprocal comprehension and helpfulness.


These thoughts showed themselves in the
pleading tenderness that stole over her face, and
in the movement she made to draw closer to her
husband. George, though he was sometimes
irascible, and often obtuse, was easily touched by
any demonstration of fondness. He was tender

to his dogs and horses. He would have been an
adoring father, had he any children. To a thick-skinned
and more animal-natured ife he would,
as a husband, have been everything that was
desirable, but between him and Esther there.
always seemed a barrier of unrealizable expectations,
and of mutual incomprehension. Neither
knew quite how to approach the other. Transcendentalism
was a phrase of which he did
not know the meaning. If Esther could have
accepted him upon his own material basis of
eating, drinking, loving, and surface sensibility,
she might have learned to appreciate him at a
certain value, but she was always rating him
either higher or lower than he deserved, expecting
too much, or despairing utterly, and whenas
to-night, her impulses turned towards him,
they were often rebuffed by some crassitude of
temperament, density of understanding, or lowering
imputation, which made her almost scorn him.

She put her hand up as he stooped to kiss her,
and caught his, leaning her cheek against it and
looking up at him with a dumb yearning in her
eyes which touched him.

What is it ? " asked George. " Are you
troubled about anything, Mousie? Tell me. Do
you not think that I care. I care about everything
that vexes you. I wish that we under

2

stood each other better. Somehow everything
has changed between us. You don't seem to
care about me now as you did upon the island —
and when a man has married a woman, he expects
something more than mere toleration."

Oh, George ! " cried Esther. " How can you.
talk of ' mere toleration ' ? I don't want to
defraud you of your rights. I would give you
everything — more than you expect, if I could ;
but it ought not to be a question of giving and
taking by measure between husband and wife ;
we might understand each other ; we might be
happy together, if you would have it so."

If I would have it so," repeated George. " I
don't know what you mean, Esther ; what else
Avould I have ! Do you think that this miserable
coldness between us is pleasant to me ? Have I
not married you, and given you everything ?
Don't I do all I can to make you happy? I daresay
that I am a little sharp sometimes, but all wives
have to put up with that from their husbands.
And you grudge me your love in return. Is all
the giving to come from the man's side, and is
there to be nothing on the woman's ? "

Esther sat despairingly silent.

You are cold always," continued George.
"Your face never brightens when I come into the
room, or smile when I speak to you ; and I see

other wives who are very different — Vives who
have no thought but to please husbands, who
study their likes and dislikes, and are always
cheerful and loving when they are by. It is
your disposition, I suppose ; you are not affectionate
; but you Tvere not always so. It is that
which makes it so hard. A man gives up a great
deal when he marries. He has a right to expect
that his wife will make it up to him, and
when I see girls like Lina Welby — "

George," exclaimed Esther, almost passionately,
" don't talk of Lina Welby. I know
what you are thinking and wishing ; and if you
want me to be different, to compare me with
Lina is not the way to make me alter."

You are jealous of Lina."

'jealous! I am not jealous. I would scorn
jealousy. A man is not worth trying to please if
one can be jealous of him. You would have
tired of Lina if you had married her as you
married me. It was not my heart that you
wanted ; you never understood me. It was — it
was my face, I suppose, that you cared for, and
you are tired of that."

"You think very hardly of me. It is not
your face that I care for, though it is very
pretty — it is yourself. I am not tired of you,
Mousie," George added caressingly, a good deal

touched, and a little amused at lier vehemence.
I loved you very much when I came in here
to-night and saw you sitting there with your
flushed cheeks and soft eyes — and when you
seemed to care — "

Oh George," said Esther, moved too, " I do
care. I want to care. 1 want to be a good wife
to you if you weill let me. Help me. Be tender
to me. . . ."

'* Am I not good to you ? " exclaimed George.
*' Do I not consult your pleasure in every way
that I can ? Have you not a fine house, horses,
carriages, and servants ? Have I not given you
all these ? It is you who have gained, while I
have lost. But you do not think of your position
in that light — women never do. Don't look so
hopeless, Mousie ; I am not upbraiding you. If
it is your nature to be cold, you can't help it,
I suppose. AVhat would you like to do tomorrow
? It is a hard frost, and there can be
no hunting."

'taunt Hermione wishes us to drive over to
Barwold for luncheon," said Esther apathetically.

I'm hanged if I go to Barwold or anywhere
else to meet that fellow Comyn," exclaimed
George, his wrath rising with recollection. ^'I
have no intention of being treated like a cur by
a sneaking upstart like that."

I don't know what you mean," said Esther ina
high tone. " He is Aunt Hermione's cousin."

Are you defending him ? " asked George
suspiciously. '' What were you talking about
in the conservatory this evening ? Were you
abusing me ? "

Esther flushed guiltily, but said nothing.

Well ! " said George disagreeably. " Can't
you answer ? What were you talking about ? "

We were talking of things that happened
before my marriage."

"Then you must indulge no further in these
interesting reminiscences, unless he can make
himself decently agreeable to me. Lina says
that he was in love with you."

If he had been," faltered Esther, " you would
understand why he wished to avoid you, and
would be generous."

I don't see that there is any need for generosity
in the matter. If he wishes to avoid me,
let him avoid you also. I'm very practical and
clear-headed about most things, and I don't
understand that sort of sentiment. I don't care a
rush what he felt or feels about you. He has no
business to give himself airs in my company
By Jove ! if he shows his face in my house, I'll
kick him downstairs."

George went into his dressing-room, and began

whistling an air which Lina had been playing.
"The idea of comparing old Welby's wine with
what I have at Grately ! That old Bishop thinks
himself a judge, of claret. I'll show him what
I can do. in that line," Esther .heard him say.
in a disjointed soliloquy. *' It's infernally cold,'^
he exclaimed,; and then came in and. got into
bed. "Are not you coming, Mousie ? '.' he said
drowsily, but she. did not answer, and soon he
was asleep.; Esther sat over the fire till it had
almost died out. There was a . sense of dreary
oppression upon her — a kind, of gasping need ■ to
cry or sob aloud— but she was afraid to do that,
lest she should disturb George.

After all, what was her trouble ?— and why.
this perpetual demand upon. our sympathy ?

There was a soft bed demanding the pressure of
her limbs ; and all kinds of luxurious appliances
scattered about the chamber. She would awake
upon the morrow to a life of material ease. She had
a husband who had just assured her of his love, and.
who was the hero of her girlish dreams. Why this
yearning dissatisfaction that was ever upon her ?

'' Are you not coming to bed, Mousie ? " muttered
George, stirring uneasily. "You will
catch cold if you sit up any longer." Chilled
by her long watch, Esther slipped off her ,
and crept into bed by his side.

CHAPTER VI.

AUNT THEODOSIA's DIPLOMACY.

*' Frederica," said Miss Talmadge suddenly
one morning, " what is Mr. Comyn's address ? "

'* His address ! Aunt Theodosian ? " repeated
Frederica, looking up from her drawing with
guilty cheeks. *' It is Jermyn Street, I think ; I
don't know the number. Why do you want to
know?"

He has not been here for — let me see how
long," said Miss Talmadge, counting upon her
fingers. '* I think it was the day I went to see
Mrs. Beastly at Islington, and lost my new
umbrella in the omnibus. That is three weeks
ago; I remember it perfectly. A very genteel
young man accosted me as I was ascending the
steps, and offered to assist me. He got out before
I did, and I shall believe to my dying day that he
appropriated my umbrella. Yes ; that was the
last time Mr. Comyn came to see us."

"He may have been away from home, Aunt
Theodosian."

Perhaps so, my love ; but there are courtesies
which society demands, and which are due to the
humblest. Good breeding would have suggested
some intimation of the reason of his absence. It
would be only kindness to make Mr. Comyn aware
that we have noticed his remissness."

Oh, Aunt Theodosian," cried Frederica in
alarm, *you were not thinking of writing to
Mr. Comyn. You would not do anything so — "

I hope, Frederica," said Miss Talmadge
severely, 'that I do not require instruction in
points of etiquette. You may feel assured that
under all circumstances " — there was an ominous
pregnancy in the utterance — " I shall maintain
the dignity of a Glencairne. Mr. Comyn mayas
you suggest, be out of London, but it would
have shown a sense of what is due to me, had
he acquainted us with the fact."

Frederica was 'herself considerably troubled at
Bernard's silence and absence. Their intercourse
had been going on smoothly, and tending so
certainly, she had believed, to the end she wished.
Life had seemed so Elysian till three weeks ago,
when, without a word of explanation, his visits
had abruptly ceased. What could it mean ?
Could it be that Bernard had guessed her secret,
and was trying to show her, in the most conclusive
way, how entirely without foundation

were her dreams. She mentally went over his
looks and words, but all seemed rather to corroborate
her hopes, and she could find no clue to
his neglect, in anything that had passed between
them. It was her disposition to bear disappointment
patiently ; and except for an increased
paleness, a slight languor, and lack of interest in
her domestic occupations, she appeared much as
usual. The School of Art was closed for the vacation,
and at this time she was obliged to paint at
home. Her work seemed to supply in part the
void that Bernard had made ; but the light was
often dim at Magenta Terrace, and frequently she
found it necessary to put away her palette before
the afternoon waned. " Oh, if I were only able
to take a studio!" she exclaimed despairingly one
day.

"My love," said Aunt Theodosian, looking up
(with a moistness in her old eyes) from the polishing
of the Glencairne salver: "Why should
you be always troubling yourself about your
painting ? I don't like to see you working on
day after day, as though you had nothing else to
look forward to in life. Not that I ever objected
to it as a profession, for your grandfather was,
as I have often told you, a patron of Art, and — I
never had any time for drawing — it was one of
the few things I did not do ; but I once had

serious thoughts of becoming an authoress;
Theodosian,' Lady Susan Starkie used frequently
to say to me, * your letters and conversations are
worthy of being printed.' Literary composition,
as you may have observed, Frederica, is an accomplishment
in which L excel. You have never
perused a sentence of my penning, which was not
well rounded, with the longest word always last ;
but in those days I had different views, and I
did not realize then as I do now, that a Glencairne
cannot be degraded by work. These old fingers
are accustomed to labour. They have toiled and
scraped in secret for the honour of the family,
and for you ; but you have your pretty face, my
love, and your talents, and when the old woman
dies, there'll be enough put by to keep you from
starving. If you marry you won't go to your
husband quite empty-handed."

Aunt Theodosian," said Frederica, " don't talk
of my marrying."

And why not ? " asked the old lady sharply.
'' A Glencairne never died an old maid for lack of
offers. My love, I could tell you of men who
have called me an angel to my very face ; but I
was difficult to please. I had my model of a
finished gentleman always before me, and I would
take nothing lower. The new school does not
come up to the old — still I know a young man

who, if not quite your grandfather's equal

and you have your old aunt to keep up your
dignity, and to show them that you are as good
as the grandest in the land. It is the elders who
should look after their children. During my
visiting life I have frequently been taken into
the family councils whet an alliance was on the
tapis, and there was always a pause, a brief
interval devoted to inquiry and consideration,
for who was to say that there was not a bar
sinister, or even lunacy, to render the party ineligible.
I thank a merciful Providence that the
Talmadges have no blot upon their escutcheon ;
and I was determined that he should know
everything in good time, that he should see our
pedigree set down in black and white in the
Peerage."

"Oh, Aunt Theodosian!" cried Frederica, crimson
in her excitement and alarm ; " what are you
talking of 1 " There is no question of a marriage
or of — any one in particular — who cares to know
about the Talmadges and Glencairnes. It is my
profession that I ought to think of — that, and
Clara and Emily, who will have to do something
for themselves — oh, if I could only make some
money, and if we could only have a home
together ! "

My love," said Aunt Theodosian ;

ever likes to be burdened with bis wife's relations,
and Clara and Emily are children yet ; one
of them might come to me when you are gone.
Do not make yourself unhappy about them."

Aunt Theodosian," exclaimed Frederica, desperately,
'' you have got some shameful idea into
your head. I know that you have. You make
me blush with humiliation at the thought that
you may say or do something which 1 should
never get over — never, as long as I live. If it is
Mr. Comyn you are thinking of, you are quite
wrong and mistaken. I heard you speaking to
Eliza the other day, saying that there was no
knowing what might happen ; I am certain that
you were referring to me. It is such things as
these which degrade. What right had you to
speak of your own niece to a servant ? "

'* What right ? " echoed Miss Talmadge, furious
with the consciousness of guilt. " You presume
to teach me what I should, or should not, communicate
to my own servants. I, who have had
menials bowing down before me, and who once
numbered two Dowager Duchesses and sixteen
foreign princesses on my visiting list. And it is
you, whom I have bred and nurtured, who dares
to find fault with me. I had better go to the
kitchen and clean the grate — that is all I am fit
for," added Aunt Theodosian, with bitter emphasis ;

and the society of a butcher's drudge is best
suited to me now'

Miss Talmadge left the parlour, muttering
wrathfully to herself, and Frederica gathered up
her chalks, and went miserably upstairs to her
own bedroom. It was very cold, for Miss Tale
economy forbade fires in the sleeping-chambers,
but Frederica was too wretched to
mind that. She took from a secret receptacle,
Bernard's idealized portrait, and one or two notes
that he had written her, and found some melancholy
comfort in contemplating these relics of her
love ; but presently she heard Aunt Theodosian's
step upon the stairs, and had barely time to
hustle away her treasures before the plumed
bonnet appeared in the doorway.

The old lady looked dignified and uncompromising.
She suffered herself no indulgence in
soft speech, but in truth her heart yearned to the
girl.

I am going out," she said ; " I have some
little purchases to make, and some business to
transact. You need not wait dinner for me ; I'll
have some cold pork when I return."

She disappeared, and Frederica heard her rummaging
about downstairs, as if in search of something;
she evidently found what she wanted,
for presently the street door closed behind her.

and numbed and depressed, Frederica returned to
lier drawing in the basement parlour.

Aunt Theodosian walked briskly out upon her
business. It was mostly of a domestic nature, but
there was an important mission to be accomplished
later. A great resolve had been shaping itself
in Miss Talmadge's mind, and her words with
Frederica, the sight of her niece's tear-stained
face, and the glimpse she had caught of Bernard's
portrait, strengthened it into an immediate intention.
The Talmadges, she reflected, were not
like an ordinary family. Where passive quiescence
was all that could be expected from the
plebeian ones of the earth ; resolute action —
determination not to be trampled upon — was
demanded by right of blood from them. A
Glencairne could not be permitted to pine miserably
because a suitor had wooed and ridden
away. The young man must be made to feel
that it was not an ordinary specimen of womanhood
whom he was treating so cavalierly. The
honour of the house exacted that the only
responsible elder left should interfere. Not in
the way of stooping to canvass for a husband — no
a Glencairne must be wooed royally, and had
no need to sio^h for a mate ; but if a Glencairne
had condescended to bestow her affections upon a
particular individual, that individual must be

given to understand that a daughter of the house
might not be played fast and loose with. He
must either come With a definite intention, or
not come at all.

Miss Talmadge, in spite of her asseveration,
that she had *' not remained single for the' want
of asking," knew some of the bitterness of disappointed
love, and though she was vexed with
Erederica, her heart bled for her. She was
indignant with Bernard, too, but was willing to
Avait further proof before condemning him.
Though not quite a finished gentleman, he was,
in her estimation, a very genteel young man, to
whom her heart had warmed from the first.
Perhaps it was diffidence upon the score of
poverty that kept him away. Miss Talmadge
knew that he had an income of eight hundred
a-year ; but what was that, she argued, in the
sphere to which he belonged, and which was only
a degree lower than that in which she had
formerly shone with such brilliance ? And young
men had extravagant notions, and were so spoiled
by the comfort of their clubs, and so imposed upon
by their flunkeys. Flunkeyism was an institution
which Aunt Theodosian regarded with abhorrence,
though at the same time with a certain
awe, as an appanage of the higher orders. Upon
eight hundred a-year, Bernard and Frederica;

VOL. III. L

with the benefit of her wisdom and experience,
mio^ht live in gentility, and even moderate
luxury, with two maids and, perhaps, a page-boy.
With what delighted pride she would assist in
orofanizino- the establishment of her niece, Mrs.
Comyn — though far be it from her to break
bread too frequently at the expense of her
nephew^-in-law.

All these thoughts passed through Miss Tale
brain as she transacted her minor business,
— laying in supplies for the week's modest
consumption, purchasing a coal-scuttle at a
second-hand dealers, and chattering over the
bargain, turning over the cheap wares displayed
at the corners, and pausing to contemplate a
grey travelling - costume in the window of a
ofreat West End mercer — for she had taken an
omnibus from the Crompton Road to Oxford
Circus, and was walking down Regent Street.
Thank Providence, Turks are up a little'' she
said to herself; "and if I have to sell out
shares for Frederica's trousseau, I shan't lose
by it." She was very hungry, and looked a
little wistfully into a fashionable restaurant,
where ladies, who came to town for the day's
shopping, regaled themselves upon hot chocolate
or mock-turtle soup ; but Aunt Theodosian had
the spirit of a martyr and the stomach of a

camel. How could she have bought her furniture,
educated her niece, and maintained the
credit of the Glencairnes, if she had indulged
in soup at nine pence a plate, or even in promiscuous
Sally Lungs ? There was something
truly heroic in Miss Talmadge's self-denial — and
it was all for Frederica and for the honour of her
family.

She turned into Jermyn Street, and walked up
and down twice, before she could make up her
mind to knock at the door of Bernard's chambers.
In her rummage before leaving home she had
found a note from him, and had therefore made
herself certain of his address. She did not feel
quite happy about what she meant to do, nor
had she determined exactly what she would
say.

"It is not for a Glencairne to be trampled
upon," she assured herself several times. Had
not Lady Susan Starkie, she reflected, devotedly
gone to interview a young man in similar fashion,
when the happiness of her friend Theodosian Tale
had been at stake ? To be sure, the step
had not been followed by satisfactory results, but
what Lady Susan Starkie had encountered for the
sake of a friend, she, Miss Talmadge, could surely
brave, when the welfare of her best beloved
depended upon her tact and courage. "Things

L 2

can't have changed entirely since my visiting
days," she whispered to herself as she rang the
bell.

Bernard's man-servant opened the door ; he
looked astonished at the sight of the erect old
lady in her long, shabby cloak, with her bag, her
umbrella, and her cotton gloves. " Is Mr. Combat
home?" asked Miss Talmadge, with a dignified
air, though she was a little awed by this
representative of flunkepsm in plain clothes.

Mr. Comyn is in," said the servant, " but he
is always busy in the mornings. What name
shall I say ? "

"Miss Glencairne Talmadge," said Aunt
Theodosian. "I will follow you. You need be
under no apprehension that Mr. Comyn will not
receive me. I am a connection of the family."

The servant led the way up three flights of
stairs, while Aunt Theodosian followed him with
tightened breath, into the little study, where
Bernard sat at his writing-table, with his books
and MSS. scattered about him.

Miss Talmadge," he exclaimed, rising and
holding out his hand. " This is a surprise. I am
afraid that you are very much out of breath
with your climb ; but the truth is, I have let the
two lower stories. It pays better, you see ; and
my diggings, if they are high, are airy."

Aunt Theodosian seated herself, but for several
seconds she was too breathless to speak. " I — I
really," she gasped. " It's my heart, Mr. Corny d.
The doctors have told me that my internal
organization is so delicately adjusted, that agitation
or haste is highly injurious to my system."

Take a glass of sherry," said Bernard, opening
a cellaret near him and producing a decanter
and a wine-glass. "You'll excuse my rough
ways, Miss Talmadge. I can't say that my
grandfather put this into bottle, but it is not
bad stuff." He poured out a glass and. handed
it to her. " You really must, after your walk
It is only returning hospitality, you know," as
Miss Talmadge waved her hand and shook her
head in protest. " I shall be offended if you don't. "

Aunt Theodosian accepted the wine. It was
brown sherry and very strong. She sipped it,
becoming gradually more composed, and waxing
also extremely courageous. A young man who
pressed so politely — a young man who was so
nearly a finished gentleman, and who seemed so
glad to see her, could not be a deceiver.

"Mr. Comyn, " said she, "you may be surprised
at this invasion of your domicile by an
old lady."

Not at all," interrupted Bernard ; " I am
delighted."

But the truth is that I — we — were becoming
somewhat apprehensive on your account. You
have not been near us for — shall I say three
weeks ? "

I'm afraid that you are draT\'ing it mildly,"
said Bernard. " It must be a month good. I
have been shooting in Woodfordshire, and since
I came back have been awfully busy."

In investigating family matters," suggested
Aunt Theodosian, too full of her preconceived
notions to question the expediency of the remark.

"Not exactly," said Bernard, looking surprised.
"Sir Emilius Isherwood does that. You see I
don't set such store by my family as you do by
yours, Miss Talmadge."

*' j\Ir. Comyn," began Miss Talmadge, with a
reddening face, as she put down her wine-glass.

Allow me, " said Bernard taking it from her.
She had been tired with her walk, poor old lady,
and the unaccustomed beverage had the effect of
loosening: her tongue. She went on : ' I have
ever been proud of my pedigree, and I hope that I
shall continue so, as long as there is blood in my
veins. Noblesse oblige. It is a beautiful motto, ]mr.
Comyn, and there are things one would do for
the sake of one's family which one might hesitate
to do for oneself individually — which might,
in the estimation of some vulgar minds, and

perhaps truly, degrade a woman who had the
misfortune to be of humble ancestry."

Bernard bowed interrogatively.

But I thank a merciful Providence," continued
Aunt Theodosian, her voice rising, as it
always did when she became excited — " and it
is all written down in Burke, of the year '40, Mr.
Comyn — that my birth elevates me above such
considerations. We may have our little shifts.
Poverty may have reduced us to riding in an
omnibus, instead of in a coach-and-four, which
was the equipage in which my grandfather and
Frederica's great-transparent rolled through
the streets of London ; but the distinguishing
marks of ancestry remain to us. We cannot
walk in a crowd unobserved. No matter in
what humble apparel we may garb ourselves, our
Birth still shines resplendent. We are Glen-cairns,
Mr. Comyn, and not to be treated
lightly."

I am sure, " said Bernard, " that no one
could have a higher respect for the Glencairnes
than I have. Miss Talmado^e."

I am glad to hear it, " said Miss Talmadge.
*' It is fitting that it should be so, for you also
are of our blood, Mr. Comyn — through my dear
friend, and distant relative. Lady Susan Starkie,
And that brings me to the matter of my visit

Some small misapprehension may have arisen —
a delicate scruple perhaps. No one understands
these little difficulties better than I do — and
if you would confide in me. If it were only
that which had caused the cessation of your
visits."

'' I am extremely sorry, Miss Talmadge, "
began Bernard, " if you have thought — "

It is not what I have thought, Mr. Comyn,"
said Aunt Theodosian, " but what is becoming tome
as a lady and a Glencairne, and to you'
she added with emphasis, and fixing him with
her eye, " as a man of honour."

I hope," said Bernard, drawing back slightly,
that my conduct as a man of honour is free,
in your mind, from any imputation."

Society was differently organized in the days
of my visiting life " said Miss Talmadge. " Since
that time, the laws of etiquette may have altered.
I will not say that they have not, but I abide by
what was instilled into me by those who had a
rio-ht to teach— by the example of the dear friend
of my youth, Lady Susan Starkie. In those days
when I was younger, and perhaps more conversant
with such delicate matters, it was customary
for the representative of the family to interfere
when the happiness of his or her female relatives
was at stake. A hint on his or her part was

sufficient; it was understood. A finished gentleman
had his unalterable code of honour. When
he found that he had knowingly, or inadvertently,
aroused expectations which it was out
of his power to realize — he withdrew, Mr.
Comyn."

Aunt Theodosian nodded as she deliberately pronounced
the concluding words of her harangue.
She was pleased with her own eloquence, and
felt that she had put the matter delicately, yet
forcibly. There could be no misapprehension
of her meaning. And at the same time she had
mentioned no names, and had said nothing which
could directly compromise her own dignity, or
that of her niece. She felt confident of a happy
result to her diplomacy.

Bernard was cutting a pencil, which he had
taken up from the table near him, and continued
his occupation as he answered pointedly : " Am
I to infer from this — hint — with which you have
favoured me. Miss Talmadge, that you wish my
visits at your house to cease entirely ? "

Poor Aunt Theodosian did not realize how
clearly Frederica's future had defined itself in
her imagination till Bernard's cold reply effaced
its fair outlines. " That was not quite what I
meant to imply," she answered with a little falter
in her voice. "There are — circumstances under

which you would be welcome." Oh! was her
darling: to be made miserable because this obtuse
— this wicked young man, had no sense of
the distinction that had been conferred upon
him ? '' That must depend upon yourself. It is
not of you I am thinking — not your happiness,
which is dear to me. A man may indulge in
society which he finds pleasant — and music, and
philandering, and all that. No harm comes to
him; but a woman, a young girl, must suffer, and
make no sign even if her heart is breaking . , .
Not that I would have you think ." cried Aunt
Theodosian suddenly, pulling herself up, and glaring
at Bernard. " Oh, no. A Glencairne has no
need to stoop — but we cannot be played fast and
loose with. "We are not like common people. I
am a poverty-stricken old woman, it is true, but I
can guard my own. I have my pride. I might
have sunk to the level of my income, but I have
said to myself : ^ No ; Theodosian Talmadge may
starve, but she will never stoop to what is beneath
her.' A merciful Providence has enabled
me to live respected ; to furnish my house in a
style befitting my birth ; to educate my niece,
and to put by a little for her. She will not be
quite penniless when the old aunt dies. Oh,
yes ; I can look after my own — all that I have in
the world to be fond of."

Miss Talmadge's voice was trembling with
emotion. Bernard put down his pencil, and
looked across at the old lady. She was sitting
bolt upright, fingering her bag, and tapping
her foot, while she stared straight before her, as
though to ignore the fact that there was a large
moist drop in each eye.

Miss Talmadge," said Bernard gently, " don't
distress yourself any further. J am sorry that
you should have been troubled by any doubt as
to my intentions. May I come and see Frederica
this afternoon ? Will she be at home ? "

Miss Talmadge's mental kaleidoscope assumed
instantly its original proportions, and she thought
of the grey travelling-dress, and the rise in Turks.
But her exultation was a little damped by the
dread lest she had sacrificed an iota of her niece's
dignity.

I don't think that Frederica meant to go out
to-day," she said, with a slight hesitation. " Mr.
Comyn, I may go away feeling satisfied that I
have not lowered myself, or any one else, in your
estimation — may I not ? You have understood
me ? A Glencairne has a right to look high —
and there was a time when this would have been
a condescension."

Rest assured. Miss Talmadge," said Bernard,
*' I consider that the unworthy person who maybe

fortunate enough to have secured your niece's
heart has obtained a treasure beyond price. I
have always felt this strongly."

Miss Talmadge wiped away the drops which
threatened to fall. " I .am glad to hear you say
so, Mr. Comyn. She is a good darling, and will
indeed be a treasure to the man upon whom she
elects to bestow herself. It is not for a Gleu-
carne to sue for a husband."

I have no doubt. Miss Talmadge," said Bernard
gallantly, "that many a disconsolate swain
has sued for you."

Aunt Tbeodosia rose, smiling blandly. "Ah,
Mr. Comyn, you may think it flattery, but the
compliments I have had paid me in my time ! —
enough to turn an ordinary woman's head, but I
had a mind above that. There was a Colonel
Destiny — he is dead now, poor fellow ; and the
most finished gentleman — of the old school.
The first time he ever set eyes upon me, he said
to Lady Susan Starkie, with whom I was staying,
Lady Susan, your young friend is the most
angelic being that ever crossed my path.' But I
was slim in my young days ; with a dolly waist
and back ; Frederica, though she is tall and elegant,
will never have her old aunt's back. I
assure you, Mr. Comyn, it was not much broader
than my hand. I declare that is two o'clock

striking, and I have been keeping you all this
time from your luncheon. Ill take my leave
now, Mr. Comyn ; we shall meet again by-and-by.
I am sure that your natural delicacy will
bid you refrain from informing Frederica that I
have been here this morning."

You may trust me, Miss Talmadge. That
Avill be a little secret between ourselves."

Bless you, dear boy," cried Aunt Theodosian
with effusion, warmly shaking his hand. *' And
now I can go home to Frederica, happy."

Bernard escorted Miss Talmadge downstairs,
and closed the door upon her. " sly aunt-inlaw
! " he said aloud, with a little laugh, as he
threw himself in an arm-chair. Miss Talmadge
as a near relative, might not have been to many
men a pleasing feature in the prospect, but Bernard's
odd independence of character made him
less susceptible than most people to such a consideration.
He smiled in amused toleration as he
thought over the interview. But it had changed
the whole tenor of his reflections, and he wrote
no more that day, but gave himself up to visions
of the future, as it had suddenly presented itself
to his imagination.

Though he had not as yet seriously contemplated
making Frederica his wife, he had been
unconsciously drifting towards the idea, and

all his thoughts of her were tender and soothing,
and fraught with affectionate interest.

He had not been to Magenta Terrace since his
return from Woodfordshire, because his feelings
had been diverted into another channel by the
meeting with Georore Brand and his wife at
Atherton, and he had worked feverishly, in the
effort to efface from his memory Esther's sad,
tremulous face, and the broken words in which
she had implied that her marriage was a mistake.
But whatever it might be, it was irrevocable.
She had chosen her own lot, and must abide by it.
Might it not be best for them both that he should
place a double barrier between them ? He had
told himself in the old days, before he had quite
realized what place Esther held in his heart, that
Frederica had every quality which he could desire
in his wife. In every particular she was love-worthy,
and she had all those definite, moral and
mental attributes that an intellectual man is
right to wish for in his life-companion and the
future mother of his children ; whereas Esther,
a creature of vague possibilities, and uncertain
harmonies vibrating at the gentlest touch, might
have proved entirely unsuited to the wear and
tear of common-place life. He might, later on,
have made the painful discovery that their natures
were not attuned, and only misery and dissonance

might have resulted from their union.
It was better perhaps, that their lives should
have been ordered apart.

In the usual order of things Bernard walked
from his chambers to Magenta Terrace, but this
afternoon his reverie made him late, and it was
necessary to take a cab. The lamps had just
been lighted in the dingy, narrow street when he
drew up at Miss Talmadge's door. The little
maid looked mysterious and important as she
let him in. Doubtless Aunt Theodosian, in her
elation and incapacity for keeping silence, had
dropped a hint of what might happen, and Eliza
was far from indifferent to the romance of a
love affair.

A gentleman who drove in a hansom, and
flung the driver a two-shilling-piece, without
haggling over the extra sixpence, was a suitor
after whom Miss Frederica might reasonably
pine ; but now he had come back to his allegiance,
and all was going to be made straight. Miss
Talmadge, upstairs in her own bedroom, had
heard Bernard's knock, and stood breathless with
excitement upon the landing, watching over the
banisters till he had been admitted. It would
have seemed to her more fitting that the momentous
interview should take place in the drawing-room,
in the midst of her household glories, with

the portrait of the late Colonel Talmadge smiling
benevolent approval upon his grand-daughter's
betrothal, but she had not dared to have a fire
lighted in this sacred apartment, lest Frederica
should suspect what had been her morning's
mission. She was fain to comfort herself with
the reflection : "He has seen the drawing-room,
and perhaps it is just as well not to begin using
it ; for I could not keep the chairs peppered from
the moths, and coal is dear this winter."

The little maid, acting upon private orders,
showed Bernard downstairs, and unannounced,
into the basement parlour where Frederica was
sitting. The fire was burning brightly, and she
was stooping over it, the flames casting gleams
upon her purple gown and fair head. All the
rest of the room was in shadow except where the
silver, which Miss Talmadge had been cleaning,
and which in her excitement she had forgotten
to put away, caught the glow.

Frederica had heard the cab drive to the door,
and had recognized Bernard's voice asking for
her. She felt sick with inward longing and
excitement. Could it be that he had come with a
definite purpose ? Something in the tone of his
voice and the resolution of his tread suggested
the idea. Was the desire of her soul to be
granted at last ?

She rose blushing: and trembling as he entered,
and she never could tell afterwards how he
accosted her, or what she replied, or how she
became suddenly aware, without any elaborate
leading up to his purpose, what was the object
of his visit. He felt so sure of her that it did
not occur to him to affect any doubt or hesitation,
and, as we have seen, lack of self-confidence
was not characteristic of Bernard's disposition.
His frame did not thrill at the touch of her fingers
as when Esther and he had joined hands in the
drawing-room at Barwold ; but if there was no
passion, there was sufficient depth of tenderness
in his manner to satisfy the most exacting
requirements, as, after the interchange of a few
embarrassed words which revealed to each the
consciousness of the other, he put his arms round
her waist and drew her to him.

Frederica," he said, '' you must guess why I
have come, and that I am going to ask if you
will be my wife ? . . ."

Their lips met tremblingly — it was Frederica's
first love kiss. . . .

Upstairs, Miss Talmadge, her front awry, her
fingers twitching with anxiety, stood, still peering
over the banisters. The little maid, quite
as eager as her mistress, rushed up to her.

VOL. III. M

Oh ! ma'am, they're at it now — he's with
her—"

"Hush!" said Miss Talmadge with dignity.
"EUza, you must remember of whom you are
speaking. They are not like common people,
and it is no great match for a Glencairne.
There was a time in my visiting life when I
was the pet and plaything of the aristocracy,
that I should have thought myself demeaned
had I stooped to a commoner. Mr. Comyn is
a very genteel young man, but he is not the
equal of my father. Go back to your work,
child, and do not listen. Remember that eavesdropping
is as dishonourable in a scullion as in
her mistress.

CHAPTER Iii.

'you HAVE MADE THE BURDEN OF MY
OBLIGATIONS TOO HEAVY FOR ME."

One morning, about this time, Esther was feeling
lonely and depressed, and the thought struck
her that she would drive over to Atherton and
consult with Lina Welby about the Hunt Ball at
Woodchester, to which Mrs. Welbv had asked
that she would chaperone her daughter. Esther
did not care much for balls. She had never
been to any in her life except that at Atherton,
and two or three in Eome, but George had
expressed a wish that she should be present, and
that, as it would be her first public appearance
in the county since her marriage, she should
appear with all pomp. She hesitated a little
before ordering the carriage. It was not usual
with her to make long expeditions without first
consulting her husband, for George liked his
leave to be asked about anything that had todo
with the stable ; but it happened that upon
that day he had started early for a distant meet,

M 2

the very last of the season, and the project had only
occurred to Esther after his d departure. She was feel -
ing that oppression of solitude, from which young
wives so often suffer in their early married life.
Books seemed to have lost much of their charm ;
needlework had never had any special attraction,
and parish matters had not become sufficiently
part of her life to be a resource against ennui.
There were no very near neighbours at Grately,
and the Woodfordshire ladies, as is frequently
the case in hunting counties, where sons and
husbands monopolize horse-flesh, were not much
given to visiting among themselves. Esther ate
her luncheon alone, and set out soon afterwards
on her eleven miles drive.

It was a clear February day. The birds were
twittering quite joyously, and the air was balmy
and sweet, with a pleasant foretaste of spring.
The fat, yellow aconites were lifting their button
heads above the mould ; and by stretching her
imagination Esther could fill the void squares
and the garden with geraniums and cancellaria,
could sniff primroses of the future, and enamel
the lawn with daises.

Keenly susceptible to external and atmospheric
influences, Esther felt her whole being expand
with the promise of better things. The wintry
sun shed cold gleams across the patches of still

unmelted snow, and a few dropping stalactites
hung yet from the leafless branches of the trees ;
but the crocuses and snowdrops were flowering in
the borders, and nature seemed to whisper a hope
of coming warmth.

As she leaned back in the brougham Esther
reviewed her mental attitude towards her husband.
It was not a cheering retrospect. Only
that morning more jarring words had been spoken.
George had not meant to be unkind, and had
forgotten the matter almost before he had ridden
off", seemingly well content with himself; but
Esther bad remained at home, and had not forgotten,
though she had spent the morning in her
pleasant boudoir, with everything about her to
distract her thoughts and to make life enjoyable.
She had felt more keenly than ever that want of
harmony' between the inner and the outer, which
all her life had troubled her. Everything seemed
fair and prosperous to outward seeming, while
within all was jarring and bitterness.

To her limited knowledge it seemed so everywhere.
At home people were careless and
biting to each other, never appearing to mind
how they wounded each other's tender est susceptibilities.
All the kindness and sympathy
came from without — from strangers with whom
there was no close, mutual bond. Whose

fault was it ? Must it be the inevitable result
of proximity that the mask should fall and reveal
all the pettiness and unloveliness beneath ?
Why should the closeness of daily companionship
disclose all that was mean and oTovellinor inhuman
nature ? Esther had the unhappy longing
to peer below the surface of externals, to
get at a spring, a reason for motive and action,
by which she might try and reconcile both.

Had she been older, had she learned better the
philosophy of living, she would have seen that
egoism was in a great part at the root of her discontent
— that self-absorption, which is not vanity,
but rather a morbid, introspective groping after
truth. In the comparative one-sidedness of her
nature lay the source of her dissatisfaction and
incapability, not in the greatness of her aspirations,
in painful contrast with the meanness of
her spiritual circumstances.

Struggling child-like against the sense of hopelessness
and difficulty, Esther told herself, with
a futile attempt at belief, that perhaps she was
altogether to blame. She felt things too keenly,
and expected too much. She perhaps needed
the stimulus of a healthy material impulse to
draw her from the abstract, and interest her in
the concrete. She would try to find some such.
God might be gracious to her by-and-by, and

send her children, who should fill that terrible
vacuum in her life.

She was in the full swing of her reflections
when the carriage drew up at Atherton. Mrs.
Welby was not at home, but the butler believed
that Miss Welby was in the morning-room ; he
was not certain, but he would inquire, if Mrs.
Brand would walk that way, and knowing
Lina's desultory habits, Esther told the man he
need not precede her. If Miss Welby was not in
the morning-room, she would wait there till her
re-entrance. But Lina was there, and playing
evidently to herself, for the sound of chords,
struck disjoin teddy, fell upon Esther's ear, and
ceased abruptly ere she had reached the door of
Lina's retreat. Esther opened it and stood for a
few seconds on the threshold in mingled indignation
and surprise at the scene which presented
itself.

The morning-room at Atherton was a cheerful
apartment opening out of the hall, full of soft,
lounging chairs and couches, and littered with
books and magazines. A large log burned on
the hearth, and a cottage piano was placed in a
recess near the fire-place. A single easy-chair
beside it, was suggestive of a tête-à-tête flirtation ;
and, truth to tell, many a one had Miss Welby
carried on in that cosy corner, with her adorer's

face upon a comfortable level with her wrists,
and his ear just at a convenient angle to catch
the soft-toned phrases which flowed in harmony
with the music. An uncomfortable seat for the
Bishop, who was ponderous and obese, but just
suited to a lithe shape like that of Brand, and
a ready hearing that could interpret without
difficulty subtle inflexions of voice and melody.
It was her own husband whom Esther surprised
in the enjoyment of this somewhat compromising
position. He was bending forward with his
eyes up-turned to Lina s face, in an eager,
passionate gaze — how well Esther knew that
pose — while she, smiling down upon him in a
half-seductive, half-rebuking manner, fingering
the keys with one hand, attempted to withdraw
the other which he had seized, and, as Esther
stood in the doorway, pressed with fervour to his
lips.

'dear boy!" murmured Lina, with a coy,
comical look. "You forget — the Bishop."

Hang the Bishop 1 " exclaimed George. " You
like me better than the Bishop ; confess now
Lina."

Well, I wouldn't quite say that, dear boy,
though you are very comforting and nice sometimes."


You do," cried George, growing more eager

and, excited. "You would have cared for me if
I had not been such a confounded fool. Tell
me," he went on ; "it can't make any difference
now. Would you have married me if — "

He stopped abruptly as Lina, starting from
her seat, wrenched her hand from his, and pointed
with a forced smile to the doorway where Esther,
like one petrified, stood. " It is a perfect 
comedy," she cried, recovering her self-possession
in a moment. " Esther, who would
have dreamed of seeing you ? George wants
keeping in order. You have so spoiled the
naughty boy by allowing him to indulge his
naturally spooney disposition, that he can't help
kissing the paws of any young woman who
happens to be handy — when yours are not available."
Truly Miss Welby was a young lady not
easily taken at a disadvantage.

George reddened at the sight of his wife, and
laughed a little awkwardly.

A great wave of scorn and indignation swept
over Esther's soul. She despised her husband at
the moment too deeply to feel personally hurt or
outraged. What did it matter to her that he
preferred Lina Welby to herself now ? The
shame was not to his wife, but to himself — in his
double-dealing — in the light facility with which
he transferred his affections from one object to

another, without seeming to regard the sacredness
of the obligation he had taken upon himself.
Esther knew perfectly well that his admiration
for Lina could not for a moment be dignified by
the name of love. She would have despised him
less, could she have believed him capable of
struggling against a genuine passion, even if he
should finally yield to it ; but this was just easy,
ignoble, trifling ; only his loose way of playing
with the most holy feelings, and letting them go
again a little defiled by his handling ; of indulging
his transient impulses without knowledge of any
deeper spring of emotion than gratification of
the desire of the moment. Lina and he — they
were both the same — they would have been well
mated. Oh, what a pity it was that they could
not marry and tire of one another as they would
inevitably do before the year was out !

All that Esther felt was expressed in her face,
as she closed the door behind her, and advanced
to where the two stood. George looked ashamed
and sheepish, but angry too. He was exceedingly
annoyed with Esther for her inopportune appearance,
but at the same time he was vexed with
himself, and with Lina for having betrayed him
into an exhibition of sentiment which placed him
in a false and uncomfortable position. To flirt
with Lina was all well and pleasant enough, and

there was no harm in anything he had said or
done. She knew what he meant; but to be discovered
by his wife, who did not know, in the
very act of flirtation was far from agreeable. As
for Lina, her cheeks were a little redder than
usual, but otherwise she showed no sign of embarrassment.
She had too keen a sense of the ridiculous
not to be inwardly amused at George's
discomfiture. She began mentally to concoct, with
a slight variation from the original, a version of
the episode, which should tickle the ears of the
Bishop — her father confessor — and she did not
care sufficiently about George to feel the position
tragic.

"I am sorry to have interrupted you," said
Esther, her voice deepened by contempt. " I
did not know that my husband was here, or I
would not have come in unannounced."

I don't know why you came at all," growled
George. "The horses had a long drive yesterday,
and you know that I don't like them taken
any distance without my knowledge."

*' That is so like a man," said Lina. He keeps
a pair of carriage-horses for his wife's benefit ; and
then grumbles because she takes them out without
his permission. Oh ! I hope that when I am
married I shall be allowed to go and see my
friends in my own carriage without being scolded

by the Bishop. Esther, you sweet, comforting
person, I am so delighted to see you. George
was getting quite, quite melodramatic, and you
know, my love, that my poor little soul is not
equal to melodrama. Level, commonplace solidity
suits it much the best. That bad boy really
presumes upon his cousinship to the most abominable
extent. Now, I appeal to you, dearest
as a wife. Would the Bishop's feelings have
been lacerated, or his digestion impaired, by the
sight of George kissing my hand ? Dear creature !
He has embraced my paws many times before
now " — looking down at her ringed little fingers
*but still one must try and grasp the position
from i\Irs. Grundy's point of view."

Esther looked at Lina in a bewildered way.
She did not know how to answer her. Then she
glanced at George with a quiet scorn in her face,
of which she was unconscious, but which he saw
and resented. As Lina turned her back under the
pretext of bringing forward a chair, he seized
Esther's arm so violently as almost to hurt her,
and whispered in a low, wrathful tone : " What

the do you mean ? I see that you are

working up for a scene, and I don't intend to
have one. Do you hear "? "

George," said Lina, '' that is right. Take
off Esther's jacket, and put her muff down.

And now, dear, come and rest your feet on the
fender, and we'll have some tea. Oh, how should
I exist if the tea-plantations failed, or if there
were a sudden collapse in the coal supply ? I'm
as bad as the old women in the work-house.
Give us our drop o' summit warm, Miss Lina,
and our bit of fire, and that's all the likes of
us wants to make us comfortable Are you
wondering how George got here, Esther ? "

No," replied Esther.

^' Easter has gone dead lame," said George,
recovering himself a little. ** It's all that fool
Will's fault ; I told him the horse wasn't fit to
go out to-day."

So, you see," continued Lina, " it was lucky
that you turned up, or George would have had to
borrow a mount for himself or his groom from
father. There's nothing makes the darling old
boy so edgy as being asked to lend a horse. He
resigns himself with Christian fortitude and an
air of 'sharing my last coat between us twain,'
but the martyrdom is painfully evident."

Lina rattled on, not at all disconcerted by the
silence of her guests. The faculty of small talk
is an enviable one upon occasions. Then there
was an interval of tea - drinking, and afterwards
George went out to the stables to inspect the
horses.

Esther' said Lina, when they were alone,
your entrance in that sudden fashion had
really a most tragicomic effect. Your great,
surprised eyes took in the tableau quite seriously.
Don't be serious, darling. Burlesque becomes
horribly dank and frosty when it is tortured
into melodrama. The Mrs. Grundy 7'6le does not
become you, you nice, abstract person. It is
George's way to be rather effusive, and if it
comforts the dear creature he is very welcome to
spoon me. We were brought up together, you
know."

Yes," said Esther, mechanically.

I'll give you leave to flirt as much as you
like with the Bishop, dear. It is settled, you
know. Mother went off this afternoon, brimful
of sacerdotal importance, to impart the news to
her choicest friends. Think of the privilege,
dearest Esther, of being mother-in-law to one of
the Lord's Anointed. . . ."

You see, dear," went on Lina, not concerned
at Esther's gravity — ** I'm rather like the princess
in a fairy story I read the other day, who had no
gravitation. It would never have done for a
flighty, ramshackly creature like me to marry anyone
but a person of weight — moral and physical.
Now no one can dispute that the Bishop, if
neither versatile nor brilliant, is sound. / shall

form our joint opinions, and my Lord will give
them forth to the world, qualified by a note of
interrogation of approval which will impart to
them a new commercial value. I think that I
can hear the Bishop remarking solemnly, *It
takes a long time before a young woman settles
down.' He'll say the same thing five minutes
later of a new importation of claret in his
cellar."

"Esther," said George, rasping, as he reentered
the room, " the carriage is ready, and
if you have finished your tea we had better start.
Another time I must beg that you will not take
the horses a long distance without consulting me
first. The bay is certain to be lame tomorrow.
Esther rose and put on her jacket, without
having said a word about the Hunt Ball, the
object of her visit. Lina kissed her affectionately,
gushed over her, and wrapped her upcoming
to the hall-door to see the start.

When they were alone in the brougham
George's anger burst forth.

*' What did you mean by creeping in upon us
in that sneaking fashion ? Why couldn't you let
the butler announce you ? "

I did not know that you were there," replied
Esther, in a high, hard tone — "and if I had
known it, I could not have supposed that you

would object to my coming in upon you unawares'


I object to prying of any kind," said George.
"I see that you are trying to ride the high horse,
but you are greatly mistaken if you fancy that
you are going to have everything your own way.
You have always been jealous of Lina Welby. I
believe that you came to Atherton on the extreme
sudden this afternoon, because you had an idea
that I should be there, and I call it sneaking
conduct."

Esther drew herself back into the corner of
the carriage ; her eyes glistened resentfully, but
she maintained a proud silence which irritated
George more than words.

Well ! Are you dumb ? Have you nothing
to say for yourself ? "

*' What should I have to say ? " cried Esther,
blazing round upon him with a passion of which
he had not believed her capable. "It is not I
who have to excuse myself. I should scorn
myself if I stooped to deny your accusation.
Do you think that / would pry upon you, and
dog you because I was jealous ? It is only low-minded
women who are jealous of men whom
they love, but when one does not even care ! Do
you believe that I could insult my husband by
suspecting him ? You goad me into speaking —

you make me despise you— you teach me to be
indifferent. . . Worse than that — sometimes to
hate you."

You mean me to understand," said George,
more calmly than she had expected him to
receive such a revelation of her feelings, and
this phase in his demeanour stung her to new
scorn ; " you mean me to understand that you
dislike me. Very well. If division comes between
us, remember that you were the first to
make it. As for what you saw to-day, — you
may go and proclaim it to the whole world,
for anything that I care. There is no harm in
my kissing my cousin Lina's hand, or her lips
either, for that matter."

I have not said that there is any harm'

Then why do you put on such confounded
tragedy airs ? I don't want to quarrel over
nothing. I am willing to forget what you have
said. Why do you keep aloof from me like that ?
Come, give me a kiss and make it up."

He put out his arm to draw her towards
him, but Esther made a movement of resistance,
and shrank further back into the corner of the
carriage.

Don't touch me," she cried.

You refuse to let me kiss you," said George,
with slow concentrated wrath.

VOL. Il N

Esther threw her hands over her face. " I
can't. Don't ask me."

George flung himself violently away from her,
and Esther trembled, frightened, yet powerless to
combat the feeling of repulsion, the same which
acid come over her in Eome. ^' Remember," said
George deliberately, whatever comes of this,
you only are to blame. It is you who have
always held yourself aloof from me when I have
wished to forget and forgive our little quarrels.
I have never borne malice, but you have always
been cold and resentful for days afterwards. I
don't reproach myself in the least. I have done
what I could to make you happy. I married
you as few fellows would have done, without a
penny, and with a stigma upon your name. I
have given you everything, and have sacrificed
my life to you because I was fool enough to
fall in love with you. I bitterly repent the
bargain, and I wish to God I had never seen
you."

The bold declaration, as it fell remorselessly
from George's lips, sent a shiver through Esther's
frame. The very worst that could happen had
befallen her. After this avowal she felt that
she and her husband could never assail live in
even the semblance of union. All their married
life had been a hateful mockery, and now the

mask had dropped off, and could never be reassumed
so as to cheat either of them into contentment.
Though Esther had told herself many
times, in moments of angry bitterness, that George
repented having married her, he had never in so
many deliberate words confirmed her suspicions.
All through, their frequent misunderstandings had
been followed, upon his part, by paroxysms of
remorseful tenderness which had somewhat nullified
the impression his violent wrath had at first
made. But now there could be no doubt to
dilute the bitterness, and as if to make assurance
doubly sure George continued :

It shows what idiots men are when they
allow themselves to be caught by a pretty face.
I had the whole world before me to choose from.
I might have married a girl who suited me, with
money and good connections ; and instead of that
I must needs pitch away all my chances in a fit
of sentimental folly, for the sake of a creature
picked up, as it were, out of a gutter — a creature
without even a name — the daughter of a forger,
whose mother was a "

As George pronounced the degrading epithet,
Esther uttered a deep cry like the last moan
of a goaded animal. " What do you mean ? " she
gasped. " What right have you to insult me so ?
It is brutal of you to taunt a woman — a woman

N 2

who cannot defend herself. But this is too much
My mother ! my dead mother ! "

There flashed through Esther's mind the recollection
of her interview with George beside her
mother's grave when he had offered to be her
friend, and she had accepted him as such, almost
believing him to be a messenger sent by heaven
to comfort her in her loneliness. A curious
current of sympathy, such as that which links fora
moment two minds in almost every respect
antagonistic, recalled the same scene to George's
memory. He saw Esther again as he had seen
her then, in her ill-fitting, cotton gown, slim and
childish, with her pale, dreamy, face and the tears
wet on her lashes, as she had sat upon the little
mound, her eyes turned towards the sea, while
the setting sun lit up behind her a landscape as
desolate and solitary as appeared the girl's own
life. George's impulses either of anger, remorse,
or tenderness followed quickly upon each other.
The words, " Esther forgive me ; I did not mean
to hurt you," passed his lips, but she hardly
heeded his apology.

*' I don't care what you say of me. You have
hurt me too deeply to make it of any consequence
how much more pain you give me ; but there
are some things which I cannot bear tamely. I
cannot hear my dead mother insulted. Only a

coward could have uttered such words. Retract
them at once, and tell me that you know they
are false."

They are true," said George, with the instinct
of self-vindication. '' I am sorry now that I said
what I did, but you angered me beyond control.
Perhaps now that you know what you are — what
your mother was — you may feel a little gratitude
to me for having given you a name."

Who told you ? " asked Esther.

*' The person who told me did not mean that
you should be informed. I suppose that I have
betrayed confidence ; but any one who knew me
would understand that I cannot bridle my tongue
when I am angry. I hate mysteries and concealments
and promises to be mum. It is all
utter rot. Things go much more smoothly when
people know their position. It was Lydyiard
who told me — before I married you. He is the
best authority you could have — for the simple
reason that your mother was his wife before she
became your father's mistress."

"Oh, hush ! " she exclaimed shrinking from the
bold statement, which seemed conclusive enough
to stab with a hitherto unfelt pain. " If it is
true, and you don't want to hurt me more, be
silent." She shut her eyes, and seemed to see in
her imagination the past all over again. It had

a new meaning now. In the immediate perspective
Lydyiard's interest in, and tenderness
to, herself ; the discovery of her mother s picture
in his room ; the vague hints in the letter, which
he had given her, and his words at the time.
And then, going further back — her mother s
patient bearing of her voluntary yoke — all the
suffering sadness and proud reserve in her manner,
and her face — the perpetual galling of past
obligations — the deep remorse. Everything that
had vaguely puzzled Esther before, became clear
to her now. " I am glad that I did not marry
Bernard," her heart cried.

The disgrace was deeper than she had dreamed.

George watched her, alarmed at what he had
done. Annoyed at circumstances — angry with
her — angry with himself — yet pitiful of her
evident pain, and remorsefully anxious to atone
by tender words, which, in her present mood, he
dared not utter. He was like an impetuous
child, who in a fit of rage has broken a toy with
which he has become provoked, and who contemplates
with dismay the wreck before him.

Esther sat still and silent in the corner of the
carriage, at first with her eyes closed, and when
she opened them, she did not look at him, but
turned her face away towards the dusky highway
with its lines of bristling hedge above which the

naked thorn-bushes rose at regular, monotonous
intervals. What was she thinking of ? George
at that moment would have given almost anything
to know, but he dared not ask.

'' Mousie," he said softly ; but she took no
notice, and he leaned back silent again, and let
his thoughts go slipping past his immediate
worry to the events of the day — the run — Roadster's
lameness, and the scolding he meant to give
Wills, who should have known better. What
does a gentleman keep a stud groom for, if it be
not to take accurate measure of the capabilities
of his horses '? His wrath against his wife was
all spent now. He was sorry and ashamed.
Had she been any one but his wife he would
have felt himself in an extremely awkward, uncomfortable
position ; but being his chattel, and
accessible to his personal influence, the quarrel
could not be irremediable. He would appeal to
her tenderness and wifely duty, and they would
make it up. He was sorry, bitter] y sorry, that
he had hurt her feelings by speaking disrespectfully
of her mother, but the words could not be
unsaid ; and when a thing was irretrievable, it
was George's way, after a fit of impotent wrath,
followed by remorse as inefficacious, to let it
slide past him into the misty shadows of memory.

The way was long, and the winter afternoon

short. It was quite dark in the avenue, where
the bare branches of the elms interlaced; and
the lights twinkling brightly in the windows of
Grately were a relief to his mind. It was like
dropping the curtain upon a harrowing melodrama,
and coming back to pleasant every day
life again. Nothing coidd have departed very
far from its usual course, with the immediate
prospect of his familiar butler opening the door,
and of a glowing fire, and luxurious meal
awaiting him.

By Jove I " he exclaimed. " I had quite
forgotten. I asked old Eyre to dine to-night.
'•' blouse," he said, as he helped her out of the
carriage, " how cold you are ! Curtis, get !Mrs.
Brand a glass of port wine before she goes upstairs."
The pet name came quite naturally with
the gush of reaction. He had almost forgotten
that he had said anything unkind, or that he had
been angry.

He stooped to feel the horse's legs, and asked
the coachman a question or two. " See that you
bandage the bay well," Esther heard him say, as
she went up the wide, softly-carpeted oak staircase.
Her maid was waiting in her bedroom,
and the firelight was shining upon the silver
ornaments upon her dressing-table, and upon the
satin gown laid out upon the couch for her to

put on. Her pretty, furred dressing-gown and
dainty slippers were warming before the fire.

I don't know whether I have laid out the
right things, ma'am," said the maid.

Esther smiled bitterly to herself at the grim
irony of commonplace, as though, in this phase
of mental suffering through which she was passing,
it mattered what gown she wore, or whether
a horse's leo^s were bandaged.

She put off going down-stairs till the second
gong had sounded, but Mr. Eyre was late, and
contrary to her expectations she found herself
alone in the drawing-room with her husband.
George was turning over the leaves of a Punch
as he sat in a large arm-chair beside a little table
that bore the softly-shaded lamp. Esther walked
up to the fire-place, and stood against the mantelpiece,
her face on a level with the Dresden china
figures upon it. Her eyes wandered aimlessly
round the desert of glass, gilding, china, and cold,
comfortless grandeur. This room had never
seemed to her like home, and the thought struck
her, how little it would cost to give it all up, and
to bury herself in some quiet place where she
would be free.

It was not that she craved the forest solitude
of her girlhood, or liberty to come and go how
and where she would. She had none of that

Bohemian longing for freedom of action which one
often finds in those persons who have breathed in
their early lives, an unconventional atmosphere ;
but she desired, with all the strength of her nature,
escape from those intangible moral fetters and
responsibilities which galled and held her down.
Could she not throw them off in a resolute effort
to blind herself to after-consequences ? Surely a
contract could be no longer binding when both
wished it dissolved. Had not her husband told
her in a few plain, deliberately-spoken words
that he deeply regretted having married her ;
and if this was his feeling, was not every crumb
she ate the food of dependence and degradation ?
Why should she not go "? If she left him of her
own accord George could never more throw in
her teeth that she, a bastard, a penniless, despised
creature, had no right to be a great county lady,
living in a fine house, and enjoying the material
good things for which she had been bought and
had not made an adequate return. She would
show him that she despised what he had given
her, and that poverty had no terrors for her.

George watched her over the pages of his
Punch, and wondered what was in her mind.
He could see that it was not moving in the circle
in which he would wish it to travel, and a vague
fear smote him that she was contemplating some

decided course of action. He began to have
some comprehension of the chasm that yawned
between them ; and he would gladly have cried
peccavi could he have blotted out the events of
the afternoon.

Hang it ! " he muttered to himself, '^ she
ought to know that I did not mean to give her
pain. Are you cold, Mousie?" he asked as a
preliminary to reconciliatory overtures.

**No," replied Esther.

You look white and cold. Mousie, I am
sorry that I annoyed you this afternoon. Won't
you forgive me ? "

His words touched no answering chord of softness.
In her present mood Esther would have
preferred him to be cold or angry. She could
not understand these rapid transitions from one
humour to another. It was inconceivable to
her that George should say designedly that he
repented his marriage without really meaning
his statement, and if such were the case, no after
apologetic words could nullify or alter it.

*^ You might have spoken more kindly," said
Esther quietly ; " but if what you said was true,
and I cannot doubt that it was so, there is no
need to ask my forgiveness. I feel," she added,
that I owe you much, that you were disinterested
in marrying me knowing what you did — that I

ought to thank you for giving me a name when
I had none — but you have made the burden of
my obligations too heavy for me. It would be
sweet to me if I could throw them off."

The door-bell rang and there was the sound of
Mr. Eyre's admission.

I beseech you," murmured Esther, hurriedly,
*' to leave me in peace for to-night. Don't come
near me ; don't talk to me ; I have borne much
to-day. I feel that I cannot endure more."

Mr. Eyre," announced Curtis ; and there was
the assumption of the mask again, the putting
on of company smiles and manners, like the
horrid tricking up of a corpse.

Esther did not wait in the drawing-room for
the re-entrance of the gentlemen, but left a
message, excusing herself on the plea of fatigue,
and retired to her own room. As soon as was
practicable she dismissed her maid, and locked
her own door, and that one which communicated
with her husband's dressing-room. As she sat
through the dreary farce of dinner, a resolve had
been shaping itself in her mind. George had
quoted Lydyiard as his authority. She could not
disbelieve his statement about her mother, and
she recalled Lydyiard's offer of help should she be
in perplexity or trouble. What greater trouble
could ever assail her than that in which she was

now ? She determined that she would go to Mr.
Lydyiard and ask his advice. She felt instinctively
that he would be upon her side, and that if
there where any moral right to be urged in favour
of her desire to quit her husband, he would aid
her to freedom. Freedom ! — that was now the
governing impulse in her mind.

She began deliberately to plan her mode of
action, calculating her husband's movements as
far as she knew them. Upon the morrow there
was a magistrates' meeting; at Woodchester. She
had heard him announce his intention of attending
it. This would necessitate his early departure
and late return. During his absence she would
leave Grately, and find her way to Mr. Lydyiard's
chambers.

So far her plans assumed definite shape ; but
after that her mind was blank, except for the
mastering longing for independence.

CHAPTER Viii.

About two o'clock upon the following day,
Esther found herself standing at the door of Mr.
Lydyiard's chambers. Everything had happened
as she had expected it would. George had left
her undisturbed, and had started to attend his
magistrates' meeting before she was up.

Soon after his departure Esther rose, and
ordered the carriage to take her to Coombe, their
station, to catch the up train to London at eleven
o'clock. Curtis looked surprised when his mistress
said quietly to him, as she made a pretence
of eating her breakfast: " I am going to London
on unexpected business. Give this note to your
master when he comes back ; " and the ladies
expressed some astonishment when Esther
intimated that she would not be required to
accompany her. She wonderingly packed a
small portmanteau with a change of linen, as her
mistress ordered. No evening dresses, and no

jewellery ! The freak was freely discussed over
the servants' eleven o'clock bread and cheese and
beer ; but there was no explanation offered.

In her note to George, Esther merely said that
she had gone to London for a day or two, asunder
the present circumstances she could not
feel happy at Grately. She begged that he
would not follow her, and promised to write at
greater length upon the morrow.

The housekeeper who opened Mr. Lydyiard's
door, informed Esther that her master was not in
London ; that he had been ailing for some time,
and had been ordered to Bournemouth for change
of air, and that she did not know when he would
return.

*' To Bournemouth ! " repeated Esther, blankly,
her heart sinking within her at this sudden
check to her plan of operations. She stood a
moment on the doorstep considering. ''I will
write to Mr. Lydyiard," she said, presently.
'will you please have my portmanteau taken off
the cab ? — and if you will give me your master's
address, I will go up to his sitting-room and
write my letter there."

The servant, a prim, neatly dressed person, did
as she was bidden, but eyed the forlorn lady
with some little suspicion. Esther had taken off
her gloves to get money from her purse for the

cabman, and the woman glanced at her left hand,
reassured by the presence of the wedding-ring.

'^ Oh ! " cried Esther, observing her hesitation ;
I forgot. Yoii don't know me. I am Mrs.
Brand, an old friend of Mr. Lydyiard's. You
need not feel uneasy at letting me in."

I beg your pardon, ma'am," said the woman ;
I remember having seen your photograph in
my master's room. He T\dll be sorry that you
are disappointed at finding him away. Will you
walk upstairs, if you please. Perhaps you'd like
to rest, and I can get you a cup of tea, or anything
you might msh for."

She led the way into the drawing-room upon
the first floor ; and while she lingered, setting the
fire alight and placing writing materials before
the newcomer, the door-bell rang, and she ran
down to answer the summons. Before Esther
had begun to write her letter the woman returned
with a pink paper in her hand.

There's no need for you to write, ma'am,"
she said. " I have this moment had a telegram
from Mr. Lydyiard. He will be back from
Bournemouth this afternoon about Rve o'clock.
And it's late for him to travel," she added, "with
his bad cough — but gentlemen are so careless
about themselves."

Esther was too much relieved to heed the

latter part of the sentence. Occupied with her
own trouble, she had barely taken in what the
housekeeper had previously said about Mr.
liydyiard's ill-health.

I am glad' she murmured ; " I should have
been sorry to miss him, and will wait here till he
comes."

Then she turned so pale that the woman inquired
: " Can I do anything for you, ma'am ? — I
am afraid that you are tired. Perhaps you would
like to lie down upon the sofa, and I will bring
you a glass of wine and a biscuit ; or in case you
have had no lunch — for one often forgets to eat
when one is travelling — I could get you something
more substantial if you wished."

Esther accepted the offer of the wine, but
though she had eaten nothing since breakfast,
declined any further nourishment. The housekeeper
arranged the pillows of the sofa, and
threw a rug over her feet, hanging about for
several minutes upon one pretence or another.
At last she went away, saying, " I have drawn
the blinds, but I am afraid you'll find the street
noisy. Mr. Lydyiard used to declare that he
liked the bustle, but even he finds it too much
for his head now ; " and Esther was left to herself.


Later in the afternoon a gentleman walked

VOL. III.

briskly up by the Embankment, and rang Lyd-
yard's bell. It was Bernard.

*' Has Mr. Lydyiard come back yet, Mrs.
Bridges ? " he inquired.

"No, sir," answered the woman who had admitted
Esther, and to whom Bernard was familiar ;
'but I had a telegram from him a short time
ago saying that he would be here this afternoon.
It was lucky it arrived when it did, for a lady
had come up from the country wanting to see my
master, and was just going to write to him. She
seemed disappointed at his being away."

A lady ! " repeated Bernard wonderingly, for
Lydyiard's circle of feminine acquaintance was
not extensive.

"Leastways, I hope she is a lady," said Mrs.
Bridges, correcting herself. '' She looked very
quiet, but one never can tell. I let her in, and
she is up in the drawing-room. Do you know
anything about her, sir ? She calls herself Mrs.
Brand, and I have seen her photograph in Mr.
Lydyiard's room. I don't knows whether she has
come to stay, but there's her luggage."

Bernard glanced at the modest portmanteau.
Is she alone ? "

Yes, sir ; not so much as a maid with her."

'* I know Mrs. Brand," said Bernard, the name
sticking in his throat as he uttered it. "She is

an old friend of Mr. Lydyiard's, and of mine.
It's all right. Did you say that she was in the
drawing-room ? I'll run up and see her. No ;
you need not come. I don't want to be announced."


He went quickly upstairs, the image of Esther
filling his mind, and the longing to speak to her
shutting out every other consideration. Some
women have the attribute of individualization in
the minds of those who have at any time been
interested in them. Esther possessed it in a high
degree. Bernard's heart could never, under any
circumstances, have beat so wildly at the prospect
of a meeting with Frederica. He did not pause to
reflect upon the possible imprudence of entering
Esther's presence unannounced. He only felt that
she was there, and that whatever might come of
the interview, he must see her.

Though Bernard's passions, when roused, were
stronger than those of most men, he was not
naturally impetuous, or prone to be carried away
by excited longing. He rather piqued himself
upon his cool reasonableness and self-control,
perhaps because he had never yet been severely
tempted. There was no question in his mind, at
the moment, of disloyalty to his betrothed. Had
he waited to deliberately analyze his feelings he
would have acted in precisely the same manner ;



for he would have told himself that it was weak
and cowardly in a man to shun a woman for the
reason that he had loved her, and that circumstances
had now made it impossible for him to
cherish his love.

He opened the drawing-room door softly. A
yellow fog was growing dense outside, and the
room seemed all in shadow except where the
coal fire shed a glow upon Esther's figure, as,
bending forward from the arm-chair in which
she had seated herself, she courted the warmth.

She had taken ofi" her bonnet and cloak, and
her small, pale face and tender outline of cheek
and throat were clearly defined against the red
lio-ht. Bernard had thought her changed when
they had last met at Atherton, but now she
seemed ten times more altered. There was a
furrow of pain between her brows, and a hopeless
droop at the corners of her mouth. Her eyes
shone larger and softer than ever from hollow
sockets. She had pushed away her hair from
her forehead, and one arm resting upon her knee
supported her chin. Somehow her very attitude
and expression conveyed swiftly to Bernard the
impression that she was in grief and perplexity.

Bernard approached her, and was standing
almost before her, ere she became aware of his
presence. She had been thinking of him, and

yet he was the very last person whom she expected
to see. Her nerves were in such a state
of tension that it was impossible for her to greet
him composedly. She gave a violent start and
rose trembling, uttering a cry of surprise : " Oh
Bernard ! "

He took her hand and looked into her face
with searching eyes, which seemed as though
they would read her heart. '' Something is the
matter, Esther. Something has happened. What
is it?"

"Nothing," she began nervously, trying to
recover herself. " I am foolish and easily startled,
and you came in so suddenly. I am waiting here
for Mr. Lydyiard. I came up this morning from
Grately. I wanted to see — to consult him."

Why Lydyiard ? " asked Bernard searchingly.

Esther felt that she could not bear his gaze.
She rose and moved away from him, but self-control
was more difficult to maintain when she
knew that he was looking at her, while she could
not meet his eyes. " I don't know," she answered,
with a kind of recklessness. ^' I suppose because
I have no one else. He has always been kind tome."


Her tone, perhaps because it was one unusual
to her, seemed to Bernard to put them at a less
distance from each other. He had had before.

the dividing sense of her marriage, which had
always brought up an unpleasant image of Brand
as a part of her spiritual consciousness with which
he could have no sympathy. He saw by her
face that she was in distress, and her manner
conveyed subtly to him that it was distress of
a kind which implied a less amount of self-restraint,
and a carelessness of what her husband
or others might think or feel. There was a note
of appeal in the way in which she said, " He has
always been kind to me," as though she had of
late found others less than kind. Had she
quarrelled with her husband ? This was the
thought which flashed directly into Bernard's
mind. Without having any exact data of facts
or conversation to go upon, Bernard had arrived
at the conclusion that George Brand was a
swaggering, empty-headed bully. That Esther
could have loved and married him, had infused
into his estimation of her a particle of contempt.
This had been partly effaced by the interview in
the conservatory at Atherton, but her broken
admissions then had left no definite impression
upon his mind, except that she was not happy.
For the first time, he had begun then to suspect
that she had had another reason than preference
for George, for refusing him — Bernard. Now he
felt almost certain that they had both been

victims to some necessity, real or imagined, which
had held them apart.

Esther," he said, ^* you speak as though you
were reproaching some one. I don't know whom
you have any right to reproach, or who has been
making you unhappy. Would I not have been
kind to you, more than kind, if you would have
let me?"

Esther was silent. There was a choking in
her throat as she struggled against the lono-inof to
lay aside all reserve, that was getting the better
of her. The craving she felt was not that of
a lonely woman to be assured of love. It was
rather a childlike yearning for sympathy and
support in her mental trouble and uncertainty.
It came across her with a kind of hopeless conviction
that it would have been better had she
been open with Bernard from the first, and allowed
him to choose what their lives should be. She
had utterly failed in the purpose that had governed
her. She had not made George happy as she
had intended. Bernard had not married Frederica.
She had only succeeded in heaping misery
upon herself, and in embittering two other lives.
Self-repression had borne no good fruit. Perhaps
it had been altogether wrong and unnecessary.
Life seemed a web of clueless endeavour. What
was the use trying to unravel it ? And all this

time, though she kept her face averted, she was
conscious that Bernard was looking at her with
questioning love in his eyes.

The silence lasted for several moments.
Bernard felt that he must break it, and he did
so with a reference to the subject that was
hateful to him. " Is your husband with you
in town ? "

'' No, " replied Esther ; " I came alone. I left
home suddenly. He does not know that I am
here. He does not know anything, except that
I am in London."

Do you return to-night '? "

I don't know. I don't know what I am
cfoinor to do."

Esther," exclaimed Bernard, ^' there is something
wrong with you, I am sure. Why should
you come up suddenly from Grately to consult
Mr. Lydyiard, unless you have quarrelled with
your husband; and if so, what is Mr. Lydyiard
to you ? Sir Emilius is the proper person to
give you help or advice, if you need it."

*'I cannot go to Sir Emilius," said Esther
slowly ; ^' I have no claim upon him. He would
not help me, or understand me."

Could not / understand you ? " said Bernard
suddenly. '* What is the use, " he went on with
some of his old imperiousness, "in covering up

your feelings, and trying to hide them from me ?
Surely you can trust me. Why should we both
be made wretched by your reserve, when I feel
that it is in your heart to speak ? Come ; be open
with me."

Esther still kept silence, her eyes fixed upon
the fire. Once she half-moved towards him,
and there crossed her face that sudden flash
which precedes self-revelation, but it died out
again.

"Perhaps I annoy you," said Bernard, shortly
and bitterly. "You misunderstand me if you
think that I want to force myself upon your
confidence. I had better go, and leave you to
yourself. You have never trusted me. You
were not open with me when candour might
have spared us both suffering. I would not
trouble you now, if your vague admissions had
not made me think that there is something in
the background which I do not understand ; and
if I could help feeling for you in a way that
makes you different to all other women in the
world to me. I am sorry to have to own it, but
it is so, and you must know it. But you areas
unreliable and inconsistent as the rest of
your sex. It is like a woman, to half-reveal her
trouble, and torture with indefinite avowals, while
with a Jesuitic sort of casuistry, she adheres to

the letter of her code of reticence. A man would
speak out, and put a stop to misunderstanding
and wretchedness."

I will speak out," cried Esther suddenly,
forced into looking at him. "Why should I
care what I say now ? If I was silent before, it
was from a feeling of loyalty — but, other people
are not deterred from giving pain by any scruple
of that kind. They do not mind ; why should
I ? Why should I try to be any better — any
different ? No one thinks of any one but themselves.
I see now that I only make people
miserable. No one understands. I don't. I don't
understand myself. It is not the giving up
that makes one's wretchedness, but the knowing
that those who are dearest misjudge ones
motives. I wish now that I had spoken plainly
that I had let you choose. If it was impossible
it would have been better that you should have
known that I that I did care."

Bernard put out his hands and caught Esther's,
and they stood facing each other with their
fingers clasped.

My own ! " he said very low, with a passion
in his voice that made it seem unlike Bernard's.
You were my own the whole time. I was not
mistaken. You had some Quixotic notion of
honour — of loyalty to the man you married —

which made you send me away '? Dearest, be
honest with me. Don't conceal anything now.
It is as though we were speaking to each other
over a grave."

I had promised him," said Esther, her hands
still in his, looking up at him in her childlike
way, with the tears beading her lashes, and a
suppressed sob in her voice. " I will tell you how
it was, as nearly as I can. I don't want to keep
anything from you. I had given myself to him
long ago — on the island. 1 did love him then.
I felt that it was wicked to try and loose oneself
from the past — from what one has taken upon
oneself — when it seems to cling round one and
bind one like a fate. I thought that a woman
ought to be true to one man. I remembered my
mother. You don't know her story. She was
false, and she was punished. I did not know
then quite chat she had been ; but it was enough
to make me afraid of being like her — of being
miserable, as she was. I thought that I could
make him happy — "

Esther paused, the sob in her voice breaking
it. Bernard pressed her hands.

It was not only of him and of myself that I
thought. There was something about another
person too : everything seemed to draw me away
from you. And you said — do you remember on

the bridge at Barwold ? — that you would not
marry a woman who inherited shame ; and I was
disgraced. You said that you had given up the
American girl whom you loved, because her father
had done dishonourable things — and my father
had been transported for forgery. He was a
drunkard. You said that a man had a higher
duty than mere personal pleasure. I did not
understand I could not reason, but I
wished to spare you the pain of deciding — again
I wanted to be true — to others . . . ."

Bernard drew her by his tightening grasp a
little nearer to him, and Esther went on, her
words following a mental sequence which he did
not understand, and her eyes downcast :

He knew it all — he did not mind. That
seemed to bind me more, so that I felt as though
I owed myself. I did not know what it really
meant — to be married — to belong to another
person, so that one had barely a right to one's
own thoughts. . I did not think that it
would be so difficult to do one's duty, and to be
loving. I tried, but I could not help being cold
sometimes, and that made him angry. It seemed
as though I were fighting against my very self ;
and he could not understand what I felt. It
was like being sold body and soul. . . . And
then when he reproached me for the little I had

given him, in return for all he had given me !
It was not that I cared for money or a fine house.
I had given him myself — and he thought he had
made a bad bargain, and was sorry that he had
not married — some one else — who had money,
and whom he liked."

Have you left him, Esther ? " asked Bernard
hoarsely. '' The coward ! the cur ! "

He was always sorry afterwards for anything
he had said to hurt me. He could not help
showing what he felt. There was justice, too,
in his reasoning. It is his nature to be angry —
to say things that wound and rankle, and then
to forget them."

'' Have you left him ? " repeated Bernard.

I want to go — I want to go ! " cried Esther,
with a fervour that bewildered Bernard's judgment,
and plunged him into a rushing tide of
possibilities. The " might have beens " of his
imagination changed into the dangerous, impelling
** may he's." Esther's next words scarcely
arrested him. "If it would be right — I will go
back ao;ain if I ouo-ht — if I must — but I feel as
though I could not bear it".

You have no need to bear it, Esther," said
Bernard. " There is a way of escape."

There was an eager child-like relief in her
face as sbe answered : " I feel as though I should

not mind what I did if only I could be free. To
wander without money or food would be better
than the inner knowledge that I was like the
wicked women who are bought. . . . Surely,
when he wishes that our marriage were broken,
there can be nothing to bind me. I should be a
sham and a lie in his house. I am doubly disgraced
— my mother — how can I say it ? I had no
name before he gave me his. My mother was someone
else's wife — she was not married to my father."

Bernard let Esther's hands drop, more in the
shock of surprise than from any personal recoil
from the revelation ; but she, interpreting his
action differently, sank into a chair and covered
her face.

You see it is what I said. I am disgraced —
I am not fit to be married to any one."

** Esther," said Bernard, "you cannot live
alone if you leave your husband. You must be
dependent upon some one."

I will not ask anything of Sir Emilius," cried
Esther ; " and I will not take my husband's
money. To eat bread that he had bought would
be to feel that I was still defrauding him."

** You are full of false pride," continued Bernard.
*you do not consider that in marriage
the question of material obligation is degrading
to both."

"Do I not know it ? Have I not felt the
bitterness of such degradation ? But it would
not be so with those who loved each other.
Love makes everything equal."

Bernard walked away from where Esther sat,
and stood at the window looking out upon the
busy street, which seemed every moment to grow
mistier in the fog. It would be wrong to say
that he was thinking. His mind had been
turned completely off its balance, and he was
no more able to grasp his own, or Esther's, true
position, than a free-thinker, in imminent danger
of violent death, is capable of analyzing, in an
elaborate process of reasoning, the scientific possibilities
of post-mortem existence.

Our dearest and loftiest theories have, when
confronted with passionate individual experience,
a humiliating knack of levelling themselves to
our desires. So now, Bernard, who in a calmer
mood would have ticked off a hundred reasons
not based upon religion or abstract morality,
against the expediency of running away with
one's neighbour's wife, felt inclined to fulminate
denunciations of the bondage of circumstance,
and the narrow dogmatism of a social creed,
which defined, with such unreasonable sharpness,
the relative positions of the sexes.

Frederica, and the new obligation which the

thought of her implied, did not rise to his mind.
She had not yet sufficiently incorporated herself
into his life to make her image felt as a determining
influence in a supreme moment like this.
Bernard's strongest impulse then was to go to
Esther, and ask her to share his life regardless of
everything else. A flow of entreaty and argument
rose to his lips. He raised his head with
that upward movement of his chin that expressed
with him irritated resolve, and advanced towards
her.

As Bernard approached, Esther looked up and
met the excited desire which his eyes expressed.
She had never before realized the meaning of
passion in its supreme phase. She had fancied
at those moments when she had revolted against
the ardent demonstrativeness of George's love,
that her insensibility was due to a peculiarity of
her idiosyncrasy, which made her colder than
the generality of women. She did not even now
comprehend the flame which was kindled within
her.

There was the sudden, bewildering revelation
of susceptibilities of which she had never dreamed
of a state of being in which she too might have
tasted those joys common to daughters of earth
to whom Fate had been kinder than to herself. . . .

Esther rose from her chair with a crv, and

almost staggered in her excitement at the glimpse
of unrealizable possibilities which had been momentarily
opened to her. It was the movement
of one who has been blind and who sees. . . . But
with the flash of comprehension came also the
keen sense of hopelessness.

Esther," whispered .Bernard, '* there is a way
of escape. . . . You have no ties which may not be
broken. . . . Nothing binds you to your husband
but your marriage vows, which are a mockery."

Esther looked at him with the startled gaze of
a child, which does not quite comprehend what is
patent to a more matured understanding. Then
her eyelids fell, and she crimsoned all over, the
blush spreading from her face to her neck. " I —
I cannot," — she said in a gasp. " There are ties
there is . . there may be — I — Oh ! I ama
woman I feel — I cannot."

Bernard had stretched out his arm to draw
Esther into his embrace, his passionate impulse
half-arrested by the broken words which fell from
her lips — half-inflamed by the deep blush which
overspread her face, and revealed the presence of
an agitating spiritual consciousness, new, and but
vas^uelv understood.

But the order of commonplace events, which
is so often a deterrent to individual action or
emotion, spared them both from self committal

VOL. III. P

and its after-consequences. Before Bernard had
addressed Esther the door-bell rang loudly, and
there was the confused sound of steps, and of
luggage being brought into the hall. It was only
Mr. Lydyiard's arrival, which, after all, had been
perfectly calculable. They drew apart from each
other and waited, listening, to the sound of a
laboured ascent, and then the drawing-room door
opened and Lydyiard entered, arrested on the
threshold by a violent fit of coughing.

Chapter IX.

MR. LYDYIARD AS PEACEMAKER.

Mrs. Bridges had followed her master upstairs
with an air of anxiety, and while he was
still in the paroxysm of coughing that had seized
him upon his entrance, she lighted the candles
upon the walls and the chimney-piece, replenished
the fire, and drew the curtains of the windows.

Oh, sir I " she exclaimed. " It is enough to
make anybody who has a care for your health
angry. You should not have travelled so late in
the day ; and then to come from the station in a
hansom with the windows up, and such a fog as
there is in the streets ! You'd like to kill yourself."


In spite of Lydyiard's reserved ways, he always
inspired affection in the breasts of those
who served him, and Mrs. Bridges, remonstrance
was full of genuine solicitude and alarm. He
waved her gently away and seated himself beside
the table, his eye falling for the first time on the
two figures by the fii'e-place.

p 2

Esther had not seen him since her marriage,
at which he had been present, and was shocked
at the alteration a year had made in his appearance.
He looked smaller, and more bent and
wizened than ever. The bones in his cheeks
were prominent. His grizzled hair hung sparsely
-over his forehead, and his eyes seemed to shine
out of caverns. She rushed to him and took
his hand, forgetting Bernard, her embarrassment,
almost her trouble, in concern for his health.

"Oh, you have been ill ! " she cried ; "and you
never wrote to me, or let me know that you were
suffering."

Lydyiard looked pleased at her interest, and
smiled upon her affectionately. " Why cast over
your young life, my child, the shadow of my age
and infirmity ? And you would not have understood
that T felt almost glad to be failing. There
was no need to trouble you. But I did not
expect to see you here — and Bernard Comyn too."
He glanced sharply and questioningly from one
to the other. " Has anything happened ? Why
are you here together ? "

'ewe met by accident," replied Bernard shortly.
"I had better go, and leave you with Mrs.
Brand."

Lydyiard turned to Esther. "Is there anything
wrong, Esther, with you or with your husband ? "

Yes," murmured Esther. *' I have come to
you to help me."

Lydyiard stretched out his hand to her with
an unwonted softness in his eyes. " It was right
of you to come to me if you are in any trouble.
I will hear it, and then we shall see whether it is
one that I can remedy. That is right, Bernard.
Leave us now. I will talk to you another time ;
come to me tomorrow. You have been disappointed
in your book. I knew that you would
feel so ; but failure is often the best medicine. You
had better go and let me talk with Esther alone."

Good night," said Bernard shortly. " I am
sorry to see you looking so ill. You ought to go
abroad." He took Estherss hand, and held it in
his own for a moment. His heart was full of
what he had been on the point of saying, words
which he knew now would never be uttered.
Lydyiard's appearance on the scene had brought
up before him the image of Fred erica, though by
what subtle chain' of affinity it was difficult for
him to say. Perhaps from the reason that they
two — Erederica and Lydyiard — represented in
his mind the world outside the circle of that passionate
desire, which a moment ago had almost
dominated him. A man's impulses ebb often as
rapidly as they flow, and in that short interval
Bernard's mood had changed from vehement

protest to numbed acceptance of the lot lie had
created for himself. He hardly dared trust
himself to speak, and yet he could not leave her
without a word. " You will write to me," he
said in a low, pained tone. " You will let me
hear from yourself what is decided for you."
It was on his lips to say : "It will be better for
you to go back to your husband." But he could
not say it. It was as though he was deserting
her. Something of this feeling was in Esther's
mind too. She was being forsaken, and left to
her fate. What it would be she could not foreshadow.
She had still the strong craving for
emancipation, but freedom did not now represent
that condition of being which her imagination had
pictured. Her future was entirely misty. She
hardly knew what shape she wished it to assume.
She was quivering and giddy from her late excitement.
There remained a glimmering consciousness
that her openness with Bernard — the outcome
of her need of sympathy — had been unwomanly
misleading. She had not had time to grasp
the revelation, which his passion, communicating
itself to her dormant sense, and fusing it into a
momentary vitality — had forced upon her. The
life of Ler passion had been brief, but its bewildering
effect remained.

Poor Esther ! The entrance of Lydyiard had

conveyed nothing to her intelligence of a crisis
in her fate. At that moment, the universe had
seemed only to contain Bernard — herself, and an
indefinite consideration, which had not shaDed
itself into a determining influence. She realized
that Bernard would depart, and her mind clutching
at his presence, she longed to retain him, yet
dared not look at him — dared not ask him to
stay. His very tone deepened her loneliness, for
it carried subtly to her understanding the sense
of division. "He knows," she said almost imploringly
to Lydyiard ; "he knows why I have
come here."

He 7?iust go ; " replied Lydyiard sternly.
Good night, Bernard."

Good night," said Bernard again, and left
them.

A few moments after he had gone, before either
Esther or Lydyiard had spoken, Mrs. Bridges
returned with a tray upon which was some bread
and a basin of soup. " You must drink this, sir ;
you look quite exhausted ; indeed, you are not fit
to talk."

Lydyiard smiled with that gentle seriousness
that seemed to have come over him. "Bring
another plate, Mrs. Bridges. This lady needs
sustenance as much as I do. You are looking
iU, Esther."

He made her sit down to the table and insisted
upon her eating and drinking with him. The
warm beverage revived her numbed faculties, for,
in truth, she had scarcely tasted anything that
day, and was weak from inanition and excitement.
The commonplace consideration of food,
restored her composure, and brought her back to
herself. " And now," said Lydyiard, when they
had finished, drawing his chair nearer hers, " tell
me what is this trouble to which you referred''

In broken words, and in much the same
manner as she had related it to Bernard, though
entering upon some points with necessarily fuller
detail, Esther told Mr. Lydyiard the story of her
married life. He grasped the meaning which
she found it so difficult to convey in words, and
comprehended the wretched tissue of unsuitability
and misunderstanding better than Bernard
had done. " You want to be free," he repeated,
when she paused. " Poor child I You want to
be free. You want to escape from your bonds.
I understand why you shrink from your husband.
I understand why your two natures will not
assimilate."

He smiled when Esther went on to tell him
of the visit to Atherton, and the scene she had
witnessed between George and Lina Welby.

It was not that I was jealous, or cared in

that way," said Esther hurriedly. " I had a contempt
for him and for her. I would scorn to be
jealous ; but you don't know how terrible it is to
feel that you are indebted — when you do not love
when you wish to be free — when you are goaded
and reminded that you have given nothing in
return. And I know now," she went on in a low
voice, with her eyes downcast, " that I owe him
everything — even my name. That was why I
came to you. He said you had told him — about
my mother."

** He said so," exclaimed Lydyiard, starting
in surprise and wrath.

"It was after I had seen him with Miss "VYelby ;
when we were driving home — and he was angry.
I had said that I despised him. I think I said
that I hated him — I did hate him at the moment.
Then he told me. I don't think he meant
to hurt me as he did. I think he was sorry
afterwards. He wanted to make it up, and he
asked me to forgive him."

He has broken his word," said Lydyiard.

"He said that he was betraying confidence.
I am sure that he was sorry ; but he does not
think what he says when he is angry. He is like
a child in some ways. He said that he hated
mysteries and concealments. I think that he
was risrht. It would have been better if I had

known — long ago — if it is true. Mr. Lyd3dard,
it is true ?"

Yes, it is true," answered Lydyiard ; " and I
told him before he married you, because I thought
that it was my duty not to let him do so with
eyes blindfold. I put the position before him,
and he chose to go his own way."

Lydyiard sat for a few moments in silence, and
she waited for his next words. " He asked you
to forgive him," he said, at length, "and you
refused ? "

I said that if it were all true, I had nothing
to forgive. He could not make things different
There seemed nothioo^ left me but the lononnor to
escape — to free us both. I could not tell what
to do — I felt powerless, and I was so wretched.
I thought you would help me for my
mother's sake, and so I came to you."

Lydyiard smiled bitterly. "It was like
George Brand, to buy his toy without reflection,
and then to crush it in a fit of petulance, because
he fancied that he had given too high a price for
it. And now that it is broken, he vnll want it
back again, and will be ready to cry like a
spoiled child over what he has done. But I
don't want you to judge him too hardly. When
I warned Brand of the cost of a marriage of
which he had only taken into consideration the

desire to possess what he coveted at the moment,
I could have prophesied that he would regret his
sacrifice. You must know, Esther, that it would
have seemed a sacrifice to many men. His conduct
was disinterested upon the surface, and he
is generous up to a certain point. If he is
wanting in sensibility, he imagines others to be
as blunt of feeling as himself. A Cochin China
fowl which fails to comprehend the instinct of a
lark to soar, is hardly to be blamed. George
regards life from his own material stand-point.
You, from a transcendental height to which he
never could attain. In such rarified air, temperaments
like his could not exist. You must
descend to his level, and try to divest yourself
of the fine susceptibility which makes your
misery."

Do you mean," cried Esther, stricken by the
sudden fear that he also was going to misapprehend
and turn against her, "that I must go
back to him, and harden myself against his
taunts and reproaches for having marred his life.
Am I to eat and drink, and try to be happy in an
animal kind of way, without minding anything
else ? Oh ! Mr. Lydyiard, let me free. It is all
I care for. I don't want his money, or his
position, or any of the fine things he has given
me. I don't even want his name. Let me be

myself — just Esther — free. Don't say that I
must go back."

Esther," said Lydyiard, with a deep seriousness
in his voice, as he looked at her with his bright,
searching eyes — " your mother also craved freedom
from a husband whom she hated, but she
sought it in the embraces of a lover. You do
not love George. Is there any one else whom
you do love ? "

Esther blushed deeply, but did not shirk the
question. " I did not love my husband when
I married him," she said in a low voice. " There
was some one else whom I did love, but I sent
him away, because I felt myself bound by my
old promise — and for other reasons. My father's
disgrace, and another reason, which seemed to
make it impossible for me to become his wife.
I thought then that it would be easy to make
George happy. I did not realize what my
married life would be ; how I should writhe
away, as it were, from my very self, and hate
myself. I — oh ! I can't explain ; a woman cannot
tell any one what she feels about such things ;
not even to another woman. It is not that I
wish to leave my husband because I love another
man. To go from one to another, even if the
other — if it were possible, would be shameful —
revolting — I — there are feelings one cannot put

into words — that one can barely understand —
I am weak— I love — I — but I am not like that.
You must believe that I am not like that. I am
not weak as my mother was — or wicked. I can
withstand that temptation."

There was a touch of scorn in Esther's voice as
she thought of her shattered girlish idol, that
moved Lydyiard to wrath. "Esther," he said
sternly, *' when T, the husband she betrayed, do
not condemn your mother, it is not for you, her
daughter, to do so. Your natures are different.
She was not, as you are, passionless enough to be
pure."

Oh, forgive me," cried Esther ; " I did not
mean to judge her ; but you can hardly understand
how bitter it is to me to learn now the
true story of her life. She was the angel of my
childhood — I always thought of her as sinned
against, but never sinning. I loved her for
having clung to my father. I loved her for her
noble patience ; and then when I imagined that
she had broken her word to you in order to
marry my father, it was the thought of her
sorrow and remorse that helped me to be true to
George. I seemed to hear her voice, bidding me
be loyal to the past — I thought that her spirit
was with me but I was mistaken — nothing
was of any use. I was wrong she was wrong."

Listen to my version of the story," said
Lydyiard ; "all that I mean to tell you now. I
married her when she was only seventeen, knowing
that she did not love me. I fettered her young
fresh life against her will, and she was of a nature
to struggle, and fret, and resent the unmanliness
which conferred obligations upon her, and called
upon her to discharge them by giving up herself.
She was left penniless and friendless, and I, in
my position as Rector of the parish in which she
lived, rendered her pecuniary aid which afterwards
galled her sorely. You see, Esther, it was
in part your own experience. Some day — when
I am dead, you shall know the particulars of our
married life — but I cannot bear to talk of them
now. I was, at the time of our marriage, a
clergyman of the Church of England, harassed
by doubts and speculations with which she had
no sympathy ; for, setting aside her youth and
lack of culture, she was an emotional, rather than
an intellectual, woman. You know what it is
to live in jarring and dissonance ; to shrink from
caresses which are hateful ; but you do not know
how repugnance on the part of the wife, embitters
a husband's love, and changes it almost into
resentment. She rebelled against my efforts to
mould her to my way of life and thinking ; and
instead of encompassing her with gentle care till

I had gained her heart, or at least, her esteem,
I shut myself up with my books, and left her to
fret and chafe as she would. She could not
guess at the smouldering passion which burned
my heart, and made my life a torture instead of
a joy. It was not wonderful that in her undisciplined
youth, hating her bonds, she turned
from me to your father, who had all the advantages
of good looks, artistic tastes, and devotion
to her whims, and of whose real character she
knew nothing. Oh, Esther ! think well over your
mother's fate, before you decide upon taking your
life into your own hands."

*' But it is not as my mother left her husband
that I wish to leave George," pleaded Esther
insistently. "Between you and her it was all
different. You loved her, and would have made
her happy if you had been able ; but George is
tired of me, and sorry that he married me."

You think so," said Lydyiard. " You believe
that George meant seriously what he said upon
an angry impulse ; but I am sure that you are
mistaken. Have I not told you that he is like a
child, and changes from one mood to another as
readily ? You are his wife, and have had better
opportunities of studying his character than I
have ; but, my poor Esther, you are wrapped ina
kind of transcendental egoism, which makes it

impossible for you to enter into the workings of
those dispositions that are in the least antagonistic
to your own. You have no power of seeing through
the window of another consciousness. Your own
nature is passionless and elevated, but it has no
warmth of human sympathy. This is what you
must try and cultivate. You do not know your
husband. George is hot where you are cold. He
is material where you are abstract. He has all the
faults of an impulsive disposition, and a few of the
good qualities. He is susceptible to affection, and
by a woman who knew her business, might be
moulded into a sufficiently decent pattern of a
husband. It is your misfortune to be united to
such a character, but you must adapt yourself
to it. In the crucifixion of your individual
temperament, you will find the highest joy of
renunciation. Your martyrdom will be its own
monument."

I would change myself if I could," said
Esther, with a childlike submission, and a sort
of sob in her voice — *' I will try to bear if you
think I ought — I want to be good — I would be
different if I knew how — if I understood what
I ought to do. If I could examine myself, and
find out where I had been at fault."

Don't try to examine yourself Try rather
to escape from your tendency to introspection.

Make the lives of others your starting-point.
Look outward instead of looking inward, from
the point where externals affect your individual
emotions. Throw yourself resolutely into interests
and pursuits which have taken no hold
upon your sympathies, and which you have
allowed to slip listlessly past your intelligence.
I am speaking of your adaptation of your temperament
to that of your husband. You must
humanize yourself : you must put a blunt edge
upon your susceptibilities. There will be jarring,
and variance, and crises in your mutual
relations apparently as serious as this one.
That will be part of your discipline. You
will never touch the key-note of perfect harmony,
but you have it before you to strive
for, as the true artist makes a religion of ideal
excellence . It has often come into my mind,"
continued Lydyiard thoughtfully, " that this
dim trace of a system of order that wee see pervading
every phase of existence — though ever
where it is incomplete and broken up — suggests
its realization elsewhere, and is the strongest
argument in favour of a perfect unity outside
the standing ground of consciousness."

Esther had never before heard Lydyiard speak
in this way. It was almost as though the unknowable
region to which he was drifting, had

VOL. III. Q

cast its shadow over him already. She looked
into his face with a kind of awe, discerning a
new spirituality in his expression. Her sense
of helplessness and bondage deepened, with the
feeling that he was going beyond the immediate
circle of her needs. A sob escaped her
lips, and she exclaimed : " Oh, I want to be
free ! I want to be free ! "

Lydyiard turned at her voice. '' Esther,"
he said gently, 'have you ever thought how
it would change the current of your life if you
had a child ? "

Esther reddened, and a soft tremulousness
crept over her face, but she said nothing.

We had a little child once," said Lydyiard,
your mother and I ; but it died when it was a
baby. If it had lived she might not have left
me. It would have drawn us together. I have
often thought of the little thing, Esther, when I
have looked at you."

The few words so simply uttered brought more
vividly before Esther's imagination the pathetic
picture of Mr. Lydyiard's desolate life, than pages
of emotional description. He had had a wife
whom he had passionately loved, who had deserted
him ; a child, which had died. Esther
bent forward and kissed his hand, the tears
gathering in her eyes.

You are fond of me, Esther," said Lydyiard.

*' I do love you ! " she cried. " Oh, if I could
only have made you happier ! "

"My life has not been unhappy," answered
Lydyiard ; " not altogether. It has been lonely,
it is true, but I have laboured for humanity — to
what end I know not. I trust for good. I
selfishly marred one life, and its ghost has
haunted my peace ; but I have sought, by
helping the poor and mistaken to bear their
burdens, to make the debtor and creditor account
even. There is my colony," he added thoughtfully.
" Those men whom I sent to Mundoolan
Island were the leaders of strikes and the helpers
in mischievous, so-called free thought, movements.
They were clever and well-meaning menin
their way ; but their perverted minds worked
nothing but evil. I placed them in a new field,
and they seem to be doing well. My colony has
been a source of satisfaction to me, though I
could have wished to do much more. It would
have been a happiness to me could I have seen
my settlers again before my death."

You are not going to die ! " exclaimed Esther.

Yes, child, I am dying. I should have gone
abroad this winter, had I wished to prolong my
life, but I had work to keep me in London. 1
doubt whether I shall live through another year.

Q 2

I am sorry to leave you, dear, now. Though I
have known comparatively little of you, I have
always loved you, and have hoped that you might
be happy. To see you in trouble is a grief to me.
It is part of my debt to smooth your life as far
as I am able. Esther, you would not wish that
your husband's life should be embittered by
remorse as mine has been ? "

No, no*' cried Esther ; " but George is not
like you. He could never feel as you have
felt."

You cannot judge. Human nature has capabilities
which there is no predicting. After your
mother left me I had a longing for revenge. I
could not have foretold that I should ever feel
tenderly towards her, or towards her daughter.
I would not even give your father the option
of righting her by suing for a divorce. You
see that the whole current of my feelings has
changed. . . ."

Lydyiard was interrupted by another fit of
cousins:, which left him at the moment comparatively
helpless. He pointed to a bottle of
soothing drops which the anxious Mrs. Bridges
had placed upon the table, and motioned to
Esther to pour him out a draught.

"I am better now," he said presently, "but
we must not talk much more at present. I

want to reserve all my strength for tomorrow,
when I mean to take you home."

Home ! " repeated Esther blankly.

Yes," said Lydyiard with decision. " Grately
must continue to be your home, unless George
of his own free will gives you permission to leave
it. You have incurred a responsibility which
you cannot shake off merely because you find
it heavy. You have no right to deny George
the opportunity of retracting a few hasty words
which he may now deeply regret. And even, if it
were otherwise — should he wish you to leave him,
you cannot free him from his yoke. Marriage, in
the existing order of society, is not a contract
which can be broken by mutual consent. You
and George have undertaken duties towards each
other which you cannot annul."

I said that I would be guided by you," said
Esther, in a helpless way. " You are wiser than
I am. I said that I would do what you thought
was right."

"It is right that you should go back to your
husband. You may ask him whether he wishes
for a separation."

Esther sat for a few moments in painful
thought. " Since you say that I must go back,
I will do so," she said at length ; " but there must
not be any mediation. I will see him alone and

will tell him what is in my mind. He shall do
what he thinks will be happiest for himself."
Lydyiard leaned back almost too exhausted to
reply. "Oh ! cried Esther, 'all this is bad for
you. I ought to leave you."

There is something to be done yet," said
Lydyiard, rousing himself. " I must telegraph to
your husband, or will you ? "

I would rather it was sent in your name."

*' Very well ; write at my dictation. You will
find forms upon that table."

Esther did as he bade her, and filled in as he
directed.

'' From William Lydyiard, London.
To George Brand, Grately.

Your wife is with me. I bring her back tomorrow
— " " When do we arrive ? " asked
Lydyiard.

There is a train from St. Pancras at 12. It
reaches Coombe at 2.40," said Esther.

Meet the 2.40 train from London," dictated
Lydyiard. " That will do, and now will you
ring ? "

The telegram was despatched, and there then
arose a question as to where Esther should pass
the night.

Mrs. Bridges declared that there was no room

in Mr. Lydyiard's lodgings fit for Mrs. Brand's
occupation, and her master, she added severely,
ought not to be worried any more that night.

I will go to Miss Talmadge," said Esther,
the idea striking her. " I should like to see
Frederica. I am glad I thought of it. It will be
better, too, for you to be quiet."

Mrs. Bridges looked relieved, and called a cab,
upon which Esther's portmanteau was placed.
Esther bade Mr. Lydyiard good night, arranging
to meet him at St. Pancras the following
morning, and then drove off to Magenta Terrace.

Only the window of the basement parlour was
illuminated, as Esther's cab stopped at Miss Tale
house. There was the usual withdrawal
of precautionary bolts, and the face of Aunt
Theodosian herself, appeared at the aperture.

*' Bless me I " she exclaimed, as the candle she
held in her hand revealed Esther's pale face and
slender figure. '* It's Mrs. Brand. You'll excuse
my opening the door myself, my love, but I
thought it wisest in case of burglars — and you
never know what may happen, with valuables in
the house. You have come to stay the night.
Well it is providential that the bed in the guest-room
was aired yesterday, in preparation for the
visit of Emily Talmadge — Frederica's sister — my
dear ; but a letter came this morning to say that

she had caught the mumps, and of course I could
not allow Frederica to run any risks just now.
She was anxious enough to have her sister ; but,
as I said. ' My lose, it is not only yourself to
whom the duty of care for your appearance is
owing ' — and Lady Susan Starkie once had the
mumps, and they gathered and had to be lanced,
and left a scar for life."

'' What is it ? " cried Frederica from behind.
*' Oh, Aunt Theodosian, is it really Esther ? Esther,
come in out of the cold. I am so glad to see
you."

And the cabman," said Miss Talmadge, as
the two girls rushed into each other's arms.
*' He is waiting for his money. Give me your
purse, my love. These men always want to
impose. From Norfolk Street, Strand — that is
two shillings — and nothing extra for the portmanteau.
It was inside. I saw it with my
own eyes upon the back seat."

The man crumbled something about the for.

"Stuff!" exclaimed Aunt Theodosian. *that
is your fare ; so take it and be thankful to a
merciful Providence for sending you one at all
such an evening as this. Are we to pay for the
fog, in addition to having it crammed down our
throats ? Not that it is a question of money, for
this lady has her own carriage to drive about in.

and a footman on the box into the bargain — but
if there's one thing that irritates me it's being
imposed upon."

Now my love," continued Aunt Theodosian,
after she had shut the door with a bang — " the
little maid shall carry the portmanteau to the
guest room, and you must come downstairs.
You know our ways, Esther, and that it is not
worth while lighting the fire in the drawing-room
when we are alone, and especially as the
chairs are peppered and covered up. I had such
a fright, my love, the other day ; I thought that
the moths were getting into my sofa. We won't
light the fire, my love, then. Coals are remarkably
dear this winter, and Egyptians went down yesterday
; and we shall require our spare cash soon,
eh, Frederica ? and as your husband is not with
you — I trust that Captain Brand is enjoying good
health. It is a remarkable coincidence, my dear
Esther ; but as I remarked to Frederica : ' There
are few people of any consequence with some of
whose connections I have not been at some
period of my life on terms of acquaintanceship
or intimacy, and Viscount Coniston was quite
an old flame of mine — in my visiting days.' "

Esther allowed herself to be led, or rather
pushed, down the narrow stairs. Miss Talmadge
talking the whole time behind her, and Frederica

with the candle held aloft, a few paces ahead,
looking, as she turned at the foot and faced her
friend, Esther thought, prettier and happier than
she ever remembered to have seen her.

The table was laid for tea. The kettle simmered
by the grate, and the second-best salver, with the
Talmadge and Glencairne arms in high relief,
shone resplendent upon the sideboard. The funny-little
pictures and brackets were still on the
walls, and the small ottoman-box in which Miss
Talmadge kept her best' table cover, "ready to
pop on, my love, in case any one should come in
unexpectedly," was upon one side of the fireplace.
There stood the old cracked piano, with a piece
of Frederica's music, that Bernard had been fond
of, on the desk, and the morocco-covered chair, a
little browner than of yore, in the corner. It
seemed to Esther as though she had passed
through years of painful and exciting experience
since all these things had been so familiar to
her.

'^ Now, my dear Esther," said Miss Talmadge,
Frederica and I were just going to sit down to
our tea, for, as you know, my love, we make ou:
dinner at one o'clock, but with you it is different ;
so it was with me in the days when I lived with
dinner company — but, my love, there is a beefsteak
pie in the larder. The crust is lovely, and

cuts as crisp as a pastry-cook's. I made it myself,
aud a veal cutlet which is delicious with a
squeeze of lemon, and could be cooked for you ina
moment ; and perhaps, as you are accustomed
to a hot meal in the evening — "

"Dear Miss Talmadge," said Esther; "let
me have some bread and butter ; indeed I want
nothing more."

Now really ; do you mean that, my love ?
Well, I know that after high living plain fare is
often a pleasant change, and the dear friend of
my youth. Lady Susan Starkie, used often to
assure me that the sauces and made dishes she
ate at the Marquis of Trenton's — her brother —
were enough to poison any one. The cooks in
grand houses have no conscience. Well, my love,
if you like bread and butter, this is aerated bread
which could not injure any one's digestion, and
that is butter from the Reformed Dairy Company,
and is a little cheaper than what you usually
buy, but is excellent. Now, wouldn't you take
an egg ? — there is a great deal of sustenance in an
^gto' especially if you swallow it raw ; or the
cutlet — I assure you that we are quite accustomed
to providing something substantial upon occasions,
now that we have a gentleman in the
family, so to speak."

Oh, Aunt Theodosian ! " cried Frederica, with

a deep sudden blush. '' Let Esther rest and have
her tea, and then no one must tell her but I."

Tell me what ? " asked Esther. '' Have you
got a studio, Frederica ? — or a dozen orders [for
portraits ? — or a new master ? — or — are you going
to be married ? "

My dear," said Aunt Theodosian, '^ a Glen-carne
has never died single for the want of
asking ; and I always said from the very first,
that Mr. Comyn, though not quite so finished a
gentleman — "

Bernard ! " interrupted Esther, a sudden
suspicion which became speedily a certainty
flashing across her. '' What has Bernard to do
with it ? Oh, Frederica ! — you don't mean that
he — that you — why did you not tell me ? "

It only happened a very few days ago, dear
Esther," said Frederica, drawing closer. **I wrote
last night, but you must have left home this
morning before the letter arrived. Yes; it is true,
Esther, that he cares for me. I don't know what
I have done to deserve such happiness. Oh !
what is the matter ? Are you ill ? " — for Esther
had slipped away from her, and had fallen
fainting upon the floor.

CHAPTER X.

AN IMPERFECT UNION.

Esther lay awake almost all night, crushed by
the mental excitement she had undergone, but
with the tension of her nerves still too great to
allow her to sleep.

The sudden tidings of Bernard's engagement
to Frederica had touched her in a manner which
a few months, or even weeks ago, she could have
hardly believed possible. Had the announcement
been made to her in the regular series of
events, when the ordinary course of her home-life
had held out no prospect of any violent upheaval,
she could have borne it with a less keen
pain; but now that her whole existence seemed
out of gear, and her emotions strung to their
highest pitch, by that subtle intoxication which
had almost carried her out of herself, it came
upon her with a numbing shock that left behind
a dull pain and half-listless disgust.

Her interview with Bernard that afternoon,
though fraught with poignant suffering, had yet

had for her an indescribable sweetness. His
expression and manner had conveyed to her the
assurance that she was still deeply loved, and she
would have been something less or more than
woman had she been indifferent to the knowledge.
The passionate longing and half-resolve,
which had been in his eyes, though she had
barely understood it, had thrilled her with joy.
And now it seemed to her that all men were alike,
and that love meant only with them the turning
from one pretty face to another as the fancy took
them. It was like the shattering of her most
secretly worshipped idol, the levelling of that last
altar upon which she might burn the incense of
her faith in man.

Esther turned upon her pillow with a moan,
such as one is apt to utter when weary with a
gnawing pain. Then she took herself to task
for her selfish inconsistency, and half-hearted
renunciation. Had she not given up Bernard to
Frederica long ago ? Ought she not to rejoice
now in the culmination of her sacrifice, instead of
being meanly resentful of her friend's happiness.
Surely it was but a petty, dog-in-the-manger
selfishness that could grudge to those she loved,
a joy that was beyond her own reach, and of
which she could not take to herself the merit of
voluntary resignation.

Frederica came into her bed-room before she
herself went to bed, just as in the old days
when Esther had spent her holidays at Magenta
Terrace. She tucked Esther up, and lingered,
with that feminine longing for the interchange of
confidence, which, now that Esther was married
to her first love, and she, Erederica, engaged to
the man of her choice, seemed so natural between
them.

Oh, Esther ! " she said softly, blushing at the
same time — '* isn't it wonderful that he should
care for me ? And then to think that from the very
first I should have set him apart, as it were, from
all other men. It must be a great joy to a wife to
feel that she has never loved any man but her
husband," Frederica went on, unconscious of the
stab she was inflicting — •" and that is the happiness
which you and I, dear Esther, must always have.
It is like you and George. There must be a fate
that brings people who love each other together."

Poor Esther turned her head away with an
involuntary cry of pain. " I must not talk to
you, dear," said Frederica. " I'm afraid that you
are overwrought and nervous, and that you have
done too much to-day. Shopping is so tiring,
and I suppose that was what you came up for.
We have had no time for talking, and I must
not keep you awake any longer. You must be

very careful, dear Esther, now," added Frederica,
with a little blush. For Aunt Theodosian, with
her usual facility of conviction, had settled satisfactorily
to herself the cause of Esther's sudden
fainting fit, and had communicated her notion
to her niece.

There is one thing that I must tell you before
I go," said Frederica, as she moved on tiptoe
round the bed, smoothing the pillows and shading
the night-light. " He says that I am to have a
studio built on purpose, and to go on just the same
with my work. We shan't be very rich, dear;
and it is such a happiness to feel that I may be
able to help. While I am painting he will study
and write. He thinks that husbands and wives
should have interests beyond mere every day
pursuits. You know he always said that his
wife must not be a household drudge or a pretty
toy, but a companion. I am so thankful that
we like the same things, and that I know something
about music. Not that I am intellectual,
or a companion fit for him, dear Esther ; but he
thinks me good enough ; and at least I shall be
able to sympathize and admire. Now I must
not talk any more. Good night, dearest ; I hope
that you will be rested tomorrow."

Upon the following morning there was but
little opportunity for mutual confidence between

the girls, for Esther came down pale and wearied,
and was obliged to submit passively to being
fussed over by Miss Talmadge ; but just before
her departure she drew Frederica aside and kissed
her, whispering: '' I could not tell you last night,
dear, that I was glad of your happiness — but
indeed, indeed I am. Oh, Frederica! you will
make Bernard happy because you love him, and
his content will be your joy ; but don't expect too
much, dearest. Sometimes marriage is difficult
life is difficult — and we have to be satisfied
with less than we expected."

Have you found it so, Esther ? " asked Frederica,
looking at her earnestly.

*' One expects too much," said Esther confusedly,
thinking of Lydyiard's lessons. " We
think — some of us, perhaps — that everything is to
be in tune to us ; and we don't try to adapt ourselves
to our lives. They would be less difficult
if we were different. Oh it is hard — it is hard —
to wake up too late ! I want you to give Bernard
a message from me," she added, hurrying on to
the subject that was weighing upon her. ^' Tell
him that I sent it by you. It is ' Good-bye ' ;
for I don't think that I shall see him for a longtime.
'

You will come to our wedding, dear Esther,'
said Frederica. "The time is not quite fixed

VOL. III. R

vet ; but I do not think it will be very long
before we are married."

No, no," exclaimed Esther, " I could not ;
that is, I do not know where I may be. Tell
Bernard that I could not write now, but that I
will by-and-by; and that I hope and pray that
you and he may be happy together."

Esther hastily pulled, down her veil, for the
tears were starting to her eyes. Frederica wondered
at her agitation, but attributed it to her state
of health, and to the fatigue she had undergone.
The two girls clung to each other and kissed as
though they were parting for a long while. Each
had the inner consciousness of a new life dawning
before her ; and felt that neither would be quite
the same when they should meet again. Then
Esther departed in the four-wheeler which the
little maid had called from round the corner.
Miss Talmadge stood upon the doorstep and
Vv'aved an impressive good-bye.

•'•' Adieu, my love. My kindest regards to
Captain Brand, and you will be sure to tell him
that I was intimately acquainted with his late
uncle, Lord Coniston, in my visiting days. And
Esther, my dear child, allow plenty of time, and
make the man drive gently ; and the fare is half-a-crown
at the very most — with the portmanteau
inside."

Lydyiard, looking very frail, and smothered in
wraps, was waiting on the platform ; and the two
travelled down to Coombe together almost in
silence. There were other people in the carriage,
and Esther felt it impossible to talk upon ordinary
topics. At the station the brougham from
Grately was waiting, and the coachman touched
his hat as his mistress appeared. This simple
act brought Esther back, as it were, to everyday
life. The tragedy seemed to have settled down
into commonplace ; and a chasm yawned between
the experience of to-day and that of yesterday.
She could hardly believe that scarcely more than
twenty-four hours had elapsed since, in a state
of mental and physical high pressure, she had
quitted her husband's house.

Mr. Lydyiard pressed Esther's hand sympathetically
as the carriage drew up at the front
door. She was white and trembling at the
thought of meeting George, but the hall was
empty save of the servants, and as Curtis respectfully
opened the carriage door, he said :

*' I think, ma'am, that my master is in the
stables. He went out a few minutes ago, to look
at a new horse ; shall I let him know that you
have arrived ? "

No," replied Esther, with a sickening sense
of gratitude for the respite. " Don't interrupt

R 2

Captain Brand. When lie comes in, tell him
that I am in the boudoir. You would like to goto
your room," she said, turning to Lydyiard, who
was coughing in the doorway. " Oh, come in —
pray don't stand in the draught. Curtis, which
rooms have been prepared for Mr. Lydyiard ? "

I believe the blue rooms, ma'am."

"You would like some luncheon upstairs,"
continued Esther ; 'rit will be better for yon
than coming down again. You must rest all
the afternoon. Let something to eat be taken to
Mr. Lydyiard's room at once — some soup, and
chicken, and jelly ; tell Mrs. Horner it is for an
invalid." Repeating her orders, Esther herself led
Lydyiard upstairs to the blue rooms, and made
him lie down upon the sofa in a little sitting-room
adjoining them — arranging the pillows
for his head, and fussing about the blinds, as
much in nervousness as in solicitude. '' How
o-ood you are to me ! " she murmured, returning
ao-ain to his sofa : "no one else would have
come when they were so ill."

Lydyiard looked up at ber with great tenderness.

Nay ; it is you who are good. Esther, I
almost wish that you might be with me till I die,
but for your own sake it must not be so. ]\Iy
child, be gentle and submissive to your husband.
It is your duty."

Esther kissed his forehead silently, and left the
room. She went downstairs again, and entered
the boudoir, the most homelike part of the house
to her. Brand was standing by the mantel-piece
with his hands in his pockets, looking moodily
down at the hearth-rug. He had returned from
the stables while she had been upstairs with
Mr. Lydyiard. Esther advanced, trembled, and
hesitated. He looked worried and anxious. In
truth, he had been sorely harassed since, upon
returning the night before, he had found her
note and Mr. Lydyiard's telegram awaiting him.
He had suffered a good many pangs of remorse.
The evening had been very dull. There had been
a disagreeable letter from his banker by second
post. Everything had contributed to his annoyance,
and he had missed his wife more than he
could have believed possible.

Esther had half expected that he would greet
her with a storm of reproaches and anger, but
George's moods were somewhat incalculable.
He looked up almost indifferently.

*' Well ; so you have come back ! *'

Yes, George," said Esther, faintly.

What did you go away for ? You had no
business to leave home without letting me know
your reasons. How was I to know what had
become of you ? "

I told you, in the note I left for you, that I
had gone to London."

"What does that mean? London might be
anywhere. Making a fool of me — letting me
come home to find you gone — and setting the
servants talking ; I call it damnably cool."
George walked up and down the room in a quick,
irritated way, and then stopped again at the fireplace.
"Mousie," he said, in a gentler tone,
why did you go away without telling me ? You
must have known that it would annoy me. Did
you do it on purpose ? Was it because you were
angry with me, or what ? Oh, hang it all ! Let
us have done with this. I can't stand it. I was
perfectly miserable last night — ate no dinner,
and never slept a wink. And I have got an
infernal headache this morning, all through
bothering about you, and worrying over money-matters
and things. Let us have done with this
sparring and wretchedness'

'george," said Esther, "I want to have done
with it ? "

"It's deucedly unpleasant," continued George.
*' I don't know why we are always having rows.
Other husbands and wives live happily together ;
why should not we ? I'm sure I don't want to
quarrel. Come and give me a kiss, Mousie, and
let us make it up for good and all."

George," said Esther, trying to speak calmly,
though in fact she was struggling against rising
sobs — " I can't make it up like that. You seem
to think that cruel things may be said and done,
and that then our married life is to go on as
though there had been no bitterness in it ; but I
am different to you. What I feel deeply does
not glide from my mind so easily. The wounds
remain and rankle, and T cannot help shrinking
with dread lest you should hurt me in the same
way again."

'' I don't mean to hurt you, Esther. You
should not take to heart what I say when I am
vexed. I don't think of it afterwards."

I must tell you everything that is in my
mind," continued Esther, "and you shall choose
for yourself. I wanted to leave yoa. I could
not bear the feeling that I was a burden upon
you, and that I made you miserable. I could
not bear your taunts and reproaches. I hated
my marriage. I hated myself. I think that I
have sometimes almost hated you. I wanted to
be free — and to free you from my presence. 1
thought that you would be happier if I went
away from you altogether ; and I went to London,
to Mr. Lydyiard, There was no one else
whom I could ask to help me. He has always
been kind to me. He loved my mother. I knew

that he would tell me the truth. I felt that I
had been deceived in everything; in you, in
myself, in my mother. Everything seemed blank
even Heaven, for I think of her as being there.
All my longing was to escape — from my marriage,

from you. I felt degraded. And then

There came the feeling that if I had married differently,
I might have been different — I might
not have been unloving — as you say I am
But I struggled. I said that I would do as Mr.
Lydyiard bade me. You know that I want to be
good. I never meant to come back again, but he
made me. He told me that it was forsaking my
duty, and that it was Wrong and unfair not to let
you decide. He said that I could not do away
with our marriage, and that I had no right to
settle our lives without your consent. So I have
come back."

Of course you have come back' interrupted
George with ironical anger. " What else could
you do? It was all very well to leave me in
high tragedy fashion; but a night's reflection
must have shown you on which side your bread
was buttered. Of course you could not live
apart from me without my consent and without
money, and I had the law on my side ; not a
jury in England could have forced me to give
you a maintenance."

"What am I to say?" cried Esther passionately.
'' You loll misconstrue me, and attribute
low, mean motives to me. How can I make you
understand? I hate your money — and this
house — and everything my marriage has brought
me. To be free and independent, even if I had
to starve, is all I care for."

Then go and starve," exclaimed George,
and be independent. I don't want to hinder
you. It will be cheaper for me than keeping
you here. Go and starve or work. You'll soon
wish yourself back again. I'm hanged if I do
understand you."

Esther turned proudly away. '' Then you
consent to our being separated."

Oh, if you like," replied George. '* I don't
propose it, remember. It is your doing. You
are to blame for whatever comes of it. If you
like, you may go ; only understand that you
don't get a penny from me'*

He turned round and looked down into the
fire, with his arms resting upon the mantel-piece,
and his head upon them. Esther stood by the
table, her heart swelling, her lips quivering. He
had said that she might go, but she did not know
whether or no he meant his words. It was impossible
that she could leave him so. If she did
so, she must feel all her life afterwards as though

she had taken advantage of the wrath of an impatient
child. She stood motionless, debating
within herself, not daring either to advance or to
retreat.

George looked sharply round. *^ What are
you waiting for ? You want to leave me. Why
don't you go."

George," said Esther faintly ; " you are
deciding: both our lives."

Oh, d — n our lives! " cried George. '' I have
nothing to do with it. I don't care what becomes
of either of us. You said that you wanted to go,
and I won't keep you against your will. What
is the use of caring for a woman, and making a
sacrifice for her ? One gets nothing but ingratitude.
. . I bought a new horse this morning —
for you, so that 'you might have the carriage
when you wanted it. What was the use of it ?
You don't care how much I think of you, or
try to please you. . . You had better go, and
have done with it all."

'' I will," cried Esther, with difficulty keeping
herself from bursting into a fit of hysterical
crying ; '' but I can't part like this. We have
been husband and wife. George, don't let us part
in cano-er. If we both think that we are unsuited

o

to each other, and that we had better separate,
at least don't let us say good-bye in anger."

At her pleading words, and the break in her
voice, George lifted his head. His own tones
were tremulous.

*' I never said that you were unsuited to me,
Mousie. I don't want you to go. I don't mean
to be unkind to you. You think that I don't love
you because I don't understand you. If you
liked we could be happy together ; I am sure
that we could, if you would forget everything
that has passed."

Esther looked up at him with a doubtful longing,
mingled with hesitation, in her large eyes,
evident through the mist of o^atherino^ tears.
George, though not apt at reading such dumb
language, saw her impulse towards him and her
irresolution. Her helpless perplexity, and the
large drops that had begun to fall, touched the
softest part of his nature, and brought the moisture
into his own eyes. He was at her side in a
moment, and pressed his handkerchief with a
boy-like awkwardness against her eyelids, wiping
away her tears, and trying to still the gasping
sobs which shook her.

*dont cry, Mousie," he said huskily. 'what
is the use of crying ? I mean to be good to you.
Don't be afraid and unhappy. I'll promise never
to say anything unkind to you again. Don't cry.
It is because you are tired and hysterical. I

can't bear to hear you sobbing ; it makes me feel
such a brute. I'll go and get you a glass of
wine."

He made her sit down, and ran to the diningroom.
Curtis was not there, and the cellaret was
locked. It was like George to ring the bell
violently and scold the butler when he appeared.
'' Confound you I — why don't you leave the thing
open ? " and then he came back to the boudoir
with a glass of port wine in his hand, spilling it
in his anxiety, and almost irritating Esther by
his efforts to pour it down her throat. " It is
only because you are tired and hysterical," he
repeated, anxious to bring down her emotion to
a physical basis ; *' and you want some luncheon.
That is an abominably awkward train from St.
Pancras, for luncheon."

At that moment the gong sounded. " Come,
Mousie," said George. " You are all right now ;
aren't you ? Then let me wipe the poor little
eyes. The servants must not see that you have
been crying, or they might think we had quarrelled."


George laughed in his light-hearted resilience
as though the matter had been an excellent joke,
and tenderly taking his wife upon his arm led
her into the dinning-room.

It was all bewildering to Esther. Tragedy

and drawing-room comedy seemed unaccountably
mixed up together. She found it difficult to
realize that only a few moments ago she had
been contemplating the desperate step of separating
herself from her husband, now that they
were sitting together at luncheon as though their
lives had never been inharmonious, with Curtis
behind her offering her cold chicken, and Geordie
overwhelming: her with lover-like attentions. A
kind of helpless stupefaction came over her — a
sense of having played at melodrama and taken
it for earnest. All her outraged pride and
wounded sensibility was to go for nothing. She
had simply taken-up existence from a lower level ;
and George's handsome face opposite her, from
which the lines of anxiety had been smoothed
with wonderful rapidity, and which brought
vividly before her the remembrance of their first
meal together upon the island, was henceforth to
represent the apex of her aspirations.

'' Where is Lydyiard ? " asked George suddenly.
*' I thought he was with you."

"He is upstairs," replied Esther. "He must
rest quietly this afternoon. He is very ill. It
was most kind of him to bring me down. He
has a shocking: cough, and I am afraid that he is
failing."

111 ? " repeated George. " I am sorry to hear

that. He is a good-hearted fellow, is Lydyiard.
But he'll be down to dinner, I suppose. You
are eating scarcely anything, Mousie."

I am not hungry," replied Esther, the hysterical
tears rising again.

I want you to come out and look at the
new horse," continued George. " You did for
Easter's legs that day, Esther. The long drive
to Atherton was too much for him. He was dead
lame the next morning. But women have no idea
how to treat horses. Adhere is your cloak, dear ?
Shall I get you one ? "

I think that I would rather not go out to the
stables now," said Esther, longing hysterically to
be alone, and wounded by his allusion to Atherton
which she thought tactless and unnecessary.

George looked disappointed. " That is always
the way when I want you to do anything. I
thought that you would be interested in a new
horse that I was buying expressly for you ; but
you never care to do what I like."

I will come," said Esther rising, with feeble
desperation. It was a very little thug, but the
sense of bondage had begun already. George
wrapped her cloak tenderly round her, and she
followed him into the stable-yard, and tried to
awaken a languid interest in the new purchase.
Lydyiard, whose window looked out towards the

stables, saw them in the distance standing together,
Esther drooping and tremulous, her
eyes most often on the ground, and George addressing
the grooms in a lordly manner, though
Lydyiard could not hear his voice, as the horse
was walked and trotted before him, and every
now and then turning with a remark to his wife.

They went on to look at the new stalls which
were being added to the former accommodation.
It will cost a lot of money," said George,
moodily — " this cursed improving ; I wish that I
had never gone in for it. I don't think I told
you that I had had a letter from the Bank about
the overdrawing of my account. I am thinking
of selling one of the outlying farms at Degly ;
but there's a difficulty about that, in these bad
times, and the farmers are clamouring for lower
rents. It is a confounded bore being so hampered
for money. I wish — "

** What ? " cried Esther sharply, her nerves ina
state of strained expectancy which demanded
even the food of irritation.

Oh, that somebody would die and leave mea
fortune," said George. " I know what you
thought was coming out, Mousie, but I am never
going to say that again."

The afternoon was waning before George
would allow Esther to leave him, and then

she felt it impossible to go to Lydyiard and
communicate the result of her interview with her
husband. She sent her maid with a message to
ask if he twas better, and to tell him the dinner-hour,
and then lay down herself upon a couch in
her dressing-room. Worn out by fatigue and
mental excitement, she fell asleep, and was only
awakened by the sound of the gong, and by
George as he bent over her with the intimation
that it was time to dress for dinner.

George was considerably shocked at the change
in Lydyiard's appearance when they met in the
drawing-room. " I am sure it was very good of
you to bring Esther down; but, good Lord, how
ill you look. I'm afraid you weren't fit for the
journey."

It will not hurt me," replied Lydyiard,
stifling his hollow couo^h. *' I am a little tired.
I travelled up from Bournemouth yesterday."

Esther pressed his arm with a tender significance
as he took her in to dinner. Of course
nothing: was said before the servants of the late
domestic difficulty. George talked about the
season's hunting, the agricultural depression,
and the dulness of the midland counties in
March and April, and announced his intention of
going shortly to Paris, and taking his wife with
him. " It will do us both good," he said. " My

liver is out of order, and Esther wants stirring
up. It's an early Easter this year, and there's
always plenty going on in Paris after Lent."

"You had better go to bed, Mousie," he said,
as she rose after dessert. " You look like a
ghost, and Lydyiard and I shall have a good
deal to say to each other."

I suppose," began George, when she had left
the room, helping himself to claret, and looking
a little awkwardly at Lydyiard as he passed the
decanter — "I suppose Esther told you that we
had had a slight difference before she went to
London ; but it is all made up now between us."

No more wine, thank you," said Lydyiard.
"I was surprised to find," he added, looking
George straight in the face, with both anger and
condemnation in his eyes, " that you had broken
your word, given me before your marriage, not
to repeat to Esther what I had told you about
her mother."

George flushed. " What do you mean ? " he
said, evasively.

You deliberately broke your promise," said
Lydyiard.

I don't think that a promise given like that,
before marriage, ought to be considered binding,"
said George. " Circumstances alter cases. It is
impossible to keep a secret from one's wife — it is

VOL. iir. s

bound to come out sooner or later. I don't see
how a man could live with a woman, and have
words with her, as all husbands and wives do,
without a thing like that cropping up — and I
hate mysteries. It is not my way to bottle
up what I think and feel. I am always saying
things which I regret afterwards, and I regret
this. I am ready to allow that I was wrong. I
am confoundedly sorry about the whole affair."

You remember our conversation in the
billiard-room at Atherton," said Lydyiard. " I
fancy that my judgment of your character then,
was more correct than your own. I foresaw such
consequences of your marriage, and warned you
of them. You have been married scarcely a
year, and have already repented of your bargain.
You have nearly driven your wife from you —
you have estranged what affection she felt for
you, have galled her pride, and wounded her
sensitive feelings by making it evident to her
that you regret your choice."

I may have said a few hasty words," said
George, speaking hurriedly and uneasily ; "but
Esther knows that I always forgot them immediately
afterwards. I did not mean to hurt her
feelings. It is a bore to have such a sensitive
wife. All fellows are irritated sometimes, and
ready to think they might have done better for

themselves. She was foolish to take up anything
I said in a moment of annoyance, as though I
really meant it. A man who has married a
penniless girl, can't help feeling sometimes that
heiresses are not to be despised, especially if he
is harassed about money-matters, as I have been
of late. But you are mistaken if you think that
I really repent my marriage. I am as fond of
Esther as I ever was, and what I said to her
about her mother would never have passed my
lips if she had not, a few moments before, told
me that she did not care a rush for me. A man
can't stand that sort of elinor from a wife for
whom he has sacrificed everything — as you know."

And when he has just given her full reason
to believe that she is a distasteful encumbrance to
him," said Lydyiard, drily. "A wife, even if
she be not violently in love with her husband,
must be super-human indeed, if she can look on
calmly while he is flirting desperately with
another woman, whom she knows he has once
thought of marrying."

'' Oh, Esther has told you all about Atherton ! "
exclaimed George. " Upon my word she seems
to have made a clean breast of her troubles.
You don't know what it is, I suppose, Lydyiard,
to be shut up with a fascinating girl, about whom
you have always been a little sentimental, whens

2

you are slightly at loggerheads with your wife ?
Lina Welby is going to be married to the Bishop
of Woodchester, and I shan't have the chance of
flirting with her again ; Esther may make her
mind easy on that score. Not that I want to
flirt, or that there was serious meaning in anything
I said or did. I have kissed Lina's hand
a hundred times, and have made pretty speeches
by the score. She understands perfectly that I
have only been half in earnest. She is a very
pretty little thing, and I was always fond of her ;
but as to comparing my liking for her with what
I feel about Esther, that is absurd."

I am glad to hear you say so," said
Lydyiard. *' You relieve my mind of a weight.
A third person, George, who interposes himself as
peacemaker between husband and wife usually
finds himself in a false position, but I think that
I have a right to speak."

Say what you like, Lydyiard ; I shall not be
annoyed."

Esther's happiness is dearer to me than that
of any one else in the world. I should like to
feel satisfied about her future before my death."

'you are not going to die, old fellow," exclaimed
George. " I am sorry to see you with
such a horrid cough ; but surely a winter abroad
will set you right."

I shall not live through another winter,"
said Lydyiard gravely. **I mean to go abroad
next month, but I feel certain that I shall never
return. That was my principal reason for bringing
back Esther myself. I wanted to have a
few words with you. I am closing my career ;
you are almost at the beginning of yours. You
know that the early part of my life was embittered
by an unhappy marriage ; but you can
hardly realize how deeply all the rest has been
saddened by remorse. I have told you how
I came to marry Esther's mother. Had I, having
selfishly fettered her young life, tried to win her
affections by patient tenderness, the end might
have been different. Do not give yourself the
same cause for self-reproach. I think that you
love Esther in your heart."

I do," cried George, touched by Lydyiard's
earnestness. " I would do anything now to
make her happy."

"Then try to win her to you by gentleness
and consideration of her peculiarities. Don't expect
too much from her. She is easily touched,
sensitive, and yearning for sympathy. Tenderness,
not passion, is what she craves. She has
not the power of loving fiercely, but her affection
is better worth gaining than that of most women,
for her nature is deeper. Her pride is easily

galled, and you have gone rough-shod over her
sensibilities. You have much to retrieve. She
is smarting painfully now under the notion that
you married her in an impulse of passion, which
has died out, and that you repent what you have
done, on account of her poverty, and the stigma
upon her birth. You have made her dependence
bitter to her."

I am sorry," cried George, with eager contrition.
"You know that I did not mean to
wound her. I will do anything I can to make
amends."

You can only do that by gentle tact, and by
showing her in every way possible, that you
prize her for her own sake. You well in future
have no cause to regret having married a penniless
woman."

What do you mean ? " asked George.

You gave me to understand just now," said
Lydyiard, without directly answering him, " that
you were embarrassed for money. Is it so ? "

Yes," said George. " In fact I hardly know
where to turn. My uncle left me the estate in
such a manner that I cannot mortojao^e, and can
only sell a portion of the outlying land at Degley,
which is worth next to nothing now. I suppose
that I have been going too fast. I'm hanged if
I know what has become of my year's income.

This is a deucedly expensive place to keep up.
Marriage is expensive. Hunting is expensive.
And I have been making some improvements,
which I wish I had never begun. It seems tome
that everything one cares to do, and a great
deal that one doesn't like doing, costs money.
There were outstanding debts when I came
into the property, and the farmers haven't half
paid up. Thompson, the lawyer, is always at me
to retrench, and I had an unpleasant letter from
the Bank yesterday. I am thinking of shutting
the place up, and then I shall have to live in
some piggish hole abroad for a year or two. I
suppose that I must raise money on the estate
somehow."

*' Have you any objection to telling me what
amount it would take to clear you, and to carry
you on for a year at your present rate of expenditure,
without making any allowance for improvements
or needless extravagance 1 "

o

George drank another glass of wine, and
thought for a moment or two. "Thompson
could tell you directly, but it is difficult to
calculate offhand what one's expenses are. My
over draft is £5000."

"Then £9000 ought to clear you, and cover
every outlay. I will give you a cheque, tomorrow,
George, for that sum. Don t begin to thank

me. I am not so generous out of pure consideration
for you. I think it would do you a
great deal of good to be obliged to economize ;
but I don't want Esther to suffer, and it is only
forestalling by a little what she would do herself.
This is what I wanted to tell you. I determined
some time ago to make your wife my heiress.
When I die she will have everything I possess,
with the exception, that is to say, of a sum set
apart for the benefit of my colonists upon Mung
Island, and several smaller amounts for
other purposes. The remainder will be no inconsiderable
fortune, though perhaps hardly equal
to what Miss Welby will bring her husband. As
long as you and Esther live together, you will
jointly enjoy the interest. Should you be separated,
she will have the control of her income.
The principal will be settled strictly upon her,
afterwards to be divided equally among your
children. In the event of there being no children,
Esther will have the power of willing it as
she pleases."

I cannot thank you sufficiently for your
generous present," began George. " I hardly
know what to say — how to express my "

"There is no need to say anything," replied
Lydyiard. "You may perhaps think that I
have placed too much power in your wife's

bands ; but these are my intentions, and I was
anxious that you should know them before 1
leave Norland. I have a conviction that I

o

shall never return. I think that we understand
each other, George. My great desire is to secure
Esther's happiness. Her future is confided to
you, and I have more trust that you will deal
with it kindly than I had a year ago."

Lydyiard held out his hand, his bright, feverish
eyes fixed searchingly upon George's face.

George took the outstretched hand, and pressed
it with fervency. *' You may trust me."

** And now that we have had our talk," continued
Lydyiard, *' I will bid you good night,
for I am tired after my two days' travelling."

A glimpse at the married future of Esther and
Brand Avould not perhaps reveal a condition of
perfect inward accord. Life would not be what it
is, if two antagonistic natures, starting with an
entire divergence of thought and temperament,
could in a short time develop into a state of
complete harmony. As Lydyiard had predicted,
there has always been, and will be to the end,
between husband and wife a faint jarring of
discordant notes, a lack of sympathy in much
that appertains to the inner lives of both.

The shy reserve of a spirit that is nervously

afraid of being misunderstood, and conscious
of its own sensitiveness, holds Esther a little
aloof from the outer world. She seems to be
unconsciously making a tacit protest against the
materialization of her aims and feelings. The
somewhat Jesuitical tact which she finds it necessary
to exercise in smoothing Brand's wayward
humours clashes with her love of truth ; while,
upon his side, there is an impulsive inconsistency,
an absence of any recognized standard of
right, or reliability of character, a constant demand
upon the forbearance and generosity of those
nearest him, and a want of delicate consideration
for others, that makes domestic relationship with
him something like dealing with a fractious
undisciplined child whom it is unpleasant to
contradict.

George has never held the key to his wife's
truer sensibilities, but they seem a fairly attached
couple ; and as, with time, children have been born
to them, and have cemented their mutual interests
more closely, their union has acquired all
the semblance of happiness. Material existence,
thanks to Lydyiard, runs upon well-oiled wheels,
and this is a circumstance likely to go far in
securing Brand's satisfaction with the world and
with himself.

Of his eldest child, a boy, George is intensely

proud, and passionately fond. He is a fine,
manly little fellow, and his father's companion
out of doors, but Esther's heart is more wrapped
up in a lame girl, who is sensitive and dreamy-eyed,
and resembles her mother in features.

Lydyiard left England soon after his first and
only visit to Grately. He grew gradually worse,
and died at Cannes, in the winter of the same
year.

Not long ago, on the occasion of a musical
festival at Woodchester, I met the Brands at the
Bishop's Palace. Bernard and Frederica were
among the guests also. Bernard has grown stout,
and is slightly dogmatical. He takes vigorous
exercise every day, after a morning spent in
literary labours which yield him a fair income.
Frederica is a little more matronly, and certainly
more attractive. She does not paint much now,
except in the matter of art decoration for her
home. Her children follow each other far too
rapidly not to interfere with the practice of her
profession, but she does not miss it, and is apt
to say that a woman has sufficient to occupy
her mind in her own home-circle without any
extraneous interest. She has one of her sisters to
live with her — the other is with Aunt Theodosian
and is a devoted mother, and extremely grateful
to her husband for submitting kindly to adoration.

Lina makes an excellent wife to the Bishop ;
and though it is always necessary to make allowances
for her, she is, on the whole, very popular
among the clerical society in Woodchester. The
Palace is noted for its dinners, and for the
social atmosphere which pervades it.

"My dears," said Mrs. Prendergast the other
evening — " I find the bosom of the Church a
most comforting haven. 1 know, you nice, romantic
persons, that you are inwardly thinking mea
frump ; but I hope I shall never become so
clerical as to dislike salt with my egg — figuratively
speaking — and 1 can preside cheerfully
over any number of county functions, if only I
may be allowed to have my fun out of them
afterwards."

THE END,

LONDON : R. CLAY, SONS. AND TAYLOR
