Si

^MW

liSiililimiiK;-:i::i:i;

i[fi:

I iiiliir :;ii!i;-^^

,■ i'»;i<-If

.ft;<^'

MfU!

lei

him

•.FVf»

;it^f

i-.,yKi

K .- 1'. Ill'- >,it;ii

:i, '

m

}r<

.z^mmmk

■**

I.

BY

OUIDA

ra

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

ITk^ right of translation is reserves]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

CNJ

V.

CO

Guilders,

CHAPTEE I.

Lord GuiLDEROY had written a few pages of
an essay on the privileges and the duties of
friendship.

'Friendship is generally cruelly abused
by those who profess it,' he had written with
much truth. ' It is too often supposed, like
Love, to carry with it an official right to that

kind of candour which is always insolence
There can be no greater mistake. The more

^ intimate our relations are with any one, be it
in friendship or in love, the less should we
strain the opportunity to say impertinent and
disagreeable things. Intimacy does not absolve

from courtesy, though it is so often separated

^ from it by the unwisdom and the impetuosity
fbf human nature. Indeed, there is even a kind
■>of meanness in taking advantage of our entry

r VOL. I, B

4>

■^

into the inner temple of the soul to leave good
manners outside on the threshold. Abuse of
all privilege is vulgar, and the privileges of
friendship, as they are without prescription and
left solely to our own judgment, demand an
infinite delicacy and forbearance in their exercise.
There are many moments in friendship,
as in love, when silence is beyond words. The
faults of our friend may be clear to us, but it
is well to seem to shut our eyes to them. It
is doubtful if fault-finding ever did any good
yet, or served to eradicate any fault against
which it is directed. Friendship is usually
treated by the majority of mankind as a tough
and everlasting thing which will survive all
manner of bad treatment. But this is an
exceedingly great and foolish error. Friendship
may be killed, like love, by bad treatment ;
it may even die in an hour of a single unwise
word ; its conditions of existence are that it
should be dealt with delicately and tenderly,
being as it is a sensitive plant and not a roadside
thistle. We must not expect our friend to
be above humanity. We need not love his
defects, but we should forbear to dwell on
them even in our own meditations. We should

not demand from him what it is impossible he
should give. A character can only bestow that
which it possesses. Time and absence are the
enemies of friendship, as of love ; but they need
not necessarily destroy it, as they must destroy
love. For love is so intimately interwoven
with physical joys, that without these it cannot
exist eternally; but friendship, being an immaterial
and intellectual affection, ought to be
able to endure without personal contact, and
to outlast even the total separation of two
lives .'

Having written thus he rose, and paced to
and fro his library.

That is not in the least true,' he reflected.
It ought to be, but it is not. Between the best
friends long absence raises a mist like that which
the Brahmin magician calls up to conceal himself.
Behind the mist the features that we once
knew so well grow vague and unfamiliar.
Frequent contact is necessary to sustain all
sympathy. It is no fault of ours ; it is due to
our imperfect memories, and the change which
comes over our minds as well as our bodies
with years.'

He did not go back to his writing-table.

B 2

The glass doors of his Library stood open and
he walked straight through them. The gardens
stretched before them, half in sunshine, half in
shadow. Broad lawns, clumps of rare evergreens,
stately trees, beds of flowers which had
something of an old-fashioned carelessness and
naturalness in their arrangement. The distance
was closed in by high, close-chipped box hedges,
relic of the days of Queen Anne. He strolled
out into the warm moist air along the terrace
of roses which stretched before this wing of the
house. The roses were all tea-roses, and the
terrace was roofed and enclosed with them ; a
few broad stone steps led from it into the garden
below ; at either end of it was a great cedar.
It was a dreamy, pleasant, poetic place. The
house had more stately facades than this ; some
of it was regal and very imposing in its dimensions
and its decorations, but this side of it was
simple, old-fashioned and charming in its simplicity.
It was the part of the house which he
always used by preference himself.

Ladysrood had been so called in very
distant days of early British Christianity from
some miracle of which the memories were lost
under the mist of many centuries. It had

been the site of a monastery in the days of
Augustine and of Bede, and then the stronghold
of the race of which its present lord was
the sole male representative. The house, as
it now stood, had been built in Tudor days
and had had additions made to it under
architects of the Renaissance. The Tudor
section of it was that which Guilders loved
and made especially his own ; the Renaissance
part of it was left for purposes of stately hospitality
and ceremonial entertainment : it was
also in its way beautiful, but he disliked it. He
had lived much in Italy, and in these great
rooms with their frescoed ceilings, their* sculptured
cornices, their marble columns, their
seemingly endless cows dceil^ he missed the
Italian sun ; they made him shiver in the
grey, damp, gusty English weather. Every one
else, however, admired them immensely, and
they helped to make Ladysrood a very noble
house, though to its master it seemed a dull
one. The gardens were charming, the park
was large and undulating, the timber was
superb, and beyond the park was wide,
heathery, breezy moorland, which stretched
westward to the western coast.

He walked along the terrace without any
especial aim or object in doing so. The day was
late in September, but the air was still warm.
The dahlias and china asters were glowing in
their beds, and the sylvia, blue and red, made
strong bands of colour where the sun's rays
caught them. There was a fresh homely scent
of damp grass and fallen leaves, and now and
then a scent from the sea, which was but a few
miles off beyond the woods of the home park.

It is a dear place,' he thought. He always
thought so when he freshly returned toit
; when he had been in it a few wrecks it
grew tiresome, dull, provincial — yet he loved it
always. At times it wore a mute reproach to
him for leaving it so often alone there in its
stateliness and silence, abandoned to the old servants
who had known it in his grandfather's
time, and to whom every nook and corner of
it, every cup and saucer on the shelves, every
lozenge in the casements, were sacred. They
opened it all, and dusted it all, and every day
let the limit stream through the numerous
rooms, and galleries, and staircases, and corridors,
and watched with vigilance the sightseers
who came on the public day to stare

open-mouthed at its splendours. No house in
England was better cared for in its master's
absence than this was, and yet it occasionally-seemed
to him to ask reproachfully, ' Why
leave me so long alone ? '

How is it ? ' he thought, ' how is it that
we have lost the art of living in these dear
old houses? Better men than we did it and
were not bored by it — did not even know
what being bored meant. They were cut ofl
from the world by the impassable roads that
were round them. It took weeks to get to
London, and was a portentous journey even
to the nearest country town ; and ygt they
were contented, and they were not only contented
— they were often cultured scholars, true
philosophers, fine soldiers when they had to
draw the sword. They had the art of sufficing
to themselves, and we have lost it. We are
all of us dependent on excitement from without.
All that our superior studies and our
varied experiences and our endless travels have
done for us is to render us entirely unable to
support half an hour's solitude.'

Is it not so, Hilda ? ' he said aloud, as a
lady approached him.

As I have not the honour of knowing
what you are thinking of, how can I say
whether I agree with it or not?' replied his
sister.

'It is too much trouble to put it all into
words. If you were a sympathetic woman you
would guess it without explanation.'

I am too matter of fact to be sympathetic ;
you have told me so often. All the commonsense
of the race has concentrated itself in me.'

A woman with common sense is dreadful,'
he replied somewhat peevishly. ' It is an unpleasant
quality, even in a man. One's steward
always has it, and one's banker, and one's solicitor;
but they are none of them people whom
one sees with unalloyed delight.'

They are very useful people,' said the
lady. ' Without them I do not know where
you would be.'

Living in a garret in Paris, or in a messalina
in Venice, with some Jew or some manufacturer
here in my place, no doubt. I am not
ungrateful,' he replied. ' I was, indeed, wishing
that I could live here all the year round, as
our great-great-grandfather did in George the
Second's days, going out in state with twelve

horses and outriders when he did go out, which
was once in ten years '

You could drive twelve horses if it amused
you ; but I think it would have rather a circus-look,
a soupqon of Hunger. And where would
be the devoted rustics, who were ready to drag
our great-great-grandfather's wheels out of the
mud? '

Britons still love lords,' replied Guilders,
and will do so even when Mr. Chamberlain, as
President of the Republic, shall have decreed
that all titles must be abolished. The rustic
may have ceased to be devoted, but he still
likes a gentleman better than he likes a cad.
He will pull one out of the mud sooner than he
will the other. That is a sentiment in the English
breast which has been too much neglected
by the politicians. In France, Jacques Bonhomme
hates M. le Marquis savagely ; but in
England, Bill and Jack have a rude unavowed
admiration for my lord duke. Hunting and
cricket have done that.'

How well that comes from you, who never
cared about either a fox or a wicket ! '

What have my own personal tastes or distastes
to do with a national question .? I should

no doubt have been a much more popular man
in the county if I had liked foxes and wickets !
Hunting, to me, seems barbarous, and cricket
childish ; but as factors in the national life they
have had great uses.'

You are so very dispassionate that you
are intensely irritating,' said his sister. ' Most
people adore things or hate things en hloc^

Happy people! ' replied Guilders. ' They
are never troubled with any doubt or any
divided inclinations. It must be delightful to
have the world sorted into goats and sheep,
into black and white, in that fashion. I should
enjoy it. The world to me looks like a billiard-table
; here and there a ball rolls on it, that is
all ; the table is perfectly monotonous and profoundly
uninteresting.'

It does not look monotonous to those who
play billiards,' she replied. ' What you want
to do to give you an interest in existence is
to occupy yourself with its games, trivial or
serious.'

I have a great many interests in existence.
Of some of them you don't approve ; you think
them too interesting.'

Come and have some tea,' said his sister ;

and she walked to the glass doors of the
library and entered that apartment and rang
for the servant. ' Bring tea here,' she said to
the footman who answered her summons ; and
in ^NQ, minutes the tea was brought, served in
Queen Anne silver and cups of old Worcester,

CHAPTEE II.

Evelyn Herbert, Lord Guilders had been
born to an enviable fate. A long minority
had given him a considerable fortune, and his
name was as old as the days of Kent. His old
home of Ladysrood had been inscribed in the
Doomsday Book, and had never belonged to
any but his race. His mother had been a
Frenchwoman of high rank, and his father a
man of brilliant accomplishments and blameless
character. He inherited from his mother
a great charm and grace of manner, and from
his father a love of learning and a facile and
brilliant intelligence. Personally he was handsome
and patrician-looking ; tall, fair, and perfectly
graceful ; and his admirable constitution
preserved him safely through the many follies
with which he risked the injury of his health.
Destiny had been kind — even lavish — to him,
and if, with all its favours, he was not a happy

man, it was, as his sister told him, most clearly
nobody's fault but his own. He could not perhaps
have said himself whether he were haj^py
or not. Happiness is a fugitive thing, and not
apt to sit long quietly in an arm-chair at the
banquet of life. It is a fairy, which is propitiated
rather by temperament than by fortune.


His sister. Lady Sunbury, was a handsome
woman ; tall, stately, and imposing. She looked
young for the mother of sons who were in the
Guards and at Oxford. She had an expression
of power and of authority ; her eyes were clear
and penetrating ; her mouth handsome and
cold. There were many who thought it a pity
that she had not been born to the title of
Guilders instead of her brother — her husband
amongst them, because then she could not have
married him.

You are perfectly right ; I know you are
always right ; I admit you are; but it is just
that which makes you so damnably odious ! '
said Lord Sunbury once, in a burst of rage, in
his town house, speaking in such stentorian
tones that the people passing up Grosvenor
Street looked up at his open windows, and a

crossing-sweeper said to a match-seller, 'My
eye! ain't he giving it to the old gal like
blazes ! '

Lady Sunbury, however, never divined that
she was called an old girl by the crossing-sweeper
under her windows, and her dignity
remained unimpaired either by that fact or her
husband's fury. She was a perfectly dignified
woman. She looked admirably at a state ball ;
she received admirably in her own house. She
would have been admirable in a revolution,
in a siege, or in a civil war ; but in the little
daily things of life she was not pliant, and
she was not what is comprised in the three
French words facile a vivre. Now to be facile
a vivre is, as modern existence is constructed,
an infinitely higher quality than all the heroic
virtues.

And yet what a good woman she is ! '
thought Guilders often. ' There is something
quite pathetic in such goodness being thrown
away on such sinners as Sunbury and t! And
to think that if she were only a little less
excellent she would have had such a much
better chance of succeeding with' both of us ! '
Yet Guilders, who was of an affectionate

nature, was found of her ; she had been very
kind to him when he had been a little boy and
she a tall girl in the schoolroom ; he always
remembered that; besides, she was the only
near relative that he had remaining to him,
and he was always pleased to have her stay at
his house as she was staying now for a few
days on her way to visits in the adjoining
counties, even if her arguments and her reproaches,
which were invariably tuned to the
same key, left him at the end of each of her
visits disposed to sympathise with that very
uninteresting reprobate, Lord Sunbury. .

She was one of those admirably virtuous
women who are more likely to turn men away
from the paths of virtue than the wickedest of
sirens. Her brother was more tolerant of her
sermons than her husband was, or her sons
were ; he appreciated the excellence of her motives
and the sincerity of her affections better
than they did, possibly because he could get
away from both more easily than they could.
He pitied her, moreover. An intellectual and
intelligent woman, she had married a silly man
for his handsome person — a folly clever women
often commit. A proud woman, she was poor

with that most painful of all poverty, inadeqii
means to sustain a great position ; and a won
of strong affections, she was doomed to see "
attachment impatiently received, or as i
patiently shaken off, in all the relations of ]
life, because she had not the tact to control ]
temper or to resist her love of argument i
domination.

My dear Hilda,' he had said to her m<
than once, ' it is not enough to be attached
people to secure their affections ; we must s
ourselves to them, we must study them,
must make ourselves agreeable to them. 1
Morris has said that love is enough, but it si
It is only a bore if it is not accompanied
self-restraint, discrimination, and daily exert
of tact and judgment.'

But he might as well have spoken to
Kneller and Vandyke ladies in his picts
gallery. Lady Sunbury admitted that he \
right in principle, but in practice she still c(
tinned to irritate herself, infuriate her husband
alienate her sons, because she could i
keep to herself the superior good sense w
which nature had gifted her.

When there is not a woman in the hoi

one never thinks of tea,' said Giiilderoy, as he
took his cup from her.

You should have a woman in the house
said Lady Sunbury curtly and with emphasis.

He smiled, and walked up and down the
library, with his cup in his hand.

What an uncomfortable habit you have of
walking about ! ' said his sister irritably, with
the Queen Anne cream-jug in her hand.

'You think all my habits uncomfortable
when you do not think them improper,' he
returned with perfect good-humour.

Yes, they are the habits of a man who has
lived entirely for himself and after his own
caprices.'

Possibly.'

He did not care to defend himself.

Lady Sunbury looked at him as he paced
to and fro the library floor. She was passionately
attached to him, and proud of him, only
she could not restrain herself from worrying
and finding fault with him, after the manner
of women. She was a few years older than
he, and her sense of herself as of a female
mentor set over him by nature never left her.
She had been intensely ambitious for him ; she

VOL. I. c

had believed, perhaps with reason, that if he
had chosen there was no position in the State
which he could not have filled, and filled with
honour. And here all his life was slipping
away from him, only occupied with idle dreams
and passions as idle. She shut down the lid
of the Queen Anne teapot angrily.

My dear Evelyn, you have missed your
vocation,' she said, with much irritation. ' Every
man who does miss his vocation is an unhappy
man. He may be to the eyes of others prosperous,
but there is a worm which eateth him
and leaves him no rest. The worm in you is
suppressed ambition. It is a malady like suppressed
gout. Nature, circumstance, your own
temperament, and all the accidents of birth
joined together, which they so very seldom do
for anybody, to make it perfectly possible for
you to have been a great man.'

Thus she spoke, and her voice emphasised
imposingly the two last words.

Her auditor responded languidly :

I have no ambition, either suppressed or
developed, and there are no great men. When
a friend of mine said that there were no great
men to Mr. Gladstone, he, who probably felt the

remark to be personally slighting, replied that
there were as many as ever, but that the
general level was higher, so that they did not
look so remarkable. It is a reply comforting
to modern mediocrity. I am not prepared to
say that it is a true one.'

I think it is true, but it is altogether outside
my argument. I am saying that you might
so easily have been a great man, as great men
go in these days ; whether they are really as
big or not as they used to be doesn't matter
the least ; you might have been as big as anyone
of them, and you are mistaken if you think
that you are not ambitious — you do not know
yourself.'

'Know thyself, saith the sage. It is the
most difficult and the most depressing of all
tasks, and not a very useful one when it is
accomplished.'

Lady Sunbury continued, as though he had
not spoken, to pursue her theme:

It is only men in your position who can
touch public life without any possible suspicion
of their motives. It was the patriotism of the
great peers which carried England through her
troubles from '89 to '15. It is only men who

c 2

have already everything which position can
give them who can govern with perfectly clean
hands, or who can have the courage in a great
crisis which is alone born of absolutely pure
disinterestedness.'

I have not the smallest qualification for
governing anything, not even a dog,' replied
Guilders. ' All my dogs do what they like
with me — I am positively afraid of displeasing
them.'

There is hardly anything you might not
have been, with your position and your talents,'
continued the lady. 'You are indolent, you
are capricious, and you are very crotchety;
but these are faults you might have overcome
if you had chosen, and if you had absorbed
yourself in public life you would have been a
very much happier man than you are.'

Public life is not a recipe for happiness —
it is worry, nothing else but worry from morning
to night, and nobody does any good in it.
They are flies on the wheel of the bicycle of
democracy ; the bicycle is rushing doom hill as
fast as it can go ; no fly will stop it.'

No : no fly will, certainly ; but when it
falls over at the bottom of the hill, the man

who will be there ready to pick it up and get
into its saddle will be the master of it and of
the situation.'

'That time is far off. It has only just
started from the top of the hill in England,
and the man who will wait at the bottom will
be some soldier who will stand no nonsense,
and will set it going again with a bang of his
sword. It is always so. I never see any use
in fretting and fuming about it. Democracy,
after having made everything supremely hideous
and uncomfortable for everybody, always ends
by clinging to the coat-tails of some successful
general.'

If oiu" aristocracy did its duty '

Oh no, you are wholly mistaken. Those
who envy us and hate us would not be disarmed
by the spectacle of our virtues were they ever
so numerous. I may not have done my duty
individually ; I do not pretend to have done it ;
but I think that the Order has, as a collective
body, done theirs very admirably, and with
exceeding self-denial. Take our House, for
example. The popular idea of the House of
Lords is that it is a kind of hot-bed for all
manner of unjust privileges and abominable

sinecures. The country does not in the least
understand the quantity of solid useful work
which is done there in committee, the way in
which young men sacrifice time and pleasure todo
that work, and the honest painstaking care
for the national interests which is brought to the
consideration of every bill that comes up to it.
The House of Lords wants nothing of the
nation, and therefore it is the only candid and
disinterested guardian of the people's needs and
resources. It has never withstood the real
desire of the country ; it has only stood between
the country and its impetuous and evanescent
follies. It has given breathing time to it and
made it pause before taking a headlong leap,
but it has never opposed what it saw to be the
real and well-considered national will. It has
done what the American Senate does ; but it
has done it better than any elective senate can
do, because the moment any political body is
elective it has at once a tendency to servility, and
is more or less open to cause, aud to be acted on
by, corruption. As you said yourself just now,
it is only men who have already a position so
great that nothing can make it greater who can
govern public life with no possible taint of

ulterior or personal motive. It is because personal
motives have crept in so insidiously into
English politics that they have deteriorated in
character so greatly as they have done in our
time.'

Every word you say only strengthens my
opinion that you should have taken a part, and
a great part, in national life.'

You narrow a public question to a private
one — women always do. I know myself, which
you admit is rare, and I am wholly unfitted for
public life as it is now conducted in England ;
I have views which would appal even my own
party. I think that we should have th courage
of our opinions, and that we should not bid for
popularity by pretending that the mob is our
equal ; we should have the courage to demand
that supremacy should go to the fittest, and we
should refuse to allow ignorance, drunkenness,
and poverty to call themselves our masters. We
should declare that the minority is always more
likely to be in the right than the majority, and
that if generations of culture, authority, and
courtesy do not make a better product than
generations of ignorance, servility, and squalor,
then let all " laws and learning, grace and

manners die," since they have proved themselves
absolutely useless. But we have not the courage
of our opinions ; we are all kneeling in the mud
and swearing that the mud is higher than the
stars. I for one will not kneel, and therefore I
tell you I have no place in the public life of my
times.'

Lady Sunbury was vexed and irritated.

I do not see that your eulogy of the House
of Lords is in accord with your condemnation
of public life. If you have chosen '

I beg your pardon. I say the House of
Lords is more admirable and useful than the
people have the remotest idea of, who think it
only a kind of glass-frame for rearing the mushrooms
of prestige and privilege. But I think
the House of Lords would be truer to itself if
it had the courage to tell the people that it
could govern them, were it an absolute oligarchy,
with infinitely more honour abroad and
prosperity at home than they will ever get out
of the professional politicians and the salaried
agitators whom it sends up to Westminster.'

If it did it would be swept away.'

Is that so sure ? At all events, it would
fall with dignity. It is not dignified to pass

bills which it knows to be poisonous to the
honour and welfare of the nation, because it has
the couteau a la gorge of its own threatened
extinction. Courage is the one absolutely necessary
quality to an aristocracy ; and I know
not why our House should fear its own abolition.
It is the country which would suffer far
more than ourselves.'

Go to the House and say so.'

The House is not sitting,' he replied with a
little laugh, as he rose and walked to one of the
windows. Opposite to the window was a great
cedar tree spreading its dark shade over a velvet
lawn. On one of the boughs of the cedar
a wood-dove was perched high up against the
sun ; the light made the white and fawn of his
plumage look silvery and gold ; he was murmuring
all sorts of sweet things to his lady-love,
visible to him though not to his observer ; he
was perfectly, ideally happy. Found the trees
at the same moment were flying three sparrows
fussing, shrieking, quarrelling. The foremost
had a straw in his beak, and the others wanted it.

The professional politicians,' murmured
Guilders. ' The lover is wiser by a great
deal.'

That depends on what sort of person the
lady is,' said his sister, with some unpleasantness
in her tone.

Not at all,' said Guilders. ' She is to
him what he thinks her at all events; who
wants more ? '

And he continued to watch the dove cooing
and fluttering in the sunshine on the topmost
branch of the great cedar.

The dove wants a great deal more if he is
wise,' said Lady Sunbury.

If he is wise he is not half a lover,' replied
Guilders. ' The sparrows are wise in your
sense and the world's, not in mine.'

I wish you were like the sparrows.'

You wish I were a professional politician,
or a salaried agitator ? My dear Hilda, what
taste ! '

I wish you were anything but what you
are.*

One's relatives invariably do.'

Lady Sunbury went up to her brother and
put her hand in affectionate apology on his
shoulder.

You know what I mean, my dear. You
have such talents, such great opportunities, so

noble a character. I cannot bear to see them
all thrown away on women.'

He laughed, and moved a little away.

Every woman thinks a man's life " thrown
away " on another woman ; when a man's life
is given to herself she thinks it " consecrated "
to her. You always use two vocabularies for
yourself and your neighbours.'

Lady Sunbury turned away, offended and
silent.

Guilders still continued to gaze dreamily
at the cedar with the birds in it, which had
furnished him with his metaphor.

CHAPTEE III.

'He really ought to make some marriage
thought Lady Sunbury, when she had left him,
and took her way through the drawing-rooms
opening one out of another in a succession of
rooms, all decorated and furnished as they had
been in George the Second's time, and with
their ceilings and panels and mantel-pieces
painted by the Watteau School.

He really ought to marry,' she thought ;
it makes me wretched to think that he should
go on like this.'

And yet what woman living would have
seemed to Lady Sunbury to be the equal of her
brother ?

She would have been sure that a Venus
was a dunce, a Pallas a blue, a Penelope a
fool, a Helen a wanton, and an Antigone a
fright. All the graces, all the muses, and all the
saints rolled into one would have seemed to her

either a dowdy or an ecervelee^ either a humdrum
nobody or a portentous jade, if such an
one had been called Lady Guilders. She had
a most ardent and honest desire to see her
brother married, and yet she felt that his
marriage would be quite intolerable to her.
For a person who prided herself on her consistency
the inconsistency of her feelings was
an irritation.

'I should hate her. I could not help
hating her,' she mused as she walked through
the drawing-rooms. ' But I should always be
just to her, and I should be very fond of the
children.'

Nothing, however, she knew, could be
further from her brother's intentions than to
give her either the woman to hate or the
children to adore.

He had seen all the most charming marriageable
women of Europe, and he had taken
none of them. So far as his life was pledged
at all it was given to a woman whom he could
not marry.

Guilders, left to himself, glanced at his
neglected essay lying on the writing-table.
What is the use of saying these things ? ' he

Guilders

thought. 'Everything has been said already
in the Lysis. We keep repeating it with
variations of our own, and we think our imitations
are novelty and wisdom.'

He threw the written sheets between the
pages of a blotting-book, and took up a letter
lying under them and read it again ; he had
read it when it had arrived with all his other
correspondence in the forenoon. It was from
the lady of whom his sister did not approve.

It was an impassioned letter.

Now, when a man is himself in love such
letters are delightful, but when his own passion
is waning they are apt to be wearisome.

'How much of it is love?' he thought.
And how much love of proprietorship,
jealousy of possible opponents, pleasure in a
flattering affichel God forgive me! I have
not the smallest right to be exacting in such
matters or hypercritical, and yet it takes so
much more to satisfy me than I have ever
got in these things.'

He was conscious of his ingratitude.

After all, a great many women had loved
him greatly, and had given him all they had to
give ; and if the quality of their love had not

been equal to some vague exaggerated impossible
ideal which floated before his fancy, it
had not been their fault probably ; much more
probably his own.

He lit a match and burnt the letter, and
remembered with a pang the time when a
single line from the same hand had been worn
next his heart for days after it had been received.


Why do our feelings only remain such a
very little time at that stage ? ' he mused ; and
he wondered if the wood-dove in the cedar tree
knew these varying and gradual changes from
ardour to indifference. He was not actually
indifferent. He felt that to become indifferent
was a possibility, and when this is felt indifference
itself is never far off we may be sure.
Elle vient a pas lents ; mats elle vient'

The letter asked him to spend the winter in
Naples. He usually spent the winter somewhere
in the south, but a vague dislike to the
south rose in him before this request.

The sense that his presence there was
regarded as a right weakened his desire to
go. Like all high-mettled animals, he turned
restive when he felt the pressure of the curb.

With the reins floating loose on his neck he
followed docilely.

If I do go,' he thought, ' I shall have all
my days mapped out for me ; I shall be worried
if I look at another woman ; I shall be told
fifty times a week that I am heartless. Perhaps
I am heartless, but I think not ; and, even if
one is, to be told so perpetually does not make
one's heart softer.'

Was he heartless ?

He thought not ; and in this respect he
knew his own temperament. He was even
more tender-hearted than most men ; but he
had been spoiled and caressed by fortune, and
habitual self-indulgence had made him apt only
to consider himself with an unconsciousness
which made it less egotism than habit.

He had done some things which were unselfish
and generous in an unusual degree ; but
they had been great things in which the indolence
and fastidiousness of his character had
been banished by new and strong emotions.
In ordinary matters he was selfish without
being in the least aware of it, as indeed happens
with the majority of people.

When the letter was burnt he went to one

of the windows and looked out. The day was
closing in, and the shadows were taking the
colours from the autumnal flowers and making
the woods beyond look black and forbidding,
while a few red leaves were beings driven alone?
the terrace under a breeze which had suddenly
risen and blew freshly from the sea. A winter
here would be unendurable, he thought. It
was very many years since he had seen Lady's
in the winter months. None of the
sports of winter were agreeable to him, and
he did not care for house parties which required
an amount of attention and observance
from a host very distasteful to his temperament.
He usually came here only when he wished for
entire solitude, and the gentry of his county
sighed in vain for the various entertainments,
the balls, the dinners, and the hunting breakfasts,
to which, had Guilders been like any one
else, the great house would doubtless have
been dedicated. But he saw no necessity to
so dedicate it. Ladysrood was much isolated,
being surrounded on three sides with moorland
and on the other side shut in by the sea ; and
though his distant neighbours would willingly
have driven twenty miles to him, he gave them
VOL. I. D

no invitation or permission to do so. The
great fetes which had celebrated his majority
some fifteen or sixteen years before had been
the last time in which the reception-rooms had
been illuminated for a great party.

He was an idol of the great world, which
always considered him capricious but charming ;
but his county saw only the caprice and none
of the charm, and thought him rude, eccentric,
and misanthropical. In his father's and forefathers'
time the hospitalities of Ladysrood
had been profuse and magnificent ; the closing
of its doors was an affront to the whole countryside,
against the unpopularity of which
the good sense of Lady Sunbury had in vain
often protested.

I have no desire to be popular,' Guilders
invariably replied. ' There is nothing on earth
so vulgar as the craze for popularity which
nowadays makes people who ought to know
better only anxious to be fawned on by the
crowd.'

" Vox populi vox Dei," ' said Lady Sun-bury.


It always was in the esteem of the vulgar
themselves,' replied her brother. ' Myself, I



wholly decline to believe that the gods ever
speak through the throats of any mob.'

'Can you call your own county people
a mob?'

Oh yes. A well-dressed mob, but a mob
decidedly. If you let them in by the great
gates I shall go out by the garden-door.'

And they never were let into Ladysrood,
infinitely to their disgust. A few men dined
with him occasionally, that was all. It was
not wonderful that his neighbours thought
Lady Sunbury would have been better in his
place.

When he looked out on to the terrace now
and saw the little red leaves blowing, he rang
and ordered his horse. He was fond of riding
in the dusk for an hour or two before dinner.
But as he was about to mount his horse he
heard the sound of wheels coming up the
avenue which led to the western door of the
house : a 'petite entree only used by intimate and
privileged persons.

Who can it be ? ' Guilders wondered to
himself, for no one then in the county, to his
own knowledge, was on sufficiently friendly
terms with him to come thither uninvited. A

D 2

moment after he caught sight in the distance
of the invader, and with pleasure and astonishment
recognised his cousin Lord Aubrey.

A few moments later he welcomed him at
the west door.

My dear Francis, how glad I am ! ' he said
with perfect sincerity. ' To what good chance
do we owe this happy surprise ? '

If you bestowed a little attention on the
politics of your own county,' replied Lord
Aubrey, ' you would know that I had to attend
a meeting in your own town yesterday. I
heard you were here, and I did not like to be
so near Ladysrood without passing a night with
you. If I had known sooner the date of the
meeting I would have sent you word, but it
was made a week earlier than I expected at
the eleventh hour.'

I am delighted to see you, and there could
be never the slightest occasion to let me know
beforehand. Ladysrood is yours whether I
am in it or not. Would you like to go direct
to your rooms, and I will take you to Hilda
afterwards ? '

With pleasure,' said Lord Aubrey. ' I am
hoarse, dusty, and stupid, for I have been declaiming

for three hours on policy to some
^-^Q thousand people of whom four thousand
probably would spell policy with an 5, if they
could spell it at all.'

Spelling is a prejudice, like a love for
ground leases,' said Guilders. 'Come and
have a bath and forget Demos for a day.'

You contrive to forget him always,' said
Lord Aubrey.

Francis de Lisle, Lord Aubrey, was a cousin-german
of Guilders's, and some few years
older than himself. He was a tall man, with
an air of great distinction and an expression
at once melancholy and amused, cynical and
good-humoured. He carried his great height
somewhat listlessly and indolently, and his grey
eyes were half veiled by sleepy eyelids, from
which they could, however, flash glances which
searched the inmost souls of others. He was
heir to a Marquisate, and had dedicated his
whole life to what he considered to be the
obligations of his station. He did not like
public life, but he followed it with conscientiousness
and self-sacrifice. He was not a man
of genius, but he had the power of moving
and of controlling other men, and his absolute

sincerity of character and of utterance was
known to the whole country.

How is your sister ? ' he asked now, as he
came to the tea-room. ' And what are you
doing in the west of England in autumn, you
who hate grey skies and cold winds ? '

I am delighted to be in the west of England
since it affords me a quiet day with you,'
said Guilders with perfect truth, for he liked
and admired his cousin. He had indeed a
warmer feeling towards Lord Aubrey than
Aubrey had for him. A man who has combated
his own indolence and become excessively
occupied is apt to have slight patience
with a man who has allowed his indolence and
his instincts to be the sole controllers of his life.
Guilders 's existence was a union of contemplation
and pleasure ; to Lord Aubrey it appeared
the existence of an unconscionable egotist ; and
yet he had a friendly regard for the egotist.

You have much more talent than I have,'
he said once to his cousin, ' and yet your voice
is never heard by the country ; ' and Guilders
gave him much the same reasons for his silence
which he had given to his sister.

You believe in a great many things, and

you care about others,' he added. ' Now I do
not believe, and I do not care. Talent, even if
I possess it — which I doubt — cannot replace
the forces which come from conviction. Those
forces I have not.'

Here is your model hero ; the one perfect
person endowed with all the virtues and moral
conscientiousness in which I am so sadly deficient,'
said Guilders to his sister, as he entered
her presence with his cousin as the sun descended
over the western woods.

I admit that I wish your life were more
like his ; you would probably be happier and
certainly more useful,' said Lady Sunbury as
she welcomed Aubrey with more cordiality
than she showed to most people.

'I am by no means sure,' said Aubrey,
that when one does choose Pallas one is always
right in the choice, if Hercules were ; and if one
is as intolerant of being bored as Evelyn is, it
is no kind of use to take her ; a divorce would
be sued for immediately.'

You do not regret your choice, surely ? '
said Hilda Sunbury in some surprise. Aubrey
always seemed to her to be as absorbed in
public life as other men are in pleasure.

I did not say that I regretted,' he replied,
but misgivings visit one inevitably. A quoi
hon ? One cannot help thinking that now and
then. I dare say a man of absolute genius
does not have that doubt, but when one is a
very ordinary personage one must feel now and
then that one might as well have enjoyed oneself
and let the nation alone.'

You are too modest ; your example alone
is of the most infinite benefit. There is something
so noble in a man who has nothing to
gain and everything to lose devoting himself to
political life. It is those sacrifices which have
made the strength of England and of the aristocracy
of England.'

Aubrey smiled, a little sadly : ' We shall
not last very long, do whatever we will.'

I do not believe the principle of aristocracy
will ever die out,' said Lady Sunbury resolutely.
It is rooted in human nature and in nature
itself. All governments drift towards it whatever
they call themselves. Even savage tribes
have a chief. Where our party has been so
culpable has been in pretending to agree with
those who deny this. Toryism should have the
courage of its opinions.'

Certainly the first virtue of an aristocracy
should be courage,' said her cousin. ' An aristocracy
is nothing without it. A democracy in
England would have sent a humble deputation
and the keys of the Cinque Ports to Napoleon
after Austerlitz. What stood against him and
prevailed against him were the valour and the
stubborn patriotism of the English nobility.
Aristocratic governments are often faulty ; they
may be arrogant, illiberal, prejudiced ; they
may be so, though they are not so necessarily ;
but there is one fine quality in them which no
democracy ever possesses : they have Honour.
A democracy cannot understand honour; how
should it ? The caucus is chiefly made up of
men who sand their sugar, put alum in their
bread, forge bayonets and girders which bend
like willow wands, send bad calico to India,
pay their operatives by the tally shop, and insure
vessels at Lloyd's which they know will goto
the bottom before they have been ten days
at sea. Honour is an italic and impersonal
thing ; it can only exist in men who have inherited
its traditions and have learned to rate it
higher than all material success.'

I quite agree with you,' said Guilders.

Unless we honestly believe that we are the
natural leaders of the nation by virtue of the
honour which we uphold and represent, we have
no business to attempt to lead it, and we ought
not to conceal or to disavow that we have that
belief in ourselves. Lord Salisbury has been
often accused of arrogance ; people have never
seen that what they mistook for arrogance was
the natural, candid consciousness of a great
noble that he is more capable of leading the
country than most men composing it would be.
If a man have not that belief in himself he
has no business to assume command anywhere,
whether in a cabinet or in a camp or in a cricket
field. I have no sort of belief in myself, and
therefore I have always let the State roll on
without help or hindrance from me in anyway.*

You may be a hindrance without knowing
it,' murmured Aubrey ; ' a boulder in a highroad
does not move, but sometimes it overturns
the carriage as effectually as if it did.'

By which you mean '

That when the Radicals of your county are
disposed to point to great landowners who lead
their lives to very little purpose except that
of their own enjoyment, you, my dear Guilders,

are conveniently at hand to be pointed at,
and to sharpen the moral of their tale.'

It is wholly impossible for them to know
what I do with my life,' said Giiilderoy with
some anger.

Clearly ; but they judge from what they
see ; and you may be sure that they lose no
time in making your country-side sec With their
eyes. For aught they can tell, no doubt, you
may be visiting prisons Hke Howard, or capturing
slave shows like Gordon, all the time
you are away from England, but they do not
think so, and all they tell the county is that
you have an immense income, which you don't
earn, and that you spend it anywhere sooner
than in England. I am not saying that they
have any business to make such remarks ; I
only say that they do make them.'

Let them make them and be damned ! ' said
Guilder oy.

With all my heart,' said his cousin. ' Only
it is not they who ever are damned ; it is always
the poor, stupid, hungry, gullible crowd, which
is led astray by them, and is made to believe
that it would mend matters to burn down great
houses and cut down old woods.

You are always saying,' continued Lord
Aubrey, ' that you wonder why I bore myself
with public life. It does bore me endlessly,
immeasurably, that I grant ; but apart from all
other reasons you know, Evelyn, I must consider
that men in our position owe it to the
country not to leave politics wholly in the
hands of professional politicians. The professional
politician may be honest, but his honesty
is at best a questionable quality. The moment
that a thing is a metier it is wholly absurd to
talk about any disinterestedness in the pursuit
of it. To the professional politician national
affairs are a manufacture into which he puts his
audacity and his time, and out of which he
expects to make so much percentage for his
lifetime. I say that we have no business, because
we are lazy and fastidious, to let the vast
mass of the uneducated and credulous who
make up the mass of our nation be led by
false guides, who only use them to climb up on
their shoulders to power. If we found a man
persuading a child to eat poison by telling
him that it was honey, we should be as guilty
as the intending murderer if we did not strike
the cup down and tell the child of the danger it



ran. That poor, overgrown, ill educated child,
the people — the People with a big P — is always
having poison thrust on it under the guise of
honey. If we do not try to show it what the
cup really holds, I think we are to blame. That
is the feeling which has moved me to endeavour
to do what I can. I should be uneasy if I did
not do it. After all, one can only act according
to one's light.'

You are a very conscientious man, my dear
Aubrey,' said Guilders, ' and I admire if I do
not imitate you. The overgrown child will,
however, always prefer the deceiver, who tenders
it the poison, to you who are so* careful
over its health.'

That must be as it may,' said Aubrey,
I cannot help the results. Men never know
their best friends in public life or private. That
instinct is reserved for dogs.'

I can well believe that you are indifferent
to ingratitude,' said Guilders, ' and I am convinced
you are the servant of your conscience.
But will you tell me how you stand the vulgarity
of public life .^ It has become so hopelessly
vulgar ! '

That I grant. And it is just its vulgarity

which will, I fear, every year alienate the
higher minds from it more and more, and send
them instead to their bookcases and their inkstands.
I confess when I have shouted for an
hour or two on a hustings before a general
election, I have felt myself on no better intellectual
level than a Cheap John. To be compelled
to -' go on the stump " is a prospect
which may fairly make a man who has any
refinement or delicacy about him shun political
life as he would shun a collier's pot-house.
There is too great a tendency to govern the
world by noise.'

'On the whole I think I have the better
part,' said Guilders.

So far as your own ease goes, not a doubt
of it.'

Evelyn does not admit that there is such
a thing as duty,' remarked Lady Sunbury from
her tea-table.

I do not like the word duty,' said Guilders.
' It is puritanic and illogical. If we are
what science seems to prove, mere automata
formed of cells and fibres accidentally meeting,
we clearly are wholly irresponsible creatures.
Nero is as innocent as St. Francis.'

What a shocking theory ! '

As shocking as you please. But it is the
only logical outcome of the conclusions of
physiology.'

I do not enter the lists with physiology,'
said Aubrey, ' but it may say what it will,
it cannot prevent my consciousness of an Ego
which inclines to evil, and an Ego which tells
me to avoid it. It is nothing very great to
claim. A dog has it. He longs to steal a bone
and he refrains from stealing it ; he longs to
bite a hand which hurts him and abstains from
doing so if he finds the hand is a friend's. I
do not think conscience is exclusively a human
possession, though it may have become larger
in human than in other animals. But it is
strong enough in me to make me sensible that
I am in a very great measure responsible for
my actions, and all the philosophies on earth
will never talk me out of that belief.'

And the belief has sent you to the House
of Commons ? '

Just so ; I admit the bathos — I admit the
justice of your implied satire. But I go to the
House of Commons because, feeling as I feel, I
should do violence to my conscience not to goto

ifc. That sounds horribly priggish, but I
cannot express what I mean otherwise.'

I wish the country had a great many more
men who felt like you,' said Guilders.

He walked about a few minutes restlessly,
then, his sister having left the room, he asked
with some abruptness :

'You came last week from the Yeneto?
Did you see the Duchess Soria ? '

Yes, I saw her. She wondered very much
not to see you.'

Did she say so ? '

She said so with considerable bitterness.
Why were you not there ? '

I do not care to do what I am expected todo,'
replied Guilders with some impatience
and some sullenness. ' There can be no pleasure
where there is no improve; where there is
nothing voluntary. Women never understand
that. Half the passions of men die early
because they are expected to be eternal. Half
the love which women excite they destroy
because they stifle it by captivity in a hothouse,
as a child might kill a wild bird.'

Aubrey looked at him with some amusement.


You are undoubtedly right. Even I, who
have no pretensions to much experience in the
soft science, am aware that you are most undeniably
right. But how do you propose to
get any woman — and any woman in love — to
understand that ? '

I do not even hope it,' replied Guilders,
wearily. ' I only remark that the utter inability
of women to understand it brings about
their own unhappiness much sooner than it
would otherwise come to them. If they comprehended
that the bird wants fresh air, he
would very possibly often return of his own
good will to the hot-house.'

And tell the tale of his amours en voyage ?
My dear Evelyn, the lady would have to be as
wise as Penelope and as amorous as Calypso
to receive him on such terms.'

It would be love ; whereas now it is only
love of possession.'

You certainly ask a great deal of love, and
seem to me inclined to give very little.'
i ' One can only give what one has. Women
reproach us with ceasing to care for them. Is
it our fault ? We cannot control impulse.'

Aubrey looked at him once more.

VOL. I. E

Poor women ! ' he said, involuntarily.

Guilders moved impatiently.

There is no doubt of the Duchess's devotion
to you,' added his cousin. ' On my honour,
I think she suffers a great deal. She has been
a coquette, no doubt, but she has never been a
coquette with you.'

I do not think we ought to speak of her,'
said Guilders.

Certainly not, unless you wish it. You
introduced her name first.'

My dear Aubrey,' said Guilders with
some violence, ' of all intolerable things on
earth a passion which survives on one side and
dies on the other is the worst. There is no
peace possible in it. You feel like a brute,
whilst honestly you are no more to be blamed
than the sea is to be blamed because after high
tide its waters recede. No man is accountable
for the flow and reflow of his own emotions.
Women speak as though the heart were to be
heated at will like a stove or a bath. Now of
all spontaneous, capricious, changeful, and ungovernable
things, the passions are the most
wayward and the least reasonable. Why do
you love? You cannot say. Why do you

cease to love? You probably cannot say-either.
The forces of your emotions and
desires are wholly beyond your own control.
They are not electric machines — mere Leyden
jars which you can charge at will. Why then
is it a reproach to cease to love? It is as
involuntary as it was to love at all in the
beginning.'

Aubrey smiled a little dubiously.

Excellently reasoned ! I should be disposed
to admit your arguments, but I doubt
very much whether the Duchess Soria would
see the force of them.'

You think she was annoyed that I was
not there ? '

She was much more than annoyed ; she
was indignant and wounded. That was easy to
see. She is not a woman who cares to conceal
what she feels. Why were you not there, by
the way ? '

'I dislike everything which is made an
obligation — I told you so. What is feeling
worth if it degenerate into a habit ? '

All feeling runs to seed in that fashion,
unless it is broken off sharply whilst it is still
in blossom : a painful fact, but a fact. Here

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNOlS

and there perhaps there is a sentiment strong
enough to endure through all the changes of
its growth, so that instead of decay it reaches
almost perfection ; but it is very rare, and can
only be the issue of an unique character.'

The ideal love, of course, does so ; but it
does not exist out of the dreams of boyhood
and of poets,' answered Guilders, impatiently.
There is attraction, and there is its reaction ;
and between the taro the time is more or less
short, according to temperament and circumstances.
But the end is always the same.'

What you call attraction I should not call
love ; I should give it an uglier name.'

Give it any name you like ; it is all there
is. It becomes poetic, however, in poetic natures.'


My nature is absolute prose, so I cannot
pretend to understand,' said Aubrey; but although
he said so, it was not quite so sincerely
spoken as was his wont. He had a vein of
romance in his character, beneath the coldness
of his exterior and the prosaic nature of his
occupations. When he had been quite a boy
he had made a secret marriage from pure
love. It had lasted a brief space, and had

ended ill. The woman for whom he had sacrificed
much had been false to him in a gross and
brutal intrigue. He had not made his wound
public, and she had died not long after his discovery
of her infidelity. No one had been
aware of this unfortunate drama in his life, but
it had made him at once indifferent to women
and sympathetic with all sorrows of the affections.
He never laughed at those who suffered.
His own wound had healed, indeed, long ago,
but now and then a nerve still thrilled under
the remembrance of its pain. Love had little
place now in his busy and laborious life, but
his estimate of it was higher than his cousin's,
the doors of whose life stood wide open to it
all seasons through. If there was anything inhuman
nature which made him irritable, it was
to hear men speak of the passions of life as
Guild troy spoke of them. ' If they are playthings
they are not passions,' he was wont to
say, 'no more than the fireworks on the Arc
de I'Etoile are the flames of the Commune.'

For errors which were the birth of passion
he had infinite sympathy, but with the mere
caprices of the senses and the fancy he had
little patience.

He should marry,' said Lady Sunbury to
him of her brother, repeating her favourite
lament.

Aubrey laughed.

I should certainly pity his wife,' he replied.

'Why?' said Lady Sunbury, irritated.
She would have a very agreeable position.'

Oh, no doubt,' assented Aubrey. ' If she
were satisfied with position. Perhaps she
would not be.'

Women are not romantic nowadays,' said
his cousin, in the tone with which she would
have said that women did not wear patches.

I suppose that there are as many — or as
few — ames d elite now as then,' replied Aubrey.
There never can have been very many. Why
should you want him to marry ? ' he continued ;
you know you would hate a saint if he married
her.'

I am sure I should be delighted,' said
Lady Sunbury, and was fully persuaded that
she spoke the truth.

Aubrey smiled.

He spent that day at Ladysrood, and then
took his departure for his own place — Barons,
in the north. Balfrons was a mighty border

castle which had withstood raids and sieges from
the days of Hotspur, and it gave its name to
the Marquisate which he would inherit on the
death of his father, already a very old man of
feeble health, who was but seldom seen by the
world.

I wonder what he would do with his life
if he allowed himself to do what he wishes ? '
said Guilders, when his cousin had gone.

'He would never leave Balfrons, and he
would collect early Latin manuscripts of Virgil,'
replied Lady Sunbury.

Almost as dreary a paradise as his present
purgatory.'

That is a matter of taste. You prefer to
collect a number of erotic memories which
soon grow as fusty to you as if they were used
tea-leaves.'

'They are at least as amusing as old
Italian manuscripts . '

Not as harmless,' said Lady Sunbury.

CHAPTEE lY.

The next day, after his cousin's departure, very
early in the forenoon Guilders rode out
whilst the day was still young. Ending was
the only active exercise which pleased him ;
he rode well, and with great boldness and
sureness ; his sister sometimes told him that it
was the only English taste he possessed. He
could ride many miles without passing the
limits of his own land, and much of this was
the wild moorland lying high and wind-blown
between the woods of Ladysrood and the cliffs
by the sea. Over the short elastic turf he
could gallop for hours and meet no fence,
or boundary-mark, or human habitation. The
western wind came straight in his face from
the Atlantic, and there was nothing but saltwater
between him and the coast of Maine.
The world had been too much with him to
leave him great leisure for the enjoyment of

nature, but he had a vague feeling for her
which resisted the opposing influences of the
world, and revived in the force it had had in
his boyhood whenever he was alone in the
open air, on moor or shore or mountain.

The moor and the shore and the mountain
could not hold him very long, but, while it
lasted, his sympathy with them was sincere and
his pleasure in their loneliness very real. It
was not the love of Wordsworth or of Tennyson,
but it was genuine in its kind, and gave
momentary seriousness and romance to his
temperament and his thoughts. In the heart
of a man who loves nature there are* always
some green places where the caravan wheels
of the world have not passed or the hoofs of its
carnival coursers trodden.

It was so seldom that he saw anyone or
anything on these moors beyond a pedlar ora
turf-cutter, a carrier's cart creeping slowly
across the track which led from one hamlet to
another, or a cottager carrying on her head a
bundle of cut furze or a basket of bilberries,
that he looked curiously at a little crowd of
people which he saw on the edge of the moor,
their figures black against the light of the sky.

From them, as he drew nearer, there came to
his ear an angry screaming noise, the ugly
noise of irritated roughs, and he could distinguish
the uncouth figures of village lads
about whom several lurchers and other dogs
were jumping and yelping excitedly. The
centre of the excitement was a hut or cabin
made of wattles such as was used by the turf-and
bog cutters of the moors ; generally such
places were only used for shelter in bad
weather, but this one was stronger than most,
and braced with beams, and had a door of
wood, having served as the home of some
squatters at one time, though of late it had
been empty.

They are after some barbarous sport or
another,' thought Guilders, as he heard the
hoarse shouts. ' Torturing some beast, very
likely, or perhaps some half-witted human
creature.'

He turned his horse to the left and rode
towards the little mob, which was a very rough
one, composed chiefly of lads from the other
side of the moors, where the scattered and
uncared-for people were more savage and uncouth
than those on the domains of Ladysrood.

Let im fire her out ! ' he heard one of
them cry, as he rode nearer, and the welcome
shout was echoed with noise and glee. ' Let
un fire her out ! Let un fire her out ! '

Who is she ? ' asked Guilders, ' and
what are you going to do ? What do you
mean by your threats about fire ? '

The ringleaders looked at him sullenly.

'Tis the lord,' they muttered.

They were some score in number, lads
ranging from fifteen to twenty, beetle-browed,
coarse-featured, with jaws like their own bulldogs,
and small dull savage eyes, items of that
enlightened and purified democracy to* which
is henceforth trusted the realm of Britain.

It was a Saturday morning, and they had
nothing useful to do, and so were doing mischief.


What are you about ? ' asked Guilders
again, more imperiously.

What struck him as singular was that
whilst the young men and their dogs were in
uproar, jostling, hallooing, swearing and yelping,
from the hut not the faintest sound came.

Have they frightened to death whatever
it is they are persecuting ? ' he thought, with

difficulty keeping his horse quiet amidst the
hubbub and the menacing gestures of the
youths.

What are you about ? ' he demanded ;
'answer me at once. What devilry are you
doing ? '

He had little doubt that they had hunted
in there some poor old creature whom they
thought a witch. Witchcraft was firmly believed
in on the moors, and often rudely dealt with
by village superstition.

Their clamour ceased a little while, and one
of them called to him :

She's shut herself in with it, and it's ours,
and we're going to burn 'em both out ; she's
kept us here fooling us three hours.'

'What is it? and who is she?' asked
Guilders, and he struck with his riding-whip
out of the hand of the man who spoke a wooden
box of lucifer matches. There was a quantity
of dry furze already piled against the wall of
the hut, which if set alight would have flared
like straw.

They did not reply, but some of them
roared like animals deprived of prey which
they had thought safe in their jaws.

Answer me,' he repeated ; ' you know who
I am. I have a right to be answered, you are
on my land.'

'Tis a tod,' one of them shouted, ' and
we turned it out to hunt it with the dogs, and
we'd run it into a cranny, and she come up
and catch hold of it and tear away, and we
hunted of lier then, in here, and she's fleet of
foot as any hare, and she hied in quick as
thought, and banged the door, and barred it,
and she's kept us, making fools of us, three
hours if one, and she knows we'll burn her
out, and she won't give it up, and she knows
we bought it at the public at Cherriton for we
told her so, and brought it in a bag and turned
it down, only it run bad because it's such a
little un.'

You have lost a fox-cub, I understand,'
said Guilders when the narrator ceased. ' But
who is it that you have in there, and that you
are brutes enough to want to burn out ? '

It's the young un of Christslea,' said the
youth sullenly.

Who do you mean ? '

*tis the Vernon girl,' cried another of
the rioters, ' She's a spirit she have, but we'll

break it. We'll have the tod if we have him
roasted.'

You unutterable beasts ! ' cried Guilders,
in the passion which cowardice and tyranny
together rouse in a man who is both courageous
and merciful. ' Po you mean to say that
there is a child or a girl in there ? '

She went in with the tod,' said the lad sullenly
; and those around him yelled in chorus,
How dared she go and take the beast and
spoil our sport ? The tod was ours, not hers.
And she cuddled it up in her neck as if it was
a baby. Well burn her out, and then we'll
toss up for her,' cried another voice, and the
suggestion was received with shouts of applause.

'You are on my land, and I am a magistrate,'
said Guilders, controlling with difficulty
his fury of disgust as he dismounted, and, holding
his plunging horse with one hand, with the
other struck the handle of his whip on the door
of the hut.

My dear, do not be alarmed,' he said to
the unseen occupant within. 'These brutes
shall not hurt you. Open the door. I will
take care of you. I am Lord Guilders, and
these moors are mine.'

A very clear young voice with a tremor in
it answered through the door :

I cannot open it, because if I do they will
take the little fox.'

No, they shall not take the cub,' said
Guilders, and he turned to the men. ' You
have behaved worse than your mongrels, but I
will consent to believe that you would have
failed to carry out your dastardly and brutal
threats. There is a sovereign for the loss of
the cub ; now go back to wherever you came
from, and do not forget that your miserable
sport is illegal on these lands. Go ! '

The little mob wavered, growled and* swore
under its breath ; then one of them picked up
the gold piece where it lay on the ground
to slink off with it unremarked.

Share fair ! ' yelled the others, and they
fell on him, and wrestling, quarrelling, yelling,
and casting shamefaced and sullen glances over
their shoulders at ' the lord,' they slunk away
across the moor in the warm amber light of
the full noonday.

The ground sloped slightly downwards to
the north-east, and thither they went ; the rise
soon screened their forms from view, though

the echo of their voices in rough and fierce
dispute came to the ear of Guilders as he
stood by the cabin door.

'Admirable persons to have been made
our masters by Act of Parliament ! ' he
thought, as the sullen muttering of their
oaths came to his ear on the westerly wind.

Then he turned to the door of the cabin
and rapped on it with the handle of his whip.

The brutes are gone,' he said through the
keyhole. ' You may come out quite safely.'

He heard a wooden bar lifted and dropped ;
the wooden door opened, and on the threshold
in the warm glow of the sunset stood a young
girl with a very beautiful face, which was pale
but resolute ; a Gainsborough face with wide
opened questioning eyes and tumbled auburn
hair, of which thick waves were escaping from a
gipsy-shaped straw hat. A grey woollen dress
was fastened round her waist by a leather
belt ; it had been obviously made by some
simple country sempstress, but there was an
aristocracy in the look of the wearer which
made him feel that, whoever she might be, she
was thoroughbred. She was not nervous or
agitated, only pale. She had placed the fox-cub

on the ground that she might undo the bar
of the door, and the little animal was shivering
and trembling behind her. She took it up
before she spoke to him.

'You are sure they are gone?' she asked,
looking out across the moor.

Perfectly sure,' returned Guilders. ' But,
my dear child, did you not hear them ? They
were inciting each other to fire the hut.'

Oh yes, I heard them,' she replied tranquilly.
' I think they would have done it
too. They are very rough and savage, fliose
Cherriton people. It was very kind of you to
interfere '

And what would you have done if I had
been riding another way, and if the fellows had
carried out their word ? You would ten to one
have been burnt alive.'

Oh, perhaps not,' she answered. ' I daresay
they would not have let me be really
burnt, they only wanted to frighten me.'

And you would have run the risk rather
than give up that cub .^ '

Oh yes ! I could not have given him up ;
and, besides, I would never have given in to
them!

VOL. I. F

Guilders bowed to her with grave respect.

'You have a great courage, and you have
another quality growing rarer still — scorn for
the mob.'

She did not reply to the words.

'I will go now,' she said; 'and I thank
you very much, though I do not know who you
are.'

I am a neighbour of yours, I think. I
live at Ladysrood.'

Ah, I heard them say " It's the lord." '

She looked at him with more attention and
interest than before.

Ladysrood is such a beautiful place they
say,' she said. 'But you are never there.
Why are you always away ? '

'I really hardly know,' he replied; she
seemed to him too young to be answered with
a compliment. ' You see the English climate
is so detestable. I dislike rain, and there is
scarcely anything else here.'

I do not mind rain at all,' she said as she
left the cabin, still clasping in her arms the
draggled and shivering fox-cub. ' Pray do not
come with me. Our place is ten miles from
here.'

Neither my horse nor I mind ten miles,'
replied Guilders, ' and I most certainly insist
on being allowed to attend you to your father's
gates. Let me carry the cub for you. How is
it he is so tame ? '

They take little foxes from their earths and
bring them up ; and then, when they are a few
months old they are carried out to some waste
place and hunted with dogs ; not hounds, you
know, but any kind of dog. I could tell this
was a tame cub by the way it behaved. It
did not know how to run ; and was not even
afraid. The young men chased it and lashed
it, and threw pebbles at it to make it run, but
it did not know how. Then, when I saw that
it got behind a stone, I took it up and would
not let them have it, and I ran as hard as I
could, and they ran after me. I got in there
just in time to bar the door. Men are so
mean,' she continued, with the same scorn in
her voice. ' There was a fox — a grown fox —
that the real hounds hunted last year, and he
ran down to the shore and took to the sea, and
swam— oh, so gallantly! The hounds could
not get him nor the hunters ; but what do you
think some men did who were in a boat, and

p 2

saw him? They rowed so that they crossed
his path, for he was making for a tongue of
land, and they beat him to death in the sea
with their oars — the cowards ! That I saw
myself, for I was up above on the cliffs, and I
could not do anything to save him.'

Men are very ignoble ; and the new worship
of humanity has a beast for its god,' replied
Guilders.

She went on walking, holding the little fox
to her with both arms. Guilders walked beside
her, with the bridle of his horse over his
arm.

But how can your father allow you to
wander about so far all alone ? ' he asked, looking
at the profile of his companion, and thinking
of Eomney's Emma Hamilton, which it resembled.


She laughed ; a child's careless laughter.

I do not think he even knows I do roam
about : he is so much absorbed in books and
papers. He is so good to me — oh so good ! but
he would never think to ask where I was all
day ; and, besides, the moors are as safe as our
garden. Nothing has ever happened till today ;
and to-day the men would not have annoyed

me if I had not taken away their cub. Of
course I had no business, really, to take it.'

Why did you, then ? '

Because I would much sooner do wrong —
yes, even a crime, I think — than see any helpless
little thing hurt. Would not you ? '

Yes, I would, certainly ; I like animals.
They are great mysteries ; and men, instead of
endeavouring to win their way into their closed
souls, have only beaten the owners of the souls
into captivity.'

The girl paused a moment, and looked at
him earnestly.

'1 like you very much,' she said, with
gravity, as a child of five years old might have
said it.

I am exceedingly pleased,' said Guilders,
inclined to smile ; for he was adored and flattered
by all women of the great world, and
used to the most subtle compliment, the most
charming homage. ' You have not told me
whom I have the honour of speaking to. May
I ask what is your father's name ? '

Our name is Vernon. Vernon of Llanarth.'

Is it possible that your father is John Vernon
of Llanarth? ' he asked, in intense surprise.

He remembered the name, though vaguely.
When he had been a very young man the story
of Yernon of Llanarth had been the theme of
society for a season. He had forgotten it utterly
for years ; now its memories rose before
him, shadowy, but full of reviving interest.

Yes, he used to be rich, but he lost all his
money. It is many years ago. I do not remember
his being rich at all. You seem surprised.
Did you never know that we were
here, then ? We are your tenants, I think.'

I know so little of the neighbourhood.'

Yes ; and my father says it is very wrong
of you. He says you play into the hands
of democrats ; that at the Radical meetings in
the great towns they always cite you as an
example of those who have all the fruits of
the land without toiling for it, and take their
substance from the poor to spend in foreign
countries. Why do you ? '

I did not look for a political lecture,' said
Guilders. ' I am always having one at home
from my sister, and I am not aware that I take
any substance from the poor. I believe, on
the contrary, that the poor are better off on the
lands of Ladysrood than they are anywhere

else in the south-west of England. Is it possible
that your father holds these opinions?
The Vernon were always Whigs, but never
Radicals.'

He does not hold them. He is sorry that
anyone holds them, and he is sorry that the
great nobles who stay away from their estates,
as you do, give agitators an excuse to make the
people hold them.'

I am not sure that my example would be
more edifying if I lived on them. If you will
not let me carry that poor little beast for you,
will you let me mount you in my saddle ? You
are tired, though you will not own it, and you
will be able to carry the cub much more comfortably
for himself, which is no doubt the
argument which will have most weight with
you.'

It was not easy to persuade her, but she did
at last consent, and sprang with rapidity on to
the horse's back, scarcely touching Guild troy's
hand. He put the little fox up in the saddle in
front of her, and, thus laden, the horse paced
slowly over the elastic turf, his master walking
at his head.

What a beautiful child ! ' thought Guilders,

as he studied her features and her form. She
was tall and lithe, and admirably made, like a
young Diana ; her feet were small and slim, her
throat beautifully set upon her shoulders, all her
features were harmonious, and her eyes were
so large and lustrous that they would have
made a plain face handsome ; her expression
had a curious mingling of innocence, self-will,
candour, pride, intelligence, and childishness ;
her smile was like sunlight, frank and lovely.

In a year or two she will be the most
beautiful woman in England,' he thought, ' and
what a fine character, too ! '

He was not in the habit of noticing young
girls at all. He, on the contrary, shunned
them. He liked women who amused him, who
could treat him de puissance a puissance who
could bring into their conflicts with him wit,
finesse, and experience. This was the first
very young woman of his own rank at whom
he had ever seriously looked, and there was
something in her which charmed and interested
him. The tranquillity in danger which she had
showed, and the self-possession and simplicity
which were characteristic of her manner seemed
to him to be the acme of high breeding, whilst

joined to them were a naivete and a childishness
only possible to one who had led the simplest
of rural lives, and been little amongst women.

He knew the name of John Vernon, though
ever since his own boyhood it had been unspoken
in his world. He remembered hearing
what fine scholarship, what rare accomplishments,
and what elegant dilettanteism had
vanished with this man from society when a
total and voluntary loss of fortune had sent
him into seclusion and oblivion, by the world
forgot if not the world forgetting. And this
was his child — it was not wonderful, he thought,
if she had rare and delicate excellencies both of
form and mind.

And have you always lived here .^ and on
my land .^ ' he asked her, as he led the horse
along through the golden haze made by the
morning sun.

No, only ten years. We lived by the sea,
thirty miles away, first of all. That is what I
first remember. The sea ran very high one
winter's night and washed away our house, and
my father had only just time to save me and
some of the books. I can recollect it. They
woke me and carried me out wrapped up in

the blankets, and I saw the great wall of water
rising up above me ; and I heard the crash of
the house sinking ; yes, I have never forgotten
it. I was five years old. My mother died of
the cold of that night, and soon after we came
to Christslea. My father likes it because it is
so solitary, and has such a big old garden. I
think we pay you forty pounds a year for it
with the orchard.'

I am shocked not to know my tenants.'

'How should you know any tenant when
you are never here ? '

I am here sometimes.'

Oh, yes, when you have a number of great
people, now and then, once in four years.
Myself, if I had Ladysrood, I would live there
all the year round.'

How happy Ladysrood and its master
would be I '

The compliment made no impression on
her.

I am as happy at Christslea,' she answered ;
but I should like to see your great galleries,
and the beautiful ball-room with the frescoes,
and that staircase with the carving by Gaining
Gibbons — it must be an immense pleasure to

own a beautiful old house. I have heard a great
deal of yours, though I have never seen it.'

You will now come and see it very often,
will you not ? '

It is a long way off, and I have no pony.'

I will send you a team of ponies, or I will
come and fetch you myself

She laughed a little.

'You say that, but you will not do it,
because you always go to Italy.'

Perhaps I shall not go to Italy this year.*

Then I will come and see you,' said Gladys
Vernon frankly.

In such innocent interchange of speech' they
wended their way across the moor to where
the moors became meadow land and orchard
land, and a hilly uneven road went up and
down between high hedges of bilberry and
briony.

That is our house,' she said, as she pointed
to some twisted chimneys and a thatched roof
rising above a tangle of apple trees, elder trees,
and hawthorn trees. The ground all about
was orchard, and the strong sweet scent of the
ripe fruit filled the air.

Guilders stopped his horse at the little

wooden gate which she had pointed out to him,
overtopped with luxuriant dipped shrubs,
between tall privet hedges.

You are safe now,' he said to her, as she
sprung down from the saddle. ' I will bid you
good-day here, and will call on your father
later. Give him my compliments, and say how
much I am indebted to the fox-cub for having
led me to the knowledge of my tenants.'

You have been very kind,' said the girl,
with her hand on the latch of the wicket.

'I have been very fortunate,' said Guilders ;
'but if you will allow me a parting word of
advice, do not wander so far alone. It has
ended well this time, but it might end not so
well. You are too ' — he was about to say too
handsome, but checked himself, and said instead
— ' too young to roam about unattended.
Demos is about everywhere, you know. By
the way, what will you do with your protege
the cub?'

I shall keep him in the garden.'

Like Sir Eager de Coverley's hares.'

She smiled as at the mention of a dear old
friend.

She gave him her hand with another of those

smiles which made her more than ever like the
Eomney, and disappeared into the green twilight
of the trimmed garden ways behind the
wicket.

What a charming child ! ' he thought ; ' and
she treats me much as she might treat the old
carrier who crosses the moors, or the huckster
who buys the orchard apples ! '

CHAPTER y.

Where have you been, my dear, all these
hours ? ' a voice said from the green twilight of
the tangled boughs and bushes.

That is my father ! Wait a moment,' said
the girl. And she pushed the branches aside
and ran to him.

Guilders heard her rapidly narrating her
adventure and speaking of him by name ; and
in a few moments' time John Vernon came
through the leaves and the shadows. He was a
slight well-made man, with a scholar's stoop in
the shoulders, and a scholar's brow and eyes ;
he was very pale, and his step was feeble, but
he had a smile which was infinitely engaging in
its brightness, and there was humour, too, about
the delicate lines of his mouth ; he had once, like
Ulysses, known well the cities and the minds of
men.

My dear Lord Guilders,' he said, as he

stretched out his hand, ' I am infinitely obliged
to you for having brought home my truant.
She is growing much too old to wander like
this, but I cannot get her to believe it ; and
her education, in some ways, has been sadly
neglected. Come in the house — your house,
by the way — and let me understand better
what has happened. Gladys has gone to carry
this new protege to the cow's stable.'

Guilders, won by the tone of the voice
which addressed him, followed the speaker
indoors, leaving his horse at the gate.

He said something to the effect that whatever
the means of education the result obtained
was admirable.

You must not say that,' replied her father,
with a smile. ' You are very kind if you think
it, for my poor little girl, though she is not unpossessed
of some learning, is wholly ignorant
of all that a polite society requires in children
of her age, and I make no doubt that she
treated you with very scant ceremony. I
ought, you know,' he continued with a sigh,
to send her to my people to be instructed in all
the decencies of society, and brought out into
the world. But I hesitate to do so. The child

would be wretched amongst a number of distant
relatives. I am poor, as you know. She
would have to take the position of a Cinderella,
and she would not take it ; she is too proud, too
used to freedom, and, in her own way, to sovereignty,
for she does precisely as she pleases in
this cottage.'

She has an admirable manner,' said Guilders,
' only such a manner as high-breeding
gives untaught. Is it indeed true that I
have the honour to be your landlord, Mr.
Vernon ? '

Quite true ; and we have had your house
ten years ; it would not suit many people
because it is so far away from civilisation, but
it does suit me chiefly for that reason. You
appear to be very little acquainted with the
extent of your property. It is well that you
have so good a steward.'

I cannot think it safe for her to be alone,'
said Guilders. ' She has not even a dog with
her Would you allow me to send you a mastiff
or a deerhound ? '

There is a dog ; we have a fine one ; but
he had lamed himself, and so was not about
with her as usual. No ; she must learn to stay

within bounds, and pay the penalty of losing
the happy immunity of childhood. She will be
seventeen in another month. It is your luncheon
hour, I imagine. We are primitive people
and we dine at this time. If you will stay I
shall be very pleased. My old housekeeper can
roast a capon, and I have some good Rhenish
wine still to offer you. Civitas misers.'

Guilders consented with much more willingness
than he displayed to the invitations of
the great world.

The dining-room was a small, square plain
room, which had been coloured grey by a
village plasterer ; but John Vernon, in idle
moods, had covered the walls with classical
figures drawn in black and white, and it had a
look of good taste, enhanced by the old silver
plate on the round dining-table and the autumn
flowers set in a grey Flemish pot, which filled
the centre.

'When you have only sixpence to spend
you may as well buy a well-made thing as an
ill-made thing,' said John Vernon, as his guest
complimented him ; ' and if you have only
Michaelmas daisies and dahlias to set out, you
may as well see that they harmonise.'

VOL. I. G

He did the honours of his homely table
with perfect grace and simplicity. His guest
understood whence the girl had taken her highbred
repose. The repast was very simple ; a
plain soup, fish fresh from the sea, prawns
stewed in sherry, and the capon Vernon
had spoken of; but he had seldom enjoyed
any banquet better. The keen air of the
moors had given him an unwonted appetite.
Gladys had changed her gown to a frock of
white serge, and had tied back her abundant
hair with a pale ribbon. She spoke very little
in her father's presence, but she had so lovely
a face, with a colour in her cheeks like that of
the wild rose, that Guilders almost preferred
her silence ; it became her youth ; and the reverence
she showed her father was touching
and uncommon in days when English girls
are chiefly conspicuous by their insolence and
their forwardness. However self-willed or
high-spirited she might be to others, to John
Vernon she was gracefully deferential and submissive
in an unusual degree.

He was stirred to a novel sympathy with
this lonely, scholarly gentleman, shut away
from the world under the boughs of Somerset

apple orchards, and the child who had the
beauty of the Eomney Hamilton and the life
of a young peasant. Her personal beauty
pleased him ; the one as much as the other.
She knew nothing of the complications of life ;
she had lived on these lonely moors, as Miranda
on her isle, and she had the intrepidity and
the independence of a Rosalind.

Are you never dull here ? ' he asked her.

Oh, never,' the child answered, with some
indignation. 'There is the garden, and the
orchard, and I have a great many books, and
I have a boat all my own down on the sands.
If people are dull,' she added with the happy
certainty of youth, ' they must be stupid themselves.'


I am often dull,' said Guilders. ' I do
not wish to accept your theory of the cause
of it.'

Why should you be dull ? Have you had
any misfortune ? '

One big one, perhaps.'

The death of any one ? '

Her voice was full of ready sympathy.

Oh, no ; only that I enjoyed all things too
early, and too completely ; a reason with which

G 2

you would have no patience, even if you could
understand it, which you could not.'

My father says when we cannot have
understanding we should at least have indulgence.'


A gentle doctrine ; few practise it. Would
you be indulgent to me ? '

Gladys does not understand how you can
want indulgence,' said John Vernon. ' The lord
of Ladysrood seems to her to be higher and
happier than kings.'

When will you bring her to Ladysrood ? '

We never leave home.'

You must make an exception for me,' said
Guilders, as he saw how the child's face
changed in a moment from eager expectation
to disappointment.

We are hermits,' replied Vernon. ' I have
forgotten what the outer world is like, and
Gladys has never seen a glimpse of it. We
count time by the blossoming and the gathering
of our rennes and king pippins. There
are more unpoetical ways of reckoning its
flight. I forgot; we have a sun-dial, but it
stands in the shade and is no use to us, like
some people's lives to their possessors.

'Please do not suggest discontent here,' he
added in a low tone. ' It is the curse of modern
life. As yet it has not passed this little wicket,
and I shall thank you not to raise the latch
for it.'

'Forgive me,' said Guilders; 'I spoke
thoughtlessly. ' I should indeed regret a meeting
which has given me so much pleasure if I
were the means of letting a snake creep into
your orchard grass.'

He found in his host the most captivating
of companions. Although long self exiled
from the world, Vernon had lost none of
his interest in its changing fortunes ; a great
scholar, he yet had no disdain for the topics of
the hour, and from his solitude under the
apple-boughs of his orchard had never ceased
to follow with keen eyes the movements and
the portents of the political world. He was
pleased to find himself once more in the company
of a man of the world, and his conversation
fascinated and interested his guest in no
little degree ; it had a flavour as rare and as
pure as the old wine which he had brought
up from his cellar.

After dinner they sat awhile in the little

garden overhung with reddening leaves and
full of autumnal blossoms. The sun had come
out and shone on the warm, red brick-work of
the cottage where the thickness of the ivy
parted. Guilders was unwilling to take his
departure ; the scene was novel though simple,
and his newly-made acquaintances aroused his
interest. Moreover, John Vernon talked well,
with a depth of thought, an aptness of quotation,
and a freshness of opinion which had its
charm, and would have had it, even had his
guest not had always before his eyes the picture
of Gladys seated a little way off on a beehive
chair, with the head of the lame dog leaning
fondly against her knee. With reluctance he
left Christslea as the clock in the church tower
half a mile off tolled four.

He was pleased, interested, and angered
with himself that such a man should have been
resident on his own lands so long and wholly
unknown to and unnoticed by him. As he
rode through the cold, dusky shadows of the
moors, fitfully lighted by a moon which played
at hide and seek with the clouds, he saw always
before him the child's face of Gladys Vernon,

with its brilliant resolute eyes, which grew so
soft when she looked at her father.

Since I must marry, why not marry her ? '
he thought with a complex impulse, made up
half of physical attraction and half of a higher
admiration.

CHAPTEE VI.

GuiLDEROY made a brief apology to his sister for
being so late, and sat down to dinner ; throughout
it he was silent and abstracted. When the
coffee had been brought and the servants had
withdrawn, he said abruptly, as he walked up
and down the room :

'You say a woman is wanted in this house.
Well, I have seen one whom I shall marry.'

Good heavens ! ' cried Lady Sunbury, as
she rose from her chair in the intensity of her
amazement.

At least she is a child,' he added.

'A child! I suppose you mean some jest.
I am so stupid that I cannot guess the point
of it.'

No ; I am not joking at all. I have seen a
perfectly beautiful person whom I am disposed
to marry. I imagined that you would be
pleased,' replied Guilders, which showed that.

despite his experience in women, he knew but
little of their characters.

Good heavens ! ' cried Lady Sunbury again.
'Is it a turf-cutter's daughter, or one of the
gypsies ? '

No ; it is neither. Do not alarm yourself.
She is the daughter of John Vernon, a very
noble gentleman who has been living here
ten years without my knowing it.'

As you never take the trouble to visit your
neighbours '

I shall visit one neighbour tomorrow and
take you with me.'

Good heavens ! ' said Lady Sunbury a
third time. 'You actually speak as if you
were serious ! '

I am quite serious.'

He proceeded to tell her the story of the
fox-cub and the cabin.

She listened with astonishment in her eyes
mingled with a look of strong censure. She
saw nothing but absurdity in it. She was a
courageous woman and a humane one, but
neither quality as evinced in the narrative
touched her. It seemed to her high-flown,
idiotic, altogether in bad taste.

'Girls who live with their fathers alone
always run so wild and become so queer,' she
said, when he had ended his tale. It was the
only remark which she considered it called for
from her.

Guilders laughed, with some sense of
anger.

What ill-natured things a woman always
contrives to say ! I should have thought the
fine courage of the child would have pleased
you.'

I suppose she is pretty ? ' she inquired
stiffly and with significance.

He laughed again.

She is very handsome,' he answered. ' You
will see her tomorrow. We will go over to
Chris tslea.'

How very impetuous you are ! One would
think you were a boy of eighteen ! '

It is delightful to be stirred to impetuosity.
It is a relic of youth. I feel very young
since five o'clock this evening.'

It is really intolerable ! ' said Lady Sun-bury
; she could not yet bring herself to believe
that he was in earnest.

You must remember the story of Vernon

of Liana rth better than I, since you are older
than I. You were in the world at the time and
I was a boy.'

'I have no recollection,' said his sister
coldly, annoyed at the allusion to her increasing-years.


You will have, if you think a moment.
He was a very clever and popular man, a great
scholar, and rich ; all the family are rich ; and
he gave up everything he possessed, wholly,
voluntarily, and with magnificent magnanimity,
to dower the widows and orphans of four
hundred men who were drowned by an underground
river bursting into a coal mine which
he possessed in South Wales. He considered
that he had been to blame in never visiting a
property which was on a portion of his lands,
and that if he had given more personal attention
to it his engineers and superintendents would
have been more vigilant, and the catastrophe
might not have occurred, as the weakness of the
side next the river would have been known
and provided for. The mine itself was totally
destroyed, of course — an immense loss to him ;
and he gave up all the rest of his fortune to
provide for over a thousand helpless people.

Everyone called him a madman ; but neither
the world nor his family changed his intentions.
He disappeared from society, and has maintained
himself ever since, I believe, by writing
for scientific and historical reviews and other
learned works. When I heard his name I remembered
the generosity and quixotism of an
action which I very much admired in my
boyhood.'

It was no more than his duty,' remarked
Lady Sunbury, coldly, when his enthusiasm
was spent.

And how many of us do our duty ? ' said
Guilders. ' And is it not always easy to find
sophistries which will relieve us of it ? I do
not believe either that it was anything so cold
as a sense of duty ; it was a gentleman's instinct
to suffer anything rather than let others suffer
through him.'

The heritage of such fine and sensitive
honour as Vernon's seemed to Guilders the
richest dower that any young girl could bring
with her to any race ; and he said so with
some vehemence and reproach.

You are always Athenian in knowing what
is right,' said Lady Sunbury, dryly. ' Certainly

you would be the last man on earth to do anything
in any way similar.'

I do not presume to pretend that I should.
But if there be one thing which I admire more
than another,' said Guilders angrily, ' it is men
who sacrifice themselves to what they consider
the duties of property. John Yernon did it ;
Aubrey does it ; I do not do it because I have
neither the force of character nor the strength
of belief which would move me to do it. But
I admire it ; and when I saw John Vernon today,
I saw a hero.'

Because the hero has a good-looking
daughter ! '

What a disagreeable person you can be,
Hilda!'

When I do not flatter you.'
'No. I detest flattery; when you throw
cold water on any rare enthusiasm which maybe
fortunate enough to revive in one's chilled
soul.'

You are generally enthusiastic when you
have seen a new face which pleases you for the
moment.'

Here it was courage which pleased me
quite as much as beauty.'

He has been here ten years, and the
cottage is rented at forty pounds,' continued
Guilders with anger at himself. ' He must
have paid me actually four hundred pounds !
Good heavens ! A man to whom I should have
been charmed and honoured to give the best
estate that I possess rent free ! '

Many things may happen on our properties
that we regret, if we never inquire into what is
done on them,' said his sister coldly.

Pray spare me a sermon ; I had one yesterday
from Aubrey, and one from this child
to-day. After all, Mr. Vernon would certainly
not consent to hive rent free however much I
wished it ; and had I been aware he was there,
perhaps he would not have stayed. He will
know no one, they say.'

All is for the best, no doubt,' said Lady
Sunbury in a tone which strongly suggested
the contrary. 'If he had known the county
people like a reasonable being, his daughter
would not have been likely to interest you by
her adventures.'

When the morning came she declined to goto
Christslea.

Whatever follies he may commit now or

hereafter they shall not have my countenance,'
she said to herself in that spirit of which
women of her character consider the display
to be due to their dignity and their families.
Guilders restrained a passionate inclination
to use the same language to her that her
husband did, and went over to Christslea alone.

Lady Sunbury remained at home, having
done what prudence and dignity required of
her. Yet she had an uneasy consciousness that
more real prudence, if less dignity, might have
been shown in accompanying her brother.

She might have prevented or mitigated
some folly. Anxiety and apprehension made
her restless, and she wandered in a desultory
manner, wholly unlike her usual energy and
decision, to and fro through the great house
which had been her birthplace, from whose
future mistress, whosoever she might be, she
would exact such superhuman and innumerable
virtues.

She could not believe, seriously, that
Guilders would make himself so utterly
absurd as he had threatened, and yet intimate
knowledge of his character had told her that
on occasion he could be capable of dangerous

and incredible corps de tete ; a weakness inherited
from the warm Gascon blood of his
mother's race.

Indolent, nonchalant, and easily swayed ashe
was usually, he became at such moments
both strong-willed and deaf to all argument
and persuasion.

Any woman who has to pass her life with
him will need the wisdom of the serpent and
the gentleness of the dove,' she thought
mournfully conscious that remarkably few
women ever possess either.

Lady Sunbury never perceived why it was
that she utterly failed herself to influence the
men belonging to her ; but she had much perception
into the character of other women, and
she saw clearly enough the causes of their
failures.

Meanwhile she passed the forenoon pacing
up and down the numerous galleries and
salons of Ladysrood.

In the middle of the morning she sent for
the land steward, and interrogated him as to
the occupants of Christslea.

All that he told her only served to make
her more angry, because it made the quixotic

folly of Giiilderoy assume a more possible
shape. She heard that John Vernon was of
irreproachable character if of eccentric habits,
and that the causes of his poverty were of the
highest honour to him.

There is a child, is there not— a daughter ? '
she asked.

There is. I have seen her occasionally.
She promises to be very handsome,' replied
the steward, wondering whither these questions
tended.

But very odd, is she not ? '

Not more so than any young girl must be
who is educated by a recluse, and deprived of
all the natural amusements and companionship
of her age and sex.'

I understand,' said Lady Sunbury, with a
shudder.

She could see the girl exactly as she was :
a wild creature without gloves, her brain filled
very likely with godless philosophies, and
her hair never properly brushed ; handsome,
no doubt, or Guilder oy would never have
looked at her or thought twice about her, but
untrained, impudent, and irreligious.

Guilders meanwhile was riding through

VOL. I. H

the woods and across the moorland to the
modest residence of John Vernon.

He was so possessed with one idea, one
desire, that the folly of his errand altogether
failed to occur to him ; the possibility of its
end being disappointment and dismissal never
passed through his mind. All his life women
had taught him and told him that the offer of
his hand would be a favour which could only
be met by the most ardent gratitude. It was
not vanity which moved him, but the sense
that he had a great gift to give, and one which
no living woman would reject.

As he rode his thoughts grew fervid, and
his imagination heated ; he saw ever before
him the face of Gladys Vernon, and a thousand
excited emotions rose in him as he
rode through the brilliant wind-moved autumn
air.

He was certainly about to commit an unspeakable
absurdity in offering his whole future
to a child whom he had seen but once the
day before. But the absurdity of his intentions
did not strike him ; he was too enamoured of
the poetry and romance of them, and the
opposition of his sister had stimulated him to a

promptness of action far from common to an
indolent and undecided temperament.

When he sent in his card at Christslea, he
was at once ushered into the back study, which
John Vernon used, a small room made dusky
by the ivy which shrouded the window, and
with books lying five or six deep on the floor,
while crowded bookcases lined each of the
four walls.

This is very kind to come so soon again to
a solitary,' said Mr. Vernon with his pleasant
smile.

Guilders pressed his hand and answered
without any preface whatever :

It is you who will, I hope, be kind to me.
My dear sir. I come to beg from you the
honour of your daughter's hand in marriage.'

What ! Good God, are you out of your
mind ? ' cried John Vernon : he fell backward
a few paces and stared at his visitor with the
blank stupidity of a bewildered and incredulous
amazement ; he had always heard that his
neighbour of Ladysrood was capricious and
eccentric. Was he left now, he asked himself,
in the presence of a madman ?

It is not complimentary either to her or

H 2

to me that you should be so greatly astonished,'
said Guilders with annoyance. 'Allow me
to repeat my words. I have come over this
morning to solicit the honour of your daughter's
hand. My position is known to you, and
on my character, though it might not satisfy
precisians, you will not find any very serious
stain. I venture to think that my proposals
may not be altogether intolerable to you.'

'It is not that,' said John Vernon, still
breathless. 'It is — it is — the child is a child
she is not of marriageable years, she is a
baby — and good Heavens ! you have only seen
her for ten minutes yesterday. My dear Lord
Guilders, if this be not a joke ; if it be not
part of some comedy, of some enigma to which
I have not the key '

Can you suppose that I should insult you
by jests on such a subject? I was never more
serious in my life.'

'Then I must gratefully and respectfully
decline the honour you propose to do myself
and my daughter,' replied John Vernon with
the tone and air of a person who closes a
subject which cannot be reopened.

Why ? ' asked Guilders, coldly.

'Why?' — Vernon repeated the word in
vague bewilderment. 'Why? Why, I have
a thousand reasons. I have said, she is the
merest child. She knows nothing of you ; you
know nothing of her. How can you ask me
why? My dear lord, it is a kind of insanity.
I may appear discourteous and ungrateful in
declining your overtures so abruptly, but it is
in truth a question which does not bear discussion.'


Every question bears discussion if it carries
no insult with it, and you cannot consider that
my desires insult you,' replied Guilders, who
controlled his temper with effort.

Insult — no. I am sure you do not mean
it as that,' said Vernon, infinitely amazed,
troubled, and annoyed. ' But the mere idea
is intolerable, insane, preposterous. You were
kind to a child yesterday, and this morning
you wish to marry her. Good God ! it is only
a few months ago that she was a baby playing
with a toy lamb. My dear Lord Guilders,
if indeed you are serious, this is midsummer
madness. You have eaten of the drug of Love
in Idleness, and Titania and her crew have
played with you. Go home and laugh at your

freak tomorrow, and thank the Fates that I am
not a man to take you at your word and keep
you to it. Good day.'

I shall not go away until I have received
from you such answer as I wish,' replied
Guilders. The unlooked-for opposition fanned
his new desires into double warmth.

As a visitor you are most welcome to my
house, but it is the only welcome I can give
to you,' replied Vernon. ' I doubt my own
senses when I think of the things you have said,
of the amazing errand on which you have come
here. I still feel as if it must be only in jest
that you are speaking, some jest of which I amas
yet too stupid to see the point.'

'My dear sir,' said Guilders impatiently,
you think me very ill-bred if I could possibly
presume to jest on such a subject. I have
never seen anyone marriageable whom I admire
so much as I admire your daughter, and I
told my sister last evening that I should come
here to solicit her hand in all seriousness.'

Her hand I She is a baby I tell you. A
little rustic. A mere country mouse, with nota
penny to her fortune.'

The daughter of Mr. Vernon, of Llanarth,

has one heritage at least which kings might
envy,' said Guilders with his courtesy grace
and an accent of reverent sincerity.

I thank you,' said Yernon with some
emotion.

He had never supposed that anyone remembered
an act which had always seemed to
him very simple and always absolutely enjoined
by duty and honoiu*.

But there is nothing more for me to do,'
he added, ' than in all seriousness to reply that
I must with regret decline the honour of the
alliance which you propose to me.'

The face of Guilders flushed with anger
and offence.

I repeat that you cannot refuse to allege
your reasons, at least.'

Certainly not : they are simple and obvious.
The child is too young, and you are a stranger
to us both.'

If these be your only reasons they are both
defects which time will cure, if you will allow
me the privilege of intimacy here.'

John Vernon, vexed, perplexed, and uncertain
how to reply to so much persistency, drew
lines with a paper-knife on the blotting-paper

before him and was silent. He did not approve
of what he had heard of the lord of Ladysrood ;
the various stories of the country-side depicted
Guilders as strange, capricious, and negligent
of the duties of his station ; but, on the other
hand, he was admired and esteemed in that
great world which John Vernon had once
known so well, and no graver sins than those
of caprice and self-indulgence had ever been
attributed to him ; he might have been a voluptuary,
but he had always been a man of
honour. It was difficult to reject such a suitor,
and yet he was wholly determined to reject
him inexorably.

Give him Gladys ! ' he thought ; ' why, he
would tire of her in three days ! '

I know what you are thinking,' said Guilders
abruptly. ' You are thinking that I should
treat her ill. I should not ; I do not treat
women ill even when they annoy and weary
me. There is not a woman living who could
complain of my want of regard for her even
when she had lost all power to please me. On
your daughter I will make any settlement that
you please, and place it entirely out of my
power to injure her were I inclined '

'To injure lier materially — yes, I do not
fear that you would ever do that. But there
are so many things that none can promise to door
not to do ; we may control our actions but we
cannot control our feelings, and we often make
others unspeakably wretched through no fault
whatever of our own ; against the wounds of
the affection no possible guarantee can be ever
given ; the laws of marriage are constructed on
the absurd idea that it is possible to do so, and
that is why marriage is the almost universal
failure that we see it is. But you do not want
a disquisition, you want an answer. My dear
lord, I can only repeat what I said before,
that I thank you for the compliment you
pay me, that I apologise to you if astonishment
made me appear discourteous, but that
what you wish is wholly and forever impossible.'


Guilders rose and bowed with a faint
smile :

Forever is a large word. You tempt me
to deceive and to defy you, and to endeavour
to make what I wish wished also by your
daughter against your wish. You refuse me ;
but you could not refuse her.'

John Vernon looked up startled and impatient
: ' You mean that you will make love
to the child unknown to me? It is possible.
She is not a prisoner. But I doubt very much
if, with all your power over her sex and your
experience of them, you would be able to
persuade her to have any secret whatever from
me.'

'Why force me to try then?' said Guilders.
I come to you in all openness and fairness. If
you wil let me visit you on the footing of
friendship, I will take no advantage of it without
your knowledge and concurrence. But I
shall hope, of course, in time to convert you —
and her — to my views.'

John Vernon threw his paper-knife down
with a roughness rare in so gentle a person and
walked to the window. In a few moments he
turned to his visitor : ' I suppose it must be as
you wish,' he said unwillingly. ' But give me
your word that if I admit you here you will
take no advantage of it ; that you will not
see the child out of my presence.'

'I promise that,' replied Guilders. And
he was himself astonished at the sudden intensity
and warmth which his own desires

had obtained from the fanning wind of opposition.


I am perfectly certain that you will not
keep in the same inclinations,' added Vernon.
It is wildly improbable that you should do
so, and I cannot permit the mind of as young
a girl as Gladys to be disturbed by ideas of
which she has no more thought at present than
any one of the red deer fawns on your moorlands.
I am sure you will understand that I
should prefer that you dismissed this strange
fancy altogether from your own mind, and accepted
once and for all my rejection of jour
proposals ; but, if you will not do that, all I
can admit is that you should come here occasionally
as my landlord and neighbour without
allowing the child to have any suspicion of any
ulterior motive in your visits.'

Your stipulations are humiliating,' said
Guilders, ' but I suppose I must accept
them.'

He was amused despite his annoyance at
the unwillingness with which his proposals
were received. No one else in all the world,
he thought, would have failed to accept them
with ardour and gratitude. John Vernon's

attitude moved him to respect and esteem.
Here was at least one man to whom the good
things and the great ones of the world were as
dross.

He left Christslea a few moments later without
seeking to see Gladys that day.



CHAPTEE VII.

When he met Lady Sunbury in the small
Queen Anne drawing-room before dinner she
was infinitely too proud and too offended to
ask him any question, though inquisitiveness
and anxiety were never so strained well-nigh to
bursting in the breast of woman. Guilders,
however, did not keep her very long in
suspense.

You will be very glad for me to pass the
winter here instead of in Italy,' he said, as he
took his cup of tea. ' That is what I am going
to do.'

Lady Sunbury was not glad. Human
nature is full of contradictions.

You will never pass the winter here ! ' she
said, with some violence. ' Never. For you
will never keep in the same mood or the same
mind for two weeks !

I shall keep in this,' he answered. ' And

you will oblige me very much if you will drive
over to Christ sea tomorrow. Holm Vernon
is quite a respectable person, though he has
lost all his money ; indeed, more respectable
perhaps than if he had multiplied it.'

And why should I call on Mr. Vernon ? '
said Lady Sunbury, holding a feather screen
between her and the wood fire with an unamiable
and ominous look upon her high
straight delicate features.

Only because it is usual in the conventional
state of the world to do that sort of
thing,' said Guilders, carelessly, ' and I shall
marry his daughter in February : I told you
last night that I should do so.'

His sister was silent for a few moments.
Her lips turned pale with rage.

And I do not even know her ! ' she said,
in a suffocated voice.

Eeally that is no one's fault but yours,'
said Guilders. ' I asked you to drive there
this morning and you refused. I do not know
her very much myself.'

You must be mad ! '

So Mr. Vernon said, but I believe not ; of
course, one can never be quite sure. There

are insidious lesions in the brain which do not
declare themselves. Many statesmen's actions
which appear unaccountable are really caused
by unsuspected prognosis '

Lady Sunbury interrupted him passionately.

'Do you mean to tell me, with all this
fooling, that you are about to enter on the
most serious act of your life with less consideration
than you would show in buying a
dog.P

It is not so very serious,' murmured
Guilders. ' It used to be thought so in old-fashioned
days, but not now.'

Do you mean that you marry only to
abandon your wife in a week ? '

Mr. Vernon said three days. Nobody
abandons their wife nowadays, I think, except
working-men who empty the savings out of
the tea-caddy and go off to Australia.'

If Mr. Vernon, whatever else he be, is a
man of the slightest sense, he will forbid so
abnormal, so unnatural, so insensate a folly.'

Mr. Vernon has all the will in the world
to forbid it ; but his power is not equal to his
will.'

What ! Does he feel no gratitude, no

sense of honour received, no consciousness of
the immense compliment you pay him ? '

You are exacting. You desire him at
once to be servile and furious. He was
neither. He had an admirable manner, for
which I respect him, and a very slight opinion
of myself, with which I do not quarrel. My
dear Hilda, do not force me to quarrel with
you. It would be so much to be regretted. I
abhor dissensions, and if they are forced on
me I do not very soon forget them. If a man,
well-born and well bred, has a charming child,
who is both lovely and innocent, he would
surely not be guilty of the intolerable vulgarity
of thinking her the inferior of any suitor who
could present himself. What I desire to do
may be, as you say, an insensate folly. Very
possibly it is, and that I shall tell you so one
day, when you will have the only mortal
happiness which never palls — the pleasure of
being in the right. But at present leave me to
my illusions. You may be quite sure they will
not last long. You have never approved of
my ways of life. You probably never will
approve of them, whether I take the paths of
virtue or the paths of vice.'

Lady Sunbury sat silent, pale, and stern.
She would at all times with any other person
pour out in pitiless crescendo the most bitter and
violent reproaches, and bear off the triumph of
the last word at any cost. But with Guilders
she was conscious that there were limits which
she could not pass and retain his affection ; that
a quarrel, if forced upon him, would have no
reconciliation possible summoned in its train.
The sense of that certainty restrained her
bitterest words, for in her own manner she
loved him almost more than she loved the sons
that she had borne.

Of course it is all a jest,' she said, with
much self-control, as she rose and moved away ;
but her lips quivered with anger, and her eyes
were dark with it.

'Not in the least a jest,' replied Guilders,
but he said it carelessly, and did not pursue
the theme, which was mentioned no more between
them that evening.

In the morning Lady Sunbury received her
letters in her own room ; there was nothing of
the very smallest importance in them. They
consisted of circulars, petitions, political gossip,
with a little note from one of her sons at Eton

VOL. I. I

asking for fifty pounds ; but they sufficed her
as an excuse, and she sent word to her brother
that she was extremely sorry, but news had
reached her that morning which would oblige
her to go home at once, taking London on her
way.

I am extremely sorry too,' Guilders
wrote on a slip of paper. ' But you know I
always wish you to please yourself

And she went at noonday.

I wonder you have not more curiosity,'
he said with a smile, as he bade her farewell
on the steps of the terrace.

She deigned to give no reply. But she
had not gone many miles upon her homeward
way before she became conscious of how
utterly her usually ever-present wisdom of
judgment had played her false at this moment.
If pride had not forbade it, she would gladly
have returned.

As the train swept round a bend on the
rocks she saw in the distance the grey spires
and towers of Ladysrood rising from their
reddening forests and purple moorlands, with
the soft sunlit mist of the September morning
shrouding the hills at their back. Little given



to siich emotions as she was, Lady Tilbury
saw them through another mist, which was of
tears.

There is one consolation, however,' she
thought ; ' even if there were anything serious
in what he said, one week of wet November
weather will drive this fancy from his thoughts
and see him in Paris going southward. He
will no more endure an English winter than
the nightingales.'

And yet she regretted more and more that
she had left Ladysrood with such precipitancy
as the train flew on farther and farther over
the breezy downs and wooded wolds of Somerset
and Wilts.

I 2

CHAPTER VIII.

The days which succeeded the departure of his
sister were the quietest which Guilders had
ever passed in the whole course of his life. He
had too effectually slighted and rejected the
society of his county for anyone of his neighbours
to venture to intrude on him. He was
disinclined to invite any guest male or female :
the evenings found him sitting alone at dinner
and reading alone in his library afterwards ;
twice or thrice a week he rode over to Christs-lea.
He was astonished himself at the attraction
the place had for him, at the force with which
this caprice being opposed had now become the
one present object of his life. He had given
his word to John Yernon not to attempt to speak
to the child save in his presence, and he kept
his word ; but the restriction annoyed him, and
by its annoyance stimulated the fancy which

had entered into him until it became something
kindred to passion.

Gladys Vernon captivated his imagination ;
his ideal had always turned towards some mind
wholly untainted by the world ; some character
fresh and candid and untouched by conventionality.
He had created in imagination a
thousand qualities from women which he had
never found in them ; he had wanted at once
passion and purity, high spirit and submission,
romance and ignorance of all the emotions
which make up romance ; he had desired innumerable
utterly opposed and contradictory
instincts and characteristics. Only in this' child
he found, or at the least he fancied that he
found, them united. Her courage, her indifference
and her physical beauty were great, and
the unstudied indifference and frank repose of
her habitual manner attracted his taste and
stimulated his vanity.

Her eyes were as unclouded, her cheeks as
cool, her candour and her serenity as undisturbed,
as when he first crossed the moorland
with her ; to move lier from this repose became
to him a matter of intense moment and interest :
a pleasure which he could not deny himself.

Vernon was very proud. He felt as bitterly
as though it were some merited indignity
the certainty of all that those who had once
known him would say of the marriage of his
daughter to such a man as Guilders. The
world always attributes bad motives, and to the
world it would naturally appear that he had
chosen his residence at Christslea with the
ulterior view of gaining his landlord's title for
his only and portionless child.

For a thousand intensely personal reasons
his pain and irritation at Guilders's proposals
were most sincere, and even for his child's own
sake he would have infinitely preferred that her
path in life should lie in those quieter and
more obscure ways in which he honestly believed
the most content and the least temptation
to lie for any woman. But opposition and
warning only increased the desires and determination
of a character which was used to
immediate attainment of all wishes with little
consideration of who or what might pay for
them.

All the water which Vernon strove to
throw on the fires of this unreasonable caprice
only served to increase them. From being

slightly enamoured Gladys' suitor became ardently
in love. He never once saw lier out of
her father's presence, and John Vernon would
permit him to offer her no present or homage of
any kind.

I have told you he said to Guilders,
more than once that you will not keep in the
same mind over the turn of the year, and I will
not consent to your sowing the seeds of ever
so slight a regret in the heart of the child.
Youth is short enough, you know, without its
being cut prematurely in two by the knife of
disillusion. She might care nothing at all for
you, but on the other hand she might care
much. She has no idea of what the emotions
of life are, and she shall not make their acquaintance
first through pain. You are one of those
who love and ride away ; you can ride away
as soon as you please, but love here you shall
not make.'

The doubt of his stability and sincerity so
often expressed stung Guilders into becoming
more stable and more sincere than he had ever
been in his life. It was not the result John
Vernon either contemplated or desired, although
it was one for which the waywardness of

human nature might have prepared him. But
he had a little forgotten what human nature
was like, having in his hermitage under the
orchard boughs. He had lived so entirely with
the great spirits of the dead that poor modern
humanity, so fluctuating, so fitful, so effeminate
and so little reasonable, scarcely commanded his
sympathies or his understanding. Guilders
seemed to him a man unequal to the great
position and responsibilities to which he had
been called by fate. He honestly disliked the
notion of giving over to him the future and the
happiness of his young daughter. ' He would
not treat her ill ; no, certainly not ; nor with
any roughness or cruelty,' he mused ; ' but there
are so many other ways of making a woman's
heart ache, and the child herself has her faults.
She is not easy to control or to understand, and
then she is so terribly young. Ten years hence
she will be only at the age when most women
begin their life.'

Thus he received his landlord and neighbour
with little cordiality, though he could not
resist on his own part a certain sympathy with
which Guilders inspired him personally. ' If I
were a woman I should be in love with him,' he

thought ; ' but not being a woman I see hin ashe
is, and he has all the defects of his generation.
He mistakes the senses for the passions,
culture for wisdom, pessimism for philosophy,
and languor for superiority to ambition. It is
the stuff of which patricians are always made
in a decadence. It is interesting but it is
powerless. Demos reigns over it, and it avenges
itself with an epigram instead of drawing a
sword.'

You think ill of me,' said Guilders to him
once at Christslea.

No,' said John Vernon ; ' that is far too
strong an expression. You are what you
cannot help being — you are the issue of a
time which does not produce great men.'

I have certainly no pretension to be great,'
said Guilders, not flattered.

That is what I complain of. You ought
to have more than the pretension — you should
have the inner sense, the intimate persuasion
that you are bound to be so. Why does
aristocracy everywhere recede before the mob ?
Because aristocracy has lost faith in itself. In
England the Whig nobles began the surrender.
They have been unable to stop half-way. They

have been compelled to put the Phrygian Capon
their heads.'

I see no difference between Whigs and
Tories or between Tories and Radicals,' said
Guilders. ' They both and all spend their lives
in buttering parsnips and offering them on their
knees to the mob. I will not prepare such
a platter, and therefore I have never entered
public life.'

Public life in England is a very poor thing,
that I grant,' said Vernon ; ' but it used to be a
very grand thing, and if its nobility had been
true to itself it might perhaps have been so
still. Democracy is uninteresting, unintelligent,
untrustworthy, illogical. The doctrine of the
supremacy of mere numbers can never be either
admirable or stable. The crowd is like the
mud and sand of a foul sea shore — impotent to
hold, powerful only to stifle. I quite agree
with you, I wholly agree with you, that when
a great Nobility took off its hat to the mud and
the sand, and said " We are your servants," it
deserved to be kicked as it is being kicked by
its master.'

Why blame me for not doing it, then ? '

I am not aware that I ever did blame you.

I quite admit that where public life has become
such a parody of government that the Premier
must scream like a Dulcamara, or every
Minister make a tour of the provinces like a
negro minstrel, it has come to such a pass that
the scholar must scorn, and the gentleman must
shun, and the proud men of every class refuse
it. But I say that a time which makes its
statesmen mountebanks, and would send a Pitt
and a Burke, if it had them, to be only the
mouthpieces of a caucus, is a time which can
produce nothing great ; and in which its nobles,
if they are too proud to be delegates, become
inevitably what you are.'

And what is that .^ '

A man perfectly accomplished and perfectly
useless, to whom property is a burden
and the world a dull comedy.'

Guilders's face flushed slightly.

I do not dispute the justice of your verdict.
My sister. Lady Sunbury, is always telling me
the same things ; so is my cousin Aubrey. But
what would you have me do ? Public life, you
yourself admit, justifies my dislike of it. I
have no genius with which to make myself remarkable.
My property is left to those who

have much more talent for managing it than I
have. What do yon call being useful ? Breeding
prize-cattle ? opening town-halls ? lecturing
on poetry to the most unpoetical race on earth P
sending youths to the university who will live
to regret that they were ever taken from the
plough ? giving money to build palaces of pleasure
and art for the most ludicrous and coarsest
democracy that ever made pleasure loathsome
and art grotesque, v/ho would play Aunt Sally
with the Venus of Milo, and grin in horseplay
at the Laocoon ? or yielding up good land out
of fear to be cut up into chess-boards of vegetables
to appease the labouring man, in the
illogical belief that people hungering for all I
have will be contented because out of cowardice
I offer them a cabbage ? Which of these things
do you think is useful ? I beg leave to doubt
that any of them would be. Everything which
men of my order do of this kind is done out of
fear. It is a motive by which I will not be inspired.
They are like children trying to make a
dyke against a flood with wooden spades. The
flood is coming on us, and we shall not escape
it, but we may at least await it with dignity. To
consent to fell your ancestral oaks that Hodge

may plant a cabbage the more in their place
is not dignified, and it will do nothing against
the deluge.'

You should say that to the country,' reflected
John Vernon, as Guilders continued
with some warmth :

The Greeks only let their helots loose once
a year ; we have given ours every day of the
year, whether feast or fasting. Never before
was there such abject abdication of birth,
breeding, property, and learning before ignorance
and greed, and the sheer brute force of
numbers. I do not think that any human
force can arrest the ugly rush down Sill of
democracy when once it has begun, but I think
that we may abstain from degrading ourselves
by swearing that we consider it a heavenward
flight. Democracy is envy — envy of every
kind of distinguished excellence. There is
nothing noble, stimulating, or heavenward
about it ; men only pretend that there is, to
obtain a little ephemeral and fictitious popularity.
I do not suppose I am what is called
a Tory, for I care nothing at all about the
House of Hanover or the Church of England,
but I do care about the supremacy of the

fittest, and I do not recognise the fittest in the
howling mob of a manufacturing city, or the
crowds of hinds gathered at a hiring.'

I am altogether with you,' said John Vernon,
' but I should like you to show them that
you are of the fittest. Living in Italy, making
love to innumerable women, and buying statues
and pictures, do not prove it.'

If I distressed myself ever so I should not
affect the result,' said Guilders. ' All the
public functions of English life are become
grotesque. Parliamentary government compels
every statesman to be nothing but a delegate.
There is no real leadership possible. Even the
great Cecil is compelled to bawl to mass-meetings.
Public speaking has extinguished
statesmanship. Can you imagine a Richelieu
or a Warwick, a Sully or a Halifax, consenting
to scream out the explanation of his projects
and his motives to a mob ? Would the solitary
of Varzin rule Europe as he does if he
had to solicit the applause of Bremen porters,
and describe his designs to Lubbock cloth sellers ?
What nation in the mass could ever be capable
of comprehending the delicacy, the intuition,
and the prophetic vision which alone make up

great statecraft? What mob could ever be
able to measure the unseen forces of life, the
science of history, the powers which govern
men ? None ; and democracy, instead of being
an era of peace, will be an eternity of little
wedding wars, because nothing is so productive
of war as ignorance, and then each little war
will be hurried up and ended in a disgraceful
and costly peace, because nothing is so soon
frightened as a crowd, and no one is so willing
to spend as a mob which pays no taxes.'

'Quite true,' said Vernon. 'But I wish
you would say this in the Lords, and not only
in this garden.'

CHAPTEE IX.

Yernon had been very unwilling to visit Lady's
He had refused continual invitations
and entreaties from its owner. But at the last
his own wishes were overborne by the wishfulness
of his daughter to see the place which
had so long filled so large a place in her childlike
imagination. He could not resist the mute
entreaty of her eyes, longing and expressive asa
dog's, and at last, in the ruddy autumn weather,
he consented to be driven over the moors and
through its forest to the great lime-tree avenues
which led to the front entrance of the house.

The light sparkled over the sculptured pinnacles,
the high metal roofs, and the lofty towers
of the composite but noble pile, and the whole
residence wore an air of welcome and gaiety as
they entered it.

Vernon sighed impatiently, as he stood in'
the great central quadrangle. Could not the

master of this palace find some suitable mate
in all the nobilities of Europe, that he must
needs come and take a lonely man's one ewe-lamb
? His was not a selfish nature, but his
heart hardened within him at what seemed to
him the wanton waywardness of Guilderoy*s
caprice.

It was a brilliant day, though cold, and
the reddened woods were glowing in a sunless
pale than usual in an English autumn.
The great house had the sunshine sparkling on
all its many casements, and on its pinnacles,
and crockets, and spires, and on the fold^of the
flag drooping above the central tower. The gardens
were still gay with dallas, and fuchsias,
and tea-roses, and the fountains were all playing,
while the peacocks drew their plumes
over the terrace pavement. All that the place
held, from its armoury to its hot-houses, from
its State apartments where Tudor and Stuart
sovereigns had slept, to its secret hiding chambers
in the thickness of its walls, were all open
to the sunlight and to Gladys Vernon.

She went through them enchanted and
reverent, as though she turned the pages of
some illuminated volume of Froissart or the

VOL. I. K

Sire de Joinville. It was the first historic
house which she had ever seen.

'It is a very noble home,' said John
Vernon. ' Eeally you ought never to be
wearied of it.'

Guilders did not reply.

He was conscious that he did weary of it,
and he regretted it.

It is so bad a climate,' he said after a
pause. 'Vain is depressing despite oneself; if
the house were in Touraine or in Tuscany it
would be perfect.'

Our fathers did not mind climate. I do
not know why we are so sensitive to it,' said
Vernon. ' I am not sure whether it shows
emasculation or increased sympathy with nature.'


'Both, perhaps,' answered Guilders.
And then, probably, their England was in
no way so bad as ours. The centre of it was
not one vast furnace as it is now. You have
only to go to Venice to see how rapidly smoke
changes atmosphere.'

Well, you have no furnaces within a
hundred miles. Be thankful,' said John Vernon.

Meanwhile his young daughter was gazing

about her, with her violet eyes wide open
in eager interest and brilliant with pleasure.
The old house fascinated her. Though she
had seen nothing but the sea and the orchards
by Christslea, she had a passionate love of all
beautiful and ancient things. Of art she knew
nothing by sight, and had only heard of it
through books and her father's conversation,
but she had the instinctive aud unerring sense
of its beauties and excellencies which is born
in some temperaments.

Ladysrood was a treasure house of art;
every generation which had passed away there
had left something to increase the glories of
its heirlooms ; and the present lord himself had
spent half a million of money in adding to its
sculptures, and bronzes, and pictures. It was
one of those palaces of the arts which have so
long honoured England, hidden modestly away
under her woods and in the folds of her low
hills ; and which are now in so many places
being emptied and defiled, that the sound of
the auctioneer's hammer may ring in unison
with the death-knell of great races and of
national honour.

The child looked suited to the house ;

I 2

she wore a plain grey frock with a pale blue
sash, and a wide-brimmed grey felt hat, and
she might have sat to Eomney or Sir Joshua.
She had put in the bosom of her frock some
roses which Guilders had given her ; her face,
alternately serious and pensive, and gay and animated,
was as lovely as any face in the marbles
or the canvases of his galleries. She was only
a child, but he thought that in the mere girl,
fresh with the dews and the breezes of the
country, it was easy to discern the great lady,
the patrician beauty, of the future. She was
now like a crayon sketch of Watts' or Leighton's,
but a few years would make her a portrait
in court dress by Carolus-dura.

She was entirely a child ; the solitude of
her life and its rural pleasures and pursuits had
kept her infinitely younger in many things than
children reared in the world can ever be, whilst
on the other hand the conversation and companionship
of her father had made her mind
graver and more thoughtful than her years.
John Yernon had liked that simplicity and rusticity
and had always forborne from causing any
change in them. He abhorred the new theories
of education for women, and he had preferred

to see his child care for roses, for birds, for
the sea and the moors, for all outdoor things
and outdoor movements, than to see her dissect
a rabbit or hear her discuss protogenesis. He
had always thought of her as a mere baby ;
he had never been disturbed about her future
or her right to see something of that world to
which she by birth belonged. ' It will always
be time when she is grown up,' he had always
reflected ; and that time had always seemed to
him so far off that there could be no immediate
need to think of it.

The habit of being always treated J)y him
as a child had kept her perfectly childlike,
while on the other hand the deference with
which she was treated by the few rustics and
fisher-people who made up her little world
had developed in her the habits of command
and of decision. The opposing influences surrounding
her had made her as little fitted for
actual life as Tennyson's Princess or Coleridge's
Christened ; but it had made her courageous
and candid in an unusual degree ; it had left
her an infantine sweetness and innocence united
to a great daring and seriousness ; it had rendered
her indeed so entirely unlike all other girls or

women that Guilders was not merely yielding
to a romantic exaggeration when he thought
he saw in her an embodiment of Shakespeare's
heroines, with the freshness and the frankness,
the simplicity and the strength of a more unsophisticated
and heroic time than her own.

How charming is a young creature who
has seen nothing, and is ready to understand
everything instinctively,' he said to her father
when she had lingered behind them to look at a
scene which had especially charmed her fancy.

Vernon smiled a little dubiously.

You think so now because you happen to
be in the mood to appreciate it, but in a little
while you would find it monotonous, insipid,
and uncultured. You would grow very tired
of a mind which needed to have everything
explained to it, and you would sigh for somebody
who could catch your allusions flying.'

You speak of your daughter as though
she were a dairymaid,' Guilders said with
indignation.

John Vernon laughed.

'Oh no ; I appreciate her, perhaps more
thoroughly than you do. I even grant that she
is a charming child in many ways, and the kind

of ignorance she has pleases me ; if it had not
done so I would have taken steps to change it.
But if you ask me whether I consider her a
companion for a man of the world who lives in
the world, I must say I do not. She would
grow to his height in time no doubt, but he
would have got fatigued of waiting for her long
before she had reached there.'

You are very obstinate.'

'Nay, I am not more obstinate than you,
and I have more reason to be so, for I have
more at stake.'

You will persist in regarding all I feel asa
caprice.'

'It is a caprice,' said Vernon with some
impatience as his young daughter came up to
them.

She had been enchanted with a little picture,
a David Cox, which chanced to represent
the creek below Christslea with its apple orchards
and its red sandstone cliffs, and this
sudden finding and recognising of a piece of
lier own home landscape had seemed to hera
miracle which she could in no way forget.
Her enthusiasm amused her father, and touched
and charmed her host.

It would make the old painter happy in
his grave if he could hear you,' said Guild troy.
David Cox loved England as you do. Most
of his green lanes, and gorse-covered commons,
and moss-grown water mills are swept away by
the curse of modernity, but that little creek of
Christslea is not changed, I think, by so much
as a wind-blown tree, the less or the more ;
even the boat he has drawn on the sand looks
like an old red boat which is used to fish with,
there to-day. The man is dead, and the boat
is there.'

It is wonderful,' said Gladys in a tone of
awe. 'It is not six inches long this little
picture, and yet the whole creek is there, and
one sees miles, miles, miles, out over the open
sea, just as one does when one stands on the
sands.'

That is Art the Magician,' said Guilders.
We are so used to the sorcery that we forget
the wonder of it. We want fresh eyes like
yours to see it for us.'

You will surely let me give her that little
water colour ? ' he asked of Vernon when she
was again a few yards away from them.

No, by no means,' said the other almost

rudely ; the persistency of Guilders annoyed
and irritated him ; he was provoked that a
man who had the whole world of women to
choose from, must needs take a fancy to a
country child who was as simple and untrained
as a plant of sea lavender.

Luncheon was served in the small diningroom
belonging to the Queen Anne suite of
apartments, and when it was over John Vernon
asked leave to return to the library, through
which he had only passed hastily, and which
was celebrated for its collection of State papers
of the Tudor time, made by a learned earl in
one of the previous centuries.

It was a noble room, though somewhat
dark. It belonged to the oldest part of the
house, and had deep embrasured windows, and
walls and ceiling of carved oak. The catalogue
of the books and manuscripts was a work of
learning and care, as famous to bibliophiles as
the collection itself. John Vernon was soon
absorbed in its pages. It was a large folio
lying open on a brass lectern. Guilders took
advantage of his preoccupation to lead the girl
to the other end of the room, where there was
a beautifully illuminated Horas of the fifteenth

century under lock and key in a glass-case.
While lie turned the leaves over and explained
to her the miniatures and allegorical borders he
looked at her with a lover's eyes. She had
taken off her hat, and the rebellious waves
and curls of her hair shone in the pale light
from one of the windows. Her eyes looked
at him with the single-minded regard of a
child of five years old. Her lips were parted
as she listened, and the fairness of her throat
looked like a lily beside the grey wool of her
frock.

'After all,' he thought as he gazed down
on her, ' there is nothing so bewitching as the
morning of life ; and old Herrick is right —

Gather your roses while ye may,
Old Time is still a-flying !

With scant regard for the priceless Horas
he had taken it from its double case and carried
it into the embrasure of one of the windows,
and he sat beside her, while the missal lay on
her lap.

One of the miniatures was the marriage of
St. Catherine with the child Jesus. Lilies and
roses formed the border, and doves nested in
twisted olive boughs above.

That is very beautiful ! ' said Gladys ; ' and
the doves are just like my doves at home.'

There is a dove which rests in the hearts
of all of us some time or other,' he answered.
Its name is love. Have you ever thought
whether you would give it welcome ? '

She looked at him in perplexity.

No,' she said, slowly. ' At least, I am not
sure. I love my father. Is that what you
mean ? '

That is not at all what I mean,' said Guilders
with a smile as he glided on to one knee
before her, and held the missal on her lap He
was in no haste to dispel this unconsciousness,
it pleased him. It was so wholly simple and
sincere. Any counterfeit of it would have
been odious and contemptible, but the reality
was lovely, grave and frank and sweet ; as
natural as the innocence of the dove.

Tell me more stories,' she said, turning a
page of the Book of Hours.

His attitude did not trouble her ; she
thought he kneeled there to hold the heavy
missal better.

Guilders did not reply ; his eyes were
dwelling on the youthful face above him, and

he felt a passionate desire to cover it with
kisses and to change the cool, faint colour of
its lips and cheeks. He cast a rapid glance
to where John Vernon at the other end of the
room stood, with his back to them, bending
over the lectern. The sun of the autumnal
afternoon came through the leaded panes behind
her, and shone about her head, giving it a
shining nimbus and changing the grey of her
fawn to silver. Her face was in shadow, and
her dropped eyelids as she looked down on the
book showed the deep dark line of the lashes,
and gave her the grave and religious loveliness
of some young saint.

Would you love me a little ? ' he asked,
leaning nearer, while his voice had the persuasive
appeal in it which no woman to whom it
had ever been addressed had ever resisted.

She was a little startled. Her eyes left
the study of the Horse and looked with bewilderment
at him.

I do not know,' she stammered, while,
without her knowing why, her cheeks grew
hot ; ' I do not know. What do you mean ?
Why should I ? '

Because 1 love you,' he answered, with an

infinite caress in the words, which are so old
and yet are ever so new. ' Will you love me ? '
he asked her ; ' and live with me here ? '

She looked at him with serious and doubtful
eyes.

Live here — at Ladysrood ? ' she asked.

Well, yes ; a few months out of the year
not more. I will be honest with you. But
could you be happy with me, do you think ? '

I should like the house,' she said with
hesitation, but with unflattering honesty.

Would you not like me also ? ' said Guilders.
His words were light, but his eyes
were eloquent, and startled the child's calm
soul. Quite suddenly, and for the first time in
her life, a blush like the rose of dawn spread
over her face and throat. She could not have
told why, nor said what she felt.

I do not know,' she stammered, and her
eyelids fell.

I will teach you to know,' murmured
Guilders, and he drew her gently towards
him, and kissed her.

CHAPTER X.

Five minutes later John Vernon closed the catalogue,
and turned and saw them.

'Lord Guilders, I had your word,' he
said with great anger. ' Could I suppose that
you would betray me in such a manner as this?
It is wholly unworthy of you — and in your own
house also ! For shame ! '

Guilders's face flushed a little.

You are very severe. Can you make no
excuse for temptation ? I quite admit that I
have broken my word in the spirit, although
not in the letter — since you were present. Is
it worth while to make a quarrel of what cannot
be unsaid now ? Ask your daughter.'

The child stood looking from one to the
other with some timidity. She did not wholly
understand even now what it was which made
her the subject of dissension. She was bewildered

; afraid, and yet happy. The dark
library seemed to her full of golden light.

Gladys, is it possible that you wish to
leave me — and for a stranger ! ' said her
father, with pain and reproach in his voice
and his heart.

She hung her head, and her face burned
with changing blushes.

'It is not very far away,' she murmured
almost inaudibly.

John Vernon understood that she was lost
to him, and that to strive against fate any
longer was useless.

CHAPTEE XI.

I SWEAR that I will make your daughter
happy, if human means can command happiness,'
said Guilders a little later when they
were alone.

For six months perhaps,' said Vernon with
impatience.

^ Why do you doubt me so ? ' said Guilders,
offended and pained.

I do not doubt you in especial. You are
possibly gentler and kinder than most men.
But you are mortal, and you cannot prevent
the divergence of character, the satiety of
habit, the destruction of illusions, the growth
of new passions — all that is inevitable inhuman
nature, and in utter defiance of which
marriage, the supreme idiocy of social laws,
has been made eternal ! '

You are not encouraging.'

I desire so little to encourage,' said John

Vernon with some violence, ' that if you will
take back this evening the promise you have
given my child this afternoon, far from blaming
or reproaching you, I shall thank you. She
does not care for you. You flatter and dazzle
her, and she is in love with your house, but
she would forget you in a week if you withdrew
your word. Withdraw it ; both she and
you will be spared much sorrow.'

Your prophecies are painful to me,' said
Guilders ; ' but I will risk their realisation.
I think she loves me already as far as a child
of her years can understand love. She would
be less innocent than she is if she loved me
more. I have had enough of passion — too
much of it. I desire repose.'

And in six months' time you will say, " I
am tired of repose ; give me passion." '

And do you think so lovely a creature
incapable of inspiring it ? '

I think she will be incapable of inspiring
it in you because she will be your wife,' replied
John Vernon.

His heart was heavy and his forebodings
were founded on his knowledge of mankind.
He was well aware that his dislike to such a

VOL. I. L

marriage for his child was ingratitude to fate,
and would have seemed to most men a kind of
madness. He was well aware that the future
of his young daughter had been often a subject
of disquietude and anxiety to him, and
that, in a worldly sense, no destiny more brilliant
than this now offered could be desired
for her.

But he despised worldly advantages. He
had learned to know that happiness comes from
within, not Without. He considered that the
contentment which she had learned with himself
to feel amongst simple things and homely
joys was worth more than the pomps and
vanities of a great position. He did justice to
the generosity and gentleness of Guild troy's
temperament, but he did not believe in its
stability or in its loyalty ; nay, he believed
in no man's, because he knew that the affections,
like the senses, are beyond our own
control. He saw a thousand reasons why this
union should become a source of ultimate
regret and unhappiness to both of them. He
saw few probabilities that it would end otherwise
than in estrangement and disappointment
to both of them.

The child is wholly unfit for your position,'
he said angrily. ' She knows the names and
qualities of all the apples in England, and she
knows something of the history of England
from first sources ; but she knows next to
nothing more, and no one wants to hear of
pippins and russets or of Hengist and Horsa
in your world. Go away, my dear lord, and
you will have forgotten that she exists in ten
days' time.

She has not an idea of what you mean,'
he added bitterly. ' Marriage is only a word
to her. She thinks of living in Ladysroq^ as a
child of ^^^ years old would think of it — asa
delightful and roomy play-place. All that
ignorance will excite you and interest you
entirely for a few weeks — I know that — but
at the end of those weeks you will ask yourself
angrily why you took a country child to
make you ridiculous. When you have dissipated
the ignorance, what remains behind will
not interest you in the least. You will begin
to expect a woman's wisdom and patience in
her, and you will not find them — children are
never patient or wise. You think me a prophet
of ill. I am one, certainly. It is utterly

L 2

impossible that a girl like her and a manlike
you can live together without bitter disappointment
and endless friction.'

She is too young ! She is too young ! ' he
repeated to himself again and again that night
on his return from Ladysrood. He had said
nothing to the child alone— what was the use
of questioning her? She did not know her
own heart : how could she answer for it ?

You are not glad ? ' she asked him wistfully
when she came to bid him good-night.
He looked away from her and drew her head
down on his breast and kissed her curls.

I hope you may be as happy, my darling,
with him as you have been with me. I do not
think you can be more so,' he said tenderly,
and said nothing more. What use was it to
alarm her young soul with suggestions of perils
and sorrows which she would be wholly unable
to understand? Life looked to her like
the gilded and illuminated pages of the Lady's
missal. Why tell her that these pages
would be stained and blotted by tears ?

In the little parlour of Christslea Guilders
and John Vernon sat long in conversation that
evening.

Neither convinced the other.

The incipient friendship which had begun
to grow up between them had been disturbed
and diminished by the precipitancy of the one
and the opposition of the other. Vernon considered
himself dealt with in bad faith, and
Guilders grew impatient at the discontent
with which his proposals were received.

Does he think it would be a happier fate
to have all her youth pass away in this little
combe by the sea with no companions but the
gulls and the rabbits ? ' he thought, with a not
unnatural sense that the immense gifts brought
in his own hands were too little appreciated,
whilst yet he respected all the more a man
who accounted material and social advantages
as of so little avail.

It was in vain that he offered the most
princely presents to her and promised to render
her, as far as fortune went, wholly independent
of himself.

John Vernon heard all this with little
patience.

'I do not doubt your generosity or your
justice,' he said more than once. ' I have told
you before, I am convinced that you are nota

man to injure or to defraud a woman.
But against what I fear you can give no possible
guarantees. You wish for Gladys at this
moment as you have wished for a hundred
women before her and will wish for a hundred
women after her. You will tell me that you
feel differently to her to what you have done
to others, and no doubt you believe it ; but
you are mistaken. You feel precisely the same,
and your caprice will pass as all your other
caprices have done.'

Will you not allow me even to know my
own emotions ? ' said Guilders with anger
And will you tell me what greater proof any
man can give of the honesty of his emotions
than to desire to make anyone his wife whom
he loves ? '

That is quite true,' replied her father,
and I do not question your present sincerity —
I cannot do so in face of the evidences you are
willing to give of it. But I do not think that
your emotions are of the kind you fancy them,
and I am wholly certain that my poor chill
will not have the knowledge, the character,
or the education in her which could alone
enable a woman to keep her hold on the

affections of such a man as you. Remember
what the Master of Love said —

Ut levis, absumtis palatin various, ignis
Ipse late, summon cadet in igne cenis ;

Sed tamen extinct, admoto sulphur, lammas
Invenit, et hymen, quod fait ante, redit.

My child will not know how to throw the
sulphur on the fading flames, and your fire will
die out on her altar.'

I am tired of the sirens who throw the
sulphur,' replied Guilders. ' " Et puer est,
et nidus Amor." I want the innocence of
extreme youth and the divine nudity, of a
soul which has nothing to conceal. Give them
to me and I will respect them.'

John Vernon sighed impatiently and abandoned
the argument.

He did not doubt the entire good faith of
his companion, but he was none the less certain
of the truth of his own predictions. Guilders
wished for these things as a child wishes
for playthings, but they would have no more
power to secure his constancy than the toy
to charm the child for ever. But with love, as
with anger, he knew that it was waste of breath
to argue.

Guillemot had received another letter that
day from Italy which had also irritated him
excessively ; a letter full of those useless reproaches,
those unwise rebukes, those injudicious
and violent demands which are the whips wherewith
women think to scourge to activity a dead
or dying passion. They are usually as futile
as a whip of nettles used on a marble statue.
They were not absolutely ineffective here, for
they succeeded in stinging his soul into anger
and rebellion ; but they utterly failed to accomplish
the purpose for which they were intended.
On the contrary, they confirmed him in the
wish which, half in jest half in earnest, had
moved him to give his life into the hand of
Gladys Vernon.

He was a man of sudden impulses, romantic
fancies, and very hasty action which was united
with an indolent and vaguely philosophic temper.
The letter was imperious, reproachful,
and passionate. It produced on him the opposite
effect that it was intended to produce on
him. It made him angry, irritated, and desirous
to assert an independence which every word in
it refused to him. Guilders, like many men
who are tender of heart and yet unconsciously

selfish, was easily led but was difficult to drive.
If he felt coerced he rebelled instantly. Tact
and persuasion might lead him long, but the
instant he felt that there was any efibrt to
coerce him by force he grew restive, and men
much less amiable and gentle were much easier
to direct and to command than he. His correspondent
made the supreme error of exacting
as a right what had no charm unless it were
voluntary, and claiming as a due what was
nothing if it were not a gift. The wood-dove
was right in his choice, he thought, but only
right as long as his companion pleases hip and
leaves him free. If she fasten a fetter on his
foot the very fussing and fretting of the
sparrows were better than the columbarium in
the clouds.

He shrank from the intent to rule and hold
him which was so visible in the letter he had just
received ; he felt a vehement desire to vindicate
his liberty against the claims which she so obviously
showed her intention to lay upon it forever,
or at least for such a ' forever ' as her pride
and her passion might desire and demand from
the future. He was a Launcelot whom Guinevere
might have bound forever to her girdle if

she had never let hin feel that there was a
chain under the silken leash. But as every
Guinevere had been so rash and so blind as tolet
him feel it and be galled by it, each had in
turn had his allegiance but a brief while. The
Duchess Soria had had it longer than any other.
She had many advantages. She lived farther
away from him than most ; she had greater
beauty than most ; and she had that eminence
of social position which raises a woman so
high that no lover can doubt her sincerity in
her selection of him, or her facilities for replacing
him by others if she chose. These advantage's
had made her reign over his passions
and command his allegiance longer than any
other woman had done. It had been always
understood that if Hugo Soria died, Guilders
would ratify his devotion by marriage ; but he
himself had never cared to contemplate that
probability ; for the rest, Soria was almost
as young as he was himself, and there was no
apparent likelihood of his freeing his wife of
his presence on earth, unless some unforeseen
accident or some duel ending fatally were to prematurely
cut short the measure of his days. Had
he died, the world and Beatrice Soria herself

would have expected her lover to replace him ;
the certainty with which she would have expected
this allowed a too dominant and insistant
tone of appropriation to show now through the
lines of her letter, and raised in the feelings
of its reader that instinct of rebellion which
lies in the breast of all men. His intimacy
with her had lasted years enough for many
faults in her character to have become revealed
to him. He had had time to outlive
the belief in those perfections which every man
who is much in love attributes to his mistress ;
he knew her to be imperious, exacting, and
disdainful when offended. They were defects
which in daily life poison peace more cruelly
than any others.

Beatrice Soria in Paris or Naples, visited at
intervals, and seen only in her superb bloom of
beauty, had a great and irresistible sorcery for
him, but Beatrice Soria as the eternal companion
of his fate would have alienated and have irritated
him unbearably.

Or, at the least, he thought so now, as his
conscience smarted and his impatience rebelled
under the lash of her impassioned reproaches
and recall.

He read her last letter many times when he
sat in the solitude of the library on the evening
of that day. It did not touch his heart ; it disturbed
his temper. It made him feel blameable
and selfish, but it did not make him feel regretful
or repentant. He laid the paper down before
him under the light, and then looked up
from it to the window far off where Gladys had
sat a week or two before and he had held the
great missal upon her knee.

The embrasure of the window was shrouded
in the dark velvet curtains which the servants
had drawn at nightfall, but he seemed to see
her tall, slender, stooping form seated there,
her golden-haired head, her face with its first
sudden blush. He was not in love with her ;
no, it did not seem to him that even yet his
new feeling merited that name, but he was
haunted by the thought of her, distressed by
the desire of her. She was unlike anything of
her sex that he had ever known, and she
seemed already a part of Ladysrood, like its
marble figures of Florence and its old sweet
roses of France.

He hesitated no more, but drew pen and
paper to him and began to answer the letter

which lay under his hand. It was not an easy
task. To say to a woman who loves him that
he not only loves her no longer, but has transferred
his allegiance elsewhere, is painful to any
man who has a conscience and a memory.

He had those vague sentiments of inclination
to the refreshment of repose, of pure
affections, and of family ties which visit at
times all men who have imagination and
emotions, and which are perhaps the most
utterly delusive and misleading of all their
fancies.

Again and again has the mirage of innocent
and lawful joys passed admiringly before the
eyes of a tired man of the world, and has been
followed by him only to bring him to the
desert sands of monotony, of weariness, and of
thraldom.

He was perfectly sincere when he assured
John Vernon of his indifference to the passions
and the pleasures of which his life had
hitherto been so full, and of his wishes for a
simpler, purer, and more legitimate attachment
than those which he had known. But
though he had not any intention of deceiving
others, he did so because he deceived himself,

and took what was a mere passing phase of
imagination for a lasting alteration in his temperament.


Was it true that of this child he really
knew no more than of a shut book, of which
the exterior pleased him ? Was it possible that
with the passing of the years he would grow
farther and farther from her rather than she
nearer and nearer to him ? His reason and his
observation of the lives of others told him that
it was very possible.

Fancy and admiration had hurried him into
an action in which opposition had confirmed
his persistency. But now that in cold blood
he looked at his future, he could not feel sure
that he would never repent an act which gave
power over it into the hands of a child whose
affections even were scarcely his, and of the tenacity
of whose character he had had evidence.

He desired to possess her beauty, and he
was fascinated by the courage and the simplicity
which he saw in her ; but the prophecies
of John Vernon haunted and disquieted him,
and his knowledge of his own temperament
told him that they were not unlikely to be
true hereafter.

How much of mere caprice, of sheer waywardness,
of momentary impatience of existing
ties, and of amusement at irritating the opposition
of his sister had there not been mingled
with the more poetic and personal feelings
which had first sent him to Christslea ?

'After all, it is the folly of life which
lends charm to it,' he thought, but he felt that
if John Vernon had been able to know his
thoughts he would have told him that the love
which does not blindly believe itself to be the
highest wisdom of life has the seeds of death in
it at its birth.

Indeed, he was well aware of it himself.

The warning words produced a vague effect
upon him.

He felt vaguely that the future might
justify them, and although he had been so
self-willed in following out his caprice, he
almost regretted now that fate had granted him
his wishes.

Had he mistaken a momentary desire for a
strength of feeling such as was needed to outlast
the stress of time ?

In vain he told himself that Beatrice Soria
had no claim of any sort upon him ; he knew

that the mere absence of claim constituted her
strongest title to his fidelity ; he knew moreover
that his relations with her had touched
her heart and her passions profoundly whatever
they had done to his own.

He was tired of those relations ; they
had a side to them which wearied and irritated
him; he had resolved in his own mind to go
back to her no more, because recrimination and
reproach had of late formed the staple of her
welcome. Yet the announcement of his marriage
was very difficult to him to make, and
now and again he pushed the paper from him
and leaned his head upon his hands and saw
the eyes of his forsaken love burning on him
through the dark. She had not been alone in
his affections, but she had been chief in them ;
and he knew that he had reigned supreme
in hers. The letter of farewell which he was
compelled to compose seemed a cowardice.
It was the kind of letter which a gentleman
cannot write without feeling that he loses something
in his own self-esteem by writing it ;
indeed, the more truly he is a gentleman the
more acutely he will feel this.

But despite his reluctance and the difficulty

of the task, it was written at last, and when it
had gone away from him irrevocably in the postbag
with which a lad rode fifteen miles over the
moors every morning, he had a sense of relief :
of such relief as comes from a decision taken
without power to undo or to modify it.

What would she answer ?

He counted the days which must elapse before
a reply could reach him, and opened the
letter-bag with anxiety when those days had
passed. To his astonishment he received no
answer at all ; days became weeks, weeks
months, and silence alone followed on hie declaration
of self chosen and deliberate inconstancy.
Such silence made him uneasy and
apprehensive. He knew that it was not the
silence of indifference ; and, if not that, then
what must it portend ?

Once or twice he was tempted to break it
by writing again himself. But this he felt it
was impossible to do ; no man can insist on, or
emphasise by unasked repetition, his own avowal
of mutability and voluntary faithlessness. Silence
was, at least, acquiescence and permission.

He had sought these and he could not
quarrel with receiving them. Meanwhile he

VOL. I. M

felt free to do what lie was bent on doing, and
used all his powers of persuasion to induce
Vernon to shorten his probation.

Vernon was very reluctant to do so.

She does not love you. She does not know
what love is. You mistake if you fancy she
does,' he said to Guilders, who smiled.

I will teach her,' he answered.

Yes,' said John Vernon with pain and impatience,
' and when she has learned the lesson
it will have grown dull to you, and the teacher
will go elsewhere. What is the cause of half
the misery of women ? That their love is so
much more tenacious than the man's ; it grows
stronger as his grows weaker. He desires one
thing which is quickly satisfied; she desires innumerable
things which can never be satisfied,
and among them as the most mythical and the
most impossible she desires — poor soul ! — the
man's constancy.'

Where other men would only have seen
the gain and honour of such a marriage he saw
the grey cloud of possible, of most probable,
unhappiness. As he walked in calm dark
evenings by the little bay beneath his house the
murmur of the waves sounded mournfully on

his ear ; and as he looked up at the attic window
of his daughter's room shrouded in the ivy
of the eaves, it was no mere selfish sense of his
own coming loneliness which made him wish to
heaven that Guilders had never come across
her path.

Happiness is not a thing to be commanded,
he thought with sadness and anxiety, to be
obtained by any ingenuity, or retained by any
obedience to precept or to duty. It is the
most spontaneous thing on earth ; born only
of the sympathies of two natures which mutually
supply each other's needs ; it is like the
sunshine and the shower, and can no more be
brought into human life by any endeavour than
they can be brought on earth by the efforts of
science. Happiness is the dew of the heart,
making all green things spring where once
the soil was barren ; but it is not in human
nature to create it at will, and it is a gift of
destiny like genius or beauty.

True, ingrates mar the gift, as in the fairy
story the talisman is lost by careless keeping ;
but it comes to none at prayer, at exercise of
will : it is a treasure of the gods, and alas !
Deus rider e credo, quum felix vocat.'

M 2

But Vernon's wishes and this regrets could not
stay the flight of time, nor change a caprice which
opposition or warning only served to inflame ;
and before he was wholly sensible that the winter
was gone, violets and hepatica were bloom
in his orchard grass, and the little fishing fleet
was setting out for its springtide harvest of
the sea, and March was ended, and Guilders
claimed from him a promise which he had no
choice but to fulfil.

They were married in the private chapel of
Ladysrood with no one present, by her father's
wish, except himself and the old servants of the
house, and she wore the white cambric frock
which she had for her best for summer Sundays
at Christslea, and about the throat of it were
strings of pearls which Guilders had given her,
and which were worthy a queen's regalia.

The heart of John Vernon was heavy ashe
left them to themselves, and took his way
back to his solitary house through the budding
woods, over the wide moors lying in the pale
afternoon sunlight, while the sound of the more
distant sea came like human sighs through the
rural silence to his ears. There was the scent of
violets on the wind and the golden gleam of gorse

in the landscape ; ever and anon he came in sight
of the sea, grey and still, red sails and white
crossing it noiselessly. The day was clear and
soft and mild, the scene was fair, and yet the
sense of a great sadness weighed upon him
as he left his child the mistress of all these
spreading woods and stately towers and pleasant
gardens which lay behind him under the pale
grey skies.

The world, he knew, would tell him withall
its myriad voices that he had, in his solitude
and poverty, had a stroke of the most marvellous
good fortune, a social triumph such as most
would prize and covet beyond all things. But
John Vernon did not see as the world sees, and
he would with much surer confidence and
greater joy have known that his daughter had
gone to a lowlier fate, where the world would
have never given her that crown of envy which
is so often a crown of thorns. Never again
would the little simple things of life make her
happiness ; never again would she run through
the wet grass a mere careless child, happy because
a lamb was born, or a sea mouse was
washed up by the tide, or the first daffodils
were blowing under the trees of the orchard.

The world despised such simple things, but
then was the world right ? Would that collar
of pearls which was fit for a queen give her in
truth half the pleasure that her daisy chains
had given her in the meadows under the apple
bough ?

Nay, I grow old and shall feel lonely, and
so see all things in shadow. Life can stand still
with none of us, with her no more than with
others,' he told himself as he walked over the
moors, and he looked at the yellow gorse shining
before him in the light of the afternoon,
and tried to hope that ' straight was a path of
gold ' for her.

CHAPTEE XII.

My dear Hilda,' wrote Guilders to his sister,
I am about to marry the daughter of Mr.
Vernon of Llanarth, as I told you in September
that I should do. You have been always
exceedingly desirous that I should marry, only
it was on condition that you should be empowered
to choose the companion of my destinies.
As I am the more interested of the two
in such a choice, I have ventured to make the
selection without applying to you. I should
be sorry if you should persist in quarrelling
with me about it, because there is really no
valid ground whatever for a quarrel. Gladys
Vernon is not a kitchen-maid, a femme three,
or an American adventuress in search of a title,
the only three persons to whom you would, I
think, be justified in objecting vi et armis.
She is quite a child, and I venture to hope that

you will be kind to her. When will you return
to Ladysrood and let her see you ? '

The letter concluded with some allusions to
other matters of less personal interest, and was
signed with affectionate expressions.

It reached Lady Sunbury when she was
staying with a large party with her uncle at
Balfrons. The shock of the intelligence was
increased by her knowledge of her own error
in leaving her brother's house : who could tell
what influence she might not have had if she
had remained with him .^ The fact that she had
not the very slightest kind of influence on
Guilders at any time did not occur to her
remembrance. She was a clever woman, but
like many clever people she had no just
estimate of her power over others ; because
she felt the ability to guide them she imagined
that she had the means to do so, an error
common enough in human nature.

Evelyn is going to marry a country girl
because she beat some village boys off a fox ! '
she cried with intense bitterness to her cousin
Aubrey, who chanced to be in the library at
Balfrons at that moment. ' Good heavens ! a
man who has declined half the best alliances in

Europe goes and throws himself away in some
moment of mad caprice on a rustic. Somebody
with brown hands, and lean elbows, who will
make me look ridiculous when I have to
present her ! Somebody whom he will get
divorced from with some horrible esclandre
and uproar that will be the talk of London a
whole season ! '

A country girl ? ' said Lord Aubrey,
raising his eyebrows ; ' Je lui clonne une quinine
! '

'Is it not just like him ? ' cried Lady
Sunbury, with a quiver of unutterable scorn in
her voice. ' Is it not exactly the kind of thing
we might be sure he would do? After all
these years of hypercriticism, of superciliousness,
of disdain, all these years of romantic
caprices and impossible passions, after rejecting
all the most charming women in Europe,
to go and throw his life away on a rustic
hoyden, a vixen whom he saw fighting with a
mob of village boys ! '

Aubrey Laughed ; he was accustomed to
his cousin's manner of arranging circumstances
according to her own views of them.

'I don't think it can be quite as bad as

that,' he said, turning over the letter, which
she had thrown to him. 'One can trust
Evelyn's taste in women and pictures. But
if you knew there was any danger of this
affair, why did you not stay on at Lady's


Would to heaven I had ! ' said Lady
Sunbury, with infinite bitterness. ' I should
have seen her at any rate ! '

I wouldn't make a quarrel if I were you,'
said Aubrey. ' You see, he writes very well ;
he is evidently anxious you should countenance
the affair, and that is a good deal for him to
admit.'

Countenance it ! Never ! '

Then you will make a great blunder,'
said her cousin very sensibly. ' There is nothing
for anyone seriously to object to, we maybe
sure ; he is not a man to marry anybody
beneath him, and it is merely a matter of good
feeling with him to ask your approbation ;
what you do cannot really matter two straws
to him. Come, write something pleasant. Why
quarrel ? After all, it does not really concern
you.'

Concern me ? ' repeated Lady Sunbury, ina

voice stifled by rage. 'Not concern me?
What should concern me ? What should concern
me if not the honour of my family, the
reputation of my brother, the purity of my
father's name, the respect of my own native
county ? '

Those valuable things are all safe enough,'
said Aubrey, carelessly. ' Evelyn is a fool
in some ways, but he will not buy a 'peclie a
quinze sous with his family pride : in that kind
of matter he is the proudest man living. Of
course it does not please you ; it is natural it
should not please you; but if I were you I
would try to look as if it did. Pleasantness is
always the best policy before anything which
we cannot alter.'

What is the matter ? ' asked the Earl of
Sunbury, coming in with a bundle of letters
for his wife to answer.

Guilders is going to marry a country
girl, and Hilda takes it as an insult to herself,'
replied her cousin.

Sunbury gave a long whistle.

'A country girl, and you will have to
present her ? ' he said, with zest in anything
which annoyed his wife.

Others may present her. I shall not,' said
Lady Sunbury.

Ah ! you mean to make a row of it ? You
always make a row. Lots of people will
present her. Perhaps she has decent people
of her own. Is she born, as the French
say?'

You had better write and congratulate
him,' said his wife. ' He cares so much for
your opinion ! '

I shall certainly congratulate him. I always
like him, though he monopolises all the
amiability of his family,' replied Sunbury, who
had often found the generosity of his brother-in-law
convenient and long-suffering.

Oh, yes ; write and felicitate him, both
of you,' said Aubrey, rising and going away
before what he foresaw would be a connubial
quarrel. ' He has done a great folly, and of
course he will regret it immeasurably, and
all that, but we cannot alter it ; and after
all it is his own affair. And you would not
like Madame Soria better, and it would be
Madame Soria some day if it were not someone
else.'

'A wholesome English girl is certainly

better than tliat^ if she be a dairymaid,' said
Lady Sunbury ; and towards evening she wrote
a letter which was almost kind in tone, although
the kindness was marred and jarred by
many prophecies of ill.

It is strange how certain both she and
John Yernon are that we shall be miserable ! '
thought Guilders when he received it.

CHAPTEE XIII.

GuiLDEROY had a palace of his own in Venice,
placed on one of the curves of the Grand Canal,
one of the oriental palaces with Byzantine windows
and carved and painted walls, and a water-story
of white marble, with great pointed doors
and wide flights of water steps, and at its side
one of the lovely luxuriant green gardens of
Venice with acacia and cereus drooping over
its low red wall. It was to this palace of his
every April that his thoughts turned longingly,
and it was thither that he took Gladys in the
early spring days of the year. It seemed to
him the most fitting place that love and youth
could find. It was a spring-time even more
than usually radiant, fragrant, and mild, and
the Venetian air was full of the scent of the
primroses blooming on the Brentaa banks, and
of the budding narcissus in the meadow grass
of the many islands.

It was a change such as the wand of any
Prospero might have caused, which suddenly-carried
her from the sea mists and bare orchards
and channel winds of the Christslea
shore, to the shining waters, the liquid sunshine,
the gorgeous marbles, and the cloudless
moonlight evenings of the Adriatic city.

The charm of Venice is one of those emotions
which must be felt not told, which are
too delicate, too intricate and too romantic to
be ever coldly dissected and described.

Venice escapes alike the poet and the painter.
They may pourtray her past and paint
her waterways, but they cannot embody her
fugitive and unutterable fascination any more
than they can give on canvas that faint red
glow, those silvery dove-hued waters, that
dreamy and exquisite silence, those ethereal
visions of evening on sea and land.

The balmy air, the radiant light, the slow
soft motion of the pliant gondola, the amorous
music floating down the moonlit water, the
shadowy splendour of the stately frescoed
chambers, were all in the sharpest and strongest
contrast with the rude coast, the grey boisterous
water, the simple ways, and the narrow rooms,

the misty mornings and the chilly eves, the
sober colours and the sombre moorlands of
her English home. It was a sensation which
charmed yet hurt her ; she felt much as one of
her own pigeons from Christslea, brought from
the shady roost under the thatch to dwell
amongst the pigeons of St. Mark would have
felt amongst the marble lodges, the gilded
pinnacles, the bewildering sunshine, and the
glittering mosaics.

She wished with all her soul that he had
let her spend these springtide weeks in the
budding gardens aod the secluded rooms of
Ladysrood. There she would have felt less
frightened, more familiar; here the intense
light seemed like a million curious creatures all
staring at her, and when the bold eyes of the
gondoliers looked at her with a smile in them
she felt herself colour scarlet as at some violating
touch.

Guilders, who had felt from his earliest
years the magic of the Adriatic, grew impatient
with his companion that she seemed so little
sensible of it and sighed for the elm-tree boles
and primrose roots of wet dim English fields.
It was not insensibility, but for once his

discernment was not profound enough, to let
him see this. The girl was bewildered and
inarticulate, rather from excess of emotion
than of lack of it, and longed for the familiar
landscapes of her short past from the same instinct
as makes a stray animal seek its homing
pastures.

The scenes around her were too beautiful
and intoxicating for her to know how to bear
them, even as were the ardours of those new
passions which had whirled her from childhood
into womanhood at a bomid.

Guilders was as far from divining what? she
felt as were the men Avhose oars took them
through the shining waters. She remained
shyer than he wished ; he was half impatient
of it as insensibility, but all the mute vague
passions, the unspoken emotions, the timidity
at her own sensations, and the shrinking from
all observation which were in her, he knew and
heeded very little.

She never looked back in after times to
those weeks in Venice without a sense of them
as of some dream too beautiful and marvellous
ever to be repeated, and yet with a vague awe
and terror touching its beauty with a darkness

VOL. I. N

that enhanced its light. She never in after
days saw the gold sunbeams ripple on the silvery
surface of the lagoons, oi the marbles of
St. Mark shine white beneath the moon, without
the remembrance of the half-unconscious
rapture, and the bewildered embarrassment and
apprehension which she had felt in that April
time of love.

You have never yet told me that you
love me ! ' he said to her once with some
amusement and some annoyance blended in his
thought.

She looked up a moment, then her eyelids
fell.

I can feel but I cannot speak,' she might
have answered had she not been too shy, but
shyness held her silent.

I wonder what she does feel,' he thought,
rather with curiosity than with emotion. ' It is
almost like making love to a statue or a corpse,
she is so irresponsive. She is not cold, but she
is so still one cannot tell whether it is her senses
which are still asleep or her affections. She is
rather alarmed by than moved to any pleasure,
and yet nov and then, when I glance at her
unawares, there is a look in her eyes that is



like love. I suppose the truth is that John
Vernon was right — she is too young.'

But however young she might be she was
very lovely, and her absolute passionlessness and
stillness at the present time had a seduction for
him which was in a manner morbid and yet
sweet, tantalising and yet alluring, enhancing
his passions, though failing to arouse in him
higher and stronger emotions. He did not understand
the intense shyness which enveloped
her as a frost encloses and sheets over a lake ;
the depths of the water, with all their stirring
and palpitating life are there beneath, but so
covered that none can see them. He did not
understand the mingled terror and ecstasy
which his own love was to her, and the bewilderment
her own feelings and agitation were to her.
A man less impassioned and more patient might
have alarmed her less, and so succeeded in
calling out the timid intensity of her soul into
actual expression ; but he had not the self-denial
or the patience requisite, and he had enveloped
her in the fires of passion before he had
ever sought to penetrate the arcana of her
waking soul. She loved him with all the force
of her nature, but she could not have said so

?^2

to save her life ; and with this love which had so
suddenly surged up in her and overwhelmed
her there was a sense of fear mingled ; the only
fear which had ever touched her dauntless and
courageous temper. The fear was sweet to her,
but still it was fear ; not fear so much of him as
of herself, and of all the strange emotions which
had risen in her.

If she could have spoken what she felt, she
would have poured out poems as sweet and as
ardent as any that ever poet penned. But
timidity and ignorance of what name to give
her own emotions held her mute, and he remained
in doubt as to whether she were physically
cold or mentally unintelligent. Before he
had been in Venice a month he remembered with
regret the warning which her father had given
him : ' You will soon wish for those who can
throw the sulphur on the fading flames.'

His affection for her had increased since they
had been together, for he had recognised since
then more fully the delicacy, the honour, and
the high breeding of her character, but his
caprice was already losing something of its
attraction, and his passions were demanding
more response to them,

isis

strive to make her happy,' he wrote to
John Vernon, ' but I am not as sure as I wish
to be that I succeed.'

John Vernon wrote back to him, ' You do
not succeed because you have called on a child's
soul for a woman's passions ; you have pulled
open the rose-bud to make a full-blown rose.
It is impossible that your rose should be
perfect.'

He felt some impatience of her entire passiveness.
He wished either for refusal and opposition
or for responsive passion ; but she
yielded to him like a slave, and yet responded
no more in feeling than if she were a form of
ivory or wax. It was seductive from its strangeness
; and yet it was, he foresaw, what in a few
months would fatigue him, and be insufficient
for him.

It is a pity that we need go home so soon,'
he said once with regret.

She turned to him with a smile, ' Oh, no !
Ladysrood is even dearer than this.'

We cannot go to Ladysrood,' said Guilders
with a little impatience, ' you must be
seen in London. I hate London. It is the
antithesis of everything I like ; but, if you were

not presented, they would say I had married
a gypsy or a gardener's daughter.'

Would that matter very much ? ' said
Gladys, with her delicate eyebrows drawn a
little together.

No, I do not know that it would ; but
Englishmen are always conventional, even when
they don't know it ; all men are, indeed, who
belong to a certain world. I do not care what
people say — no man cares less ; and yet I feel
that I should be irritated if they talked nonsense
about me.'

Gladys was silent. Her feelings were all
primitive and direct. She was far from understanding
complexity of sentiment or the existence
of two morbid yet contradictory feelings
at the same moment.

I love Ladysrood,' she said, with a great
longing in her voice, ' and I love the country.
All the time we have been here I have been
thinking of that line of Browning's,

Oh, to be in England, now that April's there !

Guilders looked at her in surprise.
I did not know you had read Browning,
He is not a child's poet. And, my dear, do not

set your heart on living at Ladysrood. I told
you honestly, you will remember, that I could
not promise to be often there.'

Yes, I remember.' k. shadow passed over
her face — not of resentment but of disappointment,
which troubled him more.

'You will enjoy the world when you know
it,' he said consolingly. ' All women do. There
are things besides daisies and buttercups that
will please you. The country is infinitely
soothing when one is ill or unhappy, or has
failed to attain anything one wanted ; but it is
tedious, and its outlook is narrow. Imperceptibly
one adopts the small views which makeup
its world, and the forces of one's mind get
narrowed to suit them. And the country in
England is so much more intolerable than anywhere
else, because the weather is so bad : to
endure it long one must have the rusticity of
Wordsworth's mind, and boots and stockings
as homely.'

Gladys did not reply. She looked down
into the water through which she was drawing
her left hand, taking pleasure in the brushing of
the ribbon weed against her fingers.

Do you really dream of living at Lady's

all the year round?' he asked her, impatiently.


'I should like it,' she said gently. 'But
then, of course, I do not know any other life
than that country life.'

Ask me anything else,' said Guilders,
'but not that, for heaven's sake.'

I will never ask you anything. My father
told me not.'

But I wish you to ask me for anything that
comes into your fancy,' he said, vaguely irritated.
My dear child, if you and I cannot say frankly
to each other any whim or folly that comes into
our heads, who on earth should do so ? There
is no happiness possible, Gladys, where there is
any reserve.'

The girl was silent, her fingers playing with
the-water weeds on the limpid shallows of the
lagoon.

'Do you understand?' he continued, still
impatiently, though tenderly ; ' I wish you to
confide in me all your desires, and, as far as it
is mortally possible, I will do my utmost to
gratify them.'

You are very good to me,' said Gladys
with a little hesitation.

*That is not the language of love,' said
Guilder oy with annoyance.

The girl coloured ; her lips parted to speak,
but words failed her. She longed to tell him
that she loved him with all her soul so far as
youth can love, but she was shy to utter anything
she felt. She seemed to him less intelligent,
and far less tender, than she really was.

Guilders had himself the infinite expectations
and anticipations which belong to those
whose feelings are rather impassioned than profound,
and whose imagination is more vivid
than their constancy is durable. But he had
not the patience which is often necessary for
the full comprehension of character, especially
of character which is half developed and still
growing.

Every day the memory of John Vernon's
philosophic warnings recurred more often to
him, and he was more persuaded of their truth.
And yet he was still greatly enamoured of her.
Her physical beauty was too great to let him
be otherwise, and the sense of the absolute
freshness and innocence of all her nature were
in a sense very lovely to him after the many
women, so unlike her, whom he had known.

And yet there was something wanting. She
understood so little, she responded so little, she
was still so much more frightened than she was
happy at the dominance of love. He felt that
it had been unwise to take her away from the
simple, childish, unemotional life which had
been so far more suited to her years. Her
father had been thoroughly right. Guilders,
before a week was out, acknowledged it to his
own soul. A man more patient and less
voluptuous by temperament and habit than
he was might have seen by intuition into all
the treasures of her unuttered feelings, but he
only thought her impatiently a child whose
slumbering senses and alarmed bashfulness irritated
and fatigued him. The startled nymph
should, to please his taste, have grown suddenly
at his touch into a goddess, and she did not
do so.

CHAPTEE XIV.

There are few prettier scenes than the great
Piazza of San Marco on a summer's night.
The gaiety of the sauntering crowds, the spar-king
of the many lights, the animation of the
cafes and the colonnades, the sound of. the
military music, and the ring of the spoons on
the platters of ice or the saucers of chocolate,
are all of them like Paris in June ; but then
there is something else too, something that is
not to be found in Paris or anywhere else than in
Venice ; there are the mighty walls and columns
of marble towering up into the blue darkness of
the sky ; there is the shaft of the bell-tower,
seeming to stretch and touch the stars ; and there
is the sense and the sound of the sea waves
close at hand ; while above — high above in the
shadows — the twin lights which have burned
there every night for five hundred years for the

soul of a murdered man shine as steadily as
the twin stars of the Pointers.

So much has been rhymed and written of
Venice that nothing hardly is left to say, and
yet with it all so little has been said because so
little can its singular charm and grace be ever
spoken in words ; the spell of the terrors of the
past which lie so close to the mirth of the
present, the sense of the wide sea waste and
the wild sea winds which lie so close to the
jewelled altars and the porphyry palaces, and
the sweet faces of the Avoient of Titian, and
the yellow sails of the boatmen of Mazzorbo,
pushing their fruit and their fish up the market
stairs by Rialto.

This is the subtle and marvellous charm
of Venice which has not been caught in the
words of Consult, nor in the volumes of
Ruskin, nor in the verse of Musset, nor in the
tragedy of Shakespeare, nor in any printed
page of human genius save Shelley's.

One evening Guilders and Gladys sat before
Florian's, with the soft sea-born day fading
in faint roseate skies and the people coming up
the water stairs and in from the calle, wondering
if there would be any music there that night,

for the season was as yet early and the air cold
after sunset.

Do you mean that you would prefer
Ladysrood to this ? ' he asked her incredulously,
while the pigeons going to roost circled
above the white pinnacles of Sansovino's shrine.

I could care very dearly for Ladysrood,'
she answered with hesitation.

And I am glad that you should since it
belongs to us ; and I care for it myself. But
to prefer it to this ! Think what chilly, misty
mornings, what stormy, dusky sunsets it is
surely having now. England might be tolerable
in the south were it not for two things —
its sea-fogs and its Nonconformists. We can
keep the Nonconformists outside our gates, but
we cannot keep out the sea-fogs.'

We have fogs here.'

Ah, but what different fogs ! Light as
gossamer, dove-hued like mother-of-pearl, parting
to show a rosy sail with a Madonna's
crown, or the marble saints of the Salute dome !
My dear, you cannot speak of this fog and of
those fogs in the same breath. The one is a
film of lace off the Virgin's altars, the other is
Hodge's smock hung up to dry ! '

She looked at him with a certain expression
which he did not admire.

And you do not care whether Hodge hasa
shirt or not ? '

Guilders laughed impatiently.

I care very much when the shirt figures
metaphorically as a fog ! My dear child, pray
do not become a politician. Become anything
else you like that pleases you, but not that.
We have too many of them already. We have
also already got too many undigested opinions.
All opinions require long rumination, only
unfortunately it is a process unknown to politicians.
You are a very lovely woman, Gladys.
You will be handsomer still every year for
some time to come. Leave opinions alone,
my love. If you must have them, being
your father's true daughter, do not spoil your
pretty mouth by their utterance.'

A shadow went over her face. She had
acute intelligence and she did not like to be
relegated to the level which his words implied.

Am I only to dress then like a lay-figure ? '
she said a little angrily.

And amuse yourself and look beautiful.
Can you want more ? '

There is so much more in life,' she murmured
with timidity.

In Hfe, there is no doubt. But in yours
it is best there should not be more for many
a long year. You are so young, and I avow,
my dear, that I have a horror of women who
study blue-books and correct one's statistics
by their own tables. The only office of every
woman who can be so is to be charming.'

'I am not charming,' said the girl, with
colour in her cheeks.

You will be. You see I am quite frank
with you. In our relations mere compliments
are a mistake. You will be infinitely charming
when you realise that you are so. At present
your power to charm is not more intelligible to
you than the use of a knife to an infant : the
infant has not the faintest idea of any difference
between the blade and the haft. Nor do you
discern between the natural beauties which you
possess, which are very great, and those which
you can exercise by taking thought, which will
be still greater.'

I do not understand,' said Gladys.

No,' reflected Guilders, ' and that is why
the innocent woman is always hopelessly left

behind in the race for men's passions. Lie
does not know, and she does not make art supplement
nature ; and she says what she thinks ;
and she shows what she feels ; and she cries
when we would laugh and laughs when we
could cry, and is cold when we are hot and
then would warm us when we are cold — alas,
alas ; why is virtue always like that ? '

Aloud he said to her :

You will understand when you go out in
the world and meet other women. You will
observe then that frequently the women who
have least beauty but most charm bear all
before them. It is a question of mind, of perception,
of sympathies — perhaps of other things
less innocent, but certainly of them. A lovely
woman with perfect features and form (as you
have) will be admired, no doubt, always ; but
her admirers will pass on unless she has some
charm beside her beauty. " Know thyself " was
said by a sage for sages, but it is quite as necessary
a counsel to give to a lovely woman. You
do not know yourself. You are half asleep.
Whenever you become a little conscious of your
power you are frightened. Well, if your mirror
teaches you so little, look at other women and



learn from them that you can easily surpass
them. I do not intend to shut you up in a
cabinet at Ladysrood like a Tanagra figure ;
I want you to be admired by the world, by my
friends, by every one ; and to be that you must
not be afraid of admiration.'

He had no consciousness of the perils which
might He in the counsels he gave ; he was absorbed
in his desire to give the setting it
wanted to this pearl he had found, and to
escape ridicule in the world as the husband
of a woman who was in love with him.
He spoke in entire sincerity. He did not m-
deed, tell her that he found her wanting himself;
but he vaguely endeavoured to imply it.
She would be none the less innocent if she
gained in pliability, in facility, in power of
charm, and she would be a million times more
interesting, and more easily adapted to the
world before her.

You will have a great deal to do once you
are lances he continued. ' The life of society
is full of small things and of continual stir ; it
is a serena inertia but it leaves little time
for contemplation. You will find your hours
gone before you have begun to count them.

VOL. I.

Certainly it is very good of you to wish to be
of use to others, but you will not find it
easy ; and all the parade of philanthropy
which women of rank deal in is rather an
insult to the poor than a kindness to them.
I do not wish you to be conspicuous in that
way ; give all you please, my dear ; give with
both hands ; but pray avoid all appearance
of political advertisement and sentimental religion.
Both are equally offensive to good
taste.'

She did not reply ; she looked at the crescents
of light which were beginning to kindle along
the lines and arches of the Procurator. She
was thinking passionately and painfully, ' If I
did not please him why does he not let me
alone ? '

I do not wish to vex you, my child, and
youth is always charming,' said Guilders
lightly, ' but I want you to realise that you are
very lovely through the grace of nature, and
that you may become still more so by the grace
of art. That is all. I would rather teach you
this myself than let others teach it you. Your
own ideal, I know, is to live at Ladysrood and
be kind to Hods^e. You shall be as kind to

him as you please — though he will like you
none the better for it — but you must live
in the world, and the world does not care
even for Helen unless Helen has her girdle of
charms.'

But if I please you ? '

Please others to please me,' said Guilders
aloud. And he thought to himself: * As men
are made, my dear, unless you please others
you wil], alas ! not please me long.'

I quite admit, my dear child,' he pursued,
' that a life passed in the country is infinitely
easier and infinitely more likely to
develop high thoughts and gentle ones. I am
convinced that the Wretched fretful pessimism,
which is the curse of modern art and literature,
comes from the men who follow literature and
art crowding together in cities, and leading the
feverish existence of the clubs and the streets.
Their blood grows poor and feeble, and their
meditations and views are all tinged with the
hypochondria due to bad air, overfeeding, and
unending excitement. I am really convinced of
it. If cities continue to spread as they have done
in the last fifty years, there will not be a book
worth reading written, or a picture worth seeing



painted. For the majority of men who. can
never be, and are never, rich or famous, life
in great cities inst be pent up, jaundiced,
deprived of all health, whilst for those who
are rich or who achieve fame life in cities
means incessant friction, emulation, bitterness,
elation, jealousy, and haste. Nothing great or
good can come out of the seething cauldron
of life in London or Paris, and all good men
have loved solitude and nature. Tusculum
contributed more than Rome to the genius
of Cicero.

And yet,' he continued with a smile, "• I
who am not Cicero and am not even a modern
poet or novelist or painter, I frankly confess
that the life of the world is necessary, and the
climate of my own country intolerable to me
for nine months out of the year. You will
say, or if you do not say you will think,
that like so many others I can see what is
good yet shun it. Yes : in that I am a man
of my generation. In no age more than in
our own, I think, did men see more clearly
all that life might and ought to be, and fail
more utterly in making it even tolerable to
themselves.'

He had forgotten that he was speaking
beyond the comprehension of his companion ;
that she knew nothing of the moral phthisis of
pessimism and the chronic typhoid of unrest.
He forgot that the country meant to her only
red roses, green grass, a boat on a summer
wave, a swing between two orchard trees,
pet doves flying in the sunshine, and a pet
kid nibbling flowers — all the freedom, the
playtime and the sport of eager healthful
limbs, which it does mean to all innocent and
vigorous early life, whether of the sheepfold,
of the cattle-byre, or of the human
race.

She did not contradict him, merely because
she did not understand.

'My father lives in the country, and you
always say that he is very clever ! ' she observed
after a long silence.

'Your father is above humanity,' said
Guilders impatiently. ' Nay, forgive me, my
dear ; I have the greatest honour and regard
for Mr. Vernon, but he cannot be taken as a
rule for anybody but himself, for no one else
has his wonderful power of self-denial, coupled
with the contradictory power of sufficing to

himself. He is a nature d' elite. I am made
of less fine clay. I admit that I weary myself
consumedly when I have been a little while in
my own company. I have been too used to
the movement of the world.'

I think I weary you, too,' said the girl in
her own soul, but she did not utter her thought
aloud.

As he spoke he started and half rose
from his chair. He saw a lady dressed in
black from head to foot coming through the
people, followed by a tall footman in amber-coloured
livery laced with silver, and accompanied
by several young men, and one large
Russian greyhound.

Good heavens ! ' Guilders murmured unconsciously
aloud, as he mechanically lifted his
hat as she passed him.

She acknowledged the salutation with a
slight bow, and passed on through the throng
towards the piazza. She did not even glance
at his companion.

'Who is that beautiful woman?' asked
Gladys.

Guilders did not reply. He had grown
pale, and his eyes had a startled look.

She knows you,' the girl persisted innocently.
' Do tell me who she is ? '

It is the Duchess Soria,' he said reluctantly


Is she one of those whom I am to imitate? '
said the child a little sadly.

'No one could ever be like her,' said
Guilders hastily; and if his companion had
had a little more experience in such matters,
she would have heard in his voice that tone
with which a man never speaks but of some
woman whom he loves, or whom he at least
remembers tenderly that he has loved.

She did not understand, but she vaguely
comprehended that he did not wish to speak
more on the subject.

Very soon afterwards Guilders suggested
a return to their gondola on the score that the
evening was chilly. When they reached his
palace he stayed behind to say a few words to
the gondolier. The man brought him word an
hour later, in answer to his command, that
the Duchess Soria was staying at the Palazzo
Contain.

Throughout dinner he was abstracted and
inattentive. After dinner he paced the long

drawing-rooms from end to end impatiently,
wondering how he should escape the girl's
observation, and go where he wanted to go.

Might we not go on the water again ? '
she asked him wistfully. They often went out
after dinner, when the moon was full as it was
this night ; and she had an uneasy sense that
he was wearied and impatient of her company.


It is too cold,' he answered as in a reverie ;
and he continued to pace up and down the
chambers.

Cold ! ' — it seemed to her as warm as a
midsummer evening in England.

I think it is too cold for you,' he answered
impatiently. ' If you would not mind, I would
go out alone.'

Her ear was quick and fine, and caught the
accent of petulance at any constraint. With
great self-constraint she forbore to notice it.

Oh, pray go ! ' she said willingly. ' T am
rather tired; I should be glad to rest in my
room.'

He did not give her credit for the effort
because he did not perceive it: he was only
glad that she did not oppose his departure.

Good-night, dear,' he said with real tenderness,
for he was grateful to her, and he kissed
her fondly ; yet he felt irritated at the kind of
obligation inferred by the semi-apology made
for his absence.

True, it was no more than courtesy would
have made him offer to any woman dependent
on him for society and companionship ; but the
sense that he had to account for his actions
irritated and weighed on him. The sweetness
and simplicity with which she accepted his
excuses did not soothe away the sense of subjection
which fretted him in making them.
It is because men feel the necessity to explain
that they drop into the habit of saying what is
not true. Their explanations cannot be always
true ; it is impossible that they should be so.
Wise is the woman who never insists on an
explanation which if given must be, in the
nature of things, either an offence to her or an
untruth.

Perhaps more than half the happiness of
life, whether in love or friendship, consists in
having learnt the art of gliding over, as though
it were unperceived, that which we are not
desired to perceive. That few women have

this delicate art. or possess the self-control
and self-negation which are required for its
exercise, is a fact which lies at the root of
a great deal of human unhappiness and disunion.


The innate delicacy of John Vernon's
daughter supplied the place of tact in her,
and her mind was too childlike and unsophisticated
to harbour jealousy, however
vague.

He would not have chosen me if he had
not preferred me to all others,' she would no
doubt have said had any Mephistopheles been
there to pour into her ear self-doubts and the
restlessness of suspicion.

But a vague feeling, which was the most
womanlike of any which she had hitherto felt,
came over her ; a feeling older and sadder than
her years. She thought to herself wistfully,
Why did he want me with him if he be not
happy anywhere with me? '

It was the pathetic, unwise wonder of the
woman in a child's heart.

She heard one gondolier cry to the other,
'Palazzo Contarini,' and the oars fell with a
gentle splash into the water. She watched the

gondola as far as she could follow it with her
eyes. The moonlight fell full on the canal, and
it was visible until the curve by the Rialto hid
it from sight. The slow, soft, noiseless movement,
which had something amorous in its
languor and caress of the water, was as unlike
the abrupt and noisy movement of her boat
over the grey, salt water at home, as her
present life was like her past.

Her elbows rested on the silk cushions
which covered the marble and her head rested
on her hands ; her eyelashes were wet with
tears, she could not very well have said why
except that the vague impatience in his tone
and the demand on her to be something other
than she was seemed to weigh on her heart with
a heavy sense of her own inefficiency to content
him. His affections were hers ; he had
said so a thousand times, and he. had proved it
as far as a man can do so ; and yet she felt
that he was disappointed in her, impatient of
her, wanted her in some way unlike what she
was.

She withdrew from the window, and bade
her woman shut the casement, though the moon
was pouring its radiance through the chamber.

as on Christened's. She was too young to feel
jealousy, and too accustomed to obedience to
feel rebellious ; yet a vague, unanalysed pain
was in her heart. Would he be long? she
wondered.

CHAPTEE XV.

GuiLDEROY meantime went on with a quickly
beating heart to the water-gate of the Palazzo
Contarini.

Is it possible that I love her still ? ' he
asked himself uneasily as his boat glided
through the green shadowy waters, through
the deep black shadows, and the glistening
breadths of light where the moonbeams fell.
He had thought not. An hour before he
would have sworn that he did not.

The noble palace, turning its Gothic buttresses
and machicolations to the little canal of
the Priuli, towered above him as his gondola
touched its water-stairs.

Take up my name,' said Guilders to a
servant whom he recognised at the entrance.

He stood on the edge of the steps and waited.
The water flowed past him bronze green in the

full moonlight with a melancholy and monotonous
sound in its ebb and flow. With one of
the strange contradictions of human temper he
passionately regretted a privilege which he had
abandoned of his own accord ; a time when the
servants of Beatrice Soria showed him into her
presence unannounced and sure of welcome.
Of his own free will he had broken off those
terms of privileged intimacy, and he knew well
enough that he had desired to do so before
he had taken the resolve to do it. And yet
he regretted, and would have had these privileges
once more if he had been able to command
them. He despised his own inconstancy,
but he could not control its regrets and its forebodings.


He was kept waiting some little time
standing there on the top stair, whilst the
gondoliers murmured and laughed with one
another, and the reflections of the lamps
trembled in the water. Then the servant returned
and said :

Will my lord follow me ? '

Guilders followed him up the steep stone
staircase and across the ante-chamber into a
large, vaulted, painted chamber in which the

severe beauties of old Venetian art were blent
with the luxurious litter of modern taste. The
room was faintly lighted from wax candles
burning in the wall sconces ; the air was odorous
with the scent of many lilies of the valley.
The Duchess Soria was reclining on a couch at
the further end. As he advanced the room
seemed to him endless, the time consumed in
passing through it appeared a century. He
had never in his life before known the sensation
of embarrassment : he knew it now.

She aided him in no way. She turned her
head and looked at him as he came towards
her, but she did not move until he was quite
close to her. Then she raised herself slightly
on one elbow and put out her left hand ; the
one nearer him.

My dear friend,' she said with a little
smile, ' let me felicitate you. I saw Lady
Guilders on the Piazza. She is very beautiful,
but surely she is very young? A head
default ; yes, we always say that. It would be
plus head if when wee were young we had wit
enough to know the happiness we enjoyed.
When did you come ? When will you go
away ? I have this house for a fortnight. Then

I go to Paris, as you know is my habit at
this season.'

Guilders murmured something, he knew
not what. He was so surprised and troubled
by the easy indifference of a reception so different
to the scene of passionate reproaches
for which he had been prepared, that he could
not recover his composure. He remained
standing, gazing down at her while the colour
came and went on his cheek.

She was unmoved ; she had been for days
prepared for such a meeting. Women are
always in extremes. When they lose their
self-control they lose it entirely in a terrible
abandonment to all their passions ; when they
are mistress of themselves they are, on the
contrary, wholly under the domination of their
colder and their more merciless instincts, and
all the storms of emotions assail their composure
in van.

'You never answered my letter,' he said
almost involuntarily. It was what a boy would
have said and he knew it, and yet he could not
restrain the words.

What was the use of answering it ? ' she
replied in the same even and languid tone.

Cosa facta capo ha." What is done is done.
You know the proverb.'

But it was not done, then ! '

What did you expect ? That I should entreat
you for my sake to pause and change your
mind ? My dear friend, you were very vain.'

Vain ! ' repeated Guilders.

He knew that he could not recall to her
passions and affections which he had voluntarily
thrown back on her hands. He could not
remind her of her past love for him, when that
love had been wholly incapable of retaining his
allegiance.

'You must have but a paltry opinion of
me,' he said, with a flush of mortification.

You are not heroic. Men are not heroes
except in their own eyes. You wished to
marry. You married. There is no more to be
said. I hope it may agree with you. It does
not agree with most people.'

Guilders was silent and embarrassed. For
more years than one his greatest emotion with
regard to her had been impatience and readiness
to dispute with her. He had told himself
a thousand times that, without difficulty or
danger or novelty or any future good in it,

VOL. I. p

passion became wearisome, and had no power
to hold Mm. And yet, now that this passion
was altogether of the past, it allured him back
to it. It assumed a thousand hues which it had
never worn before.

Had he in truth, he asked himself now,
always loved her, though he had dished her
exactions, her despotism, and her caprice ? If
he had not, how was it that the mere sound of
her name, the mere touch of her hand, had had
power to awaken so much in him that he had
imagined was dead ?

She was still reclining on a pile of silk
cushions and oriental stuffs ; her arms were
bare to the shoulder, and with one hand she
moved up and down the coils of an emerald
bracelet on the other arm. His eyes followed
the movement of the jewel up and down the
soft pale flesh, polished as ivory, where his lips
so often had lingered. Paradise was shut to
him now, and he had closed the doors himself,
and he regretted it.

She was a very beautiful woman, then
eight-and-twenty years old. She was tall and
exquisitely formed, whilst her face had the rich
hued fairness of Titian's women, warm as a sun-fed

fruit. She had the blood of many different
races in her veins, Arragonese, Sicilian, Venetian,
and French, and she had had for many-years
all the habits, the experiences, the wisdom,
and the charms of a woman accustomed to
reign in the greatest of great societies. Her
marriage could not be called a happy one, but
it was not positively unhappy ; she enjoyed a
large fortune wholly secured to her, and Hugo
Soria was wholly indifferent to what she did so
long as she preserved an outward agreement
with himself; they appeared in public or at
great courts together a dozen times a year, and
he and the world were satisfied.

She was not. She was a woman of strong
passions and warm affections, which the habits
of the world had not destroyed in her. All
the heart she had — and it was much — she had
thrown into her relations with Guilders ; and
though those relations had before his rupture
with her been often strained and marred by
scenes of dissension, they had yet remained the
central interest of her life. When the tidings
of his marriage had reached her she had received
the greatest blow that it is possible fora
proud woman to receive. The wildest desires

p 2

of vengeance had passed through her disordered
thoughts, only resisted because they
seemed too melodramatic, too common, and
too poor. All her empire had crumbled into
dust, and she suffered as lowlier and more
patient women could not do.

She had not answered his letter because it
had seemed to her that there was no answer
possible. You do not answer an insult unless
you can avenge it. She could not avenge this
because she was a woman, and a gentlewoman,
and she was conscious moreover that she had
often strained his patience to breaking by her
exactions and her caprices ; that he had excuse
if not justification in his effort to secure for
his future more peaceable and more fruitful
attachments.

So she had replied nothing to his message
of farewell ; and when now she had been asked
to receive him she had consented, and had
done so as a friend.

She had no distinct motive or project in
her mind ; she was actuated partly by pride,
which moved her to conceal her wound, and
partly by a vague desire not to lose sight of his
life altogether.

She broke the silence at last.

Your wife is very lovely,' she said again.
Quite an English beauty, but with something
more sensitive in it and more suggestive than
there is in most English girls' faces. Is she
facile ? Because you are not, my dear friend,
and in marriage it is extremely necessary that
one at least should be so. She is a child, you
say ? Yes, I see she is a child at present, but she
will not be always a child ; and in marriage so
very often one is so inconveniently in love for a
long time while the other has forgotten and
rebels.'

Guilders gave an impatient gesture. He
had not come there to discuss the philosophy of
marriage with the wife of Soria.

You do not like to talk about her ? ' said
the Duchess.

There is nothing to talk about ; she is very
young, and she has seen nothing of the world.'

The real ingenue ? It is so strange, but
men of the world are so often enamoured of
that type ; and yet there are few things more
tiresome than a mind which is incapable of
sympathy, because it has no knowledge and
no experience. Some women are tiresome

like that all their lives — they are the good
women ! '

She laughed a little, and added :

I will come and see her tomorrow. What
hour suits her ? '

Guilders coloured. He wished to Heaven
that they should never meet, and yet it was
impossible to prevent it; and perhaps it was
merely a folly on his part to feel that sensitiveness
about it. The world was full of such
meetings.

'Any hour you will like to name; I will
bring her to you,' he said, with a visible reluctance
which his companion did not choose to
observe.

To-morrow, then, at five.'

Guilders bowed. He was thinking to
himself — it must be that she cares for someone
else, or she could never be so cold ?

A swift and hateful suspicion flashed through
his mind also. Was it possible that she was in
real truth indifferent because already she had
replaced him .^ Was that the explanation of
her silence, of her apparent forgiveness? Six
months and more had gone by since their last
meeting. There was time — more than time —

for a woman of the world to have substituted
one sentiment for another.

He hated the thought. It seemed impossible
to him that the love she had borne him
could have already gone elsewhere ; and yet had
not his own passion faded and been false to her ?
Had he any title to expect from her a constancy
which he had not given ?

He sat beside her embarrassed and mute ;
and she watched him under her dreamy long-lashed
eyelids. A great depression came over
him like a weight of lead ; something seemed
suddenly to have gone out of his life and left it
blank. For many months he had been used to
the thoughts of this woman wholly devoted to
himself, and suffering from his absence and his
inconstancy. He had rebuked himself and
hated himself for what had been in his own
eyes the cruelty of his desertion of her. Ina
passionate scene he would have been at his
ease, because he would have had what he
expected, what he was used to ; but before
this cool, languid, half friendly, half-hostile
reception of him by a woman whom he had
known alternately furious or tender, exquisitely
devoted or violently dominant, he was at a loss

what to do or what to say. He longed to fall
at her feet and implore her pardon, but he felt
afraid lest it should seem to her a greater insult
than the original offence. If she chose to treat
his marriage as a thing without import or interest
to her, it was not for him to force on her
memories which should remind her that it had
been an infidelity to her which she had every
right to resent and to condemn.

She had played with him often when he
was really hers ; she had created his jealousy
and irritated his temper ; she had often been
wayward, despotic, and disposed to overstrain
the great power which she had at one time
possessed. At the beginning his love had been
much more passionate than hers, but soon the
proportions had been reversed, and gradually,
as years went on, it had become on her side
much greater than on his own. She had
allowed her heart to be drawn into what she
had once intended should be only a pastime,
and she had, with all the fractiousness of
passion, set her soul more and more on her
kingdom as she felt that its sceptre was more
and more likely to slide with time from her
grasp. She had really loved him ; and it was the

knowledge of that which, when he had thought
of her, had moved him to the pain of remorse.

And now he found that all his remorse had
been needless, all his self-reproaches the exaggerated
apprehensions of vanity ; for it was
evident that of all indifferent matters his
marriage had been the most indifferent to
this woman, who for five years had seemed
to live only through his love !

A wave of hot anger rose over his soul.
He regretted his visit to her. He felt that he
was insignificant in her eyes, and he longed
to recall to her a thousand things which it
was impossible for him even to hint at, since
she chose to ignore all their past relations.
He could not blame her ; he had no possible
right to do so. He was aware that most menin
his place would have been grateful to her for
passing over with so much lightness a difficult
and embarrassing position. He knew that he
ought to be thankful for her forbearance and her
indifference, and yet he felt that he would have
preferred that she should have upbraided him,
reviled him, struck him, done anything to him
rather than tell him in that tranquil mode to
bring his wife to see her.

Women have no real feeling,' he thought
furiously ; and if she had met him with reproaches
he would have said ' Women have no
comprehension ! '

It was one of those situations in which the
man must always be irritated with the woman,
let her do what she may, because, as he is conscious
of having acted ill to her, her forgiveness
or her invective must alike appear a rebuke to
him. If she had indeed met him with any of
that constancy and fervour of passion which had
tired him in her, she would have reconciled him
to himself As it was, he felt, with passionate
annoyance at his own weakness, that it was
quite possible for him to become in the future
as much in love with her again as he had been
five years before. He rose abruptly, being afraid
of what he might be betrayed into if he sat
much longer beside her in the silence of this
flower-scented, dimly lighted, painted chamber,
with no sound on their ear except the ripple of
the water below the windows, or the distant cry
of some passing gondolier. He had had many
affections in his life, but in some ways he had
cared more for Beatrice Soria than for any other
woman, and cared longer. Now that he was

again in her presence, it seemed strange and
unnatural that they should meet and part as
mere acquaintances. He was a man of tender
heart if of variable passions, and he could not
wholly restrain some of the emotion which he
felt.

You will, at least, allow me to be always
your friend ? ' he murmured, as he bent over
her hand.

Why not ? ' she replied, with a charmed
sweetness in the words ; but they were wholly
calm, and had no answering emotion in them.

He held her hand a moment, then touched
it with his lips and left her. The heavy
tapestry hanging before the door closed on
him. Alone, she rose from her couch with the
feverish impetuosity of some wounded animal,
and paced to and fro the length of the chamber
with quick, nervous, agitated steps

Strong passions and deep pain, scorn, regret,
and desire, and the wrath of a proud nature
under insult, all which she had successfully
repressed and hidden in his presence, overmastered
her in solitude.

As she heard the sound of the oars in the
water as his gondola left the palace steps, she

threw herself face forward on the cushions of
her couch once more, and with her head bowed
on her beautiful bare arms she wept bitterly.

She was a woman of the world, and she had
worn the mask of the worldly : partly from
pride, partly from desire to renew an association
which would perforce be severed for ever were
any angry words exchanged. She knew that the
impetuosity and dominance of her temper had
wearied out a love which she had prized more
than any other she had ever enjoyed, and
she had subjugated her will and subdued her
sense of passionate resentment, to make them
the slaves of her purpose and her desire to
regain her lost influence.

But the reaction was great, and when alone
she had no composure to affect, no indifference
to simulate, she abandoned herself to the convulsive
and unrestrained grief of a woman who
is only sensible that she has, for the time at
least, lost all which has made existence sweet
to her.

CHAPTEE XVI.

The next day at five o'clock he was not at
his ease, and Gladys was timid and silent. The
Duchess Soria alone was at her ease ; full of
charm and animation, graciously kind, and
most brilliant, as she could be when she chose.
Nothing could be more admirable than her
manner to the young girl, and Gladys looked
and listened with a vague perception of what
he had meant by his warning to herself on the
Piazzetta.

She could never be like this exquisite
woman with her perfect grace, her low sweet
laugh, her easy gliding from one language to
another, her delicate touches of wit which just
brushed its subject and left an epigram on it,
as though her lips dropped diamonds like the
queen's of the fairy story. The sense of her
own inferiority made the girl twice as shy and

twice as self-conscious as she had ever been
before. All the childlike frankness and courage
which had been so naturally hers before her
marriage had evaporated. She was almost
mute, and blushed painfully whenever she was
forced to speak.

Guilders felt passionately angered against
her.

She will make the other think that I have
married a fool ! ' he said bitterly to himself,
with the same restless irritating consciousness
that a man feels who has bought a jewel at
great price, and sees it subject to the contemplation
of a supreme connoisseur in gems, only
to be condemned as worthless.

There was a look in the eyes of Beatrice
Soria which made him writhe ; not quite derision,
not quite contempt, but cruelly hinting
both.

Is it for this you have left me ? ' said the
lustrous and languid glance of those eyes in
which he had once seen all his heaven, and
was so tempted to see it still.

What inferior creatures we are to women ! '
thought Guilders. ' We are fools enough to
be troubled by what seems to us an equivocal

situation, a want of decency or dignity, but a
woman carries off any false position with the
most consummate ease ; she is never at a loss
for brilliant conventionalities, she is never
shaken by a consciousness of inopportune
memories ; you may have left her chamber
half-an-hour before, but she will present you
with perfect self-possession to her acquaintances
in her drawing-rooms ! '

If she had refused to receive his wife, he
would have accused her of jealousy, and of the
desire to create a painful scene ; he would have
said that women carried so far too much
earnestness into passing passions, and desired
to give permanence to intimacies which should
be evanescent.

But he, who thought that he knew the
whole gamut of female emotions, was perplexed
to explain to himself, now, the motive
and the character of her feelings.

There was an unaffected kindness and
sweetness in her manner to Gladys which
was the perfection of acting, if acting it were.
The young girl was bewitched and fascinated
by it; and, when they had left the Palazzo
Contarini, was full of the expressions of her

admiration, to which he found it somewhat
difficult to reply.

For one moment, as they glided over the
water homeward, he felt an impulse to tell her
the story of his relations to the Duchess Soria.
He felt that it would create a certain confidence
and clearness between them ; that it would
enable her to guide her own conduct and understand
his own in the future ; but the words were
difficult to utter. He had the intimate sense
which every man who is a gentleman feels so
strongly, that to speak of a woman's passion for
himself is a cowardice and a vulgarity. He
felt that he should repent it for ever after if he
were to be guilty of such an offence against the
unwritten laws of honour. Moreover, he was
conscious that he could not speak of her with
total indifference, because he was not indifferent.
And then, again, what would Gladys
comprehend? She was such a child: she
would probably be disgusted, alarmed, and
wholly unable to understand either the confession
or his motives for making it. So he
kept silence, and merely responded with acquiescence
to her repeated interrogations and
affirmations of enthusiastic admiration of the

grace, the beauty, and the charm of her great
rival.

You will be as charming yourself when
you know a little more of the world,' he
replied, with a touch of impatience at the last.

I shall never be like that,' said the girl despondently.


You do not want to be ; you are young ;
youth has its own charm.'

But you told me I wanted to improve so
much ? '

If I did I was a fool. You need not
always take seriously what I say, my dear.
Men often have hostages ; they are only spoilt
children. Women are very unwise, and are
always very unhappy, who attach too much
importance to our idle words.'

Gladys was silent. She was wondering
how she was to know when he wished to have
his words taken seriously and when he did
not. Her father's clear, limpid, straightforward
speech had always been so intelligible to her.
She had had no experience of the caprices and
involutions of speech used only to conceal the
speaker's thoughts, or aimlessly to discharge
the doubts and the desires at war in the speaker's

VOL. I. Q

mind. But her intelligence and the delicacy of
her apprehensions told her that in some way her
praise of the Duchess Soria was distasteful to
him. She talked of her no more.

After leaving the Palace they had gone down
the Grand Canal and out towards the Lido.
Venice was at her most beautiful moment (unless,
indeed, daybreak be not still more beautiful),
the sun was setting behind the city, and
the golden glow suffused the water, the sky, the
earth, and made the ships and the isles, and the
buildings of the Schiavone look like the translucent
images seen in a mirage.

Venice is the heaven of lovers ; yet Guilders
already felt that he had ceased to be a lover
as he drifted through the sparkling sunshine or
the starry nights by the side of his young companion.
When there is absolutely no response,
passion soon grows tired alike of its demands
and of its persuasions. He had been used to
women who studied, stimulated, caressed, and
tempted him. She was too young to do the first
of these, and too ignorant of her own charms
and powers to do the others. He remained
wholly unaware of the mingled and contradictory
emotions with which this mute soul regarded

him. The eloquent expression of passion is
more than half its attraction, and the devotion
of the heart is useless unless the intelligence is
sufficiently awake to unite it to influence.

I shall not see Madame Soria again ? ' she
said, as the gondola drifted up the canal an
hour later, and passed the Contarini Palace, in
which the windows were all lighted a giorno.

Why should you want to see her ? ' he
replied with petulance. 'I thought you were
shy of strangers. Be quite sure, however, that
you will see her, over and over again, in the
world.'

He turned his head away as they neared
the lighted palace ; he hated to think that
others were there beside Beatrice Soria, others
perchance who had succeeded to the same
privileges and the same intimacy which had
once been his.

He had voluntarily abandoned them, but he
regretted them bitterly now ; even as a man
might in a fit of passion fling a collar of pearls
into the green water of the canal, and regret
his act when it had sunk for ever out of sight
under the seaweed and the sand.

Do you intend to be mute for ever, as you

Q 2

were before her, before all my friends ? ' lie
said irritably, as they passed under San Giorgio
Maggiore, feeling forced to vent his irritation in
some way. ' I really cannot understand you, my
dear ; you have spirit enough when you choose.
Do you mean to sit like a country mouse in all
London and Paris drawing-rooms ? Do you
mean to make no effort to attain the tone
and the air of the world you have to live in ?
You will make me supremely absurd if you
remain a mere country girl. In your present
position -'

He checked himself, for his good breeding
made him conscious that he could not reproach
or remind her of social advantages which she
had received from himself.

Gladys' eyes filled with tears. Whenever
her father had reproved her it had been with
gentle gravity and reasonableness, not with
petulant irritation like this.

For Heaven's sake do not do that ! ' cried
Guilders, angry with himself, and so still
more angered against her. ' Les femmes
peeresses are my abhorrence. If there be
anything on earth I have avoided all my life it
is tears ! '

'I beg your pardon,' said the girl coldly.
There was a menace he did not like in the
tone, and he said nothing.

Will she not be facile a vivre ? ' he
thought uneasily ; it was the quality he most
prized : he had never met with it. His sister
did not possess it ; Beatrice Soria had not possessed
it, nor had any one of the many women
he had loved ; it seemed to him the one good
thing upon earth, chiefly because he had always
sought and never found it. And, indeed, in a
sense he was right in his estimate, if his estimate
sprang from his own selfishness. Of what, use
is it for those who love us to say that they do
so if they cannot bear with our infirmities,
pardon our weaknesses, and make the atmosphere
of our lives sweet and clear ?

If you would like to go to England,' he
said abruptly, ' I have no objection. You can
go to the first Drawing-room instead of the
second, and we can go to Ladysrood for
Whitsuntide. Your father would be pleased,
no doubt.'

The warmth with which she thanked him
made him feel very insincere towards her. If
she could have known his motives for being

desirous to leave Venice, she would have seen
that consideration of her wishes or of John
Vernon's pleasure had very little to do with it.

But ignorance, that kindest friend of trustful
natures, kept her from such knowledge, and
she was grateful and happy.

On the morrow he sent a letter to the Palazzo
Contarini, in which he expressed his regret that
he was recalled suddenly to England, and must
thus lose the honour of seeing the Duchess
Soria again in Venice. It flattered Beatrice
Soria to learn that he should have left Venice
with so much precipitation.

Men only flee from what they fear, not
from what is indifferent.

What is the use of his flying from me ? '
she thought. ' The world — our world — is so
narrow ; we must meet again and again in it.'

He had killed what was best and warmest
and sweetest in her, as men do without thinking
how they destroy the better qualities of
women. They think that they have full title to
a woman's fealty and forbearance, though they
may have shown neither forbearance nor fealty
themselves, and they demand from her superhuman
virtues at the very hour that they do

things to her which would make an angel a
fiend. There arose in her now, in the place
of her warm impetuous passions, a colder and
unkind passion, which had the patience to
wait and the wisdom to affect tranquillity.

Chapter XVII.

And Lady Guilders, what is lie like ? ' asked
an old friend of Lady Sunbury, in a crowded
London ball-room.

She is a charming child, but such a child ! '
she replied with a sigh.

You have forgiven her, then ? ' asked Lord
Aubrey, who was standing near.

There is nothing to forgive. Your advice
was sound. It would have been very stupid to
quarrel. But if you ask me whether I believe
the marriage is for Guilders's ultimate peace,
I do not.'

why?'

For a thousand reasons. You always repent
at leisure when you marry in haste. Then
she is too young. A great charm you say?
Yes, but sometimes a very costly one. She
will only be happy in the country, and he is
only happy in the world. Is he in love, do

you say? My impression is that he is not.
She is ! '

That is ominous, and early. If he is not,
why on earth did he marry ? '

'Ah!'

Lady Sunbury moved her fan in a gesture
suggestive of her impotence to account for the
extravagancies of any man. 'Evelyn is very
capricious and has coups de tete which are often
wholly unaccountable. This was a coup de tete.
Now that he has outgrown its momentary
excitement I think he looks at his wife and
wonders what he was about.' •

A happy prospect for her.'

On s'hahitue a tout,' said Lady Sunbury
with little sympathy in troubles of the soul.
He will always be very kind to her — Evelyn
can be unkind to nothing — and he will be very
courteous and generous : if she be reasonable
she will not want more ; she can enjoy herself
in any way she likes. I hope she will be reasonable.'


How old did you say she was ? '

Seventeen, I think.'

It is not the age of reason,' said Lord Aubrey,
and as he wandered away through the

rooms lie felt a vague pity for this young girl
whom he had never seen, who was to be content
with the courtesy of her husband, and with
the power of spending money. Most women
wanted no more, it was true, but here and there
was a woman who did want more, and who
having no more was wretched.

Aubrey attended the Drawing-room a few
days later with some feeling of curiosity. Presentations
seldom interested him. He did not
care much for women. But this time he looked
on with interest, as Lady Sunbury presented
her young sister-in-law.

She may be a child, but she has the sangfroid
of race in her,' he thought, as he saw
Gladys come before the throne with the same
calmness with which she had fronted the
Cherriton lads on the Ladysrood moors. She
scarcely looked her best, because the Court dress
was too stately for her extreme youth, and the
Guilders jewels seemed too many and too
heavy for her small head and her childlike
shoulders to sustain ; but she carried herself with
perfect grace and repose. She was undisturbed
by the novelty of the scene and the magnificence
of the crowd ; and her cheeks were as

cool, and her pulse as even, as though she had
been in the porch under the apple boughs and
the ivy of Christslea.

There is the Princess royal in your lovely
Perdita,' said Aubrey to Guilders.

Guilders assented with a smile : he was
proud of her and, for the moment, content.
Occasionally, as his sister had guessed, he surveyed
what he had done with a sense of wonder
and vague uneasiness, half troubled even whilst
half pleased to find her always before him.
But he was well satisfied that she should be
his as he heard the murmurs of admiration
around him.

I do not wonder any longer that you married
her,' said Aubrey.

I wonder myself still sometimes,' said Guilders.
' But I am disposed to hope that it was
the one wise act of a not wise life.'

Aubrey was silent. The wisdom of it did
not seem to him so apparent as the temptation
to it. He admired his cousin in many things,
but in others he blamed, and in others he
doubted him. ' He has been a spoiled child of
pleasure and of women so long,' he thought,
will he understand the fragility of this new

plaything, or care for it if he do understand
it?'

You are thinking that I shall ill-treat her,'
said Guilders, annoyed by what he fancied the
other's silence meant. ' I assure you every one
has prophesied the same, even her father and
my sister. I do not know why ; I have not
been in the habit of ill-treating women.'

You have been in the habit of leaving
them,' said Aubrey. ' Sometimes that comes to
the same thing.'

They were at that moment separated by the
crush, and Guilders was spared the trouble of
denial or reply.

Aubrey had at no time very much patience
with his cousin. Laborious and self-denying,
strongly patriotic and accepting a vast amount
of responsibilities which he hated because he
believed them not to be conscientiously avoided,
he viewed with impatience the useless brilliancy
of Guilders's intelligence, its scholarly indolence
and its ingenious sophisms. The very
inward sense which he sometimes could not
help feeling that Guilders was right enough
in his easy-going pessimism and his epicurean
choice of the paths of life, only served to make

him the more impatient of a man who was
theoretically so selfish and yet practically so
wise.

Evelyn has been so spoilt by fortune,' Lady
Sunbury said to him once.

No doubt,' replied Aubrey, but in himself
he felt that circumstances had conspired to spoil
himself quite as much, but had not similarly
succeeded, because his natural indolence had
been striven against by a strong sense of the
responsibilities of position.

I do not know that I have done any good,'
he thought honestly enough, ' but at least I
have not been idle.'

He went home from the Drawing-room that
day with a vague sense of pity for the girl he
had called Perdita. His pity was no doubt
absurd enough ; the world would have told
him so certainly, and yet he could not avoid
the sense of it.

Evelyn will not make her happy, because
he will not be happy with her,' he thought.
We cannot give what we do not possess.'

'I regret to disagree with you,' he said
an hour later to his cousin Hilda in her own
house. ' I am charmed with his wife, but the

marriage will not be happy; she will not be
contented with dressing exquisitely and spending
money.'

'Then she will be very ungrateful,' said
Lady Sunbury, whose pride was pinched day
and night by want of adequate means to meet
the demands of her position. ' I seriously believe
that the only one grave and hopeless ill in
life is want of money ; it brings about all others,
it poisons every hour, and it makes good temper
absolutely unattainable. This girl is a baby,
and sentimental. She will possibly cry her
eyes out because he looks five minutes too long
at another woman. But when that stage has
passed, as it always passes, she will grow
sensible of the advantages of always having
her bills paid without question.'

That will depend on whether her temperament
is susceptible of delight in running up
bills.'

Every woman has that temperament. Pray
do not irritate me any further. I opposed the
marriage absolutely so long as it was of any use
to do so ; it was an absurd one, a caprice, a
folly. I have only accepted it to prevent the
world talking, and because I cannot quarrel for

life with the head of my family ; but I do not
profess to approve of it, and if she is to be
made into a sentimental heroine as a feminine
incomprise I shall detest her. She has had an
immense, a most amazing, piece of good fortune,
I beseech you do not irritate me by pitying her
for it I '

I certainly will not irritate you,' said
Aubrey, who knew that she could irritate
herself unaided.

Lady Sunbury, though she had become
reconciled, believed no more in the wisdom of
this marriage than she had done when she had
been its most dogged opponent. •

I know him,' she continued to her cousin,
and I know that he is one of those men who,
without in the least intending it, make women
as wretched ultimately as they make them
radiantly happy at the onset. My brother has
not a harsh fibre in his whole nature (he says
that I absorbed them all), but whether I did or
not he has none ; yet I am quite sure that he
renders every woman he loves much more
unhappy than many colder and worse men
do.'

Because he ceases to care so soon ? '

'Partly that, and partly because there is
that about Evelyn which women cannot forget.
He will not understand why they do not forget
as completely and as easily as he does, and so
there is wretchedness.'

'That was with his amours, but surely
here '

His marriage is in feeling only an amour
too ; only an amourette. When he has come
to the end of it he will be supremely astonished
to find that it leaves restraints and obligations
upon him which amourettes have not.'

Perhaps he will get rid of them also.'

'You cannot get rid of marriage. Unless
your wife disgraces herself you can never get
rid of it.'

In our day it is at least worn lightly if not
got rid of, yet it is always there,' said Aubrey.
You are like a prisoner who has given his
parole and goes wherever he pleases ; he walks
and wanders where he will, and he can saunter,
or sit, or sleep, or swim ; and the sun and the
rain fall on him, and he sees all the living
world and the wide horizon, but he has given
his parole to go back, and it is all poisoned for
him.'

In marriage at least the parole is not often
kept,' said Lady Tilbury.

At six o'clock Aubrey went and called on
his cousin's wife in the great Palladian mansion
which had ever since it was built been the
town house of the Guilders family. It was a
noble house in its way, with a staircase of black
and white marble, and ceilings by Italian artists
of the period, and stately reception-rooms
which had seen many generations of fine
gentlemen and fine ladies pass through them
like painted shadows on a wall. He found the
girl alone in a little cabinet hung with French
paintings of the Watteau and Lancet time,
and in which every chair, table, and console
and guerdon were now heaped with roses.
She looked pale amidst the brilliant flowers
and the sparkling pictures ; her eyes had still
the dreamy, half-awake look which had fascinated
Guilders, but they had a look of fatigue
as well.

'I hope you will let me greet you as a
relative as I could not do at the palace just
now,' said Lord Aubrey ; and he bent his head
and lightly touched her cheek with his lips.
He pitied her intensely ; it was wholly absurd

VOL. I. R

that he should do so, and he knew it, and
yet he could not resist the impulse of compassion.
He could understand all that she felt
of bewilderment, of fatigue, of shyness, and of
apprehension before this new life which had descended
on her with such startling suddenness
and splendour.

You must have thought us all boors not to
come to your marriage,' he continued, ' but it
was your father's and Evelyn's desire to have
none present. We did not even know on what
day it was. I am so glad, my dear, that I am
the first to see you. We must be great friends,
as well as cousins. Will you allow me that
honour ? '

She smiled. Her smile was still the spontaneous,
unstudied, glad smile of a child. She
felt grateful to Aubrey, and the sound of his
voice and the pressure of his hand seemed to
her full of kindness and protection.

Did I do right to-day, do you know, at the
Court ? ' she asked him. ' I think he was satisfied,
was he not ? '

'If he were not,' began Aubrey, — then
checked himself, and answered quietly, ' You
did perfectly, and it was a great ordeal ; it was

SO crowded. You have never seen anything of
this London world of ours, I think ? '

She shook her head.

I want to go to Ladysrood. They brought
me all these roses to make it feel like the
country. He told them to do it, but it is not
the least like the country. I should die if I
stayed here.'

Aubrey smiled.

This time next year you will tell me there
is no place like London. All women say so.'

I shall not. It is noisy, dark, and ugly.'

It is not beautiful, certainly ; but there* are
many beautiful things to be found in it, and
this house is one of them. You will get fond
of it in time. At present I daresay you feel
like a caged bird. Your jewels tired you, did
they not, to-day ? '

Yes, they were very heavy.'

Aubrey sighed a little as she spoke.

So is rank.'

She looked at him with curiosity.
' You are the Lord Aubrey, are you not ? '
she asked.

What do you mean, my dear ? No one
else has that title, if you mean that ? '

B %

No ; I mean that I have heard my father
praise you. I have heard him say that if the
English nobles were all like you they would
have no reason to fear the Deluge.'

That was very good of your father,' replied
Aubrey, pleased and touched. ' I suspect the
Deluge would come all the same if all the saints
and heroes of Christendom filled our order.'

He does not think that it would.'

He is happy enough to live out of the
sphere of practical politics,' said Aubrey, with
a smile.

For heaven's sake do not speak to her of
politics,' said Guilders, entering the room.
She has a terrible bias towards them already,
and I insist that lovely women should have
nothing to do with social questions.'

Her roses suit her better, certainly,' replied
Aubrey, as his eyes rested on her with a wistful
contemplation.

That child will be very unhappy if she loves
him, and probably equally unhappy if she does
not,' he thought, as he took his leave, and went
on his way to the House of Commons.

She interested him. He saw much farther
into her nature after half-an-hour's conversation

with her than Guilders had seen of it after
three months of the most intimate association
with her.

He has certainly given her everything that
a man can give,' thought Aubrey, ' and yet I
suspect he will never give her the one thing
which such a woman as she will become will
chiefly want.'

Aubrey had little time or inclination in his
career to study the intricacies and frailties of
women's temperaments, but he was a man of
quick sensibilities and of swift penetration.

He believed in feeling, though the world
thought him a cynic. Politics had absorbed
most of his own life, and the emotions had
not enjoyed much play in it. But perhaps
for that reason his sympathies, when they
were aroused, had a great freshness in them.
People in general were afraid of him, for his wit
could be bitter and unsparing ; but children
or dogs were never afraid.

CHAPTER XVlll.

Well, my dear, what do yoii think of life ? '
said John Lemon to his daughter, when Guilders
and Gladys went to Ladysrood for Whitsuntide.


Gladys was standing in the little study. She
wore a grey dress with a broad hat, with long
ostrich feathers drooping over it ; she had a silver
belt round her waist, long gloves, and one very
large pearl at her throat, with a few pale tea
roses. It was only two months since she had
left Christslea, and yet she looked to him utterly
changed ; as changed as though she had been
absent for years. She hesitated a little and
coloured. It would have been wholly impossible
to her to find words for the curious
mingling of great joy and of apprehensive disappointment
which her marriage had brought
to her : the vague sense which she was possessed
with that love was at once bitter and sweet.

John Vernon saw the embarrassment she
felt, and regretted it. He would have been
better satisfied by some youthful outburst of
undoubting enthusiasm and ecstasy.

'You have quite a look of the world
already,' he continued, with a smile. 'What
a toilette of Paris will do for a child ! If it
were not too rude to a peeress, I would tell
you, my dear, that you are actually grown !
And so you wished for our rough seas and
leaden skies, even in Venice ? That was very
sweet and faithful of you. And yet I think I
would sooner hear that you had never thought
of us there.'

I should have been very thankless not to
think,' she said, still with a heightened colour
on her cheeks. ' Things seemed so much
simpler, too, when I was here,' she added,
after a little pause.

No doubt they did, since you saw nothing
but the poultry and the pigeons,' said her
father with a smile : whilst he thought, ' It is
very early for your difficulties to have begun,
my poor little princess ! '

In what way does your life seem to have
any perplexity ? ' he asked aloud ; ' and when

you feel any do you not take your puzzles to
Guild troy ? '

I think it would tease Mm if I did.'

All I Then don't do it, dear. Fever
worry any man. We are fretful creatures,
with more nerves than women, though we
pretend to have none. My dear Gladys, I was
so much opposed to your marriage while you
were so young, because I knew that it would
not be only a garden of roses for you. There
are the roses no doubt, but there are the briars
too. You have the pleasures of life, my love,
and you must pay for them with the pains.
What is it pains you most ? '

'I am not surer and he saw that she was
speaking the truth — ' I am not sure that anything
pains me. Only I fancy that I am not
quite what he wants, what he wishes.'

So soon ! ' murmured Vernon with a sigh.
I daresay that is imagination, my dear,' he
said, repressing what he felt.

When the first ardours of love subside they
always leave a vague disappointment because
the fever heat of them cannot be sustained.
You are now feeling the reaction which follows
them as invariably as evening follows day. If

you wish to be really happy, my child, do not
doubt and do not analyse. Self-examination
is very apt to grow morbid. It has its uses,
but it may very easily have its abuses too.
You have the faults of youth and inexperience,
no doubt, but I do not think they are very
grave ones, and they will mend with time.'

She was silent some moments. Then she
took off her hat and pushed back the hair
which hung over her forehead.

Father, do tell me,' she said in a very low
voice, ' how shall I ever know if he really
loves me ? ' •

My dear child ! '

John Vernon was startled and dismayed ;
he had had his own doubts as to the ultimate
happiness of the union, or rather he had had
no doubt of it, but a profound conviction that
it would bring little happiness to either of them
in the end. But he had not expected any
shadow to fall quite so soon across the garden
of roses, across the brightness of the morning
light. He scarcely knew what to say to her.

Can you doubt it, dear ? ' he replied evasively.
'Surely you cannot. No man can
have given greater proof of it than he. If he

had not loved you greatly, why should a man
of his high position and powers to charm have
taken the trouble to woo a little country girl
without a penny to her fortune ? I think you
do Lord Guilders injustice and dishonour by
your doubt.'

She gave a little sign of dissent, faint and
sad and incredulous.

He might think he loved me,' she said ina
very low voice. 'He might think so and
then find it was not true — how shall I know ?
How do women know ? '

Good God ! What can he have let her
see or feel to put such a cruel fancy in her
mind already ? ' thought Vernon as he looked
at her in trouble and anxiety of spirit.

He did not know what to say to her, and
he was afraid even to show the anxiety he felt
lest it should increase a feeling already morbid
and possibly baseless.

Do you care for him .^ ' he said abruptly,
looking her full in the face.

Yes.'

A blush rose over her face, and her eyes
fell under his gaze. For the first time he
failed to see entirely into her thoughts, but

he saw that she was very much changed.
Possession, which often weakens and chills
the heart of the man, usually awakens and
enchains the heart of the woman. She had
been a child without any knowledge of love
on the day when John Yernon had given her
hand to Guilders ; but now, however young
she was in years, she was a woman in feeling.

He laid his hands on her shoulders and
kissed her forehead.

Then, my dear,' he said, gravely, ' do not
ask yourself what is, or what is not, the measure
of his love. Make yours so great, and keeji it
so patient, that it shall be a treasure he can never
get elsewhere ; so only will you ever attain or
bestow real happiness. Do not analyse either
love or happiness too much. They are like
flowers, like butterflies — they die beneath the
lens of the microscope.'

Gladys looked up at him in silence ; her
face was grave and pale.

He could not tell whether she were satisfied
or dissatisfied, whether she believed in happiness
or had already ceased to expect much of it.
They said no more, and spoke of other things.
Much as he longed to know all the innocent

secretes of her mind, John Vernon would not
aid her to continue a self-examination which
might so easily become self-torture. He knew
that women are at all times over-fond of self-contemplation,
and analysis of themselves and
of the affections they receive and return.

Men are not so fond of it ; their greater
activity and more frequent pleasures make
them usually impatient when they are forced
to much self-examination, and their moral
record is rarely clear enough for them to care
long to look at it. But women have a passion
for moral vivisection, and spend many an hour
of torment, turning in and out, and stripping
bare the delicate nerves of their own organisations.
He wished to check his daughter on the
threshold of this laboratory of the imaginations
and affections.

The great advantage of a great position is
that it leaves little time for such dangerous
meditations. Society may not be very elevating
or very ennobling, but its demands and
its diversions, even when they become tedious,
fill the mind and leave small space for self-contemplation.
In many ways it is an evil,
and it is unfavourable to the growth of great

thoughts ; but it is also an aid to happiness, or
to such near likeness to happiness as most
human lives attain, and John Yernon was unselfishly
glad that the world would, if perforce,
surround his child so completely. Love can
make its own world in a solitude a deux but
marriage cannot. He knew that.

Why must the two be divorced Gladys
would have asked him wistfully.

He would have answered her, or probably
he would have been too merciful to answer her,
that love and certainty can never dwell long
together ; and the foe that every woman has-to
dread most utterly is habit — habit which makes
the nostrils insensible to the perfume of the
rose, and the ears unconscious of the melody of
the fountain.

CHAPTEE XIX.

You are twenty-one years of age tomorrow,
are you not ? ' said Aubrey to his cousin's wife
one autumn day on the terrace of Ladysrood.

Yes ; it seems very old.'

She sighed as she spoke. Aubrey laughed,
then he sighed too.

It is very sad if you can feel it to be so
he said seriously.

I do. I feel quite old. I suppose a
woman who is not' — she was about to say
• not happy,' but checked herself and said
instead, ' who has lost her children can never
feel young.'

Not young at twenty ! My dear Gladys,
you must be jesting, though it is a very sad
jest.'

Oh no. I am not jesting indeed,' she
replied.

Aubrey looked at her with curiosity and

tenderness. 'Happiness is a matter of temperament,'
he said vaguely.

I suppose so.'

Who should feel young if you do not ?
So young in years as you are, with perfect
bodily health, and all wishes of your heart
satisfied except one, which no doubt will be
satisfied ere long ? '

She did not answer.

She was thinking how surely on the morrow
she would find some superb jewel which she
did not want lying on her table as a birthday
gift from her lord ; and how equally surely
when she should meet him later in the morning
there would be the indifference in his caress
and the conventionally in his congratulation,
which may be concealed as completely and as
perfectly as kindliness and courtesy can conceal
them, but which yet show through these
as plainly as the gilded copper shows in a little
while through the thin gold. How much
more feeling would there be in Aubrey's brief
warm greeting, or the little Latin poem which
her father would be sure to send up to herat
morning, penned on parchment in the style
of the Latin booklets, rolled on the umbilicus

with carved ivory ends, and made as completely
like such a little messenger of the Cedars'
times as scholarship and love could make it !

What a difference ! Oh, what a difference !
though the little booklet would only have costa
few hours' labour, and the great jewel two
or three thousand guineas !

Do you think anybody's wishes are ever
granted? ' she said now.

Aubrey hesitated to reply.

Yes ; I think they are. Very often we do
not like them when we get them, but that is
not the fault of fate who has humoured us
with our selected toys.'

Have you had your wishes ? '

No ; for I always wished before everything
for a strictly private life, wholly beyond
all possibility of comment or interference from
the world. As it is I have the felicity of
being one of those people who cannot move a
step without reporters being after them, which
to me so absolutely poisons all existence that
I could willingly change places with any one
of my hinds at Balfrons.'

Publicity is the twin of Demos,' said
Guilders, hearing the last words as he approached



them. ' Between them they will
make life altogether insupportable to the man
of talent of the future. No one will do anything
even in the very least excellent or
original, because of the penalty of the public
pillory which will await it.'

That I believe,' said Aubrey. ' But it is,
I suppose, only the market-place of Athens
or Syracuse over again, with ostracism or
petals.'

'There were at least unknown worlds to
which to migrate then,' said Guilders. ' You
were, I believe, trying to teach Gladys mere
enjoyment of such a world as we have. I
wish you could succeed. Who is it has said
that beauty smileless is as a fair landscape
without light ? '

She had walked a little way from them in
the autumn sunshine.

She has had a great sorrow,' said Aubrey.
'The sort of sorrow a woman feels acutely
though we do not.'

That I quite understand,' said his cousin
with some ennui. 'But all that kind of feeling
passes with time ; she is very young ; she
might be gayer and happier if she chose, very

VOL I. R

naturally I think and with great advantage.
The world would like her better. It does not
like serious women.'

Is she so very serious ? '

Can you doubt it ? She takes everything
seriously : society, duty, pleasure, fortune,
even myself, whom no woman ever took seriously
without regretting it ! '

He laughed as he spoke, but Aubrey smiled
more sadly.

She stands in a serious relation to you.'

Unfortunately.'

The word escaped him without thought.
She returned nearer to them at that moment,
the pale autumn sunshine shining on her uncovered
head, and her slender white throat
disclosed by a high lace collar, like those in
Marie Antoinette's portraits, opening in front
with a knot of gardenias closing it on her breast.

She looked older than her years. It
seemed to her as if she had lived half a century
since she had left Christslea on the day of her
marriage, now nearly four years before, when
her father had walked through the golden
gorse, wishing that it might be a symbol of her
future life.

She was famous as one of the patrician
beauties of England.

For the world she had just that mixture of
success and of failure which made Guilders
at once gratified and irritated.

Her great beauty could not be contested ;
the ' grand manner ' which had come to her
instinctively was perfect in its high breeding
and comeliness. Society followed, imitated, and
crowned her. But she was not liked ; men
thought her cold, women considered her rude ;
every one who knew her was jealous of her
or offended by her in some way or another.
The world, like her husband, did not find
her ' facile,' and in the frivolities and crazy
caprices of the society of the close of this
century she was alienated and stood aloof.
She had been made a leader of fashion without
being even aware that she was so. A colour
or a flower, a mode or a place, which she
selected became at once celebrated by her
choice of it. There is great caprice in all
forms of fame, and in none more so than in
the fame which society awards to one of its
members.

Society had never found any one so pros

2

soundly ignorant of fashion as she was when
she first appeared in it ; and it had seen no
one so little penetrated by its temper and its
homage as she still was ; out of the very spirit
of contradiction it made her one of its sovereigns,
though the sceptre it offered seemed to
her not of as much worth as any stalk of a
bulrush growing by the mere of Ladysrood.

When a woman is happy she can be elastic
and sympathetic even, to what she dislikes;
happiness gives suppleness, softness, and indeed
force to the character as sunshine ripens
and mellows fruit.

But she was not happy ; she loved her
husband passionately, and she had from the
earliest days of their union been conscious that
he was impatient and weary of her. She
could not console herself with small things as
women usually can do. She cared scarcely at
all for her position, her influence, the pleasures
of the world, or the extravagance of her
toilettes ; and the flatteries she received produced
no more impression on her than the
beating of the rain against her carriage panels
as she went to Court.

She had given birth to two male children,

but one had died before birth and the other a
few months afterwards. It was supposed by
those who knew her that her want of interest
in all which went on around her was due to
this disappointment ; but it was not that only
which made life void of satisfaction to her.
The greatest suffering of her life arose from the
fact that her fine and penetrating intelligence
coidd not let her be Wind to the discovery
that whatever sensual or sentimental desire had
hurried Guilders into his marriage, she was
now absolutely nothing in his existence ; nay,
was even perhaps something which perpetually
annoyed and irritated him by the mere sense
that she was there, for ever, in his existence.

Outwardly, however, all was still well.

Your melancholy predictions are happily
falsified, you see,' he said to John Vernon one
day, who hesitated a moment before he replied.

I am sincerely glad to hear it.'

Your tone is sombre and incredulous, and
I fear you doubt it still ? '

I am afraid that of marriage, as of men,
one is forced to say, " Call it not happy till its
end is seen." '

What, after all, is happiness ? George

Sand has best defined it, " Best un clair qui
traverse les brushes monotones de la vie'' '

'That is surely rather descriptive of ecstasy?
The ecstasy which, in the nature of things, must
have the lightning's brief duration as it has its
brilliancy. Happiness, I have always held, is
rather a matter of our own individual temperament
than of circumstances or of the passions.'

A philosopher's view ; true, no doubt, of
philosophers, hardly of mankind in general,
of womankind certainly not true.'

No, women are the creatures of the emotions
; a cold word, a letter a day late, a sigh
which they overhear and think is not for them,
suffices to make them wretched. I hope you
do not find Gladys over-sensitive? I could
hardly myself tell whether she were or not.
She was a child, and there was nothing to
rouse her feelings unless it were a stray dog ora
fisherman's boat that foundered.'

'No, I do not think she is impressionable,'
replied Guilders. ' She is certainly not impassioned.'


Ah ! ' Vernon looked at him with a little
sigh. ' What did I tell you ? She was years
too young.'

One is glad of a certain coldness in one's
wife. Coldness is not the word I ought to use,
however ; there is an absence of passion in
her ; I do not regret it ; it is a great shield in
the world.'

You would regret it if you loved her,'
thought Vernon. ' Or rather if you had really
loved her you would have taken pains to
conjure it away. I daresay you alarmed her at
first with the violence of your ardours, and
then you chilled her with the carelessness of
your tepid affections, and between the two the
soul in her is scared and shuts itself up like «,n
oyster, closing its shell on its pearl.'

He was not more satisfied than he had been
before their marriage.

It seemed to him that the acquiescent contentment
of Guilders might very easily drift
on into mere indifference, and if the heart of
Gladys were now still asleep it would assuredly
awake some day.

How fatal is marriage ! ' he thought. ' A
man sees a woman, a woman a man, with
no knowledge, no experience of each other ;
very often without even any affinity, they enter
into the closest of all human relations, and

undertake to pass their lives together. It is
the habit of its apologists to say that it works
well, idiotic though it looks. It does not work
well. It hurries men and women blindly into
unions which often become absolutely hateful
to them, stifling to their development and
intolerably irritating to their inclinations. It
flies in the face of all the laws of sex. It is
a figment of the social code, irrational, unreal,
and setting up a gigantic lie as the scaffolding
which supports society. Nominally monogamous,
all cultured society is polygamous ;
often even polyandrous. Why is the fact not
recognised and frankly admitted? Why do
we adhere to the fiction of a fidelity which is
neither in nature nor in feeling possible toman?
Because property lays its foundations
most easily by means of marriage, therefore
the individual is sacrificed to property. I confess
that it makes one almost side with the
Socialists.'

It is not very long since you came hereon
the wings of a headlong and unconsidered
desire,' he said aloud. ' You have had your
desire ; can you honestly declare that you are
any the happier for it ? '

Guilders was embarrassed. He was
naturally sincere.

If I be not,' he said with effort, ' the fault
is certainly my own, and no one else's.'

He knew that he infinitely regretted his
marriage, but he could not say so to John
Vernon.

He resented it for five hundred reasons
which were for ever rising up in his memory.
He regretted it because he was impatient of its
obligations, and he received none of the compensation
which he had anticipated. His wife
was lovely, admired, and perfect in her manner
in the world ; but he did not believe that she
had any single opinion or feeling in common
with him. She gave him the constant impression
that she disapproved of all he said
and all he did ; she was neither pliant nor
facile ; she obeyed all his wishes invariably,
but there was something about her passive
obedience which irritated him more than any
refusal could have done. Physically, he had
tired of her as absolutely as though she had
had neither youth nor loveliness, and, mentally,
he had early concluded that her nature and
character were wholly unsuited to his own.

After all, it was the common doom he
thought ; no marriages were happy, the utmost
that the best of them became was a mutual
agreement to make the best of a mistake.
And little by little, every day and every hour,
she became less and less in his thoughts, of
less importance in his projects and wishes,
of less influence on his temper and temperament,
of less prominence in his life and his
feelings. On the whole it had been a failure,
and he knew it, but he was always desirous
that his society and his friends should be as
much blinded to the fact as was possible. He
was careful of every observance and consideration
for her before the world ; for to think
that the world ever talked of their union as
infelicitous would have been still more intolerable
to him than the infelicity itself.

And yet he was aware that he had a great
deal to be proud of in the woman who bore
his name, and a great deal to be grateful for
in that pride and delicacy in her character
which would, he was sure, prevent her from
ever jeopardizing his honour or her own.

On a les defaults de ses qualities,' he
thought often. ' If she had. been more impressionable

and more facile to me, she would
have been so to others as well as to myself.'


A man's error. One of the many errors
which are very common to men, and stand
for ever between them and their true comprehension
of women.

Sometimes, when he was in a contented
mood, he told himself that it was as well as he
could have hoped ; she was much handsomer
than most ; high-bred in manner and feeling ;
and, if too silent, her silence at least preserved
her from the coquettes and imprudences which
compromise socially so many women. If she
spoke little, she at least spoke well when she
did speak. She looked admirably effective in
any one of his houses ; whether at Ladysrood,
or in London, Paris, or Venice. She had that
look as of an old portrait, a Reynolds, a Gainsborough,
a Mignard, or a Giorgione, which
makes a woman accord with old and picturesque
and stately residences.

On the whole it might have been worse, he
often told himself; but then this resignation
is not the language of happiness.

'You always saw the Princess in Perdita,'

said Hilda Sunbury once to her cousin Aubrey ;
and he answered, ' Yes ; it was very easy to
see that. I think the heart is always Perdita's,
always sighing a little for the shepherd's hut,
and the pressed curds, and the oaten cake.'

What a simpleton if she is ! ' remarked
Lady Sunbury, who had no patience with shepherds
or for those who sighed for them.
Because she has not even the very smallest
of stones in her shoe, she goes miles out of her
way to pick up one to put in it ! '

What pebble does she pick up ? ' asked
Aubrey.

How should I know ? ' said Lady Sun-bury.
' She picks up ever so many, I believe.
The most impossible thing of all is that she is
sentimentally in love with Evelyn. As if there
could be ever anything surer to drive him
headlong away from her ! He has been a
man of many, many caprices, but nothing would
ever be so appalling to him as to be loved with
anything approaching a grande passion. He
cannot endure worry ; he abhors the expression
of anything like strong emotion. He is amiability
itself as long as you do not fatigue him,
or bore him; but the moment you do either he

puts a cross against your name and avoids you.
If she does not understand that, he will avoid
her. Avoid her permanently ! He was never
in love with her. His fancy was captivated
and his obstinacy was charmed by the idea
of marrying what he admired and I disliked.
That was all. He thought her lovely and
he wished for her ; her loveliness has lasted,
but his wishes have not lasted with it.'

Who was it said that in a year it is just
the same to you whether your wife is Venus ora
Hottentot ? ' said Aubrey. ' I do not go
quite so far as that, but I am certain that
Venus, when she can always be had, does
cease to seem beautiful to her possessor. I
once asked an Austrian abbot if he could ever
weary of the view before his windows over the
Danube ; it was so beautiful ; and the abbot
said to me, " Dear Sir, I have looked at
that view so long that it seems marvellous tome
you can find any beauty in it at all ! "
That is human nature, in a monastery and out
of it.'

Lady Sunbury was a woman who had no
illusions, and she was extremely angry with
people who were silly enough to nourish them.

They seemed to her the most useless things in
the world ; exorbitant in their demands, baseless
in their formation, and foredoomed before
their birth to disappointment. Material advantages
were, after all, what really mattered,
she thought ; ease, affluence, and influence the
only real enjoyment of existence ; and she —
whose whole life for twenty years had been
made painful and irritating to her by financial
difficulties, by conjugal quarrels, by standing
the helpless witness of extravagance and folly,
repeated from father to son, and all the incessant
mortifications which await the contrast of
a great position with a narrow fortune — felt no
patience with what appeared to her the mere
sentimental childish imaginary sorrows of her
young sister-in-law : they seemed to her like
weeping for the moon.

I believe you encourage her in her delusions,'
she added.

'I do not see her enough to encourage
anything, good or bad,' said Aubrey.

It was not strictly true. Whenever his
cousin was in England he saw his cousin's
wife, and found time to do so even when his
crowded and harassed life could ill afford the

few spare hours in it to any mere personal
interest. She had interested him on the first
day that he had called on her in the Watteau
cabinet amongst the roses, and had found her
tired of the weight of her jewels and of the
darkness and noise of the great capital.

Many times during the London season he
put aside weighty labours to find moments for
her boudoir, and when he had no day for anyone
else he would always take one, amidst the
stress of political excitement, to pass a few
hours at Ladysrood whenever his cousin was
there. He was a man of strong feeling which
slumbered underneath the prosaic cares of a
political career. His imagination was still
alive ; and he had a vague consciousness that
he was watching the opening scenes of a story
which might possibly turn some day to tragedy,
whenever he found himself associated at any of
the great gatherings of Ladysrood, or listened
to any expression of divergent opinion between
Guiideroy and his wife.

She might be perfectly happy from one
year to another,' continued Lady Sunbury irritably.
' Has she no idea of all that she owes to
Providence for having given her a companion

who is good-tempered and a purse which is
full? Does she expect a Prince Charming like
my brother to sit always at her feet ? Does
she think that because she has married him
all other women cease to exist for him ? Does
she expect to make a homing pigeon of a
migratory nightingale ? She must be a fool,
absolutely a fool ! '

No, she is not that ; not that by any
means,' said Aubrey. ' She is only a woman —
very much in love, very ignorant of life, and
totally unable to understand the caprices and
vagaries of the male temperament.'

Well, if that goes on she will be a fool,'
said Hilda Sunbury. ' You will admit so much ?
How can she live in the world day and night
as she does and not learn something ? '

Perhaps she will learn more than he will
like, some day.'

What do you mean ? '

What I say. I do not mean anything
especial ; but I think as a general rule women
who have two grains of sense do not continue
jealous of a man who is indifferent to them,
but rather turn the tables and give him cause
for jealousy.'

Is that the advice you will give her ? '
I shall not give it her certainly, but you
may be sure a great many men will.'
And do you think she will take it ? '
'I should say that would entirely depend
on her mood of the moment.'

On her mood : not on her principles ? '
My dear Hilda — 'point de phrases ! — that
sense of principle resists in a woman all temptation
from without only just as long as it is
not tempted from within. So long as she is
still in love with Evelyn he will be safe, unless
in a moment of pique she revenges herself ill
the endeavour to make him feel ; but the

instant she ceases to care Well, I do not

suppose that the Guilders scutcheon will then
be the religiously sacred thing to her which it
appears to you. I have great belief in the
affections of women, but I have no belief in
what is termed their virtue. I mean that they
are to be controlled through the one, not
through the other. Moralists say that a soul
should resist passion. They might as well say
that a house should resist an earthquake.'

What a doctrine ! ' exclaimed Lady Sun-bury,
shocked.

VOL. I. T

Aubrey looked at her with a smile. * Oh,
there are souls which are passionless, no doubt,
as there are houses which are not built over
a volcanic current,' he said, and thought to
himself :

What should you know — you thoroughly
excellent and most irritating of Englishwomen?
What should you know ? Your whole soul has
been centered in externals, in ceremonials, in
social dignities, in social duties, bound in the
buckram of routine, and stiff with the starch
of position ? What should you know of all the
great passions which make life bloom like a
Sicilian pasture in flower in May, only often
to lay it waste under lava, as Etna poiu-s fire
and stones over the asphodels and the irises ? '

But he did not say so ; she would have
thought him mad ; and she, like the world,
knew nothing of the tragedy in his own life
which made him so infinitely pitiful to all woes
of the passions and emotions ; she, like the
world, thought him a man without a grain of
romance in his nature.

Aubrey perceived, what his cousin did not
take the trouble to see, that Gladys was not
happy : was depressed by an affection — very

strong ou her part once, very slight on her
husband's — and was restrained at once by pride
or by shyness from ever expressing anything
which she felt.

She was not demonstrative by nature, and
if she had been so she would have hesitated to
risk wearying Guilders by the expression of
what she felt was indifferent to him. The
demonstrations of his passion had not lasted
long ; they had left her with remembrance
of a fervour and a phrenzy which she could
never forget, and which made the mere mechanical
caresses of habit wholly intolerable
to her If she had never been loved in this
way she might have lived contentedly without
it ; but the intoxication of those first weeks in
Venice had taught her all that love could be.
To become after then merely the mistress of
his house, merely the rarely remembered object
of conventional embraces, was to her an unendurable
torture. She appeared to him cold
when her whole senses and emotions were
writhing under the carelessness and indifference
of his.

He only recollects my existence now and
then because he wishes for children,' she felt

bitterly. He was always courteous, kind, and
gentle ; but as every month passed away she felt
more and more that he had never really cared
for her. He had married her out of caprice,
passing admiration, fancy for what was new
and strange to him, and the sense that he must
some day marry or see his title and estates
pass to persons whom he detested. Her clear
and quick comprehension taught her this very
soon, and occasional phrases which she overheard
from the women most intimate with him
confirmed her knowledge. She felt that those
who liked her pitied her, whilst those who
liked him, the far larger number, regarded
her with something more disdainful than pity.
The sense of that gave her a calmness quite
foreign to her nature, and a strength of self-repression
injurious at her years.

She had had everything to learn of the
world into which she was launched ; but she
soon became acquainted with its intricacies, its
meanings a demi-mots its profound heartlessness
and unscrupulousness veiled by such
polished externals. She had at first failed to
comprehend many things v.^hich passed around
her, but little by little she had learned to attach

their full meaning to them, and thus she
arrived in the third year of her married life
to a perception that the affections which Guilders
did not give to her he took elsewhere.
He did not, indeed, ever offend her by notorious
or openly displayed attachments ; but she
knew that the society of almost any other
woman was more agreeable to him than her
own. She saw that he was sought, flattered,
admired, tempted, on all sides; and she saw
that he did not resist, or try to resist, the
temptation. Whether they were in London or
Paris, in Italian cities or German watering
places, or at their own country place, or the
country places of their friends, she saw that
any woman, seen for the first time and possessing
beauty or charm enough to attract him,
became for the time being infinitely more the
mistress of his thoughts and feelings than she
had ever had power to be.

I wish you would endeavour to be amusing,'
he said, more than once to her. ' I assure you
in these days Helen or Arises herself would
have no chance in the world if she were not
amusing.'

'And were I amusing, I should have no

power to amuse you,' she thought, though she
did not say it. She was not amusing, because
she was not amused. She was not amused because
she was not happy. In happiness one
enjoys trifles like a child, and the great world
only seems to us a brilliant decor de scene set
out on purpose to illustrate and illuminate our
own romance, which is being played on its
stage. But in the depression of repressed affections
or disappointed illusions, the best of its
pageantry leaves us depressed and displeased.
The world thought Lady Guilders stupid,
and when it was disturbed in this opinion
by some unexpected allusion or some curt incisive
phrase which showed in her both the
habits of study and the powers of sarcasm, it
disliked her still more than when it had believed
that her lovely mouth could only drop
monosyllables.

EJSD OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Spottismoode ^' Co. Printers, New-street Square, London.

A List of Books

PUBLISHED Dei

CHATTO & Winds,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Sold by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers.

Abbe Constantine (The). By
LuDOvic Halevy, of the French
Academy. Translated into English.
With 36 Photogravure Illustrations by
GoupiL & Co., after the Drawings of
Madame Madeleine Empire. Only
250 copies of this choice book have
been printed (in large quarto) for the
English market, each one numbered.
The price may be learned from any
Bookseller.

About.— The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. preparing.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. With Coloured Frontispiece
and Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Carp of Carrlycn. | Confidences.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Maid, Vi/ife, or Widow?

Va erie's Fate. ^

Allen (Grant), Works by: ♦

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
The Evolutionist at Large.
Vignettes from Nature.
Colin Clout's Calendar.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards., 2s. each.
Strange Stories. With a Frontispiece

by George Du Married.
The Beckoning Hand. With g
Frontispiece by Townley Green.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 61. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Philistia.
For Maimie's Sake.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each,
Babylon : A Romance.
In all Shades.

The Devil's Die. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 33. 6d.
This Mortal Coil. Three Vols., crown

^ 8 vx) .

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collects
Crown Svo, cloth extra, wiflf

639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Arnold. — Bird Life in England

By Edwin Lester Arnold, Crown'
Svo, cloth extra, 6s,

Artemus Ward ;

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farmer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward, With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With a
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Apr(The) of Amusing : A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A History of the Chap Bocks of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in lac-simile
ot the originals.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, V.'it, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. Withnearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 115 Illustrations.


Modern Street Ballads. With 57
Illustrations.

Barter i a.— A~SyTiopsi3 of~the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Spe lies. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
Tjliists.^^ Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

B a n K e res , A~ H a n d book "of" Lo n -

don ; together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

3 apdsr8y(RevTaW.]rWorks by :

English Surnames: Their Sources
and Significations. Third Edition,
revised. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, Gs.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor. M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Beauchamp. -

Grange: A Novel.
Beauchamp. Post 8'

G r a n 1 1 e y

By Shelley
illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists : A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. All engraved
on Steel in the highest style ot
Art. Edited, with Notices of the
Artists, by Sydney Armytage, Mea,
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt
edges 21s.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 63. 6d. ;
gilt e does, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Ill uses, Crown 8vo, cloth ex tra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1889.— One

Shilling Monthly.— A New Serial Story,
entitled Passion's Slave, by Richard
Ashe King, Author of "The Wearing
of the Green," "A Drawn Game," &c.,
began in the January Number, and
will be continued through the year.
*^* Bound Volumes from the begi:iiii>tg

kept in stock, cloth extra, gilt edges, 73. Gd.

each: Cases for Binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number,

published Annually in July ; and Belgravia
Annual, published Annually in
November. Each Complete in itself.
Demy 8vo, with Illustrations, Is. each.

BemTettlW.C.,LL.D.),Wo~rksn&y:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England
Songs for Sailors.

Besant (Waiter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
bds., 23. each; cl. limp, I

Ready-money Mortify.

My Little Girl.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

The Golden Butterfly.

The Monks of Helena.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

The Seamy Side.

The Case of Mr. Lucraft, &c,

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay, &c,

The Ten Years' Tenant, &c.

!0, illust.
6d. each.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

All Sorts and Conditions of Men:
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.

All in a Garden Fair. With 6 Illustrations
by Harry Furnish.

Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece
by Charles Green.

Uncle jack, and other Stories.

Children of Gibeon.

The World Went Very V/ell Then.
With Illustrations by A. Forestier.

Besant (Walter), continued—

Herr Faults: His Rise, his Greatness,
and his Fall. With a New
Preface. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 61.

For Faith and Freedom. With
Illustrations by A. Forestier and F.
Waddy. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Fifty Years Ago. With 137 full-page
Plates and Woodcuts. Demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 16s.

The Eulogy of Richard Jefferies.
With Photograph Portrait. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Art of Fact ion. Dem y 8vo, l3.

New Library Edition of

Besant and Rice's Novels.

The whole 12 Volumes, printed from
new type on a large crown Hvo page,
and handsomely bound in cloth, are now
ready, price Six Shillings each.

1. Ready maloney IVIortiboy. With

Etched Portrait of James Rice.

2. Inly Little Girl.

3. With Harp and Crown.

4. This Son of Vulcan.

5. The Golden Butterfly. With Etched

Portrait of Walter Besant.

6. The Monks of Theresa.

7. By Celia's Arbour.

8. The Chaplain of the Fleet.

9. The Seamy Side.

10. The Case of IVlr. Lucraft, &c.
ir. 'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay, &c,
12. Th e Ten Years' Tenant. »S:c.

Bentham-Edwards (M.), Novels :

Felicia. Cr. 8vo, cloth extracts. 6d. ;

post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Kitty. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s,

Bewick (Thomas) and his

Pupils. By Austin DoBSON. With 95
Illusts. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Birthday Books :—

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

The Lovely Birthday Book. With
Illusts. SmaUSvo^cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbook.

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1876 to 1888, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1889. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Academy Notes, 1880-84 Complete
in One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 6s.

Academy Notes, 1885-89. Complete
in One Vol., with about 600 Illustrations.
Cloth limp, 7s. 6d. (Only a
few Copies for Sale.)

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1888, each l3.

Blackburn (Henry), continued-demy
8vo, Illustrated, uniform in
size for binding.

Grosvenor Notes, 1889. With numerous
Illusts. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, Vol. I., 1877-82.
V/ith upwards of 300 Illustrations.
DemySvo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, Vol. II., 1883-87.
With upwards of 300 Illustrations.
Demy Bvo, cloth limp, 63.

The New Gallery, 1888. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

The New Gallery, 1889. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 128 Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Dem y 8vo , cloth limp, 3s.

The Paris Salon, 1889. With 300 Facsimile
Sketches. 3s.

Blake (William) : Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Blind.— The Ascent of Man :

Poem. By Matilda Blind. Crown
bvo, printed on hand-made paper,
cloth extj;a, 73,

Bourne (H. R. Fox), Works by :

English Merchants: Memoirs in Illustration
of the Progress of British
Commerce. With numerous Illustrations,
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

English Newspapers: Chapters in
the History of Journalism. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 25s^

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 2l3. each
Canters in Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal

Coloured in facsimile of the origin als .

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s.6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, America.

Savage Life: Adventures of a Globe-trotter.


Chronicles of No-Man's Land
Post 8vo, illust. b yards, 2s.

Brand'sObservations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 73. ci.

Bret Harte, Works by:
Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol, II. Earlier Papers— Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
Bohemian Papers — Spanish
AND American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

—Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, fiji
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Bret Harte's Complete Poetical
Works. Author's Copyright Edition,
Printed on hand-made paper and
bound in buckram. Cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other

Stories. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.

Svo, picture cover, Is,
Luck cf Roaring Camp, and other

Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story, Cap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.

Flip. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.; cl, 2s. 6d.

Californian Stories (including The

Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff

Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post

Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Maruja: A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.

boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6(1,
The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With
28 original Drawings by Kate
Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours
by Edmund Evans. Sm.4to, bds., 5s.
A Phyllis of the Sierras, &c. Post Svo,
Illust. bds., 2s. cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Twelfth Thousand. With Appendix,
containing a Complete English
Bibliography. Cr, Svo, cloth 7s. Gd,

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

A Dictionary of miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown Svo,
cloth extra 73. Gd.

Brewster(SirDavid),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
Svo, cloth extra, 4s, 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives ol
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler,
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith, Post Svo, cl.^x,, 4s. 6d.

B r i 1 1 at S av^H ir -^ G last ro n o m y

as a Fine Art, By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R, E. Anderson, Mea.
Post 8vo, printed on laid-paper and
hal f-bound, 2s.

Bridges, — Uncle Sam at

Home. By Harold Bridges. Post
Svo, illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 61.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hughes.
Selected Poems Robert Buchanan,

With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.
The Earthquake; or, Six Days and

a Sabbath.
The City of Dream: An Epic Poem,

With Two lists. by P, Macnab.

Second Edition.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
C own Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Evei\ With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab.

Annann Water. 1 The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Master of the Mine.

The Heirs Linnet

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Cap. Svo, picture cover. Is, each.
Kathleen Mavcurneen,
Lindsay's Luck,
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain.— The Book

of the Sword : Being a History of the
Sword and its Use in all Countries,
from the Earliest Times. By Richard
F. Burton. With over 400 Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 32s.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Prose and Verse, Humorous, Satirical,
and Sentimental, by Thomas
Moore; with Suppressed Passages
from the Memoirs of Lord Byron.
Edited, with Notes and Introduction,
by R. Herne Shepherd. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Caine (T. Hall), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Shadow of a Crime.
A Son of Hagar.

The Deemster: A Romance of the
Isle of Man.

Cameron (Commander). —

The Cruise of the 'black Prince"
Privateer. By V. Loveth Cameron,
R.N.,C.B. With Two Illustrations by
P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Loveth),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s,

Burton (Robert):

The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Chapman's (George) Works :

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
ext ra, 18 s.; or separately, 63. each.

Chatty & Jackson.— A Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
ot the last Revised Edition. Large
4to. h als-bound, 28s.

C chaucer : — — r~ - -

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. Her . Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.
Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. DemySvo. cloth l imp, 2s. 6d.

Chronicle (The) of the Coach :

Charing Cross to Ilfracombe. By J. D.
Champlain. With 75 Illustrations by
Edward L. Chichester. Square 8yo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cloud.— Myths and Dre^mi^

By Edward Cloud, F.R.A.S., Author
of "The Story of Creation," &c.
Cro wn 8vo, c loth extra, 5s.

Cobban.— The^Cure of Soul sT :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post 8vo, ill stated boards, 2s.

Coleman (Jo h hy, Wo r k s by I

Curly: An Actor's Story. Illustrated

by J. C. Dolman. Crown 8vo, Is. ■

cloth. Is. 6d.
Players and Playwrights I have

Known. Two Vols,, demy 8vo, cloth

extra, 24s^

C o 1 1 i n s ( M o rt I m e r )7N vel sTby •

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. €d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by :
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonina. Illust. by SirJoHNGiLBERX.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J Malone.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White, With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

byG. DuMAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G, Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. P With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Malone.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Files and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Blacl< Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story ol the

Present Time.
"I Say No."
The Evil Genius.
Little Novels.

The Legacy of Cain. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. Hy C. Allusion
Collins. PostSvo, illustrated bds.,23.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
Svo cloth extra, gilt, 73. 6d.

Colquhoun.— Every Inch a Soldier
: A Novel. By M. J. Colquhoun.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal Svo, with 65 Lusts., 28s.

A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated

by W. J. Hennessy. Square Svo,

cloth extra, 63.

Pine and Palm: A Novel. Cheaper

Edition. Post Svo, illustrated boards,

2s ^ [Shortly.

Cook (Dutton), Novels by:

Leo. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Copyright. —A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright In
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Si dey Ferrol. Po stSvo , cl., 2s . 6a.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s . 6d.

C rad d oc k . — T h e P rope et~bf

the Great Smoky Mountains. By
Charles Egbert Craddock. Post
Sto illust. bds., 23. cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in

Two Series : The First from 1S35
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.
The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Ferrol, Author ot
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cummings, F. Gordon),Work8
by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illusts.

In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illusts.

Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece, Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook, of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra. 7s. 6 d.

Cycles.— Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Daniel. — Merrier England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
SHANK. Crown tvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet.— The Evangelist ; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse

Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illnst. beards, 23.

Covenant. — Hints for Parents

on the Choice of a Profession or
Trade for their Sons. By Francis
Covenant, M.A, Post 8vo, Is. ; cloth
limp, Is. 6d.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each ; cloth limp,

Is. 6d. each.

One Thousand Medical Maxims.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide.

Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 23. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev,
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 123.

Daylight Land: The Adventures,
Humorous and Otherwise, of
Judge John Doe, Tourist; Capias Peppered,
Capitalist ; Colonel Offend
others, in their Excursion over
Prairie and Mountain. By W. H.
Murray. With 140 Illusts. in colours.
Small 4to, cloth^exira, 12s. 6d.

De Maistre — A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
Bvo , clot h limp, 2s. 6d.

De Mille.— A Castle in Spain:

A Novel, By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece, Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 38. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds„ 28.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Sketches by Boz. I Nicholas Nickleby
Pickwick Papers. | Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,

1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. — Also
a Smaller Edition, in the Mayfair
Library. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev, E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s.6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. With an Appendix, containing
a Complete English Bibliography.
Eleventh Thousand. Crown 8vo,
1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, vj\th the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Familiar Short Sayings of Great
Men. With Historical and Explanatory
Notes. By Samuel A. Bent,
M.A. Fifth Edition, revised and
enlarged. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,7s.6d.

The Slang Dictionary: EtymoioijiCcil,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63. 6i.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. BypRANCES Hays. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and Out
of-the-Way Matters. By Elif.zer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; Lf.-bd., 93, .

Books PUBLISHED B\

Diderot.— The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies, " by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr, 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

hobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.


Donovan (Dick), Detective

Stories by :

PostSvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

The Man-hunter: Stories from the

Note-book of a Detective.
Caught at Last!

Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown Svo,
half-bound, 123. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. Svo,

cl. ex., Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol,

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with Introductory Essay
by A. Swinburne; Vol. 1 1 1., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk-lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Crown
Svo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Edgcumbe. — Zephyrus : A

Holiday in Brazil and on the River
Plate, By E. R. Pearce Edgcumbk.
With 41 Illusts. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 5s.

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Eggieston.— Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Emanuel. — On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s.

Englishman's House, The: A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House ; with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C.J. Richardson. Fourth Edition.
With Coloured Frontispiece and nearly
600 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s, 6d.

Eyes, Our: How to Preserve

Them from Infancy to Old Age. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S.,&c. Seventh
Edition (Twelfth Thousand). With
70 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth, I3

Familiar Short Sayings of

Great Men. By Samuel Arthur
Bent, A.M. Fifth Edition; Revised
and Enlarged. Cr. 8vo, cl . ex., 7s^ 6d.^

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.
The Chemical History of a Candle:

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.
On the Various Forces of Nature,

and their Relations to each other :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.

Farmer (James Anson), Works

by:
iVIilltary Manners and Customs.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
War: Three Essays, Reprinted from

Military Manners." Crown Svo,

Is .; clo th, Is. 6 d.

Fin Bee. — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fireworks, The Complete Art

of Making; or, The Pyrotechnist's
Treasury. By Thomas Kentish. With
267 Illustrations. A New Edition, Revised
throughout and greatly Enlarged.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Fitzgerald T^Percyj, Works by :

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

A Day's Tour: A Journey through
France and Belgium. With Sketches
in facsimile of the Original Drawings.
Crown 4to picture cover, Is.

Fatal Zero: A Homburg Diary. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Seventy five Broglie Street
Polly. I The L ad y of Bra nome.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete

Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. Svo, cloth bds.,63.

F^onblanque.— Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, ^9-

Francillon (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illust. boards, 23. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Cophetua. |

Olympia. Post Svo, illust. boards, 23.
Esther's Glove. Cap. Svo, Is.
King or Knave: A Novel. Cheaper

Edition. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Romances of the Law. Frontispiece

by D. H. Prison. Cr.Svo, cl. ex., 6s.

Frederic. — Seth's Brother's

Wife: A Novel. By Harold Frederic.
Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds 73. 6d. each.

Frenzy.— Fifty Years on the

Trail : The Adventures of John Y.
Nelson, Scout, Guide,and Interpreter,
in the Wild West. By Harrington
Reilly. With over 100 Illustrations
by Paul Frenzy. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [Preparing.

Free.— Pandurang Harl ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s . »

Friswell.— Oneof Two: Novel.

By Hair Friswell. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23^

F r ost~(T ho m as). Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
Old Showmen and Old London Fairs.

Fry's" (^H e r be rt ) "Royal G u Ide
to the London Charities, 1888-9.
Showing their Name, Date of Foundation,
Objects, Income, Officials, &c.
Edited by John Lane. Published Annually.
Crown Sv o, cloth. Is. 6d.

Gardening Books:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cl. limp. Is. 6d. each.

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management oC
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them,
By ToM Ferrol.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid tht Rent.
By ToM J errol. " ;

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. ByF.G. Heath. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, $s. ; gilt edges, 63.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Garrett.— The Capet Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman s Magazine (The)

for 1889.— Is, Monthly.— In addition
tc the Articles upon subjects in Literature,
Science, and Art, hoi which this
Magazine has sc high a reputation,
"Table Talk" by Sylvanus Urban
appears monthly.
^\^' Bound Vohnncs for recent years aye

kept in stock, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d.

each ; Cases sot binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

Published Annually in November. In
illuminated cover. Demy 8vo, l3.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor, Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
Gkokge Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 63. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s- 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Robin Gray.
V^hat will the

World Say?
Queen of the

IVieadow.
The Flower of the

Forest.

In Honour Bound.
Braes of Yarrow.
A Heart's Problem.

TheGoldenShaft.
Of High Degree.
Loving a Dream.

Poet 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
For Lack of Gold.
For the King. | In Pastures Green.
In Love and War.
By Mead and Stream.
Fancy Free. 1 A Hard Knot.
Heart's Delight.

B'ocd-Money,and o her Stories. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 12s

Gilbert (William), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth — Trial by [urv.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen — Dan'l Bruce — Tom Cobb —
H.M.S, Pinafore— Th? Sprfpr&r— Tue
Pjr;itrspf Psazaiic?, —

Gilbert (W. S.). continued—

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by W. S. Gilbert. Containing:
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
—The Pirates of Penzance — loathe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury, Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Blenny.— A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse : Practical
Advice tc Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management oi the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Blenny. Post 8vo, Is.; cloth. Is. 6d.

Godwin.— Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post 8vo, limp, 2s. •

Golden Library, The:

Square i6mo(Tauchnit? size), cloth
limp, 2s. per Volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr, W. C.) Ballad History
of England

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Godwin's (WIMIam) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Break
j fast Table.

j Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale lor a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.
Square imo, 23. per Volume.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical introductions
Notes, byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 73. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Flap, 8vo, picture Cover, 1^.

tx

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
KoNER. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. HuEFFER. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edition, large crown 8vo,
^ cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Green away (Kate) and Bret

Harte.— The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Ev ans. Sm. 4to, bds., 58.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3S. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
il 1 u stated boards. 23.

Greville (Henri). — Nikanor: A

Novel. From the French of Henri
Greville, Author of " Doria," &c.
With 8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Habberton (John), Author of

"Helen's Babies," Novels by :
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Breton's Bayou.
C ountr y Luck.

Hair (The) : Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown Svo, Is.; cloth, Is, 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Serpent Play.

IVIalden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra. 83. '

Hall. — Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C Hall. With
numerous illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cl both extra, gilt. 7s. 6d.

Holiday.— Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of
Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extracts. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Ductus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice : A Story. By Lady
DuFFus Hardy. Post Svo, illust. bs., 2s.

Hardy (Thomas.— Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crov\'n Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Haywood. — The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Haywood. Post svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by:

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small Svo, illustrated
cover, Is.; cloth limp. Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra.
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts. 3s.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, lOs. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
aud numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 63.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.). — American

Humorists: Washington Irving.
Oliver Wendell Holmes, James
Russell Lowell, Artemus Wad,
Mark Twain, and Bret Harte. By
Rev. H. R. Haweis. M.A. Cr. Svo. 6s

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroke

Ellice Question. Dust.
Fortune's Fool. I Beatrix Randolph.
David Poindexter's Disappearance.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
MissCadogna. | Love — or a Name.
Prince Saroni's Wife.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Cap. Svo, illustrated cover. Is.

A Dream and a Forgetting. By
Julian Hawthorne. Cr. Svo, picture
cover. Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

The Spectre of the Camera. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3j. Gd,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hays.— Women of the Day : A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
'♦ The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 63.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pressure.

Ivan de Biron: A Novel. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated
boards. 2s.

Henderson.— Agatha Page: A

Novel. By Isaac Henderson. With
a Photograph Frontispiece from a
Picture by F. Moscheles. 2 Vols.,
crown 8 vo.

Herman.— One Traveller Returns:
A Romance. By Henry Herman
and D. Christie Murray. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D,, Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossary Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :
Tunis: The Land and the People.

With 22 Illusts. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d. [
The New South-West: Travelling i
- Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico, '
Arizona, and Northern Mexico. !
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
14s. [/» preparation.

Hindley (Charles), Works by:

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: including

the Origin of Signs, and

Reminiscences connected with
Taverns. Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
■ Witty Illustrations. Crown'Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
The Life and Adventures of a Cheap

Jack. By One of the Fraternity.

Edited by Charles Hindley. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Holy.— The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Hoe. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by :

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. — Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
Svo, cloth him p, 2s.

Holmes. — The Science of
Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual tor the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Hood (TTiomas)":
Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:
From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 63.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2g.

Hook's (Theodore)" Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures,Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
I lusts. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, gilt, 73 . 6d.

Hooper. — The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Horse (The) and his Rider An

Anecdotic Medley. By " Thormanby."
Crown S vo, cloth extra, 63.

Hopkins—" 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

HorneT^rion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra a, 7s.

Hunt mrs. Alfred), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Thornicroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

SelfCondemned,

That other Person.



Hunt.— Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth him p, 2s.

Hydrophobia: an Account of M.
Pasteur's System. Containing a
Translation of all his Communications
on the Subject, the Technique of his
Method, and the latest Statistical
Results. By Renaud Suzor, Mab.,
CM. Eden., and M.D. Paris, Commissioned
by the Government of the
Colony of Mauritius to study M.
Pasteur's new Treatment in Paris.

With 7 lusts. Cr.Svo, cloth extra, 6S^

I ndoop Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish wTt and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. .
Post 8vo,cl.2imp. 23. 6d.

James.— A~ Rom an ce~^of the

Queen's Hounds. By Charles James.
Post 8vo, picture cove. Is. ; cL,^S. 6d.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by!

Nature near London. Crown Svo,
cl. ex., 63. ; post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

The Life of the Fields. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Open Air. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s . ; post Svo. cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

The Eulogy of Richard Referees.
By Walter Besant. With a photograph
ph Portrait. Cr. Svo, c l. ex 6s.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by :

Curiosities of Criticism. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph-portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ferrol (Tom),~Works byl

Post Svo, Is. each; cloth, Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

JesseT^Scenes ^nd~"Occu nations

of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Jeux esprit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

"John Herring," Novels by

the Author of:
Red Spider. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

33. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.
Eve. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
One Hundred Illustrations.

Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Tlwee Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Joseph US, The Com pleteWorks

of. Translated by Whistle. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 143.

Kempt. — Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Pos t Svo, cl othlimp, 2s. 6d.

Kershaw.— Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

King~(R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each-post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green "

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Oakshott Castle. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Number Seventeen. Crown Svo, clot
extra , 3s. 6d.

Knight.— The Patient's Vade

Mecum : How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S.,and Edw. Knight,
L.R.C.P. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Knights (The) of the Lion ; A

Romance of the Thirteenth Century.
Edited, with an Introduction, by the
Marquess of Borne, K.T. Cio.vn
Svo, cloth extra, 63.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd, With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the "Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr.8vo,cl. extra, 7s. Gd.

The Essays of Elia. Both Series
complete. Post 8vo, laid paper,
handsomely half-bound, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays: Sketches and Characters
by Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp,^s^ 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights.— The

Thousand and One Nights: commonly
called, in England, "The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.
With lusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
T theatrical Anecdotes.

Leigh (Henry S.), Works by:

Carols of Cockayne. A New Edition,
printed on cap. Svo, hand-made
paper, and bound in buckram, 5s.

Jeux esprit. Collected and Edited
by Henry S. Leigh. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23, 6d.

Less. — The Lindsay : A Romance
of Scottish Life. By John K.
Less. Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo,
illustrate ed boards, 2s. ^^

Life in London ; or, The History

of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Linskill. — In Exchange for a

Soul. By Mary Linskill, Author of
"The H: a Under the Hill," &c,
Cheaper Luit. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. Cd. each.
Witch Stories.

There Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Duncan
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
My Love ! " 1 lone.
Pastor Carew, Millionaire and

Miser. ^ ^

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

With a Silken Thread.

The Rebel of the Family.

i Longfellow's Poetical Works.

Carefully Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth e extra, 7s. cl.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,

Dietetic, and General Guide in Health
and Disease. By N. E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Cr. Svo, 23. ; cl. limp,2s.6d.

Lucy.— Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown Svo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy Svo, with Fourteen lull-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s

Machine (Avery Novels by :

Teresa Itasca, and other Stories.
Crown Svo, bound in canvas, 2s. 6d.

Broken Wings. With Illustrations by
W. J. Hennessv. Crown Svo, clothe
extra , 6s.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p);

Works by:
An Outline of the History of Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth,ls.6d.
Ireland since the Union: Sketches

of Irish History from 1798 to 1886.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s,
England under Gladstone, 1880-85.

Second Edition, revised. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown

Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy. Crown Svo,

Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.
Dolly: A Sketch. Crown Svo, picture

cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Hafiz In London. Choicely printed.

Small Svo, gold cloth, 33. 6d.



McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Work8
by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession ot Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 1880. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each.— Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl, extra, 6s. each.
And a Jubilee Edition, with an
Appendix of Events to the end ol
1886, complete in Two Vols., square
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. Gd. each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6(1. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Watergate Neighbours.
A Fair Saxon.
Miss IVlisantlnropQ.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Aliens.
Camiola: A Girl with a Fortune.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Linley Rochford.

My Enemy's Daughter.

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell-prayed. New and Cheaper
Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Malcolm— Mr. Stranger's

Sealed Packet : A New Story of
Adventure. By Hugh Macula.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

MacDonald.— Works of Fancy

and Imagination. By George Macdonald,
LL.D. Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. — Vol. i.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life.— Vol. 2. The Disciple. The
Gospel Women. A Book of Sonnets,
Organ Songs.— Vol, 3. Violin Songs.
Songs of the Days and Nights.
A Book of Dreams. Roadside Poems.
Poems for Children. Vol, 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs. —
Vols. 5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance.— Vol. 7. The Portent.—
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. — Vol. 9.
Cross Purposes. The Golden Key.
The Carson. Little Daylight. —
Vol. 10. The Cruel Painter. The
Woo' Riven. The Castle. The
Broken Swords. The Gray Wolf.
Uncle Cornelius.

The Volumes are also sold separately
in Qrolier-paUern cloth, 2s. 6(1. each.

Macdonald. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 64. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Mackay. — Interludes and Undertones

; or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown Svo
cloth extra, 63.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;

with Memoirs — Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal — illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

In the Ardennes, With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illusts, by Thomas R. Macquoid

Through Normandy. With go Illustrations
byT. R, Macquoid.

Through Brittany, With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience, Edited by
W. H, Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. V/ith 10 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on tine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mallock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. ci. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 83.

Is Life worth Living .=• Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur; The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Man - Hunter (The) : Stories
from the Note-book of a Detective. By
Dick Donovan. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; clo th, 2s. 6d.

Mark Twain, Works by:
The Choice Works of Mark Twain.

Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illust. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex,7s.6d.
The Innocents Abroad ; or. The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.
Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by F.
A. Eraser. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.
The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer
With III Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. — Cheap Edition
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illusts.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap
Edition, post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
The Stolen White Elephant, &c
Cr.Svo.cl.ex, 63.; post 8vo,illust.bs.,2s.
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Mark Twain's Library of Humour.
With numerous Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. ci.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, c loth extra, 6 3.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open! Se same! | Written n In Fire.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
Fighting the Air.

Massinger's Plays From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Waterman. — Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Matthews. — A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cloth, 23. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.

A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre, Translated

by Henry Attwell.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"
from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."
The Speeches of Charles Dickens.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.
The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.
Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury
Original Plays by W. S Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce— Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.
Songs of Irish Wit and Humour*
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.
Animals and their Masters. By Sit

Arthur Helps.
Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.
Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry

J. Jennings.
The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.



Mayfair Library, continued—

Pencil and Palette. By R. Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Forensic Anecdotes: or, Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood. [Leigh,

Jeux esprit. Edited bv Henry S.

True History of Joshua Davidson.
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton. [Macgregor.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert

The New Paul and Virginia. By
W. H. Mallock.

New Republic. By W. H. Mallock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of IVIayfair Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. a. Page.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By Hon. H. Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea By William
Senior.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
Lar. Cap. Lord. Or. 8vo, Is. ; cl., Is. 6d.

Menken.— Infelicity: Poems by

Adam Isaacs Menken. A New Edition,
with a biographical Preface, numerous
Illustrations by F. E. Lummis
and F. O. C. Harley, and Facsimile
of a Letter from Charles Dickens.
Beautifully printed on small 4to ivory
paper, with red border to each page,
and handsomely bound. Price 7s. 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the Rio
Grande. ANewBookof American Humour.
ByA. E. Sweet and J. Army.
Knox, Editors of " Texas Sittings."
With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s.6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Mill er. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:
Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.
The Hygien^of the Skin. A Concise
Set of Rules for the Management of
the Skin; with Directions for Diet,
Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c.
The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation
to Diseases of the Skin.

Into.— WasSneGoodorBad?

A Romance. By William Into.
Cr. 8vo, picts re co ver. Is .; cloth, l?.^d.

Wordsworth (Mrs), Novels by:
Hathercourt Rectory. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
That Girl in Black. Crown 8vo,

picture cover, I s. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Moncrieff. — The Abdication ;

or. Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by Joan Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirter, a. R. a., Colin Hunter,
A.R.A,, R. Macbeth, A.R.A., and Tom
Graham, R.S.A. Large 4to, bound in
buckram, 21s.

Moore (Thomas):
Byron's Letters and Journals; with

Notices of his Lite. By Thomas
Moore. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Prose and Verse, Humorous, Satirical,
and Sentimental, by Thomas
MooRE ; with Suppressed Passages
from the Memoirs of Lord Byron,
Edited, with Notes and Introduction,
by R. Herne Shepherd. With
a Portrait. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d .

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,clothextra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement, j A Model Father*.

Joseph's Coat. | Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Val Strange. I Hearts.

A Bit of Human Nature.

First Person Singular.

Cynic For tune.

The Way of the World. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2.<i.

Old Blazer's Hero. With Three Illustrations
by A. McCoRMicK. Crown
8vo, cloth ex., 6s.— Cheaper Edition,
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

One Traveller Returns. By D.
Christie Murray and H. Herman.
Cr.Svo.cl, ex., 63.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Haddock.— Stories Weird and

Wonderful. By J. E. Haddock. Post
8vo. illust. boards, 23. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Novelists. — Half-hours with
the Best Novelists of the Century :

ChoiceReadingsfrom he finest Novels.
Edited, with Critical and Biographical
Notes, by H. T. Mckenzie Bell.
Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d. [Preparing.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's
Guide in Health and Disease. By N. E.
D avies.L.R.C.P. Cr.Svo. Is. ;cl.,ls.6 d.

O'Connor,— Lord Beaconsfield:

A Biography. ByT. P. O'Connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

o'Hanlon (Alice), Novels by:
The Unforeseen. PostSvo, illust. bds.,2s.
Chance? or Fate P 3 vols., cr. 8vo.

Olivet. — Doctor Rameau : A

Novel. By Georges Ohnet, Author of
"The Ironmaster." &c. Translated
by Mrs. Castel Holy. With 9 Illustrations
by E. Bayard. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whlteladies. With Illustrations by

Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;

post 8vo, illustrate ed bo arts, 2s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each. ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress in England.

Reilly. — Piicebe's Fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (A.), Poems by :
Songs of a Worker. Cap. 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Cap. Svo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Cr.Svo, cl. ex.,10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23. each.

Held in Bondage.
Strath more.
Chances

Under Two Flags.
Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage,
Italia.
Tricotrin,
Puck.

Folle Farlne.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.

^ Dogof Flanders.

Pascal.

Signa. I Ariadne.
In a Winter City,
Friendship.
Moths. I Bimbl.
Pipistrello.
In Maremma.
A Village Commune.

Wands.

Frescoes. [Fine.
Princess Naprax-
Othman,

O 'JiDA—contin lied.
Guilders: A Novel. 3 vols., crown

Svo.

Ijnne.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Sm.cr.8vo,cl.ex.,5s.
Cheaper Edition, illust. bds., 2 s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :
Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With Portrait. Post8vo,cl.limp,2s.6d.
Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale, By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Pri nciple. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 5 s.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering In the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures of
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of "Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. A New
Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, with
Coloured Frontispiece and 100 Illustra
tho ns, 7s. 6 d. [Prepa ring,

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
P. P. Post Svo, cloth him p, 23.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By W. Knight, M,R.C.S.,and
E.Knight,L.R.C.P. Cr.Svo, Is.; cl. 1/6.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23, each,
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger.

Walter's Word.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy. 1 High Spirits.

Under One Roof.

A Confidential Agent,

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn,

From Exile, | The Canon's Ward,

The Talk of the Town.

Holiday Tasks. | Glow-worm Tales.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.each.
Kit: A Memory, | Carlton's Year*.
A Perfect Treasure.
Bentinck'sTutor.l Murphy's Master*
The best pf Husbands,



Pain (James), continued—
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
For Cash Only.

What He Cost Her. I Cecil's Tryst.
Fallen Fortunes. I Halves.
A County Family. | At Her Mercy
A Woman's Vengeance.
The ClyfTards of ClyfTe.
The Family Scapegrace.
The Foster Brothers.! Found Dead.
Gwendolen's Harvest.
Humorous Stories.
Like Father, Like Son.
A IVIarine Residence.
Married Beneath Him.
Mirk Abbey. | Not Wooed, but Won.
Two Hundred Poujids^ Reward.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
In Peril and Privation: Stories of

Marine Adventure Re-hold. With 17

Illustrations.
The Mystery of Mirbridge. With a

Frontispiece ce by Arthur R Hopkins s

Paul.— Gentle and Simple." By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post Svo.
illustrated boards, 2s.

Pears. — The^P^resent "Depression
In Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(ot One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
GoADBY and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Deny 8vo, Is.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten lull-page

lusts. by G. Du Maurier.
she Muses of Mayfair. Vers de

Societe, Selected and Edited by H.

C.^ENNELL.

Phelps (E. Stuart), \A/orks byT

Post Svo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each,
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars in Paradise.

Jack the Fisherman. With Twenty-two
Illustrations by C. W. Reed.
Cr. Svo. picture cover, Is. ; cl. I s. 6d.

PIrkis (C. L.), Novels by:
Trooping with Crows. Cap. Svo,

picture cover. Is
Lady Lovelace. Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 2s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Planches (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Poe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories, Post 8vo, illust.bds 23,

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s.

Prayed (Mrs. Campbell). — "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance ot
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards 2s. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

Gerald. Post Svo, illust, boards, 28.
Princess Olga— Rana ; or. The

Great Conspiracy of 1881. By the
Princess Olga. Cr. Svo, cl, ex., 6s.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by:

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d,

Easy star Lessons. With Star Maps
lor Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Mysteries of Tine and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. Svo. cloth extra, 6s.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown Svo, Is. 6d.

Rambosson. — Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown Svo, cloth gilt-numerous
Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra. 7s. ci.

Reade (Charles), Novels by:

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, illustrated, 3s. 6d.
each ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23. each,

Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
Files, A.R.A.

Christie Johnston. Illustrated by
William Small.

It Is Never Too Late to Ivied. Illustrated
by G. I. PiNWELL.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of ail Trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Lust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Files, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. IHust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself In His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Files, A.R.A.,
C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford. [Coulter.

A Woman-hater. Illust. by Thos.

Singleheart and Doubleface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. Macnab.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

The Jilt, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

Bible Characters : Studies of David,
Nehemiah, Jonah, Paul, &c. Cap.
8vo, leatherette, l3.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra. 63.

Liddell (IVlrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square Svo, cloth gilt, 7S. 6d. each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
The Poets' Birds.
The Poets' Beasts.
The Poets and Nature: Reptiles,
Fishes, and Insects. preparing.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Runciman (James), Stories by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmalgn's Sweetheart
Schools and Scholars.



Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Round the Galley-Fire.
In the Middle Watch.
A Voyage to the Cape.
A Book for the Hammock.

On the Fo'k'sle Head. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Mystery of the "Ocean Star,"
&c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (i688 to 1847). Edited
byHENRYSANSON. Cr.8vo,cl.ex. 3s 6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

Guy Waterman. I Lion In the Path.

The Two Dreamers.

One Against the World. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The High Mills.

Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.

Joan Merryweather. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Gideon's Rock. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Science-Gossip for 1889: An

Illustrated Medium of Interchange
for Students and Lovers of Nature.
Edited by Dr. J. Taylor, F.L.S.,&c,
Devoted to Geology, Botany, Physiology,
Chemistry, Zoology, Microscopy,
Telescope, Physiography, &c.
Price 4d. Monthly ; or 5s. per year,
post free. Vols. I . to XIX. may be
had at 7s. 6d. each ; and Vols. XX. to
date, at 6s. each. Cases for Binding,
Is. 6d, each.

Seguin (L. G.), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
The. Country of the Passion Play,

and the Highlands and Highlanders
of Bavaria. With Map and 37 lists.
Walks In Algiers and its Surroundings.
With 2 Maps and 16 Illusts,

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Cr. 8vo, cl.ex., Illusts., 4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations;
with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W.H.Cremer. sooIUusts.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades By Frank Belleww.
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic,
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior. — By Stream and Sea.

By Senior. Post Svo,cl.limp, 2s.6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H, Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare: *

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623.— A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small Svo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt. 6s.

Sharp. — Children of tomorrow:
A Novel. By William Sharp.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Sheridan(General). — Personal

Memoirs of General P. H. Sheridan :

The Romantic Career of a Great
Soldier, told in his Own Words. With
22 Portraits and other Illustrations, 27
Maps and numerous Facsimiles of
Famous Letters. Two Vols, of 500
pages each, delay Svo, cloth extra, 24s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Shelley.— The Completeness

In Verse and Prose of Percy Bessie
Shelley. Edited, Prefaced and Annotated
by R. Herne Shepherd. Five
Vols., cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 3s. 6(1. each.

Poetical Works, in Three Vols.
Vol. I. An Introduction by the Editor; The
Posthumous Fragments of Margaret Nicholson;
Shelley's Correspondence with Stockdale
; The Wandering Jew (the only complete
version) ; Queen Mab, with the Notes ;
Plaster, and other Poems : Rosalind and
Helen ; Prometheus Unbound ; Adonis, &c.
Vol. II. Lion and Cythna (as originally published,
instead of the emasculated " Revolt
of Islam") ; The Cenci ; Julian and Madda'o
(from Shelley's manuscript) ; Swellfoot the
Tyrant (from the copy in the Dice Library
at South Kensington); The Witch of Atlas ; I
Epipsychidion; Hellas.
Vol. III. Posthumous Poems, published by
.Mrs. Shelley in 1824 and 1839 ; The Masque
of Anarchy (from Shelley's manuscript) ; and
other Pieces not brought together in the ordi- I
nary editions.

Prose Works, in Two Vols.

Vol. I. The Two Romances of Zastrozzi and St.
Irvine ; the Dublin and Marlow Pamphlets ; A
Refutation of Deism ; Letters to Lehigh Hunt,
and some Minor Writings and Fragments.

Vol. H. The Essays; Letters from Abroad;
Translations and Fragments, Edited by Mrs.
Shelley, and first published in 1840, with
the addition of some Minor Pieces of great
interest and rarity, including one recently
discovered by Professor Bowden. With a
Bibliography of Shelley and an exhaustive
Index of the Prose Works.

Sheridan:—

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and 10 full-page lusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c., by the Rev.
A. B. Groat, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 18s.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotel. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (George R.), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.
Mary Jane's Memoirs.
Mary Jane Married.
Tales of Today. shortly,

The Baronet Reciter and Reader:

Being Readings and Recitations in

Prose and Verse, selected trim his

own Works by G. R. Sims. Post

Svo, portrait cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Sister Dora : A Biography. By
Margaret Lonsdale. Popular Edition,
Revised, with additional Chapter,
a New Dedication and Preface,
and Four Illustrations. Sq. Svo, picts
re cover, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Sketch ley.— A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
Svo^iOustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The : Etymological,

Historical, and Anecdotal.
Cr own Svo, c loth extra, gilt, 63. 6d.

Smith (J. Moor), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small Svo,
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. Svo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch,
With Illustrations. Small Svo, 6s.

Society in Paris: The Upper

Ten Thousand. By Count PaulVasili.
Trans, by Raphael Ledos de Beaufort.
Cr, Svo, cl. ex., 6s. preparing,

Somerset.— Songs of Adieu.

By Lord Henry Somerset. Small
4to, Japanese parch ment, 6s.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:

The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Wife or No Wife? Cr. Svo, picture
cover. Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

A Barren Title. Crown Svo, cl., Is. 6d.

The Golden Hoop. Post Svo, illust,
boards, 2s.

By Devious V/ays; and A Barren
Title. Post Svo, illust. boards, 23.



Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. By T.
A. Spalding. LL.B. Cr. 8vo,cl. ex., 5s .

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cl both gilt, 63.

Staunton. — Laws and Practice

of Chess. With an Analysis of the
Openings. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. Wcrmald.
Small crow n 8vo, clo th extra, 53.

Stedmarr(E. C), Works byT

Victorian Poets. Thirteenth Edition.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 93.
Time Poets of America. Crown 8vo,
cloth ex tra, 9s.

S terndale.—Tlie Afghan Knife

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. fid.; post
bvo, illustrated boards, 2g.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Sixth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. Third Edition.

With Frontispiece by W. Crane.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

3rd Edit. Cr. 8vo, buckram extra, 6s.
New Arabian Nights. Tenth Edition.

Crown 8vo, buckram extra, 6s. ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s^
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Crown Bvo, buckram

Extra, 6s. Cheap Edition, post 8vo,

picture cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Prince Otto: A Romance. Sixth

Edition. Crown 8vo, buckram extra,

6s. ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Merry Men. Second Edition.

Crown 8vo, buckram extra, 6s.
Underwood: Poems. Fourth Edit.

Crown 8vo, buckram extra, 6s.
Memories and Portraits. Second

Edition. Cr. 8vo, buckram extra, 63.
Virginius Puisque, and other

Papers. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo,

buckram extra, 6s.

St. John. — A Levantine Family

By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards^2s.

Stoddard. — Summer Cruising
in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Stories from Foreign Novel

its. With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer.
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
e:5tra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23,

Strange Manuscript (A) found

in a Copper Cylinder. With 19 full-page
Illustrations by Gilbert Gaul.
Third Edition. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 5s .

Strange Secrets. Told by

Percy Fitzgerald, Florence Marryat,
James Grant, A. Conan Doyle,
Button Cook, and others. With 8
Illustrations by Sir John Gilbert,
William Small, W. J. Hennessy,
&c. Cro wn 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

St rutt's~S ports and PSLstimea

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c.,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by Wm.H one. Cr. 8vo. cl. e extra, 73.6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London: A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations,
j With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo.cl.ex., 7s 6d .

Swift s Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. Bvo, clo t h extra, 7s . 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
Selections from the Poetical Works

of Algerian Charles Swinburne.

Cap. 8vo, cloth extra, 63.
Atlantic Corydon. Crown 8vo, 68.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 7s
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Cr. 8vo, 9s. Cap. 8vo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Cr. 8vo, 9s. Cap. 8vo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Third Series.

Crown 8vo, 7s.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,l8.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. 8vo, 10s 6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.8vo,12s 6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. (See

Vol. II. of Geo. Chapman's Works.)

Crown 8vo, 6s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.8vo,6s.
studies in Song. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. Bvo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 9s.
Century of Roundels. Small 4to, 88
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Marino Falter: Tragedy. Cr.8vo,6a.
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Miscellanies. Crown 8vo, 128.
doctrine ; A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, ^.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Symonds.— Wine, Women, and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs, Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small 8vo, parch ment, 63.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J, C.
Hotel. M ed. 8vo, clot h ext ra, 7s. 6d.

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun, Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos.— Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 153.

Taylor (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Posts, cl. limp, 2s.

Taylor (DrTJ.E., F.LS.jywbr k s

by. Crown 8vo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants: A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and loo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them: A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Illustrations.

The Playtime Naturalist. With 366
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*^* The Plays may also be had separate
y, at Is. eac h.

Tennyson (Lord": biographical
Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
8vo, cloth^extra, 6s.

Thackerayana: Notes an-d Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds oi
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
F montis pie ce. Cr. 8vo , cl. ex tra, 7s . 6d.

Thames.— A New PictorTaMHTs-

tory of the Thames, from its Source
Downwards. A Book for all Boating
Men and for all Lovers of the River.
With over 300 Illusts. Post 8vo, picture
co£, lS. ; cloth, Is. 6d. jPrep bring.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud MaisiQ.

The Violin Player.

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 line Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt e does, 73. 6d.

Thorn bury waiter works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairport, F.S.A.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Old Stories Re-told.
Tales for the Marines.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men ot
Letters, & c. With near ly 50 Illusts

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d each
post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Clarion Fay.

Vir. Scarborough's Family.

The Land Leaguers.
Post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s, each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | American Senator*

Trollope(FrancesE.),Novelsby

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

M ab el's Pr ogress. ! An ne Furness.

Trollope (T. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post Bvo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Trowbridge. — Parnell's Folly:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post

gvo, illustrated boards, 2g. .,. ' '.,



TuPgeniefT. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated b yards, 23.

Tatler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Titter (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass. | Noblesse Oblige.
Saint Mungo's City. | Lady Bell.
Beauty and the Beast.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.

Buried Diamonds.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Disappeared.

The Huguenot Family

The Blackball Ghosts: A Novel.
Crown Svo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each.

Villari. — ^A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Cap.
Svo, picture e cover, Is.

Walford (Edw., M.A.),Works by :

Tbe County Families of the United
Kingdom (1 889). Containing Notices
of the Descent, Birth, Marriage,
Education, &c., of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Families,
their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have
held, their Town and Country Addresses,
Clubs, &c. Twenty-ninth
Annual Edition. Cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1889). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth, Is.

The Shilling Baronetage (1889).
Containing an Alphabetical List ot
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

The Shilling Knightage (1889). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1889). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth. Is.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1889). In One Volume,
royal 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 53.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, continued—'
Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairport, F.S.A. Crown
Svo, cloth extra. 7s . 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's
Recreation; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
cro wn Svo, c loth antique, 7s . 6d.

Wait Whitman, Poems by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckra m, 6 s.

Wanderers Library, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, T\.frica, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

IVIerrie England in the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jacl<. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ;
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Park*.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Wanderer's Library, The, continued —
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Seven Generations of Executioners:

Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688

to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.
Summer Cruising In the South

Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.

Illustrated by Wal lis Mac kay

Warner. — A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, Sec. :—
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.
Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.
Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
ot the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.
The Roil of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors v.ho came
Over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold

an d Colours. Price e 5s.

Wayfarer, The : Journal of the
Society of Cyclists, Published at intervals.
Price Is. The Numbers for
Oct 1886, Jan., May, and Oct., 1887,
and Feb., 1888, arejiow ready.

Weathers How to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo. Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain ; or, History ot
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List 01
Marks. Crown 8vo. cloth limp, 4s. bd. j

Whist. — How to Play Solo |

Whist: Its Method and Principles |
Explained, and its Practice Demonstrated.
With Illustrative Specimen
Hands in red and black, and a Revised
and Augmented Code of Laws. By
Abraham S. Wiles and Charles F.
Pardon. Crown 8vo, c loth ex tra, 3s. Gd.

W h i stler^'slMr.) "Ten o' C I rock . ' '

Crown 8vo, hand-made and brown
paper, Is.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :
Science In Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

Bvo, cloth limp, with lusts., 23. 6d.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8v o, cloth extra, Gs.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.Rrs.E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of Darwinian and Allied
Theories of Development. 3rd ed.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., with 259 Illusts., 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. Bvo, cl. ex., with Illusts., 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Il-lusts.
Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cl. him p. Is. 6d.

Winter (J. S.j.'Stories by

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends .

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 5^^

Wood. — Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Poor. Post 8vo. illust. bds ., 23.

Wood~(H.F.), Detective Stories:

The Passenger from Scotland Yard.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.; postSvo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
The Englishman of the Rue Cain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Wool ley. — Rachel Armstrong;

or. Love and Theology. By Celia
Parker Woolley. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards. 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and

Out-ol-the-Way Matters. By Believer

Edwards. New and cheaper issue,

cr. 8vo,cl. ex.,7s . 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Wright (Thomas), \/Vorks by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illus acted by F. W. Fairholt.F.S.A .

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s, each.
Land at Last. | The Forlorn Hope.



NEW NOVELS.

Blood-money, and other Stories. By
Charles Gibbon. 2 Vols., crown
8vo, cloth, 12s.

A Strange Manuscript found in a
Copper Cylinder, Illustrated byGiL-
BERT Gaul. Third Edit. Qr. 8vo, 5s.

The Legacy of Cain. By Wilkie
Collins. 3 Vols., cr. 8vo.

For Faith and Freedom. By Walter
Besant. 3 Vols., cr. Bvo.

The Englishman of the Rue Cain.
By H. F. Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Romances of the Law. By R. E.
Francillon. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Strange Secrets. Told by Percy Fitzgerald,
&c. With 8 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

THE PICCAD

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown 8vo, cloth
BY THE A Author OF "JOHN
HERRING."
Red Spider. | Eve.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Philistia.

For Maimie' Sake.
The Devil's Die,

BY WALTER BESANT & J. RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Lucraft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster. Uncle Jack.
Children of Gibeon.
The World Went Very Well Then.
Herr Paulus.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.

Annann Water. I The Nev Abelard
Matt. 1 Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.
The Heir of Line.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
A Son of Hagar. | The Deemster.

Doctor Rameau. By Georges Ohnet.

Nine Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
This Mortal Coil. By Grant Allen.

3 Vols., crown 8vo.
Agatha Page. By Isaac Henderson.

2 Vols., crown 8vo.
Chance ? or Fate ? By Alice O'Han-

LON. 3 vols., crown Bvo.
Children of Tomorrow. By William

Sharp. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Nikanor. From the French ot Henri

Greville. With Eight Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Mr. Stranger's Sealed Packet. By

Hugh Macula. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 5s.
Guilders. By Ouida. 3 Vols., crown
8 vos .[2««i-

ILLY NOVELS.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. ; Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar. •
The Village Comedy,
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter*
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No."
Little Novels.
The Evil Genius.

I Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?
New Magdalen.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist ; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS,
Felicia.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards
Archie Lovell.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Fatal Zero.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY R. E. Francisco.

Queen Cophetuau

One by One.

A Real Queen.

King or Knave ?
Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.

Pandurang Hard.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.

The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Robin Gray.

What will the World Say?

In Honour Bound.

Queen of the Meadow.

The Flower of the Forest.

A Heart's Problem.

The Braes of Yarrow.

The Golden Shaft.

Of High Degree.

Loving a Dream.

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN Hawthorne.

Garth.

Elllce Question.

Sebastian Stroke.

Dust.

Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.

David Poindexter's Disappearance

The Spectre of the Camera.
BY SIR A. HELPS.

Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT

Thornicroft's ^'oJel.

The Leaden Casket.

Self-condemned.

Thiit other Person.

BY JEAN Angelo.

Fated to be Free.

BY R. ASHE KING.

A Drawn Game.

"The Wearing of the Green."
BY HENRY Kingsley.

Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.

Patricia Kimball.

Atonement of Learn Duncan.

The World Well Lost.

Under which Lord ?

Ivy Love !"

lone.

Fasten Carew.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.

Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy.

The Waterdais Neighbours.

A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

IVIiss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camiola.

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! 1 Written in Fire

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. I Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father. | Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. LIP H ANT.
Whiteladies.

BY OUIDA.

Held in Bondage.

Strath more.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
Dog of Flanders
Pascal.
Signa. [fine.

Princess Naprax-

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

TwoLittleWoodcn

Shoes.
In a Winter Cit
Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrello.
A Village

mine.
Bimbi.
Wands.
Frescoes.
In Maremm
Othman.

Corn-lost

Sir massinger.


Walter's Word.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.

A Grape from a

Thorn.
Some Private

Views.
TheCanon'sWard.
Talk of the Town.
Glow-worm Tales.
In Peril and Privation.

Holiday Tasks.
The Mystery of
Mirbridge
BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. | Peg Wofflngton. :

Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt, | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation
The Wandering Heir. I Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Readiana.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other*
Animals.



Piccadilly Novels, continued

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Hep Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman. | Two Dreamers.
The Lion in the Path.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. IV. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Way we Live Now.

Frau Frohmann. 1 Marion Fay.

Kept in the Dark.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land-Leaguers.

BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Anne Furness. | Mabel's Progress.
BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
BY SARAH Tatler.

What She Came Through.

The Bride's Pass. | Saint Mungo's City.

Beauty and the Beast.

Noblesse Oblige.

Citoyenne Jacqueline.

Lady Bell. | Buried Diamonds.

The Blackball Ghosts.

BY C. C. FKASER-TYTLER.

Mistress Judith.

POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 2s. each.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE,
An Heiress of Red Dog. ,

The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.

Maruja. | A Phyllis of the Sierras.

BY HAROLD Bridges.
Uncle Sam at Home.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

CHEAP r Editions OF

I OS 8vo, illustrated
BYTHEAUTHOROF'^MEHALAH."
Red Spider.

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AWE.
Carr of Carrion. | Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow?
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN,
strange Stories.
Philistia.
Babylon.
In ail Shades.
The Beckoning Hand.
For Maimie's Sake.

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

By WALTER BESANT & J. RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Lucraft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.

All in a Garden Fair. Antonina.

Dorothy Forster. Basil.

Uncle Jack. \ Hide and Seek.

Children of Gibeon. ] The Dead Secret.

The World Went Very Well Then. | Queen of Hearts.

The Martyrdom

of Madeline.
Annann Water.
The New Abelard.
Matt.
TheHeirof Line.

The Shadow of

the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
Love Me for Ever.
Foxglove Manor.
The Master of ths Mine

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Ci-ime.
A Son of Hagar. | The Deemster.
BY COMMANDER CAMERON.
The Cruise of the " Black Prince."
BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. [Juliet's Guardian.

BY M ACL A REN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS,
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

WiLKiE Collins, continued.
Miss OP Mrs.P | The Fallen Leaves.
New Magdalen. Jezebel'sDaughter
The Frozen Deep. The Black Robe.
The Law and the Heart and Science

Lady. " I Say No."

TheTwo Destinies The Evil Genius.
Haunted Hotel. 1 Little Novels.
BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Pray me False.

BY M. J. COLQUHOUN.
Every Inch a Soldier.

BY Concur D. CONWAY.
Pine and Palm.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky
Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAVDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. \ Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. j Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY DICK DONOVAN.
The Man-Hunter.
Caught at Last !

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Point of Honour. I Archie Lovell.
BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.

^°^^BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tiilotson.
Polly. I Fatal piero.

Seventy five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. I A Real Queen.

BY HAROLD FREDERIC.
Seth's Brother's Wife.
Prefaced by Sir H. Battle Free.
Pandurang Hard.

BY Pain FRISWELL.
One of 

EDWARD GARRETT,
The Cape! Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—'

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. i The Flower of the

For Lack of Gold. Forest.
What will the i Braes of Yarrow.
World Say? The Golden Shaft.

Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.
Mead and Stream.
Loving a Dream.
A Hard Knot.
Heart's Delight.

In Honour Bound.
In Love and War.
For the King.
In Pastures Green
Queen of the Meadow.

A Heart's Problem

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests. | James Duke
The Wizard of the Mountain.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY JOHN HABBERTON.
Breton's Bayou. | Country Luck.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY
Every-Day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

ElliceQuentin. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
MissCadogna. | Love— or a Name.
David Poindexter's Disappearance.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER.
The House of Ray.

BY Tight HOPKINS.
'Twixt Love and Duty.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self Condemned. | That other Person

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY,
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW,
Colonial Facts and Fictions.
BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle

BY JOHN Less.
The Lindsay.

BY MARY LINSKILL.
In Exchange for a Soul.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Duncan

t^

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

E. Lynn Linton, continued —
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P | Pastor Carew
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Loci" I lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY,
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy.

Dear LadyDisdain MissMisanthrope
The Watergate Donna Quixote.

Neighbours. The Comet of a

My Enemy's Season.

Daughter. Maid of Athens.

A Fair Saxon. Camiola.

LInley Rochford.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY IV. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open! Sesame. I Fighting the Air.
A Harvest of Wild Written in Fire.
Oats. I

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.

BY BRA Under MA The WS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN MI DOLE MASS.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Pillion.

BY MRS. Wordsworth.
Hathercourt Rectory.

BY J. E. Haddock.
Stories Weird and Wonderful.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
ALIfe'sAtonement | Hearts.
A Model Father. Way of the World.
Joseph's Coat. A Bit of Human

Coals of Fire. Nature.

By the Gate of the First Person Sin-val
Strange [Sea. guitar.
Old Blazer's Hero. Cynic Fortune.

BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladles. | The Primrose Path.
The Greatest Heiress in England.
BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY QUID A.
Held In Bondage. , TwoLittleWooden
Stratford. j Shoes.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-male's

Gage.
Tricotrln. | Puck.
Folle Farley
Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
SIgna. [Fine.

Princess Naprax-
In a Winter City

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi. | Wands.

Frescoes.

In Maremma.

Othman.

Wisdom, Wit, and
Pathos.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massing Marine Residence.

herd. Married Beneath

APerfectTreasure Him.
Bentinck's Tutor. Mirk Abbey.
Murphy's Master. Not Wooed, but
A County Family. Won";
At Her Mercy. Less Black than

A Woman's Venn We're Painted.

glance. By Proxy.

Cecil's Tryst. Under One Roof.

Clyffards of ClyfTe High Spirits.
The Family Scape Carlton's Year.

grace. A Confidential

Foster Brothers. Agent.

Found Dead. Some Private

Best of Husbands. Views.
Walter's Word. From Exile.

Halves. A Grape from a

Fallen Fortunes. Thorn.

What He Cost Her For Cash Only.
HumorousStories Kit: A Memory.
Gwendolen's Har The Canon's Ward

vest. Talk of the Town.

£200 Reward. Holiday Tasks.

Like Father, Like Glow-worm Tales.

Son.

BY C. L. PIRKIS,
Lady Lovelace.

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina. | The Foreigners

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend,
hc.rj Cash. | Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. I A Woman-hater.

Readiana. | The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
Good Stories of Men and other

Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories. | Fairy Water.
The Uninhabited House.
The Mystery In Palace Gardens.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY JAMES RU NCI MAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

BY IF. CLARK RUSSELL
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sfe Head. ^

In the Middle Watch. f*

A Voyage to the Cape.
A Book for the Hammock.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.

BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman. | Two Dreamers.
The Lion in the Path.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan iVlerryweather. | The High Mills.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Heart Salvage. I Sebastian.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring' Bells. | Mary Jane Married.
Mary Jane's Memoirs.
Tales of To day.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.
TheGolden Hoop. 1 By Devious Ways.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife,

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights. | Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Aisle.

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
Old Stories Re-told.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPS.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.l John Candidate
The Golden Lion of Grantee.

By F. ELEANOR TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness. I Mabel's Progress.

BY Jet. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer. | A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued-^

Mark Twain, continued.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent
Huckleberry Finn. [of Europe

Life on the Mississippi.
The Prince and the Pauper.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Passed Buried Diamonds
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Lady Bell. | Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline I Disappeared
The Huguenot Family.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends

BY H. F. WOOD.
The Passenger from Scotland Yard.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY CELIA PARKER WOOLLEY.
Rachel Armstrong; or.Love&Theology.
BY EDMUND YATES.
The Forlorn Hope | Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte. [Ditto.

The Twins o« Table Mountain. By
A Day's Tour. By Percy Fitzgerald.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne,
A Dream and a Forgetting. By ditto.
A Romance of the Queen's Hounds

Charles James. [Burnet.

Kathleen Mavourneen. By Mrs.
Lindsay's Luck. By Mrs. Burnett.
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Ditto.
Trooping with Crows. ByC.L, Pirkis
The Professor's Wife. By Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon.
The Garden that Paid the Rent

By Tom Ferrol.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.
Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps
Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S. Phelps,
Burglars in Paradise. ByE. Phelps.
Jack the Fisherman. ByE. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode, By

Justin H. McCarthy, M.P,
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Austin H. McCarthy, M.P.
Dolly. By ditto. [worth.

That Girl in Black. By Mrs. Moles-vas
She Good or Bad ? ByW.MiNTO.
Bible Characters. By Chas. Reade.
The Magnet Reciter. By G.R.Sims.
Wife or No Wife ? By T. W. Speight.
The Silvered Squatters. By R»
Louis Stevenson.

I. OGDEN AND CO, LIMITED, PRINTERS, GREAT SAFFRON HILL, Eg.

ipsa



2=5.

j\<S)l

T7^^

'V.

mim

'-t

rV,-

'. ^t

'-U

&■«:■■

4'

/^'

->

^'

f'»t"*^

II.

BY

Ordain

THREE VOLUMES
VOL II.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



Ita right of translation is reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-S i Rest SQUARE

LONDON

Guilders.

CHAPTER XX.

The only person, besides her father, who saw
her wholly at her best, and quite as she was,
was Aubrey. In great receptions, in large
house parties, in all the crowd and movement
of fashionable life, she was always glad
to see him come to her side, and to feel the
shield of his kindly friendship placed between
her and the impertinences of fine ladies and Ie
embarrassing homage of men, who, seeing that
she was neglected, made sure that she could be
consoled. He did much for her that Guilders
had never dreamed of doing, and would not
have had patience to do if he had. He gave
her many indications of all that she needed to
know in the bewildering mazes of fashion and
precedence. He got for her the good will
of many persons of power and influence. He
VOL. IL B

explained to her many tidings which astonished
and troubled her, and he made her London
receptions successful and distinguished. The
world obeyed any hint from him eagerly, and
all his social power, which was vast, he put out
on behalf of his cousin's wife.

Nothing would enrage and estrange Evelyn
so greatly as to find her a social failure,' he
thought very often, ' and yet he will not take
the trouble to stretch out his Httle finger to
prevent her being one.'

And what his cousin failed to do, Aubrey
did.

It is a little like Achilles spinning for me to
interfere in these tidings,' he said with a smile,
as he corrected her invitation list, explained to
her questions of precedence, and told her why
one duchess was a great sovereign revered by
all society, and another duchess was a mere
dowdy whose word nobody attended to or
asked. All these things were trifles which
were wholly insignificant in his sight, occupied
as he was with the great cares of public life ;
but from his birth and position he was familiar
with them ; he knew their power to make or
mar a woman's entry into the great world,

and he had power to control all their mysterious
influences ; and all that it was necessary for her
to know and avoid, she learned from him.

Evelyn should do all this for you,' he said
to her once. But his cousin did not, tmd never
would have done, so Aubrey did it for him.

He knew that Guilders would never
pardon a woman who bore his name if she
did not attain eminence in society. Guilders
imagined that he attached no value to social
opinion, and weighed nothing in its scales.
But he deceived himself in that as in many
another estimate of his feelings, and unless the
purest silver had possessed the hall mark he
would never have rated it as silver.

You are very kind to Gladys,' he said to
this cousin once or twice, but he was never
aware of all that he owed to Aubrey ; and
that if his wife received princes and princesses
with a perfect manner, if she filled her houses
with the best and only the best people, if she
never made an error in the date of a title, ora
mistake in the smaller intricacies of etiquette
and precedence, it was due entirely to the man
who sometimes, for the first time in his life, was
late at a Cabinet Council, or tardy in speaking

b2

before a division, because he had been giving
lessons in social policy to John Vernon's
daughter.

These are all very little things, both
you and I consider,' said Aubrey to her.
Yes, they are indeed the absurdest of trifles,
and it is perhaps wonderful that a society
on the brink of disintegration, as English
society is, should still make so much of
them. But it is just the knowledge of them,
or the ignorance of them, which marks a
woman of the world from a parvenue. Guilders
wishes you to be a woman of the world,
so omit nothing which is necessary to the education
of the world. Besides, I confess that
social etiquette has a certain value, if only in
the maintenance of some standard for manners
; I wish in some things that we had more
of it ; I wish it were not possible for an
American adventuress to entertain the Prince
of Wales, or for an English brewer to be hoisted
into the House of Lords because he has made
money by brewing, and been useful in elections.
I know this latter possibility has been called
the strength of England ; but it has, on the
contrary, been and is her very greatest weakness.

For it has made social life a hotbed for
aspiring toadyism, has made political life a
manure heap for the propagation of mushroom
nobility, and has enabled a minister to force
measures on the country which the country
disapproves, because he can bribe his supporters
by the whispered promise of peerage.
If new peers must be made, it would be better
to call up all the Victoria Cross men to the
Upper House than to make nobility ridiculous
by conferring it on tradesmen. The Victoria
Cross men would at least allow of some sort
of analogy to the old reasons for knighthood.'

Gladys always listened and followed him
with sincere interest when he spoke of these
things. Her father had been used to converse
with her at times on serious and public
matters, and all the problems of government
and history possessed much more interest
for her than the fashionable frivolities of the
hour.

It will be time to think of politics twenty
years hence,' said Guilders to her, but she
thought of them already, and often went to
the Speaker's gallery to hear Aubrey.

He spoke well ; not with any great

brilliancy of rhetoric, but with admirable
lucidity and logic, great force of persuasion,
great power of invective held in calm reserve,
and that tone of perfect courtesy and scholarship
which have been, until the last dozen
years, the distinguishing glory of the House of
Commons.

Why do you never speak ? ' she asked
once of Guilders, who answered impatiently :

It is of no use to speak in the Lords.
Besides, I have never spoken. If I were to rise
now they would think I had gone mad. It is
of no kind of use to enter political life unless
one has been trained by having passed one's
early years in the Commons. I could never
have had that parliamentary education. I succeeded
my father when I was a child of five
years old.'

But you have great talents, they all say ?
My father says so, too ! '

I am not sure that I have any. The world
and your father are too complimentary to me.
But I have at all events the common sense
not to spoil my whole life by efforts for which
I am wholly unfitted, and which would be
assuredly wholly unprofitable.'

Aubrey's are not unprofitable ? '

I should not venture to say they were,
but I am quite sure he is not such a blind
optimist as to be satisfied with their results.
Parliamentary government is the best machine
that was ever constructed for grinding down
superiority into mediocrity ; that is why it is
so immensely popular with the middle classes.'

'But if you believe in an oligarchy, you
might at least support that if you were conspicuous
in public life ? '

'I never said I believed in it, my dear.
All I am entirely convinced of is that the
power of no man, whether Aubrey or another,
will check permanently the gradual breaking
up of England, which is being brought about
by the inevitable decadence into which all
nations fall.'

I do not like to think it.'

No one likes it ; but our liking or our disliking
will not alter the philosophy of history.'

But do you not feel that our own lives
lead to it ? Do you not see that society is so
foolish, so extravagant, so selfish, so crowded,
that it must make those outside of it despise
it even while they envy it? You have said

yourself that there is neither elegance nor
dignity in it, only an immense expenditure,
and a feverish hurry. You have said yourself
that instead of Maecenas we have a nobility
which sends its libraries and its picture galleries
to the auction-room ; which, rather than give
up its racing and betting, its foreign baths and
its London excesses, will see its old houses
stripped, or its woods felled, or its collections
bought by the Jews. I have heard you say
that, or similar things, a thousand times.'

Certainly, my dear ; and does any Cuyp
out of Ladysrood, any Gainsborough out of this
house, go to Christie's through me ? I have
never cut a stick of timber which it was not
absolutely needful to cut for the health and the
growth of the woods themselves. Alien I have
been pressed for money, which has happened,
though my income is large, I have never sold
my family Holbein nor my ancestral oaks. I
have a very strong sense that noblesse oblige
though I have not, I admit, the virtues of my
cousin Aubrey.'

He spoke with some irritation, and for the
first time a vague sense of annoyance, at the
opinion she had of Aubrey, stated in him.

He and I,' he continued, ' have always
been the industrious and the idle apprentices
in the eyes of our families. He early chose
Athens and I Venus. But though I grant he
has the monopoly of the virtues, yet I have an
ounce of conscience left I assure you, and all
that I have inherited will pass out of my
hands as it came into them, intact to your
children.'

Lie resigned the argument ; lie could not
press on him the fact that his life was utterly
self-indulgent, however free it might be from
the avarice or the indignity which allowed
others to send their household goods to the
market.

Who has filled your head with these fancies
of utility ? ' he said, irritably. ' Your ftitlier or
my cousin ? What a singular thing it is that
when nine hundred and ninety-nine women out
of a thousand only ask to enjoy themselves,
I should have married the one in a thousand
who knows nothing of enjoyment ! '

And he left her with some impatience.
She could neither persuade nor allure him,
because she possessed no influence upon him.

She will be all her life that most depressing

thing, a conscientious woman ! ' lie
tlionglit with a smile and a sigh as he drove
to his favourite club. 'If she had married
Aubrey she would have been a million times
happier, and I '

What would he have done ? Would he
have remained at the feet of the only woman
whom he had ever loved with any love approaching
a strong passion ? He was not sure ;
but what we might have done almost always
looks to us so much fairer than what we have
done.

He did full justice to his wife's mind and
character ; he even in theory admired them,
but in actual fact he was only bored by them.
She had not known how to interest and divert
him ; she was transparently truthful, full of
high ideals and high thoughts, and possessed
with the terrible earnestness of youth ; but she
only wearied him, and a woman far her inferior,
morally and mentally, would have had
far more power to move him when she wished
if she had only had more pliability and more
gaiety of temperament. He required to be
amused as a petulant and spoilt child requires
it. There were always countless women ready

to do it ; lie went to them and left Aubrey to
bring blue books and explain international law
to this wife.

'It is his metier \ ' he said with some contempt.
He did not perceive, because he did
not study her enough to see it, that what prevented
her from having such enjoyment of life
as would have been in accordance with her
nature and her age was the sense, perpetually
weighing on her, that he regretted his hasty
marriage.

She felt that she was a burden on him ; and
though she never said it, its consciousness was
ever present with her.

The existence of incessant change which
she perpetually led gave her rather sadness
and bewilderment than pleasure. The few
months they remained in the London house,
the few weeks spent at Ladysrood, the changes
from Paris to Venice, to Cannes, to Aix, to
Baden, according to the season of the year
and the moods of fashion, gave her a sense of
homelessness and restlessness which were not
suited to her temperament. Life did not seem
to her spent aright in this mere succession of
display and distraction, this indolent and self-indulgent

pursuit of the appetites and senses. She
was afraid of seeming ' odd ' in her world ; for
he told her that people were so soon considered
so, and always detested as a consequence. She
did her best to endeavour to seem amused at
this perpetual carnival ; but she could not bring
herself to feel so. Her early education had left
too indelible a stamp of simplicity and gravity
upon her for her to easily adopt the tone of
those around her. Sometimes Guilders saw,
or thought he saw, a look of disdain for his
pursuits and pastimes come upon her features,
and it angered him extremely. He thought ita
censure of himself.

My sister's frown was quite enough in the
family,' he said once petulantly.

Did I frown ? ' said Gladys, very sorrowfully.
' I did not know it. Indeed I am very
sorry.'

You frown very often,' he said angrily.
Perhaps you do not know it. It is an ugly
habit, and makes people think you a prude.'

I see a great deal in society that I do not
like,' she said, a little coldly.

And pray, my dear, did it never occur to
you that neither age nor experience have as yet

qualified you to act as duenna to a naughty
world ? '

She coloured at the ridicule in his accent.

About some things I am sure I am right,'
she said in a low tone, which sounded to him
like obstinacy. ' One wants no duenna to know
that there are some things which are — which
offend one — one feels them.'

You feel them because your heart is always
behind your beehives and sweetbread at
Christslea, and you think every one should talk
like your father, with equal parts of St. Augustine
and Horace. You are a country mouse at
heart, and are always sighing for the hayricks.
How I do wish you were not ! It makes the
women detest you and laugh at you ; and it
does not suit your style at all. You-look a
great lady, not a Phyllis or Amaryllis.'

They may laugh if they please,' she said,
with the look on her face with which she had
once said that the Cherriton lads might burn
the hut down if they pleased.

But that is just wdiat they must not do,'
said Guilders, considerably irritated. ' Nothing
offends or annoys me more ; nothing
is so odious as the ridicule by women of a

woman. She never recovers it. It is much
less injurious to her to be calumniated than to
be laughed at. The greatest beauty cannot
stand it.'

It is wholly indifferent to me ! '
But it is not to me,' said Guilders. ' Le
ridicule tue. It kills grace, it kills charm, it
kills popularity. It would afflict me immeasurably
if for want of a little flexibility
you were considered a precisian in the world.
It is Hilda's style, I am aware, but it is a most
uncomfortable style, most depressing in its
effect upon others, and not at all the style
of our day.

Une societe gangrene! Oh, we know all
that ; it has been said admirably by Balzac, and
more or less since by all his imitators,' continued
Guilders, impatiently. ' It is really not necessary,
my love, that you should either preach or
philosophise about it. There are always numbers
of writers and wits who make their livelihood
by repeating all that kind of thing as well
as it can be said ; and I am myself convinced
that no amount of condemnation will ever alter
matters by a hand's breadth — not even condemnation
so weighty and so terrible as yours ! '

She coloured, mortified by the words and
by their tone. She felt that in his eyes she was
always the same country child who had first
opened the little wicket for him under the
boughs at Christslea. She had grown a century
older in her own feelings ; she was greatly
changed in the eyes of all others ; but in his
sight she was always the same young and unworldly
rustic, who had known no society
beyond that of the fisher folk on the shore
and the wild creatures of the moorlands and
orchards.

He had no patience to discuss her opinions ;
he could not see why she should have any.
This disdainful delegation of her to an utterly
inferior place in intelligence, in its strong contrast
with the reverential sympathy of Aubrey,
gave her a passionate sense of offence, which
was too deep to be easily expressed.

He thinks me a fool,* she felt bitterly ; and
she knew that she was not one, that she could
have met him on equal ground if he had deigned
to so encounter her.

She was silent.

English society,' he continued, ' has undergone
the most radical revolution in its tone

and temper as well as in its politics ; it has
put seven-leagued boots on in the ways of demoralisation
as well as democracy. It is much
more than fast, it is constantly outrageous.
We have always been a very profligate nation,
though we have professed great chastity ; and
in this generation the impudent people are
uppermost, and they have moulded a society to
their liking, and every one who is not of it is
nowhere.'

Do you desire that I should be of it? '

Of course not, my dear child. Why will
you suggest absurdities ? You do not wait to
hear ray conclusion. I was about to say that
modern society, being no longer high-bred,
but only " smart," no longer distinguished, but
only rich, as immoral as it can possibly be,
and having even ceased to be able to tell a
gentlewoman from a caroline when it sees
one, good manners are altogether thrown away
upon it, and it only laughs at them.'

Its laughter must be less degrading than
its praise ! '

That is the sort of thing which you are
always saying and for which they detest you.
I am not estimating its praise. I am wholly

indifferent to it. But I assure you that your
scornful dignity and your delicate susceptibilities
are as out of place in it as the silver
ewer that the royal fugitives carried with them
on the road to Varennes.'

Silver vessels seemed natural to them, I
suppose.'

Yes ; and so the silver of seriousness and
high-breeding are natural to you. But it is the
people with the pitchforks and the false assignats
that are now blocking the roads of society
everywhere, and though you cannot help being
royal, you may as well smile when you can.'

He could not say to her what he really
wished to convey, that her lack of animation
and interest made women laugh at her, and
laugh at him because they believed her jealous
of his attentions to them ; and the unconscious
disapprobation often spoken in her eyes of the
society which most amused him was a constant
theme of raillery against him with his
female friends.

Material sorrows every one can understand,
though even these every one does not stay to
pity ; but the sorrows of the spirit, when combined
with material prosperity, hardly any one

VOL. II. c

has patience to contemplate. Cold, hunger,
and ill-health, all these wants and pains physical,
are easily comprehended even by the
unsympathetic ; but the cold of the soul which
is solitary, the hunger of the heart which
vaguely misses and vaguely desires what it has
never yet found, the ill-health of the spirit
which is weary and yet restless, which sits at
the banquets of the world without appetite,
and turns away from all which delights others,
cloyed and yet empty, this no one will ever
pity ; the multitude only calls it in a man
cynicism, and in a woman ennui. And yet
how far it is from being either one or the
other !

She was too young to know the charm of
toleration, the wisdom of indifference, the force
of an influence which is never urged but
merely suggested. Her character had been
constructed by her father's teachings on a
few broad lines ; the lines on which were
built the characters of a simpler, graver, calmer
day than ours, when women stayed at home
whether in palace or in cabin. It had strength,
truth, candour, honour, purity ; but, like
many such characters, it lacked pliancy, sympathy,

and comprehensiveness. It adhered to
its own few firm rules, and did not allow for,
because it did not in any measure perceive,
the caprices, the necessities, and the weaknesses
of others.

There is a fatal law which philosophers
might possibly trace out to some law of compensation,
which usually makes the woman of
perfect purity and candour incapable of that
charm of quickly comprehending and infinitely
pardoning which makes a woman most sweet
and most beloved.

c 2

CHAPTER XXI.

Aubrey's sister, the Duchess of Longleat, was
one of those who make la plume et le beau
temps in the great world for those she disapproved
or favoured. She had conceived at
first a violent dislike to Gladys because ' no
one knew her ' — darkest of all social crimes !
But Aubrey took infinite pains to reconcile
her, and to secure her kindness and support to
Guilders's wife.

Why should you care whether she is admired
or detested ? ' his sister asked him once ;
and he replied :

I care because I pity her infinitely ; she
is married to a man who will never pardon her
if she fails to succeed in his world, and who
yet w411 never take the trouble to point out to
her the way to succeed.'

It is a dangerous occupation to do it for
him,' said his sister. ' She is extremely handsome.*


Not dangerous to me,' said Aubrey with
a rather sad smile. ' You know I am hen
trempe.

To Evelyn to have his wife a mere country
nonentity,' he continued, 'a woman who makes
blunders and is quoted in ridicule because she
sends in the wrong people together, would be
infinitely more intolerable than to have her a
Medea or a Lady Macbeth. She knows nothing
of social matters. How should she ? She is a
child, and she has always lived in a cottage with
a recluse. But some one must teach them to
her. Hilda Sunbury ought, but she will not ;
virtuous woman though she is, she would be
delighted at everything which would separate
her brother from his wife. Evelyn will not
because he is too indolent, and he has moreover
no patience with people to whom these
things are not a second nature. There only
remain yourself or myself. We must undertake
her training in these things.'

I really do not see why,' said the Duchess.
Evelyn is an unconscionable egotist. He has
always been so ; he always will be. We are
not bound to remedy the omissions of his
selfishness.'

But she adored her brother, and to please
him threw over the new-comer the mighty
aegis of her approbation and protection. The
world always followed her Grace of Longleat
like sheep.

'The Duchess of Longleat thinks her perfect,'
was a phrase with which those who wished ill
to Gladys were easily silenced. Against the
opinion of that greatest of great ladies there
was no appeal.

Guilders meanwhile went on his own way,
not taking any notice of the means by which
his wife's social success was secured. He was
often absent in Paris, in Italy, at German
baths, or in Austrian country houses, and his
wife was quickly becoming not of much more
serious import to him than the chests of old
Stuart and Tudor plate locked up at Lady's
He prized the plate certainly, and would
have been indignant and humiliated if thieves
had broken in and stolen it. But it was
scarcely ever in his thoughts. He trusted its
safe keeping to that good fortune which had
attended him from his birth.

He had, by degrees, glided back into his old
habits, his old amusements, his old attentions

to women ; and he never looked intently or
fondly enough at her to become aware of a
certain look which was in her eyes when they
followed him which might have told him that
she was neither a child nor a saint, neither
impassive nor forgiving. He only thought her
of a cold temperament, and was glad.

She vaguely yet painfully felt that she had
been deceived by the grave and tender sentiments
which he had expressed so constantly
before marriage with her, and which were
now never heard of from him. He seemed
utterly to have forgotten all the poetic and
romantic views with which he had captivated
her childish imagination ; and she thought that
they had been entirely assumed to attract her.
She did him wrong. He had been quite sincere
in his moods of serious and ardent fancy when
he had been first under the charm of Christslea.
He had affected nothing ; he had been actually,
for the time being, the imaginative and serious
lover which he had seemed to be. He was a
man wholly surrendered to the influence of the
moment, and taking all his colour from it.

Very soon after his union with her, the
habitual influences of his life had begun to

reassume their force over him ; the poetry and
earnestness which had never been more than
momentary with him had ceded place in turn
to the instincts and modes of thought more
common to him. He had never been insincere,
although he appeared so to her. He had been
merely following the whims and emotions of
a season ; and when she ceased to have any
power over him, the kind of feelings which she
had temporarily aroused faded with the fading
of her charm. His sister had been wholly
correct in saying that his fancy for his wife had
only been in feeling an amourette like many
another, and it had no more enduring weight
with him. But in all this he was not false, although
he seemed to her to be so. He followed
his own varying moods, and if she became of
but slight account in his existence, it was
because he honestly forgot that she ought to
be of any.

But all these complications and vacillations
of character were too intricate for her to follow ;
and she only felt a continually growing sense
that she had been intentionally deceived by him
when he had wooed her with the graceful and
chivalrous kind of homage which had won her

'^k ^P"

young heart under the red autumn leaves of the
Christslea orchards. The world forever claimed
him ; and he went to its claims willingly.

He could not live without stimulant, distraction,
movement, excitement ; they were all
drugs indispensable to his existence ; and in
the fumes of them such an idol as had smiled at
him for a moment amongst the autumn flowers
of Christslea had no chance to retain its spell.
He had been quite sincere in it ; as sincere as
when he had assured her father that he sighed
for the nude and childlike soul of a virgin love.
He had not conscientiously played a part ;
because he had believed that the part was his
own whilst he had played it. But this was too
subtle for her comprehension ; she only saw
that the man who had wooed her did not exist
in the man who had wedded her.

In him as in many another man of intelligence
and imagination, the mingled fever and
conventionality of modern life had made both
imagination and intelligence mere occasional
factors in his thoughts and character ; frittered
away and hurried away by the ever-pressing
crowd of baser instincts and more material
interests and pleasures.

#' m

111 all the wishes and fancies for a more
poetic existence, and for more innocent affections,
which he had expressed to her, and to her
father, in the weeks preceding his marriage, he
had been his own dupe ; and had deluded himself
with a mirage of his own creating. The
mirage had faded ; but the obligations he had
taken on himself when under the charm of it
remained behind it.

Now and then, indeed, he felt with a pang
that he did not keep his promise to John
Vernon in either the spirit or the letter. ' Et
puer est, et nidus Amor,' he had said when
sitting under the porch at Christslea ; but the
divine nudity of the innocent soul had soon
seemed to him of little charm, and he had
wished it draped and veiled with those arts
which heighten what they hide. He knew, in
his own consciousness, that every word which
Vernon had predicted had been verified. He
had sought those who threw the sulphur on
the fading or on the rising flame. Often he
sought them in spheres far removed from the
knowledge or observation of his wife. But at
times the women who beguiled him were
amidst those of her own world.

There was a new star risen over London society
in the third year of his marriage. It was
a lady familiarly called by all her male friends
Olive Shiffton : a very pretty woman, with the
undulating form and the voluptuous grace of
an odalisque, combined with an impudence
which was almost heroic, and a success only
possible in the senility and sensuality of society
at the close of this century. Mrs. Shiffton
had come no one very well knew whence.
Her husband had a large Australian fortune,
and she herself was vaguely said to be 'a
lawyer's daughter,' which, as Lady Sunbury
observed, was satisfactory, no doubt, but
vague, comprising as it did everything whatever
from the Lord Chancellor down to the
lowest attorney of Smoke Street. Be she
what she would, she was lovely to look at,
had caught the eye and amused the ennui of
an exalted personage, and had, by audacity,
cringing, and cleverness, placed herself in the
highest rank of society. Some great ladies still
did not know her, indeed, but they were the
exception. Mrs. Percy Shiffton was really seen
everywhere.'

She laid siege to Guilders, and succeeded

in beguiling him. She amused him infinitely,
quite as much by what she was not as by what
she was. Her constant endeavour to persuade
herself and everybody that she had been born
in the purples was a perpetual comedy to him ;
whilst the great rarity of her peculiar loveliness,
which was that of a Creole rather than of an
Englishwoman, had a potent seduction for his
senses.

Do not even think of that odious woman ;
I do not even know her,' said the Duchess of
Longleat to Gladys ; but Gladys could not but
see the power possessed and exercised by this
person whom she met at every turn and in
every house except at that of Her Grace of
Longleat, at Balfrons, and at Islington. The
very exclusion of the lady from the houses
of his relatives served to suggest to her the
terms of intimacy existing between Guilders
and Ohve Shiffton.

It is only his way ; he is always flirting like
that ; it means nothing,' whispered the Duchess
to her once at a great ball at Grosvenor House,
where Guilders, half amused, half bored, was
sitting out four dances under the shadow of
tropical plants by the side of Ohve Shiffton.



Why do you not flirt too, you goose ?
That would bring him to his senses,' thought
the Duchess. But she had too much of the
good nature of the Balfrons blood to make the
suggestion, and she had great respect for the
self-control with which a woman so young as
Gladys succeeded in restraining all evidence of
suspicion or indignation.

It is not Ohve Shiffton that she need
care about,' said Lady Sunbury to her.
He Avill play with her a season — half a
season — nothing more. There are greater
dangers than that, if she only could understand
them.'

What do you mean ? ' asked the Duchess.

I mean that all these caprices do not
really matter. What does matter is the only
woman he has ever ready loved, or, to my
belief, will ever really love.'

Beatrice Soria? ' asked the Duchess. ' But
I thought that was all broken off long ago ? '

My dear Ermyntrude,' replied Lady Sun-bury,
' there are plants which only grow the
stronger for being broken off; any gardener
will tell you that. He was in Italy this
spring, and you know Soria is dead.'

Certainly lie was in Italy, and certainly
Soria is dead ; but it does not follow '

How can you say so ? Oh ! if there were
nothing more truly dangerous than the Olive
Shifftons of society we should not all suffer as
we do.'

Well, do not suggest it to Gladys. Here,
if anywhere, ignorance is bliss.'

I am not a mischief-maker,' replied Lady
Sunbury with hauteur and dignity.

I am afraid you are, sometimes,' thought
Ermyntrude Longleat ; and she communicated
her apprehensions to her brother.

I do not think there is any danger from
the Duchess Soria,' he answered. ' She is a
very proud woman. Proud women cannot be
discarded one day and freshly won the next.'

Oh, my dear, if she be still in love with
him ! ' said his sister, who did not see much
security in this barrier.

Meantime Gladys was only very dimly
aware of the causes for jealousy which were
given her. She did not understand enough
of the world or of the persons in it to be
conscious of how much she might have to
resent.



She felt that her husband cared but little
about her ; she was sensible that his life
contained numerous interests, friendships, and
amusements in which she had no part, and of
which she had scarcely any knowledge ; but
the complete innocence of her childhood hung
too long about her like a golden mist not to
be as yet a veil which blinded her to much.
She had no comprehension of men's natures.
Her father had tried to suggest their faults
and soles to her, but her mind had not embraced
the extent of his meaning. Only very
slowly, little by little, as months succeeded
months, did she begin to comprehend the vast
difference between what was and what seemed
to be, in the world in which she found herself,
and realised the vast extent to which unacknowledged
affections and influences have in it a
greater potency than those which are visible
and avowed.

In her ignorance she had fancied that,
because she was his wife, Guilders would
for ever prefer her to all others ; she learned
that it was rather almost all others whom he
preferred to herself. He was, indeed, never
unkind to her, or otherwise than courteous.

The greatest want of kindness which he ever
showed was in a lack of attention to what she
said, a restrained but yet perceptible weariness
whenever she was alone with him. He was
liberal even to extravagance in all he gave
her ; he was scrupulously punctilious in politeness
to her before his household or his friends,
and he was seldom ruffled to the utterance
even of an impatient sentence to her ear. But,
all the same, she felt that she was very little,
perhaps nothing, to him ; and when she recalled
the adoration of the first few weeks of
their union she felt a cold like ice close in
about her heart ; for she knew all that she
missed, all that she had lost.

No doubt there were many women of
her age who would have been made quite
sufficiently happy by the material powers and
pleasures which he had given her. But she
was not. Her pride was incessantly wounded
and her affections were incessantly starved ; and
she was sore of heart amidst the profusion, the
dazzling changes, the movement and the constant
crowds, of her new existence.

She had not very much time left to her to
think ; but her thoughts were often bitter and

troubled when her hips were speaking those
conventional phrases in which she had learned
to take refuge. The preoccupation and depression
which were so often on her took
from the charm of her personal loveliness,
because they robbed it of light and animation.
The glad spontaneous smile with which she
had welcomed the name of Sir Eager de
Coverley, or recognised the bay of Christslea
in David Cox's drawing, was never seen upon
her features now.

You have really marvellously acquired
all the morgue of an English great lady,'
he said to her once. ' I never imagined you
would be able to assume so easily the impassiveness
and unpleasantness which my sister
and many like her of the old school think so
necessary to the high breeding of a woman
of fashion ! '

He did not perceive that what were dead
in her were the vivacity, the insouciance and
the abandonment of youth.

That is cruelly unkind ; I do all that I
can to be whatever you wish,' she answered
him with tears brimming in her eyes.

He rose ; restless and angry, and unreasonable.

VOL. II. D

For Heaven's sake, my dear, do not give
way to hysteria like that,' he said with much
unconscious exaggeration. ' I thought you too
proud and high-spirited to burst out crying at
every word which does not flatter you.'

I do not want flattery,' she said indignantly.
I want only justice.'

'Anything which is not flattery seems injustice
to a woman,' he said irritably. ' One
can never hint a fault to them but what they
think we are brutal and ungenerous. All that
I ask of you is to enjoy your life — at least, to
look as if you did. It is no immense demand,
assuredly. You have everything which attracts
and pleases other women, and yet nothing
whatever seems to attract or please you. I
did not make the world, and I cannot alter it.
You must learn to take it as it is. We all
have to do so, or become intolerable to ourselves
and others.'

There is only one thing I want,' she said
in a voice so low that he scarcely heard it.

What is that ? ' he said with some impatience.
She looked at him, and could not
bring herself to answer.

Nothing you can give me,' she said with

a return of that coldness which he at once
admired and detested in her.

What some one else can give then ? ' he
asked with a sudden surprise and displeasure.

No.'

Cannot you speak, my dear, without
enigmas or monosyllables ? If it be anything
in reason you shall have it.'

She looked at him wistfully. She longed
to say to him all that she felt, to open her
heart to him in all its longing and pain,
but the sensitiveness and pride of her temper
kept the words of confession and entreaty from
her lips. She was afraid of his contemptuous
and slighting reception of her expressions of
affection, and she had the overwhelming consciousness
that she was too indifferent to him
for him ever to take the trouble to penetrate
or analyse her feelings for him.

I wish I could please you,' she said, instead
of the words which had been on her lips ; and
these seemed to him stiff and commonplace,
and left him cold.

You please me in much,' he said. 'I am
very proud of you in much. But I would
willingly see you gayer of temper and more

easily interested. It is so much, my dear, fora
woman to be amiable ! And nothing is so
unamiable as the tendency you display to brood
over your own wrongs and ^6><s^r to yourself as
superior to the rest of the world. Pray do not
let this inclination to tearful scenes grow upon
you. Nothing is so distressing to any man ;
and I more, even than most men, abhor everything
approaching to a scene. Eemember that,
dear, and try to be happy. If I have not made
you so it is my misfortune, not my fault.'

He believed what he said,

It will be terrible,' he thought when he
was alone, ' if she become la femme incomjjrise.
There is nothing on earth so distressing, so
inconsolable, so absolutely unreasonable upon
earth. At present she is young, and really
lovely, and it does not matter much ; but, years
hence, it will be unbearable, and how is one to
check it ? It is always a malady which grows.
Good heavens ! why were women made like
that — always analysing your feelings and their
own, always teasing you to tell them that what
is dying is not dead ; always pulling up love
by its roots if they think its blossom looks
sickly, always killing by over-culture the very

thing they most wish should live eternally ? I
know she is good. I think her lovely. I was
very fond of her for a while ; I am not now ; I
cannot help that. But it is possible that I
might be so again if she did not weary me.
Cannot she understand that ? No ; they never
understand it. They can never comprehend
that one's soul revolves like the earth, and has
its summer and winter solstice. With them it
must be all summer at canicular heat, and if
they cannot have the sunshine of summer, they
will at least have its storms.'

And he went out of his house with a sense
of extreme irritation.

I have always been kind to her,' he would
have said, if any one had reproached him ; and
he was indeed wholly unaware that anything
of kindness was lacking in him. He had had a
nervous dread of her displaying any attachment
to him in the world, and he was relieved
to find that she was so undemonstrative and
so reasonable. She suffered with all the terrible
anxiety of instinctive jealousy whenever
she saw his attentions to other women, and
when she realised how easy it was for them
to enchain and charm him, and how impossible

for her. But lier fears took no definite shape ;
even her sense of pain came rather from the
idea of her own insufficiency to him than of
his inconstancy to her.

CHAPTER XXII.

One day, Gladys returning unexpectedly
from a drive, and going upstairs to lier own
rooms without summoning any servant, came
suddenly on her head waiting woman, who was
standing before her opened jewel-safe. It was
an iron safe enclosed in an inlaid lac box of
great beauty, and standing on a metal tripod,
of which the feet were fastened to the floor by
screws. The key was kept by herself on her
watch-chain. •

The woman did not hear her approach,
and was pausing in hesitation before the
first jewel-tray ; her hesitation ended in selecting
rapidly two or three rings, which
she slipped into the bosom of her dress.
She was tempted, but afraid, to take the
larger objects. She was a Scotchman, a
widow, and very religious, high in esteem with,
and long trusted by, great families ; she had

been in the service of Gladys since her marriage,
when she had been hired for her by
Lady Sunbury.

Her mistress now went up to her without
a sound and took the key out of her hand.

Put back those rings you have stolen,'
she said in a calm voice. The woman turned
red and white, trembled, stammered, and protested.


Denial is of no use,' said Gladys. ' You
have opened the safe with a false key, for
I have its own key on my chain, as you know.
Put back the rings. You took three.'

The maid, trembling in every limb, brought
them from their hiding-place and restored them
to their cases.

'You will not ruin me, my lady? ' she said
piteously. ' My character is all that I have in
the world to live by ! '

Have you taken anything before ? '

Not much,' she muttered. ' I never
touched the safe before, so help me God ! But
you are very careless with your money, my
lady, and it is a cruel temptation to put in the
sight of poor folks.'

Gladys looked at her in disgust.

And I gave you fifty pounds last month
to send your children to the sea ! ' she said
slowly. ' And I have trusted you. I have
trusted you entirely ever since I took you
into my service. Are you not ashamed to
have repaid me thus ? '

You trust everybody, my lady,' said the
woman with ill-concealed scorn. ' And there
are those higher than I, and nearer to you than
I, as repays you worse.'

The face of Gladys flushed hotly.

Leave me this moment,' she said ; ' I will
not arrest you for the sake of your children.
Perhaps I do wrong to let a thief go unmarked
into the world. But I hope that
you will remember the danger you have escaped,
and be honest to your employers in the
future.'

The woman made her a low curtsey, murmured
a hypocritical blessing on her, and tried
to kiss her hand. But Gladys motioned her
away.

Leave the house in ten minutes, or I will
not answer for my longer clemency.'

The maid curtseyed a second time, and
withdrew in silence.

You young fool ! ' she thought, ' you have
never looked if your other jewels are safe, and
you little guess the nest-egg I have laid up
from your carelessness every month since I
have been in your service. Trusted me ! Aye,
you trust everybody, you born simpleton, and
you go through the muck of the world as if it
were a meadow of daisies ! '

When Gladys told Guilders of the incident
he was amused.

I am glad it is that sanctimonious Presbyterian,
whom Hilda thought such a pearl,' he
answered. 'My dear child, you may be quite
sure that you are robbed right and left by all
your people. We always are. The woes of
employers should be sung by another Tom
Hood. The whole world is just now on its
knees in adoration before the poorer classes ;
all the cardinal virtues are taken for granted
in them, and it is only property of any kind
which is the sinner. But I fancy, if the truth
were known, the scales are more evenly weighted
than that, and that the continuous robbery to
which property is subjected by those possessors
of all the virtues who yawn in our halls, and
gorge themselves on our food, would pretty

well make the balance even between us. Do
not think more about it. Take a Frenchwoman
; you will not find her reading the Bible
when you come home from a ball, but she will
be much more agreeable to you, and infinitely
more honest.'

But to Gladys the matter was not so light.

To a nature which is very faithful, honest,
and trustful, any deception seems the most
appalling of crimes ; and all ingratitude seems
to enter the very flesh like a thorn.

Soon after the discovery of the theft a
newspaper was sent to her with a broad
mark placed against one of its paragraphs.
She supposed it referred to some critique
or essay of her father's ; his scholarly work
for the great reviews was always full of
interest to her even when she did not
understand the subject of it. But at the
first line she now read a burning colour
mounted over her face and throat ; she saw
that the paragraph was far from the harmless
thing she thought, and that the news-sheet
was one of those curses of modern society
which live on supplying it with anonymous
calumnies.

The marked lines, carefully worded to
escape the laws of libel, but plain as the
alphabet to the initiated, spoke jestingly of
the tender relations existing between one of
the largest landowners and most influential
peers of the south-western counties and an
olive branch brought from the antipodes ;
suggested with a sneer that the olive in this
case would not mean peace, and recommended
the noble Lothario to read the marriage service
over once a week. In its studied innuendo
and its cowardly malignity the insinuated
charge was a masterpiece of its own venomous
and iniquitous order. More subtle than ago,
more treacherous than Iscariot, more devilish
than Satan's self, these privileged and unpunished
carrion-eaters of the press bear ruin
and shame and indignity into innocent hearts
and happy homes, themselves safe and secure
in their masked crime because the very loftiness
of the place of those whom they attack
forbids them to descend into the mud of public
tribunals.

She read it with horror, and flung it from
her as she would have cast off a viper.

She had been too much surrounded by

the hints and jests and smiles of the world
not to comprehend to what and to whom the
slander pointed. But it was the first time that
the full meaning of her husband's attentions to
women grew plain to her.

She paced to and fro her room in a
paroxysm of disgust and horror. She had the
sensation of falling headlong down from some
giddy height. All the force, the passion, and
the scorn which slept under her outward seriousness
and serenity leaped up in her. She
seized the paper from the corner whither she
had flung it, and tore it with quivering hands
into a thousand pieces.

At that moment Aubrey entered. One
glance at her face told him that she was suffering
from some great shock. ♦

My dear child, what can possibly have
happened ? ' he asked her in great concern.

It was four o'clock ; he was going down
to the House, and had come in for a moment
on his way to bring her some political
news

She told him in a few broken and ashamed
words what she had read.

It is not true ? It cannot be true ? ' she

asked him, gazing with heart-breaking entreaty
into his face.

Of course it is not true, my clear,' he
answered, avoiding her gaze ; and he said in
his soul, ' God forgive me if I tell her what
is a falsehood ! — after all it may not be
true.'

You should not read those papers,' he
added. ' The men who fatten and grow rich
on them should be flogged at the cart's tail
from Kensington to Shoreditch. When I think
that they drink burgundy, and drive in broughams,
while we send other men who snatch a
watch or a purse to the treadmill, I feel that
our whole hollow system of society and civilisation
is so accursed that it will be all too good
a fate for us if our whole city perishes by the
Clan-na-gael.'

But is it true ? ' she repeated, in all a
woman's seclusive narrowing of thought of her
own sufferings and passions. ' You know — you
know — he does admire her.'

I do not believe he admires her. He
plays with her. She amuses idle moments for
him in society, that is all,' replied Aubrey with
some embarrassment. ' My dearest child, do

not distress yourself. An Olive Shifted is not
worth one tear of yours.'

But I have seen ' The words were

broken in their utterance by a sob in her
throat.

Aubrey sighed heavily ; he felt all the restless
pain of a man before the sorrow of a
woman to whom he is sincerely attached, and
whom it is utterly out of his power to console.


You have seen him flirting with lier. All
that means nothing. You must not put any
false construction on it. She is a pretty woman
and an audacious ; but she has neither the
good breeding nor the good taste which could
ever make her really charming to a man who
has both. How can you read these foolish
and villainous news-sheets ? '

This one was sent to me marked. I
thought it was something about some essay of
my father's.'

Very likely she sent it herself,' said
Aubrey. But there he wronged her; it was
the discharged maid who had sent it. ' She is
an adventuress, nothing better, though London
society has taken her to its bosom. My dear

Gladys, do not descend to any thought of her.
It is beneath you.'

That is easily said ! ' she murmured, with
a faint smile.

And difficult to feel. That I quite understand.
But not impossible, I think, is it ? Not
to a proud and loyal nature? Not to your
father's daughter ? '

She was silent. He was infinitely grieved
for her. He felt an intensity of indignation
on her behalf which he could not express lest
he should lend weight to her suspicions and
strength to her anger. His affection for her
was full of compassion, and he felt much what
he would have felt if he had seen a child that
he was fond of struck a blow on its tender
flesh.

He endeavoured to make her apprehensions
and her wrongs seem lighter than he knew
that they had every right to be, because he
was convinced that any evidence of her indignation
given to his cousin would only cause
dissension and disunion, and lead to a scene
which would very likely end in final rupture.

You have never been intimate with this
person ? ' he asked.

Never. I bow to her ; and he told me to
send her a card for our great ball ; that was
all;

Then you will have no trial of intercourse
with her. I am sure that he will not ask you
to invite her to Ladysrood. He knows what
my sister's and his sister's opinions of her are.
Next season you may be sure he will have forgotten
she exists. You will say nothing of this
to him ? '

No ? '

Her accent was interrogative, doubtful, reproachful.


No,' said Aubrey. ' No ; certainly not if
you are wise, my dear. He is not a man to be
patient under interrogation or reproach. If
you appeared to believe such a story you AvCTuld
possibly excite, you would inevitably irritate
him. He will see and know nothing of it. He
never reads newspapers by any hazard, and
you may be sure that no one will venture to
speak of this to him.'

But something should be done ? Is such
an offence as that to pass ? Am I to be humiliated
in such a way, and no one of all my
friends revenge it ? '

VOL. II. E

Leave the matter to me,' said Aubrey.
You are a part of my family. All that ought
to be done shall be done. But for your own
sake, my dear, do not open this subject with
Guilders.'

She was silent still.

All the burning pain of the first deadly
knowledge of her life was like fire in her veins.
To her, as to every woman who loves and is
wronged, the hardest task of all was to be meek
and to endure with patience.

You believe that I am your friend ? ' said
Aubrey, gravely, as he took her hands in his
own. She raised her eyes to his heavy with
tears.

Oh, yes,' she said, with deep emotion. 'You
are the only friend I have, except my father.'

Aubrey was deeply touched, but he restrained
all that he felt.

Do not say that, dear ; you have many
who care for you. My sister cares very warmly ;
and were she here she would say the same to
you as I. Do not be the first to break your
peace with Evelyn ; if you were to speak of this
bitterly — and you could not speak of it calmly
it would be a firebrand which would set in a

blaze the whole of your relations with him,
present and future.'

She did not answer. She could not say even
to Aubrey what she felt in her heart, that she
was absolutely nothing to her husband, and that
the violence of anger from him would have
seemed almost more easily endurable than the
sense that he only gave her outward courtesies
and that sort of indifferent regard which he felt
for her because she was physically beautiful, and
so did him honour in the world.

You will promise me ? ' said Aubrey. ' I
have not a moment to lose. I must be at the
House in ten minutes' time ; tell me before I go
that you will follow my counsels. Believe me
they are such as Yernon himself would give
you were he here.'

I will try,' she answered.

That is not enough. You must say, " I
will." You will keep your promise once given,
I know.'

She hesitated a moment ; then she said in a
low voice :

You can judge best, I daresay. I will not
speak of it.'

That is right, and brave, and wise. One

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

day you will thank me,' said Aubrey; lie
kissed her forehead gravely with his accustomed
salute and left her.

It had cost him much to keep to her a
tone so calm and in semblance almost unsympathetic.
He felt that if he had met
Guilders upon the staircase of the house it
would have been a hard struggle not to have
insulted him in her behalf. But he knew that
the advice which he had given her was sound.
She would have to learn to bear such trials as
these in silence. Probably much heavier ones
would await her in the future.

Poor child ! ' he thought sadly. His heart
was heavy as he walked towards Westminster.
His thoughts went back to the days of his early
and secret marriage ; the fatal mistake of his
boyhood, which had been confessed to his father
but to no other creature in the world. He
recalled the immense devotion, the exaggerated
constancy, which he had given in the ardour
and loyalty of youth to one whose worth lessens
he had learned too late. How strange, how contradictory,
how cruel, he thought, the caprices
and the awards of fate ! He who in the loneliness
of rank and power would have deemed a

great, a disinterested, and a faithful love the
dearest of earth's treasures, had been betrayed
where he had given heart and soul and honour ;
and his cousin, to whom to give constancy was
impossible and to receive it was wearisome, had
the whole life of this beautiful child centered in
him, and was moved by it rather to impatience
and annoyance than to any other emotion !

He will want some day what he throws
away now,' thought Aubrey as he walked to
his place m the Chamber.

And the next moment he knew that this
reflection was romantically false ; that it was
beyond all other things unlikely that Guilders
would ever be met by any such chastisement
in kind ; and that in the treasure-house of love
it is frequently those who give the least who
most receive.

CHAPTEE XXIII.

I HAVE not a doubt the Shifftou woman
had it put in herself to compromise him. It
is just the sort of thing she would do,' said
the Duchess of Longleat, when he spoke of the
matter to her.

He has no right to place himself in a position
to be compromised,' said Aubrey.

The best advice to her,' said the Duchess,
would be to flirt outrageously ; to compromise
herself, to awaken him and affright him. But
one hesitates to tell her that, it is always
playing with edged tools.'

'And I do not think she would do it if
you did tell her. The swan cannot affect the
parade of the peacock. She is not of that
type.'

JN'o, she will not flirt,' said the Duchess.
But she may do worse. If she be thus chilled
and offended, she may throw herself into some

flood of real passion, half out of vengeance,
and half out of the need of love. That is
usually the way with women who are reserved
in manner but have warm hearts.'

There is no such passion in our day.'

Oh, my dear, that is a mere phrase. There
is as much, or as little, as there ever was probably.
Your favourite Greeks and Latins were
as fond of butterfly loves as our society is, if I
remember aright the verses that you used to
translate to me at Balfrons when we were
children.'

'Yes, but theirs were loves, whilst they
lasted; in most of the 'affairs" of our days
what is there except vanity, advertisement,
often avarice, sometimes jealousy, at best, sensual
impulses ? Of passion nothing, or almost
nothing.'

I think she would be capable of more.'

I think so too ; she is capable of more ;
but it is thrown away on a man who does not
even perceive it.'

She will not always give everything for
nothing.'

Probably ; and that makes her danger.
If she ever love anyone else, she will not

be content with one of the passing liaisons of
which we see so much ; she will believe herself
lost, as women believed in old days, and will
end her life wretchedly in ceaseless remorse.'

It is Guilders who should have the remorse.'


Aubrey smiled bitterly.

My dear ! Do you think he could ever
be stirred to such an emotion, even if he stood
by her dead body ? He would say that she
had always been unreasonable, and unsympathetic.
Every woman seems to him unsympathetic,
and unreasonable, who does not at once
understand his desertion of her.'

He felt the greatest anger against his
cousin ; he had always been impatient of his
many changes and his countless passions,
and he had blamed him for wasting all
his years and his intelligence in the mere
pursuit of women who only wearied him as
soon as they were won. But now his anger
against him took a more personal shape. He
felt intolerant of his neglect of his duties and
his indifference to all that was noblest and
worthiest of culture in the nature of Gladys.

He preserved silence towards him, because

his intimate experience of the world told him
that interference has almost always unhappy
issues, and he saw no way in which it would
be possible for him to convey to Guilders
his own opinions without producing such a
quarrel as must inevitably put an end to all
intimacy between them. Besides, what effect
could remonstrance of any kind have upon a
temperament like his cousin's ?

If he did not care for his wife, what condemnation
or persuasion could ever induce him
to do so ? Feelings are not to be called into
existence by censure or argument. They are
wind-sown flowers, and must spring how and
where they will.

Gladys kept her word.

She never mentioned the matter to Guides
and she never flinched or even betrayed
anger when she met Olive Shifflon in society,
as she constantly did. Her manner grew a
little colder, a little graver, to all the world
than it had been before ; and all the women,
and many a man, said what a pity it was that
she was so silent, and looked so uninterested,
that none could, in common parlance, ' get on '
with her ; but that was all. She went out

into the world with her pain hidden under
conventional courtesies, with quite as much
courage as the Spartan boy who hid the
growing cub beneath his cloak.

Was it true? That wonder, that doubt,
haunted her every hour. It occupied her
every thought. It almost made her forget her
little dead boys lying in their tiny coffins on
beds of dead white roses in the churchyard of
Ladysrood. Was it true ? Was it ?

At times, horrible coarse temptations assailed
her, things that she had read of or heard
of, means by which women in jealous pain
learned the truth through interrogated servants
or bribed messengers. But such temptations
only passed through her mind for moments, as
hot winds sweep) over fair fields. Her loyalty
and her pride alike rejected their tempting.
Yet the impression grew more strongly upon
her that it was true. There was, or she fancied
there was, an insolence of triumph in the
black languid eyes of Olive Shifilon whenever
they met hers across a crowded room, which
to her tortured fancy confirmation writ. And
she had not even the solace of Aubrey's
presence, for ten days after the day on which

she had received the journal he had been compelled
to go to Balmoral as the minister in
attendance on the Queen.

What was the use of a great love, she
thought wearily, if he to whom it was given
neither heeded nor wanted it ?

It was certainly beautiful in theory for her
father to bid her make hers so great, that her
husband could find no other equal to it ; but
if its force, its sincerity, its magnitude, only
formed a total which was wearisome to the
object of it, what then ? What good could it
effect? To what purpose did it exist? She
could comprehend that women might pardon
inconstancy, where it was loyally confessed and
generously atoned for ; she could imagine that
there might be relations which only became
closer, sweeter, and dearer for temporary separation
and offences of the passions ; but neither
of these was her case. Guild troy neither confessed
nor atoned, neither quarrelled with, nor
admitted that he offended her. He simply
went his own way as though he had never
married her, and was at once so calm, so
courteous, and so careless that such serenity
hurt and insulted her more in her own sight

than any quarrel with her would have done.
Aubrey and her father both spoke of her
duties as making patience, silence, and endurance
her obligation ; but she was too young
and too much in love with her husband to
resign herself to that mute course without the
most painful effort. No doubt they were right,
no doubt they were wise, she thought bitterly,
but they were not women with aching hearts
that they could understand. Did any one
understand ? No one in the world, she thought.
Every one seemed to consider that such trials
as hers were inevitable and mattered little.
Every one seemed to hold that the material
advantages of position and fortune were compensation
enough for all pain.

She loved him with all the tender and
fanciful poetry of youth and womanhood ; but
any expression of it had been crushed into
silence in her, by the consciousness which
came to her very early that it would seem
to him inopportune and wearisome. He was
not a man to prolong passion after possession,
and any evidence of his wife's for him would
have been sure to find him cold and critical.
He had hinted as much to her once, and her

mind, sensitive and receptive to a fault, never
forgot the impression given to her by it. He
had without intending it conveyed to her the
sense that she was his, much as were the other
decorations of his state and his position ; the
companion of his days of ceremony, not of
his hours of pleasure, the associate of his rank,
but not of his affections.

He had not intended to give her this impression
in any measure so strongly as she had
received it ; but it had been given even in the
early Venetian days, and could not be effaced.
When the speaker is careless of what he says,
and the hearer listens with apprehension and
self-torment, the latter constantly is wounded
when the former had no intent whatever to
wound.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Some weeks later in the season she chanced
to stop her carriage one afternoon at a
fashionable club ; old Lord Balfrons, who
scarcely ever stirred out of his own houses,
had been in person to her desiring to see
Guilders at once. She did not know at all
where he was, and said so, but his uncle was
sure that he was at one ot his clubs at that
hour, and bade her go and inquire. The old
marquis was angered and anxious ; he had set
his fancy on securing a certain Vandyke which
had come into the market, and in his son's
absence required the offices of his nephew.
He was petulant, eager, and unreasonable ; as
great age, like youth, is apt to be when there
is a chance that one of its whims may be
thwarted ; and Gladys, afraid to vex him, did
what she had never done before, and drove to
various houses in Pall Mall and St. James' Street.

At one of them the porter, new to his
place and ill-versed in the prudence which
his situation required, came to her carriage-door
with a note in his hand. He said that
Guilders had not as yet been to the club that
day; but there was a letter which had come for
him ; would her ladyship take it ? Gladys took
the envelope in her hand, and she recognised the
grey olive leaf and the gold letter S. For an
instant a horrible temptation assailed her ; she
held the note one brief instant in her hand
while the colour changed in her cheeks from
pale to red, from red to pale, in rapid alternation.
In another instant she had conquered
the temptation ; she remembered the scorn
which her father would have for her if she
yielded to it.

She gave the letter back to the porter.
Lord Guilders will take it when he comes,'
she said, in a voice which trembled a little
despite her efforts. ' To the park,' she said to
her servant ; and the horses bore her rapidly
away.

The day chanced to be fine ; the sunshine
was gay. Her friends and acquaintances
saluted her by the score ; but though she

mechanically returned their salutations she was
not sensible of what she did. The noise of
the streets was like the sound of a great sea
in her ears, and the yellow light, with the
motes of the sunbeams and the vapours of
the smoke dancing in it, was vague and confused
before her eyes.

The sight of the letter had confirmed the
suspicion which had haunted her for some
days. Jealousy seemed to her a miserable
and vulgar tiling ; a wretched weakness >vhich
any woman of courage and pride should
scout as a degradation ; and yet, being only
human, she was jealous, and she suffered intensely.


Does pain always make vileness so easy ? '
she thought bitterly. That she should have
felt such a temptation seemed for one moment
to have sunken her fathoms deep in indignity.
John Yernon had taught her the code of honour
of a high-bred gentleman, the kind of teaching
which is unhappily omitted from the education
of most women, yet which is more necessary
for their own happiness, and that of those
connected with them, than all the learning or
graces in the world. Had he wholly ceased

to care for her? Had he, indeed, ever really
cared at all? The doubt which had so long
festered and ached in her heart became a
certainty. She did not believe that he had
ever loved her. In truth he never had.

She did not see him that day or evening at
all ; they had different engagements. The next
day they had a dinner party at home ; she saw
lino for a moment before it, and took the
occasion to say to him : ' Would you mind my
going to Ladysrood for a few days ? I am
tired of the hurry of the season.'

My love, always do what you wish,' answered
Guilders, with the careless amiability
of indifference. ' I would not remain long
were I you ; it would look odd at this moment.'


He does not even wish me away,' she
thought. ' So little does my presence affect
him ! '

Aloud she answered, * I will only stay three
days ; only time enough to see my father.'

Your father should come into the world.
It is a pity he is so eccentric. He would bethe
most popular man in London if he would
only show himself.'

VOL. 11. F

'He would not care for popularity.'

I wish you did ; at the least it is a very
amiable quality, and wins one innumerable
friends.'

You are very popular.'

There was an accent which sounded disagreeably
in the ear of Guilder oy in the few
simple words.

I do not think I am,' he said with irritation.
' I care too little about other people. I
am too great an egotist, as you and your father
are always telling me, and I believe it is
true.'

You are very popular,' she repeated quietly.
At least with women.'

You do me much honour,' he replied with
a little laugh, not entirely free from embarrassment.
At that moment the first of their guests
entered their drawing-rooms. The next morning,
very early, before Guilders was awake,
she left the house, and took the express train
of the forenoon to Ladysrood without announcing
her arrival there to any one. In the coolness
of the late summer afternoon she drove her
ponies over the moor to her father's cottage.
The sandy road, running between high banks

of marl and sandstone, crowned with blossoming
furze, with nodding foxgloves, and with
osmunda fern, was the same which John Vernon
had taken after the ceremony of her marriage,
when he had wished the golden flowers to be a
symbol of her path through life.

The evening was grey and still, and very
peaceful ; there was a honey smell in the air
rising from the short wild thyme ; it had rained
the day before, and there was a delicious moisture
in the air ; the moors were lonely, here
and there girls drove a flock of geese across them,
or a herd of red and dappled cattle was seen
browsing quietly. The simple familiar scene
touched her painfully ; it seemed centuries since
she had been a child there herself, as careless
as the girl that drove the geese, as the young
heifers that cropped the thyme : and yet not
much more than three .years had gone by since
she had been found in the hut with the fox
cub, and had left childhood behind forever,
not knowing her loss.

She found John Vernon reading a mighty
folio of ancient date under the apple trees of
his pasture, and for a moment she felt a child
again, when she saw the ivy-shrouded porch,

r2

the homely sweet-smelling garden, the low
thatched roof, and the lattice window of her
own chamber. She never came to Christslea
without a sense of peace returning to her for
so long as she stayed under its tangle of honeysuckle
and of sweetbread.

Why did you not tell me, my dear ? I
would have awaited you at Ladysrood,' said
Vernon. ' What can possibly bring you down
in the height of the season? Are you not
well? You look tired.'

The life is fatiguing, there is nothing real
in it ; it is all haste and turmoil.'

Nevertheless you should enjoy even that
at your age. I think they call it being dans le
mouvement, do they not ? I suppose the mouvement
is much wilder and more breathless than
it was in my day. However, my dear child,
whatever the sins of the world, I am grateful
to them since they have sent you to lighten my
loneliness.'

You will come back to Ladysrood with me,
will you not ? I shall only be there one day, I
must go back on the third ; there is a State
ball ; they would not like me to be absent
from it.'

I will come with you willingly,' said John
Vernon. ' You know without you at Christslea,
the summer brings no flowers for me.'

I love to be here ! ' said his daughter.
It makes me feel young again.'

When she had renewed her acquaintance
with the old man and woman who formed the
household of Christslea, with the cocks and the
hens, with the birds and the bees, with the red
and white stocks and the clumps of sweet-william,
with the big old dog, and the tame
fox in the orchard, and to please the old servants
had drunk a little cyder and eaten a
piece of honeycomb, sitting in the porch, she
drove her father home with her in the now
darkening night to Ladysrood.

Eeally, my love, you should be a* very
happy woman,' said Vernon, as the ponies
trotted through the deep ferny brakes of the
park over the smooth grass drives, and going
at a gallop up the lime avenue of the western
entrance, were pulled up before the great
house standing glorious and spiritualised in
the white moonlight, with all its towers and
pinnacles and fantastic corbels standing out
against the start sky.

Because the park is fine and the house is
handsome ? ' said Gladys, in a tone which he
had never heard from her. ' Surely these are
very coarse and material reasons for you to
allege ? I thought you never weighed externals.'


I do not think they are coarse reasons,'
said Vernon, a little coldly. ' Beauty is a great
element in happiness. Not the only factor,
certainly, but a very important factor nevertheless,
for those who have eyes to see it. I
think the possession of an ancient, historical,
and beautiful house is one of the most poetic
pleasures in life ; and I think, too, that the
indifference with which many of the owners
of such houses consider them is one of the
greatest signs of decay in any nobility. Not
long ago, too, my dear, you were in love
with Ladysrood. I hope you do not tire
of it because it is yours. That would bea
sad lesson for London life to have taught
you.'

I like it very much,' said Gladys ; but the
tone had no warmth in it. ' I daresay if my
little boys had lived I should have felt affection
for it.'

You will have other children, no doubt,'
said Vernon, ' and I should have thought
there were already existing reasons for you to
be attached to your home.'

She did not reply.

I confess I am very attached to it myself,'
he continued, not wishing to dwell too seriously
on the subject. ' It is a really noble place, and
though it is very eclectic in the many various
tastes which have gone to make it what it is,
yet it is harmonious even in its contradictions
of styles and epochs. The only perfect house
is a house in which one reads as in a book the
history of a race.'

It was nine o'clock. Dinner awaited them,
served in the small dining-room of the Queen
Anne wing of the house. Vernon ate nothing,
as was his custom at that hour, and his daughter
ate little ; her favourite dogs supplied willing
appetites. The dinner over, she and he strolled
out on to the west terrace ; the air was very
warm, the stars brilliant, the sound of the distant
sea came to their ears on the silence ; behind
them were the lighted windows of the wings ;
before them the quaint green garden, with its
high chipped hedges, its fishponds, its yew

trees under which Charles Stuart had played at
bowls, and Elizabeth Tudor had sat to watch
a midsummer masque sparkling amongst the
roses. They stood awhile leaning against the
balustrade of the terrace, then Vernon sat
down on one of the stone chairs, and said
quietly :

Tell me, my love, why have you come tome?'


Gladys did not change her position. She
still leaned her arms on the balustrade, her
chin rested on her hands ; her eyes looked into
the dewy darkness of the hushed night.

I wanted to tell you what a vile and mean
thing 1 nearly did,' she answered slowly ; and
she told him of her temptation to open the
letter.

Vernon sat mute, his face in shadow, and
he spoke no word till she had finished quite ;
even then he waited some moments ere he
answered.

You could not help your longing,' he said
at length. ' It is just these inclinations towards
base actions which sometimes enter the
highest souls which make us understand how
the myth of the devil arose. I am thankful,

indeed, that my daughter did not stoop to
baseness.'

She turned her face towards him, and her
eyes were full of tears.

He does not love me, you know. I have
known it a long time. I do not think he ever
did.'

My dear ! You are dreaming ! Why
else should he have married you ? '

It was a caprice — he has so many caprices.
Do you remember that line in the Phaedrus :
What we call winged Eros, the immortals call
Pteros for his flighty nature P " Pteros is his
love. He knows no other.'

John Vernon listened with bitter regret.
He had known that it was so ; he had always
known it ; but he had hoped that she would be
young enough and blind enough not to find it
out herself — at all events, not to find it out
until time should have rendered it a matter of
little moment to her. All his heart yearned
towards her in this her first great sorrow, but
he believed that sympathy would be the un-kindest
kindness which he could give her.
What was the use of feeding morbid regrets
and sense of wrong which could never avail in

any way to get her back what she believed
that she had lost ?

I think you speak very bitterly and hastily
on small grounds,' he said, resisting his desire to
sympathise with her, and curse the man who
had made her unhappy. ' It does not in the
least follow that because a woman writes to
him secretly that he invites, or even cares for,
her to do so. It may be even an annoyance
to him that he cannot prevent. You cannot
tell.'

I can tell. I have seen them together a
hundred times. I believe the whole world
knows it — except myself.'

Well, let us admit that it is so. I do
not defend him. But I do say, my dear, that
jealousy in a man's wife makes her odious to
him and ridiculous to the world at large. Ina
woman who is not his wife jealousy may be
permissible, because her tenure is so insecure
that she may naturally tremble for its duration.
But in his wife it is to others absurd and to
him intolerable. Une femme qui se respecte
nest jamais jalouse. My dear child, you are
still very young ; you still know no more than
very young women do of the characters and

passions of men. My dear, I can assure you
of one thing — no man is constant to one
woman. Male constancy is not in nature, and
therefore it is not demanded in law. I understand
that you are in love with your husband,
and therefore it is impossible for you to understand
why he is no longer in love with you.
I can only tell you, my child, that nature
has made man inconstant ; utterly inconstant
through his senses, even when he remains
constant in his heart. It is terrible to you ; it
is terrible to every woman when she learns it
for the first time. But the only women whoever
arrive at retaining happiness are those
who recognise this as a fact, and allow for the
man's infidelity as they would pardon an infant's
forwardness.' •

She was silent ; her chin still rested on her
hands, her eyes still gazed into the shadowy
woods which surrounded the gardens beneath
her. Her whole soul rebelled passionately at
the suggestion that she should accept inconstancy
as inevitable and forgive it as immaterial
; she had all the vehemence, the narrowness,
the exclusive passion of youth and of
womanhood.

Why did you not tell me all this — before
you let me marry ? ' she said at last, very
bitterly.

Vernon had long known that some day or
other that reproach would be brought against
him.

It would have been no use, my love,' he
said gently ; ' no use whatever if I had. Love
had blinded you. And I could not even speak
of such things to a child like you. What could
you have understood ? You do not even understand
much now.'

I understand, then, you think him
right ? '

I have never said so. I do not necessarily
approve a thing because I admit its possibility.
Abstractedly, I agree with Plato that men
should govern their passions, but actually I
know that they do not do so until they are at
least as old as I am, and not always then.
And what I most want you to see is, that even
if your husband be indeed" unfaithful to you,
which is a mere assumption on your part, you
will gain nothing by the endeavour to resent
what you cannot alter. After all, my child,
if a woman cannot keep the affections she has

once won, pride should keep her from hinting
her own failure, and tenderness should
make her silent on it. You seem to me to
be drifting into a state of irritation and of
aigrew% which can serve no purpose except
that of your enemies, if you have any, who
may wish to see the breach widened between
you and Guilders.'

The women who care for him wish it no
doubt ! '

Well, it is into their hands that you play.
You have self-control and you have intelligence.
I want you to perceive that, whatever
she may feel, only a weak woman and a silly
woman degrades herself by the exhibition of
conjugal jealousy.'

She was again silent ; she bit her lips to
restrain the emotion which well nigh mastered
her. She knew that her father was right,
but the advice struck on the aching warmth
of her young heart like cold steel on warm
flesh.

Holm Vernon's own heart ached for her,
and had he followed his impulse he would have
given her the mere fond unreasoning consoling
sympathy that another woman would have

given. But he knew that it would be the most
unwholesome thing that he could offer her in
such a moment.

'You have said nothing, I hope, to
Guilders ? ' he asked her. She shook her
head. *Pray continue to say nothing. If it
be not as you suppose, a false accusation would
incense him greatly ; if it be as you suppose,
it could do no possible good. You would drive
him into either a subterfuge or a rage. Neither
are desirable results. Believe me, dear, a wise
woman never asks questions. What is the use
of asking them ? The person tormented takes
refuge in prevarication or in downright falsehood.
His character is irritated and injured,
and the woman who has worried him sinks
farther and farther from any chance of ever
obtaining his true and voluntary confidence.
Love may be won and confidence may be won,
but neither can be bullied.'

What am I to do then .? To learn to care
nothing ? Is that the best .^ ' she asked in a
cold voice.

God forbid,' said Vernon. ' What did I
tell you, my child, the day you first came home
after your marriage ? That you must care so

much that you will give him an affection he
cannot get elsewhere. I admit that this requires
self-negation, self-control, self-efficient,
in a measure which it is exceedingly
hard to attain. Most women are self-centred
even when they are not selfish. Their egotism
is wholly unlike male egotism, but it is apt to
be very narrow and very exacting. A man
changes and forgets ; the woman often does
neither ; but it does not follow that for that
reason she is unselfish, though no doubt she
thinks she is, in her close adherence to her
memories. My dear child, life is not all a
poem nor all a playtime. It is often monotonous,
trying, and full of irritation. This period
of yours is especially so to you. But you will
not make it smoother or happier by thinking
yourself wronged on small proof

But if it be true that I am ? Then '

Then — well, even then I would counsel
you to bear it with silence and with dignity.
Expostulation and upbraiding are bad weapons,
and cut the hand which uses them. I never
thought that Lord Guilders was of a character
which would give you happiness. T
did not tell you so, but I told him so constantly.

He has the natural faults of a man
whom the whole world has conspired to spoil.
He is imaginative, impatient, capricious, and
inflammable ; such men are always inconstant
; they cannot help being so any more
than the vane can help turning with the wind.
But he has many lovable and generous qualities
; to you he has been exceptionally generous
; think of his finer nature and pardon him
its weaker side. That is the only counsel I
dare give you, for your sake and for his.
Alas ! I see you are unconvinced.'

I am unhappy ! ' she said in her heart, but
she did not say it aloud. She was angered
against her father ; she had expected from him
indignant denunciation and a sympathy which
would not pause to weigh or analyse. Her
heart was aching bitterly with passionate pain
which would have willingly found vent in some
rash action ; the calm philosophy of John
Yernon seemed to her like so much ice given
her when she shivered in the cold and asked
for a shelter by the fire.

'It is no use speaking of it,' she said,
wearily ; after a while, ' Let us go in ; I think
the turmoil of London hurts me less than all

this summer silence. One wants to be so happy
to bear to look at the stars ! '

Yernon rose and put his arm tenderly
upon her shoulder.

My dear child ! you will be happy again.
You have not bidden adieu to life at twenty
years old ! My advice sounds very chill and
unsympathetic to you no doubt ; but it is sound.
It is of no use to rebel against woes which spring
from character. You are very young still ;
you are a beautiful woman ; if you have tact and
patience and forbearance you will ultimately
vanquish your rivals, if rivals you truly have.
But if you display jealousy, if you descend to
baseness, to espionage, to recrimination, you
will forfeit your own esteem and you will lose
all hold upon your husband. Men, my love,
are not merciful to women's tears as a rule ;
and when it is a woman belonging to them
who weeps, they only go out and slam the door
behind them ! '

^ I shall not weep, believe me,' she said,
bitterly ; and she drew herself away from his
touch and went across the pavement of the
terrace into the drawing-room which opened
on to it ; the wax Hghts were shining on the red

VOL. II. G

satin wall-hangings, the rococo furniture, the
Chelsea and Worcester china, the old Delft and
Nankin vases ; it was the room in which
Guilders had told his sister of his intention
to marry John Vernon's daughter.

Her father followed her, and looked at her
in silence, with infinite pity.

It was not my fault,' he thought. ' I did
what I could. It was the old story, si jeunesse
savait I Ah ! si jeunesse savait what marriage
would ever be made at all P '

He took her hands in his.

My dearest Gladys,' he said, gravely, ' I
confess that I do not think your life will be
very happy. I never thought that it would be.
You have a great position and great possessions,
but you are not of a nature to be satisfied
with these. But it lies with you to retain
what one may say are the angels which
stand about the throne of life — honour, unselfishness,
and sympathy ; they are not the
smiling angels which youth loves best, but they
have a comfort in them by a dying bed. Try
that they shall always be with you. The rest
of the heavenly troop will very likely come
behind them uncalled.'

The tears, so long withheld, rushed into
her eyes ; she kissed the hands which held hers,
and left the room. He let her go, and himself
paced to and fro the long red room with
agitated steps ; it had cost him effort to keep
so calm a tone, to give only so apparently
niggard a sympathy.

While I am here I can save her perhaps,'
he thought. ' But when I am gone ? '

And he knew that this might be soon, for
what he had never told her was the frail tenure
on which his own life hung, and the ever near
end of all things which was only warded off
by that perfectly passionless and solitary life
which he was supposed by her, and by all who
knew him, to have selected by free choice.

When I am gone ' he thought, and

the thought was one of acute and intense pain
to him. The idea that he would tell her husband
his own secret, and beseech his better
care of her, passed through his mind ; but
what use, he reflected, would it be .^ Guilders
was gentle, courteous, and kind ; easily moved,
too, for awhile, and ready to promise impossibilities
; he would be sorry, he would be
touched, he would swear to be governed by

loyalty unci constancy ; and then, women and
the world would surround him, and he would
forget. It would be only waste of words.
John Yernon never wasted words, and for a
score of years had never asked for sympathy ;
and he had so long kept m his own breast the
knowledge of the mortal disease within him
that he could not have brought himself to speak
of it without painful effort.

CHAPTEE XXy.

Did you ever hear of the story of Griseldis ? '^
he asked her the next day as they strolled
through the gardens.

Yes ; she was a very foolish woman.'

Certainly she looks somewhat of a fool
to us. But perhaps she was in truth very
wise ; she gained what she wanted in the
end.'

She had certainly a very pitiful spirit'*

Do you think so ? Patience and silence
are never pitiful, surely. They are grand
qualities.

Gladys smiled with some scorn.

A donkey is patient, so is a cow. We do
not rate them very highly in the scale of
creation.'

Do you often answer Evelyn in that
tone?'

^ I do not know. Yes, perhaps — I daresay
I do. Why?'

Only that it would possibly tend to make
him seek the society of those who did not.'

She was silent.

We often complain,' continued Vernon, with
some dreaminess in his tone, ' that others do
not care for us, or cease to care for us ; and we
seldom ask ourselves if the fault is not ours, if
we are not often irritating and even intolerable
to them ; if we try to understand them
in what is opposed to us ; if we endeavour
to give them what they wish, not what we
wish. Love, which is made such a fuss
about, is only an immense selfishness unless
it does do this. What do you think .^ You
despise Griseldis ; what would you have had
her do ? '

Go away.'

Go away ? And leave her children ? '

She could have taken them with her.'

A dangerous vengeance. And she would
have violated her marriage vows.'

Since he violated his, she would surely
have been justified.'

'Ah, my dear! the cases are not parallel.

Both psychology and physiology will tell you
so if you study them. Griseldis no doubt never
studied either, but she was wise enough to act
as if she had.'

When I was a child and read the story, I
despised her.'

Then there is something of true womanhood
lacking in you, my dear.'

Is true womanhood abject slavishness ? '
It is infinite abnegation of self.'
Gladys laughed, and there was a sound of
hardness in the laugh.

Then women of the world have very little
of it indeed. They dress, they flirt if they can,
they spend money when they have it, and run
bills when they have not ; they make a fuss
over a quantity of useless undertakings which
they call charity, or politics, as their taste is, but
they never sacrifice themselves for one second
of their time ; when they take their lovers it is
with a view of self-aggrandisement by some
affair which will make them more sought after
by the world and by other men. There is not
an emotion, scarcely even a sensual preference,
in any one of their attachments. I wish that
you would come into the world. You would

see then there would be no place in it for
Griseldis if she were revived.'

Griseldis is a figure of speech.'

Yes. Nowadays she would have the income
of her settlements, the custody of her
children, and the consolation of the newspapers
! '

'You are rather cynical, my dear. It is
not becoming to a young woman, and it is not
lovable in an old one.'

Ah, I wish I had never left you and
Christslea.'

Do you think you would have been contented
if you had married a curate or a squire ?
I doubt it. There is something naturally grande
dame in you which would have rebelled against
small means and narrow lives.'

I never rebelled when I was with you.'

No. You were a good child, but you were
a child. I did not welcome your marriage, but
I doubt if I should have been stoic enough to
complacently watch your roses fade, and your
years sip away, in the rustic loneliness and
homeliness of my cottage. It was lovely to see
you in it at seventeen, but it would not have been
lovely to see you in it at seven and-twenty.

What the French call un beau manage is after
all a magic wand to a maiden.'

She did not speak, but she gave an impatient
gesture.

Vernon looked at her earnestly. * Do you
absolutely regret yours?' he asked. 'Would
you undo it if you could ? '

This moment ! '

There was the vibration of intense meaning
in the words.

Vernon sighed.

That is terrible if it be true. I hope
you speak in haste and in offence. You are
more unforgiving, Gladys, and less generous
than I thought you. I thought that your
feelings for Guilders were of a very different
kind.'

You have a curious tenderness for him I '
she said, bitterly.

I do not think I have any,' replied her
father. ' But I confess that, as a man of honour,
I feel that both you and I are bound to give
him some indulgence in return for the confidence
he placed in us, and for the great gifts (though
you think them mere vulgar considerations)
which he has lavished on you in an affection

which, if not eternal, must have been genuine.
I am the last person on earth to over-estimate
such gifts ; but I am also, I confess, the last
person on earth who could tolerate the idea
that my daughter, when a man trusted her with
his name, and his good name, hated the one
and imperilled the other. My dear, it was said
by a Greek called Socrates, long before it was
repeated by Christ, that it is not right to do
evil, and that to say it has been done to us
is no excuse or reason for us to return it. Nor
can I easily conceive that one could feel any
temptation to return it if it were done by a
person we had ever once loved ! '

He spoke very calmly, but there was an
accent of sternness in his voice which she had
never heard from him. She felt for the first
time in her life that she had in all the world no
judge so just but none so unrelentingly severe
as her father.

The question which sorely perplexed John
Yernon was not to change or control the caprices
of Guilders, for he considered that hopeless,
but how to induce his wife to comprehend them
in a measure, and to view them, if not with
pardon, at least with serenity and silence.

What else was there for her to do ?

His natural affection for his child made him
angered against the man who caused her mortification
and pain, but the sense of justice
which was equally strong in him made him
conscious that it was impossible for such
a man to confine his existence within the
limits of such emotions and such actions as
would be likely to please the ear and meet the
approval of a woman as young as Gladys.
There is an instinctive movement towards
freedom, an instinctive aversion to self-confession,
in the breast of every man who has
not outlived his enjoyment of the warmth of
passion and the pleasures of liberty.

But alas ! alas ! ' thought John Vernon,
so few women are wise enough to know !his,
and still fewer women are unselfish enough to
act on it ! '

Her dignity, her demands, her sentiments,
her desires, her injuries and her rights, loom so
large usually in a woman's sight that she never
sees beyond them, and thus for ever misses truth.

The exceeding justness of his nature made
him able to conceive the irritation that it
would be to Guilders to account for all his

hours to a woman as young, and as incapable
of comprehending his errors, as his wife was ;
and he could admit the innumerable temptations
to inconstancy which his fortune, his
world, and his disposition combined to make
irresistible and continual to him. Now and
then a man will conquer the world in the heart
of a woman, but never will a woman conquer
the world in the heart of a man. Whatever
it be — the world of pleasure, of ambition, or
of speculation — the passion of it having once
entered his soul will reign there for ever till
his last hour.

It can never be the same thing between a
man and a woman,' thought Vernon. ' She —
if she be a woman young and innocent — she
has a clean bill of moral health, has nothing to
conceal, and nothing that she would hesitate
to confide. But he has and must have fifty
thousand things in his past and present that
are not subjects for confidence ; his life cannot
be narrowed to what is to be told to his wife.
Other women have claims on his silence and
honour : in a word he is a man, and requires a
man's large liberty of action. When moralists
pretend that it should be otherwise they substitute

a conventional fiction which has led
to hopeless pretensions and heartburning
amongst Avoient. Even a lover does not give
for any length of time the same kind of fidelity
that the woman gives to him, though a lover's
fidelity is more stimulated than that of a husband,
more tempted to remain true because
uncertain of its tenure. Dumas fils and many
other writers are fond of pretending that
fidelity should be equal in both sexes, but
they only put forward a wholly untrue and
impossible thesis, and make women wretched
because they incite them to demand what both
nature and law will for ever unite to refuse
them ! '

He was grieved that Gladys was no wiser,
no more magnanimous than the rest. Had* the
education he had given her been in fault?
Had sea and moor, and Latin verse and
Saxon Chronicle, not tended to make her into
stronger stuff than the irrational, egotistical,
and wholly unreasonable temper of the majority
of her sex? Why must she, like them,
take jealousy for devotion, irritation for
passion, offence for dignity, mortification for
martyrdom ?

You surely do not mean that Guilders
would leave you for another woman ? ' he
asked abruptly.

Oh, no,' she answered bitterly. ' He
would neither love nor hate me enough to do
anything of the kind. Why should he do it
either ? He does not think enough about me
for me to be the slightest embarrassment to
him.'

Her father sighed as he heard.
Against indifference the gods themselves
are powerless.

Had Desdemona waked from her murdered
sleep she would have found the tender est and
most penitent of lovers in her jealous lord ; but
the amiable apathy of a careless and unobservant
indifference has no quality in it of that
kind which can be roused and changed into
devotion or remorse.

I think he even likes me ! ' she said with
greater bitterness still. ' I annoy him sometimes
because I am not pliable, or facile,
or amiable enough ; but on the whole he
likes me, and if receiving an innumerable
quantity of presents were happiness I should
be in heaven. What he does not give in



feeling he atones for in furs and jewels and
bibelots ! '

I hope,' said John Vernon gravely, ' that
you do not say this kind of thing to anyone
save to me ? '

No.' She coloured and hesitated : her
nature was full of scrupulous truth, and baseness
distasteful to her. She always told the truth
both in letter and spirit. ' I have sometimes
said something, once or twice, to his cousin,'
she added.

Vernon was surprised.

You mean Lord Aubrey ? *

Yes ; he has seen it for himself. He is
very kind to me.'

I should have thought he had had no
time to spend on a woman's imaginary sorrows.'


They are not imaginary, and he knows
that they are not.'

She was for the first time strongly angered
against her father. He seemed to be unfeeling,
cold, and unjust.

The more real they are the less would
I speak of them — even to Aubrey — were I
you.'

He is not a stranger. He is a near relative
and a dear friend of ours.'

'A very good friend too. But I should
have thought he was sufficiently occupied with
his friend Britannia, who, from having been a
very virtuous housewife in bib and tucker, is
now disposed to unloose her girdle and turn
into a revolutionary msenad, and is troublesome
accordingly.'

He spoke carelessly, for he did not wish
to suggest to her any possible danger in the
intimacy of Aubrey, whom he knew as a man
of high honour and grave and lofty character.
Yet he said more seriously, after a pause, in
which they passed down the long white rose-covered
colonnade which was a favourite haunt
of Guilders's, and where his silken hammock
hung at one end ready for his use if he should
come there :

Still I think it would be well, my love,
not to talk of these things, whether they are
magnified or not by your fancy and feeling,
II y a line pudeur de Vdme. That sounds a
sentimental saying, but there is a truth in it.
Whenever we begin to uncover our soul weare
apt to forget that. We are all apt to lose

that modesty which is after all the chief
beauty of all its emotions. I know quite well
that women have a need to unbosom their
feelings which the rougher natures of men do
not experience. But it is after all a weakness,
a tendency which even they should contend
against, for it is like opium-eating, it increases
with indulgence, and in time saps and destroys
the whole vitality.'

I think you mistake,' said Gladys coldly.
It is not I who confide in anyone. There are
things which speak for themselves, and signs
which all who run may read. The whole
world will not be blind because a man may
wish that it should be so.'

That is true ; but people will not offer us pity
if they think we should take it as an affront, anymore
than they would offer money to a ruined
gentleman if he remained a gentleman still.'

'No one offers me pity,' she replied,
haughtily. ' On the contrary, they, I believe,
share your opinion that because I have made a
head manage I can want nothing more from
earth or heaven ! '

I have never said so, Gladys,' replied her
father with some coldness.

VOL. II. H

She was silent ; conscious that lie had
spoken wrongly ; conscious also that the companionship
of Aubrey was chiefly welcome to
her because, though he never put it into direct
words, he had from the first moment that he
had addressed her, given her the sense that he
did pity her, and understood why she had
reason to be pitied, amidst all which seemed to
the superficial observer the supreme felicities
and success of her lot.

She knew the fineness of her father's penetration
and intuition too well not to be sure
that he must see even as Aubrey saw ; and she
was angered against him that he did not admit
it himself with the indignation which would in
her mood of that moment have been refreshing
to her.

They had come to the end of the long
avenue of white roses ; it was carpeted with
the fallen rose-leaves, and overhead the thick
foliage, starred with the white blossoms, made
the light fall in a green faint twilight about
them.

Let us talk of something else,' said John
Vernon. ' Self-analysis is seductive, and
Goethe benefited the world by his ; but if weare

not Goethe we are apt to become Ober-
man's in the indulgence of it ; and even if
Goethe had less contemplated himself, I for
one should have loved him better. " I have
been listening to what the vines told me," he
said when he was in Italy. I wish he had
listened oftener to the vines and less to " the
immense Me." What a charming morning, my
dear ! How the birds sing, and the leaves
glisten, and the roses smile ! There is so much
in life beside our own passions and pains, if we
could but think of it. " Tant quin arbre
poussera^ ce sera ban de vivre I " Is there nota
certain truth in that ? '

'To a gipsy, or to a poet,' said his
daughter, bitterly. 'When do we have time
to see a leaf come out? We are always
surrounded by faces. Can one see the sea
amongst the crowds on the beach at Biarritz,
or the trees in the woods at Homburg, or the
sunset as we drive home from the Bois ? Of
course the sea is there, and the trees and the
sunset are there ; but to see them in the sense
that you speak of is impossible. One may
have a day like this now and then, twice in the
year perhaps, and then one realises all that one

H 2

misses all the rest of the year; that is all.
What do I see of all this when we are herewith
a great party ? Of course it is all around
us like a decor de scene. But I have no time to
feel it ; there are quantities of things to be
done ; questions of precedence, programmes of
amusement, conversation to make up, toilettes
to be changed incessantly, relays of guests to
be assorted ; of course one feels that the woods
are beautiful, that the gardens are charming,
but one has no leisure to look at them, or to
breathe them in, as it were, as I used to lie
under the orchard trees on a summer afternoon,
and look through their boughs at the moorlands
lying high and purple in the heat ; I
used to notice everything then, from the dragon-fly
in the foxglove to the cloud that meant
rain for the morrow. But now I notice nothing
; I have no time.'

She looked with a sigh through the arched
aisle of the rose-camille.

Vernon echoed her sigh.

And yet, my dear child,' he said, ' I fancy
that if you were still Gladys Vernon living in
my cottage, and there were any other Lady
Guilders reigning here, you would be very

likely to think her lot much brighter and more
brilliant than your own. There is always that
unkind discontent in human life. The monarch
envies the sleep of the cabin-boy, and the
cabin-boy thinks if he were only a king with
no sea-water soaking his shirt, and no black
billows between him and his home ! It is
always so ; it is the rule of existence ; and it
suggests that Plato may be right, and that we
have come from other worlds which are
always haunting us and making us uncomfortable
in this one.'

He spoke lightly, for he wished her to think
her sorrows rather general than individual ; but
his own heart was heavy. It was indeed no
more than he had always predicted and foreseen,
but the realisation of his forebodings did
not console him for them.

She went back to the London life with a
sense of added strength and of restored repose.
The long, quiet summer day, with its smell
from heather-scented lands blowing through
green woodlands and over garden flowers,
seemed to go with her, and leave some of its
peace in her heart.

How safe and secure and easy life seemed

to her, spent by those grey solitary seas, in that
little quiet hollow, under the gorse covered
cliffs where her father's hermitage was made.

Was he right? Would she have been discontented
there as years went on? She did
not think so. At this moment that simple
homely day of country things and country
sights and sounds, seemed to her infinitely
charming in its peace.

CHAPTER Xxii.

When she reached town after her visit to
Ladysrood this day in June, she entered with
a sigh the beautiful Palladian house, with
its glories of art and architecture, its domed
and frescoed staircase, its pomp of powdered
servants, and its sweetness of hothouse flowers,
dimmed by the grey, sad atmosphere of a
sunless London day. The season was at its
height ; every one said that it was brilliant and
delightful ; the park was full of equipages and
the streets full of well-dressed multitudes ; but
to her it seemed dreary as any desert, cruel,
pitiless, hateful. Life in the country was so
much easier, sweeter, safer. All her weight of
pain and jealousy seemed to fall back on her
like a slab of stone as she entered that mansion
which such countless women envied her.

She had only been away three days, but the
accumulation of notes and cards and letters of

all kinds was large. She told them to bring
her some tea to her boudoir, and having slipped
on a teagown made like a sacque of Lady
Mary Worsley Montagu's from a picture at
Ladysrood, she sat there and glanced at her
correspondence. It was just six o'clock ; there
was a large and important dinner for royalty
on her list for that evening, but there were yet
two full hours before she need dress for it. She
drank her tea all alone, gazing at the roses
which she had brought up from Ladysrood in
their baskets of moss, and thinking with a pang
of how the sun was slanting westward over the
moors and the sands of Christslea, and the
little birds were flying amongst the ripening
apples, and the fisheries were rowing over
the pleasant sea, and all the balmy air was
blowing mild and glad through the tossing
lilacs and the bushes of homely southernwood.


If only she had never left these ! How
much happier she would have been, let her
father say w^iat he might !

She sighed Wearily as she breathed the
heavy London air ; heavy even here, where all
that artificial and natural fragrance could do

to sweeten and to lighten it was done. This
beautiful boudoir, with its walls completely
lined by old Saxe china, its ceiling exquisitely
painted with flowers, its windows draped with
lace and cream-coloured satin, seemed to her
like a prison after the moorlands, the orchards,
and the shore. The hearts in which a deep
love of country things is rooted beat ill at
ease in cities.

And yet in the country it had seemed to
her that its silence and its sweetness made pain
harder to bear that when thought was muffled
and stifled under the noise and the follies of
crowds.

Poor human nature, in pain and anxiety, is
like a sick child tossing on his bed, who fancies
now this side and now that will give most rest,
and finds rest on neither side because there is
no rest in himself.

She had not been alone ten minutes before
the servant announced Lord Aubrey.

'Well, dear, so you have been to the
country ? ' he said, taking her hands in his
kindly clasp. ' It is the best medicine for sick
souls, only, alas ! we never have time to take
it, or we dilute it so with a mixture of the

world that all its virtue goes out of it ? How
is your father ? '

He is as well as he ever is,' said Gladys,
and she coloured, for she remembered what her
father had said of Aubrey. ' He said the same
as you did,' she added, after a moment.

I was sure that he would,' answered
Aubrey. 'Think no more of it. Try and
enjoy your youth while you can. I have not
been enjoying my sober manhood at all at
Balmoral. We had five feet of snow on
midsummer day.'

And he told her stories of his stay there,
and touched on matters of foreign policy in
which she had become interested in her attendance
at debates. But he found her pensive
and preoccupied ; she was troubled between
her natural instincts of confidence in him and
the remembrance of her father's warning to
have no friend amongst his sex.

Has Mr. Vernon told you not to put your
trust in me ? ' asked Aubrey, sadly. ' I thought
he knew me better than to do that.'

No, no ; he did not tell me so, indeed !
He knows how noble and how good you are,'
she said with embarrassment. ' But he said

that a woman should not have any friend
except her husband — that was all, and that it
was I who had done wrong to complain to
you.'

'But when her husband does not care to
be even her friend ? ' thought Aubrey bitterly,
as he said aloud : ' I think your father is quite
right in theory, my dear ; quite right as a
general rule. But, to begin with, I am Evelyn's
cousin-german, and am as much interested as
you are in his honour and happiness ; and, in
the second, I am neither a young man nor a
thoughtless one. Your father is not, unhappily,
enough with you to be your adviser in the
world ; and I think I may so far try to supply
his place without doing or saying anything for
which Evelyn would not thank me.'

Oh, what should I do without you ? '

She spoke with warmth and gratitude, and
stretched her hand out to him with a childlike
gesture of confidence.

You would do very well. I daresay. Do
not make me too vain,' said Aubrey, with a
kind smile, as he took her hand, and held it fora
moment only.

Her gesture had displaced some of the

notes and cards lying on a little table at her
side ; they fell in her lap ; as she took one of
them up she gave a little exclamation, and
showed the card to Aubrey. On it was the
double crown of a duchess by marriage who
was a princess in her own right, and under
them was printed ' Duchesse Soria, nee Princesse
Brancaleone.'

Ah ! ' ejaculated Aubrey, off his guard fora
moment. ' How is that card here ? Do you
know her ? '

I was once at her house in Venice. I
suppose she is in London, and called yesterday.
I shall like to meet her again. I think she is
the most beautiful woman I ever saw in all
my life.'

She is certainly very handsome.'

But we never saw her again, as we left
Venice the next day, and I fancied that Evelyn
did not like her.'

Did you ? Why ? '

He was constrained before her ; and he
seemed angry that I admired her.'

Poor little innocent ! ' thought Aubrey.
It will be something more trying to you than
Olive Shiffton now.'

Do you not like her ? ' she asked, wuthering
at his silence.

Like her ? Well, yes. She is very beautiful,
as you say, and, I believe, she is a woman
of originally noble character if she had been
generously dealt with by fate.'

Is she unhappy, too, then ? '

'Her husband was not worthy of her, I
believe ; and I know that she lost a child she
was passionately attached to a few years ago.
But I have only seen her hi the world. I have
no intimacy with her.'

It was very kind of her to think of me,'
said Gladys gratefully. ' I did admire her so
much ; I was so young and so shy ; I felt so
foolish before her.'

Well, the shyness is cured,' said Aubrey,
with his indolent, indulgent smile. ' But the
youth is not quite over as yet, is it? '

I feel very old,' she said with a sigh.

He laughed ; he did not wish to refer
seriously to his last interview with her ; and
he foresaw for her trials much graver than any
which she had passed through as yet.

A few minutes later Guilders entered the
little room. He was looking animated and

interested. He greeted his wife with graceful
courtesy, if with little warmth, and asked, with
much more genuine feeling, of Vernon's health.
Gladys was touched by his tone and pleased
by his entrance ; it was so very rarely that
ever he came there.

Perhaps it is as my father says, a great
deal my fancy and a great deal my fault,' she
thought.

Aubrey soon rose and left them together.
He felt an irritation which it was impossible
for him to display.

He is only so kind,' he thought, ' because
he wants her to receive Beatrice Soria.'

In truth, scarcely had the door closed on
him than Guilders took up the card with the
double crown.

The lady you admired so much in Venice
is here,' he said. ' I asked her to leave this on
you yesterday. Return her call tomorrow.
Show her every deference.'

There was a sound of embarrassment in his
voice ; but she did not notice it. She promised
willingly what he wished.

I thought in Venice that you did not like
her,' she said to him, ' and I admired her so

greatly. You have never seen her since then,
of course ? '

Why, of course ? ' he replied, impatiently.
Because you would have said so,' she
answered in her simplicity.

I have seen her once or twice in Paris,'
said Guilders, with some constraint. 'You
know she has been in retirement. Soria was
killed by another Neapolitan, two years ago,
in a duel.'

And how came you to see her yesterday ? '
I met her in the park.'
This was all true to the letter, but not to the
spirit. But Gladys, however, was not at that
moment critical. She was endeavouring withall
her strength to be agreeable and pliant to
him, as her father had counselled her to be?

That night she saw the Duchess Soria at a
ball at Marlborough House. They renewed
their acquaintance with a pleasure quite genuine
on the one side, if only graciously simulated
on the other.

What did I tell you ? ' said Lady Sunbury
to her cousin Ermyntrude as Mme. Soria, in
all the blaze of her historic diamonds, passed
them with her royal host.

That night Gladys was consoled to see that
her husband scarcely approached Olive Shiffton,
who was present, and who looked very pretty,
and a little angered : the small shooting-star
disquieted by the rising of this great planet
from the south.

Perhaps he is tired of her ; or perhaps it
was never really anything,' she thought, almost
reassured ; and she went home at dawn and
went to sleep almost happily, dreaming of the
quiet waters of the bay by Christslea and the
sound of the fishermen's voices as they pulled
up their cobbles on the beach.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

It was not true certainly,' she said to Aubrey,
a week later. ' You see he never notices her
now, and she looks annoyed. You were right
to make me promise to say nothing.'

Aubrey looked at her with an infinite compassion
which he could not reveal.

It is always best to say nothing, whatever
be the provocation,' he answered. ' These
follies pass. They are beneath notice while
they last. They are butterflies ; you cannot
break them seriously on the wheel of jealousy
and anger.'

They are poisonous butterflies,' said Gladys,
with a sad smile. ' And you know the butterfly
in one stage of its life devours roses and lays
gardens waste.'

I know,' said Aubrey. ' But other roses
come, and the garden grows green again sometime
or another.'

VOL. IT. I

Not always,' she answered.

'No, not always, I admit.'

He was a man who believed in great
passions and great sorrows. He knew that most
passions and most sorrows pass, because most
characters are shallow ; but he knew that there
were exceptional natures, and that these could
never easily find either consolation or oblivion.
For these few in the garden of life, the roses
once dead, few flowers have fragrance.

Olive Shelton had been a mere caprice, a
mere episode ; but such caprices and such
episodes would be repeated ad infinitum in his
cousin's existence. How was it possible to reconcile
Gladys to this, or even to prepare her
for it ? How was it possible even to hint to
her that the cessation of this offence to her was
due to the presence of another woman whose
influence was higher, finer, nobler, but infinitely
more to be dreaded ? Of Olive Shiffton, and
of all those whom she resembled and represented,
Guilders was certain to grow fatigued
and intolerant with time ; but if Beatrice Soria
obtained her power over him again it would befor
long, perchance for life.

But it would have been of no use to suggest

any danger of this sort, even if his delicacy
and honour had permitted him to do so. Fate
is cruel and contradictory enough at all times,
he knew ; but it is often better to let her alone
to do her worst than it is to meddle with what
is vague to us and will surely escape us in our
ignorant handling of it.

With that peculiar self-deception which is
so common even in persons of the quickest
perceptions and intentions, Guilders never
supposed that his marriage appeared otherwise
than most harmonious to the world. He indeed
often went out of his way to do things
which should show that it was so. In his
heart he repented it every hour that he thought
about it at all, but it would have been intolerable
to him to think that his acquaintance ever
suspected he did so. When Ohve Shiffton had
once ventured a jest about it, relying on her
privilege of intimacy, he had silenced her in a
tone which it was impossible for her to mistake.
If he had adored his wife he could not
have been more reverential to her name before
others than he was.

Sometimes I think he is fond of her after
all,' said Ermyntrude Longleat to her brother,

I 2

on hearing the story of his rebuff to Mrs.
Shiffton as it went the round of society.

No ; he is not fond of lier not in the
least,' replied Aubrey. ' But he has that
sentiment that his wife is part of his own
dignity, of his own honour, which so long survives
all attachment, and exists even where no
attachment ever was, because it is a form of
personal vanity. He may slight her himself,
but he will let no one else slight her; that
is not a matter of the affections, but of self-love
and of family pride. It is the same
kind of sentiment which he has for Ladysrood,
though Ladysrood fer se bores him to extinction.'


He deserves to lose both Ladysrood and
his wife.'

Ah, my dear ! if we all had only what we
deserve Ave should be most of us very ill off ! '

The season went on its course and closed
without Gladys being rudely awakened from
this last illusion. Many saw indeed what an
utter illusion it was, but no one had brutality
enough to rouse her from it, and show her
how utterly she was self-deceived.

She only saw that Guilders had grown

wholly indifferent to the seductions of Olive
Shiffton, and was now never seen beside her.
It was not sufficient to make her happy, but
it relieved her from her keenest and most
harassing anxiety, and she never dreamed that
it was the presence of another woman, and
not any mercifulness to herself, which made
Guilders almost rudely neglect and ignore his
late diversion.

One glance of inquiring scorn from the
lustrous eyes of Beatrice Soria, as they had
passed slowly in review the attractions and the
pretensions of Olive Shiffton, had been enough
to make him feel ashamed of ever having felt
the sorcery of those inferior and venal charms.
He had no emotion so keen as his dread lest
any gossip of the town shoidd reveal to' the
Duchess Soria the frivolous story of his latest
intrigue. His feeling for the colonial adventuress
had been so entirely awakened by
physical attractions, had been so absolutely
void of any kind of higher feeling, or any
shadow of esteem, that it became very rapidly
distaste or dislike the moment he felt that
it might imperil for him the regard and the
patience of the only woman he had ever loved.

For he knew now that Beatrice Soria held
a place in his passions and emotions that no
other woman had ever reached. She was
lost to him, or he believed her lost to him,
through his own fault, his own levity ; but for
that very reason his whole soul turned to her
as the sunflower to the sun that sets.

He had met her often since the evening in
Venice ; but, though he had been frankly admitted
to her presence, and treated with friendship
and kindness, he had never as yet been
able to pass those outer courts ; he had never
been able to recover any one of the forfeited
privileges of the past ; he had never been able
to tell whether she loved him, hated him, or
was wholly indifferent to him. All that he
could see was that, to all appearance, no one
had succeeded him in her affections. The
world coupled no one's name with hers, and
there was no one of her large circle who could
in any way claim any distinction above the
rest. That was all which he had been able to
ascertain or to divine when he had been in her
society in Paris or in Italy ; it was all he could
tell now that she was in his own English
world of fashion, and renewed her acquaintance

with him and with his wife with all the
pleasant welcome due to lionnes connaissances
in society.

The mystery, and what was to him the
mortification, of his ignorance of the feelings of
a woman who had been once as wax to his
hands and as flame to his passions, occupied
him and attracted him to the exclusion of
almost every other thought.

He had not known what he had felt when
he had heard of the death of Hugo Soria, ina
duel with another Neapolitan. He could not
still be sure whether he felt regret at his powerlessness
to replace him, or relief that it had
been made impossible that he should do so.
He was conscious that it must increase tenfold
his own offence against the survivor. Who
could ever have foreseen so premature a death,
for a man young, fortunate, and singularly
skilled in all arts of attack and defence ? To
him it had always seemed probable that Soria
would long outlive himself.

He had seen nothing of her since her
husband's tragic end ; two years had gone by,
and it was understood that she was adhering
to the strictest rules of mourning and retreat.

Eumour said also, that she had received a
severe shock, when in the gay, roseate, sunshine
of Naples, after a ball, the dead body of Soria,
with a blood-stained cloak thrown over his face,
had been carried into her presence by the masked
bearers of a religious fraternity. She had
known nothing of the duel, and was crossing
the vestibule to go to her own apartments when
the terrible procession came in sight across the
sunlight of the marble colonnade. Guilders
could see the scene as though he had been
present at it ; the marble arches of the loggia,
with the blue sea and the blue sky shining
beyond them, the warm, rose-hued light of
sunrise streaming hi from the gardens, and,
glowing in the warmth, the figure of her in
her ball-dress and her jewels, pausing in the
fascination of terror as the black-robed bearers
approached with their burden ; he could see it
all as though he had been there ; he never
thought of it without a shudder, and he strove
to think of it as little as he could.

Two years had gone by since that time, and
she had returned to the world. He had seen
her twice or thrice, and had found her more
beautiful than she had ever been. If her

thoughts reproached hin for his marriage, her
lips never did.

We will not speak of Hugo she had
said to him when he first met her, and strove
to say something, he knew not what, of conventional
regret. But these were the only words
of the least familiarity which ever escaped
her towards him, and whether she forgave
his own faithlessness to her, or whether she
resented it too deeply for all words, he, with all
his penetration into the souls of women, could
not tell. Anyhow Soria was dead, and she was
once more free : with her immense personal
fortune, her marvellous charm, her great social
reputation, and her irresistible power over
men, could now be wooed, possibly won by
any living man except himself.

When he recalled the words of his letter
of farewell, his cheeks grew red with shame ;
what could such a woman as she have thought
of him when he had abandoned her like
any courtezan, hired and dismissed ? Perhaps
she had despised him too absolutely even to
honour him by resentment ? He could not
tell. Her manner to him remained wholly
what it had been in the Palazzo Contarini ;

within view of their past relations, such a
manner could be but a cloak ; but whether what
it covered were tenderness or hatred, reproach
or offence too indelible for reproach, he could
not tell, only he knew that with her it could
not be indifference ; that was wholly impossible
to her whole character.

What motive had brought her to England ?
True, she was a great lady, ached by friendship
and even by blood with many English
families, but he felt that she did not come to
his country without some intention personally
touching himself.

They were in the same world ; they must
meet again and again even if neither sought to
meet ; he could not credit that it was either
mere caprice, or mere accident, which had
brought her to grace the last weeks of the
London season with her courted presence.

He had gone to pay her homage, he had
been admitted with many others, he had had
no word or glance which distinguished him
from her other acquaintance ; but he had felt
the old thrill which her voice awakened in him ;
he was conscious of the old delirious charm
with which she moved him, and life became

for him filled once more with romantic and
agitated interest.

She is the only woman whom I ever loved,'
he had thought as he left her that day.

He wished his right hand had been cut off
before it could have ever written that brutal
and ineffaceable letter of adieu. And being a
man of the world, he had said to his wife on his
return, ' Call on the Duchess Soria : show her
every deference.'

That in wishing her to go there he was
transgressing against those unwritten rules of
custom and social habits by which men of the
world are more often governed than by any
laws, social or moral, he knew well enough,
but it did not affect him. His mind and his
feelings were so centred for the time on the
woman whom he had lost, that he was insensible
to any other sentiment. To have Beatrice
Soria once more beside him in the rose
gardens of Ladysrood as in the years gone by,
he would have sacrificed much ; at times he
thought that he would sacrifice anything. Thereat
last he could find some occasion to learn
whether he were, or not, wholly exiled from
that soul in which he had once reigned alone.

To believe, as he was forced to believe, that
she had grown wholly indifferent to him was
the first humiliation in matters of the heart
which he had ever suffered. He knew that he
had deserved his fate, and had brought it on
himself ; but this knowledge only increased the
bitterness of his mortification, and the keenness
of his anxiety to penetrate the mystery of her
feeling towards him.

What does she think of me ? ' was the
wonder incessantly recurrent to this thoughts.
She baffled all Ins desires to learn, as effectually
as she had done so in Venice. Ever since he
had written that fateful letter in the library at
Ladysrood he had never heard, or received from
her, one syllable beyond the serene and colourless
phrases of an ordinary social intimacy.

The memory of his whole relations with
her might have faded out into absolute oblivion
for any trace that she gave of seeing in him
anything beyond any other of the many acquaintances
and admirers who flocked to greet
her on her arrival in London.

He seemed forgotten as utterly as no doubt
Hugo Soria was forgotten, lying in the mausoleum
amongst the roses and cypress at Sorrento.

Meanwhile to his wife he was kind. He
was grateful to her for her sincere and frankly
expressed admiration of her great rival, and
he was touched, even whilst he betrayed them,
by the unconsciousness and confidence which she
showed. After all, perhaps she was becoming
facile, he thought ; after all she had certainly
many lovely qualities.

Curiously enough the influences which most
drew his feelings away from her yet made
him so far sensible of her merits that he
saw more of her and spoke more to her than
he had done for months ; and she, attributing
the change in him to his rupture with Olive
Shiffton, was both unsuspicious and almost
happy. Perhaps after all, she thought, her
father was right ; and the silent patience and
constancy of absolute devotion might have
power over him at the last.

Aubrey, of course, saw her pathetic error ;
but though his pity for it wrung his own
heart, he was too loyal to his cousin and too
merciful to her to breathe any hint which
could suggest to her the truth. There was
nothing in the manner of Beatrice Soria to
hint it to her. She lead been always too

great a lady to tolerate the coarseness of the
exhibition of passion in society, and even at
the time when Guilders's power over her had
been strongest, she had never chosen that the
world should be able to read their secret in
their public attitude. Lie left such vulgarities
to such women as Olive Shifted, less certain of
their influence and more eager to display their
dominion than was she. ' When you are sure
yourself, what matters who doubts? ' she thought
now ; she was herself wholly conscious that
Guilder oy would obey her slightest sign whenever
she chose to make one, as the hawk obeys
the cry of the falconer. She was in no haste to
make it. She had been deserted, humiliated,
betrayed ; she was not yet certain whether she
hated him or forgave him.

Time will tell me,' she thought, with that
strange coldness of patience which runs side by
side with the fervours and ardours of the passions
in all blood of southern races.

Meantime she called all her wit, intelligence,
and beauty to her aid, and obtained with them
so great a success in this English world of his
that all which the consciousness of other men's
admiration of what he had abandoned-could

add to his regrets was added to stimulate revived
desires. No hand could ' throw the
sulphur ' with more perfect skill and sorcery
than hers. For the most potent of all her
charms was that, beneath all the bland arts of
seduction and all the polished powers of a
woman of the world, there were the richness
and the warmth and the unwise impulses of the
heart still living and beating if anyone had
power to make them live and beat for him.

CHAPTER Xxviii.

One day Aubrey found himself alone beside
Beatrice Soria at a garden party at Sion House.
They had walked on together under the trees
until no one was close to them, and the river
was before them.

We see you so seldom in this idle world,
Lord Aubrey,' she said in her beautiful and
mellowed English.

Public life is a hard mistress,' replied
Aubrey. ' She is always saying of one in her
jealousy : —

Quod si forte alios jam nunc suspirat adores,
Tunc, precor, insides, sancti, retinue cocos.'

She is more unreasonable, then, than other
women are in our day, whatever they were in
Tibullus's,' said the Duchess Soria. She was
herself fond of the classics, and learned in them
like Tullia Arragon, and Victoria Colonia.



You have no good metrical translation of the
Elegies, or the Songs, in English, have you ? '

Alas, no,' said Aubrey. ' I often wonder
they have tempted no poet. John Vernon,
though no poet, has made, I think, versions of
a fevv^.'

Who is John Vernon ? Ah, to be sure,
I remember. He is a great scholar and very
charming, is he not ? '

I think you would like him. He is not of
our Lime. He reminds one of those studious
and lettered gentlemen who lived in the quiet
of the country in the days of the Georges, and
were content as none of us contrive to be
content. How do you like his daughter ? '

Lady Guilders ? '

Yes ; Gladys, as we call her. What do
you think of her ? '

The Duchess Soria answered with bland
praise. She was a mistress in that delicate art ;
she never said too much, but the little she said
was sweet as the south wind, and never commonplace.
In a few slight sentences she
showed Aubrey that she saw the character
of Guilders 's wife with perfect justice and
accuracy.

VOL. II. K

Perhaps she is a little too grave for her
years. Men are not fond of gravity, though it
is a quality so safe,' she added with a smile.

I do not think she is by nature grave,'
said Aubrey. 'The world oppresses her.
There are natures which suffer in it; suffer
from its basaltes its artifices, its intrigue, its
necessities for dissimulation.'

Perhaps,' said his companion. ' But when
the world is always with us it is better to be
interested in it. Like whist, it will amuse our
old age when our passions are mere pall-bearers
of a corpse.'

But there are those who can never feel
that interest. She is one of them. What is
she to do ? '

She is in love with her husband,' said
Beatrice Soria, with a delicate intonation of
scorn. ' When that passes '

It will not pass.'

^ Oh, my dear lord ! '

I am convinced that it will not.'

'You are very cruel to him. He will not
be grateful.'

'No, he will not, unless -' Aubrey

paused and turned to her with a look which

said more than his words — 'unless you,
Duchess, who have more influence over him
than any one, would tell him that he should
be so.'

I ! '— the word was a haughty refusal in
itself.

You disappoint me,' murmured Aubrey.
You have so much power, if you would only
have as much mercy.'

My dear lord, that is not my role. One
cannot preach what one has never practised ;
one cannot advocate what one does not believe
in. I have no belief in conjugal happiness.
I believe in the joys of the passions,
I believe in the pleasures of vanity, I believe
in the consolation of children, and I believe
perhaps — in the sweetness of vengeance.
But in these alone. Lady Guilders will,
no doubt, have all these consolations and pleasures.
If she require her husband's fidelity
also she will be disappointed. No doubt she
will be at first disappointed very much. But
she will also no doubt find out quod pent
s' en passer '

You are cruel to her,' said Aubrey, with a
sigh.

k2

My dear lord,' said Beatrice Soria, ' men
wish women to behave to them with sultry
heat of passion when they want passion, and
with perfect absence of passion when they
have ceased to want it. They require the
tropics one hour, the poles the next. They
want fire out of ice ; when they have effected
the transformation they wish the fire to become
ice again. Now men are not gods that by the
mere exercise of their caprice they can bring
about these changes. On the contrary, they
ask for such impossibilities and contradictions
that they very often make of a woman who
was tender, and malleable, and generous before,
a very devil, because they have put the devil
of pain and injustice into her. Then they are
exceedingly surprised at the issue of their
work, and if the evil ' they have created out of
good hurts them themselves they are angry, and
cry out, for they are children, and bad children
: spoilt, selfish, and unkind, never to be
trusted out of sight, and always cruel wherever
they are loved.'

She spoke with force and warmth and
scorn. Her voice was low, but in the mellow
and thrilling tones of it there was a concentration

of all the indignity, the suffering, the
humiliation, disdain, and wrath which had
been held in silence in her soul ever since the
day that she had received Guilders.

She knew that Aubrey was aware of her
past relations with his cousin. Circumstances
had made him their confidant in the early days
of their intimacy ; and he had been always
on such terms with her as had permitted him
some frank expressions of his thoughts. But
here he felt that his words had been wasted.
She was not a woman to be moved by entreaty
or suggestion from any desire or intention of
her own.

Aubrey raised his hat and turned away as
others approached and occupied her attention.

Certainly he behaved very ill to her,' he
thought ; and then the paucity and insufficiency
of such poor, trite, commonplace words to express
the unutterable, ineffaceable, affront which
Guilders had passed upon such a woman as
she was, seemed to him like a renewed insult
to her. Why should she show any clemency ?
None had been shown to her.

And yet he thought one might move her
still by her heart if one dared to appeal to it.

But he felt that he could not presume to seek
to learn what she felt, whether of hatred or of
love, to the man by whom she had been forsaken.


That the wound given her was still unhealed
he knew by the profound and mingled
emotions with which she had spoken.

Her lover had killed much in her which
had been generous, tender, and magnanimous.
He had inflicted on her a wound into which all
her best feelings and instincts had sunk, as
treasure founders in a deep sea. If he suffered
in time for the injury he had done, whose fault
would it be ? Not hers, surely.

Beatrice Soria glanced after him as she
spoke with her other acquaintances.

A man and a gentleman,' she thought,
and a true friend. But how like an Englishman,
to have no better way of trying to gain a
point than to ask for it ! '

CHAPTEE XXIX.

You have invited Mme. Soria ? ' asked
Guilders, looking over his wife's list for the
house parties.

I had not thought of it,' said Gladys.
Will she care to come ? '

I heard her express a wish to see the
English vie de chateau' replied Guilders.
Ask her, at any rate. Ask her in person.
I am sure she will not refuse you.'

I will try,' said Gladys.

And she took an early occasion to d© so
when they met at the last Drawing-room of
the season. Beatrice Soria did not reply for a
moment; a faint smile came on her beautiful
mouth. Gladys wondered of what she was
thinking. The next moment she accepted the
invitation conditionally ; it was possible she
would not be in England ; if she were she
would be happy to come to Ladysrood for a day
or two.

I am very glad,' said Gladys in her unconsciousness.
' Pray do not forsake England
so soon. Lord Guilders is so very anxious
that you should honour us in the country.'

Lord Guilders is always so amiable,'
replied the Duchess Soria. ' And when his
ambassadress is one so irresistible as his wife,
his wishes are always certain to be crowned
with success.'

'• When she says those graceful things so
beautifully, does she mean them, do you
think ? ' asked Gladys when she recounted
the result of her mission to Guilders on her
return from Court that day.

My dear child,' said Guilders with impatience,
' what a very childlike question !
One would think you were on the cliffs at
Christslea still ! Who ever does mean anything
that they say in this world ? These
pretty things are the mother-of-pearl counters
with which one plays the game of society ; who
has the most of them wins the game. Surely
you know that by this time.'

I should be sorry to think it was only
that,' she said wistfully. ' I should like her
to like me.'

Of course, lie does like you ; she has told
me so,' said Guilders with some irritation.
'People would always like you if you were
more pliant, more amused, more good-natured.
Oh, I know you are goodness itself to all your
poor people, and that you are very often doing
very kind things even in society, for I hear of
them. But that is not the amiability I mean.
When we do a favour, nine times out of ten we
make a foe instead of a friend, for there are
very few natures which a sense of obligation
does not sour. The amiability which is successful
is the knack of saying things gracefully,
of seeming interested when we are bored, of
seeming to approve when we disapprove, to
agree when we disagree, to make the most
uninteresting stranger believe that he is the
salt of the earth to us : that is what social
amiability means, and you never attempt to
acquire it.'

It is hypocrisy,' said Gladys, with scorn in
her eyes.

It is nothing of the kind. Hypocrisy
intends to deceive. Social amiability knows
that it deceives nobody — at least nobody who
has any knowledge of the world — but it avoids

friction, it polishes, and softens, and soothes ;
it gives every one a vague sense of hien-etre^
and diffuses an agreeable atmosphere. That
is what you have not, and I fear never will
have. You are tres-grande dame ; that I
quite grant ; but you have modelled yourself
too much on my sister, and have imbibed her
unfortunate ideas that to be virtuous and truthful
it is primarily necessary to be what Sunbury
calls "infernally disagreeable." It is not my
language — it is his, and I ought to apologise
for quoting it — but it is really so inimitably
descriptive ! '

Gladys coloured with indignation. She
knew that she was wholly and utterly unlike
Hilda Sunbury in every opinion and quality ;
she knew that in comparing her to his sister
he compared her to what he considered the
most unsympathetic and uncompanionable of
her sex ; she knew that she had just been
doing her uttermost to please him and to succeed
in her mission to the Duchess Soria ; and
she felt unbearably and intolerably wronged
by the injustice of his censures and the contemptuous
impatience of his tone.

I do not think that you have any right

to speak to me in such a manner as that,' she
said in a voice which shook slightly yet was
very firm. ' I know that you prefer every
other woman in society to me ; but your indifference
should not warp you into injustice
and discourtesy. I knew nothing of the world
when I married you ; I have tried to learn all
that I could, and the lesson is hard, or I am
stupid. I have not the pliancy and facility of
the ladies who are your friends ; but I must
ask you to remember one thing — it was not I
who ever sought you, and my father again
and again in vain endeavoured to dissuade you
from your marriage with me.'

Before he had recovered from his astonishment
sufficiently to answer her she had
gathered her train over her arm, bowed to
him, and left him.

CHAPTEE XXX.

He had been silent from sheer astonishment at
the passionate outburst of one whom he had
always considered physically cold and mentally
unperceptive.

It was a scene : it was not the first which
had taken place between them, but it was the
most embittered. There were words in it which
stung his conscience, and there were other
words which awakened his anger. His very
sense that there was a great deal of justice in
her reproaches made them the more unwelcome
to him. He had thought her unimpassioned,
he had even lauded her and been glad
that she should be so ; and he saw for the first
time that deep down in her soul, under the
silence of pride and the ignorance of habit,
there were strong and embittered feelings.

He knew women and the world too intimately
not to know all that the existence of

this feeling might mean in time for himself.
He was a man too sensitive to the world's comments
and too intolerant of publicity and interference
not to see with the gravest apprehensions
the possible approach of his wife's entrance
into that stage of suspicion and of irritation
which usually precedes and produces an exposure
to the world of disunion. He knew that
he had only himself to blame ; he knew that a
little more consideration for her, a little more
demonstration of affection on his part, would
have sufficed to shut the eyes and lull the
soul of so young a woman. He had believed
her cold ; he had let her drift away
from him, content indeed that she should do
so ; but he had never supposed either that she
had felt his neglect so strongly or would ever
express her sense of it so openly. The mere
thought of a future in which such scenes were
possible alarmed him beyond words. Of all
things he prized peace, freedom, and apparent
harmony.

When once they are jealous ! ' he thought
with a shudder — the shudder of a man who
has passed through a thousand scenes of invective
and reproach in penalty of his pleasures.

Was it possible, he wondered, that she
was jealous of Beatrice Soria ? Had any one
told her the story of his past ?

With the yearning remembrance of that
one name of magic, he left his house and
went where he often went at this hour. It
was five o'clock. She was most days to be
found at home then, adhering to her indolent
Italian habit of never leaving the house till
sunset.

The London world was at her feet, and
delighted to wait on her. All that was choicest
in it had received her gracious hospitality in
her own residence at Naples and at Paris, and
had many charming memories for which to be
grateful of moonlit-garden fetes at the beautiful
Sorrento villa, and dinners of delightful
gaiety and wit in her house in the Avenue
du Bois de Bologna. All that London could
offer to her — and it is very much when it is in
the mood — it offered in return. The staircase
of her hotel was as thronged as the staircase of
Buckingham Palace on the evening of a State
ball.

She had one of the suite of rooms which
are given to royal persons ; she had had them

filled with hothouse plants and flowers. The
London mists and rain were disgusting things to
her ; she strove to forget them as well as she
could in the green twilight of palm leaves and
the delicate glories of orchids.

He found her apartments thronged ; it was
known that she was often to be found at this
hour. Princes and ministers, ambassadors and
ambassadresses, wits and elegant and dandies,
all that was most agreeable, exalted, and exclusive
in English society were there to do her
homage. He was only one in a crowd of great
people, most of them greater than he. He
remembered with a bitter pang the time when,
for his sake, her doors had been closed to all
comers.

Voila le passe de la Duchesse,' he heard a
diplomatist smilingly say with a glance at him
as he passed. ' Qui sera son avenir 1 '

The jest made him irritated and mortified.
He had been her past indeed ! — her all in all,
her one exclusive thought, her dream, her
empire, her heaven. He had been all that,
and he had tired of being it, ingrate that he
was ! Who would be as much to her future ?
Any one ?

All that baser quality of men's love which
is stimulated and strengthened by the spur of
social jealousies and the sight of social successes
in the one beloved, all that element which is
compounded of vanity, emulation, and admiration
increased by the world's admiration, all
moved in him, intensified besides by the state
of anger and offence against his wife in which
he had come thither. Never, in the earliest
hours of his adoration for her, had he believed
himself so passionately the lover of Beatrice
Soria as he felt that he was now capable of
becoming. And she had nothing in return for
him except the touch of a soft cool hand, the
welcome of a sweet bland smile, the wit of
brilliant and polished phrases, all which all
others there enjoyed ; all, and no more than
that. Never since the evening when he had
seen her in the Palazzo Contarini had he before
felt so passionately all that he had thrown
away in surrendering, of his own free will, his
right to the first place in her presence and in
her thoughts.

He had thought her chain too closely
fastened on him, and he had cast it off in a
moment of impatience and fatigue ; but now

he felt that there were no dust and ashes of
humiliation which he would not eat if he
could only by them once more gain the right
to kneel at her feet and to become hers once
more. He arrived with the crowd and he was
dismissed with it. Never once in all the times
that they had met had she allowed him any
solitary moment with her. He had surrendered
his right to any ; he had to learn that such
rights could not be resumed at will.

Meanwhile, no sooner had his wife been
left alone, than she had grown conscious of
how she had sinned against all her promises
to Aubrey and all the counsels of her father.
She knew that she had lost patience at the
very moment when patience would perhaps
have rewarded her, and forgotten both wisdom
and prudence in the more selfish pain of
offended pride.

She had said nothing which was not true ;
but there are truths which must never be
uttered if union and the peace of the future
are desired. The very force and indisputable
justice of such truth must constitute, she knew,
the heaviest accusation and reproach against
him. She had set a guard over her lips

VOL. II. L

through so many trying moments only to fail
at the first word which had mortified her.

With the tears streaming down her cheeks
she wrote and confessed her fault to her father.

I am nothing to him, I know,' she wrote ;
but why must he so often tell me so ? If he
would let me return and live with you I would
do so, and would not complain. But that he
would not like, because it would compromise
him before the world.'

And then she tore the letter up, and did
not send it, lest it should trouble the peace of
the solitary of Christslea.

A little later she had to repress, as best
she could, everything she felt, and go out to
a great dinner. The dinner was followed by
two or three receptions, at which she had to be
seen. She did not look well ; she was very
pale, and her eyelids were swollen.

How heavy your eyes are,' said Aubrey,
meeting her for a moment that evening in the
crowd of a great house. ' Tell me the truth,
dear. Has anything fresh happened .^ '

Nothing fresh,' said Gladys bitterly, ' only
what I ought to be well used to ; what will
never alter as long as I five.'

No mortal can say that,' answered Aubrey.
There is nothing really hopeless except death.
Whilst a person we love lives we should always
deem ourselves happy.'

I love no one,' she said, in a tone which
was almost sullen.

'It is worse than I thought if you have
ceased to do so,' he said gravely. ' But it is
not so. You deceive yourself.'

They were no longer alone, and he had
no answer, nor could he tell from any change
in her face whether she had been moved
by his words. His heart ached to see that
mask of almost sullen indifference and apathy
worn on her young features. To what extremity
might not love which was deserted,
and youth which was unhappy, be driven half
in despair and half for sake of vengeance r He
would not point out the way to vengeance,
but other men would. Though her apparent
coldness and her contemptuous inattention to
them chilled and daunted many of her wooers,
yet there were others whom such repulse attracted.
She lived in a society and in an age
where fidelity is ridiculed or received with incredulity,
and wherein compensations and 



donations go hand in hand, and are rarely refused.
How long would she be without learning
the lesson which everything conspired to teach
her ? She might learn it soon, she might learn
it late ; but learn it some time or other she
would assuredly. Has not Ovid said that
Helen, being left alone, was innocent of any
fault ? Eleven ego crime solve.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

The essay on Friendship had been finished,
and had found its way into print in a famous
review, though its Writer declared it a mere
spurious and worthless offspring of the Lysis.
Guilders had on more than one occasion
amused himself with casting his thoughts on
paper, and the world assured him that he
might attain eminence in letters if he cared todo
so. But he considered this flattery; and,
even had it been true, he would have considered
it far too much trouble to obey its suggestion.

Aubrey read the essay when it appeared,
and approved of it.

Only allow me to say, my dear Evelyn,'
he observed one summer day at Ladysrood,
when they were alone on the terrace, ' that
it is odd that any man who has such admirable
theories as yours, should go so utterly
against them in practice as you do. I know

no living person who is so little heedful of
the feelings of others, or so little constant in
his own feelings, as yourself. Pray forgive me
the remark. I am no doubt leaving good
manners outside the temple of intimacy m
presuming to make it.'

You are quite welcome to make it, and no
doubt it is true enough,' said Guilders, who
nevertheless was not pleased. ' I see how
things ought to be ; I do not pretend to make
them what they ought. I do not think that I
am a false friend, as you imply I '

I do not think you are a friend at all,'
said Aubrey. ' You do not care about men's
friendship, and with women you have, if you
remark them at all, something much warmer
than friendship. But what I meant to convey
is that, despite your admirable knowledge of
the sensitiveness of the human soul, and of
what is due to it in intimacy, you entirely
neglect observance of those duties.'

What do you mean ? ' said Guilders, a
little annoyed.

What I say,' replied Aubrey. ' You know
the duties of a sympathetic friend, but I fear
you never fulfil them.'

We are not bound to put our theories into
practice. If we were, authors would be a race
apart ; the missing ink between man and the
angels.'

Yes, I suppose no writer ever did, except
Socrates, and he got poisoned for his consistency.'


And he was not a writer, by your leave,
my dear scholar ; only a teacher.'

True ; but really, Evelyn, your theories
are so charming that you should attempt to
carry them out in your own life, and perhaps
you would be the happier for doing so ; egotism
is tempting, but it is not always so happy as it
looks.'

'I am not more of an egotist than most
men,' said Guilders, moved to a certain irritation.
Aubrey raised his eyebrows.

In what way am I ? ' asked Guilders,
with petulance. ' Pray let us speak as if
we were at the bottom of her well with
Truth.'

With all my heart, but Truth, like most
ladies, will probably move us to quarrel about
her.'

Oh, no ; pray continue.'

Well, have you ever lived for anybody,
except yourself, in your life ? '

'For a little while I did,' said Guilders
honestly ; and he sighed, for he was thinking
of the first period of his love for Beatrice Soria.

'Oh, no, you did not even then,' said
Aubrey, who knew what the sigh and the answer
meant. ' It was all self-indulgence, almost all
love is ; at least when it is victorious.'

How can you divorce self and the passions
? '

Not easily, I admit.'

Aubrey was silent a moment, then he said
suddenly :

Will you allow me to ask you one thing ?
Do you think your wife is happy ? '

Guilders's face flushed slightly.

She is not a happy disposition,' he said
evasively. ' The world does not amuse her.
Then she has lost two children ; and she has
very over wrought expectations.'

Of you ? '

Of me, of human nature, of life in general.
Because her father has the virtues of a saint
and a solitary, she expects every man to be a
Saint Jerome or a Basil.'

Between Jerome and Basil, and Lovelace
and Wilder, there is considerable room for
something else ; they are at the two ends of
the ladder of human desires.'

She sees nothing between the saint and the
profligate.'

• A woman usually only sees extremes. But
I do not believe she knows anything about
profligacy, and I think you could easily make
her happy if you chose.'

My dear Aubrey ! ' cried his cousin with
much impatience. ' If there is a parrot phrase
which is absolutely senseless, it is that about
making a woman happy ! She is happy, and
you are happy in her happiness, and your own,
spontaneously, sans chercher ni vouloir, just fts
birds are in the summer woods ; and there is
no happiness at all for either of you. Happiness
is not a kind of pastry that you mix and
roll out and put in the oven till it is done to a
turn. It is an immense pleasure, born out of
heaven knows what, half of the senses and
half of the soul, but no more to be stabled
or harnessed than Guido's coursers that run
with Aurora. Happiness elaborately invade
would not be happiness ; it would bear the

traces of effort, and would be utterly without
charm.'

Nevertheless in your essay you admit that
friendship is a delicate plant, which requires
fitting atmosphere and culture ; so also is love
surely ; neither will resist neglect.'

Are you speaking of love ? I thought you
were speaking of my wife,' said Guilders in that
tone of indolent insolence, which was often his
shield when he did not choose to be questioned.

Aubrey rose and did not reply. He did
not care to continue the argument in that
tone ; and he feared that he should say too
much if he said anything more.

Why should you be angry ? ' said Guilders.
' She might be if she were here. I assure
you it is the only word of disparagement which
I have ever permitted myself about her. She
is exceedingly handsome ; she is immaculately
good ; and she is the daughter of the man I
most respect upon earth. But all these excellent
things do not make up happiness. Happiness
is the child of harmony, who the Greeks
tell us was the child of Eros.'

Aubrey remained silent ; he felt more anger
in him than he wished to betray.

'You slioiild have married her, not I,'
continued his cousin. ' You would have suited
her most admirably. You would have buried
yourselves in the northern mists at Balfrons,
and a Blue-book would have occasionally visited
you as your only oiseaii bleu''

You certainly should not have ever married
at all,' said Aubrey, who did not care for those
jests. ' Catullus puts Eros and Hymen in the
same strophe, but no one else ever succeeded
in doing so.'

And he did not do it in practice, only inverse,'
said Guilders.

Hush, she is coming to us,' said Aubrey,
as he saw the tall and slender form of the
mistress of Ladysrood approaching the terrace
on which they were sitting ; the old grey stone
terrace of the west front, of which the buttresses
and flights of steps were half smothered in
Virginia creeper and banksia.

Guilders rose, and, with that graceful
courtesy which he never neglected, took off his
hat, and gave her his seat, which was the most
comfortable of all the lounging-chairs there.
He stayed a moment or two speaking of trifles,
and then went away. She looked after him

wistfully. She would have preferred less elaborate
courtesy, and more of his time.

I am afraid I have disturbed him,' she said
with apprehension.

Not in the least ; we were just going away,'
said Aubrey, hastily, as he thought, ' Good
heavens ! is he bored if he has to talk to her
for ten minutes ? And yet if she were anyone
else's wife, he would spend whole years
at her feet I am certain.'

For that one August day he was alone with
them. On the morrow some half-hundred of
fashionable people were to arrive and bring
their London and Paris life into the green
gardens and old walls of Ladysrood, which
always seemed to its chatelaine in discord with
them. But it was only by having the world
with him there that G uilderoy could be induced
to pass some of the late summer or early
autumn months at home. He loved the place
in his own way, but life in it wearied him more
since his marriage than it had done before,
when he had been able to bring with him any
questionable preferences of the moment or else
stay there in that complete solitude which at
rare intervals soothed and pleased him.

Aubrey looked at her where she reclined in
the long low chair. She wore a white wool
gown without ornament of any sort. Her
figure was still very slender, but her bosom was
full, and her arms were rounded, her shining
hair hung in loose waves over her forehead and
was coiled behind in heavy masses fastened with
a gold comb.

How strange it seemed to him that his
cousin should pass his life in almost absolute
indifference to her ! The vision which Guilders
had in jest put before him of a happiness
which might have been possible for himself
made his eyes dim for a moment as he gazed
at her. But he quickly banished so enervating
a fancy, and spoke to her.

I wish,' he said with hesitation, ' that you
could interest yourself more in the life which
goes on around you. I know you do not care
for it ; your early life unfitted you for it,
but it would be well if you could simulate
some enjoyment of it ; you would become
more popular and Evelyn would be better
pleased.'

Popular ! ' she repeated with the accent of
some young duchess of the eighteenth century

to whom some one should have counselled
remembrance of the mob.

I think it is quite disgraceful,' she added,
the way in which all society, with princes at
its head, courts popularity nowadays. I should
never have supposed you would have cared
for it.'

My dear child, princes feel their thrones
slipping from under them ; they catch at any
straw. But I did not mean popularity for you
in any low sense of the word. I meant that
you would be more generally liked, and so
more able to exercise the kind of influence
which you would wish to possess. When
society is aware that you think it a flock of
geese, it revenges itself by hissing loudly behind
your back.'

It is welcome to do so.'

Ah ! that tone is just what I complain of;
it is too cynical, it is too unsympathetic ; you
are too young to use it. When the worst is
said of it, there remains a great deal that is
interesting and profitable to study in society,
and when you know that Guilders is always
anxious that you should be admired and liked,
I do not consider that you ought to shut yourself

up in a shell of apparent ill-humour, which
is not really in any way your nature.'

I think it is becoming my nature.'

God forbid ! I hope you will soon have
other children with whom you can play on the
lawns yonder, and be a child again yourself.
Then you will forgive society, which is after all
only a very sick and fro ward child itself, and
breaks all its playthings.'

Her face clouded, and she did not reply ;
her brows were drawn together in a frown, half
sullenness, half sadness, as she looked out from
from under her long curling lashes at the greenwoods
of the home-park which stretched in the
distance as far as the eye could reach.

You see,' she said at last, ' you see that
I can never amuse Evelyn. He does not even
talk to me if he can help it. He is always
amused and interested with other women ;
never with me.'

Perhaps you exaggerate that fancy.'

Oh no ; I felt it in Venice that first year.
I am tiresome to him. No one can alter that.
It is a calamity ; nothing can change it.'

'It is not an uncommon calamity in marriage.
Incessant association is so often fatal to

attraction. It is no fault or failure in either
very often. Simply proximity has destroyed
charm. But I know, dear, this sad philosophy
can be no comfort to you. It is as useless
for consolation as the cold physiological
demonstration of a surgeon to a mother that
her dying child has had the seeds of death in
him from his birth.'

Certainly, it does not console me,' she said
with a bitterness which was growing upon her
every year, more and more. ' Physiology and
philosophy explain everything after their own
fashion ; but I never see that they make anything
any better.'

No,' said Aubrey. ' Whether we are
suffering from bodily or mental pain the
diagnosis with which our physicians interest
themselves has little consolation for us, especially
when it leaves us uncured and incurable.'

Tell me,' she said abruptly. ' You have
known him all his life. Is there any woman
whom he really loves? Sometimes I think
there is.'

I hope there is— yourself.'

She made a gesture almost of anger.
'Pray do not fence with me, and spare me

these fadeurs. One does not look for them
from you. Answer my question.'

'I am not in his confidence,' replied
Aubrey, which he could say with a measure of
truth at least. ' I do not think, if you ask me
my frank opinion, that he is a man who has
ever distressed himself with a truly great
passion. Men who merely seek in love their
own self-indulgence are not lovers in the romantic
sense of the word, they are not lovers
like Montrose or Stradella, or Castellated. To
Henri Quatre, Petrarch would have seemed a
poor fool.'

'These are generalities,' she said, impatiently.


And you want personalities, like a true
woman ? ' said Aubrey with a smile. ' Well,
my child, you would not get them from me ;
even were I in possession of my cousin's secrets,
which I am not. I think your greatest enemy
could do you no worse turn than to help you
to try and rake amongst the cold ashes of your
husband's caprices.'

'The ashes may be warm,' she said with
impatience. ' Or there may be fresh fires.'

If there were,' replied Aubrey, ' believe

VOL. II. M

me you would only make them burn furiously
by throwing on them the phosphorus of an
irritated and inquisitive jealousy. Believe me,
dear, there is only one couvre-feu to which a
woman can trust to extinguish a glow which
offends her ; it lies in her own wisdom and
devotion. And do not again try to make me
fill the office of tale-bearer. If I knew anything
of his affairs, which I do not, I would not
descend to such an ignominy, even to serve
you.'

She coloured at the implied rebuke, and
was silent.

You are not so amiable as you were, my
dear,' said Vernon to her on one of the days
in which she was with him alone for a few
hours.

I daresay not,' she answered, almost sullenly.
' The world does not make one amiable.'

That depends on disposition,' he answered.
On the whole, I think people who live in it
are more amiable than those who live out of it.
The friction with others and the variety of
interests which it offers tend to give tolerance,
pliability, and good humour to the character.
The world is to men and women what school

is to children ; at the expense of originality and
meditation it teaches social wisdom and moderates
over-expectation.'

To some, at least, it teaches all forms of
self-indulgence,' she said bitterly.

Her father looked at her.

You are thinking of Guilders ? '

Yes.'

Then I think you do very wrongly, my
dear. He has many better qualities than his
self-indulgence, which is only the necessary
outcome of great freedom to enjoy pleasure.
Why not dwell rather on those ? '

She said nothing.

I do not think you have followed the
counsels I gave you when you first returned
here from Venice,' he continued. ' I do not
think you at all endeavour to do what I told
you to do.'

'What would be the use if I did? He
would only consider that I bored him if I
offered him any demonstrations of attachment.
No one can make the happiness of another
person when they are wholly outside the
other's life, as I am outside his. I have not
the faintest idea of his real interests, his ideal

m2

desires, or of what he does in the thine he is
away from me, which is by far the larger part
of his time.'

Vernon sighed. He had foreseen it all as
clearly as though a magic crystal had shown
it to him. But that made it none the less
painful to him.

He is kind to me in many things — I do
not deny it — and very generous,' she continued
But I feel that I am only wearisome to him,
just as Ladysrood is, though he loves Lady's
and he does not love me.'

Why should you think he does not ?
After these years you cannot expect the
caresses of a lover.'

He never loved me, never ! ' she said sadly.
It was a caprice. He has so many caprices !
He regrets the cost of this one every day of
his Hfe, I know, though he is a gentleman and
does not say so.'

Are you sure you are not morbidly
fanciful, my child? Cannot you be content
with the sense that you are much nearer to
him than any other woman can be ? '

She smiled. The smile was not the one
which had used to come on her face.

I am much farther off him than any other
woman is! He would tell any stranger anything
sooner than he would tell it to me. My
dear father ! All that you say, they call mieux
jeu m our world : that world which you think
should make me so amiable ! '

I may have old-fashioned ideas, dear,'
said Yernon, pained by her tone, ' but however
fashions change, I do not think humanity
changes so very greatly under them ; and
tant que le monde est monde I think that a
woman will make her own unhappiness by
exaggeration of her wrongs, and that a great
and genuine devotion on her part will touch
any man soon or late.'

You are an optimist ; he always says so.'

'Does he ? Yet I was very far from
optimistic when I endeavoured to dissuade you
both from your union.'

She knew that he had indeed done his best
to prevent her marriage, and she said nothing
more.

My dear,' he added very gravely, ' the
fatal mistake of every woman is to weigh the
man in her own scales. You might as well
say the rosemary growing yonder in the earth

has the same needs and the same habits as the
sea-gull flying over there. It is this horrible
pretension, or mistake, or ignorance, whichever
it is, in the minds of women which makes
their own misery in so much. I am afraid
you are now making it, as so many of your
sisters have done before you to their cost.
The man is all in all to the woman, but she
can never be all in all to him, except in some
few first hours of delirium. The woman can
receive no happiness, physical or mental, save
from her beloved ; but he can find pleasure,
if D'^t happiness, with those whom he despises.
Homme aime pour ie plaisir qu'il resort ;
la femme aime pour le plaisir qu'elle donne."
Possession and intimacy confirm and strengthen
the passion of the woman ; but in ninety-nine
cases out of a hundred they destroy the man's
passion altogether, and leave at their best but
gratitude or tenderness behind them. These
are painful truths which every woman, my
dear child, has to learn. The happy women
are those who learn, and do not fret at the
lesson. The unhappy are those who incessantly
strive to resist the laws of nature. I
want you to be happy. But happiness will

not come by any effort that you make to
dwell, or to force a man to dwell, in an
imaginary heaven of impossibilities. Nor will
it come through any turbulence or bitterness
of jealousy.'

Again she did not reply. Her heart gave
no echo to the words, and she felt almost
bitterness against her adviser for the tolerant
wisdom of them. ' He is not a woman ; how can
he tell what one suffers? ' she mused impatiently.

I suppose I erred in her education,'
thought her father with sorrow. ' I suppose I
forgot that though in so innocent a way, yet
she lived wholly for herself when she was with
me, and had nothing to teach her how to live
for others. It seemed to me very lovely and
harmless, that flower-like life of hers amongst
the boughs and the birds. I suppose I forgot
that it would not fit her for those colder
realities which the selfishness of every man
makes the woman suffer from when his affections
desert her. And yet I tried to make her
somewhat wiser, somewhat truer than most
women are ; and I used to think I had succeeded.
He has undone my work very
rapidly — he and the great world together.*

Gladys meanwhile left him with a sense of
injustice done to her.

The tender sympathy of Aubrey was more
welcome to her than her father's uttered and
implied censures. She felt what she had said
that it was of no use for her to be prodigal
of her love for a man who was not so much
ungrateful to it as he was, from indifference,
unconscious of it.

I care for him, but then he does not care
for me ! ' she thought as she drove through the
green twilight of the Ladysrood woods.

Who could help that? What effort could
change a dead passion into a living one ? Sooner
would the buried bodies lying in the thyme-scented
graveyard, which hung above the sea
at Christslea, arise and walk.

CHAPTEE XXXII.

The next day Aubrey left Ladysrood, and
Guilders went to Paris for a week ; at the
end of the week their first circle of guests
would arrive ; at the end of the second week
there were to come to them some royal personages,
and with them the Duchess Soria.

Gladys had five days of quiet and rural
solitude before her. She spent them almost
entirely with her father. When the great house
was filled the Life in it was more tedious to
her even than London ; her time still less her
own ; her patience and courtesy still more
severely taxed. Whatever society might be to
others, to her it seemed a treadmill never resting,
a camisole de force never laid aside, a
formula incessantly upon the lips, a conventional
imposture never abandoned for a moment.
She was a child still at heart, and all its ceremonies
and etiquette and precedence were to her

as the weight of her jewels and the length of
her train had been to her at her first day at
Court. Oh, for one sincere word in the midst
of all those polished murmurs of complement
and calumny, and dissimulation, and veiled
indecencies, and masked innuendo ! — so she
thought a hundred times a week in it.

Older women, women either colder in their
affections or warmer in their passions, could
find interest and excitement in its intrigues, and
its conflicting and contrasting interests; they
could move in it as in a labyrinth of which
they had the silken clue, they could play in it
like movers of pawns and knights at chess.

But she could not find that distraction and
compensation. There was something in her of
her father's distaste for the hurry, the excitation,
the falsity, the intrigue, and the incidents,
trivial and serious, which make up the
interest of modern society had no power to
attract and absorb her.

In these few days preceding the arrival of her
husband and her guests she was soothed and
strengthened by the quiet country atmosphere,
in that homeliness and tranquillity which had
been about her from her cradle. When she was

with her father, self-sacrifice and fortitude seemed
still possible. In the feverishness of the world
she lost her hold on them. He tried to make
her see that there was nothing new in what she
suffered from ; nothing more than was usual
and inevitable. He tried to imbue her with
that toleration and indulgence which it is the
hardest of all trials to attain in youth. He
could add little that was new to what he had
said when she had before consulted him ; but
that little he strove to put before her with
sympathy and pity, though its philosophic reasonings
seemed very cold to her.

To the imagination which pictures, and the
heart which craves, richer, fuller, more complete
joys than human passion and human possessions
can ever bestow, the assurance that such perfection
is but a dream, and that the passions
can only be the flower of a day, appears a
dreary creed which lays the whole world
barren.

My dear child,' said Vernon, ' you have
only found what most women who know much
about men do find, that the man they love
is seldom either Achilles or Hector, either
Sydney or Montrose, either heroic or italic.

but is generally rather like a sick and fractious
child who cries for what he cannot get, and
beats the hand which tries to soothe him.*

She smiled but sadly.

My dear, I only speak thus of my own sex,
in their passions,' he continued. ' There are
other things in life besides its passions, though
I admit that there are none which colour it so
deeply, or so infuse into it, irrevocably, bitterness
or sweetness. But there are other things ;
it is in these other things that you should find
your allies. Guilders is a man whose whole life
should not be squandered in falling in love and
falling out of love. He has position, opportunity,
talent ; he should have as time goes on
some other aim than breaking the hearts of
women, whether your heart or those of others.
It is with that side of his life that your alliance,
your efforts, your interests, should be. Cannot
you see that ? '

'I cannot see what does not exist,' said
Gladys coldly. 'He has no other object in
life than his own pleasure. He says it is the
only wise philosophy. I suppose it is, when
you are rich enough to carry it out.'

It is the Epicurean ; but what joy will



there be in that without youth ? He forgets ;
he makes no provision for age.'

She was silent ; age to her seemed so far
off, that it was without shape or meaning in
her eyes ; her whole soul was concentred in
her present.

Her father looked at her. There were regret,
anxiety, disquietude in the regard.

Gladys,' he said abruptly, 'he told me once
that he thought you were cold. You are not
so. Far from it. How have you given such
an idea of you to a man who is your husband
? '

She pulled some little branches of the sweet-briar
hedge to her nervously. She did not
reply.

How ? ' repeated her father. ' You must
have failed to respond to him in some way ?
You must have disappointed him at some time .^
You must have shut your heart away from his
gaze ? Will you not answer me ? '

Her head was turned from him and her
voice trembled as she replied : ' I so soon saw
that he cared so little.'

Everything seemed to her be told in that.

Are you sure that was not your fancy ? '

Quite sure.'

Even when you spoke to me that first
day after your return four years ago ? You
remember ? '

Yes ; even then.'

She sighed impetuously.

Even then,' she repeated. ' He had paid
a great price for me and he regretted the price
just as he does again and again when he bids
for a picture at Christie's, or the Hotel Drouot,
and it falls to him. The picture has never
been painted which could satisfy him when he
gets it home ! '

Vernon echoed her sigh. It seemed to him
hopeless to change a state of feeling built on
caprice and on indifference, on a temperament
as shifting as the sands, and a discontent grown
out of self-indulgence. He looked at his
daughter with irrepressible sadness.

It seemed such a little while ago that she
had run along by that sweetbread hedge in the
sunshine, no taller than itself, a happy, careless,
fair-haired child, fresh as a ' rose washed in a
shower.' And she was here a great lady, an
unhappy woman ; a jealous and almost deserted
wife! He had foreseen it all himself,



but his past prescience of it made its sorrow
none the lighter.

Gladys sighed wearily.

Like all persons of poetic and ardent mind
her ideals in youth had been high and romantic
; the man who had knelt at her feet in
the library of Ladj^srood with the Horae on her
knee and the sunlight through the painted
panes falling on his handsome head, had
seemed to her, lover, knight, and hero all in
one. And what had she found him ? Only
a master, negligent yet exacting ; indifferent
yet arbitrary ; restless, hard to please, and
quite impossible to content ; who took his
infinite social and personal charms elsewhere ;
who spent his time and his passions with others,
and who considered that he had fulfilled all
the obligations of his position to her, when he
had given her his houses to direct and his
family jewels to wear.

Yes, my dear,' John Vernon said in his
own thoughts, silently answering her own
silence, ' you make the common mistake of all
women. You think that the gift of yourself
gives you claim to the man's eternal affections.
It does not. It cannot. I know this seems harsh

to you, and cruel. But it is the law of sex.
Here and there are dies elite, who suffice
solely and wholly, physically and mentally, to
each other ; but they have not met early in
life, and they have not married each other.
Where marriage is hostile to love is, that it
substitutes material gifts of worldly goods,
worldly advantages, worldly position, gifts of
houses and money and land, for the sweet
spontaneous gifts of the passions and the affections.
In savage races the man can treat
his wife how he will, because he has given so
many ponies, or cattle, or buffalo-skins, for her.
In civilised life he feels in the same way that
he has paid for her in material matters, and sois
absolved from other and more spiritual payment.
There is something to be said for the
man's views, only where is the woman who
will ever perceive or admit it ? '

But all this he could not say to her.

If you have living children you will be
happier,' he said aloud, as the only suggested
consolation of which he could think.

Her face flushed, and she rose and pulled
the shoots of the sweetbread impetuously off
their stalks.

I shall never have children,' she said in a
low and sullen voice. ' Do you suppose that I
would live with him — without his love — only
because he wishes for legitimate offspring ?
Cannot you understand? I have made him
know that ever since — ever since — I first felt
that he did not care for me.'

And he accepts the condition ? '

When I tell you that he does not care ? '

The colour burned in her cheeks ; a dark
cloud of anger hung over the fairness of her
face.

One sees it in the world, I know,' she
continued : ' women who go on bearing children
year after year to men whom they know care
nothing for them, but they must be without
spirit or senses, or dignity or delicacy ; they
must be the wretched beasts of burden that
your Griseldis was ! '

Her father looked at her with infinite pain.

It is worse than I thought,' he said briefly.
I do not know how far he may be to blame ;
he has never opened his heart to me, and I
cannot judge ; but I do not think that you
cherish the spirit which can bring happiness
either to you or him. And I do not think that

VOL. II. N

you have any right to refuse that natural burden
of maternity which, however little you knew of
life then, you still knew would be your portion
if you married him.'

The moment that he has ceased to love
me, he has set me free from all such obligations,'
she said passionately. ' My little children
lie in their graves. When I shall lie with them,
he can have others by some other woman, who
will be more grateful for his gifts and his
position than am I.'

You pain me, Gladys,' said Yernon, with
a sigh.

I cannot help it,' she replied, selfish with
that concentration of self which the sufferings
of the heart and passions always entail.

When I am with you,' she said with the
tears rising to her eyes, ' I am in much what I
used to be. I feel your influence. I believe
as you believe in the power of self-sacrifice and
patience. But I leave all the good you do me
within this little gate. I cannot carry it out
into the world. There I am only foolish,
jealous, embittered, made cold or made wicked,
one hour this, one hour that. In the world I
see that women who are forsaken find consolation.

Why should I not find it if I can ? One
of your classic writers says somewhere that a
woman has always one power of vengeance.
Sometimes I feel that I will try and reach his
pride with that, since I can touch in no better
way his heart ! '

Vernon was silent for some moments ; he
understood all the conflicting impulses at war
within her, and he was at once too merciful
and too wise to meet them with the empty conventional
arguments of what is called in the
world morality. He believed, like Aubrey,
that it is only by the affections that women can
or should be ever led.

Other women have done that,' he said at
last, ' and have repented it all their lives long.
We cannot wound what we love without wounding
ourselves more profoundly still ; and to
dishonour ourselves because we feel ourselves
humiliated seems to me the act of madness ; it
would be as wise to cut our throats because the
cold makes our hands ache on a winter's day.
By what you tell me, you have set free your
husband by your own choice ; you cannot
complain if he construes his liberty with a
man's liberal and loose reading of the word.

N 2

You have been too quick to consider yourself
neglected, and too quick to repudiate your own
obligations. You have beauty, you have youth,
and you have the honour of the man you love,
or have loved, in your hands. If with all this
you can obtain no influence on him, and cannot
rise to a higher level than that of your own
personal affronts and suspicions, you are not
what I thought you ; and all the care and
culture I have given to you, and all the efforts
I have made to render you in some little degree
wiser and kinder than other women, have been
lost. To feel that it is so will be the crowning
disappointment of my life, which has been
neither so tranquil nor so contented as others
think it. For I am mortal, and I have found,
like all mortals, that " life is a series of losses."
Do not let me lose you at least.'

She was touched to the quick, if she was
not convinced. The tears fell upon her father's
hand as she kissed it.

But she promised nothing.

Do not let us talk any more of this,' said
Vernon. ' Feeling loses its force and its delicacy
if we put it under the microscope too
often, whether you be living or dead. I believe

that you will always live your own life in such
wise as I should most wish. In dishonouring
yourself you would dishonour me ; you will
remember that. Let us go down to the shore.
Nothing soothes one like the sound of the sea.
Who has been mistaken enough to say that
Nature was not loved in classic eyes? Why,
all Greek and Latin verse is full of it, from the
roar of the waves in Homer to the chaunt of
the grasshopper in Meleager, and the birds
singing in the rosemary of Tibullus ! '

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Vernon was seated a few days later in the
wicker chair of his garden, with a volume of
Terence on his knee, and the dog at his feet,
when the old woman in cotton kirtle and
coal scuttle bonnet, who served as letter-carrier
for some twelve miles round, brought him a
packet of publishers' letters, and newspapers,
and pamphlets, and one other letter in a hand
unknown to him, and enclosed in the thick
blue paper which usually bespeaks a legal
correspondence. When he read it he found
himself the master of a modest little fortune.
A very distant relation in the colonies, from
whom he had had no communication for twenty
years, and of whom he had scarcely ever known
anything, had died childless, and had left him
the proceeds of a long life of sheep farming, ' because
he is the only honest man I have ever

heard of,' said this New Zealand Diogenes in his
testament.

The letter of these lawyers, who were
wholly strangers to him, moved him to a
mingled emotion. He could not but be
thankful that his future years, brief as they
might be, would be freed from the aire
cure of reliance on precarious literary labours ;
but his heart ached that this good news had
not come earlier. A reluctant consent had
been wrung from him to Gladys's marriage,
principally because he knew that the state of
his health might any day leave her without a
protector, and that he had not means to bequeath
to her any ease or elegance of life.
This knowledge had made him conscious that
he had no right to stand between his daughter
and the brilliant and secure position offered to
her, from mere romantic apprehensions which
the future might never realise. But if this
little fortune had come to him before the visit
of Guilders, he would not have hesitated to
place the test of long probation betwixt him
and his desires. Alas ! when fortune stretches
out full hands, it is so often too late for her
gifts to be of much use. Still he was thankful

as he sat in the pale sunshine amidst the
honeysuckle and sweetbread of his cottage
porch.

He loved learning with all a scholar's
tender and delicate devotion, and it had often
seemed to him almost a prostitution of it to
turn his command of its treasures into a means
of making money. A sentimentality the world
would have called it, as it always calls so
every better emotion in us.

As he sat thus he heard the rapid trot of
horses' feet coming up the sandy lane, sunk
low between high flowering hedges and banks
which were in spring purple with violets.

Someone from Ladysrood,' he thought.

Ladysrood had become full of guests, and
Vernon never consented to go there when
there was a house party ; he pleaded utter
disuse of society, and distaste for it ; and,
indeed, few of the associates of Guilders
had much in common with him. And he
had an unchangeable resolution never to give
any human being the right to say that he had
gratified his own ambition, and secured his
own interests, by his daughter's alliance.

Why should you persist in remaining so

aloof from US ? ' Guilders had said to him that
same morning ; and Vernon replied :

Why should I renew acquaintance with the
great world when it and I have been strangers
so long ? My life must seem to you like that of
a snail or a mollusc, fastened under a cabbage-leaf
or a ribbon weed. But it is a contented
one. Can you say as much for yours ? '

Guilders was at a loss what to answer.

You are the only contented person I have
ever met,' he said evasively.

I am content because I have done with
expectation,' replied Vernon. 'What is discontent?
Only desires which are incapable of
fulfilment. I quite understand that the whole
tenour of modern life inevitably produce* it ;
that is why I live chiefly with the dead.'

A waste of your great intelligence, and a
deprivation to those who appreciate your society,'
said Guilders.

My dear Evelyn,' said Vernon, ' I am not
vain enough to believe in your flattery. Whatever
my intelligence may be worth I can put
on paper, and if any really care for my society
they can come to Christslea — as you come.'

Guilders coloured a little. He was sensible

that lie came but seldom there. And yet
he had great afFection and admiration for John
Yernon.

It is a very great pity that he remains such
a recluse,' he said once to Aubrey, who replied :
You think my life distressingly wasted on
the country. You think Vernon's distressingly
wasted on solitude. He and I think yours distressingly
wasted on pleasure. Which of the
three of us is most right ? '

Probably we are all three extremely unwise
to judge of, and for, others.'

That may very well be. Possibly, too, all
life is more or less wasted because men, with all
their studies, have never studied the secret of
truly enjoying it. Possibly, too, Vernon in his
hermitage is nearer doing so than either you

or i;

But though he had never gone thither,
those of the guests of Ladysrood who had
learning enough to appreciate it often sought
his society, and the little cottage under the
apple orchards had become a sort of intellectual
Delos to those men of genius and learning
who were numbered amongst Guilders's
friends. It was no one of these now, but

Hilda Sunbury who lifted the latch of the
little wooden gate and came under the wild
rose boughs to him.

Having begun by hating him as an adventurer
and an eccentric solitary, she had
ended in admiring him and esteeming him.
The only really sensible man I ever met,' she
often averred.

Vernon, on his part, liked her ; he appreciated
her strong attachments and her strong
common sense which yet so denied her those
true charms, sympathy and the power of
silence. She had now driven over alone,
ostensibly to consult him about one of her
sons, but in reality for another purpose. When
she had spoken of her son, of politics, ad of
the weather, she hesitated a moment, and then
said:

Mr. Vernon, you and I have one common
object and desire, the happiness of my brother
and your daughter.'

Certainly, my dear lady,' replied Vernon ;
but if you mean that either you or I can do
anything except wishing for it, you are greatly
mistaken. I have told you so very often.'

A word in season surely '

Ah, no ! It is just those words which are
always most aggravating ! I am sure you have
some bad news for me. Spare me, and tell it
quickly.'

I ought not to tell you at all. But you
have heard of the Duchess Soria ? '

Never.'

She gave him the outlines of the Duchess
Soria's past so far as it had been connected with
her brother, and Yernon heard with impatience.

It was broken off before his marriage, no
doubt,' he said. 'Why rake amongst dead
leaves ? '

Because leaves grow again.'

You mean ? '

'That Evelyn is more in love with this
woman than he ever was before, and that she
comes to Ladysrood tomorrow. Now what I
wish to know is, shall you or I tell your
daughter ? '

Vernon heard with infinite pain.

I knew how it would be,' he murmured.
But I confess it is sooner than even I thought.
My child is worth more than that. Perhaps
you mistake.'

I never mistake,' she replied, with hauteur ;

and if I sacrifice the reputation of my brother
to you, it is out of sincere regard for your
daughter.'

What do you want me to do ? '

Whatever you deem best. She must certainly
not be left to remain in ignorance to
receive Beatrice Soria '

Vernon sighed.

Dear madam, it is only ignorance — unless
most wondrous and perfect patience — which
enables any woman to endure her married life
at all.'

You mean, then, you would leave her in
ignorance ? '

Yes. What good could knowledge do if
it be as you think ? '

Good heavens ! Surely there is such a
thing as self-respect ? '

'Yes; my child will always have self-respect,
for she will never, I am convinced, do
anything to lose the respect of others. Self-respect
does not consist in making violent
scenes, or ill-judged reproaches, or discoveries
which are for ever fatal to peace.'

You take the insult to your daughter
strangely quietly.'

I have known the world in my time, my
dear madam, and I read your brother's character
before he had been ten minutes in my
study ; it is not a character from which any
woman can expect constancy. I thought,
however, that he was a gentleman ; if he is
as insincere and as unscrupulous as you describe
he is not one.'

Not a gentleman ! '

Lady Sunbury flushed crimson, and rose in
bitter anger.

Not if what you tell me is true.'

I did not tell you that he might be
abused, but argued with ; and that your
daughter might be warned and counselled.'

John Vernon sighed wearily.

Dear Lady Sunbury, you and I both spent
all our intelligence in warnings and in counsels
before this marriage took place. Action, now
that it has taken place, would be worse than
useless.'

My intentions are misunderstood,' said his
visitor coldly. ' All my inclinations would, of
course, lie towards screening and excusing my
brother. But I thank God that I have never
allowed mere inclination to be the guide of my

conduct. I believe in duty, though I know
the world of our day ridicules and despises
me, and my sense of duty made me feel that I
could not allow my sister-in-law ignorantly to
receive her most formidable rival.'

I thank you for your feeling for Gladys,'
said Vernon, with emotion. ' But neither you
nor I should do any good in lifting the band
off her eyes ; it will fall enough of itself.
Besides — pardon me — you cannot tell that
Guilders's feelings have revived for this lady.
He cannot have told you, I presume ? '

He has not told me, certainly. But I
have always taken means to be aware of my
brother's actions, and I know that all relations
are renewed between him and the Duchess
Soria.'

Vernon covered his eyes from the sun with
one hand. The calm sweet light and the gay
song of the navies in the adjacent orchard
hurt him.

'It is very sad if true,' he said at last.
But interference were worse than useless. It
would only confirm your brother in his infidelity,
and inspire in my daughter a resentment
which she could never forget. Dear

madam, believe me, marriage is a difficult
thing. But, as law stands, we cannot undo
one once contracted without publicity, comment,
interrogation, every indignity which it
is most frightful for either a proud or a delicate
nature to provoke. What then remains ?
Only to leave such peace as there is in it undisturbed
as long as we can. I know that you
believe in the advantages of interference. I
do not. When we are sure to do any possible
good by it, it is a dangerous meddling with
fates not our own. When we cannot even be
sure of so much as that, we certainly cannot
dare to attempt anything. Your brother's wish
for my daughter's hand was, as you know,
most unwelcome to me, because I knew that
he had not the stability, nor she the experience,
to make happiness between them possible. But
since, unhappily, she is his wife, she shall not,
I promise you, whilst I live, allow either passion
or injury to fling his name to the howling
calumnies and cruelties of the world ; not
whilst I live.'

There was a great sadness in the three last
words, and he sighed as he said them.

When I am gone, be kind to her,' he added.

Where are you going ? '

Where we must all go.'

Hilda Sunbury looked at him in surprise
and wonder.

Why should you speak so ? You are as
likely to Eve as she or I. You are in the full
vigour and flower of your intellect.'

John Vernon smiled.

Of my intellect, perhaps ; but, unhappily,
living is a physical question, and when the
body succumbs the light of the mind goes out
too. I have always thought it the greatest
argument for the immortality of the soul, for
it is really ridiculous to suppose that the
hemlock could really destroy such a mind as
Socrates, or that the genius which created i\^'iel
and Caliban can have been killed for ever because
Warwickshire leeches in the Elizabethan
days were fools. Plato, indeed '

Lady Sunbury rose in evident irritation.
Socrates and Plato ! Good heavens, Mr.
Yernon, how can you possibly think of such
people when I have just told you, at the
greatest pain to myself, and perhaps even
disloyalty to my brother, of what wrong is
being done to your only child ! '

VOL. II.

My dear madam,' said Vernon wearily,
Vif my child ultimately succeeds in keeping
the honour of your brother's name intact, and
bearing her own pain and dishonour in silence,
she will owe it to that which I have told
her in childhood of those two dear dead friends
of mine. Perhaps you have never read the
"Apology " or the " Crit " ? Horace has said
that a new amphora keeps long the odour of
the first wine poured in it ; and as it is with
the earthen vase, so is it with the human mind
in youth.'

Lady Sunbury left the garden of Christslea
with offence.

She reflected that it was always wholly
useless to look for practical wisdom from the
students of books.

She had been born with an ungovernable
love of interference with the affairs of others.
She believed so conscientiously in the excellence
of her intentions, that she was
sincerely ignorant of the curiosity, love of
authority, and many another personal motive,
which were continually moving her to interfere
to govern the destinies and to correct
the errors of others. Her detestation of the

Duchess Soria had been to the full as potent
in her present action as her anger with
Guilders and her indignation for the wrongs
of his wife. Like many another woman of
energy and exclusive attachments, she could not
resist the feeling that she had been appointed
by Providence to watch over, and save from
themselves, all those who belonged to her ; and
though this view of her mission had never
yet had any other result than to alienate and
weary those whom she desired to serve, and
frequently to hasten their descent down that
path which she sought to prevent them from
ever following, yet she never could so alter her
nature as to refrain from making the attempt.
Her husband hated, her sons feared, and Her
brother often avoided her in consequence, but
no power on earth would ever have persuaded
her that her failure to influence them arose
from her own fault. Alas ! most people carry
about with them a lanthorn like Diogenes, but
they are for ever flashing its rays into the faces
and the souls of others ; they do not remember
to turn its light inward.

Lady Sunbury indeed knew — no one better
that a woman can no more restrain a man



from inconstancy than she can restrain the
breakers of the sea from rolling up on to
the shore. She knew, too, by her own experience,
that rebuke, reproach, expostulation,
publicity, only increase the evils against which
they passionately protest. But she did not
choose to remember anything of what she
knew. She was only ready to blame her
brother's wife for too passive acquiescence, as
she would have blamed her had she had recourse
to any violent indignation. She could
not pardon her for having gained no influence
over Guilders, even as she would never have
forgiven her had she succeeded in gaining any.
She knew that her sister-in-law was unhappy,
and that such unhappiness was at her age
perilous in every kind of way ; but yet she
was rather impatient of her and critical of
her than compassionate. If she were nota
simpleton she was Wicked, quite wicked,
not to take such measures as would save her
husband from unfaithfulness and herself from
sorrow.

And she, who had forgotten the saying
that ' fools rush in where angels fear to
tread,' or else never imagined by any possibility

that she could be classed with fools, drove
rapidly home to Ladysrood, where a large party
was staying as well as herself. ' It will be very
difficult to see her alone,' she thought, ' but I
will try.'

As it chanced, Guilders was out riding
with several of his friends ; the remainder of
the guests were sitting, sauntering, or playing
afternoon games in the west gardens. There
was a large table spread under one of the great
chestnuts, where servants were serving tea, ices,
fruits, wines, strawberries and cream, everything
that was wished for or imagined. Gladys was
performing that part of mistress of a great house
which had now become second nature to her,
but which never ceased to oppress and fatigue
her with its tedium.

Society, like all other pursuits of life,
requires to have an object in it to be interesting.
She had no object ; it did not seem
to her that anything of interest could possibly
arise in her life. She had pain in it, and
a jealousy for which she contemned herself,
but these had both become so familiar by habit
that she had ceased to expect ever to be free
from them. Her want of interest in what went

on around her gave her a listless air, which all
her really sincere efforts to be kind and courteous
could not repair. People felt that they were
indifferent to her, that they bored her, that she
would have preferred their absence to their
presence, and there were many whose vanity
made them bitterly resent this. She was
moving now from one group to another, doing
her best to be amused by what so greatly amused
every one else, and failing entirely to be so. She
wore a Gainsborough hat, with long feathers
drooping to her shoulders ; she had on a white
frock of very soft embroidered gauze tissue, and
a great sash of broad pale blue ribbon was
fastened at the side.

She is really a lovely creature,' thought her
sister-in-law ; ' how wild he would be about
her were she only some one else's wife ! '

Lady Sunbury joined the groups under the
chestnuts and bided her time. It was still earls
There was a great deal of laughter and flirtation
and general diversion, the air was balmy,
and the gardens delightful. Some one asked if
they might dance, the lawai was so smooth ; the
lady of Ladysrood assented ; the musicians, who
were always in the house, were sent for, and

stationed where they were not seen behind
thickets of rhododendron ; the people began
to dance.

Gladys and Lady Simbiiry were left almost
alone.

How strange that they can care for that I '
said the former, with dreamy contempt, as lie
watched the walters moving round.

How I wish you cared for it, my dear ! '
said Lady Sunbury. ' How I wish you cared
for anything.'

Do you .^ ' Gladys looked suddenly at her
with a strange expression in her eyes.

Certainly I do,' said her sister-in-law.
You would be so much happier if you where —
were — interested in what goes on around you.'

I am very often interested ; I am not often
pleased.'

What does she mean ? ' thought Lady
Sunbury.

I wanted to say something to you fora
moment in private. Could we go a little
apart, do you think ? They are all dancing.'

Oh yes. They will not miss me.'

She moved away from the gaiety of the
scene into a walk known as the King's Alley,

because Charles Stuart had paced up and down
it in the dark days between Oxford and
Whitehall. It was a green walk enclosed on
either side with tall walls of clipped yew,
above which stretched and met the boughs of
massive beeches. It was sequestered and out
of earshot, though the music of the waltz came
to them on the air as they paced down it.

You care for your father ? ' said Lady
Sunbury.

Ah ! ' It was an ejaculation rather thana
word, but the whole love of a lifetime was
in it. ' It is no ill of him you want to say,
is it?'

Oh no,' said her sister-in-law. ' I went
to see him this afternoon. I wanted him to
tell you something which must be told you.
But he refused.'

Be sure that it should not be told at all,
then,' said Gladys coldly.

Mr. Vernon is not infallible,' replied Hilda
Sunbury, growing angered. ' I consider that
it should be told, and I am the best judge of
what is or is not for the honour of my family.
I do not wish you to receive the Duchess
Soria;

Gladys stood still and looked at her.

Why ? ' she asked.

'Because — because my brother was her
friend — more than her friend — before his
marriage.'

My dear Lady Sunbury,' said her brother's
wife very calmly, ' if I am to decline to know
all the women whom your brother honoured
in that manner, I shall have to make great
excisions in my visiting list.'

Good heavens ! Can you make a jest
of it?'

No ; God knows that is farthest from my
thoughts. But the world would make a jest
of him if I acted on your advice.'

Do you mean to say that you were aware
of what his relations were with Beatrice Soria .^
and what they have again become ? '

Gladys grew very pale.

I knew there was something — some one —
it does not matter who — it is not the first time.'

Her voice was faint with pain, but her face
was calm.

Are you sure that it is Mme. Soria ? ' she
asked after a moment's pause.

Perfectly sure. You cannot let her come

here ; you must make Evelyn understand that.
I speak as I do for your honour and his.'

Or for our estrangement,' thought Gladys
bitterly.

My father said I was not to be told this ? '
she inquired.

Yes ; he said it could do no good. He
did not appreciate my motives, my sense of
duty.'

Neither do I,' said Gladys abruptly ; and
she began to walk on under the beechen
shadows.

I am sorry that you do not,' said Lady
Sunbury sternly. ' You are nothing to me,
and my brother is much. But I could not see
a wrong done to you under your own roof
while I could save you from it by a word of
warning. It was useless to speak to Guild troy ;
he is self-willed, careless, obdurate, where his
fancies are involved. I deemed it best to put
you on your guard. If you tell him you refuse
to receive the Duchess Soria he will be compelled
to acquiesce, and he will not ask your
reasons and he will be saved from the world's
condemnation.'

Gladys said no tiling in answer. She continued

to pace the alley with agitated,
quickened steps.

Have you a personal dislike to Mme.
Soria ? ' she asked abruptly.

That is a very unworthy insinuation,'
replied her sister-in-law with hauteur. ' This
much I will say of her — she is the only woman
on earth who ever really influenced my brother.
You must be aware that you yourself have no
more influence over him than if you were
a statue; of course I do not know whether
that is his fault or yours '

Each one of the words went to the heart
of the hearer as if it had been a stab with
a knife. Had it been her fault ? Her father
also had seemed to think so. Her sister-in-law
evidently thought so. What did women do to
retain the passion and elicit the confidence of
men? She could not tell. Who could put
in her possession the secret of that marvellous
talisman ? She turned to her companion
with composure, though her lips were very
pale :

I have no doubt you mean well, though
you might find it hard work to persuade Lord
Guilders that you do so. Mme. Soria does

not come for three days. In the morning I
will go to Christslea and consult my father.'

Your father will certainly counsel you to
keep the role of Griseldis,' said Lady Sunbury
with ill-repressed rage and violence.

Gladys' face flushed painfully.

If I do keep it,' she said with bitterness,
it is certainly the members of your house
who should be grateful to me.'

Then she walked with quick firm steps
away from her sister-in-law, out of the shade
of the beech-alley, and towards the dancers in
the sunlight on the lawn.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

John Vernon having accompanied his visitor
to her carriage, had walked slowly back to his
little house. He had felt infinitely more emotion
than he had shown to her, for although not
unexpected, the tidings she had brought to him
had been none the less cruel. And he felt, ashe
had said to her, that all intervention would
be useless, worse than useless. When two
lives are drifting apart, their own regret or
helen tings can yet unite them, but the interference
of any other can only send them wider
asunder.

He sat down again in his willow chair, with
the sunshine about him and the bees buzzing in
the honeysuckles. His left hand was still closed
unconsciously on the letter from his dead cousin's
lawyers. The emotions of pleasure and pain
had exhausted him ; they were the perils against
which he had always been Learned. His tranquil

life amongst his books had alone preserved so
long his fragile cord of life.

As he looked at the gay sunshine with the
gnats and flies dancing in it, the tangle of green
boughs through which the blue of the sea was
shining, the fragrant sweetbread and southern-wood
where two little blue toties were flitting,
to him there seemed so much — ah, how much !
that was unutterably beautiful in existence.
Why would youth and manhood fret themselves
away in the fierce and heated furnace of
passions which were no sooner attained and
enjoyed than they lost all power to charm ?
If youth would only believe how much else
there is to enjoy ! If age, which does know,
had not lost the power to enjoy all !

'Sijeimesse savait, si vieillesse pouvaitV he
murmured, in the old trite true sad words of
human existence which has no sooner time to
learn its secret than it has to pass away where
there is no more use for its hardly acquired
knowledge. What cruelty and mockery there
were in this brief saying. If he could only
put his own knowledge, his own patience, his
own experience into the heart of his child !

He felt tired and sad, and the pleasantness

of the little gift of Fortune which had come to
him was forgotten in an aching anxiety for
the fate of one dearer than himself.

'If she be ever forced to leave him,' he
thought. ' she will be too proud to keep her
dowry, she will have this to live on ; it is well
so far.'

The afternoon was very warm and sultry ;
there was no sound but of the buzzing of the
bees and the murmur of the sea on the shore.
He listened to that sound, which seemed like
the beating of the heart of Nature,

If we could listen more to that, and less
to our own, we should be happier while we
hive, and readier for death.' he thought, as he
leaned his head back in the chair and closed his
eyes. He felt very weary. He rested there
very quietly.

The hours passed, and the sun sunk down,
and the little birds in the sweetbread and
southernwood began to think of their bedtime,
safe under their abode of leaves.

The dog at his feet looked anxiously up at
him from time to time. The reflection from
the setting sun shone on his face, which was
very white and very calm, and there, when the

shadows of the evening came about him, his
old servant found him sleeping. He had died
in his sleep, without a pang. There was the
shadow of a smile on his pale hips.

He had gone in peace to the great majority,
whither had gone before him the great souls
whom he had loved in life.

CHAPTER XXXV.

At Laclysrood the long dinner was over by
half an hour ; the drawing-rooms were filled
with gay groups ; there was the sound of
pleasant laughter and of sweet voices, and of
the beautiful melody of Wagner's Spinning
Chorus, which was scarcely listened to or
heeded by any one. In the midst of that
soft animation and polished mirth, the groom
of the chambers, bending low to his master,
murmured an almost inaudible word ; Guilders
grew very pale, and with a hurried phrase of
apology, left his guests. In the library he
found the old gardener of Christslea, who had
come thither to tell him that John Vernon
was dead.

God forgive me ! ' was his first thought.
Will lie ever forgive me if he be gone where
he can know all ? '

VOL. II. p

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

^ My child, you and I have lost the best friend
we had on earth. Let us endeavour to live
together as he would most have wished us to
do said Guilders with sincere emotion, when
he had left all that was mortal of John Vernon
in the little graveyard by the sea at Christslea.

She sighed ; she did not respond.

The party at Ladysrood had of course been
broken up immediately, and there was no
question for the moment of the arrival of the
Duchess Soria. Of the personal impatience
which he felt at this disappointment to himself
Guilders gave no sign to his wife. He was
sincerely sorry for her, and he forbore from
any kind of word or hint which could have
added to her sorrow. He was for the first
time in his life wholly unselfish. But the consciousness
that he was doing his duty did not
prevent the tedium of those solitary days of

mourning from weighing heavily on his spirits,
and taxing his patience cruelly. He was
wholly unused to either the sensation or the
spectacle of pain.

In the overwhelming shock and grief to
her of her father's death, all other memories
and feelings had been for the time forgotten or
thrust aside. Guilders had shown to her in
her suffering a genuine tenderness and sympathy
which had been wholly unaffected, as he himself
bitterly regretted the loss of one whom he
had regarded with affection, and whose loss
was irreparable he knew to her, perhaps to
them both. The cottage at Christslea had been
the one temple of peace in which neither of
them would ever have been ashamed to confess
error and seek reconciliation. But John Vernon
was dead, and all that remained to them
of him were his books and papers, his written
and printed thoughts, and the letter which had
been found in his dead hand.

He was moved to greater regret when he
read and arranged the innumerable papers
which Vernon had left behind him, and felt
conscious, at every line, of how much nobility
of mind and rich maturity of intellect were

p 2

quenched for ever under the wild thyme and
moss which covered the Httle burial-place
where he lay.

Guilders did not share that hope which
sustained the souls of Socrates and Plato, and
which the soul of John Vernon had drunk in
from theirs. To him it seemed that quand on
est 11101% best pour longtemps : a time so long
that it stretches on to all which mortals can
conceive as for ever. And his eyes were often
wet with tears as he turned over the manuscripts
of his dead friend.

The sincerity of his own sorrow did not
diminish the intolerable sense of dreariness
with which these late summer weeks at Lady's
filled him. On the contrary, he became
impatient, even of his own regrets : he
was so wholly unused to harbour as a guest
any thought or emotion which was not pleasurable
that he resented his own pain.

These long silent summer hours in this
house of mourning, with the figure of Gladys in
its long black robes always before him, and no
other distraction possible, tried almost beyond
endurance the good resolutions which he had
silently formed as he looked on the pale serene

countenance of Vernon lying in his last sleep on
his narrow bed, with the lattice of his chamber
open to the blue sky, the twittering birds, the
quivering leaves, the murmurous sea.

A man of his temperament is quickly
touched to fine issues, to honest regrets, to
tender resolves ; but there is no power on
earth which can secure his adhesion to them.

He showed her the most sincere sympathy
in her grief, and was even perfectly patient with
its intensity and long duration. He had felt the
truest admiration and attachment on his own
part for her father, and had always felt that
Vernon would do much to smooth and dissipate
any difficulty which might arise between himself
and her. The philosophical, indulgent, and
temperate influence of such a mind had Had a
sway over himself which he knew to be the
most beneficial he had ever felt. It left a
painful void even in his own life to feel that
that wise and serene friend had for ever passed
out of sight and hearing.

Earlier, ever so little earlier, she would
have responded to his efforts ; the frost of her
heart would have melted under the first sunbeam
of a kind word : but now the rem embrace

of what his sister had told her was ever
dominant. It haunted her night and day ;
guided by its cruel indications, she realised a
thousand words and signs which were confirmation
true. She recollected that her husband's
abandonment of the colonial adventuress
had been contemporary with the arrival of the
Duchess Soria in England. His desire that
she should be invited to Ladysrood ; his tone
in speaking of her ; his preoccupation and
visible anxiety for her pleasure and her
presence — all these recurred to her memory
with overwhelming and indisputable testimony
to the truth of Hilda Sunbury's words.

Hilda Sunbury herself had felt a pang very
kindred to remorse when she heard where she
stood in the brilliant drawing-room of Lady's
that Vernon had been found dead after
sunset. Perhaps she had hastened his end ; she
knew that she had distressed him, and there was
constantly sounding in her ear his bidding, ' Be
kind to her.' Had it been kind to have said
what she had said to her brother's wife?
Would it not have been well if she had obeyed
the dead man's caution and counsel? Her
conscience told her that it would ; and she was

glad to excuse herself to Giiilderoy, and hasten
from his house on a plea of urgent matters
needing her presence at her own home.

She was uneasy at \vhat she had herself
done ; she was sensible that it had been neither
wise nor laudable ; that whatever she knew or
thought she knew should have been kept in
her own breast. But she had been unable to
help a restless desire to have her share of
influence in the life at Ladysrood, and though
she was not conscious of it, unity between her
brother and his wife would have been intolerable
to her. She had never been able to
pardon the manner in which, from the very
first hour, so very young a woman as Gladys
had passively avoided her efforts at direction
and tacitly rejected her suggestions. From the
moment she had presented her at Court, she
had felt that her brother's wife would yield to
her in nothing.

Then she is all alone in the world henceforward
! ' said Aubrey, when he heard of
John Vernon's death.

Alone ! How can you talk in such a
manner ? ' said Lady Sun bury, greatly annoyed.
In herself she blamed her brother endlessly

and pitilessly ; but she would have resented
as the greatest of personal insults a hint from
any one else that he was ever so slightly blameable.


I know no one more entirely alone,' said
Aubrey, very gravely.

Will you console her solitude ? ' it was on
Lady Sunbury's lips to ask ; but the respect
she had for her cousin, both as a man and as a
statesman, restrained her for once from an
unpleasant and imprudent utterance.

Her father might possibly have restrained
her from follies ! ' she observed instead.

'Is she disposed towards folly?' asked
Aubrey. ' I have seen few women so young
so wise.'

You admire all she does ! '

I confess I think she conducts herself, in
what are frequently very difficult circumstances,
with great tact, and forbearance very unusual
in any one of her years. I think she is far
from blind to Evelyn's caprices, but she has
the good sense to affect to be so.'

It is the least she can do in return for all
he has done for her.'

My dear Hilda, what a vulgar sentiment !

If he had not married her, men quite as good
as he would have done so.'

Would you ? ' asked Lady Sunbury with
her most unpleasant expression and accent.

Aubrey raised his languid eyelids and
looked her full in the face.

If I had happened to meet her — yes,' he
replied coldly.

He is in love with her ! ' thought his
cousin, outraged and disgusted ; and she began
to meditate as to how far it was possible to
give any hint of it to Guilders.

In a few weeks the solitude grew unendurable
to him. He was wholly unused
not to have the voices of the world around
him, and the constant sight of a sorrow which
he could do nothing to relieve depressed and
distressed him beyond endurance. A heartless
man would have felt it much less, but Guilders
was never heartless, though he frequently
made the hearts of others ache.

Even a great passion, if he had been
capable of it, would have found him after its
first ecstasies easily diverted from it by the
attractions of minor emotions and of passing
interests.

Life had been full of pleasant temptations
to him, and he had never acquired the habit of
avoiding these or of keeping steadfastly to any
path.

He could do nothing to console her. She
abandoned herself to her grief with a forgetfulness
of all else which was in its way as
selfish as was his desire to get away from the
sight of her grief Her father had been the
centre and support of her whole life ; she
reproached herself passionately with having
ever believed that she was unhappy so long as
the sweetness and wisdom of his life were with
her.

He grew impatient of seclusion and the
sight of sorrow. She was too young to be
left by herself, and she had no relatives
who could be invited to remain with her.
Between his sister and herself he knew that
little harmony or sympathy existed.

If you would come away somewhere it
would distract you ; there are many countries
you have never seen. I will take you
where you choose ; a voyage might do much
to calm you,' he said to her one morning in
the seventh week after Vernon's death. But

she could not be persuaded to leave Ladysrood,
and made her daily pilgrimage to the grave at
Christslea.

I cannot go into the world ; do not ask
me,' she said again and again to him. ' Go
you, if you wish.'

'Eemember that you are the first to suggest
it,' he replied.

Not pleased at the permission given him,
though longing for the liberty which it
awarded, he added with hesitation :

The world will think it strange if I leave
you so soon.'

What does that matter? ' she said, unconsciously
repeating Socrates' question : ' Is it
worth while to think so much of the opinicai
of others ? '

I have no wish for my friends to suppose
that I am unkind or that you are deserted,'
said Guilders, impatiently. ' You have
already, my dear, had a certain manner, a
certain air, which have suggested as much
to some people. I quite understand how
wretched you feel under this irreparable loss,
but I have never understood why you always
looked so little happy before it. Very few

women would quarrel with the life you lead.
And if you have any wishes of which I am
unaware you have only to name them. They
shall be gratified.'

You are very good.'

That is not the language which you should
use to me. It is language ridiculous in the
relations we bear to one another. There is no
question of goodness. You are my wife, and
it is my pleasure as well as my right to give
you whatever it may be in my power to give.'

Is fidelity in your power ? '

She looked him full in the eyes as she
spoke. She was standing before him in the
sunshine ; her black gown fell about her in
long slim severe folds, her face was pale with
long weeping, and there were dark circles
under her eyes. There was a look on her face
wistful and yet resolute, pathetic and yet stern.

Fidelity ! ' repeated Guilders.

It was a strange inquiry, and one which
left him at a loss to answer it. ' Who has been
talking to her ? ' he wondered.

She looked at him with the same unchanging
gaze, and her eyes tried to read his
very soul.

Have you been faithful to uie ? ' she
asked. ' I will believe you if you say that
you have.'

My dear ! ' He was embarrassed and unnerved
; he felt his face grow warm ; a hot
flush rose in his cheeks, his eyes avoided hers,
and he hesitated to reply. ' Why do you ask
such questions ? ' he said with petulance. ' No
man ever tells the truth in reply to them.'

You have told it to me now,' said Gladys,
coldly ; and she said nothing more.

She stood quite still, and looked at him ;
and he avoided her gaze.

And the Duchess Soria ! ' she asked. ' Is
it true that you wished me to invite her here,
because '

He interrupted her passionately.

Hush ! I forbid you to speak her name
to me ! '

Why .P Because you have loved her .^ '

Because she is the only woman I have
really loved in all my life. God help me ! '

There was that sound of true and passionate
feeling in his voice which she had never heard
from him for herself ; such a tone is unmistakable,
is irresistible ; it carries its own truth and

its own secret with it in overwhelming witness
to the most unwilling ear.

Vous I'avez voiilu ! ' he said with violence.
It is always so with women. One spares
them — would screen them — would keep them
in peace — and they will not be content with
that. They will ask and suspect, and prate
and irritate, until they are wounded by the
very thing they need have never known, but
for their own insatiate curiosity, their own
restless and uni tying jealousy ! It is always
so!'

He was passionately angered ; angered with
himself because he had betrayed a secret
which did not only concern himself, and
angered with her because she had driven him
into one of those positions in which a man
must dishonour himself in his own sight, either
by falsehood or confession.

If you loved her, why did you affect to
love me ? ' she asked.

Her voice and her attitude were unnaturally
calm, but her eyes had a look in them which
he did not care to meet.

I affected nothing ! ' he answered with
entire sincerity. ' I thought I loved you ; I

thought at least that I loved you enough to be
happy with you. They always say the happiest
marriages are passionless. I was entirely
honest in all I said to you and in all I said to
your father. I never told you that I had not
loved other women ; I never told you that I
should not love others. No man can give those
pledges if he is sincere in what he says.'

He spoke with force and warmth and perfect
truth ; whether he were wrong or right in
what he said, he believed in his own words, and
he intended neither subterfuge nor apology. He
honestly regretted the pain which he inflicted,
and he was wholly candid in the expressions
of his own emotions. They were things which
he had long thought, long felt, but which Fie
would never have said to her unless she had
forced him to it by injudicious interrogation.
He had been willing to keep her in the calm
outer courts of courteous intercourse and
social conventionalities ; if she had forced her
way, despite him, into the hidden recesses of
his soul, she could not blame him if she found
another name the talisman there and not her
own.

I have never intentionally spoken an

unkind word to you,' he went on after a
moment's silence. ' I have been delighted to
gratify all fancies and wishes that you ever
expressed, or that I could ever divine. You
have not had that pliability and amiability
which one looked for from one so young ; but
I have never uttered a word to any living
being which could allow them to imagine that
I blamed you. I have given you every outward
respect, every possible consideration ; if
you have not known how, or have not cared,
to win my affections and my confidence, I
think I am justified in saying that is not more
my fault than it is yours. Love cannot be
stoned, or bullied, or worried into existence or
duration. All women forget that too often.'

He rose and walked impatiently to and fro
for a few moments.

She stood quite still in the same attitude ;
she was very pale, otherwise she betrayed no
emotion.

I regret that you have forced me to say
those things,' he said, after a moment's silence.
They are always painful to the speaker and
the hearer alike, and no possible good can
ever come from agitating and embittering

scenes. Such scenes are the abhorrence of
my Hfe. Every man loathes them, and I most
of all. In our position no possible good can
come from mutual recrimination. Between
lovers such disputes may be the resurrection of
a buried love. But between people who are
bound together merely by honour, interest, and
society, they can only produce the most fatal
estrangement. I have wished honestly that
you should be happy, and if you are not so, it
is as much my misfortune as it is yours. It
may be also my fault. I do not say that it is
not. But it is a limit of temperament, and not
of will'

He waited for some answer from her, but
she said nothing.

She stood with one hand resting on the
marble column, and she might have been
made herself of marble, so still and so cold
she seemed.

He waited a moment more, looked at her
in hesitation ; then, with a bow, passed and
left her. He knew that he had said what
could not be effaced from her memory, and
what must for ever be like a barrier of ice
between them. Yet if even in that moment

VOL. II. Q

lie had touched his heart or his conscience in
any way, if she had shown anything of that
warmth and tenderness which are the very
lifeblood of a woman's love, he would have
been ready to meet it so far as his feelings
could have been controlled to meet it. He
would have been ready to say to her, ' We are
both sacrificed to the mistaken laws of the
world ; let us pity each other and bear with
each other, and be friends if we can be
nothing more.'

But she had said nothing ; and she had
kept that attitude of coldness, of disdain, of
offence, which had in it neither invitation nor
indulgence. She had no compassion because
she had no comprehension ; and she had been
so wholly absorbed in the intensity of her own
pain that she had had no knowledge that it
might still have been possible to save something
from this wreck of all her hopes. When
women see the treasure of their lives founder
they drown with it. They do not even try to
save what they might.

Guilders did not seek to explain or to
apologise. His conscience was stung, and he
was angered with himself for having been

betrayed into such embarrassment. What
idiots women were ! always seeking to know
things which made their misery when known,
never letting well alone, never accepting the
conventional untruths with which any well-bred
man is careful to cover his errors, always
breaking with rash steps the thin ice which
alone separates them from the bottomless
waters of suspicion and jealousy !

He paced to and fro the west terrace with
anger and a kind of contrition in his thoughts.
Why would she ask those home questions
Why would she try to penetrate his very soul
with the gaze of her great, luminous, serious
eyes? Why could she not take all he gave
her, his kindness, his respect his courtesy,
his outward observance, his occasional embraces,
and not endeavour to probe further
into the secretes of his inner life, and the
mysteries of the male passions .^

Good heavens ! Had she not a life full
enough, brilliant enough, envied enough, to
occupy her and content her without her requiring
his erotic fidelity as though he were
some sighing Stephen to her maiden Coloris ?
Why would women always make themselves

Q 2

wre tolled by demanding the impossible, and
trying to enter the closed chambers of men's
follies ?

And I was really willing to endeavour to
be to her what Yernon would have wished
he thought with a sense of injustice done to
himself.

Why were women always like that ? always
rejecting the pearls you brought them because
you would not, or could not, give them a roc's
egg?

Marriage is such a totally different thing
to what she thinks it,' he said to himself. ' It
is a community of interests ; a union of externals,
a method of continuing the race and
of consolidating property ; it is not a lifelong
worship of Eros with an eternal song of ' !
Hymen, Hymensee ! " '

He was incensed, and nursed his fiction of
injustice to himself, not to look closer at the
injustice to her of which his conscience whispered.


It was the same season of the year, almost
the same day of the month, as that on which
he had first spoken to his sister of his intention
to marry John Vernon's daughter. Good

heavens ! Why had he given away liberty and
peace and independence of action only because
a child had had a lovely face, like a picture
by Eomney, and because he had had vague
impressions that he wished his own sons to
reign after him at Ladysrood? Into what
irrevocable imprisonment had not his senses
and his sentimentality hurried him !

But who could ever have supposed that
a woman so young, and reared in such rural
seclusion, would have had so much penetration,
so much prescience, so much worldly wisdom,
and such obstinate refusal to be deceived ?

I have always been most careful to show
her every outward respect,' he thought ; and
it seemed to him that she was unreasonable,
and he himself harshly treated. He would
always have liked her, always have felt
affection for her, if she had only been more
facile, more pliant, more easily moulded to
what he required.

What could it matter to her if his fancies
went elsewhere ? He could not see that it
really mattered anything.

If there were any very great scandal, if he
left her openly for any one, if he insulted her

in public by admiration for some actress or some
aclventm^ess, then lie could have understood
that she would have felt wronged, and the
world would have been with her. But as it
was, as he had always been careful to do none
of these things, he could-not admit to himself
that she had any injury at all.

He had remained beside her entirely out of
sympathy and good feeling, he had honestly
desired to regulate their future lives to be in
accord and outward harmony, if in no deeper
tenderness, and his only reward had been that
she had asked him a direct and intolerable
question which he had been too honest a
gentleman to answer with a lie !

He was profoundly angered, the more profoundly
because his inner consciousness was
not blameless. If he had loved her, most probably
he would have sought her, have thrown
himself at her feet, and confessed his infidelities
; but it is only men who love very tenderly
who are thus repentant, and he had no kind of
love for her. The little he had ever had had
died out after six months' possession.

As it was he went into his library, wrote
her a brief note, and giving a few orders to his

body-servant to follow him, he had his horse
brought round and rode over the moors to the
nearest railway. His note merely said :

My dear Gladys, — It will be as well for
us not to see one another for a little while.
You are mistress of yourself and of Ladysrood.
I shall probably go to Aix-les-Bains. If you
will address to me at the Embassy in Paris,
I will tell them to forward my letters as I am
not quite sure whither I may turn my steps.
I hope to find you in better health on my
return. You cannot doubt my profound sympathy
in the loss you have sustained.

Ever yours,

Evelyn.'

The note, when he wrote it, seemed to iii
a masterpiece of courtesy, kindliness, dignity,
and implied rebuke.

It seemed to her, when she received it, the
acme of indifference, negligence, heartlessness,
and insult. It was in real truth neither the one
nor the other, being the mere announcement of
the fact of his departure, with the other fact
of his annoyance and offence conveyed through
its conventional words.

CHAPTER Xxxiii.

At that same hour Guilders was alone for a
few instants with the Duchess Soria in one of
the wooded paths of Paix.

He had spent his utmost ingenuity in
the effort to obtain an unwitnessed interview
with her, and had failed, utterly failed, as he
had done in England. The place was filled
with, her acquaintances, men, who were as
assiduous as he in devotion to her, constantly
surrounded her ; and she never received him at
her own apartments when she had not her
friends about her. She desired to give, and
succeeded in giving, him the sense that it were
easier to uproot the rocks and hills around than
to recover any one of the privileges which he
had of his act and will forfeited. His assiduity
in attendance on her gave rise to many
comments amongst the lingering idlers of the
autumn season, which he would have resented

had he dreamed of them. But he did not even
spare a thought to the observation of which he
was the subject, and his whole mind was centered
in the endeavour to break through the
barrier of friendly, but never intimate, association
with her : a banner much more difficult to
break through than any estrangement or coldness
would have created. Those would have
afforded permission for remonstrance or entreaty;
the serene courtesy with which she
invariably received him relegated him without
appeal to the position of a mere acquaintance.
It was well nigh impossible to reproach a
woman whom he had forsaken, for being sufficiently
forgiving and kind to condone such an
offence, and yet he would have been less discouraged
by the most marked resentment than
he was by this placid courtesy. It was not like
her disposition as he remembered it ; it was not
in accordance with anything of her character ashe
had known it.

Eumour attributed to her the intention of
allying herself anew with a Russian of exalted
rank, who had followed her to Aix, and who
made no secret to the world of his homage ;
and Guilders suffered all the tortures of that

impotent jealousy which he had once so carelessly
inflicted on her, and had pitied so little
in her.

In the perplexity and perturbation of his
various emotions, his thoughts seldom went
to Ladysrood : when they did so they were
mingled with as much of displeasure as of self-reproach.
The waywardness of his pride made
him consider that his wife owed apology to him
and must be the first to approach him. Meanwhile
he was glad of that cessation of correspondence
which to her seemed so tragic and
so terrible, but to him appeared but of slight
moment. His whole intelligence and volition
were for the moment absorbed in the effort to
compel some revelation of her real thoughts
from the Duchess Soria. He was well used to
meet on terms of polite indifference women in
whose book of life he had written the tenderest
pages ; to greet with pleasant cordiality those
who had parted from him in anguish and tears,
or in fury and reproach. But her indifference
became to him an hourly increasing torture.

Why will you always avoid me .^ ' he said
to her at last in desperation, finding his opportunity
after many days.

I am not aware that I avoid you,' she
answered. ' I received you constantly in London,
and I would have come to your house of
Ladysrood had not your party been broken up
by death ; you are unreasonable, my friend.'

For God's sake, do not banish me to that
name ! '

Are you not my friend ? Surely you are
not my enemy ? though perhaps I should be
justified if I were yours.'

Guild troy grew white with anger.

Do not let us fence in this useless fashion.
You must know, you must have seen, that
I feel to you now wholly as of old. Nay, I
feel more — ten thousand times more ! '

What sheer caprice ! '

Not anyway caprice. It is the entire
truth. You, who are so fully aware of your
power over men, should be the last to be
astonished at it.'

I am astonished at no human inconsistencies
; but I confess that, said by you to me,
these things seem rather like insult than like
homage.'

Why ? '

How can you ask me why ? You broke

off your relations with me with scarcely more
consideration than if you had been a rapin
datelier and I a sewing girl, and because regrets
assail you now, for the results of your
own action, you expect me to be touched by
your expressions of them! '

I did not know my own heart.'

Nay, I think you knew it well enough ;
you only obeyed all its most frivolous and
faithless instincts. Or, rather, the heart said
but very little ; it was the passions which were
in question.'

You are wholly unjust.'

She gave a gesture of impatience.

Men always consider us unjust to them
when we fail to deify their weaknesses.'

'You are unjust when you doubt that my feeling
for you was, and is, the strongest of my life.'

The strongest of your life, in which nothing
is strong, perhaps,' she said with
restrained scorn. ' Why make to me these
vain and useless protestations? You took
your own way. It is not my fault if it have
led you into paths not pleasant to you.'

If you would only believe in my sincerity
and my remorse ! '

Why should I believe in either ? You do
not seem to me to know what sincerity or any
other deep emotion means. You make love tome
and you marry another woman. You tire
of that other woman and you imagine that you
only love me. It is impossible for any woman
to attach much importance to your sentiments
or to believe that they can be of any steadfastness
or duration.'

He was silent ; embarrassed by the consciousness
of the truth contained in her accusation,
and impressed by his impotency to
convince her that nevertheless she did him not
injustice.

You have had the only great love of my
life,' he said, with emotion. ' In a moment 'of
ingratitude and blindness I was false to you.
I imagined that I could live without you. I
have repented my mistake ever since ; I have
been punished more than you can know or
would believe.'

She interrupted him with impatience.

'Pray do not put any blame on your wife ; ]
admire her exceedingly. You place her in most
painful and difficult positions, and for so young
a woman she conducts herself in them with nrreat

tact and composure. She is essentially highbred,
ad I believe that she deserves a better
fate than to go unloved through life ; possibly
she will not go unloved ! '

For Heaven's sake do not speak of her ! '

Why should I not ? She has behaved admirably
to me ; and, as far as I can judge,
admirably to you also. I pity her very sincerely.
You are incapable of making any
woman happy because you are incapable of
being true to any."

I am true to you ! I have always been
true to you, except in one mad, ungrateful
moment, which I have repented every year of
my life ever since ! '

She smiled coldly.

The truth has had many variations ! Do
you suppose I have been ignorant of all of your
distractions ? Your wife may have perhaps,
but not I.'

He coloured as she spoke.

'They have been mere caprices, mere
follies ; none have ever touched my heart. That
I swear before Heaven ! '

How truly a man's excuse ! A man
always considers it apology enough for inconstancy



if lie can declare that his infidelity has
been a mere soulless drunkenness of the senses,
for which he ought to blush ! Other women
may see excuse in such a plea ; /do not.'

I thought you more lenient, more omniscient


You thought me more credulous. You
forget that you taught me a lesson which the
most credulous of women could not forget if
she would.'

I made the immense, the irrevocable mistake
of putting my heart into my relations with
you. The one who does so is always the one
who suffers in any relation of that sort. The
mistake is rarely mutual.'

He felt a sense of powerlessness which was
the acutest pain his life had ever known ; how,
in the face of his abandonment, could he ever
persuade her to believe that he had loved, and
did now love, her more than any other woman
he had ever known .^

We were so happy once ! ' he said, with a
timidity almost boyish.

It seemed to him an insult to her to recall
to her memory joys which had been insufficient
to sustain and retain his fidelity.

A profound indignation flushed in the
depths of her luminous eyes.

Spare me that allusion at least ! ' she said,
with scorn and passion.

She rose from her seat and moved onward.
But he stopped her.

Tell me one thing,' he said with breathless
agitation. ' Is it true what they say, that you
will accept the hand of the Grand Duke ? '

You have not the smallest figment of title
to ask me such a question,' she replied with
some anger. ' You have nothing to do with
my life, in any way. I do not, however, mind
telling you that my experiences of marriage
have not been such as to make me inclined to
risk another. What could any man give to me
that I have not? And I wholly agree with
Balzac that marriage is la plus grand e sottise
a laquelle I'humaniU est sacrifice.' I accepted
your marriage without reproach. I received
and visited your wife, I know nothing more
that you could possibly await from me. You
have certainly lost all possible title to interrogate
me on any subject. You have never seemed to
understand that you passed on me the deepest
affront that any man can pass on any woman.'

But if you forgave that ? '

Who said that I forgave ? Not I. It is
your own assumption. I neither chastised nor
rebuked it, because to do either would have
been beneath me. We leave theatrical scenes
to women of the theatres. But between silence
and pardon there are leagues to traverse ; I
have never passed them. Probably I never
shall'

With that she left him and approached a
group of acquaintances who were playing a
round game of cards in the mid-day sunshine
under one of the great pines.

VOL. II. H

CHAPTEE Xxxviii.

On that same day, Lady Sunbury arrived
at Ladysrood, unannounced, bringing her
youngest daughter with her ; a girl not yet in
the world.

My dear,' she said affectionately, ' I saw
in the papers that my brother has gone out of
England ; it is unpardonable of him to have
left you alone at such a time, so young as you
are and the world so unpleasant as it is. I
have brought Constance to stay with you, and
I will stay myself as long as I can. I suppose
Evelyn will not be many weeks away. Where
has he gone ? '

Gladys answered her with what composure
and apparent carelessness she could.

The presence of her sister-in-law was very
painful to her. She could not forget that
what Hilda Sunbury had told her in the beech-walk
on the day of her father's death had

brought about the scene with Guilders which
had separated them more hopelessly than
they had ever been separated before.

Lady Sunbury was at this moment moved
by the most excellent motives, and actuated
by a sense of self-blame which was almost
remorse. It would have been remorse in a
character less certain of its own perfections
than was hers. She knew that she had pained
and distressed John Vernon needlessly in the
last hours of his life, and she heard often in
memory those farewell words of his, ' Be kind
to her.' She was conscious that she had not
been kind to her brother's wife. She knew
that she had worried, annoyed, and wounded
her many a time, and that in what she hed
revealed to her concerning the Duchess Soria,
she had been mainly instrumental in bringing
about what her own penetration suspected to
be the cause of Guilders 's sudden departure
from England.

She was an admirably conscientious woman,
though, like so many conscientious persons, she
was wholly ignorant that she was often intensely
disagreeable, and even at times very
dangerous, from the unwise and irritating

K 2

things which her conscience impelled her to
say and to do.

In coming to Ladysrood she was sincerely
desirous to put the regis of her own presence
there, and that of her young daughter, between
Gladys and the evil comments of the world.
It had been inconvenient to her to leave her
own great house of Illington at that moment,
and to sacrifice many important social engagements
; but she had made the sacrifice with
the most admirable intentions, and with that
great regard for the reputation of the head of
her family which Guilders had so often, and
so hardly tried. But all the purity and integrity
of her intentions could not make her presence
otherwise than an intense irritation and oppression
to her brother's wife.

All wounded animals long to be alone ; and
solitude would have been the only possible balm
to the wounds of Gladys, stung to the quick as
she was by pain, and missing, as she did every
hour of her life, the sense of the near presence
of her father's wise and gentle influence. The
constant sound of Lady Sunbury's voice, reiterating
as it did all maxims of worldly wisdom,
and shrewd, cold, common sense, became

to her a positive torture which intensified all
other suffering in her. The presence even of
the young girl, who was impatient of the
dulness of Ladysrood, and full of all those
artificial and worldly longings which fill the
breasts of debutantes^ was an additional trial to
her. Sorrow is bad enough at any time to bear ;
but its bitterness is tenfold when we cannot
shut ourselves up with it in peace, but must at
every moment listen to a never-ending stream
of commonplace remarks, and affect sympathy
with commonplace desires and regrets. The
curiosity of Lady Sunbury, moreover, was
keen ; and without descending absolutely to the
coarseness of questioning, she endeavoured, by
every indirect means in her power, to discover
what had passed between Guilders and his
wife on the subject of Beatrice Soria.

But Gladys told her nothing ; and the
long, quiet days of the fading summer passed
in infinite ennui to the guests, and in intolerable
weariness of soul to the mistress of Lady's
The only peaceful moments which she
knew were when she sat alone by the grave
of her father on the thyme-grown cliffs above
the sea at Chris tslea.

She felt so utterly alone. Whilst he had
lived she had thought herself wretched indeed ;
but now it seemed to her that no hopeless
sorrow could ever have touched her so long as
his noble intelligence and wise affection had
been there to shield her from her own passions,
and console her for their disappointment.

She had not answered the letter which
Guilders had left for her on the evening of
his departure.

At least she had sent no answer. She had
written scores of sheets to him, but had burned
them all, dissatisfied with their utter inadequacy
to describe her own emotions.

And after all what was there to say ? He
had married her believing that he would care
for her ; and he had found himself unable todo
-SO ; either from his fault or hers, or neither
or both. What matter which ? What words
could alter that? What reproach could
change, or what entreaty could regain, his
heart ? In truth it had never been hers.

She suffered all the tortures which wring
the inmost soul of a woman who loves what
has been hers, and knows that all its charm,
its senses, its time, its emotions, are given to

Others, and can never be recalled to her. Men
can so easily console themselves for lost passions
; even where their hearts ache, their
physical pleasures can so easily be gratified by
those who do not touch their hearts, that they
cannot understand the wholly irreparable loss
that the desertion of her lover is to a woman
who can only receive happiness through one
alone. He can vary his caprices at will ; but
she, if she loves with all her senses and her
soul, believes that she will never find any
means to fill up the blank made in her whole
life by his abandonment.

To the mind of Lady Sunbury the lot of
her sister-in-law still seemed perfectly enviable :
a great position, unlimited command of money,
and the power to do whatever she liked unmolested
constituted a fate which to Hilda
Sunbury, as to the world, appeared one with
which it was hypercriticism and ingratitude
indeed not to be content. Well regulated
minds, like Lady Sunbury 's, cannot conceive
why any woman requires more than the tranquil
monotony of a blameless life, large houses
to rule over, and a purse always filled.

To these excellent minds the senses are

sins, the passions are follies, and the besoin
damer is wholly unmentionable. Such gross
things are believed in and alluded to by poets,
they know ; but they think poets mad, and at
all events poets are no rule for women who
respect themselves.

This opinion, either insinuated or more
fully expressed, was the burden of all Lady
Sunbury's conversation during her stay at
Ladysrood, at all such times as her daughter
was not in her presence. She believed, and
many virtuous women believe with her, that
virtue is like a nail ; only hammer at it often
enough and long enough and you must end in
driving it into any substance whatever.

She knew the world too well not to know
all the temptations and dangers which must
surround in it such a woman as Gladys when
left alone in the midst of its risks and its
seductions ; and on these she dwelt, and on
the duties of all women to resist them she
was so persistently eloquent, that she raised
in the breast of her hearer a passionate longing
to fling duty to the winds, and drove her more
nearly from patience and self-control than any
injury could have done, made her long as she

had never longed for that vengeance of which
she had begun of late to dream. While every
fibre of her heart was aching, and every pulse
of her existence seemed throbbing with pain,
she had to endure as best she could the platitudes
and the stiff sonorous phrases with which
her guest proclaimed the all-sufficing beauties
of virtue and self-esteem.

If she would but leave me alone ! ' she
thought ; but this is just what women of Lady
Sudbury's type never do.

The days and the weeks passed, and she
heard nothing directly from Guilders, although
he wrote to his steward. His sister came and
went, but she left Lady Constance there always,
and the discontent of the girl, impatient of her
exile from the gay gatherings of the autumn
parties at Illington, mingled with her premature
worldliness, and undisguised selfishness,
were almost as trying to Gladys in one
way as the companionship of the mother in
another.

The routine of the tedious days became
almost unendurable to her ; the monotonous
repetition of commonplace observations seemed
to her like that torture in which a drop of

water was let fall on a prisoner's head every
second, until he went mad or died with it.

Lady Sunbury was of too keen an observation
not to be well aware of the torment her
presence was, but in the cause of duty she
never wavered, and she considered it her duty
not to leave so young a woman as her brother's
wife alone; and she sacrificed herself or her
daughter to that conviction with that resolution
which made her so trying and so unsympathetic
to those whom she benefited.

At such times as Gladys could get away
from her, she passed her hours at Christslea,
or shut up in the library writing, and then
destroying, hundreds of letters to her husband.


Perhaps if all of them could have been sent
to him, and he had had the patience to read
them, he would have reached more comprehension
of her character than he had ever
attained. All her aching, wounded, rebellious
heart was uttered in them ; knowing no other
confidant possible she made a confessor of the
reams of paper which she spoiled. But she
sent nothing of what she wrote. When read
over to herself, they all seemed too tender or

too violent, to assert too vehemently or to entreat
too piteously.

She had great pride in her, and she could
not bring herself to send to him anything
which looked like an appeal of the affections.
He did not care whether she loved him or
not. Why should she tell him that she did ?

At times she remembered that he had reproached
her with never seeking to win his
affections. Was it true that shyness in the first
months of her life with him, and pride and
jealousy afterwards, had frozen in her warmth
which might have won his confidence? She
remembered that her father even had charged
her with seeming cold.

She was very young still, and she was utterly
solitary, and she passed many hours of misery
recalling every incident of these past four years,
and torturing herself with those vain and cruel
wishes which cry out to the past to come back,
that we may undo, and unsay, all that has been
done and been said in it.

At last she wrote one which satisfied her in
so far as it seemed to her to express her sense
of indignity and wrong without descending to
appeal.

It was worded thus ;

After what passed between us on the last
day that you were here, it is impossible for me
to believe, or for you to pretend, that I am in
any kind of way necessary to, or desired in,
your life. You have told me, in the most undisguised
terms, that you regret that I ever
had any association with your life whatever.
You cannot regret it more than I do. As I
ventured to remind you once before, the act
was yours, not mine. The only way in which
the mistake of it can be in any measure rectified,
is for me to leave you. The little fortune
which was left to my father on the day of his
death is mine, and is more than enough for
all my wants. I only await your permission,
which I cannot believe will be refused, to leave
Ladysrood, and seek some solitude, where
under my maiden name I may endeavour to
forget that I ever had the misfortune to become
your wife.'

She read this again and again, scanning it
carefully and critically, to make sure that it
contained no word which could flatter him, or
imply in her any infirmity of purpose, or
yearning of affection. Her future was wholly



obscure to her ; she did not dare to drag consideration
of it into the clear light of reason
and actuality. All she felt was a violent longing
to cease to be his wife in name, since she
had never been so in heart, and to eat his
bread, and rule his house, and spend his gold
no more. Other women might be content with
that purely conventional position ; she was not :
he had made life intolerable to her ; let the
whole world know that he had done so.

She was no mere meek blind puppet to
gratify him by appearing at his side at Court,
and bearing children to his name, whilst all the
joys and interests and passions of his life were
found elsewhere. No doubt he would prefer that
she should be one of those patient, passionless,
sightless women who would go through all the
ceremonies of society beside him, and leave
him free, without the world's censure, to find
pleasure and sentiment in the arms of others.
But she was not one of those — and all that even
her father had asked of her was to forbear from
avenging desertion by dishonour.

She read the letter again and again, and
could find no flaw in it. It asserted only what
it was her perfect right to claim.

He could not compel her to stay on in his
houses, only that by her presence there he
might have more facility for inviting under his
roof all those on whom his caprice fastened for
the hour.

She signed it ' Gladys Vernon ' and sealed
the envelope of it with her father's arms.

Then a remembrance came to her of such
humiliation, that her white cheeks grew red
with the shame of it, where she sat in solitude.
She did not know where to address him ; she
would have to inquire of his land-agent where
he was.

As she paused, looking at the undirected
envelope, meditating whether, to avoid such
confession of ignorance, she should address
it to the English Embassy in Paris, and let it
take its chance, the groom of the chambers
entered the library

Lord Aubrey has arrived, my lady,' said
the man, ' and asks if you will receive him.'

CHAPTEE XXXIX.

My dear Gladys, I had no time to let you
know,' said Aubrey a moment after, ' for I was
uncertain myself until last night that I should be
able to accept the invitation of your county to
their banquet. I have only two hours to spend
with you ; but that is better than nothing.
You look ill, dear. But that is natural. So
irreparable a calamity as yours cannot be borne
without suffering, which is in itself an illness.' ^
She was glad to see him ; the frank warm
sympathy of his words, the grasp of his hands,
the sense of his kindly and staunch sincerity
were always precious to her. After the platitudes
of Hilda Sunbury, they seemed like a
fresh sea wind after the dull close air of some
shut chamber. Yet a certain uneasiness which
she had never felt before made her constrained
and troubled under the searching and earnest
gaze of his eyes. She knew that she had done

what he would blame ; she knew that she had
written what he would blame still more.

It must be a consolation to you to be
absorbed in public life ? ' she said wistfully.

It takes one out of oneself,' he replied.
All work does so ; but national work most of
all.'

You have so much to think of,' she said
evasively, ' you could not be unhappy.'

Aubrey Alas silent.

I have nothing to think of,' she added,
except my father.'

Ah, dear ! What did I tell you .? There
is no irremediable sorrow except death.'

They were alone in the gardens into which
they had strolled. Lady Sunbury was away fora
few days, the girl had gone out riding on the
moors ; there had been rain in the morning,
but the early afternoon was tine though sunless.
There was the warm glow of autumnal flowers
everywhere.

Why is Evelyn away? ' he asked. ' Have
you done that which I besought you not to do ?
I hoped to find you drawn nearer to him. He
was sincerely afflicted at the loss you sustained.'

Yes. He was fond of my father.'

Her voice trembled ; the tears rose to lier
eyes.

^V'^'\ n-e^ \\ ; ) sorrow should

liavt" raised you ? '

He does not even write to me ! ' she said
with indignation. ' He only writes to Ward
and Brandon.'

They where his land-agent and his house-steward.


He probably does not know what to say
to you,' replied Aubrey. ' When men are in
false positions they generally avoid writing.
We are all mora] cowards, I assure you. He
is not more so than the rest of us. We dislike
to give pain, and our dislike to doing so
usually brings about more pain in the end
than if we had frankly grasped the truth at
the first.'

He is your cousin ; it is natural that you
should take his part.'

I have not deserved that rebuke from you,
Gladys.'

There was the scent of wet grass and fallen
leaves, and the sound of the fountains came
through the perfect silence, monotonous and
melodious.

VOL. II. s

'Did you ever lose any one you loved
greatly? ' she asked him.

Yes,' he replied. ' I lost one whom I
loved immensely ; yet for whose loss I was
thankful, since her life would have been a
greater torture to me than her death was.'

That must have been terrible ? '

There is nothing so terrible.'

She did not ask more. She was absorbed
in that selfishness which is begotten in the
most generous natures by the suffering of the
affections. She could not rouse herself from it
to enter into the life of another. Aubrey saw
that her thoughts were not with him, and the
impulse of confidence which had momentarily
moved him Alas checked.

Did you know that he loved the Duchess
Soria ? ' she asked abruptly. The question
troubled and embarrassed her companion ; he
answered with hesitation :

Who could be infamous enough to tell
you that ? It was before his marriage.'

It might be before. But he loves her still
now ; he has never really loved any other
woman ; he has told me so.'

A hostage,' said Aubrey angrily. ' One

of his innumerable hostages. He is like
Horace's wayward child :

Porrigis erato piero quum pomp ; recusant :
Some, catella ; neat : si non des ; optat. . . .'

That is why he adores her ; she is withdrawn
from him. I have never found the fruit
that he would court, given or withdrawn,' said
Gladys bitterly.

She was thinking of her husband's easy
acquiescence in her own withdrawal from him.

Pardon me, dear,' said Aubrey tenderly ;
but I think you have never endeavoured to
understand his character enough to soothe or
influence him. You have loved him no doubt ;
but you have given to your love that are and
exacting complexion which alienates any man,
and, most of all, a man as self-indulgent ancT as
universally caressed as he. Forgive me if I
seem to blame you. I know he has made life
difficult for you.'

Will you read what I have written to
him?'

She took a letter from her pocket, and held
it out to him.

I have written many others and destroyed
them. They seemed too insolent. Head this ! '



It was the letter which she had written that
morning.

Aubrey sat down on a bench under one of
the cedars, and read it. She could tell nothing
from the expression of his countenance. He
folded it up, and gave it back to her.

If your father were living, he would not
let you send it.'

She coloured ; she knew that already.

To send it will be to sever your life forever
from Guilders's. Anger is a bad counsellor.
You will live on the excitation of anger for a
few months ; it is like a drug ; it supplies all
the natural forces of life for a time only to
leave them utterly prostrate when its effects
have passed. You are just now in that state
of intense pain and violent indignation in which
a woman has before now murdered the man
who loved and wronged her. But when the
heat and wrath of this hour pass, as they will
pass, you will regret it to the last day of your
life if, of your own will and accord, you break
the bonds of your affections, and make it
utterly impossible for them ever to be reunited.'


She was silent. She was seated beside him

on the bench. Her head was turned away,
but he could see her emotion in the strong
throbbing of the vein of her throat.

You write and 3'ou speak,' continued
Aubrey, ' as if he had left you forever ; he
has intimated no intention whatever of doing
so ; he has gone away for a few weeks as he
has often done before, and you have then
thought nothing of it. When he returns, receive
him as usual. Be sure that he will
appreciate your forbearance and your kindness.
Men often seem ungrateful, but I do
not think they are often so for real tenderness.'


Receive him when he comes from her I '

'From "her" or any other 'her." Why
do you take for granted that he is now
the lover of the Duchess Soria ? Myself, I do
not believe that he is. She is a very proud
woman, and his rupture with her was public
and sudden ; the kind of offence which a proud
woman never forgives ; for she had done
nothing to bring it about or to merit it.'

And I am to be grateful if she now refuses
his homage ! '

You are perverse, my dear,' said Aubrey,

sadly. ' I do not tell you to be grateful ; I
tell you to be generous. They are very different
things. And at the risk of wounding you,
Gladys, I must confess that what you feel now
is much more irritated self-love, than it is love
at all.'

She rose impetuously, and walked with
quick, uneven steps to and fro upon the grass ;
her sombre dress enhanced the fairness of her
face, the golden glow of her hair, the darkness
of her eyes and lashes, as the full light poured
down on her through the branches of the trees.
She did not look a woman to share the fate of
Ariadne. Aubrey looked at her and his vision
was troubled, and his calm wisdom and unselfishness
were disturbed in their balance.
Did his cousin deserve that he should plead
thus for him ? Did the wanderer, who
shunned no Ogygia wherein white arms
beckoned to him, merit so much fidelity, so
much forbearance ?

And yet she loved him. What hope was
there for her except in such patience and such
pardon as might in time bring her reward ?

May I tear the letter up ? ' he asked her.

If you wish,' she said, reluctantly.

And will you promise me not to write any
other like it ? '

I cannot promise that.'

And yet, dear, I ask the promise more for
your sake than his. If you leave him you can
wound his pride certainly, and humble him
before the world ; but that will be all, for he
will seek and find consolation. But if you, of
your own act, sever the tie which unites you,
you will be for ever miserable, for you will
never forgive yourself.'

She was silent; her eyes watched the
shadows of the leaves swaying upon the grass ;
she was unconvinced, angered, mortified,
almost sullen. It seemed to her that her
wrongs were wide as the universe, and no one
pitied them.

At that moment Lady Constance ran down
the terrace steps coming from her ride ; she
was calling uproariously to the dogs who had
been with her ; she brought a boisterous rush
of youthful energy and spirits : Gladys felt very
old beside her.

They were no more alone, and in half-an-hour
he had to take leave of her, for his presence
was expected that evening at a political

banquet in the county town some fifty miles
away.

Promise me, for your father's sake,' he
murmured as he bade her adieu.

She sighed, and her mouth trembled, but
she did not promise. She looked at the fragments
of the torn letter lying on the ground :
she knew every phrase of it by heart ; she
could write it again in ten minutes.

After he had left her she walked to and
fro restlessly and wearily in the grey, soft,
autumnal afternoon. The silence was unbroken
except now and then by the caw of a
rook ; the great facade of the house stretched
before her, stately and noble, with the greatness
on it of a perished time ; the solemn
stillness of the woods and moors enveloped
it ; there was that in its very beauty and
majesty which hurt her more than any unloveliness
would have done. She remembered the
day when she had come thither first, withall
a child's eager curiosity, a child's ardent
imagination. It was not so very long ago in
years ; and yet how old she felt !

What was he doing now ?

That was the thought which tortured her

every hour of the day and night. In absence
and uncertainty, distance seems to grow up
like the wall of a great prison between us and
the one whose face we cannot see, whose voice
we cannot hear, and whose time and whose
thoughts are given we know not where, only
are not, we do know, given to us.

She was jealous of other women — of any
woman, of all women — with a passionate
physical jealousy which was intolerable pain
and as intolerable an humiliation. He had
thought her cold because the first few weeks
of his early love for her had left with her such
ineffable, such undying, remembrance, that the
mere caresses of habit were unendurable to
her after them. She knew all that ecstasy,
ardour, and the might of a master passion,
could give ; and she had been utterly unable
to resign herself to the mere occasional formality
of a joyless embrace. With all the
intensity of life in her which youth, and
strength and perfect health could give to her,
she had been utterly unable to endure that
passionless position of the mere possible
mother of his children, to which he had
relegated her. It was because such warmth

and force of passion were in her that she had
seemed passionless to him, because she had
refused to take from habit what love denied
to her. And now all that passion in her felt
was the most cruel, the most torturing, of all
pain ; the pain of a totally impotent jealousy ;
a jealousy which hides itself from public eyes,
from pride, but makes wretched every single
thought of the brain and impulse of the heart,
robs night of sleep, and renders daylight
hateful.

Men are intolerant of the jealousy of
women, but they might be more indulgent toit
than they are if they remembered its excuse.
Stendahl has justly said that the pain of
jealousy is so intolerable to a woman because
it is so wholly impossible for her to follow
in absence the life of the man she loves, so
wholly impossible for her to measure his sincerity,
or to be sure of his truth in any way.
The man can watch the woman, can test her
in a thousand ways, can haunt her steps and
prove her fidelity ; but she can do nothing of
this in return. If he chose to lie to her she
must be deceived ; and the more loyal, the
more delicate, the more generous her nature,

the more are all means of learning the truth of
his words and the facts of his actions forbidden
to her.

Toujours les delicate souffrent I ' And this
is as true of love as of life.

CHAPTEE XL.

The afternoon was growing dark, and the
low red sun was glowing behind dark clouds
as she turned to ascend the terrace steps.

The young Constance was sitting disconsolately
all alone with the dogs about her.

'I am afraid you are very dull here,' said
Gladys, as she saw the girl's attitude.

It is as dull as death ! ' said the girl
pettishly.

Gladys' face changed, and the look of
momentary sympathy passed out of it.

'I will beg your mother to let you go
home,' she answered. ' It is very painful tome
to feel you are here against your will, and
I shall do perfectly well alone.'

Why do you not go abroad? ' asked the
girl. ' You might enjoy yourself endlessly.
Oh, I know you are in mourning just now ; but

it was just the same when you were not. You
never enjoyed anything.'

Perhaps not,' said Gladys, thinking of the
days when she had enjoyed every hour of her
existence, on the moors and by the sea, when
to feel her boat bound with the tide, and hear
the lark sing above the gaze, and watch a
nest of young chaffinches in the orchard
boughs, or the play of young rabbits on the
moorland turf, had been happiness enough for
her — such simple natural country-born happiness
as this girl had never known.

'He is enjoying himself; why should not you?
Nobody wears deep mourning long now, and
nobody makes any difference for it while they
do,' said Lady Constance, holding up one of the
newspapers which lay in her lap, and pointing
with her finger to a paragraph in one of them.

Gladys looked involuntarily where she
pointed. It was a description of an autumnal
party then assembled at one of the great
chateaux of France ; and amongst the names of
the guests were printed those of Guilders and
the Duchess Soria.

Always those journals ! ' said Gladys, as
she motioned it aside in disgust.

They are very indiscreet, sometimes,' said
the girl cruelly, with a malicious smile.

Gladys said nothing, but passed by her
tormentor and went indoors.

What a fool she is to care ! ' thought Lady
Constance.

In the morning very early a mounted
messenger brought a letter from Aubrey, which
he had written over night before leaving the
town.

It is impossible for me to see you yet
again, my dear Gladys,' he wrote, ' though I
will endeavour to do so next month. Meanwhile
I once more entreat you to do nothing
rashly. The only possible consolation for us
in sorrow is when we are able to feel that we
have done nothing to deserve or hasten it.
Perfect patience with those we love gives us
this solace if it gives us no other. Very likely
your wrongs are less grave than you think ;
but even if they are more so, still do nothing
rashly.

You have a high sense of honour, and
having this you must feel that as you accepted
the charge of your husband's good name you
must, in honour, do nothing to imperil it.



And forgive me, dear, if I add that in all your
expressions, whether written or spoken, I
found much more of the evidence of a sense of
injury than I found of the unselfishness which
is the highest note of love.

'I am a man, as you know, in whose
harassed and busied life neither poetry nor love
have any place, but I remember reading, I
forget here or how, some lines which have
haunted my memory ever since. They are
these :

Though you forget,
No word of mine shall mar your pleasure.

Though you forget
You fill'd my barren life with treasure ;
You may withdraw the gift you gave,
You still are queen, I still am slave,

Though you forget.

Now it is the heart which says as much
as this, even when forsaken, which to my
thinking loves ; and no heart which says less
than this does love. It may throb with rage,
fret with jealousy, smart with pain, but it does
not love. What, after all, dear, is any human
life that it should exact as its right remembrance
from another ?

Whether we have that right or not, weare
only either wise or tender when we waive

it wholly, and are content to give our devotion
without seeking or asking for any recompense
whatever. If you give such feeling as this to
Evelyn now, some day or other be sure that
you will have your reward.

Whether he deserves it or not is wholly
beside the question. It is our own life, our
own character, which should determine the
measure and standard of what we give — not
those of the person to whom we give it.

Pardon me this homily, dear, which I
write when I am very fatigued, at long after
midnight. I endeavour to say to you what I
believe your father would say to you if he
were now living. Who knows that he may
not stand behind me as I write this, though
my gross senses cannot perceive his presence ?
We know little of life, nothing whatever of
death. All things are possible. The only
thing which always seems to me utterly impossible
is that a great mind can ever die.
I am affectionately yours,

Francis.'

CHAPTEE XLI.

The essay on Friendship which Aubrey had
read one year before, chanced to catch his eye
where it lay on one of the library tables at
Balfrons a few weeks after he had left Lady's
; and the sight of it suggested to him a
course which would have its drawbacks and its
dangers, but which offered to him some chance
of being of service to a life which was constantly
growing more dear to him, but which,
as it did so, awakened all that self-denial which
was the strongest quality in his nature.

If I love thee what is that to thee ? ' he
mused. ' Or to any one ? '

It would be for ever a secret locked in his
own breast, for his self-control was a force
which had never yet failed him.

It was difficult for him to leave England at
that moment, for he was in office, and the
drudgery of high place seldom relaxes much

VOL. IL T

even in the months of comparative liberty.
But it was possible to get away for a few
days without awaking too much comment in
that Argus-eyed public which is for ever seeing
what does not exist, and the week after he had
been at Ladysrood found him in Paris. There
he learned that his cousin had ended his visits
to French chateaux and had gone to his own
palace in Venice. Although, as a rule, he condemned
all interference of the kind, and did
not even now expect much from it, it still
seemed to him that some one should endeavour
to recall Guilders to his duties, and he saw
no one who could do so with any possibility of
success unless it were himself. After long and
anxious reflection he decided to attempt it.

When he reached Venice, the November day
was full of warm and limpid sunshine sparkling
on green water, shining marbles, and ruddy
canvas. It was towards evening, and Guilders
was at home ; he received his cousin with
cordiality, which was more apparent than real,
for he felt an uneasy consciousness that Aubrey
had not come thither without some especial
reason, and some apprehension of its nature
moved him.

Aubrey stated, indeed, that he was only
there for a few hours and was going to Vienna
by way of Udine.

'I am leaving myself very soon,' said
Guilders. ' I am going southward or I would
accompany you.'

Southward ? ' said Aubrey, and looked him
full in the face.

Yes,' replied the other in the tone of a
man who is prepared to resent any comment
on his statement, and resist any interrogation.

Not homeward ? ' asked Aubrey.

Not at present.'

Aubrey made no further remark, and they
dined together, conversing on the political situation
in England, and other topics of the ho4n\
After dinner they sat on the balcony which
overhung the water above the Rialto bridge ;
the night was cold but the skies were brilliant
with innumerable stars, and a full moon, golden
and glorious, shone down on Venice.

Which is life ? ' thought Aubrey : ' to
dream here under the stars in all this amorous
stillness, or to have every hour of the day filled
as mine is with the pressure of public business
and the conflict of men's tongues ? '

T 2

But he did not say this ; he said instead :

You have never asked me if I have seen
your wife.'

I am sure that you have, without asking,'
said Guilders, almost insolently, for he was
extremely angered at what he foresaw that he
was about to hear. Aubrey passed over the
tone and the words.

I was reading again your essay on Friendship,
at Balfrons the other day,' he said instead.
It is very clever and entirely true. But one
thing seemed to me very odd as I read it.'

'That I should have written it at all, I
should think,' said Guilders.

No ; but that all your admirable remarks
lead to so little observance of your own rules
in your own relationships. One cannot but see
that with your wife '

What of my wife ? ' said Guilders very
angrily. ' She is perpetually making me scenes
of upbraiding. I cannot live in them.'

But you do not even write to her .^ '

'I do not write, because she offended me
very gravely.'

Did she offend you without warrant ? '

I do not say that, but she began reproaches

which would be interminable if one stayed to
hear them. She must have complained of me
to you, or what would you know ? '

Be thankful if she complain to no one but
me, my dear Evelyn. And complaint is not the
correct word. I asked about you of course,
and she confessed that you had left her in anger
and that you did not write to her — and that
she could only hear where you were through
Brandon or Ward.'

Guilders was silent.

Well,' said Aubrey, with some hesitation,
' do you consider that you render her
happy ? '

I do not admit that any person has the
right to ask me such a question,' he said with
increasing anger.

I told you I had left my good manners
outside the door, as one leaves one's slippers in
Persia,' said Aubrey. ' As I have intruded sofar
without them, I will come a step farther.
I am conscious of my rashness, but we were
children together, and I will risk offending you.
Do you consider that you have done what you
could have done to keep the promises you made
to John Vernon ? '

Guillemot moved impatiently. ' What did
Vernon ever tell you ? '

He never told me anything. But I am
quite sure that you must have promised him
infinite consideration for his daughter, or he
would never have given her to you. He was
not a man to care for rank and fortune.'

And what would you imply ? ' asked
Guilders with great hauteur.

It is not my habit to imply,' said Aubrey
coldly. ' I always say what I mean ; and say
it as clearly as I can. I mean and I say now,
that Vernon would never have given you his
daughter if he had foreseen that you would be
as inconstant to her as you are.'

'I do not consider,' said Guilders, with
great difficulty controlling his anger, ' that even
our relationship warrants you in such intrusion
on my private affairs.'

Oh, I have said I have left good manners
outside the door for the moment,' said Aubrey
indifferently. ' There come times in life when
one must choose between being discourteous,
or being cowardly, and in that dilemma I
always choose the former as the lesser fault.
I must venture to remind you, if you have

forgotten it, that to leave so young a woman as
Gladys all alone is to expose her to a thousand
perils

Guild troy reddened slightly, partly with
anger, partly with the consciousness that his
cousin was right.

She is very cold, and she is very proud,'
he said impatiently. ' Such women are their
own protectors.'

A convenient theory, but not a true one :
ISIil Helena peccant may be fairly said of any
woman who is left alone.'

Are you inclined to act the part of Paris ? '
said Guilder oy with considerable scorn and
insolence, which his cousin forced himself not
to resent.

I am as much like Paris as you are
like Menelaus,' he said with admirable good
temper. ' But you must be aware, whether you
choose to admit it or not, that you invite misfortune
when you virtually abandon so young
and so lovely a woman as your wife.'

I do not abandon her in any sense of the
word,' said Guilders. 'She has everything
that my position, my respect, my fortune, can
bestow on her. I shall never cease to testify to

her every possible outward regard. I detest
the very smallest exhibition to the world of
disunion.'

But you see nothing injurious in the actual
existence of it ! My dear Guilders, can you
seriously think that a mere girl like Gladys,
always at heart in love with you and not cold
(though you imagine her so because you are
yourself cold to her), can be expected to be
content with nothing more than the conventional
pretence of union? Surely, with your
vast experience of the sex, you must know
them better than that.'

I cannot help it ! She is not sympathetic
to me ; it is a calamity, not a crime ! '

No woman whom you had married would
have been sympathetic to you for more than
three months,' thought Aubrey, but he did not
say so aloud.

Have you come here to read me a
homily ? ' continued Guilders with impatience
and hauteur.

Aubrey looked at him steadfastly.

That is beyond my pretensions. I am not
your keeper. But I frankly admit that I came
here to tell you one thing. I was at Ladysrood

for two hours. I found your wife in that state
of irritation, suffering, and offence, in which
a woman may easily fall at a bound from
perfect virtue to utter ruin and self-abandonment.
She is young ; she does not inherit her
father's philosophy ; she is profoundly unhappy,
and I thought that it was only right
that you should be made aware of it, for you
seem to think that a woman is like one of your
Lely or Reynolds which hang immovable in
your family portrait gallery, though you may
only glance at them once in twenty years.
My dear Evelyn, you have been the lover of
innumerable women ; recall all your experiences
of the wives of other men ; does not all
your knowledge tell you that your own wife
is now in a position of the greatest peril
which a sense of utter loneliness, and the
besoin d' aimer ungratified, can create for anyone
at her dangerous age ? '

Guild troy did not reply ; he rose and walked
up and down the long balcony with impatience
and uneasiness. His intelligence and his conscience
both made it impossible for him to
deny the force of his cousin's suggestions ; and
his mind, which was always open to reason

even when his passions obscured it, could not
but acknowledge the truth of them. A sudden
suspicion also flashed across his thoughts.

You do not mean ' he said abruptly.

'You do not mean that there is any one '

There is no one yet, certainly,' replied
Aubrey. ' But how long it may be before that
supreme temptation comes to her — who can
say? When it does come you cannot blame
her. She can with justice say to you, vous
I'avez voulu. I remind you again : Nil Helena
peccant.

Guilders was silent.

I cannot help it,' he said at last, uneasily.
I do not care for her. One cannot feign that
feeling.'

But why in heaven's name did you marry
her?'

I thought I cared. I did care a little
while. How can one account for these emotions
? My dear Francis, whatever faults I
may have, I am never consciously insincere.
If I seem to deceive women it is because I
deceive myself

That I entirely believe. But it is the more
hopeless for them. Nor can I sympathise with

you in any way. Yoii might have made of
her anything you chose if you had taken the
trouble.'

Guilders was silent.

He was thinking of the days when in the
cottage porch at Christslea lie had quoted to
John Vernon the et puer est, et nidus Amor.
And low wholly it had been with him as the
dead man had predicted !

He knew me better than I knew myself,'
he thought. ' And yet I was quite honest in
what I said then, and m what I urged.'

Yes,' said Aubrey, divining the course of
his reflections ; ' I believe you are always
entirely sincere, though very few people would
believe it. But the effect of your changes of
feeling is quite as disastrous to others as if you
were not. I think your estimate of Gladys is
wholly incorrect. I think she would even
interest you and attract you if you deigned to
occupy yourself with her character. I think
she is a woman who would be capable even of
making you passionately in love with her, if
she had not the irreparable fault of belonging
to you. But I have said all that I can possibly
claim the right to say — perhaps even more

than I ought to have said. I hope, however,
that you will pardon me, and think over what
I have suggested. I believe that you would
never forgive yourself if, through your neglect,
any dishonour came upon your home, or
even any very great wrong were done to the
memory of a dead man who trusted you.'

Then Aubrey rose, bade him good-night,
and quitted him.

Will it have done any good ? ' thought
Aubrey doubtfully. ' At all events, I have
done what little I could do for her.'

His own heart was heavy, for his self-imposed
mission had not been accomplished without
much pain to himself. Far more willingly,
had it been possible to do so, would he have
struck the man who could be faithless to her ;
far more willingly would he have espoused her
quarrel with the old rude weapons of violence ;
but to him they were forbidden by his sense of
dignity and duty, of position and of patriotism ;
and even if they had not been so, they would
have been of no earthly service to her. He had
little hope that anything would be of service.
In endeavouring to influence his cousin he felt
like a man who tries to make a solid dyke out

jM^

of the shifting sand. Sometimes the dyke is
made, but the sea is always there.

He left his cousin the tormented prey of
many conflicting emotions, of which the dominant
one was self-reproach, although almost as
strong a one was anger.

Amidst his self-reproach there was a strong
sense of anger against Aubrey, who had presumed
to interfere with him, and there was also
a vague jealousy. What title had his cousin to
espouse the cause of Gladys ? What right had
he to make himselfe confidant of her sorrows,
or the champion of her wrongs ? Her father
might have said all this, and would have had
the right to say it ; but he did not concede to
Aubrey any more right to do so than he would
have allowed to any one of the gondoliers then
idling at his water-gate.

A great irritation i.'ose up in him at the
thought of another man being the consoler and
adviser of his wife ; and he remembered how
constantly Aubrey had found time to visit at
Ladysrood in spring or in autumn, and to sit
with Gladys in her boudoir in the London
house, even in the pressure and hurry of a
crowded London season. He had been glad of

it at the time; he had even constantly thanked
his cousin for so much devotion to her interests ;
but now this intimacy wore to his eyes a less
agreeable and innocent aspect. Not that he
suspected for a moment Aubrey of any disloyal
intent. Aubrey's visit to himself proved his
loyalty, and testified to his candour ; but the
idea of his influence on Gladys and of his defence
ofherwas, tohim, exceedingly distasteful.

If he were married, should I ever presume
to take him to task about his wife ? ' he thought
with strong displeasure. The substance of
what Aubrey had said might be correct enough ;
it was the fact that he did say it at all which
constituted his offence.

Nevertheless the counsels, neither of his
friend nor of his conscience, were of weight
enough to turn his steps northwards. He left
Venice within a few days and passed on to
Naples.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PJUNJEU BY

SPOTJ'ISWOODE And CO., XEW-STKEliT SQUARE

LONDON

'i

mim

!*

!( V,' •' ■** ' ■

ff.^f

i'l

;^S

t-i

!!H|||^^

III.

BY

Ordain

THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


Ite right of translation is reset ved"}

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

Guilders.

CHAPTEE XLII.

Gladys did not send the letter she had written,
but neither did she comprehend the greatness
of the love which Aubrey called on her to
give. It was such love as her father had
counselled her to attain and striven to inspire
in her ; love which rises above all memories of
self, and pardons all offences against it as Godin
the dreams of mortals, pardons theirs. But
her years were too few, her heart was too sore,
her jealousy was too intense, her passions had
been too early excited, only to be left in solitude
and oblivion, for her to be able to reach
even in mere comprehension the height to
which Aubrey pointed.

The days and the weeks. passed on, and
winter came earlier to Ladysrood than it came

VOL. III. B

to the land where Guilders still found the
earth green and the skies and the seas smiling.
Always beautiful in all seasons, yet the great
house was austere and melancholy towards the
close of the year in the short dark days and
in the long silent nights. Its immense woods
were leafless, its gardens were cold and swept
by bitter winds blowing from the high moors
beyond ; on still days or nights, when the sea
was stormy, the sound of its breakers roaring
on the rocks three miles away was audible and
dreary as the very groan of Nature herself.

The young Lady Constance grew indignant
and rebellious beyond her power to conceal

If you would only go to Illington or
Balfrons ! ' she said fifty times a week ; and
one day she added insolently, ' Why should I
stay here to please you and my mother?
What are either of you afraid of? This place
is like a nunnery, like a prison. It is charming
enough in summer or autumn when it is
full of people, but now it would drive a saint
to madness. Have you any lover that they
are afraid should come to you ? Trust me if
you have and I will help you. If you tell me
nothing I will elope with one of the grooms.

It will be life at any rate, and it will make my
mother sorry she ever sent me here.'

Gladys did not reply, but a few hours after
she said to the girl, ' I am going to London
tomorrow. I will take you to Illington as I
pass through your county.'

The girl embraced her, and was beside
herself with joy. But she could not resist a
covert impertinence :

Aubrey is in London ! ' she said with a
rude smile.

I suppose he is, since there is to be a
winter session,' replied her hostess. 'I shall
not stay in London. I am going straight to
Paris.'

'I wish you would take me with you,'
said Lady Constance, repenting that she had
not made herself more agreeable, and hastily
computing the toilettes, evenness and pretty
things in general which she might have ' got
out ' of the mistress of Ladysrood if she had
concealed her own ennui and acquired influence.

I am very sorry, but I cannot do that for
you,' said Gladys. 'I will take you home,
where you have so much desired to be. That
is all I can do.'

b2

She was in that mood in which a woman
will rush on to her own torture or her own
destruction, and would not stay though a host
of angels and archangels stood in her way to
turn her back from her self-chosen path.

She drove rapidly through London from
one station to another ; at the latter she was,
to her surprise, met on the platform by
Aubrey. He had received a telegram from
Illington announcing her departure, and Lady
Sunbury had had only time to add, ' Prevent
her leaving England at all hazards ! '

The express was on the point of departure ;
he had no time to say a word ; he entered the
carriage with her.

I must speak to you,' he said hurriedly.
I can get back to the House by eleven o'clock.'

She did not reply ; she was annoyed and
offended. She resented this treatment of her
as of some imprudent child whom all his
family considered they had a right to control.

Aubrey looked tired and unwell.

Times in England were troubled, and
political life stormy and thankless. He did
not relax his energies ; but a weary sense grew
on him more strongly every year that the

combat was useless, and that, although still
veiled under Parliamentary formulae and constitutional
fictions, the country was practically
abandoned to mob-rule.

And he looked at the woman whom he
admitted to his own thoughts that he loved,
and he felt that he was powerless either to
touch her heart or to save her from misery.

She was very pale ; even her lips were
pale, and her blue eyes looked almost black,
whilst the dark furs of her travelling hood and
of her long cloak enhanced the whiteness of
her complexion and the brightness of her hair.
She sat opposite to him in silence ; she was
deeply resentful of his presence there, and she
did not aid him by a single sentence.

'You are going to join Guilders ? ' he
asked abruptly at length.

Have I no right to do so ? ' she asked
coldly.

Aubrey gave a gesture of impatience.

When women speak of their rights their
joys are gone,' he thought, and answered
aloud : ' No one could dispute your right, my
dear. But it is not always wise to use our right.
That I have said to you often before now.'

She was still silent.

You had my letter the day I left you at
Ladysrood ? ' he asked.

Yes.'

And it made no impression on you ? '

It was very noble, no doubt. But you
are not in my place. You cannot judge.'

Can you judge clearly, do you think ?
How much do you see that is true, and how
much distorted ? How much that is wise, and
how much unwise ? Feeling is a dangerous
guide. It leads us into fatal errors.'

I have resisted mine long enough.'

And you are tired of resistance. That I
can understand. But if you are wise, my dear,
and unselfish, you will continue to resist. What
good can it do for you to see him in your
present state of violent irritation ? '

I wish to know the truth.'

'I would rather,' she added more passionately,
' know any truth — the worst truth —
than live like a child, like an animal, like a
plant, told nothing, hearing nothing, unconsidered
and disregarded, as month after month
goes on. If I am not dear to him, I am a
burden to him : there can be no medium

between the two. Let him say so to me
honestly, and I will trouble him no more.'

What would you do ? '

I can live very well on what my father
left me.'

You mean that you will separate yourself
from Guilders ? '

Will you tell me why I should not ? '

There are a thousand reasons. Chief of
all there is the supreme reason that you belong
to him, and that you care immensely for him,
though you now only listen to your anger.'

Her face flushed.

It is an insult to say that to me.'

My dear child, I do not insult any one. It
is not my habit. It is the highest honour to
her that a woman should remain faithful quand
mere. You seem to me to be ashamed of
what is really the finest quality in your
character. Youth has often that sort of
mauvaise Honte before its best emotions.'

You admire Griseldis as my father did ! '

I do not ask you to be Griseldis. You
are not beaten, outraged, or robbed of your
children ; that which you have to complain of
you would probably have been spared if you

had endeavoured to be more indulgent and to
pass over what would never have been thrust
on you if you had not looked for it.'

The train rushed on through the heavy
grey darkness ; the lamp swung above their
heads, and its yellow light shone on her face
on which a great anger gathered.

I know you only care for his reputation
because he is a branch of your own great house
she said coldly. ' It is no doubt natural you
should feel so. It is perhaps as natural that I
should feel otherwise.'

That is untrue and unjust,' said Aubrey,
with the only sternness she had ever heard from
him. ' I have been always your friend, often
at great cost to myself, and I have more than
once run all risks of rupture with my cousin
for your sake in the endeavour to persuade him
to give you greater happiness, and greater consideration.
I say nothing more to you than
your own father said, who of course cared alone
for you and nothing for my cousin. I endeavour
to dissuade you from your journey now,
because I know that to follow Guilders will
only appear to him espionage, surveillance,
interference, curiosity, everything which is

most irritating to the pride and to the liberty
of man. He left you in irritation : when his
irritation is passed he will return to you, if you
do not of your own accord raise some insurmountable
obstacle.'

She did not reply ; her eyes gazed sombrely
through the glass at the darkness of the night
and the reflections of the lamp.

I entreat you,' he continued, ' not to leave
England. In England you are with all of us ;
you are safe in reputation and in circumstance.
Ladysrood is too lonely for so young a woman
as you are, but my sister will be beyond expression
glad if you will stay with her indefinitely,
wherever she be. She said so to me
only this morning.'

She is very good, but I shall not trouble
her

This is the sheer madness of obstinacy.
What will you accomplish by following my
cousin ? He will not pardon it if you follow
and arraign him. What good can it possibly
do ? What use is the mere momentary indulgence
of anger when it must inevitably be
followed by a lifetime of regret. The greatest
evil of all such upbraiding as you will make to

him, if you see him in your present state of
irritated pain, is that in them every one says so
much more than they wish or mean, wild and
bitter words are exchanged which can never be
forgotten, even if they are ever pardoned ; and
that which might have been a mere passing
sorrow, a temporary estrangement, is deepened
and widened into a ife-long enmity. I have
said to you, before, all that it is possible to say.
I only entreat you now to be guided by it, and
remain in England.'

Her heart was hardened against her best
friend. Like almost every woman she was
only capable of believing that those alone loved
her who wholly agreed with her and, without
reserve, sympathised in all her emotions. She
had even doubted her father's affection for her,
because it had been critical and temperate in
judgment. Her heart now was sore, hurt, apprehensive,
full of anger and yet unbearable
indignation; she would have liked her companion
to give her limitless, unquestioning consolation
and indignation likewise. She longed
to weep her heart out on the breast of a friend ;
to cry out against fate, and love, and earth, and
heaven, and all the cruel treacheries of human

life, and hear some voice full of compassion
echo all her own cries. But Aubrey seemed to
her only to rebuke her ; only to palliate all she
suffered from, only to study the interests of his
family, and the conventionalities of the world.

It closed her heart to him. She was too
full of pain and anger both to penetrate his
motives or even for an instant to dream of his
self-denials.

He was powerless to persuade or to control
her. All the influence which he had possessed
upon her before was lost in the flood of blind
and passionate impulses let loose in her by the
pain of jealousy. She knew well enough that
he was right ; but she would not open her ears
to his counsels or her heart to his kindness.

If he had been less loyal to his cousin, he
might have been more successful in his persuasions.
If he had conjured her by his own
affection he might have prevailed on her to
return. But no syllable which could have been
even influenced by personal desires escaped him.
John Vernon risen from his grave could not
have spoken with more absolute self-denial than
he did. And he gained no influence, he made
no impression ; jealousy and indignation, and

the bitter sense of ignorance and wrong, were
all hardening her heart and driving her on in
strong self-will, regardless of the issue of the
fate which she provoked.

Every argument which he could use, every
inducement, conjuration, and even prayer which
he could call to his aid he exhausted in vain.
She knew that her husband and the woman
whom he had told her he loved more than any
other creature upon earth, were somewhere in
Italy together. England in its dark and early
winter seemed to her only like that ice-prison
which holds the bodies of the damned in the
verse of Dante.

Wearied, pained and mortified, Aubrey
at last desisted from his endeavours and remained
silent, as the train flew through the
country silences onwards towards Dover.

I am not my cousin's keeper,' he thought
bitterly. 'And very likely if he knew what I
am doing now he would only misconstrue my
reasons, and rebuke me for meddlesome interference
! '

There was no sound but that of the oscillations
of the train swinging at headlong speed
over its iron sleepers.

Neither spoke again till the journey was
almost done.

You will not warn him that I am going
away ? ' she said suddenly once.

I am not an informer, as I told you once
before,' he answered coldly. 'But his sister
will no doubt find some way to let him know
that you have left England.'

It does not matter,' she replied as coldly ;
and, she thought, wretchedly, ' he never
changes or pauses in his wishes for me ! '

The silence remained unbroken until the
slackening of the speed of the train told them
that they were near the docks of Dover. Then
Aubrey stooped a little forward, and, resting
this grey eyes upon her sadly, said with great
gentleness, yet with a coldness which she had
never heard from him :

If you have any true confidence in my
judgment and in my affection for you, listen tome
now, Return here and wait until Guilder
oy comes to you of his own accord. If
you have patience that time will not be long.'

She heard the wise words with the impatience
of a woman who knows beforehand
what advice she is about to receive, and has beforehand

decided to follow none of it. Aubrey
seemed to her cold, unsympathetic, conventional ;
she wanted his grief and indignation as her
support, she was almost unjust enough to say
herself that the clannish feeling of family
dignity made him think more of preserving
his cousin's name from public comment, than
of her own personal pain. She was in that
state when every form of consolation or counsel
seems an irritant or a mockery; when, as
Horace has it, anger being unbridled becomes
the violent tyrant of the soul.

I have a right to know. I have a right
to know,' she repeated to herself. They all
seemed to deny her that right ; they all seemed
to think that she should submit to stay in
tutelage and acquiescence, asking nothing and
arranging nothing until her husband should at
his good will and pleasure deign to recall once
more the fact that she existed.

Their names were great, no doubt, and
their lives were before the world ; but if he
chose to sully them and give them to idle
calumny, it was no fault of hers.

There was a brief and tempestuous winter
session then on, from which it was impossible

for Aubrey to absent himself even a day.
Even if he could have done so, it might
have been the cause of more harm than good,
he thought, if lie forced his presence upon her
in the journey on which her heart was set.
Even his cousin himself, uncertain of temper
and capricious in his judgments, might look on
such interference with wrong interpretation of
it. He saw nothing that he could do for the
time being except to leave her to her own
choice of action. Things might, perchance,
become better than he feared they would do.

He knew that it is of little use to try to bethe
providence for other lives. The unforeseen
is sure to intervene, and accident at every
moment overturns the schemes and the wishes
of man with a fractiousness which no one can
prevent.

You must take your own way, my dear,' he
said, with a sigh, ' I hope you will never regret it.'

Then he accompanied her on to the vessel
and bade her farewell.

The night was cold but clear, a sparkling
frosty sky and a scarcely ruffled sea. He held
her hand a moment in his as he parted from
her on the deck.

I am sorry I cannot come with you to
Paris,' he said, with a great coldness despite
himself still in his tone. ' But I must be in the
House to-night by eleven at latest. God bless
you, dear ; since you will go, be prudent and
be unselfish. Women suffer much at times no
doubt from the selfishness of men, but sometimes
I think they repent their own more bitterly
when they give way to it. And how
often mere selfishness is called love ! '

Then he let her hands go, and left her standing
on the deck of the steamship under the clear
cold skies.

His heart was heavy as a special train
carried him backward in his solitude to Westminster
as fast as steam could bear him through
the night.

You filled my barren life with treasure ;
You may withdraw the gifts you gave,'

lie thought in the words of the unknown writer
to which he had taken a causeless fancy.
Nay, she has given me no treasure at all, and
she takes away nothing because she gave nothing.
The gift was given to a life not barren,
but already over full, and I have no part or
share in either her pleasures or her joys. Why

should I have ? She has used me like a good
big dog which could swim through some rough
currents to save her ; but she is now in the
deep sea, and if she can be saved it cannot be
by me.'

And that tempter which dwells in the
heart of man, and which he had once said at
Ladysrood made it almost possible to believe in
the old-world myths of devilish agencies, whispered
to him now that if he had been less loyal,
if he had done as other men would have done,
if he had used his many opportunities and his
power of influence over her turn to her heart
away from his cousin, and win it in its revulsion
and reaction to himself, he would have
done no more than what nearly every man
would have done in his place, and in the issue
she might have been consoled, and he at the
least been happy.

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE XLIII.

The steamer meantime passed on its little
voyage through the still frosty air, and over
the liquid darkness of the sea. Gladys, en-wrapped
in her black sables, stayed on deck
insensible to cold. She was only conscious of
the febrile excitement within her, and of that
momentary solace which is always found in
any physical movement which relieves or distracts
great anxiety.

She went straight to Paris, and descended
at an hotel instead of at the house which
Guilders rented in the Avenue du Bois de
Bologna, and which was then shut up and
left in charge of the Suisse. She did not wish
her movements to be known to any one. She
inquired at the English Embassy where Lord
Guilders was. With] some surprise and, she
thought, some embarrassment, his friends there
told her that they believed he was in Venice

Still ; they had heard no change of address
from him. She left them to think or conclude
what they chose, and went to Venice as
Aubrey had done before her. At his palace,
where they received her with obsequious deference,
she heard that he had left there three
weeks before, but where he was they could not
say ; he had left no address. She perceived
that it was an excuse, a falsehood, but they
were at least loyal to the instructions they
had received ; she did not try to bribe them
into disobedience, which could easily have
been done. She paused for a few days at^the
house, which was always kept in perfect readiness
for his arrival. She thought it probable
that he might return.

It was cold in Venice, but it did not seem so
to her after the north winds which had been
sweeping over the woods and moors of Lady's
when she had left it. The sun was
radiant ; the green canals still basked in light,
the silvery lagoons bore the little islands on
their breasts, the Istria brigs were unloading
their loads of wood in the Giudecca, the Greek
traders were landing their varied cargoes at the
custom-house, the many coloured fleet of the

c2

little fishing vessels anchored off the Schiavone
and the Botanic gardens ; the scene was always
charming, various, gay, a panorama of moving,
noiseless, delicately tin ted life.

She acknowledged its charm ; but it made
her heart almost heavier than it had been under
the wintry shadows and dusky mists of Lady's
As she let the gondoliers take her over
the water and thread their way with unerring
accuracy through the crowded craft of the
Candle d'Orfano, she lived over again every
moment of the first weeks she had passed in
Venice. All that passion spent on them seemed
to her like a dream ; some remembered poem
that could have nothing in common with her
own life. The woman can never habituate
herself to the early and abrupt cessation of all
love's instincts and caresses, which to the man
seems so natural and so inevitable. To her
that fairy story should be told with the same
ardour every recurrent year ; to him it is as
dead as last year's leaves.

At times, as she drifted through the silvery
wintry air, she blamed herself, recalling every
word of counsel which her father and Aubrey
had addressed to her.

She had been unwise, she knew, to speak
as she had last spoken to her husband. She
had been unwise to reject his proposal to travel
with her into distant lands ; she had done
wrong to repulse so coldly that share in her
sorrow which he had offered her with sincere
and delicate sympathy. All this she knew, but
the vision of his other passions had stood between
him and herself, and there was now forever
sounding in her ear the avowal of his
love for Beatrice Soria.

That one bitter and restless remembrance
haunted her, and would not let her stay in
peace amongst the gliding waters and soothing
stillness of Venice. She did not know where
he might be. She could not write to inquire
of mere strangers. She had the whole of the
Italian journals which were sold at the news-stalls
bought and brought to her. He was so
well known in Italy that she thought his
movements would be observed and chronicled,
however much he might try to guard against it.

For several days she saw nothing ; on the
ninth day she read in one of the sheets a little
line announcing that he was still in Naples.
She knew from the Venetians that he had left

them some twenty days before. It seemed to
her clear as the golden moon rising above the
Euganean mountains that he was with her
rival.

The voice of her father seemed to say to
her from his grave, ' Do not go thither ; do
not try to compel fate.'

She had done all that she could do to keep
off the inquisitiveness of society ; she had
done more than many would have done to
offer a serene and harmonious surface-existence
to the stare of curiosity and malignity. But,
beneath all that, the aching heart of her youth
was angered and seething like a sea in storm ;
under all her apparent and enforced composure
the blindest and maddest of all the
passions, jealousy, was tearing her soul asunder.

I have a right at least to know,' she told
herself a thousand times, lying awake in what
had been her nuptial chambers ; listening to
the lapping of the water on the marble stairs
below all the long nights through, until the
sound of the cannon fired at sunrise on the
Giudecca told her that another dreary, empty,
anxious, desolate day had come.

I have a right to know,' she thought, and,

allowing Aubrey's letter to be unanswered, she
left the Venetian sea-mists and water-ways, and
went, also, southward through the amber sun-rays
and the roseate lights of a luminous
winter's day spreading with noontide golden
and glorious over the lagoons and the meadows
beyond Mestre.

CHAPTER XLIV.

It was now the close of November. Beatrice
Soria was at the great palace of the Soria,
fronting the sea, where she still ruled supreme
by virtue of her young children over whose lives
she was left sole and complete guardian. This
palace was one of the marvels of the south,
built by Angelo Fiori, with ceilings by Dominie
and frescoes by Shone Papa; its facade
dominated the sea ; to its rear stretched large and
beautiful gardens. It was here that Guilders
had first succumbed to her charm in one soft,
gay, Neapolitan winter, which ever remained
on the memories of both of them as the one
perfect page in their book of life.

It was years ago now; but every detail
and hour of it seemed to come back to him as
on a magic glass, as he saw the long white
majesty of the great house tower above its stairs
and terraces, and mole of marble. Every delicious

and enchanted moment passed there revived
in his remembrance ; all that their intimacy
had had of storm, of dispute, of doubt, of
jealousy, of too arrogant dominion, had all
faded from his mind as though they had never
been. His memories retained only the glow and
glory of its noontide light. He utterly forgot
the thunder clouds which had often broken
over the golden beauty of those days of love.

When at length he roused himself from
these memories as he stood on the strip of
shore below and gazed at the mass of sculpture
towering above him, he mounted the great
stairway from the sea and asked of the porter
at its gates if the Duchess Soria would receive
him : he was met by an inflexible denial. Her
excellency received no one except from four to
six o'clock every Saturday afternoon, and again
on Monday evenings from ten. It was then
Tuesday.

With the crowd ! — never,' he said to himself;
and turned away, with feverish impatience
and an aching heart.

He passed the day wandering beside the sea
or in the streets.

At niofht he wrote to her : the first letter

he had addressed to her since that in which he
had announced his marriage. His declarations
were as ardent and as comprehensive in it as
those of Tibullus to Cerinthus in the thirteenth
Carmen of the fourth book. He received no
answer ; and he was as wretched as Cerinthus's
lover.

On the third day after he had sent it, his
heart beat breathlessly at sight of a large envelope,
with the two gold crowns on it, directed
in the handwriting which he had once known
so well, and which had sent him letters which
at one time he had worn in his breast and which
at another time he had held to a lighted match
and burnt.

He opened the envelope with intense anxiety
and suspense. But it contained only a card
printed in gold which announced that the
Duchess Soria might be visited in ' prima sera '
on Monday evenings. There was no written
word with it ; only his name filling up the blank
space left for that purpose on the card.

Can any woman forget so utterly ? ' he
thought in passion and pain, obvious that if
she had learned the lesson of forgetting, he had
been the first to teach it to her.

His pride told him to leave Naples at once
without seeing her ; he felt that there was
neither dignity nor courage in remaining a
supplant at the gates of one who once had
been wholly his.

The remonstrances of Aubrey haunted him
with persistent reproach, and for the first time
in his life he saw his own conduct in its true
light. But the ascendency which Beatrice
Soria possessed over him was stronger even
than the impulses of pride. He could not
bring himself to leave the scene of their former
joys, the place where soonest, if ever, her
heart would return to him on the impulse of
memory.

Moreover, others who admired or adored
her, others freer than he to prove their
homage, had followed her thither also ; and an
intense jealousy of all that was possible in her
future held him. There, as of old, in those
smiling seas, the sirens had held too reckless
mortals in their power, and so hers held him
now upon these shores. He remained, as
though he were a boy of twenty, spending his
hours beneath the sea-walls of her palace, and
trusting to some favouring hazard to afford him

that unwitnessed interview with her which he
sought. He did not accept her permission to
approach her with the crowd at her receptions.
He felt that he could not trust himself to see
her first again before a throng, of which many
would be strangers and all would be odious to
Hm. Every day at sunset she drove, like other
great ladies of the city ; and every day at sunset
he was standing or riding near when her great
bronze gates unclosed. She gave him a salutation
and a smile, but never checked her
horses. He saw, or imagined that he saw, in
the smile a triumphant mockery of himself.
He was mistaken : it was merely the slight
smile of courtesy which any well-bred woman
gives to an acquaintance.

There was no movement of society at that
time in the city. The great world of Naples
never bestirs itself until carnival comes. The
populace were wild and mirthful in the streets
as usual, but none of the great houses were
opened except hers. She had all the customs of
a wider world than that of the Neapolitans, and
had never been bound by their observances.

The empty and fruitless days succeeded
one another, and brought him nothing that he

wished. At last he remembered that golden
key which the classic lovers of this soil recommend
to those who would see unclose a door
too cruelly shut against them. All things are
saleable still in the land of Ovid and Tibullus,
and the honesty of no guardian of the lares
is more proof now than then against a bribe.
He saw, and looked at enviously, in the high
wall of the garden, the iron grating of the
postern gate, by which he had used to have
the right of entrance at his pleasure. The
same creeping plants hung over it as in other
years ; the same blackbirds plucked at the
black berries of its flowering ivy ; the* same
great magnolia trees shrouded it in deepest
shade ; the same sound of falling water came
from the fountains behind it, and the same
cripple lay on the road in front of it, stretching
out his brown and filthy hand for alms.
Nothing was changed except himself, nothing
gone except his privileges. He even heard
the very voice of the same dog as, roused by
the sounds of his footsteps, it ran barking along
under the wall within.

In time, and with some difficulty — for the
dependents of the Soria palace valued their

place and feared to lose it — the potent talisman
of gain succeeded in drawing back the
rusted bolts of the little iron door, and the
underling, who had betrayed his mistress for a
handful of paper money, held back the dog
as Guilders passed into the evergreen shades
of the familiar garden paths. But the dog,
escaping from the gardener's hold, ran to him
and leaped joyfully on him.

Poor Pyrrho, do you remember me ?
You are more merciful than your mistress ! ' he
murmured, as he caressed the dog, profoundly
touched by its affectionate welcome. He
walked on under the deep aisles of bay and
laurel.

It was dark here in the gardens, though
only the first stars had risen over the sea. He
had chosen the hour at which she would be
sure to have returned from her drive ; her
dinner-hour was not until nine, he knew, and
when she came in it was her habit to sit alone
awhile in a small room hung entirely with
allegorical paintings by Albans, and having
great windows looking towards the sea ; it
served her as a boudoir and a library in one.
Here, again and again, hundreds of times he

had found her of old reading some new
German or French book of philosophy, or the
verses of some Latin poet.

He entered the house by the garden loggia
and the apartments which were called the
garden-rooh^s. The servants were then closing
the shutters, for the night; but they knew him
and were not surprised to see him there, and
one of them, ushered him without question
throughout house to the little chamber which
was called the Sotto dell' Albans.

She was seated with her back to the door,
reading, or seeming to read. The light from
the lamp fell on the dark gold of her* hair,
which was the hair of Palma Yecchio's Barbara.
He could only see the crown of her
head, and one fold of her velvet gown, the hue
of the dark side of an olive-leaf; all else was
hidden by the carved back of her large chair.

He saw her thus through the parting of the
velvet curtains hanging before the door. Two
lamps were burning low, and shed a roseate
light on the room ; the windows, still unsheltered,
showed the serene night, in which a
flush of day still lingered.

He motioned the servant backward, and

the man, who had known him well in other
days and had then always let him enter
unannounced, allowed him to do so now, and
closed the door noiselessly.

In a moment, before the Duchess Soria had
even looked up from the volume she was
reading, Guilders had crossed the room and
was at her feet.

She withdrew her gown from the eager
clasp of his hands, and a flush of anger rose
over her face.

You have bribed my servants ! ' she said
with unutterable scorn.

You left me no other way. You would
not answer me. You would not see me alone.'

Why should I see you alone ? As for
answer I already answered enough — more than
enough — at Paix.'

It is an answer which I will not take I '

You must take it, since it is my will to
give it.'

She withdrew her hands from his hold with
something of the violence which he had once
known in her.

He kissed the folds of her skirts.

I will not take it ; I do not believe in it.

All can never be over between us. Here, in
this sacred room, which heard my earliest vows
to you, I swear that you are the only woman
whom I have ever loved in my whole life.'

To how many women have you said so ?
And how dare you recall vows which were only
uttered to be forsworn ? '

I have said so to no other woman. No
other — living or dead.'

You have said so at' least to your wife ? '

Never. I never loved her.'

'Then why did you marry her? No
woman can have either compassion or respect
for any man who knows what he wishes 'so
little as that.'

He coloured with offended pride and irritated
pain.

I am human,' he said angrily. ' Men
have never, that I know of, in any part of
the world's history, been conspicuous for consistency
where their passions were involved.'

Do you not understand what an insult to
all passion such inconsistency is ? '

No ; passion is, in its very essence, wayward
and shifting as the winds. You reproach
me with my mutability. But you only do so

VOL. III. D

because you will not endeavour to understand.
It is only comprehension that is ever pitiful.'

She looked at him v^ith a long gaze,
under which his own eyes fell.

I think I understand you perfectly,' she
said in her low, sweet, dreamy voice. ' You
study your own pleasure. You do not consider
anything beyond it. I loved you immensely.
It is no flattery to you to say so
since, for nearly seven years, I never disguised
it from you, and the grave of your child is
there in attestation of it. You knew that you
were my world ; yet the moment that a new
caprice attracted you, you dismissed me with
scarcely more consideration than you would
have shown to a feline entretenue. I said
nothing ; I could not avenge it, and women of
my character do not complain or appeal. Now,
because you see me sought by other men, or
because perhaps your feeling for me was of a
deeper kind than you knew, you are as ready
to throw aside your allegiance to others as you
were ready then to throw aside yours to me
for them. Why should I give you either pity
or credence ? Why should I believe in the
strength of feelings which have never been

more stable than a marsh-light which flits
hither and thither ? You do not know what
love is. You have too much self-love to know it.'

He sighed as he heard her ; his conscience
told him that there was truth in the charge.
Yet he knew that his love for her was very
great ; what proof could he give her which
would persuade her of its strength ?

You are unmerciful like all women,' he
said at last. ' May I, without offence, tell you
a truth also? I did love you greatly — as
much as it is in me to love at all. But you
tried me often. You were too exacting, too
imperious, too passionate. We always revolt
when we feel the curb. It was a momentary
impatience; not of you, but of the dominion
you sought to have over me, which made me
f^mcy that in marriage I might perhaps find
greater tranquillity and more genuine peace.'

Besides which, Lady Guilders was very
lovely, and you wished for her, and you had
never denied yourself any whim or any desire !
It is very possible that I was unwise and exacting.
Few women are otherwise ; and I have
one pretension I confess, one which you knew
of old : I reign alone, or I reign not at all.'

d2

Guilders smiled wearily.

Is that worthy of your knowledge of our
weaknesses ? '

Perhaps not. I make no claim to consistency.
But what I claim I give. The world
considers me a coquette because I have power
over men. But I have never been a coquette
in the sense of dividing my affections. I will
admit, even though it flatters you, that I have
always been true to you though you were false
to me.'

He bowed his head and kissed her hands.
His eyes were dim with tears.

Did you doubt it ? ' she said with a little
disdain. ^ How little our lovers know of us !
Our hearts beat against theirs, and our lives
mingle with theirs, and yet they go from us
knowing no more of our real natures than if
they had embraced things of wood or of wax !
Is it stupidity, or indifference P I suppose it is
the immense blindness of self-love. And you
are all of you so blunt in your perceptions
and so coarse,' she pursued. ' If a woman
has hazarded her position for you, though you
know she is all yours, and is as faithful as
Dido, as tender as Hero, yet in your rude and

clumsy classifications you will, in your own
thoughts, bracket her with Lydia and Lais ! '

She put his hands off hers almost roughly
for a woman of such slow and languid grace
of movement.

Not I,' he murmured, gazing at her with
eyes in which she might read more than the
worship of old.

Oh yes ! you — you more, perhaps, than
most men. When you wrote me your letter
of farewell you ended it in delicate phrases
because you are a gentleman, but the truth
which pierced through them was that you left
me as you would have left any bought companion
of your pleasures.'

No ; ten thousand times no ! ' he said
vehemently. ' You imagined what was not
there. You exaggerated the offence to you.
Women always will. I might be ungrateful,
unworthy, failing in appreciation and penetration
as you say, but I never for a moment failed
to render you the honour that you merit.'

She smiled faintly.

Since you left me how can you expect me
to believe it ? If you leave your wife tomorrow
will she believe that you honour her ? '

Why will you speak of lier ? '
We must speak of her. She exists.'
Let me forget that she does so ! '
The same faint dreamy smile came on her
mouth ; he could not tell whether she believed
or disbelieved him ; whether she esteemed him
true or false, whether she loved him still or
had put him wholly from her inner life.

You must be aware that your offence tome
is one which no woman who has any pride
can pardon. You love me, you do not love
me, you think you love me again, you vacillate,
you doubt, you forsake, you adore, and you
expect me to humbly await you while your
heart oscillates to and fro, now close to mine,
now leagues away from mine.'

I expect nothing,' he said bitterly. ' I
have lost the right to expect, if I were ever
happy enough to possess it. Only if you will
tell me any test by which I can prove you my
sincerity tell me what it is, and then you will
learn whether I now speak on mere caprice or
not.'

She was silent, while all the light of her
deep and lustrous eyes seemed to plunge into
his and through them search his inmost soul.

She was silent some moments, and she could
hear the loud first beating of his heart.

There is only one test possible for me to
accept or to believe in,' she said at last.

Tell me what it is ; or, indeed, I Avill consent
to it untold.'

'Do not be too rash,' she said, with a cold
and momentary smile. ' You must, however,
know very well what it is. Leave your wife
for ever and I shall believe in your love forme.'


He turned away pale and he was mute.

You hesitate ? ' she said with interrogation
and disdain.

He sighed heavily.

It is a demand which does not affect myself
alone.'

'Did your demand of the past affect yourself
alone? What demand of love, or of life, can
ever concern oneself alone ? '

You mean to leave her publicly ? '

'Yes ; nothing less than that. I will accept
no divided allegiance. It was for her that you
insulted me. It must now be her whom you
surrender for me.'

He was silent.

My honour,' he said at last, but he hesitated,
and she filled up the sentence.

Your honour ! You mean your conventional
deference to the world's opinion. You
are weary of your wife, you shun, dislike, and
avoid her, but you consider your honour saved,
if you affect with her, for society, a union which
has wholly ceased to exist either in fact or
feeling. I tell you you know nothing of genuine
passion or vital pain. You are honest neither
to myself or her.'

He was silent ; he breathed heavily ; his
heart was torn between conflicting emotions.

Eemember,' said Beatrice Soria coldly, ' I
do not ask this of you ; I do not even wish it ;
much less do I counsel it. I only say, as I
have a right to say, that such alone is the proof
of your sincerity which I can accept or credit.
You already seek from me patience, forgiveness,
and oblivion of no common sort. I have a
right to answer that I can only give you these
on certain conditions. You can fulfil them or
reject them as you please. There was a time, I
confess, when I could have died of the pain of
your abandonment. But that time is past.
You have taught me to live without you. I

can do so now and in the future. It is a lesson
which no man who is wise teaches to any
woman.'

He sighed as he heard : the words were
the same in meaning as those which Aubrey
had spoken to him of his wife.

What are your conditions ? ' he asked ina
low voice. ' Tell me more clearly. What
is it you exact .^ Your right I admit ; I have
never denied it.'

What I have said. That you should leave
your wife, and make it known to her that you
leave her for ever. You will write a letter of
farewell to her which I shall read and send.
It is for her that you insulted and forsook me.
It is her now whom you must sacrifice — if you
are now in earnest.'

He was silent a moment ; then he walked
to the table near on which were paper and pens
and ink, and a litter of opened letters. ' Tell
me what to write,' he said with the same sound
in his voice, which was half sullen and half
implored. He plunged one of the quills in the
ink, and turned to her and waited.

No. Not in that haste,' she said ; and she
rose and closed her writing-table. ' You shall

not say or think in the future that I hurried
you into an agitated and unmeditated act.
Years ago we were mad like that, but such
madness is over. Your choice must be deliberate
and wholly voluntary. It will last out
your life and mine. Go now. If you choose
you can return to this room at this hour tomorrow.
If not, leave Naples, and do not
attempt ever again to see me or to speak to me,
either alone or in the world.'

Before he could reply or remonstrate she
had touched a handbill which stood near her ;
one of the men of the antechamber answered.

Show may lord to his carriage,' she said to
the servant.

Guilders could not resist such dismissal.
He kissed her hand with the slight salutation of
an acquaintance and left her presence. The
servant ushered him with ceremony through
the house and out by the great gates of the sea
front. He was scarcely conscious of what he
did or where he went ; and he found himself
standing on the beach beneath the marble wall,
with the placid sea before him shining under
the stars, a few boats rocking in the silver of
its surf.

CHAPTEE Xli.

Unnerved, beset with a thousand conflicting
emotions, divided between intense desire, and
that honour which his education and his instincts
made a second nature to him, Guilders
left the hall and went home across
the gardens to the palace which he had
occupied half a mile away. The night was
very brilliant ; the stars seemed strewn thickly
as diamond dust ; all the ear-piercing and
countless noises of the Neapolitan streets had
ceased. There was no sound but that of the
murmur of the sea. He walked through the
white intense moonlight and the dim shadows,
now passing some recumbent figure lying
stretched in sleep upon the stones, some basket
of violets whose tired seller had fallen asleep
beside them on a marble stair, some Madonna's
lamp burning within a sculptured shrine. He
looked at nothing, neither outward to the sea

nor upward to the stars, nor downward at the
shimmering beggars. His eyes only saw, as it
were, painted on the radiant night, the face of
Beatrice Soria.

What she had demanded of him was a
greater price than if she had asked of him the
sacrifice of existence itself.

He was a man to whom the curiosity and
comment of the world were intolerable ; to
whom the honour of his name had been always
sacred and kept intact through all his follies and
excesses ; his attachment to John Vernon lying
dead in his grave at Christslea was sincere, and
his sense of the duty owing to his memory was
strong.

The hours passed uncounted ; he had no
sense either of hunger or thirst ; he was wholly
possessed by the agitation of his senses and his
emotions, and the struggle which was violent
between his desires and his consciousness of
what honour asked of him.

The memory of Gladys as he had seen her
first on the moors in the pale autumn morning
came over him with a pang of wistful repentance
and regret. The recollection of her in the first
days of her marriage to him smote him with the

sense of having sacrificed some innocent and
trustful animal on the altars of his own brief
and destroying desires.

He knew that to both the woman whom he
had married and the woman whom he had loved
he had believed with the unkindness which is
the inseparable offspring of a purely selfish and
physical passion. He saw himself for the moment
as others saw him ; and he condemned himself
as they condemned him in these solitary and
bitter hours of self-examination.

What Aubrey had justly defined in him
as a feeling not of affection but of egotism
towards his wife, made it terrible to hfm to
appear to other men as wanting in respect
or in regard for her. He was sensitive to
the insolence of public comment; and he
abhorred the thought that through him the
world would talk of her. He remembered
her father with contrition and self-condemnation
; he remembered his own violent self-will
in insisting on the caprice of his momentary
desires, and all the wisdom with which
John Vernon had endeavoured to dissuade him
from his folly. He could not possibly blame
any one except himself He could lay at no

one else's door the difficulty and temptation in
which he was now placed. He had blamed
her indeed for want of sympathy and affection,
but he knew that he had had little right todo
so.

He passed the night hours pacing to and
fro beside the sea. Once he bade a boatman
row him out on to the moonlit water, and he
watched from it the receding shores.

The boat drifted on under the stars on the
open sea ; the rower, half asleep, steering
mechanically with his foot, and ever and anon
idly dipping his oars into the waves. Guilders
was stretched at full length, his head resting on
the bench, his eyes watching afar off the stately
pile of the Soria Palace towering against the
moon-bathed clouds, whilst the fragrance of
its orange gardens came to him over the waves.
After all, it seemed to him, his first duty was to
the one who dwelt there.

His marriage had been a supreme wrong
done to her. If she could find reparation or
consolation in his love now, he thought that he
was bound in honour to afford them to her ; at
least his wishes led him to try and believe so.
And he loved her more than he had ever loved

any woman ; her touch, her voice, her regard,
stirred the very depths of his soul as no other's
had ever done. Years of separation had given
to his desires the freshness of a new passion,
and the keen jealousy with which he had
watched the homage of others had intensified it
tenfold. He was in that mood in which a man
feels that all other things may perish if his love
be left to him ; the cry of Faust, ' I give my
soul for ever so that this woman may be mine ! '
It seemed to him that he never really
lived save when he was with her. His
senses were stimulated, his intelligence was
aroused, his wandering fancies were captured
and concentrated by her as they were by no
other woman. The very indignity which he
had inflicted on her, and which she had pardoned,
endeared her to him ; she had not clung
to him in slavish humility, but she had loved
him and forgiven him with a greatness which
ennobled her in his sight. Such madness
might be past with her ; in him it was as
living still as when, years before, he had
first watched the stars rise over these waves
and the moon shine on the pale sculptures
of her palace. She believed that he was

incapable of suffering ; but he felt that he
drank its fullest cup to the lees. She was the
only woman on earth to him ; the world seemed
to hold no other. But a remorse which was
in its way as strong as the desire of his soul
was also at work within him. He knew that
he would act with surpassing disloyalty if he
deserted so young a woman as his wife, and
one so wholly blameless.

She had been unable to content him indeed
; she had failed to correspond to some
fanciful ideal which he had formed and
imagined for a few months to be incorporated
in her. She was not what he had wished or
what he had cared for ; but that was no fault
of hers. She had promised him nothing which
she had not fulfilled, and she had borne his
name blamelessly through all trials.

In what she had said to him on the day
that he had left Ladysrood she had been
wholly justified by facts ; and though he had
so violently resented her words, his conscience
told him that they were wholly deserved ; that
they had indeed been more forbearing than
many a woman in her position would have
made them.

As ludicrous and commonplace thoughts
intrude themselves sometimes on the deepest
and most tragic emotions, there recurred to
his mind his conversation with his sister
on the evening when he had announced
to her his intended marriage ; and of how
he had replied to her prophecies of woe
with the jest that no one ever abandoned
his wife in these latter days, unless it were
a workman who went off with the household
savings to the United States. It had always
seemed to him so easy to live so that the
world need know nothing of private disunion
or dissension ; so easy to conduct existence
on the smooth lines of outward courtesy and
apparent regard ; so easy to shut the door
politely in the face of a staring world in such
a manner that it should imagine there was
perfect felicity behind it. He had always
been disdainfully censorious of those who had
not the tact or the good taste requisite to
preserve these externals of harmonious agreement
which are all that the world demands.
And now he himself was on the brink of
affording to the world that spectacle of disordered
passion and of public severance which

VOL. III. E

had always seemed to him so coarse and so
unwise !

Amidst all the heat and confusion of his
thoughts there came over him the memory of
John Vernon's pale calm features in the mask
of death as he had seen them, with the
summer sunlight falling soft and warm upon
them, while the little birds had sung outside
the casement underneath the leaves. The pang
of an immense remorse, the throb of a great
shame, stirred in his heart. Egotist though
he was, given over to pleasure and indifferent
to rebuke, he felt ashamed and guilty before
the mute reproach of the dead man's memory.

I gave you all I had,' the voice of the
dead seemed to say to him. ' I gave it against
my will, and I warned you that you would use
it ill. What have you done with it ? What
will you say to me on that day when you, too,
come before the tribunal of the grave ? '

He shuddered as he lay under the golden
December moon, shining cold as steel down on
the steel-blue seas. What had become of his
honour ? Where was his good faith to the
dead? To a having man he might have been
untrue, had he chosen ; but to be false to one



who could never arraign him, never offend
him, never rebuke him ! — he seemed to grow
a coward and a liar in his own sight. All
better things, all higher truths that he had
ever believed in, awakened in his soul, and
bade him suffer what he would, lose all he
might, but be faithful to his word to one who
was no more numbered with the livings. He
gazed at the faint white shore gleaming afar
off under the moonlit skies.

My love, my love ! ' he murmured, ' I
cannot be dishonoured even for you ! He
trusted me '

The tears filled his eyes, and the shining
seas and the starry skies grew dim to his sight.

Put me ashore,' he said to the boatman.
His resolve was taken.

«;2

LIBRARY

University OF lilJNOiS

CHAPTEE XLVI.

When he at last reached his own residence
and crossed the court to enter his own apartments,
it was nearly but not quite dawn.
Large lamps swinging from the ceiling dimly
lighted the two ante-chambers. In the second
of them his body-servant was lying, fully
dressed, face downwards, on one of the couches,
tired out with his long vigil. Guild troy, sunk
in the gloom of his own thoughts, did not
even see the man, and passed on to the three
large rooms which divided the vestibule from
his bed-chamber.

It was an old palace ; lofty, spacious,
magnificent, faded and dull. Busts of dusky
yellow marble, weird bronzes stretching out
gaunt arms into the darkness, ivories brown
with age, worn brocades with gold threads
gleaming in them, and tapestries with strange
and pallid figures of dead gods, were all

half revealed and half obscured in the twilight.
As he moved through them, a figure
which looked almost as pale as the Adonis of
the tapestry and was erect and motionless like
the statue of the Wounded Love, came before
his sight out of the shadows. It was that of
Gladys.

He paused, doubting his senses. With her
long black robes and her pale features she
looked rather a creature of the grave than of
the earth, in the faint and fluctuating light
which fell on her from the swinging lamps
above.

For some moments neither of them spoke.

What has happened ? ' he said at last, instinctively.
' Why are you here .^ '

He expected to hear of some calamity, of
Ladysrood burnt down, or of his kindred
dead. She was silent. She was deadly
pale; there seemed nothing alive in her except
her intensely searching eyes, which gazed
at him.

For the love of God do not look at me
like that ! ' he cried involuntarily. ' What has
brought you from England ? Why do you
wait for me at such an hour ? '

It is the hour at which you have left the
Duchess Soria,' she said, in a voice which was
low but harsh.

His worn face flushed.

That is absolutely untrue ! I left her
house at eight this evening.'

She gave an impatient movement which
said without words, ' Why lie to me .^ '

I tell you that I left her house at eight,'
he repeated. ' You shall not insult her in my
hearing.'

But you may insult me in hers ! '

I never insult you. I speak of you always
with the most unfeigned respect. But if you
begin to track me, to lie in wait for me, to spy
on me, to catechise me, I tell you honestly that
I shall respect you no more, nor will I patiently
endure such espionage.'

All the gentler and more remorseful emotions
towards her with which his breast had
been filled as he had paced the solitary shores
and the deserted streets had been destroyed in
an instant by the sight of her in his apartments
and by her mention of the one name dearest
to him.

Who has a right to be near you if not I .P '

she asked with a haughty anger which scorched
up the tears that mounted to her sight.

No one disputes your right,' he answered
with great impatience. ' But between right
and welcome there are many leagues ; and the
title to come to me unbidden I would never
award to any woman were she ten thousand
times over my wife.'

I am come to solicit nothing from you,'
she said coldly.

Oh no ! Only to watch for me, to trace
out my actions, to question me, to fetter me, to
haunt me, to offend me ! '

Is it so strange that I wished to see you,
to know something of you .? For three months
you have not written to me, only to your
servants ; I heard that you were here ; herewith
her — the only woman whom you have
ever loved — so you told me I '

Her words were broken, and her voice had
a great emotion in it ; but that which would
have touched him in his mistress only angered
him the more intensely in his wife.

I forbid you to bring her name into this
discussion ! ' he said with more passion. ' You
choose to follow me, and to make me reproaches

; it is the way of women ; they only
lose all by it, but they are never deterred. I
came away from you because you asked me
intolerable questions and wearied me with useless
scenes ; if I have not loved you it has not
been my fault. Love is not to be whipped into
obedience like a straying child.'

Why marry me ? '

What is the use of saying that again and
again ? You said it in London ; you said it at
Ladysrood. I deceived myself, and so I deceived
you — with no thought or desire of deceit.
When a man tells a woman candidly that he
mistook his love for her, what more is there to
say? He should ask her pardon, perhaps, for
the wrong he has unintentionally done her.
Li that sense I ask yours.'

She did not reply.

It is better you should know,' he continued
rapidly. ' You will not care perhaps. If not,
so best. I was about to write to you. I am
true to an allegiance promised before I promised
mine to you. I am aware the world does not
recognise such unwitnessed vows, but they are
all love cares for ; they are all that ever really
hold love, let men say what they will. I must

tell you, since you are here, the entire truth. I
can give you no more of my life ; I can live no
longer in a feigned harmony which has wholly
ceased to exist if ever it did exist. I do not
think it ever did between us ; you may hate
me, and the world may execrate me ; but so it
must be henceforth.'

He paused in strong emotion ; he was neither
heartless nor ungenerous, and he knew that his
words must of necessity sound both. He hated
to give pain to any living creature ; and though
she seemed so cold and still that he doubted, ashe
had always doubted, her feeling greatly, jet
he knew that any woman must suffer, so addressed,
even if she only suffered in her pride.

He waited for her to reply ; but she said
nothing. She stood motionless with perfect
tranquillity.

The words were honest and truthful, but to
their hearer they seemed cruelty and brutality
incarnate. Had not her pride restrained her,
she could have cried aloud like some animal in
torture. But she was very proud, and whatever
agony she might suffer afterwards, she
had force to hold back any expression of it
now. Moreover, a consuming jealousy was

upon her, giving her temporary strength ; and
yet her whole existence seemed racing and
whirling from her as a great river courses in its
haste and storm towards the bottomless sea.
She looked at him where he stood under the
falling light from the lamp, pale, agitated,
angered, and she could have thrown herself
upon his breast and cried to him, ' I love you !
I love you ! give me some place — the least, the
lowest — but some place in your heart ! '

But pride kept back that yearning impulse ;
she stood, erect and cold, in her black clothes,
with the sombre light of an unutterable
reproach burning like flame in her dark blue
eyes.

'You are, again, the lover of the Duchess
Soria ? ' she said doggedly.

It was the most fatal thing she could have
said, but she was not wise enough to know that.
Guilders's face flushed hotly ; he felt all the
impotent fury of a man forced to say what it
seemed infamous to say no matter how he
might reply.

If to adore her be to be her lover, then I
am so,' he said with violence. ' In no other
sense — now — as yet'

She heard the first declaration ; she gave
no credence to the second ; she thought it the
mere conventional declaration with which a
man deems it necessary in honour to deny his
relations with a woman.

I came to hear this from your own lips,'
she said with perfect coldness. ' I have heard
it. There can be no longer any doubt. I will
go now.'

Go where ? ' he asked in vague uneasiness.

That cannot matter to you. Farewell ! '

His anxiety deepened despite his anger and
his preoccupation. Her manner seemed to Jim
unnatural. Its serenity was not in keeping
with the burning pain and rebuke spoken in
her eyes.

Why will you make me these scenes ? ' he
said wearily. ' I was thinking of you kindly
when you lay in wait for me thus. I cannot
endure surveillance, interference, espionage, and
when you speak of the woman I love more
than all others on earth you madden me.'

She smiled bitterly.

I will leave you to that other woman.
Surely you can ask no more. Believe me, I
shall make neither complaint nor scandal. I

remember what my father wished. Your name
and his are safe with me.'

I will write to you,' he said hurriedly,
embarrassed and distressed. 'All possible
arrangements or consideration shall be made ;
all that I have is yours. I am deeply
sensible of the injury I have done to you in
making you my wife when you where too
young to know my character or your own, or
measure the feelings of either of us. But if
your father sees now, as some say the dead
can see the souls of the living, he will know
that I was entirely honest in all that I promised
then, both to him and to yourself.'

His eyes were dim and his voice was uncertain
as he spoke ; a great emotion moved
him, and it seemed to him that she felt nothing
whatever — nothing save some indignant scorn,
perhaps at most some outraged pride.

She does not really care ; she knows
nothing of love,' he thought. It seemed to
him that any woman who had loved him would
have either poured out to him all the furies of
a disappointed and deserted passion, or have
fallen at his feet weeping in agonised supplication.


But she gave no sign either of violence
or of wretchedness.

At her father's name her mouth trembled,
and he thought for a moment that her composure
would desert her ; but she soon recovered
it. Whatever she felt, she betrayed
none of it.

Be good enough to let me pass,' she
said coldly ; and mortified, humbled, yet
angered with a sense of injustice done to
him as though he were the offended, not the
offender, he drew back and let her go as she
desired.

Where are you going ? ' he said with
hesitation. ' You cannot go like this, all alone,
in a strange city.'

My servants are waiting. I will return to
England. Why do you even ask me ? It cannot
matter to you ! '

It must matter.'

He was confused, agitated, passionately
angered, and yet all the while conscious of a
vague fear that in her strange stillness and
repose she would do something rash and irrevocable,
something which would haunt him all
his life long with remorse.

Let me pass,' she said, with her forced
serenity unbroken. ' I have told you I leave
you free ; what more can I say ? You need
fear nothing for any tragedy which might
embroil you with your world. I shall go
home.'

But as she went out before him through
the bare dim rooms, her step unfaltering and
her head erect, he realised how impossible it
was to let her leave him thus unprotected — a
woman who was his wife, who was as young
as she and as fair to look upon, alone in the
streets of such a city as Naples was at such an
hour.

I must accompany you at least,' he said
as he overtook her. 'You cannot go out in
these streets alone — I will take you wherever
you will.'

Then, and then alone, her self-control
forsook her ; she turned upon him with the
rapid and violent action of some animal
wounded and tormented beyond its power to
bear.

When my whole life is destroyed by you,
can you insult me by offering me mere formal
external courtesies? Can you think that it

would matter to me if any beggar of these
lanes stabbed me and dragged my body to the
sea? What do you know of love, of grief, of
pain, of sacrifice? Nothing — nothing — nothing
— no more than those marble gods that
stare there in the dusk. Let me go! You
shall not stir one step with me. I have told you
that my servants wait below. There shall be
no tragedy such as you fear should hurt your
reputation as a man of honour with the
world ! ' I

Then, with the swiftness of that step with
which she had once gone careless and lighthearted
through the moorland gorse, she Went
through the shadowy chambers, past the still
sleeping servant, under the great brazen lamp
burning in the entrance, and down the marble
stairway of the silent house.

He did not follow her.

All the gentleness and self-reproach with
which he had thought of her in the night just
passed died utterly out of him under the sting
of her disdainful and cutting words. Though
she, like the woman whom he loved, charged
him with insincerity and heartlessness, he knew
himself that he had neither; he knew that.

whatever he appeared to both of them, he suffered
with genuine emotion and with true self-reproach.
He had said no word to her which
had not cost him more to utter than it cost her
to hear. He had ideals and dreams of what
could never now be realised, and he had the
instinctive honour of a nature both proud and
sensitive. Even though he had no feeling for
her of affection, she might still have kept him
by tenderness ; but her words, which had struck
him to the quick, had hardened against her all
the feelings of his soul. Beatrice Soria might
rebuke and might condemn him, but she at the
least loved him with a passion which forgave
all, if it in turn exacted all.

Through the iron gratings of the large
unsheltered windows of his rooms the first
white light of day came faintly through the
duskier lamplight, falling on the pale figures of
the tapestried hangings and the yellowed
marbles of the Cedars and the gods.

He threw open the casements and let the
sharp, clear, cold air of earliest day pour past
him into the shadows of the rooms. When
the sun rose he sent three lines to the Soria
Palace :

I found her here. I told her the truth.
We are parted for ever. When may I come
to you ? '

They brought him in answer three words
only:

When you will.'

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE XLVII.

A FEW evenings later Lady Sunbury was in her
own house of wellington in the midst of a large
circle of guests. It was two hours after midnight,
her drawing-rooms and ball-room were
full ; everyone was amused and amusing ;
she was going from one to another with bland
smiles and suitable phrases, her harassed
thoughts all the while with her elder daughter,
who was encouraging the wrong suitor, and her
second son, who was lying dangerously wounded
in India.

In the midst of her occupations and preoccupations,
at the moment when the cotillion
was at its height, one of her servants called her
away and presented to her a letter which had
been brought by a messenger from Italy.
She recognised in the superscription the handwriting
of her brother's wife, and on the seal
the coat-of-arms of the Vernon.

How exactly like her absurd extravagance
! ' she thought with contempt. ' How
exactly like her to send a servant all the way
by express with a letter, just as if we were in
the days of the Stuart or Tutors I What does
she suppose that the postal service and the
electric wires exist for, I wonder ? '

Innovations in trifles always annoyed her
more than anything else ; she was so extremely
irritated at this folly of her sister-in-law in
sending a man-servant to carry a letter by
hand from the continent to England, that in
her annoyance at the trivial eccentricity she
almost forgot her curiosity and apprehension
as to the possible contents of the packet.

She took it, however, to her boudoir, and
there, being alone, opened and read it. The
letter was written by Gladys from Eome, and
began without prefix or preliminary.

Do not blame your brother for anything
that you may hear of him. The fault is altogether
mine. I am not a woman who could
possibly make him happy as his wife. I am
cold, hard, and unforgiving. My father even
told me so more than once before he died.
Therefore blame me entirely, and not Lord

p2

Guilders, for our ensuing separation. There
need be no publicity or scandal of any kind.
I am sensible of the many gifts I have received
from him, and I shall not return them with
ingratitude. But neither will I see him, nor
speak with him, nor live under the roof of any
of his houses. Except that he cannot marry
again whilst I live, he will be as free as he was
before we unhappily met that autumn day
upon the moors. I hope that you will tell
him so from me. I shall take none of
my jewels, nor shall I touch a farthing of
my income from my settlements. What I
have inherited from my father is quite enough
for me to live upon. I have no children
living, so there need be no question whatever
of the interference of lawyers. I shall reside
at the cottage at Christslea, so that you can
all judge for yourselves that my manner of
life is worthy of my father's memory. But
I beg that you will none of you seek for a
moment to attempt to change the resolution
which I have taken, for it is unalterable, and
interrogation and expostulation would be only
unbearably painful to me. You will, I entreat,
lay all blame which may be incurred

upon me. The world has always considered
me ill-suited to him. It will not be astonished
that a union so inharmonious should be
ended by that want of sympathy and temper
which it has always attributed to me. You
have often reproached me with doing nothing
to save your brother's honour. I now at least
do what I can. You repeatedly condemned
me for poor-spirited silence. Be sufficiently
just not to condemn me now for acting as you
have frequently more than hinted to me that I
should do.'

The signature was Gladys Vernon.

When Hilda Sunbury had read the letter
through to the end, her first impulse was to
start at once for the south ; the next moment
she remembered that it was impossible and
would be useless to do so ; she could not leave
Islington for any length of time with her house
full without her absence being known ; and
what had been already done in Naples was
hopeless and irrevocable. After an instant's
meditation she sent for her eldest daughter.

I have had news which must take me to
Balfrons to-night,' she said to her daughter.
You know my uncle is lying very ill there. I

do not wish anyone to know that I am absent.
I shall return the day after tomorrow. You
can say I am indisposed from cold and have to
keep my room. Make no fuss. Amuse everyone.
Be discreet, and do as you would do if
I were here. I shall be back in thirty-six
hours. Say nothing to your father. It is not
worth while. He would only ask innumerable
questions.'

Then with the utmost speed and quietness
she left the house, drove seven miles to take
the morning train to the north, succeeded in
reaching it on the eve of its departure, and
hastened as fast as steam could bear her
across the length of England to where the
mighty keep of Balfrons rose above its oak
woods and faced the Cheviot. She knew that
Aubrey was there.

With the open letter in her hand, she
passed unannounced into the library where he
was seated alone. He was at Balfrons for two
days only. His father was ill, and was at that
age when any slight illness may easily pass
into the last ill of all. No one was staying at
the Castle except the Duchess of Longleat and
her two younger children.

He rose in amazement and alarm as Lis
cousin entered, for it was nearly midnight.

Gladys ? ' he asked instinctively, thrown
off his guard.

Lady Sunbury cast down the letter on the
table before him.

She was pale with passion, which she had
nursed in all its heat and strength during the
lonely hours in which she had sped through
the cold dark winter country from Buckinghamshire
to Berwick.

What did I say ? ' she cried, her voice
hoarse with fatigue and indignation. ' Did I
not always tell you that you would encourage
her in her sentimental, headstrong, insensate
follies until she would bring disgrace upon us
all?'

Aubrey took up the letter, having in that
moment's pause recovered his self-possession.

" Disgrace " is a very large word, and
not a common one in our families,' he said
slowly. ' Let me see what she has said to
warrant its use.'

He read the letter slowly, so slowly that
Lady Sunbury's impatience became well-nigh
ungovernable. She did not know that every

word of it went to the innermost heart of the
reader with that deepest of all sorrows — that
which is powerless to aid the life beloved.

He held it in his hand when he had finished
its perusal.

What is it you blame so much ? ' he asked.
His cousin, seated opposite to him at the great
table at which he had been writing when she
had entered, grew red with indignation and
suppressed feeling.

What? what? ' she repeated. 'Everything,
surely everything, shows the most wanton disregard
for us, the most theatrical resolution to
obtain publicity, the most intolerable selfishness,
the most obvious intent to ruin my brother in
the world's esteem ! And to write it to me —
to me ! You are her confidant and confessor ;
you have always been so ; why could she not
send such a declaration of her projects to you,
if sent it must be at all ? '

'It is natural that she should address you ;
a woman, and her sister-in-law,' said Aubrey
coldly. ' But, pardon me, do you suppose such
a deliberate resolution as this can be arrived at
by anyone so young without some very great
provocation to it ? She does not say what it

is ; but I imagine that both you and I can
guess.'

Lady Sunbury's conscience stung her, remembering
the scene which she had made to
Gladys in the King's Alley at Ladysrood. But
she was not a woman to acknowledge error.

Very possibly she may have had things
which pain her,' she said slightingly. ' But other
women have as much and more to pain them ;
and their sense of duty and of dignity serves to
keep them silent.'

Yes, they keep " silent " by leading a life
of eternal disunion, bickering, and upbraiding as
you do ! ' thought Aubrey as lie answered aloud :

I think you forget her youth ; in youth
these wrongs seem to fill heaven and earth ; as
women grow older they grow used to them, no
doubt, as the camel grows to his burden. The
letter seems to me irreproachable. She asks
nothing ; she demands nothing ; she injures
nothing ; she sacrifices everything and she allows
you to place all the blame on her to the world.
What can anyone do more generous than this?
I fail to understand.'

You mean to say that there is nothing to
be done ! ' she exclaimed.

What should be done ? ' said Aubrey,
with the only impatience which had escaped
him. ' If a woman decides to leave her
husband, and he decides to live so that she
has no choice but to leave him, who is to
reverse that position? They can reverse it
themselves, as long as there is no legal separation.'


And she is to be allowed to live in this
insane manner in solitude in her father's
cottage ? '

No one can prevent her doing so but
Guilders, and it seems to me that he has lost
all possible title to command her even if he
wishes to do so, while it is most probable
that he does not. There is no disgrace in her
limiting herself to her own resources ; there is
even a certain dignity in it, as I consider ! '

Because you are bewitched and infatuated
about her ! ' said his cousin with rude contempt.


Aubrey kept his temper marvellously.

I believe I am neither one nor the other.
I regretted her departure from England. At
your request I endeavoured to dissuade her
from it. I did not succeed. She was unhappy,

and when a woman is so she is never very wise.
I conclude from this letter that on her arrival
in Italy she learned what did not make her
happier. The steps she takes are extreme, that
I grant, but they only injure herself, and there
is no one except her husband who can have any
possible power to try and turn her from them.'

He will not stoop to solicit a woman who
leaves him.'

Stoop ! You speak as though he were
faultless and she had committed some crime
against him ! You must know as well as I do
that something much graver than his usual
caprices must have moved her to write such a
letter and take such a resolve. Do you suppose
that a woman as young as she is voluntarily
severs herself from all the pleasures, graces, and
interests of life, unless life, as it is, has become
wholly intolerable to her ? '

And her duties,' asked Hilda Sunbury,
with violence, ' do they count for nothing ? Is
she to be allowed to play at tennis with the
honour of my brother's family as her racquet ? '

My dear Hilda,' replied Aubrey wearily,
you have always considered that all creation
exists only for the honour of your family. To

others creation may still seem to have some
additional, though no doubt minor, objects
in view. However, even from that point, I
scarcely concede that you can violently censure
Lady Guilders. She offers you all possible
occasion for examination into her life ; she
simply announces her intention of not living
with your brother or in any of his houses. If
he cares, he will seek to change her decision ; if
he does not care, he will necessarily be glad of it.
Anyhow there need be no immediate scandal ;
at any rate unless you are pleased to make it.'
I ! ' exclaimed his cousin, disbelieving her
senses. ' What do I most abhor if not to have a
single breath of the world breathed on me? What
have I not endured that society should never
suspect what I have suffered? What women
have not I compelled myself to receive in my
own homes in order that the outrages inflicted
on me should not form food for social calumnies
and ridicule ? Who in the whole width of
English society has been so constant and so resigned
a martyr as myself to all the indignities
which a man who does not respect himself does
not hesitate to inflict on those whom he should
respect ? And then you presume to say that I —

I! — I, shall bring about scandal concerning my
brother's wife ! It is herself who brings it.
How can a woman do what she is doing 'Without
bringing about her ears a thousand horne
nests of curiosity and misconstruction? How:'
Will you tell me that ? '

The hornets' nests will come no doubt.
They are everywhere,' said Aubrey, with a sigh
of impatience. ' My dear Hilda, forgive me if
I speak plainly ; your own life has been a
painful one ; you have spent it in acrimony,
reproaches, futile efforts to make black white,
and endless quarrels which have never furthered
your purpose one hair's breadth. Your brother's
wife, being unhappy, chooses a more drastic buta
more dignified vengeance. There would be a
third way open to any woman who had the
strength, the patience, and the unselfishness for
it, and I could wish that she had taken it. I
endeavoured to persuade her to take it ; but
she is young, and in youth and in pain the
feelings are treacherous counsellors. What
more is there to be said ? It is to your brother
that you must go. It is useless to come to me.
I am not the guardian of Lady Guilders, nor
am I my cousin's keeper. I have no more

whatsoever to do with this sad letter than my
dog Hubert yonder. It is a mistake on
her ' ""4e, an error, and a grave one ; but he
hPS) brought it about by a much darker fault
on his own, and he cannot complain. Neither
you nor I can possibly interfere. We have no
title to do so. If your brother acquiesce, all
his relatives must acquiesce also. Of that
no reasonable doubt can be urged for one
moment.'

The great dog, hearing his name spoken,
rose and approached, and laid his head upon
Aubrey's knee ; his master stroked him with a
sigh.

Passionate and injurious words rose to Lady
Sunbury's lips, but she repressed them unuttered;
she was pale with rage and offence,
but she had sense enough not to insult a man
whom the nation respected.

'You cannot altogether disclaim responsibility
for her actions,' she said with unkind
and insolent meaning. ' You have guided
them for a long time. You must pardon me
if I do not credit that this letter and the
resolutions contained in it are altogether so
unfamiliar to you as they assume to be. You

were the last person who saw Lady Guilders
in England, and everyone is aware that you
have been for a long time her most cherished
and trusted friend.'

Aubrey rose to the full height of his great
stature, and stood at the end of the great library
table as he had often stood at the table of the
House of Commons.

You are a woman and my cousin,' he said
slowly. ' Both persons are privileged in you.
But be so good as to remember that I do not
allow even a lady to cast a doubt on what I
have said was a fact ; and you will kindly take
care not to hint the insult which you have just
hinted outside the walls of Balfrons.'

She was imperious, courageous, and full of
dark and insolent suspicion, but, bold though
her temper was, and uncontrolled, she did not
dare to affront or offend him farther, and she
was silent.

It is late,' said Aubrey. ' Allow me to
accompany you to your rooms. You will see
Ermyntrude in the morning. She retired very
early, for she was fatigued with watching my
father. To-night he is quieter and asleep.'

Then with all courtesy and ceremony he

waited on her across the halls and corridors
and galleries of the great castle, and only bade
her good-night at the entrance of that suite of
rooms in the tapestried wing which were always
set aside as hers, and which were warmed and
illuminated for her now as though she had
been expected there since noonday. He was
not conscious that he had kept the letter from
Gladys in his hand, and she had been too
enraged and mortified to ask him^for it.

He walked slowly back to his library in
the midnight stillness ; everything was hushed
into greater quiet than usual that the rest of the
old Marquis might not be disturbed. The lamps
burned white between the armoured figures,
the drooping banners, the trophies of arms, the
massive and fantastic carvings of the oak-panelled
walls ; his own steps sank soundless
on the thick carpeting. Hubert followed him
with noiseless velvet feet.

He paused before one of the great un-shattered
casements, with their iron gratings,
which had been there in the Wars of the Roses,
and the blazonries of the House of Balfrons
stained upon their glass. The night without
was frosty and moonlit. There was snow on

the ground, and snow lay on the roof, the
turrets, the corbels, the battlements of the
mighty Border castle. The keep, round, massive,
terrible-looking, like a fortress for giants
in the starry night, towered up in front of him
upon the other side of the quadrangle.

He had a deep and filial love for Balfrons,
and if public life had not called on him for
absence, he would seldom have left its treasure-house
of books, and its great forests filled with
wild cattle and red deer, and all water-birds
and moor birds which ever haunt the reedy

meres of the old romantic Border lands.

•

He sat down in the embrasure of the
window and read her letter over again, word
for word, by the light of the lamp hanging
above his head. There was not a sound
in the house. The clouds swept past the
casement in large moonlit, hurrying armies.
The deep bell of the clock-tower tolled midnight.


Every word of the letter sank into his heart
like a knife. Every word thrilled with the
violence, the misery, the despair of a great
pride which was writhing under abandonment,
outrage, and misconception. The step she had

VOL. III. G

taken was unwise ; it had a child's rashness,
a woman's obstinacy, and a forsaken woman's
recklessness ; but there were a self-negation
and an austerity in it which were in their editor
very noble, and touched chords in his own
nature which responded to them.

I think she would have been happy with
me,' he thought ; and he sighed as lie looked
out at the cold and heinous night and the
great keep towering to the skies.

But now, though he would have laid down
his life to save her, he could not give her one
hour of peace. A furious longing came over
the calm, grave temper of Aubrey to cast all
other considerations, public and private, to the
winds, and avenge her wrongs upon his cousin
with the rude, frank championship of another
age and country than their own. But reflection
told him that such an act could do her only
harm : could only give her name more completely
to the world's tongues, and could only
possibly awaken in her husband's mind doubts
which would dishonour her, and give him, in
his own eyes, a palliative for his own offence
against her.

I have no title to interfere,' he thought

sadly. ' I am not her lover. Scarcely even
did she at last accept me as her friend.'

A thrill of what was to him degrading and
criminal, because a selfish pleasure, passed
through him at the memory of the utter loneliness
to which she had condemned herself, the
dangers, the barrenness of the future which
she had shaped for herself. But he hated the
cruel egotism of the thought ; he spurned and
checked it as it rose in him.

How vile we are at heart ! ' he mused
with disgust and shame for the momentary
selfish hope which had intruded theraselvq^ on
him in his own despite. ' How odiously vile !
and yet God knows if I could by any personal
sacrifice purchase her happiness there is
none at which I would hesitate.'

But what sacrifice could avail anything ?
Her happiness and her wretchedness lay in
other hands than his.

G3

CHAPTER Xlviii.

It was a winter's day when the woman whom
he loved reached the little cottage at Christslea.
having travelled without ceasing, pausing only
for one night in Eome, the night in which she
had written the letter to her sister-in-law.

The bay was shrouded in the white fogs
of a damp December ; the waves were rolling
heavily with a deep roar upon the beach ; the
winds were sighing amongst the leafless orchards
and over the bare scarps of the cliffs.

She went into the little study, still crowded
with her father's books and papers, and bolted
the door, and sat down before the fire on the
lonely hearth. All was still, grey, inexpressibly
solitary. The little place was gay and fragrant
and pleasant in summer time, when the hedges
were full of the songs of birds, and the air full
of the scent of wallflowers and stocks blossoming
in the homely garden ways ; but it was

intensely melancholy in the winter season, with
the silence of mist and cold brooding over its
solitudes.

She shuddered as she looked at the narrow
casements, where the glass was wet with the
vapours of the morning, and the grey veiled
landscape was dull and blotted like a drawing
soaked in rain. It seemed an emblem of her
future existence. She for the first time realised
the choice which she had made, the thing which
she had done.

From the time she had left the palace
in Naples until she arrived here she had had
no distinct sense of what had happened to
her. She had been sustained by the violence
and the fever of an intense passion, by the iron
in her soul of an immense wrong ; she had
gathered a fictitious strength from the magnanimity
and the dignity of her choice, and the
calmness with which she had spoken to her
husband had lasted throughout her journey
homeward until this moment, when, having
dismissed the servants who had accompanied
her in London, she had come wholly alone to
the little house where her father's memory washer
sole companion, and would be her sole

consolation in the future. Then, when, not
heeding or replying to the startled and agitated
questions of the two old people left in charge
there, she came into this chamber where her
father's presence seemed a living and near
thing, the sense of all she had given up, of
all she had accepted, came to her for the first
time in all its nakedness and horror.

She did not regret what she had done :
she would have done it again had she been
called on to ratify her choice : it seemed to
her the only thing which was left for her to do
in common honour and in common courage ;
yet the pale and ghastly terror of it faced heron
the threshold of this chamber like some
ghastly shape. The want of the one familiar
voice so often heard there, the one unfailing
tenderness so often proved there, overcame her
with the sickliness of irrevocable loss. The
pale grey walls, the pallid vellum volumes,
the white discoloured manuscripts, the dull
misty windows, the cold hearth, seemed to her
like so many mourners mourning with her.

Father, father ! ' she cried piteously to the
blankness which was around her ; the silence
alone echoed the cry.

With a gesture of agonised supplication, of
heart-breaking prayer, she stretched her arms
out, seeking some sheer, some embrace, some
kindly hand. The narrow walls of the little
book-room went round and round giddily before
her sight ; the casements narrowed into a
single point of light. She fell face forward
senseless upon the floor, and a great darkness
like night closed in on her.

When she recovered consciousness she was
lying on the little bed which had been hers
in childhood, and she saw the withered brown
face of the old woman who had kept house
there from her earliest memories stooping
above her in anxiety and wonder. She did
not speak, she did not move ; she lay still and
gazed at the whitewashed walls, the sloping
ceiHng, the narrow lattice ; and she remembered
to what a future she had condemned herself.
She saw always before her the face of her
husband as she had seen it in the light and
shadow of the Italian moonlight — cold, pale,
angry, handsome — his eyes resting on her
without a ray of tenderness in them, his hips
speaking passionate declarations of his loyalty
to her rival.

The long swoon, which had frightened the
people of the house, had been due to cold,
fatigue, long fasting, and great emotion. It
left no evil result after it, and with a new and
strange weakness making her limbs tremble
and her brain turn, she went down the narrow
stair in the morning light to take up that life
which was henceforth to be her portion.

There was a fire burning on the study
hearth, and the old folks had set some homely
winter flowers in the grey Flemish jugs on the
centre table. The pale sunshine of a fine
wintry day was falling on the black and white
lines of her father's drawings on the walls.
She sank into his large writing chair before
the table on which his last written sheet, with
the pen on it, lay as he had left them on his
last day of life, and she tried to realise this
catastrophe which had befallen her, this earthquake
which had shaken into ruins all her
summer world.

The violent agitations which had followed
on her arrival in Naples, the hurried and
scarcely conscious journey homeward, the
suddenness and irrevocableness of her own actions,
had given her a stunned and bewildered

feeling like that of a sleeper roused from his
dreams to hear of some misfortune rudely told.

She had written her letter to her sister-in-law
with clearness, force, and calmness, but
with that effort her nerves had given way ;
a burning fever, a painful sense of exhaustion,
had followed on it, and though she had controlled
all outward sign of them until her
arrival at Christslea, they left her enfeebled
and unnerved. She was terrified by the
violence of the passions which she felt, and
which had been intensified by the control over
them which she had maintained whilst in her
husband's presence.

Am I no better than this ? ' she thought,
ashamed and appalled at the furies which
raged in her breast. She leaned over the fire,
shivering and hot by turns as if with ague.
She did not regret her choice ; she had no
other which would have seemed to her endurable;
but the horror of her future was very
ghastly to her, and as she sat alone in the little
dull room, with the rime frost white on the
panes of the window and the noise of the waves
coming up through the silence, the memory of
the gay southern sunshine in which she had

left him, the perfumed air, the sparkling seas,
the shores of the Sirens, was ceaselessly before
her, and life seemed to her a burden too
intolerable to be borne.

The slow dark day wore on ; the clock
ticked off its tedious hours ; the fire burned
bright or burned dull ; there was no other
change. The old dog who had been at her
father's feet in his last moments lay beside her,
lifting every now and then drowsy and tender
eyes to her face. They brought her food, but
she could not take it. She drank a cup of
milk : that was all. She took up her father's
Virgil, and tried to read the passages in which
she had been used to take most delight,
but she could make no sense of the familiar
lines ; the letters swam before her sight, and
she laid the book down with a sick despair.

Would all her life be like this r — with every
interest of art and intellect, every innocent
pleasure of nature, every harmless charm of
existence, made void and useless to her ?

Ah, how little my dear father knew ! ' she
thought, seeing the red embers of the hearth
through blinding tears. He had bade her
make her love so great that no other woman

could give its equal. What use were that ?
What avail to pour out gold at the feet of him
who only sees in it mere dross ? — to offer the
universe to one who is only impatient of the
gift?

There was nothing in her that her husband
cared for ; what mattered it to him that she
was altogether his, body and soul ? He would
in all likelihood be more grateful to her for
an infidelity which should set him wholly free.

CHAPTEE XLIX.

As she sat thus till the sombre day grew to
the third hour after noon, she heard the latch
of the garden lifted and a man's footsteps
crush the wet shingle of the pathway to the
porch.

She rose, breathless, her heart beating to
desperation with the wildness of a sudden hope.

She thought it possible that Guilders might
have followed her there, might have repented
of his choice, might have come to offer her his
atonement and regret.

A terrible disappointment blanched her
white face whiter still as the door opened, and
she saw in the shadow of the passage-way
beyond the lofty statue of Aubrey.

He was the best friend that she had on
earth, but had he been her cruellest enemy the
sight of him could not have hurt her more
than it did then.

Aubrey came up to her and took her hands
in his with unutterable tenderness and compassion.


My poor child — my poor daring — how I
grieve for you,' he said with broken voice.

Then she knew that he must have read the
letter which she had written in Eome.

Yes, Hilda showed me your letter,' he
said, answering the interrogation of her regard.
It shocked me. I would have given my right
hand that you had not written it, still more
that you had not been caused to write it. For
it is a fatal error, Gladys.'

^ I could do no less,' she said coldly. The
reaction of the intense hope which had for a
moment leaped up in her made her feel sick and
faint ; she disengaged her hands from his, and
seated herself by the hearth in the great chair,
her back almost turned to him.

'You could have done nothing at all. It
would have been wiser,' he said with infinite
pity. ' My dear,' he added reproachfully, ' only
think what it is that you have done. What
will you have made of your life .^ Could you
not have had a little faith in my warnings .^ '

She hardened her heart against her truest

Guilders

friend ; she gathered her pride about her
coldly and stiffly ; she saw in him only the
messenger and mouthpiece of her husband's
family.

'I have done nothing that any of Lord
Guilders's friends can blame,' she answered.
I have said nothing to any one of all my
acquaintances, and I shall say nothing to any of
them. I only ask to be left alone. I am sure
that I am living as my father would have
wished me to live, and I shall spend nothing
but that which he has left me.'

She spoke in a measured and constrained
voice as to a stranger. She could not forgive
Aubrey what she thought his preference
of his cousin's cause and desertion of her
own.

You have done most unwisely,' he said,
with a sigh. ' I am not defending my cousin,
God forbid! He is beyond all defence, all
excuse, and I should be ashamed to attempt
to give him either ; but you would have had
fuller sympathy from the world at large and
greater comfort, I think, in your own thoughts
if you had taken no active part in the destruction
of your ties to him.'

'I did nothing more than was my right,'
she said coldly.

That I do not dispute. But, as I told you,
a woman's rights are her rashest councillors.
After all, dear, what has one human being of
real " right " over any other's life ? To claim
affection is idle. If it be no longer ours we
must break our hearts as we will. We cannot
bridle the winds. We must wait in patience
till they blow again whither we would have
them.'

Then no woman must ever listen to the
words of any man ! '

I did not mean that. I meant that when
we have the calamity to be loved no more we
must revile neither man nor woman, we must
look within. Maybe we shall there see the
cause of our woe.'

She flushed hotly with anger.

How have I been to blame ? It is not
my fault that his caprice only lived a day.'

Aubrey was silent. She understood that
his silence was blame.

You are unjust, like all his family,' she
said passionately. ' I have made no scandal,
no exposure, no publicity. I shall make

none. What more can his friends demand?
He is left in peace with the only woman whom
he loves ! '

My dearest Gladys,' said Aubrey wearily,
I am not defending him. It has gone hard
with me not to revenge you with old-fashioned
violence which would have made him pay for
your tears with his body. You may believe
that not to do so has been the greatest effort of
my life.'

Her eyes softened and grew dim.

Is that really true ? '

I do not say what is not true, dear.'

She stretched her hand out to him. ' I
thank you very much,' she said in a broken
voice.

Aubrey kissed her hands with reverence
and an emotion which he endeavoured to subdue.

I am no lover or knight, my dear,' he
said sadly, ' and the publicity of my life makes
indulgence in romance impossible to it ; but I
should be less than a man if I did not feel for
you the deepest, the most indignant sympathy.
That your wound should have been dealt you
by one of my kindred makes me feel it like a
personal dishonour '

He paused, and with a strong effort controlled,
unuttered, words of greater tenderness
and fuller confession.

'But I will tell you honestly,' he added,
after a pause, ' that I regret and blame your
actions. They will cost you dear, and you
have not measured the price of them. There
is much that is fine and even heroic in yours.
But can you honestly say, dear, that you believe
your father, were he standing here now,
would tell you that you had done well or
wisely ? '

She was silent. She was too truthful to
assert a belief which she could not entirely
feel.

You cannot ; for he was a wise and goodman.
He knew that women are always their
own enemies when they follow the dictates of
pride, and of pique, and of jealousy. Pardon
me if these words seem unfeeling ; they are
inadequate to express the great wrong that you
suffer from, but after all they are the only ones
which can describe the impulses which you
have acted on now.'

May there not be such things as outraged
decency and delicacy and indignant honour ? '

VOL. III. H

Yes, no doubt ; who could deny them ?
But feeling alone is the most dangerous of
guides. It drowns us in deep waters while we
think ourselves safe on dry land. You. imagined
you were sparing Guilders the comment of
the world ; on the contrary, the world blames
him and blames you equally, and through you,
where it would only have seen a mere passing
difference, will now see a scandalous and unalterable
offence.'

I cannot help it if his passions are so made
that they do not last a year ; if it is what he
has not which always seems so much better
than what he has. It is not my fault if he
married me as he would buy a cocotte and
tired of me as he would tire of her. I have
released him as far as I can possibly release
him until death takes me. I will not eat of
his bread, or live under his roof. I will not
wear a gown he paid for, nor a ring he purchased
; even my marriage ring I threw down
before him — he did not even see it — what did
he care ? He was only thinking of her ; sighing
for her because she had the wit to assume
indifference to him ! '

She spoke with violence and with vehement

scorn ; lie had never seen her so strongly moved
before, often as he had had to soothe her
indignation and persuade her into peace.

All that she had endured in silence since
she had left Naples broke out in these the
first words which she had been able to pour
into the ear of any listener.

He stroked her hair tenderly as he might
have touched the hair of a suffering child.

Calm yourself, my dear,' he said gently.
Many women suffer what you suffer now.
Only believe me, the remedy you have chosen
is one which will harass and deepen your
wound and never heal it. You have called the
world in as your physician. It is one which
kills and does not cure.'

Perhaps it would be best that I should kill
myself; I have thought of it often. But I
always remember that my father thought suicide
a cowardice. Sometimes I am inclined
to do it, it would set him free. Perhaps he
would think of me with kindliness if I were
dead.'

And are there none who would regret
you more than that ? ' said Aubrey with a rebuke
in his voice which he could not restrain.

H 2

No ; why should they ? If I am nothing
to him I am nothing to any one.'

She spoke wearily, listlessly, thinking only
of herself. Aubrey's heart beat quickly; he
said nothing, and she did not look at his
face.

There was long silence between them, filled
only by the lulling noises of the sea.

It is impossible that you can remain
here ! ' he said abruptly at last. ' You are too
young, twenty years too young. You wish to
stay the tongues of the world ; what can set
them in full cry like such an act as this ? '

They will say I am cold and odd. They
have said so very often before. That is the
worst they can say — I have never heeded it.'

It is not the worst ! They will attribute
motives to you of which you do not dream.'

What motives ? '

My dear ! when a woman does not live
with her husband, society is always sure that
she lives with some one else. You force me to
be brutally sincere.'

Her cheeks flushed ; she raised her head
with hauteur.

My life is free to all his family to observe.

There is no concealment in it. It is as plain to
be seen as the white face of that cliff.'

That is the sublime madness of innocence !
The more open, simple, and harmless it actually
is, the more will the world be certain that it
conceals a secret and an intrigue.'

'That must be as it may. My own conscience
is enough for me. And surely you
forget ; the world knows— it cannot choose but
know — that Lord Guilders finds his happiness
elsewhere.'

And the world, which is always ready to
excuse the man and accuse the woman, will
very possibly say that it is pardonable he should
do so, because — who knows what devilry they
will not say? Only of this you may be very
sure, that they will never believe that a woman
of your years voluntarily shuts herself in such
solitude as this without consolation.'

They can believe what they please. If
they place the blame on me, not on him, I shall
have done what my father always bade me do —
bear his faults for him. I shall receive no
one. It is impossible that calumny can invent
anything, unless they find sin in the gulls of the
air and suspicion in the rabbits of the moors.'

They will find it even in these, doubt not,
rather than find it nowhere.'

They must do so then.'

You are cruel and perverse.'

I do not mean to be either. But I will
not reside in any one of your cousin's houses,
nor will I touch any shilling of my dower from
him. I am nothing to him. He is nothing to me.
I only still keep his name because I cannot be
relieved of it without publicity, nor even with
publicity, I believe, as the laws of marriage
stand.'

No, you could not. And you would not
free yourself if you could.'

Why do you say so ? '

Because you always care for him. Some
day you will pardon him, some day he will
ask you to do so, and such forgiveness will
be the renewal of affection.'
Never ! '

Oh, my child ! how long does a woman's

never " last ? So long as the man whom she

loves does not kneel at her feet, and no longer.'

The colour deepened in her face.

What you say to me is an insult. I have

no feeling for the lover of the Duchess Soria ;

or, if I have, I pray God night and day to
tear it from my heart, for it is dishonour —
abasement — ignominy ! When I forget it or
forgive it, you may tear my heart out of my
body and throw it to the hounds of Bal-front
! '

Do not make rash vows, my dear,' said
Aubrey gently. ' Women forgive everything
when they really love.'

No— no— not that ! '

Oh, yes, and far worse than that. What
use is love if it be not one long pardon ? '

Then it is one long weakness ! '

Or one long and inexhaustible pity — one
long and infinite strength.'

There was a tone in his voice which soothed
the passionate unrest and indignation of her
soul. It seemed to her as though she heard
her father's voice speaking by Aubrey's lips.

You are good,' she said wistfully. ' I
wish you had loved me and I you.'

The words were as innocent as though a
child had spoken them, but they tried the forbearance
of the hearer of them with a cruel
martyrdom.

He rose hastily, glanced at the dusky

shadows of the declining day, and bade her a
hurried farewell.

You will come and see me often ? ' she
asked him, as she held his hand in hers. He
looked away from her.

As often as I can, dear. You know I
have so little time for my own affairs. You
shall always know where I am, so that you
may send to me in a moment if you need.
Adieu. Believe me your firmest friend, even
though I am no flatterer and do not pretend to
approve you in what you now do. I will
write often to you, and you will write to me.
I hope that you will soon write to tell me that
you renounce this cruel choice of life.'

The calm and unimpassioned words cost
him much in their utterance. He longed to
offer her his life, his soul, his endless devotion,
to put away all national needs and duties from
him and cleave only to her, if he could comfort
her or atone to her in any way ; but he
resisted the temptation and left her with kind
and tranquil farewell. He knew that her
heart was not his, he believed that it would
never be his ; he scorned to try to persuade
her that indignation and revenge and loneliness

and gratitude mingled together could
ever make fair counterfeit of love. The
lesson might be taught perhaps with time.
A bruised heart is often like a wounded bird ;
it falls to the first hand which closes on it ;
but he thought that such affection would
never be love in any sense, in any shape ; he
believed that all of love which would ever stir
in her breast was now and would be ever
given to the man who had abandoned her.

Other men, more easily contented and of
less susceptible honour than he, might have
endeavoured to supply the lost passion, to
replace the perished joys; to persuade 'her
that all she felt of bitterness and wrong could
be most deeply and surely, and most thoroughly
in kind, avenged by the acceptance of other
sympathies and other affections than those
which were denied her.

But Aubrey's were not the lips to utter
these persuasions or these sophisms ; nor would
he, well as he loved her, have cared ever to
accept the mere fruits of a tortured jealousy
and humiliation, which in their sufferings
might have imagined themselves love.

As he left Christslea he looked across the

misty wintry wold, across to the horizon,
where the brown woods, the shining roofs,
and the many spires and towers of Ladysrood
were faintly visible on the grey clouded edge of
the far moors.

Its master had left his fairest treasure unguarded
and unremembered, thought Aubrey ;
if any bore it away from him whom could he
blame but himself?

CHAPTER L.

The days and weeks and months drifted
on ; the chilly spring, the uncertain summer,
the stormy autumn of an English year succeeded
one another, and the dawn broke and
the night fell over the lonely shore of Chris ts-
lea, bringing no change in the monotony of
Gladys* existence.

Guilders remained out of England. The
world, with its usual discrimination, pitied him
and blamed Aubrey.

Vox FcemincB vox Dei,' and women
without exception took part against Gladys
whenever they now remembered her at all,
which was but seldom. They were all of them
certain that she could have been entirely happy
with her husband had she chosen, since he was
always so charming ; it was her want of amiability
and of tact, they agreed, which had
caused his errors. No one with such exquisite

manners as his could be otherwise than most
easy to live with ; ah ! why had he thrown
himself away on any one so utterly unsympathetic
?

Here and there some man who had always
admired her beauty, or who had reasons of his
own for knowing that Guilders was not a
faithful husband or a constant lover, lifted up
his voice in her defence ; but such a one was
always in a very narrow majority, and rallied
few to his opinions.

Hilda Sunbury, moreover, had pronounced
against her sister-in-law : that was quite
enough to condemn her. She was not, indeed,
at ease in her own conscience for having
done so ; but that society did not know.
She was a woman of honesty of purpose
and rectitude of character. She was aware
that she had been the primary cause of
the final separation between Guilders and
his wife, and she was constantly haunted by
Vernon's farewell words. But her dislike to
the mistress of Ladysrood had been stronger
than her candour or her justice ; her prejudices
for her family were stronger than her regard
for pure truth. She had the power of swaying

her world in favour of her brother to the
injury of his wife, and she exercised the power,
indifferent to the claims of innocence and right.

I always knew you were an unsympathetic
woman, but I never thought that you
were an unscrupulous one until now,' Aubrey
said to her unsparingly in that London world
which she was using all the force of her unimpeachable
position and her distinguished virtue
to turn against her brother's wife.

I say what I believe,' she replied, with
chilly dignity and great untruth.

'Ask your God to forgive you for your
thoughts, then,' said Aubrey.

He felt all the disgust of a man who knows
the innocence of a woman before the calumny
of her by other women.

He knew that Hilda Sunbury in her soul
was as fully aware of the purity of her brother's
wife as he was ; and her efforts to stain the
whiteness of Gladys' name, that her brother's
faults might be dealt with leniently by the
world, seemed to him as dark a. crime as any
murder ; almost worse than crime, because
more cowardly, since secure from all punishment.
He himself was powerless to avenge it.

Any protest of his made the position of the
one whom he desired to protect more questionable.


Almost every one believed that he was her
lover : he felt that, though no hint of it could
ever be given to him. He knew it by the
silence of others about her to him and before
him ; he knew it by that instinct with which
both men and women of sensitive temperament
become conscious of the opinion of their society
about them, even when it is most carefully
hidden from them. He knew it by the unwillingness
of his sister, once so warmly her friend,
to speak at all of Gladys to him.

There is a silence around us at times upon
the name dearest to us which tells us without
words that others know that it is thus dear.

More than once he was tempted to write
to or seek out Guilders ; but he felt that by
him, as by society at large, his interference on
behalf of Gladys would be at once suspected
and disregarded, might injure her greatly, and
could do her no possible service.

And his wrath was so bitter against one
who could remain absent, lulled in voluptuous
pleasures, whilst her life was beating

itself as painfully against its prison bars as any
bird's, that he felt incapable of preserving any
measure in rebuke, or even insult, if he once
allowed himself to address his cousin either
by spoken or by written word. Any quarrel
between them would become of necessity
national property for public comment. Rank,
like guilt, ' hath pavilions but no privacy.'

Meanwhile, despite all, she herself did
not repent her choice. She would not, for
all that the world could have given her,
have continued to dwell in his house and
spend his income. She would not at any price
have borne the constant stare of wonder or the
semi-smile of pity with which she would have
been met in society by those whose spoken
words would only have been of homage or of
courtesy. Of all unendurable positions hers
would have been the most painful, had she
been living amongst his acquaintances and
friends. Here at least she had such kind of
tranquillity as solitude can afford. The fisher
people on the shore asked her no questions ;
the bright bold eyes of the orchard birds had
no cruel curiosity in them ; and the unobtrusive
councils written on the pages of the dead

men of old had no inquisitiveness or censure
underlying them as those of living speakers
would have had. She was glad of such isolation,
as all those who suffer from humiliation
as well as from calamity are glad of it. But it
seemed to her as if the whole world were dead,
and she alone living in it.

All that stir and blaze and noise and
change and pomp and pageantry of society,
in which she had dwelt ever since her
marriage, were all gone as though she had
never known them. A silence like that of
a tomb seemed always around her. The
steep white cliffs which rose in a semicircle
around Christslea were like the walls of a
dungeon. She heard nothing from the misty
dawns until the starless nights, except the
rolling up of the waves upon the sands, the
cry of the owls flitting at dusk amongst the
boughs, the distant shouts of the crews in
the fishing cobbles out at sea, or the shrill
weak voices of the old man and woman of
the house garrulously quarrelling over their
work in garden, kitchen, cellar, or apple-house.


Sometimes it seemed to her as if the years

of her life with Guilders had been only the
mere dream of a night. She felt material losses,
too, which it humiliated her to acknowledge.
The homely and simple ways of life at Christslea
were irksome and barren to her. All which she
had despised, whilst she had enjoyed them, of the
beauty, the graces, and the luxuries of existence
were now lacking to her, and she missed them
with a continual sense of need of them which
surprised and mortified her. She had believed
herself wholly indifferent to those mere externals
; those elegances and indulgences which
in the imagined asceticism of her renunciation
she had counted as wholly unnecessary to her.
She missed them at every turn, at every moment
; she realised how much they contributed
to the ease and grace if not to the happiness
of existence. Her father had voluntarily
resigned them all, and no expression of regret
for them had ever escaped his lips, and she
had fancied that she could imitate his philosophy.
But the youth and the sex in her
had not either his resignation or his endurance
; and she suffered from the mere physical
and material deprivation of her solitude ashe
had never done, having attained the trans

111. I

quality of middle age and of a scholar's
stoicism. She had overestimated her own
strength, and underrated the power of memory
and desire.

The little lonely house which had been the
heaven of her childhood was the prison of her
body and her spirit now. She had force of
character enough to make her adhere to her
decision, but she had not coldness of nature
enough to make her at peace in it. She had
known all the fullest joys of the passions,
and all that the world could give of pleasure
and of admiration. She could not resign herself
to these empty, joyless, stupid, eventless
hours which succeeded each other with eternal
monotony as the lengths of grey worsted
rolled off the ball with which the old housekeeper
knitted hose from noon to night, by
the hearth in winter and by the porch in
summer.

It was in vain that she strove to find those
consolations in study which her father had never
failed to find ; in vain that she opened the black-letter
folios and the Latin volumes in which, asa
child, she had thought it her dearest privilege
to read ; in vain that even in her father's

own manuscripts she found nothing of wisdom
although their precepts of patience were as
true as those of PubHus Cyrus. In vain did
she seek those cain and golden counsels ; they
fell cold as icy water on the heat and pain of
her restless suffering. When she looked off
from the written or the printed words she saw
the face of her rival, and she heard the voice of
her husband saying always, ' She is the only
woman whom I have ever loved. God help
me!'

Often she pushed the books and papers
aside, and went out in all weathers, when
the white rain was driving in fury over the
moors, and when the waves were rising ina
wall of foam to break in thunder on the
beach.

Nothing hurt her. She returned home often
drenched to the skin, but she took no harm.
Great pain, like great happiness, often bestows
an almost more than mortal immunity from all
bodily ailments. ' And I am always well ! ' she
sometimes thought, almost in anger with nature
for its too abundant gifts to her of health and
strength.

He will think I do not care,' she

I 2

said to herself bitterly, ' because I do not
die!'

She knew that, with a man's hasty and
superficial judgment, he was very likely to
think so if he thought of her at all.

From the summit of the moor which rose
behind the house she could see Ladysrood in
the far distance. On the rare days of sunshine
the gilded vanes and the zinc roofs glittered in
distant points of light above the woods. The
great house was left to that silence and darkness
which had been so often its portion in
other years. Once or twice some of the old
servants came to Christslea and begged to see
her, for she was beloved by the household ; but
she did not encourage them to return. She
had sent for her dogs, and for some of her
books from there ; that was all. She would
not even have any of her clothes. With an
exaggeration of feeling, which even to Aubrey
seemed morbid and overstrained, she stripped
herself of everything which had become hers
by her union with Guilders, and wore the
plainest and the cheapest apparel that she could
find. But the beautiful and symmetrical lines
of her form gave their own nobility to those

humble stuffs ; and in her rough serge, white or
black, she had no less distinction than she had
had in her pearl-sown velvet train at a state
ball.

The insincerities, the conventionalities, and
the feigned friendships of society had always
been painful and oppressive to her, even when
she had been comparatively happy amongst
them. In her present circumstances they
would have been an intolerable torture. She
had her father's sensitive horror of compassion
and of comment, and if alone and wretched
at Christslea she was at the least unmolested.
Her retirement had been a nine days' wonder
to her acquaintances ; in a short time other
mysteries, other scandals, other interests took
its place: she was not there, others were.
Society, with the indifference which follows its
curiosity as surely as night follows day, ceased
to speak of her, and almost forgot that she
existed.

She had been left unopposed to abide by the
choice she had made ; and of her husband she
heard nothing. He had passed out of her existence
as utterly as though he lay in his grave
like her father.

If he were dead they would tell me,' she
thought : if he were dead they would remember,
for a day at least, that she was his
wife.

Unconsciously to herself, her selection of
Christslea, amongst other reasons, had been
actuated by the sense that there at least she
would be sure to hear if any accident or illness
befell him. She could not bring herself to ask
for tidings of him even of Aubrey ; but she
knew that the lord of Ladysrood could have
no great ill happen to him without such at
once becoming the common talk of the whole
country side. Day and night she thought of
him as she had last seen and heard him,
passionately declaring to her his preference of
her rival and his allegiance to her. Yet even
in that moment he had seemed to her stronger,
manlier, more worthy, than he had seemed to
her before in the incessant capacities and the
halt-hearted intrigues of his other and less open
infidelities. At least there was on his lips no
lie, and in his acts no subterfuge.

Even in the agony of the jealousy and
the indignity which consumed her, she reached
some faint perception of what her father

had meant when he had bade her attain a
love which could see as God saw, and pardon
as men hope that their God pardons them.
But it was only in brief, far separated, intervals
that such perception came to her ; for the
most part she was devoured by those burning
tortures of jealous imaginations which make
every moment of existence almost insupportable
to those they torment.

She recovered her bodily strength quickly ;
she had too perfect health for it to be easily
overcome by any suffering of the mind or
of the senses ; the vigorous and abounding
life which filled her veins became a 'cruel
mockery of the weariness and barrenness
of her empty days and her starved affections.
When she had thought of Christslea as a haven
of rest in which she could let her sick soul lie
hidden in peace, she had remembered it as it
had been with her father's presence filling it as
with the benign and cheerful light of spiritual
sunshine. She had forgotten that without him
it could be only a lonely and dreary cottage
like any other, a bald, poor, empty life, lived
out face to face with eternal losses and eternal
regrets.

What had been left her through her father
was a trifle indeed ; no more than one of the
head servants of Ladysrood was paid a year ;
but it was enough for such few wants as her Kfe
here comprised, and the rental of the cottage
she paid into the hands of the steward every
three months.

My lord does not permit me to receive
it,' said the steward, in infinite perplexity and
distress.

But I insist that you shall take it,' she
replied. ' Pay it into the poor-box of Lady's
parish church if you can do nothing
else.'

And it was paid to the poor accordingly.
She would not owe to him one square inch of
the soil in which the stocks and the sweet-briar
grew. Everything that was not the
gift of her father, or of Aubrey and his
sister, she had left behind her ; all her costly
wardrobes, her furs, her laces, her fans,
her pictures, her jewels of all sorts, remained
in his houses where they were, locked
up in their chests and cabinets and cases, and
the keys were deposited with his men of
business.

You have acted as tliongh you were
guilty, and not he,' Aubrey said to her again
and again, remonstrating with what seemed to
him exaggerated feeling.

I could not have borne my life if I had
kept any single thing of his,' she answered,
with an energy which was almost violence.
Everything he ever gave me is at Ladysrood,
from my bridal pearls down to the last gift he
bought for me.'

I do not deny that there is nobility and
renunciation in your withdrawal into this obscurity
and beggary,' replied Aubrey, ' but it
is a mistake. It has made a thing which the
world need never have known become inevitably
the world's talk. It may sound priggish,
pretentious, or unfeeling perhaps, my dear, if I
say so, but I have always held that people of our
order have no right to gratify their own private
vengeance, or even set themselves free from
painful obligation, if by so doing they bring the
name they represent upon the common tongues
of the crowd. This is the sense of the old
noblesse oblige. We do not belong only to ourselves.
We are a part of the honour of our
nations. When we do anything on the spur of

personal passion or personal injury, which
brings those whose name we bear into disrepute,
we are faithless to our traditions and our
trusts.'

She sighed heavily, and the tears rolled off
her lashes down her cheeks. She knew that
he was right ; no appeal to dignity and honour
could leave untouched the inmost chords of the
heart of John Vernon's daughter.

I will never do anything to lower his
name myself,' she said, with emotion. ' Never,
let me suffer what I may.'

Of that I am sure,' replied Aubrey ; ' but
without thought you have done what must inevitably
draw the comment and the censure of
the world upon you both.'

Not I. It was not my fault, though I
have taken all blame for it. He had left me
openly for her ; he had resolved to do so
before I set foot in Naples.'

It need never have been known to the
world in general if you had continued to bethe
mistress of his houses, and with time you
might have regained his affections.'

A hot blush of deepest anger scorched up
the tears upon her cheeks. ' I could not live

like that ; I would not exist a day in such
hypocrisy and degradation.'

Why will you talk of death, my dear ?
you will outlive me and Guilders by many
years. You are hardly more than a child
still.'

And do not children die ? It is true death
never takes those who wish for it ; and I am
always well — cruelly well — absurdly well ! '

That is ungrateful to fate, my dear.
Would you be happier if you were lying on a
sick-bed, paralysed with bodily pains torturing
you, as well as mental ? '

It would be a less harsh contrast. Oh,
yes ! I know that I am thankless, ungracious,
wicked, I dare say ; but when I feel such perfect
health in me, such untiring strength, I wonder
what are the use of them, why they stay with
me, why they could not make my little children
strong enough too, so that they might have
lived. His sister always says it was my fault
that they died. I do not think it was.'

Yes ; I wish your children had lived. You
would not have severed your life from his
then ? '

Oh, yes, I should. I should have done

just the same ; only I should have had them
with me. He would not have taken them
away from me. I heard him say once that
a man was a brute who could take her
children from any woman, at any age, whatever
the law might allow to him.'

Aubrey looked at her in surprise.

My dear, when you can recognise qualities
and feelings in him like this, why did you
not have more patience with him? Human
nature cannot give unalloyed excellence, and
human affections should not expect it. In what
we love we are sure to find grave faults, and
faults which often are of the kind which we of
all others most disparage ; but we must accept
them just as we would accept blindness or
lameness, or any physical accident in the person
we loved.'

That depends on the character of the
faults.'

Does it not rather depend on our own
character ? I admit that what is vile or utterly
false and feeble will kill affection, because it
destroys the very roots in which it is planted.
But the infidelities of the passions and the
waywardness of the instincts are not sins so

dark as to be unpardonable ; they are, indeed,
faults almost inseparable from manhood.'

She looked at him wistfully.

You would be faithful to any woman you
loved, I think ? '

There is no question of myself,' said
Aubrey impatiently. ' I have had no time for
the soft follies of life, and my mistress is
England, who is a very exacting one. The
question, under consideration now, is of my
cousin. His offences against you are very
grave ; but they are of a kind which you
must have learned enough in these years to
know are inseparable from such a temperament
as his, and which I think every woman should
force herself to overlook.'

If she felt herself in the least loved by him
or necessary to him, yes,' she answered, with
force and emotion. ' All the question lies
there. If he had ever loved me I might believe
that he might care for me more or less again.
But I knew — I knew almost at once — that he
never did. As far as he can love at all he
loves her. I am nothing to him but a person
who is in the way ; who prevents him from
marrying her ; who encumbers his life and

draws down unpleasant comments on him from
the world. You cannot alter that. There is
nothing to touch or to appeal to in it.'

'I think that you mistake, that you exaggerate.
Look in your mirror, and see if you
are a woman to whom a man so susceptible to
female charms as he is, can ever be wholly
indifferent.'

She smiled sadly, with that premature
knowledge of the world which had so embittered
her life with its disillusions.

If I were a stranger or a mere acquaintance
I should have charm for him perhaps.
Surely, my friend, you must understand that,
being what I am to him, I have none.'

He looked at her again ; they were walking
by the edge of the cliff behind the house in one
of the rare hours in which he permitted himself
to visit her. It was a rough, rude day,
with boisterous winds and a high sea tumbling
black and frothy far down below them. The
mists hung heavily over the inland landscape,
and all the northern horizon, where the woods
of Ladysrood were, was hidden by a white
thick fog. But on the table-land of the cliffs
the breeze was blowing strongly, and it gave

warmth to her cheeks and brilliancy to her
eyes, and blew some of the short waves of her
hair in disorder upon her forehead. The wind,
and the cold, and the air from the sea, lent hera
vividness of colouring and of expression which
for the moment banished the gloom and sadness
which were now habitual on her face.

If he could see her now,' thought Aubrey,
surely he would come back to her.'

He turned his own eyes from her and gazed
out over the stormy sea, afraid of the emotions
into which he might be hurried.

His position grew daily more and more
difficult as sole counsellor and friend of the
deserted wife of his own cousin ; more and
more painful to himself and invidious before
others. Though passion had had little
place in his life, his nature was far from
passionless, and he realised that the time might
come when it would be impossible to him
longer to preserve this attitude of calm, paternal
affection towards her.

With all the unconsciousness of a woman
whose thoughts and feelings are centred elsewhere,
she unwittingly tempted him and tortured
him a hundred times an hour. The

very pleasure with which she welcomed him ;
the sense she often expressed to him that
he was her one consolation and protection,
the instinct of confidence in which she turned
to and leaned on him in her loneliness, appealed
more than any other thing could have
done to a man of his merciful and magnanimous
temperament. But they also tried
his self-control more cruelly than any other
things, and often made him dread that his
voluntarily accepted office would be one beyond
his force.

All the public obligations and national
interests with which his life was filled, although
they gave him that hold on duty and on honour
which it would have been a crime in his eyes to
relax, his position before the country being the
conspicuous one which it was, they yet could
not still in him either the rebellion of chained
passions or the natural yearnings of the heart.

He was a man of higher principle and
stronger force of self-denial than most ; but he
was also a man of warmer feeling than most,
and his love had never been weakened by being-divided
and frittered away in such innumerable
amours as had swayed in their turn the fancies of

Guilders. All the grave and absorbing claims
upon his life from his party and his country
could not prevent his unspoken attachment to
his cousin's wife growing daily and hourly in
influence on him. But he had strength to keep
it untold, for he felt that any expression of it
would destroy the serenity of trust with which
she looked to him in all things, and would
alarm her, dismay her, and leave her utterly
alone.

He was her only friend ; for all others whom
she knew had fallen from her. Her life was
dreary and dangerous as it was. With none to
whom she could show her aching heart, it would
become ,to her, he knew, a solitude beyond the
strength of any woman so young to endure.
She herself had that oblivion of possible calumny
and of the imputation of low motives which is at
once the strength and the feebleness of noble
natures, and leaves them exposed to the false
constructions of those who, unheeded b}^ them,
observe them with malevolence and coarseness ;
such malevolence and such coarseness as are
always the foundations of the superficial judgments
of society. She did not think for a
moment of any possible misconstruction of that

VOL. III. K

kindly and honest affection which Aubrey had
shown her ever since he had first met her in
the little Watteau cabinet at Guilders House
the day after her first drawing-room. He had
been always there to serve her in any difficulty,
to counsel her in any distress ; it was natural
that he should come to her now in her solitude.

It seemed to her strange that he came so
little ; it seemed even unkind and unjust. She
accused him in her thoughts of leaning to his
cousin's side, of being so swayed by family considerations
of pride and sympathy of kindred
that he palliated and excused his cousin's conduct
to an extent which was injustice to herself
Woman-like, she required in her friend
unlimited approval and undivided sentiment ;
she wanted to hear him tell her that she had
done wholly right, was wholly to be pitied and
esteemed. The slightest reservation in sympathy
struck on her aching heart as with the
cold severity of censure.

It made him afraid for her sake to assume
any prominence in her affairs or to take that
part on her behalf with his cousin which it
would have been his natural impulse to take.
Neither Guilders nor the world would ever

have credited him with the unselfish feelings
which would have been his only motive power.
He saw no way in Vv^hich he could assist without
more greatly injuring her. He knew, too,
that it was likely enough they would associate
his own name with the causes of her voluntary
retirement ; and he was conscious that every
step he took, and every word he spoke in her
protection or defence, would only create more
strongly the impression that he in some way or
another controlled her destinies.

Nor did he disguise from her that all his
family blamed her ; even his sister blamed her.
They were intolerant of a publicity and eccentricity
which they could not conceal from society,
and of which with more or less undisguised
inquisitiveness the world around them wearied
them incessantly for the explanation. They felt
all the impatience of a proud and sensitive race
at the needless wonder and conjecture which
were aroused by her retirement to her father's
cottage. It had caused a public scandal where
the world need have known nothing of the differences
between herself and her husband.

True, she herself knew that Guilders has left
her never to return to her, and that such total

K 2

separation from lier had been the price put by
her rival on her re-acceptance of his vows ; but
they did not know this, and, had they known it,
would have thought it a mere delirium on his
part which would pass away with time and
with indulgence. They would have censured
him strongly, but they would not have deemed
her justified by his conduct in taking such a
course as gave her name to the whole world to
tear in pieces in the excitement of its curiosity
and based interrogation. The view which
Hilda Sunbury took of her action was in the
main the view of all those powerful families
with which Guilders was connected, whether
closely or distantly, by blood or alliance.
They defended him because he belonged to
them ; and they visited her with their displeasure
because they thought, as his sister did, that she
had been grossly at fault throughout, that she
had never known how to obtain any influence
over him, and that, having confirmed his faults
by over-leniency to them in the first years of
their marriage, she had now injured him by
severity and severance when both were ill-timed
and misunderstood.

Though often when she was alone the

conscience of Hilda Tilbury smote lier, remembering
the last words which she had
heard John Vernon speak to her, yet in
society she did not hesitate to exculpate her
brother at his wife's cost. She did not scruple
to hint, with many adroit phrases, at incompatibility
of temper, want of sympathy, coldness
of feeling, which excused if they did not justify
Guilders's indifference.

I say nothing ; I blame no one,' she replied
continually to her questioners ; but there
was a tone in the words which implied a more
injurious censure than any direct accusation
would have done.

And when Aubrey, angered and in earnest,
told something of the truth, and took
up the defence of his cousin's wife, society
listened to him with apparent deference because
he was a great person in more ways
than one and a leader of opinion, both social
and political ; but, in his absence, smiled and
said that he had always been her friend,
always been conspicuously attendant on her
from the earliest days of her appearance in
the world. Without the voices of the women
of his House raised on her behalf, he could

do but little in her service ; and they, at their
friendliest, thought of her as the Duchess of
Longleat did, who said one day to him :

If she would come and stay with me, if she
would hold her own at Ladysrood, if she would
lead any natural life so that the world need not
talk, I would support her in every way. But
as long as she buries herself in this ridiculous
isolation, as long as she virtually blames herself
by her acceptance of an utterly invidious
position, I can do nothing for her even if I
wished. You say that Guilder oy leaves her ;
it may be so ; but to all appearance it is she
who leaves him. You say that she has voluntarily
given up her place in his life and all her
rights ; I do not doubt you, but there is certainly
every appearance that it is he who has
refused them to her for some just cause : I say
just because, were it unjust, she would most
certainly protest. I have always been attached
to her ; first because she pleased you, and then
because she pleased me myself; but she has
placed herself in an absurdly false position,
even accepting your account of the causes which
have led to it, and I do not see what any one
can possibly do to sustain her in it.'

I thought you more generous and less conventional,'
said Aubrey, angered deeply, ' and
I think that when I give you my word that her
conduct has not only been blameless but admirable,
you might trust me enough to believe
in my assurance.'

My dear, I do not doubt that you give it
in perfect good faith,' said his sister. ' Who
could doubt your good faith who knows you ?
But you have always been infatuated about
her — pardon me the word — and I confess that
I think your chivalry is doing her, in her present
position, infinitely more harm than good.
If she will come and stay with me I will
receive her. What more can I say ? I have
always been greatly her friend. But so long
as she condemns herself in society's opinion by
living alone in a little cottage where she is only
visible to you, no one can be of any solid
service to her. You say that Evelyn is living
openly with the Duchess Work. It may be so.
But the world does not believe it, because the
Duchess Soria is a woman wise enough always
to please and pamper the world ; and even if
it be ever generally known, every one will
declare that Lady Guilders could have only

one or two courses open to her — either to carry
her case to the tribunals, which is what vulgar
women do, or else to go on her usual routine
as if she saw nothing and heard nothing, which
is what women who are gentlewomen do all
their lives long.'

'It is what she is doing.'

No ; what she is doing is a romantic, headstrong,
idiotic thing with which you have great
sympathy, but with which no one else living will
ever have the slightest patience. She is drawing
the whole world's attention down upon her,
and no woman can ever do that without being
condemned by it. When the season comes,
and she is not in her house in town, not in her
place at Court, not in her position in society,
not in her home of Ladysrood, and every one
knows that she is living alone in the cottage
her father died in, what do you suppose that
society in general will say ? '

If it can ever say the truth by any miracle,
it will say that she is so living because she is
too sensitive and too proud to accept the maintenance
of a man who is unfaithful to her without
secrecy or excuse.'

No ; the world will say nothing of the

sort, for it does not believe in miracles. It
will take the side which is popular ; it always
takes the side which is popular, and you know
it does ; it will exonerate Guilders, because
it has never liked her ; and, being essentially
vulgar, which all society is in our day, it
will utterly refuse to credit that any woman
voluntarily surrenders all the material pleasures
of a great income and a great position.
When all our maidens are brought up only to
think life worth living if they can sell themselves
for those, who will be likely to hear with
patience that Gladys alone of her sex despises
them ? You know, as well as I do, that though
you proclaimed it in Westminster Hall with
sound of trumpets, you would not find any
living creature to believe you.'

I supposed that you would believe me,' said
Aubrey with great anger and some emotion.

Ermyntrude Longleat looked at him with
tenderness and anxiety.

I have not said that I do not, my dearest.
But I know her intimately, and I know that
her education has given her that unworldliness
and unwisdom which always appear either a
crime or a lunacy to the world at large. I

believe her motives to be what you say ; but I
think the act they have resulted in is deplorable.
It must make the breach between her and
Guilders irrevocable. You seem to me to
remember that too little. You forget that after
all we are his relatives, not hers ; and in my
opinion her first obligation was to him, not to
her own pride. You would see this as I see it
if your feelings were not biassed by strong
personal interest in her which blinds you to
common facts. Forgive me, dear, if I have
said too much.'

It is precisely because we are his relatives,
not hers, that common justice 'and common
honour call on us to defend her against him,'
said Aubrey, passing over her latter words.
Guilders requires neither pity nor support ;
he does what he pleases ; he would always do
what he pleased if the whole world were burning.
He leaves his wife much as he would any cocotte.
He offers a different price, it is true. He has
told his lawyers to give her half his income.
But the feeling which governs him is the same
as if he were paying off a woman he wanted
no more. He deems himself quitte par la
bourne's

And she refuses ? '

She refuses. She will live on the little
her father left her. I confess I am amazed
that such a choice in so young a woman does
not move you to admiration.'

I cannot admire what is making the whole
of society talk ill of a person who is related tome.'


You speak as if he were blameless.'

No ; but if every woman in our world
made such an esclandre as she, society would
be at an end.'

She has made none. She has simply withdrawn
herself to the life that she led before
marriage.'

'And, pray, what is that but a public
separation ? '

It is a separation certainly, but not a
public one. It would be utterly ignoble if,
because we are closely connected with him, we
upheld him against a wholly innocent woman.
She may not have acted judiciously, but she
has most certainly acted as only a wholly
innocent woman would act ; and she is as
entirely sacrificed to him as if he had killed
her in the flesh as he has in the spirit.'

His sister listened to him with sorrow and
apprehension.

I hope to heaven you will not be sacrificed
to her in turn ! ' she thought, but she forbore
to say it.

Aubrey was disappointed and angered at
her want of sympathy, and took his leave of
her, failing for the first time in their lives to
influence her by his opinions and his desires.

Knowing the world profoundly as he did,
he divined all that the world was saying of
Gladys, not in his hearing indeed, nor in that
of any member of his family, but nevertheless
saying unsparingly, inevitably, with all its inexhaustible
powers of exaggeration and invention.
Who beside himself and the few who knew her
intimately would believe in the story as she
told it, in the motives as she gave them -^

When her position was a target for the
arrows of slander, how could she escape them ?
Who would believe in the pride and indignation
of a character, still so childlike in its impulses
and so unworldly in its estimates, that it
could avenge its wrongs by stripping itself of
every material advantage and every pleasure
and pomp of fife ?

Her choice was one of those things which
the world will to the day of judgment
utterly refuse to credit, because, breaking all
its canons and ignoring all its estimates, they
afford to it no kind of common ground on which
their motives can be judged.

Aubrey knew that ; and he knew that it
would be as likely a task to persuade geese
hissing on a common of the beauty of a sunrise
as to induce the mass of society to give credence
to the reasons which had led her to
return to the house at Christslea.

It was an exaggerated sentiment, and when
some idea of what she had done was bruited
about in society it was called morbid and mad
by the few who did not go still farther and
say that she had been forced to do it by her
husband on the discovery of her attachment to
his cousin. It was an unwise act ; unwise
with that mingling of sublimity and folly
which characterises most acts of any strong
feeling. She seemed by it to give colour and
ground to the conjectures raised against her ;
it was an error which none but a very young
and a very proud woman would have made.
The money which her father had inherited.

and which had come in due course to her,
Guilders had immediately secured to her in
such a manner that it was her own as absolutely
as if she had never married. Under her
marriage settlements her father had been her
only trustee ; and his sudden death had left her
sole mistress of her actions. Vernon had never
felt the least anxiety as to her safety in her
husband's hands with regard to all material
welfare. Guilders was at all times not only
generous but scrupulous in the observance of
all obligations of that kind, and had never had
the slightest disorder in his personal affairs.
What he had once promised in the little study
at Christslea on this point he had thoroughly
and blamelessly fulfilled. She was, therefore,
so placed now that no one except himself
could have any legal title to interfere in her
actions, and he did not seek to interfere.

It angered him deeply, it oppressed and
humiliated him, to know that his wife was
living on her own resources in a little cottage
ten miles off his own country house. He was
well aware of how the whole world of their
acquaintances would speak of so strange a thing,
and of how many and how strained would be the

constructions placed upon it. But lie did not
endeavour to prevent it. He felt that he had
wronged her too much to have any mortal
right to dictate to her. It seemed to him that
only a cur could exercise the power given him
by the law when he had voluntarily declined
the power given him by the affections. To
attempt to dictate to his wife when he had
abandoned her would have appeared to him
the very basest depth of low breeding.

Her choice embarrassed and pained him ;
it made him feel forsworn in all the promises
which he had given to provide for her material
welfare ; it rendered the memory of John
Yernon doubly reproachful to him. He knew
that it must emphasise and darken his own acts
in the sight of his relatives and his society in
general. To a man like him, who was always
careful to atone for moral unkindness to women
by great care for their material welfare, and
who looked on them as beautiful and delicate
animals which needed luxury and shelter as
racers did, it was intensely distressing to think
that the woman whom he had made the bearer
of his name should be living in a manner
which to him seemed scarcely above penury.

His pride was hurt by it ; both his pride of
place and that higher kind of pride which goes
with all the sentiments of a gentleman. He
never dreamed that the world would blame
her, as it did do, instead of himself, and he
felt that he must appear in its sight a brute
who not only wronged but defrauded his wife.
He was very far from imagining that the capriciousness
of society would transfer all its
blame from him to her. Knowing the world
as he did, such inversion of it never occurred
to him as possible.

But Gladys had never had the favour of her
world. All her courtesies, her generosities, her
many thoughtful and tender-hearted acts had
failed to atone for the unconscious hauteur of
her manner and the tacit rebuke which her
silence was to the amusements around her.
She had had at all times as her enemies the
many women who had loved and had lost
Guilders, and their voices in the earliest days
of her debut had set the current of feeling
against her.

Eumour excused his weaknesses and distorted
her failings. The Duchess Soria was
beloved and followed by the great world. It



had never condemned, it would always be
very slow to condemn, her. It would unquestionably
hesitate to see anything harmful
in any of her friendships ; and it would as
certainly refuse to believe that any woman of
years so youthful as those of Gladys would
voluntarily and innocently retire into the
poverty of a rural and obscure life.

The world has its own reasons for believing
and for disbelieving ; the facts of any case do
not enter into these, nor in any way affect
them. There are those who can do no wrong
in its sight, and these have a charter o£ infallibility
; there are others who can do nothing
to its taste, and these are condemned even
before they act.

Then not a few also were envious of what was
considered her monopoly of such a man as
Aubrey. His great position and reputation
made him the desire and the despair of many ;
and when it was seen how much time he could
find to give to his cousin's young wife, though
for no other dalliance of the sort had he
leisure, there had never been wanting those
who were ready to suggest that his attentions
to Lady Guilders had as their ultimate object

VOL. III. L

something much less innocent than the mere
pleasantness of family regard.

The proud and the delicate disdain the
favour of the world, but they pay heavily
for their disdain. The favour of the world
makes us walk on the sunny side of the
street, gives us a south aspect to our house
of life, sweeps the dust and the mud from the
paths we tread, and when we set sail from any
port sends us favouring winds and smiling
seas. She had never had, that pliability and
popularity which gives a woman a difficult
position the support of a thousand friends who
make common cause with her. That rare
high-breeding and that delicate hauteur which
had marked her actions and her manner in the
world had made her many enemies. There
were few other women in European society
who would not be gratified to think that
proud young head was humbled. He could
hear, as though he were present at them,
the million and one different conversations in
which the fact of her separation from her
husband would be discussed, accounted for,
embroidered on, censured, and ridiculed, all
by turns.

No one wrote to her or came to her
except her one friend.

The world will always let any one fall out
of its favour who chooses to do so. She had
made none of those intimacies with women which
give a woman sympathy and support. She
had been disdainful of the society of her own
sex ; to her mind, used to communion with
such intelligences as her father's and Aubrey's,
feminine conversation and confidences seemed
trivial and frivolous. Men who had admired
her despite her coldness, and would gladly have
atoned to her for her husband's neglect had
she given them the slightest sign of permission,
were afraid to seek her out in her solitude
because of the generally credited report that
Aubrey was primarily responsible for her selection
of it. He was not a man with whom
other men cared to meddle. The very coldness
and indifference to women of his life hitherto
made it generally supposed that his dedication
of himself to his cousin's wife argued some
deep mutual attraction which would not brook
any interference.

It was altogether in vain that he in real
truth saw her seldom, was careful to do nothing

l2

which could give grounds for calumny, and
made his visits to her of brief duration. The
world only saw in such scrupulous care the
secrecy and the consciousness of a concealed
intrigue which his public career made it necessary
to conduct with the most delicate observance
of appearances. ' It is nothing new ;
he was always in love with her,' said men and
women both ; and it seemed to them all as
clear as daylight that it was the origin of
Guilders's abandonment of her. He had
discovered what he did not choose to condone,
no doubt, and so had exiled her to her father's
house in preference to seeking any more public
remedy. He and Aubrey were near relatives.
Their families were proud. Of course the
matter had been arranged thus for the sake
of peace and of the avoidance of the country's
disapprobation ; the attitude of Lady Sunbury
and her ominous silence made them certain
that this was the truth of the whole position.
They blamed Aubrey more than they blamed
Guild troy.

The latter had always been frankly a man
of pleasure, un homme Ager ; he had never
assumed any serious attitude before the nation.

But Aubrey was a politician of distinction and
of immense influence ; that lie should cause any
scandal of the sort seemed an offence against the
country itself ; a kind of immorality which was
almost a treachery to it ' And his cousin's wife,
too ! ' they cried, ' and a woman so young ! '
All the great ladies who had had histories in
their own lives, and all the fashionable femmes
trees who kept their footing with difficulty in
society, were so shocked that they could not
bring themselves to speak of it. And a Scotch
waiting-woman who had taken service with
a Scotch marchioness of very strict religious
opinions sighed and hinted that she had' left
Lady Guilders's service because even at that
time Lord Aubrey had been more intimate in
his cousin's house than her principles had permitted
her to countenance. ' I am a poor
woman who work for my bread, my lady,'
said the good creature, ' and I have live
small children dependent on my earnings ;
but let me suffer what I might, I could never
consent to prosper by taking the wages of
sin.'

Your feelings and your scruples do you
very great honour,' said her employer, who

was of a different political party to that of
which Aubrey was a leader.

And little by little the impression grew into
a certainty with the world that Guilders,
however blamable, had had much cause to
blame others, and to leave the country.

CHAPTER LI.

The delicately good taste of Beatrice Soria
had made it easy for the high society of Europe
to see nothing, if it chose to see nothing, blamable
in the renewed intimacy between her and
Guilders. Theirs was one of those positions,
they are not rare, in which the popularity or
unpopularity of the persons concerned wholly
determines the amount of indulgence or of
censure which they shall receive from others.
Tact goes for much in this, and distinction for
much. The great lady does un blamed what the
woman of yesterday would be stoned for attempting.
There is a sublime nonchalance and a calm
superiority to calumny which repel it utterly,
much more effectually than any mere virtue.
The world but asks from us external observances
; if we do not give these, we are such
fools that we merit that sentence of banishment
from it which is as terrible as the fiat of exile

to Ovid. Beatrice Soria had always been
heedful to give those observances, not from
want of courage, for she had great courage,
but from good breeding. It seemed to her
vulgar to put out your passions in the street,
as the poor hang their soiled linen. It is
enough for you to know your own happiness ;
you do not want the crowd to see the rose
hung above your portal.

She had made it her condition that he
should now leave his wife utterly for her sake,
because it seemed to her that nothing less than
that could atone to her for his abandonment of
herself, could reconcile her to her own lost
dignity, or ensure her against a merely partial
offering of his life such as would have seemed
to her at once an insolence and a humiliation.
I alone, or nothing ! ' she had said, as every
woman says it, although so few have power
to enforce it. It had been the only means
by which she had been able to test the sincerity
of his regret and the loyalty of his
return.

True, she had sacrificed to it an innocent
woman ; but it was only natural that the fulness
of her own triumph had weighed more

with her than any memory of her rival's
misery. Like all great conquerors, she felt
that it was not for her to heed or to pause for
the fallen.

She was in no way a cruel woman, but she
felt the contempt felt by all women who have
great dominion over men for those who cannot
attain equal power over them.

She has loveliness, and youth, and many
rare qualities of both heart and mind, and yet
she can only sigh and suffer because he is
faithless ! ' she had often thought with wondering
disdain of Gladys as she had studied her in
society.

She allowed nothing in their apparent intercourse
Which could give rise to any scandal,
except such as must be inevitably caused by his
continued residence in Italy. She made him
live in his own houses, visit her with precaution,
and never publicly presume upon his
relations to her. It was her wisdom as well
as her good taste which influenced her. She
knew the truth that

Diilci femur : stucco ren ova mur avaro ;

and she did not allow their intimacy to be
degraded into a too facile habit which would

inevitably have become with time careless and
over-sure.

She knew his nature and the temperament
of men too well to allow him that too constant
access to happiness which soon results in
making such happiness insipid and enjoyed.
All the faults which had cost her so dear in
her first association with him she avoided now ;
and even still at times he was so doubtful of
his influence over her, despite all the proofs
he had of it, that he asked himself uneasily
whether his surrender to her had not been
demanded by her rather through pride than
love. It was the uncertainty, the stimulant,
the mortification, which were needful to sustain
at its strength the passion of a man whose
conquests had been as easy as his caprices, and
had been short-lived.

Even now I do not believe that you love
me as you used to do ! ' he said to her more
than once.

She smiled. ' What is love ? ' she said
dreamily. 'Sometimes I think it is the most
absurd and the basest feeling of our lives ; and
sometimes I think it is the only spark of immortality
which we ever have in us.'

It seems to me immortal when I look on
you,' he answered ; and he was sincere in what
he said.

All these months had passed with him in a
happiness which had been more nearly the
ideal happiness of his early dreams than any
he had ever known. His re-conquest of her
glorious physical beauty and the potent and
subtle charm of her intelligence exercised a
sway over him which was deeper and more
enduring than the first passion which she had
excited in him. The amorous spell which
lies in the climate of the country which, had
always been the land of his preference, and the
easy languor of life in it, added to the spell of
her influences upon him. He marvelled however
he could have been mad enough to leave
her ; he wondered how he had passed years
of his existence without her. Either warned
by her previous loss of him, or calmed by the
greatness and completeness of her triumph, or
perchance bringing now into her relations with
him as much of wisdom as she had once
brought of passion, she gave him all the
loveliness of love without its exactions and its
violence. She bent all the varied resources of

her mind, which were infinite, and all the
powers of her seductions, which were endless,
to prove to inn all that he had missed in missing
her, all which no other woman on earth
could give to him ; and she succeeded. She
succeeded, now that it was a matter with her
rather of supremacy, and pride, and triumph,
than of love, where she had failed when it
had been to her a thing of life and of death,
on which all her soul had been cast. Passion
serves women ill : it makes their e3'es blind,
their steps rash, their acts unwise ; and unselfishness
in love serves them still worse.
Desire of dominion, on the contrary, is their
most safe and subtle servant, placing illimitable
power in their hands, and leaving their sight
clear to use it in their own interest as they will.
Beatrice Soria had been a better woman
when he had thought her a worse one, a
tenderer woman when he had thought her a
more violent one ; her heart still beat for him,
but no more with the rash, ardent, delirious
warmth of earlier days. Dominant over her
impulses of revived passion was a colder and
more egotistic intent to make him and to keep
him once more wholly hers.



In the autumn of the year, Guilders
was for a while in Venice, nominally living
at his own palazzo there, whilst she was
at one of the villas on the Brentaa, which
she had inherited as part of her mother's
dower ; one of those marvels of art and architecture
which stand amidst the gladiolus-filled
marshes and the green mulberry-shaded pastures
of the Veneto, so little known, so rarely
visited, but as much memorials of the greatness
and luxury of the Venetian patricians as are
the streets of the city herself. In early autumn,
when the rose and white pomea is in flower
in all the hedges, and the last aftermath is
mown in the meadows, and the barges comedown
the river laden with purple and yellow
grapes, and the marvellous sunsets burn over
the wide-spreading waters, and the little grey
owls flit under the poplar shadows, these
villas on the Brentaa form as lovely a retreat as
the world can offer ; and the gaiety and the
pageantry of Goldoni and of Carpaccio seem
to be renewed, and the lovely ladies and the
gay gallants of Eosalba and of Longhi seem
to live again in them.

For the most part they are, unhappily.

abandoned to neglect, decay, and silence ; butin
hers the animation, the brilliancy, and the
courtliness which her society brought thither
were worthy of the traditions of Catalina Corner,
the adored and adorable, who once had held
her court there.

Guilders was little in the city, much at
the villa, and the days were long and light
and sensuous and soft as the music of Gretry,
which had used to echo over those waters
and down those marble colonnades in the
days of Madame Cutting.

One of the most potent seductions of
Beatrice Soria lay in the forms of life with
which she surrounded herself. The atmosphere
in which a woman lives stimulates, or kills,
love for her as much as does her person or her
mind. Even one who is not beautiful derives a
certain reflection of beauty from beautiful surroundings
; and where she has ever about her
pleasure, grace, and gaiety, she will have in
them strong auxiliaries to charm and retain
those whom she desires to please. The varied
and brilliant existence which she created by
her magnificent modes of living, and her unusual
wit, made her houses wholly unlike any other.



You alone know how to live ! ' some one said
to her once ; and she thought sadly, ' Yes ; I
know how to live ; it is much, no doubt. But
how to exorcise that spirit of dissatisfaction
which dulls all sooner or later would be more
how — how? It has perplexed and baffled
every voluptuary and every artist since the
world began ! ' She interrogated in vain the
shades of the great pleasure seekers and the
glad lovers who had passed down those marble
staircases and under those canopies of trellised
vine before her, in the days that were dead,

Sue rive d'Adria bella.

Men had always been her playthings ; she
had done whatever she had chosen with them ;
but she always felt for them that indolent,
indulgent, and yet at times impatient derision
with which a woman of high intelligence and
profound passions is apt to regard both her
lovers and her friends.

And in her, now, besides this, was a vague,
slight, very vague, very slight, sense of disappointment.


Was it because she failed to feel those intensities
of emotion which she had felt before .^

Was it because no one summer is like another ?
Was it because the mind and nature change
with time, and what is delightful and exquisite
in one season cannot wholly content them in
another ? Or was it because the passions are
such subtle, self-willed, and mysterious agents
of our being that they resist the appeal to them
to build in last year's nests ? She could not
tell ; all the penetration and intuition of her
intelligence and experience did not suffice to
explain to her why this vague, faint sense of
disappointment followed on the renewal of her
romance.

It was no fault of his.

He was the most devoted and the most
tender of lovers. It was perhaps that her
memory and her imagination had expected
more than it was humanly possible for any love
to give from their reunion ; or perhaps she
unconsciously missed the stimulant of that
desire to regain his affections which had moved
all her strongest feelings since his marriage.
She had nothing more left to wish for ; in the
full, rich, and pampered life of Beatrice Soria
that fact was almost a loss in itself. She felt
for him tenderly and with warmth indeed ;

but it was not the same feeling as had subjugated
all her soul and her senses in the first
days of its ascendency.

'Perhaps I grow old, and so indifferent,'
she thought; but then she looked in her
mirror and smiled, and knew that it was not
that.

Was it then the inevitable reaction of expectations
too great for finite human passions
to fulfil them ? Was it that the lost music had
seemed so sweet in its remembrance that no
strain of it, heard now, could ever seem to
equal it in melody ? ' I loved him better when
he was not mine,' she thought sometimes with
the saddest consciousness which can ever visit
love. Alas I it is not an unfrequent visitant.

Coming down the Grand Canal one early
forenoon, when the pressure of gondolas there
was greater than usual owing to some Church
festival, his own was jostled between two others
and had to pause in its outward voyage while
the rival rowers exchanged the usual maledictions
with uplifted oars and infinite variety of
florid oaths. He heard his own name spoken
by one of two men who were sketching in
gondola tied to one of the piles before a

VOL. Ill, M

water-gate. They were making drawings of
all that is left of the Falter palace, and of its
little garden court and wooden wicket; they
were painters well known in the artistic world
of London, and they recognised him as he
passed.

Where is his wife, do you know ? ' said one
of them. ' She was a lovely creature. You
remember Leighton's portrait of her three years

ago

She is always living alone in a little house
on the sea-coast, I believe,' replied the other.

Separated, then ? '

Yes, virtually. Lord Aubrey consoles her,
I believe. Some people say that he always did.'

Aubrey ? The Minister ? '

The man who was Minister in the last
Administration, yes. There is only one. He
is this man's cousin.'

The relationship gave him opportunities, I
suppose ? '

The other artist laughed ; and they both
went on with their drawing of the little acacia-tree
by the green gate of the court of the
Falter.

Guilders felt a strange emotion as his

gondola, extricated, passed on its way towards
the Lido. There was no truth, he knew, in this
foolish gossiping ; and yet it wounded, offended,
and irritated him.

As the vessel passed outward on its way
towards the lagoon he, lying back on his black
cushions, could not shake off the rough unpleasant
impression of the words which he had
overheard. Was this how they were talking
of him in England? Such a possibility had
never come before his thoughts before.

He had actually and morally set his wife as
free as though his death had released her from
him. He did not believe that Aubrey had as
yet become her lover, but he suddenly realised
that it was a possibility which was more than
possible. It did not find him indifferent. It
touched that sensitive nerve in him which men
call honour for want of a clearer name for it,
though it is in truth rather personal pride and
love of dignity than honour.

It suddenly awakened the image of Gladys
from that dim forgotten past into which it had
retreated, and restored her to a place, not in his
heart indeed, but in his memories and in his
susceptibilities.

M 2

She had seemed to him scarcely more thana
shade as she had last appeared before him in
the ghastly and pallid hues of the dreamlike
chambers of his Neapolitan palace, an avenging
shape arisen to reproach him and to curse him ;
but now she became more than this ; he realised
that she was a living woman of breathing life
and motion, who had it in her power, if she
chose, to return him the harm that he had done
to her by a vengeance which would touch him
to the quick and humble him in the eyes of all
men.

And why should she not do it ? If she did,
could he honestly blame her ?

He knew he could not.

Why should he demand from a young and
lonely woman a force of self-control of which
his own strength and manhood had been incapable?
The consciousness oppressed and
haunted him with a vague dread. He remembered
the warning Aubrey had given him, Nil
'Helena peccant. Had his cousin meant to give
him in it a personal and not a general advertisement
of impending possible ill ? Had Aubrey,
with his habitual candour, meant to say to him,
What you do not care to guard I shall consider

that I am at liberty to approach as I may
choose.' He knew the loyalty and frankness of
his cousin's character ; it would, he knew, be
very Hke him that on the eve of a prohibited
attachment he should frankly endeavour to warn
and place on his defence the man whose honour
would be involved.

It was a beautiful afternoon as his boatmen
took him, a few hours later, up the Brentaa
water, through the sparkling sunshine. The
leaves were yellow on the poplars, and the
trees looked made of gold. The wide green
meadows were bathed in light. The .thatch-roofs
of the cottages looked like the brown
nests of big birds amongst the ever-flowering
foliage. Huge barges and flat-bottomed boats,
with painted sails leaning motionless on the
lazy air, passed him laden with grapes and
gourds, amber pears and rosy-cheeked apples.
The far hills were sweet and fair with all the
colours of the opal and the amethyst in them.
But the beauty of the scene was lost on him.

He was thinking ever of the ISlil Helena
peccant.

When he reached the water-stairs of the
villa, with steps of marble shelving down into

the bulrushes and yellowing water-lily leaves,
the day had grown dark. It was the hour of
reunion in the great central hall, with columns
and sculptures of Sansovino and a domed ceiling,
where frescoes of Tiepolo's were lost in the
immense height of the vault. Its owner was
accustomed to gather her guests about her
there before dinner in the autumn evenings,
when the great olive and oak logs burning
on the enormous hearth under its porphyry
caryatides had a welcome warmth as the cold
vapours of night succeeded to the warm sunshine
of the passed day.

He felt out of mood for that gay circle ;
for once, when he had changed his clothes and
joined it, the brilliant gathering, where the
men had the wit of Carlo Gozzi and the
women the beauty of Teresa Yenier, jarred
upon him in its brilliancy and mirth.

You have taken a chill on the water,' someone
said to him ; he answered absently, ' No —
yes — perhaps.'

Much later in the evening Beatrice Soria
herself noticed his preoccupation.

You have heard something which displeases
you of your wife,' she mused, for her quick

intuitions let her read the souls of men, even in
their secretes, like open books.

She had taken means to inform herself of
the manner in which Gladys had chosen to
live, though her name had never once been
mentioned between them.

To Beatrice Soria she was a woman beaten,
forsaken, indifferent, insignificant ; she pitied her
and never spoke of her. But, she mused, it was
so like a man because he had deserted her to
think of her, even to think of her regretfully I
Men were such children ; such weak, wayward,
fearful children, as she had said once on the
banks of the Thames to Aubrey : always wanting
that which they have not, always regretting
their own actions when it is too late to efface
them, always putting the blame upon fate
which is due to their own folly, caprice, or
instability !

The excuse is always ' The woman tempted
me and I did eat ' in the wilderness of the
world as in the Garden of Eden.

You are ill at ease and out of spirits,' she
said as she passed him. ' Do not look so ;
people will say that I tyrannise over you ;
nothing is more absurd than that.'

I cannot tutor my looks,' he answered
with impatience. ' Perhaps I am not well. I
do not know.'

They were unobserved for a moment, others
were dancing. He looked at her with an imploring
gaze.

You do love me ? ' he added. ' Tell me
again.'

What a child you are ! ' she said with a
smile. ' What is the use of saying what is
proved ? '

But is it proved ? '

What can you possibly mean ? '

I mean, in this gorgeous life of yours,
flattered, amused, and adored as you are, what
room is there for any great or exclusive
feeling ? '

It seems to me, my friend, that it is very
late for that doubt to come to you ? '

Perhaps I am jealous. You have so many
who love you, and you are too indulgent with
them.'

Do not become Othello because we are in
the Yeneto. It will not suit you in any way.
Your love has always been galanterie'

Not always.'

'Yes, always, I think, at heart.'

'That is cruelly unjust! What greater

evidence '

Coldness and anger came into her eyes.
Do not remind me of your sacrifices. It
is very bad taste.'

Sacrifices ! Who spoke of sacrifices ? I
simply meant, what more could any man do
than I have done .^ '

I do not know, my dear, that it was so
very much that you did. You were tired of your
English life ; what we are tired of, it does not
cost much to renounce, and some people ^o say
that it was rather your wife who renounced
you, than you your wife.'
That is utterly untrue ! '
'It may be,' said Beatrice Soria with a
gesture of entire indifference. ' I suppose you
quarrelled. We will not quarrel, my dear;
it is the sorriest and the meanest grave that love
can ever finds

She passed her hand lightly over his hair as
she spoke, with something which was compassionate
and mournful in the lingering caress.

Now go and join those dancers and look
happy. I cannot have my people think I make

you otherwise than happy. In. truth, you will
never be happy very long, for you are life's
spoilt child.'

He kissed with passionate fervour the whiteness
of her arm as it was near his lips.

You have made me as happy as a god this
whole long year ! '

Then it should seem a very short year to
you ! ' she said with her slow sweet smile, and
left him to join her guests.

His eyes followed her with worship. Alone
for her had he ever approached that strength
and constancy of passion which is the love of
the poets. It was foreign to his temperament,
and ill akin to all his inconstant habits, but it
had been illumined in him for her. A vague
and painful sense perpetually haunted him that
though he again possessed her he did not again
possess her soul, that though he had renewed
his position towards her, he was powerless to
regain over her that vital ascendency which he
had once owned and had wantonly thrown
away ; and this doubt increased the influence
she had upon him by the perpetual consciousness
which he felt of uncertainty and inequality.

When he had had power to make her

absolute wretchedness, to be her arbiter of fate,
to cause her tortures by a day's absence, by a
month's silence, by a slighting word or by a
careless homage taken elsewhere, he had been
indifferent to his power and often also too
indifferent to her pain. But now their positions
were reversed ; he did not feel for an
instant that he was vitally necessary to her ;
he did feel that she was life and death to him
and mistress in the uttermost sense of all his
fate.

CHAPTEE LII.

A FEW days later Guilders sent to one of
his men of business to come to Venice. There
was an intricate question pending in England
affecting some leases on one of his estates
which afforded reason enough to summon his
land-agent to a personal conference. When
the matter had been discussed in its financial
and legal aspects, he inquired as carelessly ashe
could :

And what of Lady Guilders ? Is she
well ? Is she always living in the house her
father had at Christslea ? '

His agent answered in the affirmative, feeling
on his own part considerable embarrassment,
for this separation into which the law did
not enter, this unexplained and unregulated
severance, was little understood by any of
his people.

And does she keep herself wholly withdrawn



from the world ? ' he added. ' Does she
see no one ? I regret it if it is so ; she is too
young for such solitude.'

She sees no one,' said the man of business,
more and more in doubt as to what
answers he should make. 'At least Lord
Aubrey comes sometimes, as no doubt your
lordship knows.'

Guilders's face flushed. ' Yes, I have
asked him to do so,' he said quickly.

It was a falsehood, but it was an instinctive
one to save her from suspicion.

He inquired no more.

The agent returned home with a doubt
which had not before visited him that Lady
Guilders was not so wholly innocent as she
looked.

After all,' thought the man, ' she keeps
him out of England, so it is she who must be
to blame, there can be no doubt of that.'

Guilders had told Aubrey himself that it
was a pity that he had not married her, and he
had thought so honestly. They would have
been perfectly sympathetic one to another. Yet
the knowledge that these sympathies which were
between them had now full leisure and free

scope to be developed and indulged in anyway
they chose, in the absolute loneliness of
Christslea, was detestable to him. After all, he
thought, he could not refuse her the liberty
which he had himself taken. It would have
seemed to him mean and unworthy to enjoy a
freedom for himself which he did not accord to
her. He had the large morality, or immorality,
of a man of the world ; if she could console
herself in any way for the disorder and desolation
which he had brought into her life, he
would be a brute to grudge it to her. So he
reasoned.

He had put her out of his own existence ;
he could not complain if she made a separate
life for herself. And yet the idea of his cousin
alone with her in those little quiet rooms of
Christslea was disagreeable to him She had
said that she would always respect the honour
of his name, but those were only words, though
they might have been words sincerely meant
when they were spoken. He knew that the
heart of any woman once seriously involved
will force her to abandon her strongest principles
as the warmth of summer forces the
willow and the sycamore to drop their springtime

catkins. And he thought of her more
than he had ever done before.

She had grown very vague to him. His
memory had but seldom reverted to her. He
possessed the happy faculty of being able to
dismiss from his mind what he did not wish
to think of ; and the coldness, the harshness,
and the scorn with which she had spoken to
him in their last interview had hardened his
heart utterly against her. But since the words
of his man of business, few and trite though
they were, the manner of her life came before
him more painfully, more positively. The little
house at Christslea and the recollection of John
Yernon came to his recollection with painful
clearness. He remembered the first day that
he had gone thither, and been welcomed with
such frank cordiality and simplicity. He had
repaid the welcome ill ; he knew it, and, being
by nature generous, the sense of his own lack
of generosity oppressed him with a sense of
error which all the moralists on earth would
never have succeeded in bringing home to him.

As he walked in the glad sunshine by the
banks of the Brentaa, he thought of Christslea ashe
knew that it must be then ; bleak, cold, grey,

cheerless, with dull angry waters, and liigli
winds blowing through black, leafless trees, and
lonely moorlands shrouded in icy mists. Winter
on that coast had always been to him an unendurable
and hateful thing ; and yet she was
living through it by deliberate choice, unconditioned,
unfriended, and alone. Nay — not
always alone. She had Aubrey. Aubrey was
a man of scrupulous honour he knew ; but he
also knew that there are hours in all the lives of
those who love in which resistance and strength
sleep like the tired Samson in the noon siesta.
He knew, too, that his own conduct had given
him no title to complain of whatever advantage
any other man might take of his absence.

Aubrey was there, sometimes at least, in such
familiar intercourse as solitude in the country
perforce creates. The idea was not welcome
to him. There had been occasionally in him
a vague impatience of the high esteem in
which she held his cousin, and the comparison
which she had openly drawn more than once
between their manner of life. Aubrey had
been indifferent to women, but women had
never been indifferent to him ; his person, his
intellect, and his fame were all such as might

well captivate a poetic and serious woman
such as Gladys was, especially if united to a
romantic and chivalrous devotion, aided by the
auxiliaries of solitude and misfortune.

Guilders, who was so profoundly versed in
the contradictions and intricacies of the feminine
temperament, knew that there is no moment at
which it is so susceptible to attachment as that
in which it is bruised and bleeding from the
offences and the wounds of desertion.

Well, if it were so, he told himself, he had
no right to object to it, or to censure her ; he
had no possible title to ask her to lead a joyless,
passionless existence in the full flower of her
youth and her beauty. He had taken his own
freedom, his own happiness as he conceived it
to be ; he had no right whatsoever to deny
any possible compensation to her. And yet his
pride was hurt at the possibility, though his
affections were wholly indifferent to it.

The subject occupied his thoughts when he
was alone to an extent which surprised himself;
and rendered him even at times preoccupied
when in society or even when alone with the
woman he loved.

The letters of his sister had been so in-vol.

111. ^

cessant and so monotonous in their perpetual
invective and reproach that he had wholly
ceased to reply to them, and of late had long
let them lie unopened. Her reproaches had
always incensed him ; and now that he felt they
had much reason for their outcry they were
trebly irritating and distasteful to him.

But when his man of business had left him
he remembered them, and broke the seals of
two or three of the later ones, and glanced
rapidly over their contents, passing over their
oft-repeated conjurations and condemnations
in search for the recurrence of his cousin's
name. He found it more than once. In the
last letter, which had a date of two months
past, the writer wrote :

The whole world is, I think, in accord in
attributing your wife's retreat to the influence of
your cousin. It may be right, it may be wrong,
but it is certain that it thinks that he, much
more than you, has had power to determine
her selection. I give no opinion myself. Of
course I always saw that he was more than
commonly attached to her, but he is a man of
honour, and he would not throw his name to
the four winds of earth as you throw yours for

the sake of any woman. Still, he is mortal, and
the position he occupies is at once very
dangerous and very insidious in its appeal to
his sympathies. He is the only person whom
she ever sees, and the only friend who is admitted
to advise her. His sister has repeatedly
argued with him to induce him to see this as
the world sees it; but always in vain. He
appears to consider that he is the natural
heir to the duties which you have declined
to fulfil ; to what extent do you choose him
to be so? Whatever may happen, you cannot
complain that it happens to you unreservedly.'


He read the lines with great wrath and intolerant
impatience ; then tore the letter up and
with it those of similar strain which had preceded
it. She was always a mischief-maker ; seeing
what did not exist, straining at gnats, weaving
ropes of moonshine, setting friend against friend,
and sowing the seeds of disunion under the
plausible pretext, and perhaps in the honest
persuasion, that she was pleasing God and
serving man. He had always known her to belike
that ever since he had been of age enough
to be at all observant of what she did ; she was

K 2

a good woman — yes — like thousands and tens
of thousands of good women who have all the
virtues in their own persons, but have not in
their temperaments one chord of sympathy,
one fibre of indulgence, one touch of that erring
human nature which makes the world akin,
one single impulse of that sweet and tender
kindness which soothes and stills and comforts
maladies which it cannot cure.

A perfectly good woman — yes — and as
utterly incapable of doing any real good by her
influence as though she were the vilest of her
sex ! How many of them there are on earth,
and how many men have lived to curse them
as they never curse the sinners! He threw
the fragments of her letters with hatred into the
waters of the canal beneath his window. He
knew the irrepressible pleasure in her own
accuracy of prediction, in the vindication of
her own forebodings by the present facts, which
had been in her, all unknown to her, while
she had penned all the invectives and lamentations
which had preceded and followed her
introduction of Aubrey's name. Some hatred
he felt against himself, whose actions had given
up the fair name of Gladys to the malevolent

speculation of the world and to the gratified
jealousies of his sister.

He remembered her as he had seen her first
in her father's garden in the late autumn afternoon,
with the dog's head leaning against her
knee and the red foliage of the early autumn
touching her hair. What a base return he had
given for that sincere and simple welcome ! She
had spoiled his life innocently, and he had spoiled
hers criminally. Absolve himself as he would,
his conscience perpetually returned to convict
him of his offence. He forgot the intervening
years, and only thought of her as John Vernon's
daughter ; the fair and innocent child of the
days before her marriage. His feelings were
capricious and ephemeral, but they rarely lacked
generosity, and he felt that he to her had been
ungenerous ; that he had not allowed enough
for her youth and her inexperience, that he
had brought against her ignorance all the unequal
forces of worldly knowledge and trained
intelligence, and that he had received her life
into his hand in the mere unformed clay of
girlhood only to throw it in pieces among the
potsherds of calumny when it had become the
full amphora of womanhood. Again and again

this image of her recurred to him with increasing
reproach. He felt an uneasy and restless wish
to return to his own country for a moment, and
to see for himself what truth there was in all
these stories of Aubrey's visits to her. He did
not doubt the facts ; but he doubted, or, rather,
he refused to believe, the construction put on
them by others. Aubrey had always been her
friend, he certainly would not have ceased to
be so ; but from friendship to love there were
distances which he did not credit that his
cousin would ever pass. The honour which
fenced in the wives of other men had never
seemed to Guilders a very high or impassable
fence ; but the honour which surrounded his
own seemed to him sacred and high as heaven.
Yet he thought often, and with ever-increasing
irritation, of that stormy and sorrowful isolation
of Christslea in the winter solstice which was
again so near.

His anger deepened against her with his
remorse. She had rejected all his offers, she
had withdrawn herself from his home, she had
brought the condemnation and observation of
the world upon him by the extravagance and
strangeness of her actions. So he thought and

SO he reasoned to himself; but all his anger
could not extinguish his consciousness of having
drawn her into a position which scarcely any
woman of her years could possibly issue from
unharmed and slandered.

He had thought her cold, irresponsive, unsympathetic
; but lie had been always sensible
of the fineness and purity of many qualities of
her character, and he knew that they were
those to which he could alone now look for self-control
and self-sacrifice strong enough to bear
her unharmed through such an ordeal of isolation
and abandonment.

If I could speak to her,' he thought more
than once ; but that was forbidden him by ten
thousand reasons. His word had been passed
to the woman whom he loved ; his desires
had been granted him on a condition which
was the more imperious because based solely
on his honour ; he knew that if he again broke
his word to her, even though in the very smallest
and slightest thing, he would fall lower than
the lowest in her sight, and would be degraded
beyond words in his own for ever. He had
received the gifts of her life on certain terms
which were a millionfold more binding on him

because merely left to Ms own good faith. His
knowledge of Beatrice Soria told him that the
meanest galley-slave at work on the quays of
Naples would seem to her infinitely manlier
and worthier than he if in the merest trifle he
transgressed the stipulation she had made.

She had left him wholly free to accept or
refuse her condition, but she had understood,
and had had the right to understand, that the
condition, if accepted, was inviolate. He did
not reproach her for it ; she could have asked
no less, looking both to the past and to the
future. Nor could he have said that he regretted
it ; for he was still happy, although one fear and
one remorse assailed him ; the fear that though
he had again recovered his position towards
her, he had never recovered his influence over
her ; and the remorse that he had been disloyal
to the promises he had given to John Vernon.

In all his faults and follies he had been a
man of delicate honour, as the world construes
the conventional honour it demands of a gentleman
; he had never given the world the title to
deride or to disdain him ; he had always been
careful to keep his name out of the mud of
public discussion and conjecture ; and he was

morbidly sensitive to the fact that for the first
time in the history of his race a shadow, if nota
stain, had been cast upon his name : one which
might deepen and darken as the years passed
away, and most probably would do so, whilst
he would be powerless to efface it and would
have but himself to thank for it. In the
conflict of feelings which had agitated him
in his last interview with his wife, he had not
reflected on the innumerable consequences inevitable
on his action. He had only seen, on
the one side, a woman whom he passionately
regretted and loved, and on the other a woman
who chilled, fretted, offended, and alienated
him. He had chosen between them on a
natural impulse, with scarce a moment's hesitation
; and he had cast hardly a thought to the
many difficulties and penalties which would
follow on his choice.

All his life long things had gone well with
him. The most serious sorrow of it had been
his repentance for his rupture with Beatrice
Soria, and she had been entirely right when she
had told him that all the phases of his love had
been rather gallantry than passion. Deep and
painful emotions were novel to him and hate-fill.

But they now forced their way into his
thoughts, and would not be gainsaid.

He knew well the estimates of men of the
world ; their large tolerance of many, and their
intolerance of some few, things. He knew that
amongst these few must be his own action in
driving so young and blameless a woman as his
wife into her present position. He knew that
his contemporaries, however elastic in judgment,
must be now his severest critics, not for
what he had done as for how he had done it.
He had put himself outside the pale of those
easy indulgences which the world willingly
accords so long as no violence is offered to
its codes of convention.

He was proud, and his pride was hurt at
the mere thought of how all his friends and
acquaintances were speaking of him whenever
they remembered him at all ; and they would
so remember because of the prominence of
Aubrey's name. With little right or justice
in this anger, he grew each day more deeply
angered with his cousin. He persuaded himself
that it must have been Aubrey's influence
which had decided so young a woman as Gladys
to lead so strange and wretched a life.

'I left her everything she could want or
wish,' he thought in his self-justification. 'She
was free to live in the world at her pleasure ;
I had taken care that no blame should rest
on her, and I had given her the half of all I
possessed ; she might have been happy, quite
happy, in her own way if she had chosen ; it
was not I who exiled her to a cottage by a
lonely weather-beaten shore, and bade her
exist on the pittance that came to her from
her father.'

Why could she not have continued to enjoy
all those material consolations and compensations
with which he had so liberally surrounded
her? If she had done that, his conscience
would have been at rest, and the world would
have seen in their separation nothing but a
mutual and excusable agreement to lead their
lives apart.

It must have been Aubrey, he reasoned,
who had sustained her in her headstrong and
extravagant resolution ; it was just such a
choice as would commend itself to him, austere,
romantic, and unworldly.

After a few weeks of irresolution and
of many agitated and conflicting impulses,

he said abruptly and with much embarrassment
to the Duchess Soria :

It is absolutely necessary that I should goto
England. Would you allow and not misconstrue
it ? '

She looked at him some moments before
she replied :

My dear, I am not your keeper. And I
suppose you have honour.'

He felt himself colour under the profound
gaze of her deep eyes. He kissed her hand
with emotion.

I thank you,' he said simply ; he knew
that he had once given her every cause to
mistrust him for ever. Her confidence in him
seemed very noble, and appealed to him as no
expressions of doubt or of fear could have
done.

I am utterly unworthy of her ! ' he thought
bitterly. How often his suspicions had wronged
her in days that were gone by ; how little fitted
he had been to be the supreme passion of such
a woman's life !

Several days passed by ; she asked him
neither why he angered nor when he would go.
That reserve in one to whom he had given

every title to doubt his word in their past
relations seemed to him very magnanimous.

He loved her, he thought, more than he had
ever loved her, but all the strength of his
admiration could not drive out from him the
restless, haunting remembrance of what might
be then being said and being done in England.

It was now well-nigh mid winter ; there,
dreary, misty, cold, with drifting snows ; here
gay, luminous, brilliant, with gorgeous sunsets
and buoyant wind tossed seas.

I shall be away but a very little while,' he
said to her with hesitation.

Go as you will,' she answered him. ' He
felt that these reins let fall thus upon his neck
did in truth and honour hold him more closely
than all chains.

Ah I if only you had always been as kind
and as generous,' he murmured, thinking of
those other days when her impetuous demands
and her violent exactions had chafed his soul
into revolt.

She smiled with a little sadness.

Alas, alas ! ' she thought, ' men should not
quarrel as they do with our jealousies and
importunities ; when we cease to feel them life

has taken the tenderest fibre out of our hearts.
I am never jealous of him now ; but sometimes
I wish to Heaven that it were only possible
that I could be ! It is those tempests of folly
which give birth to the sweetest of our joys.'

She would have given half that she possessed
could she only once more have felt all
those intense and exquisite pains which are the
procreation of the richest joys, could only his
absence have tortured her, his presence intoxicated
her, as it had once done.

Was it mere caprice or wantonness of fate
that now, when he was so utterly her own in
all ways, she had so little gladness in her
empire ?

Was it indifference, or pride, or really
magnanimity which made her leave him unquestioned
to go whither he would ?

Nay,' she thought, and rightly. ' He could
not now be faithless to his promise if he would.
The handless and footless god that smote
Glaucus would smite him for me. He would
be the lowest of the low.'

And she let him go, and asked him nothing.


Alas ! ' she thought again. ' It is when

men most curse us that they should bless us
most. All that immense love which raises
them into the deities of our lives only wearies
them, satiates them, and makes them cold
and fretful ; and yet, if only they knew,
how much better we are when we can
still feel it ! — what poor, innocent, fond fools,
though so burdensome to them ! And when it
is gone, it is gone for ever, and something
which was best in us is gone too, and we live
for our senses, or for our triumphs, or for our
intelligences, but we live for a great love no
more ! But we have learned wisdom, and wit
comes to us where adoration has died, an our
lovers find us calmer, and they deem their loss
their gain— fools, fools both we and they ! '

CHAPTER LIII.

He went without halt across Europe to his
own country ; the weather was cold and dark,
the seas were stormy, the winds piercingly cold ;
after the radiance and the softness of the land
he had left, it seemed to him like entering some
dreary Gehenna of tormented and icy air. He
travelled straightway to Ladysrood, and went
thither unannounced. He had old and faithful
servants who kept all others of the household
in obedience and subjection ; but the great
house had a desolate air in its utter abandonment.
There was little light, little warmth, all
the furniture of the rooms was shrouded in its
linen coverings, and only in the central hall
was there a large fire burning. His step
sounded hollow on floors from which their
zealous thrift had removed the carpets, and the
hastily-lit lamps struggled feebly against the
general gloom.

I have always told you to keep the house
as perfectly ready as though you expected meat
any moment,' he said with anger.

The people were afraid to reply that after
so many months of absence his arrival had
seemed to them the most unlikely of all possible
chances.

The silence, the coldness, and the loneliness
of his home chilled him to the bone. It
seemed an emblem of that solitude to which
Gladys was condemned in her youth. The
night was very cold, and one of the wild
winter storms of the south-west country rased
without until morning. He slept very little,
and rose from his bed unrefreshed. He regretted
that he had come there. He sighed
for the evergreen orange and magnolia groves,
the purpling violets, the unfrozen fountains,
the dancing sun-rays of the glad gardens of the
Soria Palace. Here was the winter of the
earth and the winter of the soul. He cursed
the morbid restlessness, the uneasy discontent,
which had drawn him from his paradise.

Now that he was here, what more could he
know than he knew ? He could not seek his
wife ; the woman whom he loved had trusted

VOL. III. o

him ; he had too much good faith and sentiment
of honour left in him not to be true to an
unwritten bond.

The storm had subsided with dawn, but
the day was dull and heavy, the skies were
obscured, and the air was charged with vapour.
The sense of immense weariness and depression,
which had in other years always come upon him
in England in winter, returned upon him a thou •
sand-fold now. He passed the forenoon in his
library in intercourse with his men of business
and stewards, in the examination of those
questions of leasehold and freehold, of forest
rights and moor rights, of rents and investments,
which had been the ostensible reason of
his momentary return home. It was well for
him that those who served him had truly his
interest at heart, for he heeded very little the
explanations which they gave him, and signed
many papers without knowing very clearly
why he did so. He was thinking, as he
apparently attended to the prolix arguments
of his visitants, of the day when, in that
chamber, he had written the letter which had
broken off his relations with Beatrice Soria.
He was overwhelmed with the greatness of her

pardon when he thought of that unutterable
insult to the proudest of all living women.
Then his memories wandered away from her
to that other day when he had held the Horas
open for a young girl to read, and watched
her first blush rise like sunrise over her fair
face. It was only ^nq, years before, and in
those five years what suffering he had caused
to both these women ; and yet how well one at
the least still loved him, if the other — what of
the other? — even if she had been ever too
passionless to care for him, yet how much she
had lost through him !

The tedious grey day wore away slowly ;
most of its hours occupied with prosaic details
and dull discussions of ways and means, of law
and equity, of forestry and finance, and all the
various matters of importance which grow out
of the management of great estates and of a
great fortune. It was dusk when his people
left him ; he remained in the library beside
the hearth, where there was not even a dog to
welcome him.

Where is Kenneth ? ' he asked of a servant
who came in at that moment to light the
chandeliers. Kenneth was a colles which had

o 2

been a chief favourite with both himself and
Gladys.

The man hesitated with some embarrassment
as to how he should reply.

Where are Kenneth and the other house-dogs
? ' repeated his master impatiently. The
servant answered timidly that her ladyship had
sent for them to Christslea a year ago.

Ah, of course ; they were hers,' Guilder oy
replied quickly, regretful of his question.

She had been quite within her right to take
the dogs, nor did he grudge her their innocent
companionship ; but the kind brown eyes of
Kenneth and his comrades, if they had been
there to look at him then, would have seemed
to break the spell of this horrible loneliness, to
ease the burden of these painful memories
which weighed on him.

The evening was yet more gloomy than the
day. He paced to and fro the suite of the
Queen Anne apartments wearily and drearily.
They were all restored to their fullest comfort,
and had all that light and warmth and the
fragrance of hothouse flowers could bring to
them, but to him they were immeasurably,
unconscionably melancholy.

All his past life came before him in those
solitary hours. He recalled all his childish
ideals, his boyish admirations of great men,
his vague dreams as a youth of some greatness
which he would achieve, some added lustre
which he would bring to his name and race.
Where had all these gone ? In what had all
these ended ? In the lassitude and languor
of satiety, in the nerveless indifference of a
polished pessimist, in the evaporated fumes of
innumerable pleasures quickly tasted and exhausted.


At least I have enjoyed,' he thought.
Could Aubrey say as much ? '

But though his philosophy consoled, his
conscience did not satisfy, him. It was not
for mere self-indulgence that his fathers had
alone lived ; it was not by mere self-abandonment
that his country had been made what it
once had been.

Great men had, indeed, in all ages been
lovers of pleasure, but pleasure had been their
pastime, not their sole pursuit. He walked to
and fro the length of the now warm and illuminated
rooms, and his surveys of his past
brought him more dissatisfaction than contentment.

To men he knew that he seemed but
an idler; to women, perhaps, he seemed a
traitor.

The vision of his wife alone in that lonely
little house, amongst the dense sea-fogs and the
bare black orchards, haunted him with pain ;
and the memory of the woman whom he loved
as he had left her in the splendour of her
beauty, and of the golden evening sunlight
pouring through her painted chamber, haunted
him with that irresistible and unresisted power
which she always possessed over him. In the
depression of his solitary musings he seemed
in his own sight unworthy of either of them,
and wholly undeserving of their constancy
or their regret.

Before he slept he sent for the old housekeeper
of Ladysrood. She had been with his
mother on her death-bed, and had nursed and
played with him as a child. He could ask of
her what he could not bring himself to ask of
any of the men.

Tell me, Margaret,' he said to her as soon
as she stood before him in the warm red
drawing-room, where John Vernon had bade
his daughter hive for honour if she could not

live for happiness — ' tell me, do you ever see
my wife ? '

The old woman was silent for awhile ; the
tears started to her eyes.

Alas, my dear lord, that ever you should
have to ask me that ! ' she murmured.

Never mind why I ask you ; answer me.
Do you often see her or ever see her ? '

I have seen her very rarely, my lord, and
never to speak to ; it was in the open air, and
my lady shunned me.'

How does she look ? '

She looks older, but she looks well, my
lord. The air is very fine and strong at
Chris tslea.'

Guilders felt a sense of mortification, for
which he hated himself.

She looks well, do you say ? '

Not ill, my lord, but much older.*

You must hear of her often from the
servants or the villagers ? '

There is little to hear, my lord.'

You mean that she leads such a retired,
such a secluded life ? '

That is so, my lord. It is the same life
as her father led ; it suited him, no doubt,

but it cannot suit a childless woman of her
years.'

Guilders sighed impatiently.

It was her own choice.'

The housekeeper was silent ; she respected
him too much to contradict him, and she respected
truth too well to agree with him.

She has all the dogs, they say .^ ' he asked.

Yes, my lord ; she was ever very fond of
the tykes.'

And how does she spend her time ? '

Reading, they say, my lord, when she is
indoors ; and always out when the weather
holds, and ofttimes even when it is very bad.'

And. who does she see ? '

No one, I believe, my lord.'

Not my sister .^ '

Her ladyship has never been nigh her.'

He hesitated a moment, then said :

But she receives visits from my cousin
Aubrey, I am sure ? '

Well, my lord, he is the only one of the
family who has stood by her.'

I am grateful to him.'

Nevertheless his face flushed with an emotion
which was not one of pleasure.

Is he often there ? '

Often, my lord, one may say, for one who
is ever toiling for the country as he is, and has
so little time left to himself.'

It is very good of him. You may go,
Margaret. Good-night.'

The old woman curtsied, and withdrew ;
but as she drew near the door she took courage
and came a few steps back towards him. ' My
dear lord, if I may make so bold, my lady is
very young to be left in that lonely life. Maybe
she chose it, but some say she was drove to it.
She may have her faults, but she has more
virtues, and — and — she lost her two children,
my lord. Will you not go and see her now
you are here, if only for sake of that one
memory, my lord .^ '

Guilders's eyes grew dim.

No, no, I cannot do that,' he said hastily
and sternly. ' But you are a good woman to
lu-ge it, Margaret. You do not offend me.
Good-night.'

Good-night to you, my lord.'

The door closed on her, and he was alone
with his own thoughts, which were painful
companions.

He had an intense wish to see Gladys, a
wish stronger than his anger against her. But
all that remained to him of loyalty to a woman
who had trusted him to be faithful to her forbade
him such double duplicity. The words
Go, you have honour,' were ever in his remembrance.
Any interview with his wife, any
effort even to seek one, any single word which
could even distantly foreshadow the faintest
reconciliation with her, were forbidden to him ;
he had plainly and for ever renounced any
possibility of such when he had accepted the
conditions on which the woman he loved had
again become his.

To have accepted them only to break them,
to have had the fulness of her faith only to
cheat and evade it as a man can ever do if he
wills, would have seemed to him something so
foul that he would not have borne his life under
the sense of degradation which such an act of
betrayal would have left on him. His honour
might rooted in dishonour stand, but it was
at least loyal to the one who had trusted to it.
Yet a great desire was upon him to see his wife ;
the remembrance of her was upon him as he
had known her in the early days of Christslea,

and that remembrance softened his heart towards
her and outweighed the heavy and bitter
memories of their last interview in Naples. The
night passed with him again sleeplessly and
painfully.

The winds were high and swept round the
stately and solid house with gusts of fury ; the
stillness between them was filled with the sound
of rushing rains. The day broke, with no rain
falling, but with low and heavy clouds. At
noon he rode out in its gloom, and through his
woods towards the moors ; rode fast against the
watery cold air, over the shaken turf, and thinking
ever as he went of the time he had ridden
thus to seek John Vernon, on a mere idle caprice
which waywardness and imagination had raised
into a fancied passion for one fleeting hour.
The sky was low, the sea was still, the earth
was silent as he went ; the dull atmosphere and
the melancholy solitude oppressed him as with
some sensation of physical ill. Through the
mist which hung everywhere over the water
and the land the few distant sails on the sea,
the few forms passing on the moors of men or
cattle, looked unsubstantial and unreal. To him,
whose life was always passed in movement orin

pleasure, in the gratification either of the
senses or of the intelligence, the winter stillness
and loneliness of the country and the shore had
a feeling of death in them.

His horse, tired with the wet and heavy
ground, went slowly, and he did not urge it
to more speed ; he rode on, lost in his own
thoughts, taking, almost without knowing it,
the road to the cottage of Christslea. He had
the fullest resolve not to see his wife, nor to
allow himself to be seen by her ; yet with an
unconscious and irresistible impulsion he took
his way towards the place where she dwelt,
until from the level turf of the cliffs above the
house he looked down on its thatched roof, its
peaked gables, its thick environment of tangled
branches. There was not a sound coming from
it ; a little smoke hung on the vaporous air ; a
few pigeons flew low under its eaves ; a holly-tree
stood glowing with scarlet berries tall and
straight against the sky. To him, come from
the vast palaces and marble terraces and sun-bathed
gardens of the south, it looked like almost
a hovel, with its humble lowliness and modest
colouring so like the brown earth and the grey
boughs which surrounded it. It hurt his pride

to think that his wife should live there in
penury and obscurity. She bore his name, she
was the mistress of his houses, she had a right to
his riches and his possessions of all kinds, and
she dwelt here in less comfort and less stateliness
than the wife of his steward enjoyed I

And all his world knew it, and any one of
his friends who chose could come and see the
poorness and lowliness of her lot !

He dismounted and walked to the edge of
the cliff and let his horse stray as it would,
blown and heated, cropping the short wet turf
to its own hurt.

A vague desire to enter the house and ask
for her and see her face to face was in him.
But he would have been perjured and degraded
had he yielded to it. Far away in the golden
light of the Neapolitan day was a woman who
had said to him — ' You have honour.'

He remembered her, and to her at least
was faithful.

On the tableland of the cliff near at hand
was the little barn-like, rustic church of this
small sea-parish, and around it were those obscure
graves of which John Vernon's was one,
conspicuous amongst the low-lying headstones

by the fair column of white marble she and he
had raised there to his memory with one line
graven on it in the language he best loved :

Mori est felicia, antequam mortem innocent.

He looked at the white pillar looming
faintly through the sea-fog, and had he been a
woman he could have wept.

I was false to him, I was false to him ! ' he
thought ; and his heart ached with the futile
pang of a regret which cannot reach or atone to
the dead.

He had too often pardoned to himself his
own transgressions, too often too carelessly
excused to himself errors and follies which he
thought lightly of because they were welcome
and easy ; but the sense of his own disloyalty
he could not palliate or smooth away with
sophistry ; he deemed it a dishonour and he
hated it.

For the first time in all his years he was
guilty in his own sight. He had promised
what he had not fulfilled ; he had been untrue
to a man who could no more call his actions to
account. As he stood looking down on the
russet roof and the tangled wood in the shadowy

misty winter's morning, he saw the figure of a
woman leave the porch and pass under the
branches outwards towards the shore. He
could not see her face from his position so far
above her, but he could see by her figure, by
her bearing, by her step, that the housekeeper
had said truly — she was in perfect health and
strength.

She walked quickly and firmly ; the dogs
leaping on her and running on before her.
She wore the long black cloak of sables in
which he had seen her last in Naples. For
some minutes he lost her from view under the
trees ; then she appeared again upon the strip
of sandy shore, where the waves were rolling
up with low angry murmur as though exhausted
by the fury of the past night. Then she turned
from the sea, and mounted the cliff path leading
to the churchyard. He perceived that
she had a basket of evergreens and snowdrops
in her hand ; she was coming no doubt on her
daily errand of visiting her father's grave. The
mist was lighter now, and, though some way off
her, he saw her plainly as she mounted the
steep path cut in the granite of the cliff, so
familiar to her from her childhood.

What a life ! what a life ! ' he thought,
what a wretched life if she have no consolations
! '

A violent impulse moved him to demand
from her if there were any, if the gossip of the
world was true which traced to Aubrey's influence
her choice of this seclusion ; he wished
to tell her that he would be the last to blame
her if it were so, and that here, within sight of
her father's grave, he would ask her pardon
and give her his ; so at least there might be
peace between them.

And yet, as he watched her from the distance
crossing the grass of the cliffs with that elastic
step which he had so often admired, and
which all women had envied her, a more
sombre and more ignoble feeling moved him,
a restless jealousy of past possession, a sense
that the dignity of his name was in her
hands and that she could play with it as
she chose, and that he had lost the right to
blame her, whatever she might select to do
with it.

He watched her pass across the tableland
towards the graveyard ; she did not look towards
him ; she went straight on to the wicket of the

burial-place, opened it, and passed within ; the
growth of rose-thorn and privet and holly
within its low walls of rubble hid her entirely
from him.

He hesitated a moment ; a great, almost an
ungovernable, wish arose in him to go there
and to say to her by her father's grave all the
truths which had been so imperfectly uttered
in the haste and bitterness of their last interview.


But a thousand miles away a woman trusted
him !

To approach his wife, were it even only to
say to her an eternal farewell, would be to bea
traitor to his pledged word.

He had often been the slave of his passions,
the fool of his fancy, but he had always been
the servant of his honour.

One ill is not mended by another he knew ;
one defalcation is not filled up by another;
because he had been untrue to the dead man
lying there was no reason or excuse that he
should be untrue to the living woman who
loved him.

He had voluntarily renounced his right to
seek or to give explanations from and to his

VOL. III. p

wife. It was one of those privileges of intimacy
which he had of his own accord consented to
abjure for ever.

He looked once more at the dusky foliage
of the churchyard with the slender white
column rising into the grey air ; and with a
sigh he drew his horse's bridle towards him,
and led the beast down the precipitous and
broken path which turned away from Christslea.

CHAPTEE LIV.

With evening he had left his own house,
having learned nothing more than he had
known before, but carrying with him in his soul
the thorns of a restless disquietude and of an
impotent regret.

He reached London in the morning and
went straight to Balfrons House. Parliament
had met and Aubrey was in town. There was
a heavy rain falling, and the air was full of ice
and sleet. The streets at that early hour were
deserted. The city seemed a vast, colourless,
smoking city of the dead.

Aubrey had risen with the day after an hour
or two's rest after a prolonged debate. He
was in his study, walking up and down the room
and dictating to his secretaries before he broke
his fast. The yellow and sickly air poured
through the chamber dark with bookshelves
and bronzes and tables laden and littered with
documents of all kinds.

p2

When he saw his cousin enter he paused
in the dictation of his letters, and stood still,
without any word of gesture or greeting.

Can I see you alone for a moment ? ' asked
Guilders as he entered.

Aubrey motioned to the young men to
leave them ; they passed into the large library
beyond and closed the door.

Aubrey still spoke no word. He stood
erect, the habitual stoop in his great height
changed to a stateliness that was almost stiffness.
He never held out his hand or said any syllable
of greeting or of inquiry, his features were cold
and stern.

Guilders heeded neither his attitude nor
his expression.

Twelve months and more had passed by
since they had met at Venice and had parted
with unuttered but mutual hostility and offence.
The knowledge which he had of Aubrey's
certain scorn and condemnation of him gave to
him an hauteur and an imperious impatience
which seemed to his cousin mere arrogance,
unbecoming, insolent, and out of place.

Guilders was very pale, and his eyes
looked sleepless, but he had the manner and

the courage of a man who arraigns another for
wrong done to him, and is very far from all
confession of error in himself.

I am about to put to you a question which
no man answers,' he said rapidly and without
preface of explanation of his appearance there.
At least no man answers in the affirmative.
But whether affirmative or denial be in
your case the truth, I expect the truth from
you, having regard to the blood relationship
between us and the position in which we have
always stood to one another.'

Aubrey looked him full in the eyes.

What is your question .^ ' he asked ih his
coldest voice ; a passing expression of ineffable
disdain came over his features as he spoke.

It is a very simple one,' said Guilders.
Are you, as the world says, my wife's
lover ? '

Aubrey's eyes met his fully.

I certainly need not answer,' he replied
with a grave rebuke and scorn in his voice
and in his gaze. ' You have lost all title to put
such a question.'

I have not lost the right, since she bears
my name.'

You have lost it morally, not legally.
You could not be so ungenerous as to refuse a
liberty which you take.'

Guilders's face flushed hotly.

If you prevaricate I shall consider prevarication
admission.'

Aubrey smiled slightly ; a very cold, contemptuous
smile.

It is not my habit to prevaricate. I will
answer your question, though I shall refuse to
admit your title to put it to me. I am not
your wife's lover, and if you had the slightest
knowledge of my character you would not
come to me on such an errand.'

Guilders was silent. He did not doubt
the truth of the speaker ; the whole country
would have taken Aubrey's word unwitnessed
against that of all other men ; but he was dissatisfied
.

If you deny that you are her lover,' he
said after long silence, ' you cannot deny that
you have for her a feeling which is far beyond
friendship, that you visit her in her solitude,
that your assiduous attentions to her are matter
of notoriety.'

Am I bound to account to you for feelings

unuttered to any human ear ? Am I bound
to respect for you ties which you have yourself
strained to rupture ? By what title do you
come here? You have forsaken your wife
utterly. You have told me that she was
wearisome, unsympathetic, indifferent to you.
What is it to you what I feel for her, or what I
do not feel ? I deny your right to attempt to
penetrate my feelings, or to arraign my acts.'

He spoke with a force which was almost
violence, and with a scorn which penetrated
the very innermost fibres of his hearer's nerves.

In every syllable of your answer you confess
what you feel ! ' he said with equal violence.
I may have no title to command my wife's
affections ; I never possessed them ; but she is
the holder of my name, and my name is dear
to me, and no man shall play with it without
being compelled to atone to me.'

Aubrey looked at him with unspeakable
disdain. ' What would you do ? What could
you do ? A man who has abandoned his wife
cannot challenge either her enemies or her
lovers ; he is nothing in her life. If I were to
her what you suppose, what could you say tome
in common decency or justice .^ I should

but have filled up the place you left vacant. I
should but have soothed the wounds which you
caused. You would have no shadow of title to
arraign me for it. Even the world itself would
prefer my errors to yours, would admit that
you had but the payment you merited.'

I care neither what the world would say
nor what you would think,' said Guild troy,
now white with passion. ' I care for the
honour of my name, and I should not pause
either for your relationship to me or for the
admirable lucidity of your reasonings if I believed
that you had done me any wrong which
would make me absurd and degraded before
other men.'

Aubrey smiled ; the same slight, contemptuous,
fleeting smile, which stung Guilders
like the stroke of a whip, stung him in his
pride, his sensitiveness, and his conscience all
at once.

You would make a scandal .? ' said Aubrey
coldly. ' You would do unwisely. Men whose
names are before the world should keep them
clean and hold them high. We might agree to
kill each other en cachette but if we called the
public in to witness our quarrel we should be

worse than fools. We are not playing a melodrama
of elective affinities ; we are living out
our lives before a world which hates us, and is
every hour of its day gaping at us to find a
chink in our harness or a stain on our shields.
You must gratify it if you wilL I shall not
aid you. I am not the lover of your wife. I
have never spoken any word to her that you
would not have been free to hear. I have
stood by her, certainly, under the unmerited
neglect and obloquy which have fallen on her
through you. I should so stand by any innocent
woman whose friend I once had been.
And so much I admit to you not for myron
sake or yours, nor yet because I in any way
admit your rights or am moved by your
menaces, but because such a declaration is due
to her — since it is the truth, so help me God.'

There was a tone in the last solemn words
which stilled the fury and awed the soul of his
hearer. Guilders doubted no more.

I believe you,' he said briefly. * The whole
nation would believe your bare word. I wish
to Heaven,' he added with emotion, ' that she
had been yours, not mine ; we should all have
been far happier than we are.'

Such regrets are useless,' said Aubrey.
The greatest burden of man's life has been
created by man, and it is called the holy state
of marriage. But — this I must say to you too
if you imagine that she cares for me you are
in great error. She cares for you alone. You
may bruise her heart as you choose ; your
name is still the only one written in it.'

• Do not tell me so,' said Guilders hastily
and with pain. ' It can make no difference
now.'

I have told you so because it is so.'

That may be. It can make no difference
in me.'

Aubrey was silent.

You intend always to live as you are
living now ? '

I must in honour.'

And you leave her virtually widowed at
twenty-two years of age, and you exact her
fidelity ! '

I exact nothing. And I beg to apologise
to you for the time which I have wasted for
you in a demand which, as I have expressed
my belief, was founded on unjust suspicions.'

He lingered a moment, waiting for some expression

in return from Aubrey, some farewell,
some acknowledgment of his last words. But
Aubrey remained standing where he was and
said nothing. He did not offer his hand'; his
features were very cold, his expression almost
harsh. He allowed his cousin to leave him
without any word or gesture of valediction.

Guilders bowed to him in silence and
quitted the room.

If I did not belong to my family and my
country, I should kill him before he reaches the
street,' thought Aubrey when the door closed,
as the fire ran through his veins of that old
barbaric passion which sleeps in the blood of
all men of high courage and strong feeling.

CHAPTEE LV.

In the following week, he stood on the cliff
above Christslea, having responded to a wistful
message asking for his return there.

Why have you sent for me ? ' he asked her.

Why do you never come to me unless I
send?'

He looked away from her.

Why,' she persisted, ' you used to come
and see me so very often.'

Aubrey hesitated.

The world is suspicious, my dear,' he said
at last ; ' and you are a very young, and,
though you always seem to forget it, a beautiful
woman. I do not wish them to say evil
things of you.'

She coloured violently.

They would never say of us '

I fear they do, dear.'

She was silent ; her face was very flushed
and pained.

How evil the world is ! ' she murmured.
But let them say what they will. It does not
matter. We know '

It matters for you.'

He moved uneasily ; his position towards
her became every day of his life more embarrassing
to him, more strained, more difficult
The very frankness and perfectness of her
confidence in him was an added embarrassment
the more.

It seemed brutal to rob her of her only
solace, to suggest misconstruction to so much
innocence and courage, to place between himself
and her the constraint which such a warning
must of necessity create.

She sat on the edge of the cliff, unconsciously
plucking the little flowerets of the
wild thyme which grew so thickly there. He
stood beside her and looked down on her.

Gladys,' he said abruptly, ' my cousin came
to me a few days ago.'

Her face lost its warmth and grew very
cold.

I heard that he had been a night at Lady's
she answered.

Yes. He did not approach you ? '

Can you think that he would dare ? '

You forget, he has still the right.'

He has no moral right ; no right on earth
that I acknowledge.'

You are too harsh, my dear. His rights
always exist ; and, whether you will hear it or
not, I must say to you that I believe his feelings
for you are not wholly dead, as you
think.'

She cast the gathered thyme upon the grass,
and rose to her feet.

I care nothing what they are or are not.
His life is dead to mine.'

Is that how your father would have had
you speak ? '

My father was a good and wise man, but
he knew nothing of a woman's heart.'

Perhaps he knew so much that he believed
its forgiveness inexhaustible and its patience
divine — as they should be.'

She was silent. She stood looking out to
the grey wind-blown sea. Her eyes were cold
and had no relenting in them, her face had
grown pale.

Some women may be made like that,' she
said at last. ' I am not. He has made his life

without me. I have made mine without him.
That is all. Why talk of it ? '

How have you made your life ? Child
that you are, do you mean that you can live all
your lonely years like this — always like this,
until old age comes to you ? '

Women live so in convents. Why not I ? '
Women in convents live unnatural lives, as
from mistaken motives you are doing. Every
life without the natural indulgence of its sentiments
and affections is restricted, barren, and
unblessed.'

She was again silent ; her eyes watching
afar off a fishing boat tossing in the deep trough
of the waves.

Why do you say these things to me ? ' she
asked at last. ' Surely, when one is left alone,
there are more dignity and decency in passive
acquiescence in one's fate than in any noisy
revolt against it ? '

Yes ; but if he returned to you ? Would
your pride stand in the way of reconciliation
? '

Has he told you to ask me that ? '
No ; he said nothing which could even
suggest it. But it was clear to me that he

regretted his own actions, and regret is always
near repentance.'

He will never feel repentance, nor even
any very real regret. He may feel inconvenience,
irritation, anxiety for the world's opinion
caprice, fatigue, satiety — nothing more.'

I begin to think that you have never loved
him, Gladys.'

Perhaps not.'

He looked at her, troubled and perplexed
by her tone ; seeing no way into her real meaning,
wondering at her strength in keeping the
secret of her own feelings so closely in such
long solitude.

There is no love,' he said almost harshly,
where there is any consideration of self. There
may be desire, pride, pique, egotism ; but there
is no love. I have told you so many times. I
should wish your own heart to tell it you without
me.'

Are all feeling, all sacrifice, all pain, then,
to be on one side alone ? '

A great love never asks that question, my
dear. It gives all it has to give, unweighed.'

Something in his voice as he spoke, something
in his expression as he looked down on

her, went to her heart with a sudden sense of
what his feeling was for her. She had never
thought of it before ; she had taken all his
faithful and tender friendship as created rather
by his position towards Guilders than by any
personal devotion to herself. She had been
engrossed in that absorbing selfishness which
great suffering creates, and she had passed
over unnoticed a thousand things which might
have told her what he felt had not her whole
thoughts and her whole emotions been given to
the tragedy of her own fate. Now some vague
perception of the truth came to her, although
he had so loyally concealed it. Some sudden
sense of all which he had done for her, all
which he wasted on her, all which he restrained
and denied for her sake, came upon her with a
mute, ineffable reproach. How selfish she had
been, and how ungenerous, before this immense
and unuttered devotion ! She dropped her
head upon her hands and burst into a passion
of tears.

'Forgive me, forgive me I ' she murmured,
weeping, not knowing what she said.

'I have nothing to forgive, dear,' he said,
surprised and touched to the quick. ' I want

VOL. III. Q

you to forgive, because I know that, unless you
do so, no peace will ever come to you.'

He waited a moment, but she made no reply.

I must go now,' he said, ' or I shall
not be able to be in London to-night. Will
you think of what I have said? The day will
come when you will have occasion to think of
it. And, my dear, do not deem me unkind if
I cease my visits to you. They are ill-judged
by the world, and they displease my cousin.
Of course, if you ever need me greatly I will
come ; but not habitually, familiarly, as I have
come of late.'

Her face changed, and her brows contracted
almost sullenly.

You will sacrifice me to him ! '

No. But I will not sacrifice you to the
evil construction of either your husband or the
world.'

I thought you had more courage ! '

Aubrey smiled sadly.

It is not courage which is wanting to me,
my child. Perhaps some day you will understand
my motives, if you do not now. Meantime,
do not misjudge me nor doubt my sincere
regard for all your truest interests.'

The words seemed very cold to her and
conventional.

She was very young still, and she longed
for tenderness, for indulgence, for an affection
which should let her lean her aching life upon
it and there find rest.

When he went from her in the dusky,
windy, cloudy day the sense of an immense loss
came over her ; the solitude of her life closed
in on her ; and she saw night descend with
terror of its sleepless hours.

q2

CHAPTEE LVI.

On that same day Guilders saw once more the
smiling sunshine, the green gardens and orange
woods, the stately marble walls of the Soria
Palace. It was late in the afternoon when he
reached Naples. A glorious sunset was burning
in the west. Innumerable sails covered the sea.
The zenith was a deep translucent blue, the air
clear and buoyant, with gaiety and healing in
its breezes. The streets were mirthful with the
sports of early Carnival, and the shouts and
songs and clang of brazen music came softened
to the ear as he sat once more in the little
cabinet of the Albans and looked towards the
bay through the marble arches of the loggia
beyond.

Whether from pride, magnanimity, or forbearance
(he knew not which) Beatrice Soria
had asked him no questions.

You have soon returned,' she said to him

simply, when lie first came to her ; and she had
made no after allusion to his absence or its
causes. She knew well that if he had broken
his word to her he would not have so returned,
nay, would never have dared to meet her eyes
again.

He longed to tell her all that he had felt ;
the sweetest charm of love is the power and
privilege of laying bare the soul in all its inconsistencies
and follies ; but this pleasure was
refused to him by his own action in the past.
Where he had been once faithless to her before,
delicacy made it impossible for him to say one
word which should seem to hint at any regret
or any change for or in his present faith to her.
That first disloyalty was always there as a
spectre between them. It would be impossible
to show her all the conflicting emotions which
had swayed him by turns during his brief
visit to England. He would have been glad
to do so ; he felt something of the pathetic
human instinct to confide in some one beloved
the doubts and the self-reproaches which
tormented him, and so in a manner be free
of their burden of perplexity. But this he
dared not do. Under the circumstances of

their late reunion, any such confidence must
inevitably have appeared to be either a hint
of desired freeborn or a confession of futile
regret; either would be an insult to her.
He felt that even any shadow which came over
his face, any momentary mood of abstracted
thought or of visible depression, must seem
a tacit admission that he regretted the price
which he had paid for the past year of happiness
beside her. He knew that he had once
seemed to her the forsworn, cowardly, and
treacherous slave of his own caprices ; he dared
risk nothing which could by any kind of possibility
place him in such a light to her again.
What could such a woman as she was, think of
him if she ever felt that, even in the full blessing
and glory of her love, he could fret at and
begrudge the cost which it had been to him?
He respected the stronger courage of her nature,
he even respected her for the scorn which now
and then flashed out from her upon himself,
and he felt both reverence and gratitude for
the faithful and fervent passion which she had
spent and, in so much wasted, upon his life.
Nothing can be more untrue than that in
such relations as theirs reverence is impossible ;

reverence is excited by character, not by situation,
and he had learned to appreciate her nature
as he had never done in earlier days. The very
completeness and sincerity of the proof which
she had demanded from him had showed a force
in her before which he felt himself wavering,
weak almost worthless, of a single thought of
hers.

He did his uttermost to conceal the depression
which weighed upon him ; the distress with
which he was haunted when he thought of
that little house in the gloom and silence of the
lone sea-shore ; the anger and impatient shame
with which the recollections of Aubrey's words
of scorn moved him whenever they recurred to
him.

He knew, he felt, that one living man despised
him ; and that man the one whom of all
others he most esteemed himself, and most
admired. He had always been irritably conscious
of the greatness of Aubrey's life as contrasted
with the frivolity and self-indulgence of
his own. It was an unendurable humiliation
to him to be conscious that he had made it
possible for his cousin to address to him those
scathing words which pursued him in memory

as though they were the very voices of pursuing
ghosts.

And although he had received and had
accepted his cousin's statement of his relations
to his wife, and did honestly in his soul believe
them, yet it made him restless and unhappy
to know that their intimacy, however harmless,
was familiar and unwitnessed, that even,
though only her friend, Aubrey was still her
only friend and her most loyal servant. It
offended, it wounded, it tormented him ; and
all his efforts could not conceal from the penetration
of Beatrice Soria that the lassitude and
dissatisfaction which she had observed in him
when in her villa on the Brentaa in the past
autumn had increased greatly since his brief
absence, and were rendered even the more
visible by the endeavours which he made to
hide them under the over-affectation of carelessness
or the over-protestation of devotion.
She had the intuition and the penetration
which are alone possible to a woman who is
too learned in love to be the servant of it, and
too sure of her power ever to be vain with petty
vanities ; she saw in him the reflection of that
vague disappointment which had haunted her

in her meditations amongst the autmnn beauty
of her gardens in the Yeneto ; she realised that
he too, like herself, though later than she, had
failed to find the same wonder-flower which
they had found and gathered together in other
years. She was generous ; she was proud to
arrogance, and she knew human character with
a knowledge that made her at once disdainful
and impatient of it. She had had her own way ;
she had ruled him as she chose ; she had exacted
and enjoyed her just vengeance to the uttermost
iota ; what more could the future bring her ?
And besides this likewise there was in her the
generous scorn of a patrician temper to hold by
obligation what has fled already in will, to enforce
a bond from which the soul had already
gone. There was much arrogance in her, and
there had been some cruelty, but there was
more magnanimity than there was either.

She said nothing to him, but she watched him
in the weeks which followed on his return ; and
she read his mind as though it had been opened
before her like a book. She felt with a pang
that what she read there mattered but little to
her ; a year before his emotions had been her
world, now it seemed of small account that

they should wander from her. What joy would
there be m slowly-dying illusion, in slowly-fading
rapture, in slowly-chilling passion ? What
triumph would there be in watching the sure, if
gradual, change of ecstasy into monotony, of
gratitude into tedium, of fervour into habit?
She knew the truth of the Greek counsel,
Break off the laurel-bough whilst it is yet
green, and burn it Wait not until it withers.'
She was an Epicurean, and carried into the
passions of her life at once the fires of the
senses and the coldness of philosophy. When
she had loved him first she had been all dre ;
now her wisdom was greater than her love,
now she could bear to put her heart under
the spectrum and watch its pulses change from
fast to slow.

The months of Carnival follies passed, and
the spring equinox blew open the states of
the narcissi and called up the golden sceptres
of the asphodel in all the southern pastures.
One night they strolled together along the
white terrace which overhung the sea, as they
had done a thousand times in the year just
passed and in the other years of a still more
gracious time. The full moon was shining, the

murmur of the waves was audible, the air was
heavy with the scent of lemon flowers from the
gardens beyond. It was Italy, luminous, fragrant,
amorous ; set amidst it all he sighed.
The sigh was unconscious, but it was eloquent.
She paused and looked at him. A slight smile
came on her mouth, half of pity, half of scorn.

If you are not happy,' she said slowly,
remember — I am not your gaoler. Say so,
and go.'

He started violently, ashamed and bewildered,
and ignorant of what he had betrayed.

What do you mean ? ' he asked. ' Happy !
You have given me a happiness of which one
needs to be god, not man, to be worthy ! '

Yes, you have been happy,' she said
thoughtfully. ' It is something. Well, go whilst
you still are grateful for it.'

Go ? go where ? '

Go to your wife.'

Even by the moonlight she saw how white
his face grew as he heard her ; he was paralysed
with fear and wonder.

Why do you insult me ? ' he muttered ;
you have my word.'

Yes ; I have had your word,' she said

with disdain, but with no anger. ' What is a
corpse worth when its soul has fled ? '

You cannot think '

I think you are like all men. Once I
thought that you were unlike them. But that
is long ago.'

He winced under the words as though she
had struck him.

Is it dead in you ? ' he cried with the
passion of despair. ' Can no love live ? '

I know not,' she said wearily. ' Perhaps
not ; who can tell ? '

I can tell. I love you for ever.'

In a sense you do, yes.'

She sat down on one of the marble chairs
of the terrace; the seat was shaped like a
throne, and was covered with a lion's skin.
She looked like some great queen come to pass
judgment, the silvery tissues and silvery fur of
her dress gleamed in the moonbeams, the
diamonds which were round her throat shone,
her eyes were full of light and heavy with
tears.

My dear, do not let us part in any anger,'
she said calmly. ' Anger is so base in those
who have been lovers. Once I was angry

often, and to fury even. I would that that
time were here still in all its madness, in all its
abasement. But it is dead. You have been
happier than I in our reunion. I was haunted
by the past, which you forgot. I wanted
what I could not have — my youth. You
had belonged to my youth, and my mind
had outgrown you, though I knew it not.
Nay, I mean nothing unkind. We change in
body and mind. No passion, once broken,
will ever bear renewal.'

She sighed heavily ; he was silent ; he was
deeply and cruelly humiliated, and yet he
knew that she had spoken the truth of herself,
if not of him.

Go to your wife,' she repeated. ' I am
sure that you have seen her, though I am equally
sure that you have not spoken with her,
for you would never have dared to return tome
if you had. You do not care for her ; you
will never care for her. But she embodies to
you peace of mind, social repute, and personal
dignity. You attach weight to the opinion of
the world. You are wretched if men speak ill
of you. With that character neither man nor
woman should ever brave the world. They

should leave that temerity to those who have
both a great passion and a great courage. They
alone can do it and never repent. You repent
— now — every hour of your life.'

You are cruelly unjust ! Never once have
I said or thought or felt anything but the very
deepest gratitude to you.'

In a sense, no. I am not denying that you
love me still. I say that, having the temperament
you possess, you cannot be content without the
world's esteem. It wearies you to earn it, but
without it you are uneasy and ashamed.'

You would make me out the very poorest
of fools ! '

No ; your feeling is not ignoble, for it
comes rather from faithfulness to your race and
your traditions than from any minor timidity or
selfishness. But, let it spring from what it may,
it is in you. You are not a man who can long
forget self. You are incapable of a life-long
devotion.'

If I live you will see how mercilessly
unjust you are.'

No ; you would promise what you could
not fulfil. Every year, every day our relations
would grow more familiar to you, and so less

powerful to hold or satisfy you. Every year,
every day you would remember with more
bitterness all that you have given up in sacrificing
your good name and your position in
your own country. Your country is intolerable
to you ; you hate its weather, its society, its
politics, its hypocrisies, and its climate ; but yet,
having given it up, you sigh for it. As it is
with your country, so is it with your wife.
You do not care for her — you will never care
for her. But she represents something which
you have lost by your own act, and so you fret
for her.'

Where he stood beside her in the moonlight
his face flushed painfully.

It is not that. It is not what you think,'
he said with agitation. ' You know well I have
no feeling for her of that sort. But I know
that she lives in suffering, possibly even in
temptation, and I cannot forget that when I
married her I swore to her father that I would
make her happiness as far as a man can make
a woman's. Of course those promises are made
and forgotten in all marriages, people cannot
keep them even if they would ; but he was a
man whom I honoured, and he is dead, and it

seems vile to have been false to him. That is
all the regret that I feel, that I have felt. I do
not think it is a feeling which, if yon could
wholly understand it, you would despise.'

*I do not despise it. But I do not see
why it comes to you so late.'

He was silent.

He knew well enough that yonder on the
sea the night that he had been bidden by her
to make and abide by his choice, he had resolved
to choose the sacrifice of his happiness
rather than of his word, but that the anger
which his wife's unbidden presence had aroused
in him, and the impetuosity of his emotions, had
hurried him into the choice which had appeared
to his companion to be wholly voluntary and
dispassionately meditated. But he could not
say this to her ; and, after all, he knew that
his conscience had not spoken to him until in
the streets of Venice he had heard the jest
about his cousin's visit to Christslea.

But I adore you, I adore you ! I could
not bear my life without you ! ' he cried, ashe
kissed the silvery furs of her mantle.

Oh yes, you will bear it,' she said with a
smile which was half sad, half scornful. ' You

love me as much as you can love, but it is not
very profoundly. And I am quite sure that
you will love many after me. The only
woman you will never love is your wife. Of
that I am satisfied. But you will go back to
her. You will place yourself right in the
world's eyes. I dare say you will have many
children, like the virtuous prince in the fairy-tales,
and you will never see me in the world
without a sigh. It will be your contribution to
the past, and you will imagine that you are
wretched because you have lost me ; it will
even serve you, perhaps, as a rose to interest
other women ! '

He rose to his feet, stung and wounded
beyond words.

There was germ enough of truth in the
cruel words to hurt him more profoundly than
any accusation wholly unjust, and yet there
was injustice enough in them to rouse an
agony of indignation in his heart.

Have I deserved this from you ? ' he said
with hot tears standing in his eyes. ' Have I
ever given you right or cause to say such things
of me ? Once, indeed, I sinned against you, I
offended you. I have done my best to atone

VOL. III. R

for that. Which of us is it now who first
speaks of severance and of disilhision ? Which
of us is it now who finds our relations insufficient
and monotonous? You are unjust
to me — cruelly, barbarously unjust. I have
told you the truth of my own feelings as I
analyse and find them. If my candour wrongs
me in your sight I cannot help it. If a man
and a woman, after years of intimacy, cannot
speak the truth to one another, who can?
The remorse that I feel for my own failure to
pledges which I voluntarily took has nothing
to do with my devotion to you. I am neither
a great man nor a good one, but such as I am
I have given you all my life. I ask nothing of
you or of fate but to be allowed to so give it
ever.'

The tears which had dimmed his eyes
rolled down his cheeks. He felt passionately
and profoundly ; and he felt also his own utter
impatience to persuade her that he did so.

She looked at him with the tender but
tranquil gaze of a woman who has loved but
loves no more.

Whilst I could and did believe that I
loved you greatly, I had the right to take

your life to mine. Now that I do not believe
that, now that I look in my own heart and
feel that in much it has ceased to respond to
yours, I have no longer such a right. I am
bound to restore you to your world, to your
freedom, to your friends.'

And you think that my life is to be thrown
aside like that as if it were a mere toy of which
you had tired ! '

I have never treated it as a toy, nor ever
treated it lightly, though once you treated
mine so. You are unhappy, and you will be
unhappy — for a time. But you will be reconciled
to yourself, to your society, and to
your wife. Our position is one in which there
can be the most perfect happiness, whatever
moralists may say, so long as there is perfect
love. But so long only ; and that is not
between us now, though there are the memories
of it. They must be sacred enough
to preserve us from all recrimination, from all
enmity.'

The silence which followed on her words
was filled only by the voice of the sea.

The splendour of the night was around
them, and in its stillness there arose the song

K 2

of an early singing nightingale, breaking its
heart in the orange grove. He gave a gesture
of despair and cast himself once more at her
feet.

I cannot live without you ! I cannot — I
cannot ! '

She stooped and kissed him fondly, and
with lingering touch upon his brow and hair.

Yes, you can ; and you will. Do not
wait to feel our affection decay and dwindle
by inches day by day. Let us part while
we still care enough to part in tenderness.
So, dear — good-night.'

CHAPTEE LVII.

A FEW nights later Aubrey walked home from
Westminster after a tedious debate ; a weary
waste of breath and speech serving no purpose
but to bewilder brains already dull enough, and
deafen a country already only too obtuse.
He was fatigued, and was glad to breathe even
the close air of London streets after those many
hours of suffocating and useless verbiage.

His thoughts went, as they did ever in his
lonely moments, to Gladys. Was she sleeping
and dreaming, forgetful of her sorrows ? Or
was she sleepless and dreamless in that little
chamber under the apple-boughs, within the
sound of the sea. When he entered the great
gates of Balfrons House it was almost daybreak ;
he went to his writing-room as usual to glance
at any letters or despatches which might have
come during the evening. There were several ;
but prominent to his eyes amongst them was a

large envelope bearing the post-mark of Paris
and addressed to him by Guilders.

The only woman whom I love has dismissed
me,' said this strange message. ' I am
free with such poor freedom as can be enjoyed
by one who will for ever drag behind him the
weight of an unchangeable regret. I shall
never love the innocent woman whom I have
married ; but I will, if she accepts such reparation,
do my duty by her. I cannot, I dare not
promise more. I have been false, often involuntarily,
to all my past promises save one
hitherto ; but to this promise which I now
offer I will be faithful if her indulgence is
extended to me and her affections can be satisfied
v/ith respect. I send my letter to her
through you, first because I know that you
have more influence over her than any one ;
and, in the second place, because I owe you
amends for the insult and the suspicion which
I passed upon you. I can give you no better
proof of my conviction that both were undeserved
by you than by sending through you
this offer of my future to her. I trust to your
loyalty and your honour in confiding such a
mission to them, and can think of no better way

to prove to you that I am confident you are her
best friend and my most faithful adviser. You
used harsh and bitter words to me when we
last met ; but they were such as I esteem you
for, and if severe they were deserved. I have
had too much vanity and too much success in
life and in love ; I have, in both, now received
the most humiliating and the most indelible
rebuff. I have failed to retain the heart and to
satisfy the imagination of the one woman for
whom I have felt a lasting or an unselfish
passion. For my suffering you will care nothing,
and you will say that in bringing a
crippled and mortified heart to my wife I shall
but offend her further. It may be so, and if
she thinks so I shall not protest against her decision.
But, again, you have said that she
loves me still, and women who love content
themselves with little. The immensity of their
tenderness is wide enough to cover all shortcomings,
and they are happy if they can heal
any wounds, even if those wounds have been
made by other women. I do not know that she
has this tenderness to me ; she has always to me
seemed very cold. But you have said that she
has it, and has it for me. Be this as it may, she

is proud ; she may prefer to silence the tongues
of the world by a reunion which shall be as real,
or merely as apparent, as she pleases. There
has been no publicity such as would make such
reunion impossible, and the world, if we resume
our former life, will soon forget that we
have been separated. At all events I have
thought that duty and honour, however tardily
obeyed, lead me to offer my future to her. She
can do with it what she pleases.'

Aubrey flung the letter on the floor in
passionate anger. Its sincerity he did not
doubt, but the mission it placed on him was
loathsome.

Can he not go back to her without my
intervention ? ' he thought bitterly. ' Must he
needs call on me to rejoin his broken ties ?
Could he find no other messenger ? Could
he not write to her direct by ordinary means ?
What title has he to put such a burden upon
me ? What right, in Heaven's name, to bid me
carry his soul to her and beseech her to wash
it white ? '

He knew that Guilders had written to him
in all honesty and well-meaning, intending to
make reparation for his suspicions by an act of

perfect and even chivalrous confidence. He did
justice to the motives which had dictated the
letter, but he cursed the writer for its cruelty
and for the task which it laid upon him. For
awhile he was tempted to reject it ; to send it
back, with its enclosure, and say, ' I cannot be
your ambassador. She is yours — go to her without
preface.'

Thrice he wrote those lines, or lines similar
to them ; and then tore them up, dissatisfied
with them as cowardice and selfishness. If he
loved her as he did, should he lose any occasion
of opening the gates of happiness to her ? He
knew that she was proud and unforgiving ;
that she deemed herself bound in self-respect
to adhere to her choice of a lonely and self-sufficing
life ; he knew that Guilders, going to
her simply because the woman whom he loved
had dismissed him, would almost surely be dismissed
by her with scorn and even with hatred.

Was not he, who knew this, bound to do
his uttermost to stand between her and what
would be to her lifelong severance from one
whom she loved ? to employ such means as he
possessed of swaying her mind and persuading
her character to bend to that forgiveness without

which she would be eternally wretched?
to do for her in this moment of her life what
her father would certainly have done had he
been living now ?

He was obliged in no way, indeed, to serve
her or his cousin ; he could let their lives drift
apart as they might, and would have no need to
blame himself or fear the blame of others. But
that cold neutrality seemed base to him ; that
withdrawing of his conscience behind the pale
of what was obligation, and what was not,
seemed to him poor and mean ; generous natures
know nothing of such cautious limitations.

If I love thee, what is that to thee ? ' he
thought. Nothing indeed, but to him it was
much ; to him it seemed to require from him
as much devotion and service as though she
had been wholly his. She had trusted him,
entirely and innocently trusted him ; to Aubrey
this gave her title to his allegiance for ever.

He took UD the letter for her which had been
enclosed in Guilders's. It was left unsealed
for him to read it. He did not read it, he could
guess the contents ; they must be, he knew, the
same that had been said to him, softened and
mitigated probably, but the same in substance.

He put it unread in the inner pocket of this
coat and rang for his private secretary.

I must go into the country for a day,' he
said to the young man ; ' there is nothing pressing
at the House for the moment, and I shall be
back tomorrow night in time for a division if
there be one. See to these matters ; ' and he
gave him the directions necessary for the
conduct of many subjects of importance and
urgency with the rapidity and clearness of explanation
which becomes second nature to public
men. In another hour he was in the open
country, and in the midst of fields and woods
bathed in pale sunshine, going towards the
south-west sea-shore where the village of
Christslea lay, with the swell of Atlantic rollers
beating against its cliffs.

He had not seen her since the day that he
had told her that he could have no mistress in
any sense of love save England. He had
written to her briefly from time to time, to
hear of her health ; but no other intercourse
had taken place between them. In his letters to
her he had pleaded the stress of his Parliamentary
work as the reason of his absence.
She understood what the true reason

was, and did not urge him to visit her as she had
been used to do. But the weeks and months had
been more dreary, more intolerable to her, now
that she had lost the one relief, the one solace,
the one pleased expectancy of his occasional
visits, and often she wished wistfully that she
were lying insensible to all pain beside her
father under the mossy turf.

The companionship and the correspondence
of Aubrey had been to her a far greater happiness
and consolation than she had known until
they had almost ceased, or had at the best
passed into an frequent and restrained assurance
of friendship. Often now as she walked
to and fro the shore in the rough winds of the
early spring weather, she felt with a feeling
akin to terror that it was not Guilders but his
cousin whom she missed, whom she thought of,
whom she regretted. All that serious and
tender solicitude for her, all that manly and
generous devotion to her, although so carefully
kept within the bounds of friendship and
family relationship, had penetrated her inmost
nature with its unselfishness and moved her to
a gratitude which was in itself a form of affection.
She had not been conscious of how great

a place he occupied in her life until the cessation
of his visits to Christslea.

She began slowly to realise, as she had never
realised before, what were those dangers to her
of which her father had warned her in words
whose meaning she could now read by the Hight
of her own heart. Her present was a blank,
and her future was one which terrified her.
She began to realise also how frightful a thing
was this utter loneliness to which she was self-condemned.
There were moments when it was
all that she could do to find strength to resist
the impulse to cast herself headlong from the
rocks, to seek the numbness and dumbness of
death amongst those tossing waves in which her
rosy feet had paddled in infancy, finding in
them her merriest playfellows. It was the
memory of her father which alone sustained
her against the supreme temptation of isolated
lives. She seemed to hear his voice saying to
her in the words of the Athenian by whom a
higher creed was reached than any priests
ever taught, 'When death approaches, the
mortal part dies, but the immortal part departs,
safe and uncorrupted, having withdrawn
itself from death.' Should she dare to put

out that light of the soul with her own
hand?

Her father had rightly foreseen that those
friends who would serve her best in the trials
of her life would be those Immortals with
whom he had taught her even as a child to
converse.

With the approach of the tardy English
spring the burden of her days grew heavier,
and their solitude more unbearable in its vacancy.
When all the gladness of reviving life is
coming to all animate things and to the waking
earth itself, all youth which is lonely and
unloved feels its isolation, and its physical and
spiritual desires, with more cruel sharpness than
at any other period of the year. Greenness to
the grass and glory to the flower can return —
why not the joys of the senses and the soul?

She knew that Aubrey had said aright ;
that her life was barren and unblessed. Was
it her own fault that it had become so ? Had
she lacked gentleness, sympathy, indulgence —
all those promised gifts which love should
bring unasked, and without which the bare
promise of fidelity is naught. Humility had
come to her, and great sadness, and contrition,

and self-censure ; she began to learn how hard
it is to guard the gates of the soul from its
tempters, how useless to pledge feelings which
must change as the mind and the heart grow
older, and demand more, ere they can be satisfied.
She ceased to blame her husband in proportion
as she ceased to care for him. Her
love seemed to have died out of her with that
violent and delirious jealousy which once had
moved her so absolutely, and now seemed dead
as last year's leaves.

It was a balmy and sunny afternoon when
Aubrey reached Christslea. The cattle, released
from their stalls, were straying at will on moor
and pasture. The first fisher fleet of the springtime
was visible in the offing, red-brown sails
against a silvery-blue sky. The orchards were
all in blossom in a sweet confusion of rose and
white. The pigeons flew above the boughs
and the sea-gulls flew above the waves. It was
all soft, cool, pale, and fresh ; English in its
sobriety and simplicity of tint, and with the
haze and the scent of the morrow's rain in the
air. She was standing in the orchard when he
put his hand on the latch of the gate. A joy
of which she was wholly unconscious broke

over the sadness of her face like sunshine as
she saw him and came towards him.

It is so long since you were here ! ' she
said, holding out both her hands to him.

He took them in his own, but did not hold
them for more than a moment.

Yes, it is long,' he said, with a sigh.

All that welcome and affection speaking in
her face were to him as the sight of a spring
of clear water to a tired wayfarer who cannot
reach to drink of it.

Have you missed me ? ' he asked, involuntarily.


A shiver passed over her as she stood in
the pale sunshine.

Very much,' she answered simply.

He was silent.

Then he said abruptly, ' Let us go up on
the cliff; I have something to tell you which
will be best told by your father's grave.
Besides, under all these blossoms and boughs
one cannot breathe.'

I will go where you wish,' she said ; her
new-born happiness was startled and overshadowed.
She had a presentiment of ill.

They walked almost in silence out of the

orchard, and across the stretch of rough grassland
which parted it from the chef-path which
Guilders a few months earlier had seen her
ascend. It was early in the afternoon, and the
silence was unbroken around them ; the air
was sweet and strong, the sea calm. They
crossed the head of the cliff until they reached
a seat under the churchyard wall, shaded by
the evergreen hedge and the yews and pines of
its enclosure.

We will wait here,' said Aubrey. ' You
can see the sea ; it is always your friend and
counsellor.' ^

The graveyard, with its tall and slender
marble pillar rising above the evergreen foliage
and the light, silvery, shadowy wands of
blossoming willows, was behind them, and before
them, far below, the grey and tranquil waters
of the bay.

I have this letter to bring to j^ou from
Evelyn,' he said, and took out the note addressed
to her and offered it to her.

As she recognised the handwriting she grew
very pale, and an expression that was almost
terror came into her eyes.

He has no right, no right whatever, to

VOL. III. S

address me,' lie said, and made a gesture to
refuse the letter. It fell on the turf between
them.

Aubrey stooped for it and offered it to her
again.

He has every right,' he said coldly, ' and
you are bound to read whatever he says to
you. Do not be either obstinate or ungenerous.'


It is you who are ungenerous to me.'

'Do not let us quarrel, my dear,' said
Aubrey, in the words which Beatrice Soria had
used to Guilders. 'Life is painful enough
without dissension. I bid you read this letter,
first because I know the contents, and know
that they are such as you are bound to consider,
and because, in the second place, as I
have been made the bearer of it, he would
think that I had betrayed my trust if you
refused.'

She was silent some moments; then she
took the envelope from his hand, and opened
it and read what it contained.

She read it rapidly, guessing rather than
perusing its sentences.

'Aubrey will tell you better than I can

write to you what it is I ask from you after
these many months of silence and separation.
Do not think, my clear, that I would urge
for a moment any rights that the law may
give me when I have morally forfeited them ;
and do not think that I would seek to persuade
or to solicit you. I tell you frankly, the
woman I love, for whom I left you, loves meno
more. This avowal is the greatest proof of
my sincerity and of my humility that I can
give to you. 1 make you no grand protestations,
but, if you care to do so, our Use together
might be renewed, with every wish on my
part to make it happier for you than the past
has been. Marriage is the cruellest of all mistakes,
and I cannot ever regret enough that I
led into its captivity your innocent and ignorant
youth I can only say that the error was
made by me in all good faith, and that if I
have been untrue to my promises to you and
to your father I have always been so without
premeditation and with self-reproach which
has been more poignant than you would
consent to believe. I have offended you, and
I will not seek to palate my offence by saying,
as I perhaps might say with some show of 



justification, that you did not give me either
that sympathy or that indulgence which I had
hoped for from you. It is enough to say now
that if you care to do so I am willing to begin
our lives afresh.'

The letter was manly, sincere, and plainly
written from the heart ; it would have touched
and won any woman who had loved him into
forgiveness of faults even much graver than
his had been ; but it did not touch hers
because the feeling which had bound her to
him was dead, and a dead thing can return
neither cry nor caress. She read it. Then she
threw it again on the ground.

He comes to me because she has dismissed
him ! ' she cried with violence, her nostrils
dilated and quivering like those of a blood-mare
under the spur.

It is at least honest of him to tell you so.
He could easily have affected to you that he
abandoned her for your sake. Believe me,
candour in a man of the world to women,
and about women, is the very rarest of all
qualities.'

She turned on him with passionate indignation
and suffering.

You defend him ; you always defend him !
Why should he choose you as his messenger ?
Has he not hurt me enough already ? '

Aubrey passed over the admission which
was confessed in her words.

He chose me because he had been unjust
to me and wished to give me this mark of his
confidence,' he replied, with that self-negation
which he had imposed on himself when he had
accepted the mission to her. ' I do not defend
his past conduct. He knows all that I think of
it. But I am compelled in honour to say
now, that I believe he desires fully to make
such reparation to you as may be in kis
power.'

Because the Duchess Soria has wearied ot
him ! '

Not only because of that. He is neither
heartless nor conscienceless, and he felt bitterly
months ago that he had been false to his
promises to your father. I think you may
believe what he says now the more fully
because he makes no protest of feelings which
do not move him, and which would be even an
insult offered to you at this moment, however
the future may renew them in both of you.'

They will be never renewed. Their love
was renewed because it had once been great ;
but between him and me there has never
been such love — never, never ! A year ago it
would have made me glad,' she said wearily.
I should perhaps have scorned myself, as I
told you that I should do, but I should have
been happy. Not now. He has waited too
long. What does he think I am that I
should be willing to meet him after all these
months ? '

He thinks you are what you are — his
wife.'

He set me free from that bond when he
left me.'

'Your father would not have said so.'

But I say so. Go you and tell him so.
Why does he seek to return to me ? Not out
of real remorse, nor any tenderness ; only
because he is proud and he knows that the
world blames him.'

You are too harsh.'

Truth is harsh.'

He felt a mad longing to lift her in his
arms and bear her far away from all their
world before his cousin could reach there to

claim her. For a moment all the soft pale
sunshine seemed to him red as blood, and the
beating of the sea upon the sands like the
throbs of the many human hearts sounding in
agonised revolt against the brutalities and the
hypocrisies of social law.

If he had written it a year ago — six
months ago — it would have made me happy.
I would have forgiven all — ah ! what do I say ?
love always forgives because it is love. Now I
cannot forgive because I have ceased to care !
Why does he come to me when it is too late ?
Go, tell him so. It is too late ! too late ! '

'It is never too late for a woman's

mercy

Mercy ! What mercy would there be ina
feigned welcome ? What is the body without
the soul ? What use to give him myself
when I cannot give him my affections ? '

You will give them again when you have
seen him once more. You are dreaming of
coldness and of harshness that you do not
feel '

I have ceased to dream long ago. I know
what life is too well. Dreams are for the
happy.'

Surely on your side '

Yes ; I loved him as one loves when one
is very young; but it is dead in me; it is
dead, dead, dead, I tell you, like any skeleton
of any drowned creature that lies at the bottom
of that sea ! '

Aubrey turned from her, and walked to
and fro upon the turf before her. The pain of
the moment was almost beyond his strength,
well tutored though it was.

- You think so,' he said after a long pause ;
you think so because you are hurt, indignant,
and even more outraged at his solicitation of forgiveness
than you were by his original desertion.
But this will pass away. You once loved my
cousin with passion if not with wisdom ; he is
not a man whom women forget. When he comes
to you, you will consent to what he wishes ; you
will pass over those eighteen months of bitterness,
you will only remember that you were once
devoted to him, and that he was the man who
taught you the first meaning of love, and was
the father of your dead children.'

Sto, no, no ! ' she said with violence. ' No
for ever no ! His place is empty in my heart.
There is a stone there ; no warmth, no desire,

no remembrance ; only a stone, the stone which
has the seal of oblivion, the stone that you seton
a grave ! '

She threw herself on her knees beside the
wooden bench and buried her face in her hands,
and sobbed with the convulsive weeping which
he had seen once before.

Why could I not meet you first ! You
would have been true to me I ' she cried in the
passion of her tears ; not knowing what she
said, knowing only that a great nature was
wasted on her in vain, without joy to itself or
gladness to her.

Aubrey sighed ; his features changed and
his eyes filled with an unspeakable yearning.

He saw that her heart in its indignation, its
solitude, its want of sympathy, and its recognition
of sympathy, both of feeling and of temperament,
in him, turned towards him instinctively
as a beaten child turns to those who will
soothe and caress it. He saw that with but little
effort he could detach her from what still remained
in her of love for his cousin, and lead
her humiliated and lonely soul to his, there to
find comfort if not joy. He knew that he had
in him the power to console her, the heart

which could alone meet and content her own ;
but he knew, too, that it rested with him to
awake her to this knowledge or to let it slumber
in her un aroused for ever. He had never
before deemed it possible. He had been wholly
sincere when he had told his cousin that she
cared nothing for himself. But in this moment,
in her whole attitude, in the tears she wept, in
the broken words she muttered, he realised that
it would not be a task beyond his powers to
make her see in him more than a friend, to
lead her from gratitude to other and warmer
emotions, to suggest to her that the greatest
chastisement which a woman can take upon a
faithless love is to find and make her life's
happiness without it. For a moment all his
heart and all his senses made the temptation
more than he had strength to bear ; but with
an instant's meditation he found force to resist.
I should not have loved you in that way,
my dear,' he said, with a lie which was more
heroic than any truth. ' Long ago I loved one
woman madly, and she was false to me. I
would have told you my story before now, but
I never thought that you would care to hear it.
I gave to her all that a man can give, and she

rewarded me by the lowest of intrigues, the
foulest of infidelities. I was very young when
she robbed my life of all its colour and
warmth, and left me only such cold consolation
as may lie in the pursuit of public duties.
But she closed my heart to passion for ever.
I can feel affection and devotion — I feel them
both for you — but nothing beyond those.
Do not think of me ever as a lover for any
living woman. The only mistress I shall ever
have, in any sense of love, is England.'

His voice was low and grave, and infinitely
tender ; his declaration was an untruth, but it
was nobler than all truth.

Even were it otherwise with me,' he said
wearily, ' I could not, I would not, risk the
accusation from my cousin and the world that
I had abused his trust in me, that I had taken
advantage of his absence and your loneliness.
I may mistake, and think that honour in me
which is only selfishness ; but this is what I
feel and what would guide me if — if — you
were still dearer to me than you are.'

He paused, and his deep and laboured
breathing sounded painfully upon the country
silence round them.

And if,' lie added, ' if I be so urgent with
you to receive Guilders and reunite your life
to bis, it is because I feel that in the earliest
years of our acquaintance I perhaps did wrong
in enlisting your confidence and giving you
my sympathy. I often now blame myself; 1
perhaps helped to alienate you from him. I
perhaps turned towards myself sympathies and
confidences which, had I not been there, might
have found their way in time to him. I ask
you, dear, to take this remorse from me. He
has many lovable qualities ; he has many high
talents ; he feels sincerely towards you, if not
warmly ; you may make his future such as his
boyhood promised, if you care for him.'

But I do not care ! '

She rose to her feet ; her features were
stern and scornful, her eyes were full of
passionate feeling burning through their tears ;
he seemed to her as cruel as Guilders had
been, as the world had been, as life had been ;
caring nothing for her, and her pain, and her
fate ; caring only for the world's opinion and
a man's egotism, and the mere pride of race.

Then I have more remorse than I thought,
or than I have strength to bear,' he said, as his

eyes met hers for one moment in that regard
which strips bare the heart and unveils the
inmost soul.

Without another word, or any sign even
of farewell, he turned away from her and went
with rapid steps across the grassland and down
the pathway of the cliff.

She stood motionless and looked after him,
her eyes wistfully searching the vacant air long
after he had passed from sight.

The spring night was cold and the dews
falling heavily when she left the place where
her father lay, and returned with slow send
tired steps to the house.

She had her husband's letter in her hand.
When she reached her chamber, she read it
again and again, trying to awake with it one
chord of the music which was silent in her
soul.

Life seemed to her hard, conventional,
artificial, hateful.

One man left her because his honour was
dearer to him than she was ; and one man
returned to her because he was uneasy whilst
the world thought ill of him.

What was the worth of love or friendship

if they quailed before the opinion of
others ?

What use were the beauty, and the heart,
and the mind of a woman if they could inspire
nothing more than that ?

She passed the hours of the night walking
to and fro that narrow bedchamber where she
had slept as a child, hearing the hoarse notes of
the village clock record the dreary passing of
the time.

CHAPTEE Lviii.

That night Guilders was in his house in
Paris, the prey to many conflicting feelings
which banished the carelessness and ease with
which his nature had hitherto met the complexities
of human life.

He was not sure whether he most wished
or most feared his wife's acceptance of his
offer. He had been entirely honest in all that
he had written to her and to his cousin ; but
he dreaded the results of it with that shrinking
from all pain and all obligation which had
always been so strong in him.

He could not dismiss the anxiety which
governed him ; he could not eat or sleep, or
seek his usual distractions in this city which
was so familiar and so pleasant to him ; he was
restless under the sense which haunted him of
the inevitable scorn with which Aubrey would
regard his vacillations and his confidence, and

he already repented the impulse which had
made him select his cousin as his intercessor.

He wished that he had gone himself without
any preparation or mediation to Christslea
as the day and the night wore onward, and
each succeeding hour might bring him a message
from Aubrey.

His heart ached for the first time in his
life under a wound which could not be closed
or stilled by any anodyne of pleasure. The
humiliation with which the dismissal of the
woman he loved had filled him would not pass
away for many a year ; perhaps never.

He was conscious that she had weighed him
in the scales of her ^x\q intelligence and found
him wanting ; he knew that he had failed to
respond to her imagination ; he knew, too, that
what she had ceased to give to him she might
give to others. He had been weary, dissatisfied,
and haunted by remorse when with her, but
without her his existence was a blank and his
soul torn by a vague but intolerable jealousy.

He who had never before known that
passion which is the companion of unhappy love
was now, if it be possible to be so, jealous at once
of two women whose affections he had possessed

utterly, and yet whom he had both, through his
own inconstancy and vacillation, lost ; and for
the first time in his whole life neither his careless
philosophy nor his swiftly-changing caprices
could solace him or build up anew the cloud-palace
of amorous content. He was dissatisfied
with himself. All that was best and most
spiritual in him condemned him in his own eyes.
He could have defended his conduct easily to
others, but he could not defend it to himself.

It was dawn in the streets of Paris, and
birds were twittering in the lime-trees beneath
his window when his servant brought him tl^
telegram he was expecting from his cousin.

He tore it open nervously.

I have done what you asked,' said Aubrey
in it. ' I have no mandate from her, but I
believe it will be as you wish. Go yourself.'

Was he glad or not ? He could not tell.
He was conscious of a weight of duties and
obligations which rolled back like a stone over
his life ; but he was also conscious of that
relief which comes from a choice finally resolved
and a conscience quieted and appeased. Amidst
all the chaos of his thoughts he was touched
to admiration of Aubrey's generosity and

VOL. III. T

loyalty. Not one man in ten millions would
have accepted such a task, or, accepting it,
would have executed it to the end with perfect
self-abnegation. He could not have reached
such stoical nobility himself ; but he recognised
the greatness of it.

I shall go to England this morning,' he
said to his people ; and as he spoke the door
of his room opened and his sister entered.
She had arrived that moment in Paris, and
had come there without changing her clothes,
taking an hour's sleep, or even breaking her fast.

He saw her with displeasure. They had
not met since the late summer which had followed
John Vernon's death ; and the remembrance
of her letters which he had read in
Venice was fresh and hateful in him.

She seemed ever to him like a bird of evil
omen watching and waiting till the corpse of
some dead human happiness fell to her. And
yet she was what the world called a good
woman — pious, chaste, virtuous, and wise.

Why are you here ? ' he said with impatience
and discourtesy, making no affectation of
a welcome which he could not give or of a pleasure
which he could not feel.

Is that all the greeting you give me after
all these months ? '

I cannot pretend what I do not feel,' he
said irritably. ' I am sure that you would not
come to me thus, unannounced, summoned,
unless you had some bad news to bring or some
cruel suspicion to suggest.'

You are unjust ' — her voice was broken,
her lips quivered ; she was tired, cold, and unnerved
; in her own way she loved him, and
she felt that even such affection as he had ever
felt for her was gone.

I am not unjust,' he answered coldly.
You have never ceased to irritate and alienate
me. You mean well, perhaps, but if you have
the intentions of a saint, you have the insinuations
of a fiend. I received all your letters in
Italy. I never answered them because they
offended and disgusted me. You always hated
my wife. You recognised the fineness of her
nature, but you never ceased to be pitiless to
her. I do not know it ; but, I am as certain as
that we stand here, that it was you who informed
her of my relations, before my marriage,
with the only woman I ever loved.'

I thought it right that she should know of

'r2

them,' replied his sister, who was never without
courage. ' And those same relations renewed
after marriage have been made public to everyone
by yourself.'

What is that to you P ' said Guilders,
white with ill-controlled passion. ' You are
not my keeper. It is nothing to you what
I do. You are a good woman — oh yes ! — and
you make your virtues into a sheaf of poisoned
arrows with which you slay the lives of others.
What did you write — what did you dare to
write — to me in Venice and elsewhere ? You
slandered Aubrey, whom the whole country
respects ; you slandered my wife, whose first
and staunchest friend you ought to have been ;
and you insinuated to me suspicions which
might very easily, had I been either more
credulous or more hot-tempered, have ended
in bloodshed between my cousin and myself,
or at the best in a public quarrel which would
have disgraced us both. That is what you call
goodness, sincerity, affection ! God deliver me
from them and send me sinners ; sinners of
every sin under heaven, but with sympathy in
them and generosity and mercy ! '

She was silent for a moment. She had

never seen him so fully roused, so reckless in
denunciation ; she loved him greatly, and she
felt in every word the severance one by one of
the ties of consanguinity and habit which had
bound them together.

But she was a woman who was pitiless in
pursuit of her purpose ; unchangeable in her
opinions and her conduct, unrelenting in her
tyranny and curiosity and meddlesome inquisition
into the lives and thoughts of others.

I pass over your insults and your ingratitude,'
she said, with difficulty controlling the
rage she felt. ' I wish only to ask you one
question. I have come from England to ask
it. I heard by chance that you were in Paris.
Is it true that you intend to effect a reconciliation
with your wife ? '

'Who told you that I do so ? '

No one told me. But I have heard its
possibility discussed, vaguely, in society.'

'Well? What then?'

You cannot mean it ? You could not drag
your name in the dust ? Your severance from
her was bad enough ; but your reconciliation to
her would be worse, ten million times worse.
It is not to be thought of, not to be dreamed

of, for one instant ! You owe it to your whole
family ! '

What do I owe to my family ? '

He had grown quite calm ; his violence had
spent itself, but she, who had known him from
his earliest years, knew that this tranquillity had
more real menace and sterner meaning in it.

But she had never quailed before the fury
of any of the men related to her whom she had
tortured, fatigued, and injured for their good, as
their good was seen by her.

You owe it to your family,' she replied,
to your family and to yourself, not to take
again into your life before the world a woman
who has lived as your wife has done in your
absence.'

How has she lived ? '

How ? As no woman in her senses could
have lived. Withdrawn from every one ; herself
a mark for the most odious suspicions, receiving
no visits save from one man whose
name already had often been connected with
hers. You used to be proud, you used to care
beyond all things for your name — what will the
whole world say of you if, after more than a
year and a half of such a life as that. Lady

Guilders is once more admitted into your
houses and your heart ? '

Guilders looked at her ; and, bold woman
though she was, she was afraid of the effects of
her words.

He smiled slightly ; his smile was very
bitter and very contemptuous.

^ If you only came here to say this,' he said,
it was a pity you did not remain in England.
I should then at least have been able to forget
all that you wrote to me in Italy. You are a
virtuous woman, but you are a cruel woman.
If you had any mercy in you, you would have
been stirred to compassion for Gladys ; you
would have gone to her, you would have
counselled her, you would have set the shield
of your unblemished position between the
world and her. Even if you had hated her,
still you should have done so for my sake.
Aubrey alone did what he could. I am grateful
to him. Whoever hints a word against him
is my enemy. The mistake made by Gladys
was the mistake of an imaginative, unworldly,
and over-sensitive nature ; but it was a noble
mistake — one which none but an ignoble nature
could possibly misjudge. I am blamable in

much, but I am not utterly vile. I offended
her, and, if life permits it to me, I will atone
to her. It never occurred to me as possible
that the world could blame her for my fault.
Possibly it would never have dared to do so
had not you been the first to cast a stone at her.'

Are you the dupe of your wife as you have
been of others ? '

I am no one's dupe, except my own sometimes.
And now you will pardon me if I leave
you. The house of course is yours to stay in
if you choose. But I am about to leave for
England, and you will pardon me if I say that
I wish to go alone. Short as the journey is, it
would be too long for me to make it in the
society of one who is the unkindness enemy of
myself and of those who are dear to me.'

What ! Does the devotion of a lifetime
count for nothing? Are those dear to you
whom you forsook, and by whom you have
been betrayed ? Do you utterly forget all my
affection, all my forgiveness, all my defence of
your errors in the world, for sake of a woman
whom you are tired of one day and idealise
the next, only because she no longer cares
what you do ? '

My good sister,' said Giiilderoy, with
something of his old manner, ' I told you long
ago that you were equally discontented with
me whether I took the paths of vice or the
paths of virtue, to use the jargon of the world's
very arbitrary and rather senseless classifications.
You were indignant when I left my wife.
You are indignant now that it is possible I may
return to her. I do not see that in either case
you have any title to be my judge ; and I regret
to feel that you have forfeited the power to be
my friend.'

With that he left her ; and she, mortified,
worsted, and made impotent as an arbiter of
fate, broke down into a fit of womanlike and
heartbroken weeping.

She recalled the voice of John Vernon
saying in the summer stillness of his garden,
Be kind to her.' She knew that she had
been more than not kind ; that she had been
cruel, that she had deserted her, injured her,
and been the first to lead the world to see harm
and disgrace in the solitude of that simple life
at Christslea. Fool that she had been to let
her prejudice and jealousy warp her judgment
so utterly ! Fool that she had been not to have

had sense and penetration enough to foresee
that the time would come when her brother
would resent as a dishonour done to himself all
slur and suspicion cast through her upon the
innocence of his wife !

Her pride at last realised that she had no
influence over those she strove to move ; no
wisdom in her interference, no place in the
hearts of those she loved ; she saw at last her
own soul as it truly was, with curiosity in the
guise of friendship, harshness in the mask of
justice, meddlesome and vexatious authority in
the form of affection, unconscious jealousy and
malignity in the golden robes of virtue.

CHAPTEE LIX.

A WHOLE day and yet another sleepless night
had passed with Gladys in that wretchedness
of uncertainty in which the soul is like a house
divided against itself. All that was noblest in
her urged her to do what Aubrey had begged
of her ; all that was human, weak, passionate
and selfish refused to do it.

She understood why marriage, which is so
burdensome and so unrecompensed to the man,
is to the woman so great an emancipation and
enrichment. Yet were she only free now —
only a child as she had been when Guild troy
had found her on the moors ! And she remembered
bitterly that, even if she were so, the
world would only see in her feeling for Aubrey
ambition and acquisitiveness, as it had seen it
in her marriage ; and the voice of her father
seemed to rebuke her, saying, as he had often
said, in the words of Socrates to Crit, ' Is it

worth while to think so much of the opinion of
others ? '

No, it was not worth~while ; all the natural
nobility of her nature recognised the nobility
of Aubrey's words and acts ; but, womanlike,
their austerity, commanding her admiration, left
her heart cold ; womanlike, she would have
fain had him think less of his honour, more of
her. An infinite regret, which she knew would
abide with her so long as ever she should have
life, weighed on her for the pain which she had
brought on him through her unthinking acceptance
of his devotion and her too selfish appeals
to him. And yet it seemed to her that after all
he loved her but little ! Women can never
accept or understand the feeling which places
honour before themselves. It only hurts them.

With the contradiction of human wishes,
the simple secluded life of Christslea, which
had seemed hardly better than a living death,
grew dearth her. The even and monotonous
time, the empty house, the homely ways,
seemed safe and peaceful. Beside the troubled
course of passions, of pleasures, and of pains
which make up the life of the world,
her residence in this little seaside hamlet appeared

serene and secure as the haven of a
religious house appeared to those who, after
the deceptions of love and the temptations of
power, withdrew themselves to Port Royal or
La Trappe. Its dreariness, its vacancy, the
despair before it which had often seized her
in its long moonless winter nights, when the
silence of snow was all around, and in its grey
melancholy summer evenings, when the hoot
of the owl alone answered the lapping of the
waves, all these passed away from her mind ;
she only remembered that here she had known
that freedom from fresh and poignant pangs
which seemed to her the nearest approach to
happiness that fate would ever give to her.

She shrank from all which return to her life
with her husband must mean for her. She
was wholly honest ; and, accepting what he
offered, she knew that she must fulfil all her
obligations to him. Some women might have
made a feint of forgiveness only to acquire the
means to wound, to irritate, to chastise, to
mortify him ; but any such treachery as that
was impossible to the daughter of John Vernon.
Returning to her life at Ladysrood must, she
knew, mean for her the reassumption of all

those ties from which she had for nearly two
years looked upon herself as freed.

She could do nothing meanly. As her
severance from him had been complete and im
compromising, so she knew that her reunion
with him must be entire, and her acceptance of
him faithful in the spirit as well as in the letter.
Only a year ago it would have made her so
happy to have given that which he sought !
Though she had scorned the suggestion of
reconciliation with her lips, she had often
yearned for it in her heart ; but now — now it
was too late to give her any possible joy ; she
shrank from its necessity with both her body
and her mind.

What am I to do ? What shall I choose ? '
she asked herself, with passionate anxiety to
make the choice which should be right in her
father's sight and Aubrey's. The one was
dead, the other absent ; but both seemed
very close to her through all these hours, both
seemed at once her counsellors and her judges.

At times she remembered Guilders as he
had been in the first weeks of their life together,
and then a shudder passed over her, thinking
that all those ecstasies, those adorations, those

entreaties lavished on her then, had all been
given since to others ; and at such moments the
quiet chamber, the unbroken solitude of this
little cottage seemed to her the ' haven under
the hill,' like that which sheltered the storm-tossed
fisher-boats of Christslea where the cliffs
curved inward facing the setting sun.

She passed the chief portion of the day
pacing to and fro under the willows and yews
where the marble column said of him whose
mortal frame lay underneath it, shut within the
earth, that death comes kindly to those by whom
death has never been desired. The swallows
flew in and out of the quiet place, building their
nests in the eaves and gables of the church.
The soft pale sunbeams fell through the dark
shadows of the yew-trees and the grey plumes
of the willows. Now and then some cry of
a fisherman to another from the shore came
faintly on the air ; and the broad white wing
of a curlew brushed the topmost boughs of the
churchyard trees. When she left her father's
grave it was again evening ; calm and colourless
and sad as English evenings are, it seemed
like the reflection of her own soul. Her choice
was made.

It was late in the afternoon of the third day
when she entered the woods of Ladysrood.

They were in all the delicate and lovely
greenery of their first foliage. The bracken
and ferns were waving breast high, and the birds
were singing in the brushwood of the undergrowth
and in the branches of elm, oak, and
beech. The ground was blue in many a nook
with pimpernel and the wild hyacinth. Across
the grassy drives ever and again a deer bounded
or a hare scudded, He had never cared for
sport as other men care, and his woods and
forests were for the most part the peaceful
haunts of unmolested woodland creatures.
She thought dreamily of the old story of
Griseldis; had Griseldis, when her triumph
came, lost the love out of her heart which had
borne her through all her trials? Had she,
when bidden to return to her kingdom, lost all
wish for it, and only felt the heaviness of the
burden she was summoned to take up, the
weight and imprisonment of the reunion ?

Likely enough ; likely enough that Griseldis
had been a happier woman in her misery,
when hope and love had still been with her,
than in her return to her palace and her pomp.

She passed through all the sunshine and
stillness and fragrance of the dewy glades, and
entered those great gardens of the south-west,
in which the rose-walk was where her father had
bade her have patience, and Aubrey had said the
same words to her : words which had seemed to
her then so cold, so commonplace, so barren.

She saw the stately evergreen avenue, the
long aisles of the berceaux, the wide stone flights
of the terrace steps, and the western front of
the house, its buttresses and casements hung and
garlanded with pink and golden banksia in full
flower ; and for a little while she could not.see
them for the tears which blinded her eyes.
There her father had stood with her in the
summer night and had said to her :

It lies with you to retain three angels
which stand about the throne of life — honour,
unselfishness, and sympathy.'

The men at work as she passed and the
two servants who were idling on the terraces
recognised her, and saluted her humbly, and
were startled and afraid to see her there.

She bade them send the housekeeper to
her.

My lord returns tomorrow. Prepare every-vol.

III. U

Guilders

thing,' she said briefly. The old woman kissed
her hand and murmured trembling, ' The Lord
be thanked ! '

Gladys looked at her with a strange look.
Will it be well or ill ? ' she thought, and said
no more ; but entered the house where she
was mistress, and uncovered her head, and sat
down by one of the windows, and gazed out
at the gardens smiling in the western sun.
An infinite peace seemed to lie like a benediction
on the great house in its silence and fragrance
and majesty. But there was no peace in
her heart.

My father will be content, if he knows,'
she thought.

She could not think of his soul as dead, as
ignorant or as careless of her fate.

She rose after awhile and went up the
staircase to her own apartments, Kenneth and
the other dogs following her with soft noiseless
tread ; they knew the place again, but the change
to it troubled them. She let the women take
ofl" her the rough serge gown she wore, symbol
of the freedom and the solitude she relinquished,
and clothe her in one of the many gowns which
she had left there ; a gown of pale grey velvet,

embroidered with silver threads, with old
laces at the throat and arms. As she looked
at the worn folds of the serge skirt, with all
its stains of sea-sand and of wet grasses, she
sighed as Griseldis may have done, despite all,
when she put off her peasant's kirtle for the
regal robe once more.

With the old worn gown she put away
from her for ever liberty of the affections, liberty
of the actions, liberty even of the thoughts ; for
she was very loyal, and giving herself once more
she gave her undivided allegiance.

She clasped a necklace about her throat, a
necklace of old Venetian gold-work which he
had given her in the early days of their stay in
Venice, and turned from the mirror feeling as
though a score of years had gone since she had
last stood before it there. Then she descended
the stairs, where the afternoon sun still streamed
through the painted windows across the broad
steps and the oaken balustrade.

She went slowly, feeling as though she
dragged a dead body with her; the amber
glow of the late afternoon[shining on the silvery
softness of the velvet and the gold chainwork
of the necklace as she moved. The house was

Ii

Guilders

flooded with that rich light, that evening splendour,
that fragrance from blossoming gardens
and from dewy woodlands ; it seemed to make
a festival with its beauty and its odours and
its colour for her as she moved.

But her face was white, her step was reluctant,
her heart sick. For she knew that he was
on his way thither, and would soon rejoin
her. Even her return to Ladysrood would be
attributed by the world to coarse and selfish
reasons ; and the remembrance of that imputation
of low motives which the world is sure to
cast on high emotions, must ever be to the
nature which is above the herd a loathsome
and galling remembrance.

She looked at a portrait by Watts of
Aubrey which hung in the picture-gallery. It
seemed to gaze at her with eyes which had life
in them, and its lips seemed to utter an eternal
farewell. They would meet as friends and
relatives ; they would meet perforce and continually,
but the old sweet intimacy was over
for ever.

It left an immense loss, an immense void,
in her life which she had no belief that the
future could ever fill.

She wandered through the long succession
of rooms and galleries, and halls and corridors ;
the places were all so familiar, yet so strange
to her ; like the dogs, she was troubled by a
divided sense of exile and of return ; after the
little lowly chambers and lonely shores of
Christslea, Ladysrood seemed a palace for a
queen. Her husband had given it all to her ;
he had found her poor and obscure and had
enriched her with all he possessed. She had
never cared for these things indeed in any
vulgar or avaricious sense, but absence from
them had taught her to measure their value
in the eyes of others, and to understand why
her father, least worldly of all men, had said
to her that the greatness of Guilders's gifts
demanded from her gratitude and fealty.

She entered the drawing-rooms of the
western wing, where the last glow of the sunset
was lighting up with crimson reflections all the
beauty and luxury of the apartments.

She walked to and fro them in their solitude,
bidding the servants leave the windows open to
the evening air, which came in cool and damp
and full of the fragrance of spring flowers and
spring woodlands.

It was the last breath of the life which she
had given up and left for ever.

Henceforward she would live in the world,
for the world, of the world ; Guilders, she
knew, would never lead any other existence ;
the burden of its artificiality, the cruelty of its
crowds, the sameness of its pleasures, seemed
to weigh on her already with that monotony
and that irritation which she had always found
in them.

The hours passed on ; the day altered into
night ; the servants came and lighted all the
alights in the sconces and chandeliers of the
suite of rooms. She stood by one of the still
open windows looking out at the shadows of
the west garden, listening to the peaceful
splashing of the fountains falling in the fishponds
under the trees.

She could hear her own heart beat in the
stillness. She knew that he had returned, and
must soon come to her.

Tenderness and bitterness strove together in
her soul ; she remembered her father's words
spoken in that chamber, and she acknowledged
their nobility and beauty ; but she also remembered
the words with which Guilders

had there declared to her that he had never
loved her and loved another woman.

Why drag the chain between us when it is
pain to both ? ' she thought ; and her memory
went to Aubrey.

The evening became night ; the curfew-bell
which was still rung at Ladysrood tolled
from the clock-tower, the air grew colder and
had the sweet breath of a million of primroses
and hyacinths in it

In the stillness and sweetness of it, Guilders
stood before her. He looked older, paler,
more weary than he had done when he had
left her there eighteen months before ; he had
suffered both in his passions and in his pride ;
he had judged himself, and the world had
judged him, and the woman he loved had
judged him, and he and they had alike condemned
him. Would this other woman whom
he did not love, but in whose hands the conventional
honour of his name was placed by
the conventional laws of the world, condemn
him also? She looked at him and made no
gesture or movement which could assist him ;
her face was cold, and her eyes were passionless.

He crossed the room and kissed her hand

with his accustomed grace and with a ceremonious
and serious courtesy.

His lips were as cold as the hand which
they touched.

I thank you,' he said simply. The words
cost him much to utter ; he felt the responding
and fixed gaze of her eyes upon him, and
the warmer impulses, the more tender repentance,
with which he had entered her presence
froze under them.

'You have nothing to thank me for,' she
said coldly. ' You have asked me to return to
you for the world's sake, and for the world's
sake I have accepted.'

'Only for that?' he said, with hesitation,
perplexed and troubled.

For that, and for my promise to my father.
I said that I would never bring evil repute
upon his name and yours, and I will not.'

But have you no other feeling .^ None forme
? ' the words escaped him almost unconsciously,
and there was an accent of emotion,
almost of entreaty in them.

No ; none now.'

The answer was sad and immutable as
death.

His face flushed as he heard it.

Had you ever any ? ' he asked her.

Oh yes ; ' she sighed as she spoke, and
her eyes softened and darkened with many
memories. 'I loved you greatly, I have suffered
greatly ; but I do not love you now, nor
have you power to pain me. I was a child
when I loved you ; I am a woman now. I
will be honest with you. I do not care, I shall
never care ; but I will be to you what you wish ;
and the world — the world of which he and you
think so much ! — shall never know that it is so,
and your honour shall be as dear to me as
though you were dear.'

He heard her with profound humiliation,
with unspeakable pain. He had believed her
cold, but he had thought that, so far as she had
loved at all, her heart had been always with
him. He had come to her in repentance, in
wistful desire for peace, in a vague hope of he
knew not what new kind of happiness ; and he
found the chambers of her soul closed to him,
and occupied possibly, by another.

He had nerved himself to bend to what
was an act of humiliation and supplication ;
and, unknown to himself, he had looked in

return for the tenderness and sweetness of reconciliation,
even of welcome.

I know,' he murmured wearily, ' that my
offences against you have been many and great

'It is not that. I have learned to know
that they were natural enough. I was nothing
to you ; others were much. In the beginning
I did not understand you ; I did not know anything
of men's natures or of their passions. I
must have fatigued you, been insufficient for
you ; that I can understand. My father always
told me I was to blame, that I had not indulgence.'


Your father was merciful as a god always
and to all. He would tell you to be indulgent
now.'

Yes ; I know that he would. I know that
he would condemn me more than he would
you.'

He gazed at her in silence ; she was still
so young that even suffering had had no power
to mar her great personal beauty ; her face
was colourless and calm, her eyes full of unspeakable
sadness, her attitude unconsciously
one of dignity and rebuke. Vaguely he felt
that it was possible he should some day love

this woman hopelessly since she no more loved
him.

If you have ceased to care for me,' he
said almost inaudibly, ' I cannot complain ; I
have only caused you suffering and mortification.
I have told you that I will endeavour to
atone in the future ; but there is no reason
why you should believe me.'

I believe that you mean it now.'

But you have no faith in my constancy of
purpose ? Why should you have any ? Yet I
am sincere.'

Her eyes rested on him musingly, and softened
as they gazed.

I do believe you, but I cannot give you
the welcome you wished,' she said wearily. ' I
cannot, I cannot lie. If you had come back
to me a year ago I should have rejoiced ; I
loved you then — ah! why can I not now?
Where is it all gone ? Why did you leave
me alone ? '

You were not alone ! You had Aubrey !
And what you deny to me you gave to him ! '

She shrank from the name as if he had
stabbed her with it.

That is ungenerous,' she murmured. ' He

has been loyalty itself to you ; only a day ago
he pleaded for you with all his might and
blamed me ; neither my life nor yours is worth
one hour of his ! '

Violent words rose to Guilders's lips, but
he repressed them with great effort ; the justice
and the generosity which were in his nature
beneath all the egotism of long self-indulgence
conquered the passion of jealousy and of offence
which stirred his life to its very centre. After
all, what right had he to blame or to judge?
What title had he left to speak of his right to
her affections ?

The fault of all is mine,' he said with
great emotion. ' I left you in a position of the
greatest peril : if you had injured me in anyway
I should but have had what I merited.
If you love me no more, if you love a greater
and a better man, how dare I blame you ? I,
who so soon ceased to love you ! My poor
child, believe me at least in this — from my heart
I beseech you to pardon me the mad caprice
in which I bound your fate to mine. I thought
that you would be content, like so many women,
with all the material pleasures of the world or
of rank and of wealth ; I forgot that you were

your father's daughter, and that those could
have no power to console you when your heart
was seared and your pride was wounded.
Forgive me, dear ! '

He knelt at her feet as he spoke, and he
kissed the hem of her skirts. She passed her
hand over his hair with the same gesture, half
of tenderness, half of pity, which Beatrice Soria
had used.

A sigh which came from her soul's depths
breathed over him where he knelt.

I forgive you, I hope, and you must
forgive me,' she said gently. 'Do not ask
more of me yet.'

A few months later the country learned
that Lord Aubrey had accepted a distant and
arduous Viceroyalty, and, in its coarse foolishness,
it envied him his greatness.

THE END.

PRINTED BY

sporriswooDB and CO., NEW-STRBBT Square

LONDON

'S~

fj-^m

'}' ^

.- ■%::%m' '■•■■■

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 042839040

,Khrh*\^,

:^i

^j| ^r>;^.^.

^;^^5it!s'M%.?^

"': •^f^^'^S^rV'-

'^^m^.

;>'«*>

•:/':;^
