ILLINOIS LIBRARY

AT URBANACHAMPAIGN

STACKS

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

JUL 2 ])8S

L161— O-1096

A NOVEL

BY

OUIDA

Like unto moths fretting a garment ' (Psalm)

IN THREE VOLUMES— VOL. L

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



the right 0/ translation is reserved \

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

Inscribed

TO

MY OLD FRIEND

Algerian BORTHWICK

IX MEMORY OF THE DAYS OF
'PUCK'
i^> AND AS A SLIGHT TOKEN OF AN

UNCHANGED REGARD
^ AND ESTEEM

CHAPTER I.

Lady Dolly ought to have been perfectly
happy. She had everything that can constitute
the joys of a woman of her epoch.

She was at Troaville. She had won heaps
of money at play. She had made a correct
book on the races. She had seen her chief
rival looking bilious in an unbecoming gown.
She had had a letter from her husband to say
he was going away to Java or Jupiter or
somewhere indefinitely. She wore a costume
which had cost a great tailor twenty hours of

VOL. I. B

anxious and continuous reflection. Nothing
but baptiste indeed ! but baptiste sublimated and
apotheosis by niello buttons, old lace, and
genius. She bad her adorers and slaves
grouped about her. She bad found her dearest
friend out in beating at cards. She bad dined
the night before at the Maison Personne and
would dine this night at the Maison Normande.
She had been told a state secret by a minister
wbicb she knew it was shameful of him to have
been coaxed and chaffed into revealing. She
bad had a new comedy read to her in 
three months before it would be
given in Paris, and bad screamed at all its
indecencies in the choice company of a Serene
Princess and two ambassadresses as they all
took their chocolate in their dressing-gowns.
Above all, she was at Trouville, having left
half a million of debts behind her strewn
about in all directions, and standing free as air
in gossamer garments on the planks in the
summer sunshine. There was a charming blue
sea beside her; a balmy fluttering breeze
around her, a crowd of the most fashionable

sunshades of Europe before lier, like a bed of
full-blown anemones. She had floated and
bobbed and swum and splashed semi-nude,
with all the other mermaids a la mode, and had
shown that she must still be a pretty woman,
pretty even in daylight, or the men would not
have looked at her so : and yet with all this
she was not enjoying herself.

It was very hard.

The yachts came and went, the sands glittered,
the music sounded, men and women in
bright-coloured stripes took headers into the
tide or pulled themselves about in little canoes ;
the snowy canvas of the tent shone like a huge
white mushroom, and the faces of all the houses
were lively with green shutters and awnings
brightly striped like the bathers; people, the
gayest and best-born people in Europe, laughed
and chattered, and made love, and Lady Dolly
with them, pacing the deal planks with her
pretty high heeled shoes ; but for all that she
was wretched.

She was thinking to herself, ' What on earth
shall I do with her ? '



It ruined her morning. It clouded the
sunshine. It spoiled her cigarette. It made
the waltzes sound like dirges. It made her
chief rival look almost good-looking to her. It
made a gown combined of parrots' breasts and
passion-flowers that she was going to wear in
the afternoon feel green, and yellow, and bilious
in her anticipation of it, though it was quite
new and a wonder. It made her remember her
debts. It made her feel that she had not
digested those crevices at supper. It made
her fancy that her husband might not really goto
Java or Jupiter. It was so sudden, so appalling,
so bewildering, so endless a question;
and Lady Dolly only asked questions, she never
answered them or waited for their answers.

After all, what could she do with her?
She, a pretty woman and a wonderful flirt,
who liked to dance to the very end of the
cotillon, and had as many lovers as she had
pairs of shoes. What could she do with a
daughter just sixteen years old?

It makes one look so old ! ' she had said to
herself wretchedly, as she had bobbed and

danced in the waves. Lady Dolly was not
old ; she was not quite thirty four, and she was
as pretty as if she were seventeen, perhaps
prettier ; even when she was not ' done up,'
and she did not need to do herself up very
much just yet, really not much, considering,
well, considering so many things, that she
never went to bed till daylight, that she never
ate anything digestible, and never drank anything
wholesome, that she made her waist
fifteen inches round, and destroyed her nerves
with gambling, chloral, and many other things ;
considering these, and so many other reasons,
besides the one supreme reason that everybody
does it, and that you always look a fright if you
don't do it.

The thought of her daughter's impending
arrival made Lady Dolly miserable. Telegrams
were such horrible things. Before she had
had time to realise the force of the impending
catastrophe the electric wires had brought her
tidings that the girl was actually on her way
across the sea, not to be stayed by any kind of
means, and would be there by nightfall. Nightfall

at Trouville! When Lady Dolly in the
deftest of summer-evening toilettes would be
just opening Iter pretty mouth for her first
morsel of salmon and drop of Chablis, with the
windows open and the moon rising on the sea,
and the card-tables ready set, and the band
playing within earshot, and the courtiers all
around and at her orders, whether she liked to
go out and dance, or stay at home for poker
or chemin-defer,

'What in the world shall I do with her,
Jack ? ' she sighed to her chief counsellor.

The chief counsellor opened his lips, answered,
' Marry her ! ' then closed them on a
big cigar.

Of course ! One always marries girls ; how
stupid you are,' said Lady Dolly peevishly.

The counsellor smiled grimly, 'And then
you will be a grandmother,' he said with a cruel
relish : he had just paid a bill at a bric-à-brac
shop for her and it had left him unamiable.

I suppose you think that witty,' said Lady
Dolly with delicate contempt. ' Well, Helene
there is a great-grandmother, and look at her!'

Helene was a Prussian princess, married to
a Russian minister : she was arrayed in white
with a tender blending about it of all the blues
in creation, from that of a summer sky to that
of a pains lazuli ring; she had a quantity of fair
curls, a broad hat wreathed With white lilac and
convolvulus, a complexion of cream, teeth of
pearl, a luminous and innocent smile ; she was
talking at the top of her voice and munching
chocolate ; she had a circle of young men round
her ; she looked, perhaps, if you wished to be
ill-natured, eight-and-twenty. Yet a great-grandmother
she was, and the almanac de
Gotha ' said so, and alas ! said her age.

You won't wear so well as Helene. You
don't take care of yourself,' the counsellor
retorted, with a iKiff of smoke between each
sentence.

What ! ' screamed Lady Dolly, so that her
voice rose above the din of all the other voices,
the sound of the waves, the click-clack of the
high heels, and the noise of the band. ISTot
take care of herself! — she! — who had every
fashionable medicine that came out and, except

at Trouville, never would be awakened for any
earthly thing till one o'clock in the day.

You don't take care of yourself said the
counsellor. 'No ; you eat heaps of sweetmeats.
You take too much tea, too much ice, too much
soup, too much wine; too much everything.
You '

Oh ! if you mean to insult me and call mea
drunkard— — ! ' said Lady Dolly, very hotly
flushing up a little.

You smoke quite awfully too much,' pursued
her companion immovably. ' It hurts us,
and can't be good for you. Indeed, all you
women would be dead if you smoked right ; you
don't smoke right; you send all your smoke out,
chattering; it never gets into your mouth even,
and so that saves you all ; if you drew it in, as
we do, you would be dead, all of you. Who
was the first woman that smoked I often
wonder ? '

The idea of my not wearing as well as
Helen,' pursued Lady Dolly, unable to forget
the insult. ' Well, there are five-ands twenty
years between us, thank goodness, and more ! '

'I sap you won't,' said the counsellor, 'not
if you go on as you do, screaming all night
over those cards and taking quarts of chloral
because you can't sleep. Why can't you sleep?
I can.'

All the lower animals sleep like toj)s/ said
Lady Dolly. ' You seem to have been reading
medical treatises, and they haven't agreed with
you. Go and buy me a " Petit Journal." '

The counsellor went grumbling and obedient
a tall, good-looking, well-built, and very fair
Englishman, who had shot everything that was
shootable all over the known world. Lady
Dolly smiled serenely on the person who glided
to her elbow, and took the vacant place; a
slender, pale, and graceful Frenchman, the Due
de Dinant of the vieille souche.

Dear old Jack gets rather a proser,' she
thought, and she began to plan a fishing picnic
with her little Duke ; a picnic at which everybody
was to go barefooted, and dress like
peasants — real common peasants, you know, of
course, — and dredge, didn't they call it, and
poke about, and hunt for oysters. Lady Dolly

land lovely feet, and could afford to uncover
them ; very few of her rivals could do so, a fact
of which, she took cruel advantage, and from
which she derived exquisite satisfaction in clear
shallows and rock pools. ' The donkeys ! they've
cramped themselves in tight boots ! ' she said
to herself, with the scorn of a superior mind.
She always gave her miniature feet and arched
insteps their natural play, and therein displayed
a wisdom of which it must be honestly confessed,
the rest of her career gave no glimpse.

The counsellor bought the ' Petit Journal '
and a ' Figaro ' for himself, and came back ;
but she did not notice him at all. A few years
before the neglect would have made him miserable;
now it made him comfortable — such is
the ingratitude of man. He sat down and
read the ' Figaro ' with complacency, while she,
under her sunshade beamed on Gaston de
Dinant, and on four or five others of his kind ;
youngsters without youth, but, as a compensation
for the loss, with a perfect knowledge of
Judic's last song, and Dumas' last piece, of the
last new card-room scandal, and the last 

adultery; of everything that was
coming out at the theatres, and of all that was
of promise in the stables. They were not in
the least amusing in themselves, but the chatter
of the world has almost always an element of
the amusing in it, because it ruins so many
characters, ancf gossips and chuckles so merrily
and so lightly over infamy, incest, or anything
else that it thinks only fun, and deals with
such impudent personalities. At any rate they
amused Lady Dolly, and her Due de Dinant
did more ; they arranged the picnic, — without
shoes, that was indispensable, without shoes,
and in real peasant's things, else there would
be no joke — they settled their picnic, divorced
half-a-dozen of their friends, conjectured about
another half-dozen all those enormities which
modern society would blush at in the Bible but,
out of it, whispers and chuckles over very
happily; speculated about the few unhappy
unknowns who had dared to enter the magic
precincts of these very dusty sands ; wondered
with whom the Prince of Wales would die
that night, and whose that new yawl was, that

had been standing off since morning flying the
R. Y. S. flag ; and generally diverted one
another so well, that beyond an occasional
passing spasm of remembrance, Lady Dolly
had forgotten her impending trial.

I think I will go in to breakfast she said at
last, and got up. It was one o'clock, and the
sun was getting hot ; the anemone-bed began
to heave and be dispersed ; up and down the
planks the throng was thick still, the last
bathers, peignoir-entrapped, were sauntering
up from the edge of the sea. The counsellor
folded his ' Figaro,' and shut up his cigar-case ;
his was the useful but humble task to go home
before her and see that the Moselle was iced,
the prawns just netted, the strawberries just
culled, and the cutlets duly frothing in their
silver dish. The Due de Dinant sauntered by
her with no weightier duty than to gaze gently
down into her eyes, and buy a stephanotis or a
knot of roses for her bosom when they passed
the flower-baskets.

What are they all looking at ? ' said Lady
Dolly to her escort suddenly. Bodies of the picturesque

parti coloured crowd were all streaming
the same way, inland towards the sunny white
houses, whose closed green shutters were all so
attractively suggestive of the shade and rest
to be found within. But the heads of the
crowd were turning back seaward, and their
eyes and eye-glasses all gazed in the same
direction.

Was it at the Prince ? Was it at the President
? Was it the Channel fleet had hove insight?
or some swimmer drowning, or some
porpoises, or what ? No, it was a new arrival.
A new arrival was no excitement at Trouville
if it were somebody that everybody knew. Emperors
were common-place; ministers were nonentities;
marshals were monotonous; princes
were more numerous than the porpoises ; and
great dramatists, great singers, great actors,
great orators, were all there as the very sand-s
of the sea. But an arrival of somebody that
nobody knew had a certain interest, if only as
food for laughter. It seemed so queer that
there should be such people, or that existing,
they should venture there.

Who is it ? ' said Trouville, in one breath,
and the women laughed, and the men stared,
and both sexes turned round by common consent.
Something lovelier than anything there
was coming through them as a sunbeam comes
through dust. Yet it wore nothing but brown
holland ! Brown holland at Trouville maj be
worn indeed, but it is brown holland transfigured,
sublimated, canonised, borne, like Lady
Dolly's baptiste, into an apotheosis of cru
lace and floss silk embroideries, and old point
cravats, and buttons of repousse work, or
ancient rialto; brown holland raised to the
empyrean, and no more discoverable to the
ordinary naked eye than the original flesh,
fish, or fowl lying at the root of a good
cook's mayonnaise is discernible to the uneducated
palate.

But this was brown holland naked and not
ashamed, unadorned and barbaric, without any
attempt at disguise of itself, and looking wet
and wrinkled from sea-water, and very brown
indeed beside the fresh and ethereal costumes
of the ladies gathered there, that looked like

bubbles just blown in a thousand hues to float
upon the breeze.

Brown holland ! good gracious ! ' said Lady
Dolls, putting up her eyeglass. She could not
very well see the wearer of it ; there were so
many men between them ; but she could seethe
wet, clinging, tumbled skirt which came
in amongst the wonderful garments of the
sacred place, and to make this worse there
was an old Scotch plaid above the skirt, not
worn, thrown on anyhow, as she said pathetically,
long afterwards.

What a guy ! ' said Lady Dolly.
What a face ! ' said the courtiers ; but
they said it under their breath, being wise in
their generation, and praising no woman before
another.

But the brown holland came towards her,
catching in the wind, and showing feet as
perfect as her own. The brown holland
stretched two hands out to her, and a voice
cried aloud,

Mother ! don't you know me, mother ? '
Lady Dolly gave a little sharp scream, then

stood still. Her pretty face was very blank,
her rosy small mouth was parted in amaze and
disgust.

In that dress ! ' she gasped, when the
position became clear to her and her senses
returned.

But the brown holland was clinging in a
wild and joyous kind of horrible, barbarous
way all about her, as it seemed, and the old
Scotch plaid was pressing itself against her
baptiste skirts.

Oh, mother ! how lovely you are ! Not
changed in the very least ! Don't you know me.
Oh dear ! don't you know me ? I am Yere.'

Lady Dolly was a sweet-tempered woman
by nature, and only made fretful occasionally
by maids' contretemps, debts, husbands, and
other disagreeable accompaniments of life. But,
at this moment, she had no other sense than
that of rage. She could have struck her sunshade
furiously at all creation ; she could have
fainted, only the situation would have been
rendered more ridiculous still if she had, and
that consciousness sustained her; the sands.

and the planks, and the sea, and the sun, all
went round her in a whirl of wrath. She could
hear all her lovers, and friends, and rivals, and
enemies tittering ; and Princess Helene Olgar-
ouski, who was at her shoulder, said in the
pleasantness way —

Is that your little daughter, dear ? Why
she is quite a woman ! A new beauty for
Monseigneur.'

Lady Dolly could have slain her hundreds
in that moment, had her sunshade but been of
steel. To be made ridiculous ! There is no
more disastrous destiny under the sun.

The brown holland had ceased to cling
about her, finding itself repulsed; the Scotch
plaid had fallen down on the plank; there
were two brilliant and wistful eyes regarding
her from above, and one hand still stretched
out shyly.

I am Vere ! * said a voice in which tears
trembled and held a struggle with pride.

I see you are ! ' said Lady Dolly with asperity.
' What on earth made you come in this —
this — indecent way for — without even dressing !
VOL. I.

I expected you at night. Is that Fraulem
Schroder ? She should be ashamed of herself.'

I see no shame, Miladi,' retorted m guttural
tones an injured German, ' in that a long-absent
and much-loving daughter should be
breathless to flee to embrace the one to whom
she owes her being '

Hold your tongue ! ' said Lady Dolly
angrily. Fraulein Schroder wore a green veil
and blue spectacles, and was not beautiful to
the eye, and was grizzle-headed; and the
friends and lovers, and courtiers, and enemies,
were laughing uncontrollably.

What an angel of loveliness ! But a
woman ; quite a woman. She must be twenty
at least, my dear ? ' said Princess Helene, who
always said the pleasantness thing she could
think of at any time.

Yere is sixteen,' said Lady Dolly sharply,
much ruffled, seeing angrily that the girl's head
in its sunburnt sailor's hat, bound with a black
ribbon, was nearly a foot higher than her own,
hung down, though it now was, like a rose in
the rain.

There was a person coming up from his
mile swim in the sea, with the burning-like
folds cast about him more gracefully than other
men were able ever to cast theirs.

How do you manage to get so much
grace out of a dozen yards of bath towelling,
Correze ? ' asked an Englishman who was with
him.

C^est mon metier a moi cVetre ^^oseur,' said
the other, paraphrasing the famous saying of
Joseph the Second.

Ah, no,' said the Englishman, ' you never
do 2)oser ; that is the secret of the charm of
the thing. I feel like a fool in these spacliUes
and swathings ; but you — you look as if you
had just come up from a sacred river of the
East, and are worthy to sing strophes to a
JSTourmahal.'

Encore unefois — mon metier,' said the other,
casting some of the linen folds over his head,
which was exceedingly handsome, and almost
line for line like the young Sebastian of Del
Sarto. At that moment he saw the little scene
going on between Lady Dolly and her daughter,

♦

and watched it from a distance with much
amusement.

What an exquisite face that child has, —
that lovely tint like the wild white rose, there
is nothing like it. It makes all the women
with colour look vulgar,' he said, after a prolonged
gaze through a friend's field glass.
*Who is she do you say? Miladi Dolly's
daughter ? Is it possible ? I thought Miladi
was made herself yesterday in Giroux's shop,
and was kept in a wadded box when her
mechanism was not wound up. Surely, it is
impossible Dolly can ever have stooped to such
homely inartificial thing as maternity. You
must be mistaken.'

No. In remote ages she married a cousin.
The white wild rose is the result.'

A charming result. A child only, but an
exquisite child. It is a pity we are in this
costume, or we would go and be presented ;
though Miladi would not be grateful, to judge
by her face now. Poor little Dolly ! It is hard
to have a daughter — and a daughter that comes
to Trouville in August**

Then lie who was a figure of grace even in
white towelling, and had a face like Saint
Sebastian, handed the field-glass back to his
friend, and went to his hotel to dress.

Meanwhile Lady Dolly was saying irritably
: ' Go home to my house, Vere, — the
Chalet Ludoff. Of course you ought to
have gone there first ; why didn't jow go
there first and dress ? None but an idiot
would ever have allowed you to do it. The
idea ! Walk on, pray— and as quickly as you
can.'

We went to the house, but they said you
were on the beach, and so, mother '

'spray don't call me mother in that way.
It makes one feel like What's-her-name in the
Trovatore," ' said Lady Dolly, with a little
laugh, that was very fretful. ' And be kind
enough not to stand here and stare ; everybody
is listening.'

'What for should they not listen?' said
Fraulein Schroder stoutly. 'Can there be in
nature a sweeter, more soul-inspiring, and of-heavens
ways-blessed-emotion than the out-coming

of filial love and the spontaneous flow
of '

'Enbbisli! ' said Lady Dolly. 'Vere, oblige
me by walking in ; I shall be with you in a
moment at the house. You'll find Jack there.
You remember Jack ? '

^ What an angel ! anyone would give her
twenty years at least,' said Princess Helene
again. ' But your German in her blue glasses,
she is a drSlesse '

A very clever woman ; dreadfully blue and
conscientious, and all that is intolerable; the
old duchess found her for me,' replied Lady
Dolly, still half willing to faint, and half
inclined to cry, and wholly in that state of
irritation which Fuseli was wont to say made
swearing delicious.

I always fancied — so stupid of me ! — that
your Yere was quite a little child, always at the
Sacre Coeur,' continued the Princess musingly,
with her sweetest emile.

I wish to heaven we had a Sacre Coeur,'
said Lady Dolly devoutly. 'We wretched
English people have nothing half so sensible ;

you know that, Helene, as well as I do. Vere
is tall and very like lier poor father and the old
Duke.'

But Vere — surely that is not the name of a
girl?'

It was her father's. That was the old
Duchess's doing too. Of course one will call
her Vera. Well, au revoir ma tres chere, a ce soir'

^ With nods and backs and wreathed smiles,'
and many good-days and pretty words, poor
Lady Dolly got away from her friends and
acquaintances, and had the common luxury of
hearing them all begin laughing again as soon
as they imagined she had got out of earshot.
Her young courtiers accompanied her, of course,
but she dismissed them on the doorstep.

I can't think of anything but my child
to-day ! ' she said very charmingly. ' So glad
you think her nice-looking. When she is

dressed, you know ' and she disappeared into

her own house with the phrase unfinished,
leaving all it suggested to her hearers.

Where's Yere?' she said sharply to her
counsellor, entering the breakfast-room, before

the empty stove of which, from the sheer fireplace
club-room habit of his race, that person
stood smoking.

Gone to her room,' he answered. ' You've
made her cry. You were nasty, weren't you ? '

I was furious ! Who wouldn't have been ?
l.^hat vile dress ! that abominable old woman !
And kissing me too — me — on the beach ! '

Her companion smiled grimly.

^ She couldn't tell that one mustn't touch
you when you're "done up." You didn't do
up so much three years ago. She'll soon learn,
never fear.'

You grow quite horribly rude, Jack.'

He smoked serenely,

And quite too odiously coarse.'

He continued to smoke.

She often abused him, but she never could
do without him ; and he was aware of that.

^ And what a height she is ! and what her
gowns will cost ! and she must come out soon — ■
and that horrid Helene ! ' sobbed Lady Dolly,
fairly bursting into tears. She had been so
gay and comfortable at Trouville^ and now it

was all over. What comfort could there be with
a girl nearly six feet high, that looked twenty
years old when she was sixteen, and who called
her ' Mother ! '

Don't make a fuss,' said the counsellor
from the stove. * She's very handsome, awfully
pretty, you'll marry her in no time, and be just
as larky as you were before. Don't cry, there's
a dear little soul. Look here, the cutlets are
getting cold, and there's all these mullets
steaming away for nothing. Come and eat, and
the thing won't seem so terrible.'

Being versed in the ways of consolations, he
opened a bottle of Moselle with an inviting
rush of sound, and let the golden stream foam
itself softly over a lump of ice in a glass. Lady
Dolly looked up dried her eyes, and sat down
at the table.

^ Vere must be hungry, surely,' she said, with
a sudden remembrance, twenty minutes later,
eating her last morsel of a truffled timidly.

The counsellor smiled grimly.

It's rather late to think about that ; I sent
her her breakfast before you came in,'

Dear me ! how very fatherly of you ! '

The counsellor laughed. *I feel like her
father, I assure you.'

Lady Dolly coloured, and lit a cigarette.
She felt that she would not digest her breakfast.
Henceforth there would be two bills to
pay — the interest of them at any rate — at all
the great tailors' and milliners' houses in Paris
and London ; she had an uneasy sense that to
whirl in and out the mazes of the cotillons, or
smoke your cigarette on the smooth lawns
of shooting clubs, vis-a-vis with your own
daughter, was a position, in the main, rather
ridiculous ; and she had still an easier conviction
that the girl in the brown holland
would not be taught in a moment to comprehend
the necessity for the existence of Jack
and the rest.

That horrid old duchess ! ' she murmured,
sinking to sleep with the last atom of her
cigarette crumbling itself away on the open
page of a French novel. For it was the
duchess who had sent her Yere.

Lady Dorothy Vakderdecken, who was
Lady Dolly to everybody, down to the very
"boys that ran after her carriage in the streets,
was the seventh daughter of a very poor peer,
the Earl of Caterham, who was a clever politician,
bnt always in a chronic state of financial
embarassment. Lady Dolly had made a very
silly love-match with her own cousin, Yere
Herbert, a younger son of her uncle the Duke
of Mull and Cantire, when she was only seventeen,
and he had just left Oxford and entered
the Church. But Vere Herbert had only lived
long enough for her to begin to get very tired of
his country parsonage in the wilds of the Devonshire

moors, and to be left before she was twenty
with a miserable pittance for her portion, and
a little daughter twelve months old to plague
her farther. Lady Dolly cried terribly for a
fortnight, and thought she cried for love, when
she only cried for worry. In another fortnight
or so she had ceased to cry, had found out that
crape brightened her pretty tea-rose skin, had
discarded her baby to the care of her aunt and
mother-in-law, the old and austere Duchess of
Mull, and had gone for her health with her
own gay little mother, the Countess of Cater-ham,
to the south of France. In the south of
France Lady Doily forgot that she had ever
cried at all ; and in a year's time from the loss
of Vere Herbert had married herself again to a
Mr. Vanderdecken, an Englishman of Dutch
extraction, a rich man, of no remarkable
lineage, a financier, a contractor, a politician,
a very restless creature, always rushing about
alone, and never asking any questions — which
suited her. On the other hand it suited him
to ally himself with a score of great families,
and obtain a lovely and high-born wife ; it was

one of those marriages which everybody calls
so sensible, so suitable, so very nice! Quite
unlike the marriage with poor Vere Herbert,
which everybody had screamed at, as they had
not made up five hundred a year in income, or
forty-five years in age, between them.

Lady Dolly and Mr. Vanderdecken did not
perhaps find it so perfectly well assorted when
they had had a little of it ; she thought him
stingy, he thought her frivolous, but they did
not tell anybody else so, and so everybody
always said that the marriage was very nice.
They were always seen in the Bois and the Park
together, and always kept house together three
months every spring in London ; they went to
country houses together, and certainly dined
out together at least a dozen times every
season : nothing could be nicer. Lady Dolly took
care of that.

She thought him a great bore, a great
screw ; she never had enough money by half,
and he was sometimes very nasty about cheques.
But he was not troublesome about anything
else, and was generally head over ears in some

wonderful loan, or contract, or subsidy, which
entailed distant journeys, and absorbed him
entirely ; so that, on the whole, she was content
and enjoyed herself.

This morning, however, she had gone down
to the shore not indeed fully anticipating such
a blow as had fallen upon her, but ruffled, disgusted,
and nervous, conscious that her daughter
was travelling towards her, and furious with
the person she termed a ' horrid old cat.'

The old cat was the now dowager Duchess
of Mull, who for fifteen years had kept safe in
Northumbria the daughter of poor Yere, and
now had hurled her like a cannon-ball at Lady
Dolly's head in this hideous, abominable, unforeseen
manner, straight on the sands of
Trouville, in sight of that snake in angel's
guise, the Princesse Helene Olgarouski !

Lady Dolly, who never would allow that
she gave up lier maternal rights, though she
would never be bored with maternal responsibilities,
had quarrelled for the nine-hundredth
time (by post) with the Duchess of Mull;
quarrelled desperately, impudently, irrevocably,

quarrelled once too often; and the result of
the quarrel had been the instant despatch of
her daughter to Trouville, with the duchess's
declaration that she could struggle for the
soul of her poor son's child no longer, and that
come what would, she consigned Vere to her
mother then and for ever more.

The horrid woman will be howling for the
child again in a week's time,' thought Lady
Dolly, * but she has done it to spite me, and
I'll keep the child to spite her. That's only
fair.'

The duchess had taken her at her word,
that was all ; but then, indeed, there are few
things more spiteful that one can do to anybody
than to take them at their word. Lady Dolly
had been perplexed, irritated, and very angry
with herself for having written all that rubbish
about suffering from the unnatural deprivation
of her only child's society ; rubbish which had
brought this stroke of retribution on her
head.

She had pulled her blonde pe^ruque all awry
in her vexation ; she did not want ih^t perruqiie

at all, for her own hair was thick and pretty,
but she covered it up and wore the 'perruque
because it was the fashion to do so.

Lady Dolly had always been, and was very
pretty : she had lovely large eyes, and the
tiniest mouth, and a complexion which did not
want all the pains she bestowed on it ; when
she had not the jperruque on, she had dark silky
hair all tumbled about over her eyebrows in a
disarray that cost her maid two hours to
compose ; and her eyebrows themselves were
drawn beautifully in two fine, dark, slender
lines by a pencil that supplied the one defect of
Nature. When she was seventeen, at the
rectory, amongst the rosebuds on the lawn, she
had been a rosebud herself; now she was a
Dresden statuette ; the statuette was the more
finished and brilliant beauty of the two, and
never seemed the worse for wear. This is the
advantage of artificial over natural loveliness ;
the latter will alter with health or feeling, the
former never ; it is always the same, unless
you come in on it at its toilette, or see it when
it is very ill.

Lady Dolly this morning woke up prematurely
from her sleep and fancied she was in.
the old parsonage gardens on the lawn, amongst
the roses in Devonshire, with poor Vere's pale
handsome face looking down so tenderly on
hers. She felt a mist before her eyes, a tightness
at her throat ; a vague and worried pain
all over her. ' It is the prawns ! ' she said to
herself, * I will never smoke after prawns
again.'

She was all alone ; the counsellor had gone
to his schooner, other counsellors were at their
hotels, it was an hour when everything except
Englishmen and dogs were indoors. She
rose, shook her muslin breakfast-wrapper
about her impatiently, and went to see her
daughter.

He uses to be so fond of me, poor fellow ! *
she thought. Such a pure fond passion then
amongst the roses by the sea. It had all been
very silly, and he had used to bore her dreadfully
with Keble, and his namesake, George of
holy memory, and that old proser Thomas
a-Kempis ; but still it had been a different

VOL. I. D

thing to all these other loves. He lay in his
grave there by the Atlantic amongst the Devon
roses, and she had had no memory of him for
many a year, and when he had been alive, she
had thought the church and the old women,
and the saints, and the flannel, and the choral
services, and the matins and vesper-nonsense,
all so tiresome ; but still he had loved her. Of
course they all adored her now, heaps of them
but his love had been a different thing to
theirs. And somehow Lady Dolly felt a tinge
and twinge of shame.

Poor Vere,' she murmured to herself tenderly
; and so went to see his daughter, who
had been called after him by that absurd old
woman, the Duchess of Mull, with whom Lady
Dolly in her dual relation of niece and taught
had always waged a fierce undying
war : a war in which she had now got the
worst of it,

May I come in, dear ? ' she said at the
bed-chamber door. She felt almost nervous.
It was very absurd, but why vrould the girl
have her dead father's eves ?

The girl opened the door and stood silent.

'A beautiful creature. They are quite
right,' thought Lady Dolly, now that her brain
was no longer filled with the dreadful rumpled
brown holland, and the smiling face of Princess
Helene. The girl was in a white wrapper like
her own, only without any lace, and any of the
ribbons that adorned Lady Dolly at all points,
as tassels a Woman horse at Carnival. Lady
Dolly was too lovely herself, and also far too
contented with herself to feel any jealousy;
but she looked at her daughter critically, as
she would have looked at a young untried
actress on the boards of the Odeon. 'Quite
another style to me, that is fortunate,' she
thought as she looked. 'Like Vere — very —
quite extraordinarily like Yere — only handsomer
still.'

Then she kissed her daughter very prettily
on both cheeks, and with effusion embraced
her, much as she embraced Princess Helene or
anybody else that she hated.

You took me by surprise to-day, love,' she
said with a little accent of apology, ^ and

D2

you know I do so detest scenes. Pray try and
remember that.'

Scenes ? ' said Vere. ' Please what are
they?'

Scenes ? ' said Lady Dolly, kissing her
once more, and a little puzzled as everybody
is, who is suddenly asked to define a familiar
word. ' Scenes ? Well, dear me, scenes are —
scenes. Anything, you know, that makes a
fuss, that looks silly, that sets people laughing ;
don't you understand ? Anything done before
people, you know : it is vulgar.'

I think I understand,' said Vere Herbert.
She was a very lovely girl, and despite her
height still looked a child. Her small head
was perfectly poised on a slender neck, and her
face, quite colourless, with a complexion like
the leaf of a white rose, had perfect features,
straight, delicate, and noble ; her fair hair was
cut square over her brows, and loosely knotted
behind ; she had a beautiful serious mouth, not
so small as her mother's, and serene eyes, grey
as night, contemplative, yet wistful.

She was calm and still. She had cried as

if her heart would break, but she would have
died rather than let her mother guess it. She
had been what the French call refugee sur
elle-meme j and the process is chilling.

Have you all you want ? ' said Lady Dolly,
casting a hasty glance round the room. * You
know I didn't expect you, dear; not in the
least.'

Surely my grandmother wrote ? '

'Your grandmother telegraphed that you.
had started ; just like her ! Of course I wished
to have you here, and meant to do so, but not
all in a moment.'

The horrid old woman will be howling for
the child back again in three weeks' time,'
thought Lady Dolly once more. ' But she has
done it to spite me : the old cat ! '

Are you sorry to come to me, love ? ' she
said sweetly meanwhile, drawing Vere down
beside her on a couch.

I was very glad,' answered Yere.

Lady Dolly discreetly omitted to notice the
past tense. ' Ah, no doubt, very dear of you !
It is three years since I saw you ; for those few

days at Bulmer hardly count. Bulmer is
terribly dull, isn't it ? '

I suppose it is dull ; I was not so. If
grand mamma had not been so often '

Cross as two sticks, you mean laughed
Lady Dolly. ' Oh, I know her, my dear : the
most disagreeable person that ever lived. The
dear old duke was so nice and so handsome ;
but you hardly remember him, of course. Your
grand mamma is a cat, dear — a cat, positively a
cat ! We will not talk about her. And how
she has dressed you ! It is quite wicked to
dress a girl like that, it does her taste so
much harm. You are very handsome, Yere.'

Yes ? I am like my father they say.'

Very.'

Lady Dolly felt the mist over her eyes again,
and this time knew it was not the prawns. She
saw the sunny lawn in Devon, and the roses,
and the little large-eyed child at her breast.
Heavens ! what a long way away all that time
seemed.

She gazed intently at Yere with a musing
pathetic tenderness that moved the girl, and

made her tremble and glow, because at last
this lovely mother of hers seemed to feel.
Lady Dolly's gaze grew graver and graver,
more and more introspective.

^ She is thinking of the past and of my
father thought the girl tenderly', and her
young heart swelled with reverent sympathy.
She did not dare to break her mother's silence.

Yere ! ' said Lady Dolly dreamily, at
length, ^ I am trying to think what one can do
to get you decent clothes. My maid must run
up something for you to wear by tomorrow.
It is a pity to keep you shut up all this
beautiful weather, and a little life will do you
good after that prison at Bulmer. I am sure
those three days I was last there I thought 1
should have yawned till I broke my neck, I
did indeed, dear. She would hardly let me
have breakfast in my own room, and she hould
dine at six! — six! But she was never like
anybody else ; when even the duke was alive
she was the most obstinate, humdrum, nasty
old scratch-cat in the county. Such ideas too !
Sh wa a sort of Wesley in petticoats, and. by

the way, her gowns were never long enough for
her. But I was saying, dear, I will have
Adrienne run up something for you directly.
She is clever. I never let a maid male a dress.
It is absurd. You might as well want Eubin-
stein to make the violin he plays on. If she is
inferior, she will make you look a dowdy. If
she is a really good maid she will not make,
she will arrange, what your tailor has made,
and perfect it — nothing more. But still, for
you, Adrienne will go out of her way for once.
She shall combine a few little things, and she
can get a girl to sew them for her. Something
to go out in they really must manage for
tomorrow. You shall have brown holland if
you are so fond of it, dear, but you shall see
what brown holland can look like with Adrienne.'
Yere sat silent.

By the bye,' said her mother vivaciously,
^ didn't you bring a maid ? Positively, not a
maid?'

^ Granada sent Keziah : she has always
done very well for me.'

Keziah ! ' echoed Lady Dolly with a shudder.

^ How exactly it is like your grandmother to
give you a woman called Keziah ! That horrible
Fraulein one might dismiss too, don't you think?
You are old enough to do without her, and you
shall have a nice French maid ; Adrienne will
soon find one.'

The girl's eyes dilated with fear.

Oh ! pray do not send away the Fraulein !
We are now in the conic sections.'

The what ? ' said Lady Dolly.

'I mean I could not go on in science or
mathematics without her, and besides, she is so
good.'

Mathematics ! science ! why, what can you
want to make yourself hateful for, like a Girton
College guy? '

I want to know things ; pray do not send
away the Fraulein.'

Lady Dolly, who was at heart very good-natured
when her own comfort was not too much
interfered with, patted her cheek and laughed.

'What should sou want to know? — know
how to dress, how to curtsey, how to look your
best; that is all you want to know. Believe me,

men will ask nothing more of you. As for your
hideous Schroder, I think her the most odious
person in existence, except your grandmother.
But if her blue spectacles comfort you, keep
her at present. Of course you will want somebody
to be with you a good deal : I can't be ;
and I suppose you'll have to stay with me now.
You may be seen here a little, and wherever I
go in autumn ; then you can come out in Pari
in the winter, and be presented next spring. I
shall do it to spite your grandmother, who has
behaved disgracefully to me — disgracefully ! I
believe she'd be capable of coming up to London
to present you herself, though she's never set
foot there for fifteen years ! '

Yere was silent.

What do you like best ? ' said her mother
suddenly. Something in the girl worried her:
she could not have said what it was.

Yere lifted her great eyes dreamily.

^ Greek,' she answered.

Greek I a horse ? a pony 9 a dog ? '

'A language,' said Yere.

Of course (Irppk is a language : T know

that said her mother irritably. 'But of course
I thought you meant something* natural, sensible
; some pet of some kind. And what do
you like best after that, pray ? '

^ Music — Greek is like music'

Oh dear me ! ' sighed Lady Dolly.

^I can ride; I am fond of riding,' added
Yere ; ' and I can shoot, and row, and sail, and
steer a boat. The keepers taught me.'

Well, that sort of thing goes down rather,
now that they walk with the guns, though I'm
quite sure men wish them anywhere all the
Awhile,' said Lady Dolly, somewhat vaguely.
Only you must be masculine with it, and
slangy, and you don't seem to me to be that in
the least. Do you know, Vere — it is a horrible
thing to say — but I am dreadfully afraid you
will be just the old-fashioned, prudish, open-air,
touch-me-not Englishwoman ! I am indeed.
Now you know that won't answer
anywhere, nowadays.

Answer — what ? '

Don't take my words up like that, it is
rude. I mean, you know, that kind of style is

gone out altogether, pleases nobody ; men hate
it. The only women that please nowadays are
Russians and Americans. Why P Because in
their totally different ways they neither of them
care one fig what they do if only it please them
to do it. They are all chic you know. Now
you haven't a bit of chic ; you look like a
creature out of Burne Jones's things, don't
you know, only more — more — religious-looking.
You really look as if you were studying your
Bible every minute ; it is most extraordinary !

Her father iijould read me Keble and
Kempis before she was born,' thought Lady
Dolly angrily, her wrath rising against the deadman
for the psychological inconsistencies in
her daughter ; a daughter she would have been
a million times better without at any time.

Well, then, my love,' she said suddenly ;
you shall ride and you shall swim ; that will
certainly help you better than your Greek and
your conic sessions, whatever they may be, they
sound like something about magistrates, perhaps
they have taught you law as well ? '

May I swim here ? ' asked Vere.

Of course ; it's the thing to do. Can you
dive?'

Oh yes ! I am used to the water.'

Very well, then. But wait ; you can't
have any bathing-dress ? '

Yes. I brought it. Would you wish to
see it ? Keziah '

Keziah was bidden to seek for and brins:
out the bathing-dress, and after a little delay
did so.

Lady Dolly looked. Gradually an expression
of horror, such as is depicted on the faces of
those who are supposed to see ghosts, spread
itself over her countenance and seemed to
change it to stone.

That thing ! ' she gasped.

What she saw was the long indigo-coloured
linen gown — high to the throat and down to
the feet — of the uneducated British bather,
whose mind has not been opened by the sweetness
and light of continental shores.

That thing ! ' gasped Lady Dolly.

What is the matter with it ? ' said Yere,
timidly and perplexed

Matter ? It is indecent ! '

Indecent ? ' Yere coloured all over the
white rose-leaf beauty of her face.

Indecent reiterated Lady Dolly. ' If it
isn't worse ! Good gracious ! It must have
been worn at the deluge. The very children
would stone you! Of course I knew you
couldn't have any decent dress. You shall
have one like mine made tomorrow, and then
you can kick about as you like. Blue and
white or blue and pink. You shall see mine.'

She rang, and sent one of her maids for one
of her bathing costumes, which were many and
of all hues.

Yere looked at the brilliant object dien it
arrived, puzzled and troubled by it. She could
not understand it. It appeared to be cut off
at the shoulders and the knees.

^ It is like v^hat the circus-riders wear,' she
said, with a deep breath.

Well, it is, now you name it,' said Lady
Dolly amused, ' You shall have one tomorrow.'

Yere's face crimsoned.

But what covers one's legs and arms ? '

Nothing ! what a little sills you are. I
suppose you have nothing the matter with
them, have you ? no mark, or twist, or anything
? I don't remember any when you were
little. '!'ou were thought an extraordinarily
well-made baby.'

Might one then go naked provided only
one had no mark or twist? Vere wondered,
and wondered at the world into which she
had strayed.

I would never wear a costume like that,'
she said quietly after a little pause.

You will wear what I tell you,' said her
sweet little mother sharply ; ^ and for goodness'
sake, child, don't be a prude whatever you
are. Prudes belong to JSToah's Ark, like your
bathing-gown.'

Vere was silent.

Is Mr. Vanderdecken here ? ' she asked at
length, to change the theme, and, finding her
mother did not speak again, who, indeed, was
busy, thinking what her clothes were likely to
cost, and also whether she would arrange a
marriage for her with the young Due de Tarn-your,

son of the Prince de Chambre. The best
alliance she could think of at the minute — but
then the poor child had no dot,

Mr. Vanderdecken ? ' said Lady Dolly
waking to fact. ' Oh, he is on the sea going
somewhere. He is always going somewhere ;
it is Java or Japan, or Jupiter; something
with a J. He makes his money in that sort
of way, you knov/. I never understand it
myself. Whenever people want money he goes,
and he makes it because the people he goes to
haven't got any ; isn't it queer ? Come here.
Do you know, Yere, you are very pretty ? You
will be very handsome. Kiss me again, dear.'

Yere did so, learning, by a kind of intuition,
that she must touch her mother without injuring
the artistic work of the maids and the
little secrets.' Then she stood silent and
passive.

She is an uncomfortable girl,' thought
Lady Dolly once more. 'And, dear me, so like
poor Yere ! What a tall creature you are getting,'
she said aloud. ' You will be married in
another year.'

Oh no ! ' said Yere with a glance of alarm.

You unnatural child ! How on earth
would you like to live if you don't want to be
married ? '

With the Fraulein in the country.'

All your life ! And die an old maid ? '

I should not mind.'

Lady Dolly laughed, but it was with a sort
of shock and shudder, as an orthodox person
laughs when they hear what is amusing but
irreverent.

Why do you say such things ? ' she said
impatiently. ' They are nonsense, and you
don't mean them.'

I mean them — quite.'

Nonsense ! ' said Lady Dolly, who never
discussed with anybody, finding asseveration
answer all purposes very much better ; as, indeed,
it does in most cases. ' Well, good-bye
my love ; you want to rest, and you can't go
out till you have something to wear, and I
have an immense deal to do. Good-bye ; you
are very pretty ! '

Who was that gentleman I saw ? ' asked

VOL. I. B

Vere, as her mother rose and kissed her once
more on her silky fair hair. ' Is he any relation
of papa's ? He was very kind.'

Lady Dolly coloured ever so little.

Oh ! that's Jack. Surely you remember
seeing Jack three years ago at Homburg, when
you came out to meet me there ? '

Is he a relation of ours ? '

^ No ; not a relation exactly ; only a friend.'

And has he no name but Jack ? '

Of course. Don't say silly things. He is
Lord Jura, Lord Shetland's son. He is in the
Guards. A very old acquaintance, dear — recollects
you as a baby.'

^ A friend of my father's then ? '

swell, no dear, not quite. Not quite sofar
back as that. Certainly he may have fagged
for poor Vere at Eton perhaps, but I doubt it.
Good-bye, darling. I will send you Adrienne.
You may put yourself in her hands blindly.
She has perfect taste.'

Then Lady Dolly opened the door, and
escaped.

Yere Herbert was left to herself. She was

not tired ; lie was strong and healthful, for all
the Avhite rose paleness of her fair shin ; and a
twelve hours' tossing on the sea, and a day or
two's rumbling on the rail, had no power to
fatigue her. Her grandmother, though a humdrum
and a cat, according to Lady Dolly, had
sundry old-fashioned notions from which the
girl had benefitted both in body and mind,
and the fresh strong air of Buhner Chase — a
breezy old forest place on the Northumberland
seashore, where the morose old duchess found
a dower house to her taste — had braced her
physically, as study and the absence of any sort
of excitement had done mentally, and made
her as unlike her mother as anything female
could have been. The Duchess of Mull was
miserly, cross-tempered, and old-fashioned in
her ways and in her prejudices, but she was an
upright woman, a gentlewoman, and no fool,
.as she would say herself. She had been harsh
with the girl, but she had loved her and been
just to her, and Yere had spent her life at
Bulmer Chase not unhappily, varied only by an
occasional visit to Lady Holy, who had always

E 2

Ss>nonum<«s

seemed to the child something too bright and
fair to be mortal, and to have an enchanted
existence, where camels and cosaques rained,
and music was always heard, and the sun shone
all day long.

She was all alone. The Fraulein was
asleep in the next room. The maid did not
come. The girl kneeled down by the window-seat
and looked out through one of the chinks
oi the blinds. It was late afternoon by the
sun ; the human butterflies were beginning to
come out again. Looking up and down she
saw the whole sunshiny coast, and the dancing
water that was boisterous enough to be pretty
and to swell the canvas of the yachts standing
off the shore.

How bright it all looks ! ' she thought,
with a little sigh ; the salt fresh smell did her
good, and Buhner, amidst its slowly budding
woods and dreary moors, and long dark
winters, had been anything but bright. Yet
she felt very unhappy and lonely. Her mother
seemed a great deal farther away than she had
done when Vere had sat dreaming about heron

the side of the rough feathered hills, with
the herons calling across from one marshy pool
to another.

She leaned against the green blind and
ceased to see the sea and the sky, the beach
and the butterflies, for a little while, her tears
were so full under her lashes, and she did her
best to keep them back. She was full of pain
because her mother did ,not care for her ; but,
indeed, why should she care? said Vere to
herself; they had been so little together.

She looked, almost without seeing it at
first, at the picture underneath her ; the stream,
which gradually swelled and grew larger, of
beautifully-dressed fairy-like women, whose
laughter every now and then echoed up to her.
It was one unbroken current of harmonious
colour, rolled out like a brilliant riband on
the fawn-coloured sand against the azure
sea.

And have they all nothing to do but to
enjoy themselves ? ' thought Yere. It seemed
so. If Black Care were anywhere at Trouville,
as it was everywhere else in the world, it took

pains to wear a face like the rest and read its
Figaro.'

She heard the door underneath unclose, and
from underneath the green verandah she saw
her mother saunter out. Three other ladies
were with her and half a dozen men. The
were talking and laughing all at once, no one
waiting to be listened to or seeming to expect
it ; the walked across the beach and sat down.
They put up gorgeous sunshades and outspread
huge fans •. they were all twitter, laughter,
colour, mirth.

All this going to and fro of gay people, the
patter of feet and flutter of petticoats, amused
the girl to watch almost as much as if she had
been amidst it. There were such a sparkle of
sea, such a radiance of sunshine, such a rainbow
of colour, that though it would have composed
ill for a landscape, it made a pretty
panorama.

Vere watched it, conjecturing in a youthful
fanciful ignorant way all kinds of things about
the persons who seemed so happy there.
When she had gazed for about twenty minutes,
making her eyes ache and getting tired, one of

them especially attracted her attention by the
way in which people all turned after him as he
passed, and the delight that his greeting
appeared to cause those with whom he
lingered. He was a man of such remarkable
personal beauty that this alone might have
been reason'enouo^h for the eao-er welcome of
the listless ladies ; but there was even a greater
charm in his perfect grace of movement and
vivacity and airy ease : he stayed little time
with any one; but wherever he loitered a
moment appeared to be the centre of all
smiles. She did not know that he was her
admirer of the noonday, who had looked at her
as he had sauntered along in his bathing
shroud and his white shoes ; but she watched
the easy graceful attitudes of him with interest
as he cast himself down on the sand, leaning
on his elbow, by a group of fair women.

Can you tell me who that gentleman is ? '
she asked of her mother's head-maid, the
inimitable Adrienne.

Adrienne looked and smiled,

^ Oh ! that is M. de Correze.'

Correze ! ' Vere's eyes opened iu a

blaze of eager wonder, and the colour rose
in her pale cheeks. ' Correze ! Are you
sure ? '

But yes : I am quite sure,' laughed Adrienne.
' Does mademoiselle feel emotion at the
sight of him? She is only like all others of
her sex. Ah ! le head Correze / '

I have never heard him sing,' said Vere,
very low, as if she spoke of some religious
thing ; ' but I would give anything, anything,
to do so. And the music he composes himself
is beautiful. There is one " Messe de
Minuit '"

Mademoiselle will hear him often enough
when she is once in the world,' said Adrienne,
good-naturedly. ^ Ah ! when she shall see him
in "Faust" that will be an era in her life.
But it is not his singing that makes the great
ladies rave of him ; it is his charm. Oh, quel
philtre cf amour I '

And Adrienne quite sighed with despair,
and then laughed.

Vere coloured a little; Keziah did not
discourse about men being love-philtres.

Measure me for my clothes ; I am tired,'
she said with a childish coldness and dignity,
turning away from the window.

I am entirely at mademoiselle's service,' said
Adrienne with answering dignity. ' Whoever
has had the honour to clothe mademoiselle has
been strangely neglectful of her highest interests.'


'^ My clothes my highest interest ! I never
think about them ! '

That is very sad. They are really barbaric.
If Mademoiselle could behold herself '

They are useful,' said Yere coldly; 'that
is all that is necessary.'

Adrienne was respectfully silent, but she
shuddered as if she had heard a blasphemy.
She could not comprehend how the young
barbarian could have been brought up by a
duchess. Adrienne had never been to Bulmer,
and had never seen Her Grace of Mull, with
her silver spectacles, her leather boots, her
tweed clothes, her farm-ledgers, her studbooks,
and her ever-open Bible.

Measure me quickly,' said Vere. She had

lowered the green jalousies, and would not
look out any more. Yet she felt happier. She
missed dark, old, misty Bulmer with its oak-woods
by the ocean ; yet this little gay room,
with its pretty cretonne, cream-coloured, with
pale pink roses, its gilded mirrors, its rose
china, its white muslin, was certainly brighter
and sunnier, and who could tell but what her
mother would grow to love her some day ?

At nine o'clock Lady Dolly, considering
herself a martyr to mater nit}^, ran into the
little room where Yere was at tea with her
governess ; Lady Dolly was arrayed for the
evening sauterie at the Casino, and was in great
haste to be gone.

'Have you everything you like, darling?'
she asked, pulling on her pearl-hued Crispin,
Did you have a nice little dinner ? Yes ?
Quite sure ? Has Adrienne been to you ? An
excellent creature ; perfect taste. Dear me,
what a pity ! — you might have come and
jumped about to-night if you had had only
something to wear. Of course you like
dancing ? '

I dislike it very much.'

Dear me ! Ali well ! you won't say so
after a cotillon or two. You shall have a
cotillon that Zouroff leads : there is nobody
better. Good night, my sweet Vera. Mind,
I shall always call you Vera. It sounds so
Eussian and nice, and is much prettier than
Yere.'

I do not think so, mother, and I am not
Russian.'

You are very contradictory and opinionated;
much too opinionated for a girl. It is
horrid in a girl to have opinions. Fraulein,
how could you let her have opinions ? Goodnight,
dear. I shall hardly see you tomorrow,
if at all. We shall be cruising about in Jack's
yacht, and we shall start very early. The
Grand Duchess will go out with us. She is
great fun, only she does get in such a rage
when she loses at play, that it is horrible to
see. So sorry you must be shut up, my poor
Yera ! '

May I not go out just for a walk ? '

Well, I don't know — yes, really, I think

you might; if it's very early mind, and you
keep out of everybody's sight. Pray take care
not a soul sees you.'

Is not this better, then ? ' murmured the
offender, glancing down on a white serge frock,
which she had put on in the hope that it might
please. It was a simple braided dress with a
plain silver belt, and was really unobjectionable.


Lady Dolly scanned the garment with a
critical air and a parti pris. Certainly it might
have done for the morrow's yachting, but then
she did not want the wearer of it on the yacht.
The girl would have to be everywhere very
soon, of course, but Lady Dolly put off the evil
day as long as she could.

It is the cut she said, dropping her glass
with a sigh. ' It can't be Morgan's ? '

Who is Morgan ? ' asked the child, so benighted
that she had not even heard of the
great Worth of nautical costume.

'Morgan is the only creature possible for
serge,' sighed Lady Dolly. ' You don't seem
to understand darling. Material is nothing.

Make is everything. Look at our camelot
and pervade gowns that Worth sends us ; and
look at the satins and velvets of a bourgeois
from Aspires or a wine-merchant's wife from
Clapham ! Oh, my dear child ! cut your gown
out of your dog's towel or your horses' cloths
if you like, but mind Who cuts it : that is
the one golden rule ! But good-night, my
sweetest. Sleep well.'

Lady Dolly brushed her daughter's cheek
with the diamond end of her earring, and took
herself off in a maze of pale yellow and deep
scarlet as mysteriously and perfectly blended
as the sunset colours of an Italian night.

'She is really vers pretty,' she said to
her counsellor as he put her cloak round
her and pocketed her fan. ' Eeally, very
handsome, like Bare Jones's things and all
that, don't you know.'

A long sight prettier and healthier than
any of 'em,' said the counsellor lighting his
cigar ; for he had small respect for the High
Art of his period.

They went forth into the moonlit night to

MOTHS.

the Casino, and left Yere to the sleep into
which she sobbed herself like a child as she
still was, soothed at last by the sound of the
incoming tide and the muttering of the good
Fraulein's prayers.

Verb was awoke at five o'clock by tumultuous
laughter, gay shrill outcries, and a sudden
smell of cigar smoke. It was her mother returning
home. Doors banged ; then all grew still.
Yere got up, looked at the sea and remembered
that permission to go out had been given her.

In another hour she was abroad in the soft
cool sunshine of early morning, the channel
before her, and behind her the stout form of
Northumbrian Keziah.

Trouvilain, as somebody has wittily called
it, is not lovely. Were it not so celebrated,
undoubtedly it would be called commonplace ;
but, in the very first light of morning, every

spot on earth, except a manufacturing city,
has some loveliness, and Trouvilain at daybreak
had some for Vere. There were yachts with
slender trim lines beautiful against the clear
sky. There were here and there provision
boats pulling out with sailors in dark blue
jerseys, and red capped. There were fleecy
white clouds, and there were cool sands ; cool
now, if soon they would be no better than
powder and dust. Along the poor planks that
are the treadmill of fashion, Vere's buoyant
young feet bore her with swiftness and pleasure
till she reached the Cornice des Eccles
Noires and got out into the charming green
country.

She glanced at the water and longed to
run into the shallows and wade and spread her
limbs out, and float and swim, beating the
sea with her slender arms and rosy toes as she
had done most mornings in the cold, wind-swept,
steel-grey northern tides of her old
home.

But her bathing-costume had been forbidden,
had even been carried away in bitter contempt

by one of the French maids, and never would
she go into the sea in this public place in one
of those sleeveless, legless, circus-rider's tunics :
no, never, she said to herself; and her resolves
were apt to be very resolute ones. Her old
guardian at Bulmer Chase had always said to
her: 'Never say "no" rashly, nor "yes" either;
but when you have said them, stand to them asa
soldier to his guns.'

She did not at all know her way, but she had
thought if she kept along by the water she would
some time or other surely get out of the sight
of all those gay houses, which, shut as all their
persiennes were, and invisible as were all their
occupants, yet had fashion and frivolity so
plainly written on their coquettish awnings,
their balconies, their doorways, their red geraniums
and golden cancellaria blazing before
their blinds. At five o'clock there was nobody
to trouble her certainly ; yet within sight of all
those windows she had felt as if she were still
before the staring eyes and eyeglasses of the
cruel crowd of that terrible yesterday.

She went on quickly with the elastic step
VOL. I. -^

which had been used to cover so easily mile after
mile of the feathered moors of Bulmer, and the
firm yellow sands by the northern ocean. Before
the cloudless sun of the August daybreak was
much above the waters of the east with the smoke
of the first steamer from Havre towering grey
and dark against the radiant rose of the sky,
Vere had left Trouville, and its sleeping beauties
and yawning dandies in their beds, far behind
her, and was nearly a third of the way to
Villerville. She did not know anything at all
about Lecamus/Zs, Jules David, Challamel, and
Figaro with his cabin, who had made Villerville
famous, but she went onward because the sea
was blue, the sand was yellow, the air was sweet
and wholesome, and the solitude was complete.

Her spirits rose; light, and air, and liberty of
movement were necessary to her, for, in the old
woods and on the rough moors of Bulmer, her
grandmother had let her roam as she chose, on
foot or on her pony. It had been a stern rule
in other things, but as regarded air and exercise
she had enjoyed the most perfect freedom.

Are you tired, Keziah ? ' she cried at last,
noticing that the patient waiting-woman lagged

behind. The stout Northumbrian admitted
that she was. She had never been so in her
life before ; but that frightful sea journey from
Southampton had left her stomach ^ orkard.'

Yere was touched to compunction.

You poor creature ! and I brought you out
without your breakfast, and we have walked —
oh ! ever so many miles she said in poignant
self-reproach. ' Keziah, look here, there is a
nice smooth stone. Sit down on it and rest,
and I will run about. Yes ; do not make any
objection ; sit down.'

Keziah, who adored her very shadow as it
fell on sward or sand, demurred faintly, but the
flesh was weak, and the good woman dropped
down on the stone with a heavy thud, as of a
sack falling to earth, and sat there in plaid
shawl and homespun gown, with her hands on
her knees, the homely sober figure that had
seemed to Lady Dolly to have come out of the
ark like the indigo bathing-dress.

Yere left her on that madrepore throne,
and strayed onward herself along by the edge
of the sea,

pa

On one side of lier was a dark bastion of
rock, above that, out of sight, were green pastures
and golden corn fields ; on the other was
the Channel, placid, sunny, very unlike the surging
turbulent gigantic waves of her old home.

Can you ever be rough ? Can you ever
look like salt water?' she said with a little
contempt to it, not knowing anything about
the appalling chopping seas and formidable
swell of the Channel which the boldest mariners
detest more than all the grand furies of Baltic or
Atlantic. But it was bright blue water fretted
with little curls of foam, and the low waves
rolled up lazily, and lapped the sand at her
feet; and she felt happy and playful, as was
natural to her age ; and that she was quite
alone mattered nothing to her, for she had
never had any young companions, and never
played except with the dogs.

She wandered about, and ran here and there,
and found some sandpipers' empty nests, and
gathered some gorse and stuck it in the riband
of her old sailor's hat, and was gay and careless,
and sang little soft low songs to herself, as the

I

swallows sing when they sit on the roof in midsummer.
She had taken off her hat, the wind
lifted the weighty gold of her straight cut hair,
and blew the old brown holland skirt away from
her slender ankles. She began to look longingly
at the water, spreading away from her so far
and so far, and lying in delicious little cool
shallows amongst the stones. She could not
bathe, but she thought she might wade and
paddle. She took off her shoes and stockings,
and waded in. The rock pools were rather
deep, and the water rose above her ankles ;
those pretty roses, and lilacs, and feathery
hyacinths of the sea that science calls artifice,
uncurled their tufts of feathers, and spread out
their starry crowns, and lifted their tiny bells
around her ; broad riband weeds floated, crabs
waddled, little live shells sailed here and there,
and all manner oialgce, brown and red, were curling
about the big stones. She was in paradise.
She had been reared on the edge of the sea
the cold dark stern sea of the north, indeed,
but still the sea. This was only a quiet sunny
nook of the French coast of the Channel,

but it was charming from the silence, the sunshine,
and the sweet liberty of the waters.
She thought she was miles away from everyone,
and therefore was duly obeying her mother's
sole command. There was not even a sail insight
: quite far off was a cloud of dark boats,
which were the fishing cobles of Honneur;
there was nothing else near, nothing but a
score of gulls, spreading their white wings, and
diving to catch the fish as they rose.

She waded on and on : filling an old creel
with seaweeds and sea shells, for she was no
more than a child in a great many things.
The anemones she would not take, because she
had no means of keeping them in comfort.
She contented herself with standing nearly
knee deep, and gazing down on all their glories
seen through the glass of the still, sparkling
water. She sprang from stone to stone, from
pool to pool, forgetting Keziah seated on her
rock. Neither did she see a pretty little dingy
that was fastened to a stake amongst the
boulders.

The air was perfectly still 5 there was only

one sound, that of the incoming tide running
up and rippling over the pebbles.

Suddenly a voice from the waves, as it
seemed, began to chaunt parts of the Requiem
of Mozart. It was a voice pure as a lark's,
rich as an organ's swell, tender as love's first
embrace, marvellously melodious, in a word,
that rarity which the earth is seldom blessed
enough to hear from more than one mortal
throat in any century : it was a perfectly beautiful
tenor voice.

Vere was standing in the water, struck
dumb and motionless; her eyes dilated, she
scarcely breathed, every fibre of her being,
everything in her, body and soul, seemed to
listen. She did not once wonder whence it
came ; the surpassing beauty and melody of it
held her too entranced.

Whether it were in the air, in the water, in
the sky, she never asked — one would have
seemed as natural to her as the other.

From the Requiem it passed with scarce a
pause to the impassioned songs of Gounod's
Romeo. Whatever the future may say of

Gounod, this it will never be able to deny, that he
is the supreme master of the utterances of Love.
The passionate music rose into the air, bursting
upon the silence and into the sunlight, and
seeming to pierce the very heavens, then sinking
low and sweet and soft as any lover's sigh
of joy ; breaking off at last abruptly and leaving
nothing but the murmur of the sea.

The girl drew a great breathless cry, as if
something beautiful were dead, and stood quite
still, her figure mirrored in the shallows.

The singer came round from the projecting
ledge of the brown cliffs, uncovered his head
and bowed low, with apology for unwitting
intrusion on her solitude.

It was he whom Adrienne had called le
philtre clamour.

Then the girl, who had been in heaven,
dropped to earth; and remembered her wet
and naked feet, and glanced down on them
with shame, and coloured as rosy-red as the
sea-flowers in the pool.

She threw an eager glance over the sands.
Alas ! she had forgotten her shoes and stockings.

and the place where they had been knew them
no more — the waves had rippled over them and
were tossing them, heaven could tell how near
or far away.

The ' sad leaden humanity which drags
us all to earth, brought her from the trance of
ecstasy to the very humblest prose of shame
and need.

^I have lost them,' she murmured; and
then felt herself grow from rose to scarlet, as
the singer stood on the other side of the pool
gazing at her and seeing her dilemma with
amusement.

Your shoes and stockings, mademoiselle ? '

He was so used to seeing pretty nude feet
at Trouville that it was impossible for him to
measure the awful character of the calamity in
the eyes of Vere.

Yes, I took them off; and I never dreamt
that anyone was here.'

Perhaps you have only forgotten where
you put them. Let me have the honour to
look for your lost treasures.'

Yere stood in her shallow, amongst the

riband weed, with, her head hung down, and
the colour burning in her face. All her pride,
of which she had much, could not avail her here.
She was nervously ashamed and unhappy.

The new-comer searched ardently and indefatigably,
leaving no nook of rock or little
deposit of sea-water unexamined. He waded
in many places, and turned over the weed in
all, but it was in vain. The sea was many an
inch, deeper over the shore than when she had
first come, and her shoes and hose were doubtless
drifting loose upon the waves : there was
no trace of them.

Unconscious of this tragedy enacting,
Keziah sat in the calm distance, a grey and
brown figure, facing the horizon.

Vere stood all the while motionless; the
sweet singing seeming still to throb and thrill
through the air around, and the sunny daylight
seeming to go round her in an amber mist,
through which she only saw her own two
naked feet, still covered in some sort with the
water and the weeds.

They are gone, mademoiselle ! ' said the

singer, coming to her with eyes that he made
most tender and persuasive. They were beautiful
eyes, that lent themselves with willingness
to this familiar office.

They must have been washed away by
the tide ; it is coming higher each moment.
Indeed, you must not remain where you are
or you will be surrounded very soon, and
carried off yourself. These channel tides are
treacherous and uncertain.'

I will go to my maid,' murmured Yere,
with a fawn-like spring from her stones to
others, forgetting in her shame to even thank
him for his services.

To that admirable person enthroned yonder
? ' said the singer of the songs. * But,
mademoiselle, there is the deep sea between
you and her already. Look ! '

Indeed, so rapidly had the tide run in, and
the waters swelled up, that she was divided
from her attendant by a broad sheet of blue
shallows. Keziah, tired and sleepy from her
journeyings, was nodding unconsciously on her
throne of rocks.

And she will be drowned ! ' said Vere with
a piercing cry, and she began wading knee-deep
into the sea before her companion knew
what she was about. In a moment he had
caught her and lifted her back on to the firm
sand.

'Your good woman is in no danger, but
you cannot reach her so, and you will only
risk your own life, mademoiselle,' he said
gently. ' There is nothing to be alarmed about.
Shout to your attendant to take the path up
the cliffs — perhaps she would not understand
me — and we will take this road ; so we shall
meet on the top of this table-land that is now
above our heads. That is all. Shout loudly
to her.'

Vere was trembling, but she obeyed — she
had learned the too oft-forgotten art of obedience
at Bulmer Chase, and she shouted loudly till she
aroused Keziah, who awoke, rubbing her eyes,
and dreaming, no doubt, that she was in the
servants' hall at Bulmer.

When she understood what had happened
and what she was bidden to do, the stout

north countrywoman tucked up her petticoats,
and began to climb up the steep path with a
will, once assured that her young mistress
was out of all danger. The face of the cliff
soon hid her figure from sight, and Vere felfc
her heart sink strangely.

But she had no time to reflect, for the
stranger propelled her gently towards the worn
ridge in the rocks near them, a path which the
fisher-people had made incoming up and down.

'Let us mount quickly, mademoiselle. I
did not notice myself that the tide was so high.
Alas ! I fear the rocks will hurt your feet.
When we reach the first ledge you must wind
some grass round them. Come ! '

Vere began to climb. The stones, and the
sand, and the rough dry weeds cut her feet
terribly, but these did not hurt her so much as
the idea that he saw her without shoes and
stockings. Reaching a ledge of stone he bade
her sit down, and tore up some broad grasses
and brought them to her,

Bind these about your feet,' he said kindly,
and turned his back to her. * Ah ! why will

you mind so much? Madame, your lovely
mother, dances about so for two or three hours
in the water-carnival every noonday ! '

'Do sou know my mother's said Vera,
lifting her face, very hot and troubled from
winding the grass about her soles and insteps.

I have had that honour for many years in
Paris. You will have heard of me, perhaps.
I am a singer.'

Yere, for the first time, looked in his face,
and saw that it was the face whose beauty had
attracted her in the sunlight on the shore,
and whom Adrienne had called the philtre
clamour.

^ It was you who were singing, then ? ' she
said timidly, and thinking how beautiful and
how wonderful he was, this great artist, who
stood before her clothed in white, with the sun
shining in his luminous eyes.

'Yes. I came here to bathe and to swim,
and then run over some of the scores of a new
opera, that we shall have in Paris this winter,
of Ambrose Thomas's. One cannot study
in peace for ten minutes in Trouville, Yoi:t

love music, mademoiselle ? Oh ! you need not
speak : one always knows.'

'I never vent to any opera,' said Vere
Tinder her breath, resuming her climb up the
rock.

^ Never ! May I sing to you then in the
first opera you hear ! Take care ; this path is
steep. Do not look back ; and catch at the
piles where the guindeaux hang. You need fear
nothing. I am behind you.'

Vere climbed on in silence ; the thick bands
of grass protected her feet in a measure, yet
it was hard and rough work. Young and
strong though she was, she was glad when
they reached the short grass on the head of
the cliffs and sank down on it, field-fares and
several birds of all kinds wheeling around her
in the grey clear air.

You are not faint ? ' he asked anxiously.

Oh no ! Only tired.'

Will you rest here ten minutes, and I will
come back to you ? '

If you wish me.'

He smiled at the childish docility of the

answer and left her, whilst she leaned down on
the turf of the table-land, and gazed at the sea
far down below, and at the horizon where
many a white sail shone, and here and there
streamed the dark trail of a steamer's smoke.
She had forgotten Keziah for the moment ;
she was only hearing in memory those wonderful
tones, clear as a lark's song, rich as an organ's
swell, ringing over the waters in the silence.

In less than ten minutes he was back at
her side with a pair of little new wooden shoes
in his hand.

I thought these might save you from the
stones and dust a little. Mademoiselle Herbert,'
he said, ' and it is impossible to procure any
better kind in this village. Will you try them ? '

She was grateful ; the little shoes were * a
child's size and fitted as if they had been the
glass slipper of Cinderella.

'You are very good,' she said timidly.
And how can you tell what my name is ? '

I witnessed your arrival yesterday. Besides,
who has not heard of lovely Madame Dolly's
daughter ? '

Vere was silent. She vaguely wondered
why her mother was called Dolly by all men
whatever.

Suddenly, with a pang of conscience, she
remembered Keziah, and sprang up on her
sabots. Correze divined her impulse and her
thought.

Your good woman is quite safe,' he said ;
the peasants have seen her on the top of the
rocks, but she seems to have taken a wrong
path, and so it may be half-an-hour before we
overtake her. But do not be afraid or anxious.
I will see you safely homeward.'
Vere grew very pale.

'But mother made me promise to see no one.'
'Why?'

Because my dress is all wrong. And poor
Keziah ! — oh, how frightened she will be ! '

'Not very. We shall soon overtake her.
Or, better still, I will send a lad after her while
we rest a little. Come and see my village, if
you can walk in your scots. It is a village that
I have discovered, so I have the rights of Selkirk.
Come, if you are not too tired. Brava ! '
VOL. I. G

He cried 'brava ! ' because she walked so well
in her wooden shoes; and he saw that to please
him she was overcoming the ti mighty which the
solitude of her situation awoke in her.

How can she be the daughter of that little
impudent /^e mouche V he thought.

Yere was shy but brave. Lady Dolly and
her sisterhood were audacious but cowardly.

He led her across the broad hard head of the
cliffs, mottled black and gray where the rock
broke through the grass, and thence across a
sort of rambling down with low furze-bushes
growing on it, further by a cart-track, where
cart-wheels had cut deep into the soil, to a little
cluster of houses, lying sheltered from the sea
winds by the broad bluff of the cliffs which rose
above them, and gathered under the shelter of
apple and cherry trees, with one great walnut
growing in the midst.

Ifc was a poor little village enough, with a
smell of tar from the fishing-nets and sails
spread out to dry, and shingle roofs held down
with stones, and little dusky close-shut pigeon-holes
for windows : but, in the memory of Yere

for ever afterwards, that little village seemed
even as Arcadia.

He had two wooden chairs brought out, and
a wooden table, and set them under the cherry-trees,
all reddened then with fruit. He had a
wooden bowl of milk, and honey, and brown
bread, and cherries, brought out too. There
were lavender and a few homely stocks and
wallflowers growing in the poor soil about the
fences of the houses ; bees hummed and swallows
cleft the air.

You are thirsty and hungry, I am sure,' he
said, and Yere, who had not learned to be
ashamed of such things, said with a smile, ' I am.'

He had reassured her as to Keziah, after
whom he had sent a fisher-boy. That the
fisher-boy would ever find Keziah he did not in
the least see any reason to believe ; but he did
not see any reason either why he should tell
Yere so, to make her anxious and disturbed.
The girl had such a lovely face, and her innocence
and seriousness pleased him.

'Are you sure the boy will soon find my
woman ? ' she asked him wistfully.
g2

'Quite sure he answered. 'He saw her
himself a little while ago on the top of the cliff
yonder. Do not be dismayed about that, and
find some appetite for this homely fare. I have
made requisitions like any Prussian, but the
result is poorer than T hoped it might be. Try
some cherries.'

The cherries were fine biggaroons, scarlet
and white, and Vere was still a child. She
drank her milk and ate them with keen relish.
The morning was growing warm as the sun
clomb higher in the heavens. She took off her
hat, and the wind lifted the thick hair falling
over her forehead; exertion and excitement had
brought a flush of colour in her cheeks; the
light and shade of the walnut leaves was above
her head ; little curly-headed children peeped
behind the furze fence and the sweetbread
hedge ; white-capped old women looked on,
nodding and smiling ; the sea was out of sight,
but the sound and the scent of it came there.

It is an idol,' thought her companion ;
idols were not in his life, which was one of
mending triumphs, passions, and festivals,

dizzily mingled in a world which adored him.
Meanwhile it pleased him, if only by force of
novelty, and no incident on earth could ever
have found him unready.

You love music ? ' he cried to her. ^ Ah !
now if we were but in Italy in that dark little
cottage there would sure to be a chimaera, and
1 would give you a serenade to your cherries ;
perhaps without one — why not, if you like it ?
But first. Mademoiselle Herbert, I ought to tell
you who I am.'

Oh ! I know,' said Yere, and lifted her soft
eyes to him with a cherry against her lips.

'Indeed?'

'Yes, I saw you on the plage yesterday,
and Adrienne told me. You are Correze.'

She said the name tenderly and reverently,
for his fame had reached her in her childhood,
and she had often thought to herself, ' If only
I could hear Correze once ! '

He smiled caressingly.

I am glad that you cared to ask. Yes, I
am Correze, that is certain ; and perhaps
Correze would be the name of a greater artist

if the world had not spoilt him— your mamma's
world, mademoiselle. Well, my life is very
happy, and very gay and glad, and after all
the fame of the singer can never be but a
breath, a sound through a reed. When our
lips are once shut there is on us for ever eternal
silence. Who can remember a summer-breeze
when it has passed by, or tell in any aftertime
how a laugh or a sigh sounded ? '

His face grew for the moment sad and overcast
— that beautiful face which had fascinated
the eyes of the girl as it had done the gaze
of multitudes in burning nights of enthusiasm
from Neva to Tagus, from Danube to Seine.

Vere looked at him and did not speak. The
gaze of Correze had a magic for all women, and
she vaguely felt that magic as she met those
eyes that were the eyes of Romeo and of Faust.

What a lovely life it must be, your life,'
she said timidly. ' It must be like a perpetual
poem, I think.'

Correze smiled.

An artist's life is far off what you fancy it,
I fear ; but yet at the least it is full of colour

and of change. I am in the snows of Russia
one day, in the suns of Madrid another. I
know the life of the palaces, I have known the
life of the poor. When I forget the latter may
heaven forget me ! Some day when we are
older friends, Mademoiselle Herbert, I will tell
you my story.'

Tell me now,' said Yere softly, with her
gaze beginning to grow intent and eager under
the halo of her hair, and letting her cherries
lie unheeded on her lap.

Correze laughed.

Oh, you will be disappointed. I have not
much of one, and it is no secret. I am Raphael
de Correze ; I am the Marquis de Correze if it
were of any use to be so ; but I prefer to be
Correze the singer. It is much simpler, and
yet much more uncommon. There are so many
marquises, so few tenors. My race was great
amongst the old noblesse de Savoie, but it was
beggared in the Terror, and their lands were
confiscated and most of their lives were taken.
I was born in a cabin ; my grandfather had been
born in a castle ; it did not matter. He was a

philosopher and a scholar, and he had taken to
the mountains and loved them. My father
married a peasant girl, and lived as simply as a
shepherd. My mother died early. I ran about
barefoot and saw to the goats. We were on the
Valais side of the Pennine Alps. I used to
drive the goats up higher, higher, higher, as the
summer drew on, and the grass was eaten down.
In the winter an old priest, who lived with us,
and my father, when he had leisure, taught
me. We were very poor and often hungry, but
they were happy times. I think of them when
I go across the Alps wrapped up in my black
sables that the Empress of Eussia has given me.
I think I was warmer in the old days with the
snow ten feet deep all around ! Can you understand
that snow may be warmer than sables ?
Yes? Well, there is little to tell. One day, when
it was summer, and travellers were coming up
into the Pennine valleys, some one heard me
sing, and said my voice was a fortune. I was
singing to myself and the goats among the
gentian, the beautiful blue gentian — you know
it ? No, you do not know it, unless you have

roamed the Alps in May. Other persons came
after him and said the same thing, and wanted
me to go with them; but I would 'not leave my
father. Who could stack wood for him,
and cut j)3;ths through the snow, and rake
up the chestnuts and store them? I did all
that. I would not go. When I was fifteen he
died. ' Do not forget you are the last Marquis
de Correze,' he said to me with his last
breath. He had never forgotten it, and he
had lived and died in the shadow of the Alps
an honest man and a gentleman in his
mountain hut. I passed the winter in great
pain and trouble : it had been in the autumn
that he had died. I could not resolve whether
it would displease him in his grave under the
snow that a Correze should be a singer ; yet a
singer I longed to be. With the spring I said
to myself that after all one could be as loyal a
gentleman as a singer as a soldier ; why not ?
I rose up and walked down to the bottom of our
ravine, where twice a week the diligences for
Paris run ; I found one going on the road ; I
went by it, and went on and on until I entered

Paris. All ! that entry into Paris of the boy
with an artist's ambition and a child's faith in
destiny ! Why have they never written a
poem on it ? Once in Paris my path was easy ;
my voice made me friends. I went to Italy, I
studied, I was heard, I returned to my dear
Paris and triumphed. Well, I have been
happy ever since. It is very much to say;
and yet sometimes I long for the old winter
nights, roasting the chestnuts, with the wall of
snow outside ! '

Yere had listened with eloquent dim eyes,
and a fast beating heart; her cherries lying
still uneaten on her lap. She gave a little
quiet sigh as his voice ceased.

You feel so about it because your father
is dead,' she said very low, under her
breath. 'If he were here to know all your
triumphs '

Correze bent down and touched her hand,
as it hung forward over her knee, with his lips.
It was a mere habitual action of graceful courtesy
with him, but it gave the child a strange
thrill. She had never seen those tender easy

ceremonies of the South. He saw that he had
troubled her, and was sorry.

Eat your cherries, Mademoiselle Herbert,
and I will sing you a song,' he said gaily,
dropping a cherry into his own mouth, and he
began to hum in his perfect melodious notes
odds and ends of some of the greatest music of
the world.

Then he sang with a voice only raised to
one tenth of its power, the last song of Fernando,
his lips scarcely parting as he sang, and
his eyes looking away to the yellow gorse and
the sheep-cropped grass, and the drifting
clouds ; giving to the air and sea what he often
refused to princes.

For the great tenor Correze was a prince
himself in his caprices.

The perfect melody that held multitudes
enthralled, and moved whole cities to ecstasies,
that dissolved queens in tears and made women
weep like little children, was heard on the still
sunny silence of the cliffs with only a few babies
tumbling in the sandy grass, and an old woman
or two sitting spinning at her door. Down in

gas Trouville all his worshippers could not woo
from hi in a note ; the entreaties that were
commands found him obdurate and left him
indifferent ; and he sang here to the lark that
was singing over his head, because a girl of
sixteen had lost her shoes and stockings, and
he wished to console her.

When once the voice left his lips he sang
on, much as the lark did, softly and almost
unconsciously ; the old familiar melodies following
one another unbidden, as in his childhood
he had used to sing to the goats with the
flush of the Alpine roses about his feet, and
the snow above his head.

The lark dropped, as though owning itself
vanquished, into the hollow, where its consort's
lowly nest was made. Correze ceased suddenly
to sing, and looked at his companion. Yere
was crying.

Ah ! my beautiful angel ! ' said an old
peasant woman to him, standing close against
the furze fence to listen ; ' do you come out of
paradise to tell us we are not quite forgot
there ? '

Yere said nothing ; she only turned on him
her great soft eyes whilst the tears were falling
unchecked down her cheeks.

Mademoiselle said Correze, ' I have had
flattery in my time, and more than has been
good for me ; but who ever gave me such sweet
flattery as yours ? '

Flattery ! ' murmured Vere. ' I did not
mean — oh ! how can you say that ? The woman
is right — it is as if it came from the angels ! '

'By a servant of angels most unworthy,
then,' said Correze, with a smile and a sigh.
'As for the woman — good mother, here is a
gold piece that carries Paradise in it ; or, at
least men think so. But I am afraid, myself,
that by the time we have found the gold pieces
we have most of us forgotten the way to Paradise.'


Yere was silent. She was still very pale ;
the tears stood on her lashes as the rain stands
on the fringes of the dark passion-flower after
a storm.

'Tell me your name, my angel,' said the
old woman, with her hand on the coin.

^ Raphael.'

I will pray to St. Raphael for you ; if
indeed you be not lie ? '

'Nay; I am not he. Pray always, good
soul; it is pleasant to think that some one prays
for us. Those cries cannot all be lost.'

'Have you none to love you? ' said the old
woman. ' That is odd, for you are beautiful.'

I have many to love me — in a way. But
none to pray that I know of — that is another
affair. Mother, did you see that lark that sang
on against me, and dropped to its nest at last? '

I saw it.'

Then have a heed that the boys do not
stone, and the trappers net it.'

I will. What is your fancy ? '

It is a little brother.'

The peasant woman did not understand, but
she nodded three times. 'The lark shall be
safe as a king in his court. The jolt he is in
is mine. When you want a thing say to women
you wish it — you do not want to say anything
else.'

Correze laughed, aid pulled down a rose from

behind the sweetbread. He held it out to
Yere.

If there were only a single rose here and
there upon earth, men and women would pass
their years on their knees before its beauty. I
wonder sometimes if human ingratitude for
beauty ever hurts God? One might fancy even
Deity wounded by neglected gifts. What do
you say ? '

He plucked a little lavender and some sea-pinks,
and wound them together with the rose.

When the fools throw me flowers they hurt
me; it is barbarous,' he said. 'To throw laurel
has more sense ; there is a bitter smell in it,
and it carries a sound allegory ; but flowers ! —
flowers thrown in the dust, and dying in the
gas-glare ! The little live birds thrown at
Carnival are only one shade worse. Ah ! here
is the lad that I sent to find your waiting-woman.'


The rose, the song, the magical charm
seemed all dissolved before Vere as by the
speaking of some disenchanted's spell : the hardness
and fearfulness of prosaic fact faced her.

The fisher-lad explained that he had been
miles in search of the good woman, but he had
not found her. Men he had lately met had
told him they had seen such a figure running
hard back to the town.

'What shall I do?' she murmured aloud.
I have been forgetting all the trouble that I
have been to you. Show me the way back —
only that — I can find it — I can go alone.
Indeed I can, M. de Correze.'

Indeed, you will do nothing of the kind,'
said Corrode. ' Your woman is quite safe, you
see, so you need fear nothing for her. No
doubt she thinks you have gone that way home.
Mademoiselle Herbert, if you will listen to me,
you will not distress yourself, but let me take
you in my little boat that is down there to
Trouville. It is impossible that you should walk
in those wooden shoes, and carriage or even
cart there is none here. Come, it is half-past
nine only now. The sun is still temperate ; the
sea is smooth. Come, I will row you home in
an hour.'

But I have been such a trouble to you.'

May I never have worse burdens ! '
And my mother will be so angry.'
Will she ? Madame Dolly, a mother and
angry ! I cannot picture it ; and I thought I
knew her in every phase. My child, do not be
so troubled about nothing. We will drift back
slowly and pleasantly, and you shall be in your
mother's house before noon strikes. And
everyone knows me. That is one of the uses of
notoriety ; it has many drawbacks, so it need
have some compensations. Come. I rowed
myself out here. I studied music a year in
Venice when I was a lad, and learned rowing
on the Lido from the fruit-girls. Come.'

She did not resist much more ; she thought
that he must know best. With the grey
lavender and the rose at her throat, she went
away from under the cherry trees ; the old
woman in her blue gown gave them her blessing;
the lark left his nest and began to sing
again ; the sunny hour was over, the black
steep head of the cliffs was soon between them
and the little hamlet.

They walked down by an easier way to the

VOL. I. H

shore. The little boat was rocking on a high
tide.

Can yon steer ? ' said Correze.

Oh, yes said Yere, who was learned in
all sailing and boating, after a childhood passed
by the rough grey waters of an iron coast.

He took the oars, and she the ropes. The
sea was smooth, and there was no wind, not
even a ruffle in the air ; the boat glided slowly
and evenly along.

He talked and laughed, he amused and beguiled
her ; he told her stories ; now and then
he sang low sweet snatches of Venetian boat-songs
and rowing chaunts of the Lombard
lakes and of the Riviera gulfs and bays ; the
sun was still cool ; the sea looked blue to her
eyes which had never beheld the Mediterranean.
There were many craft in sight, pleasure and
fishing vessels, and farther away large ships ;
but nothing drew near them save one old coble
going in to Retreat from the night's dredging.
It was an enchanted voyage to Yere, as the
hamlet on the cliffs, and the homely lavender,
and the cabbage rose, had been all enchanted

things. She was in a dream. She wondered
if she were really living. As she had never
read but great and noble books, she thought
vaguely of the Faerie Queen and of the Fata
Morgana. And through the sunlight against
the sea, she saw as in a golden halo the beautiful
brillant dreamy face of Correze.

At last the voyage was done.

The little boat grated against the sands of
Trouville, and against the side of a yacht's gig
waiting there with smart sailors in white jerseys
and scarlet caps, with ' Ei^hemeris ' in large
blue letters woven on their shirts.

It was still early, earlier than it was usual
for the fashionable idleness of the place to be
upon the shore ; and Correze had hoped to run
his boat in on land unnoticed. But, as the
frankness of fate would have it, several people
had been wakened before their usual hour.
The yachts of a great channel race, after having
been all night out towards the open ocean, had
hove in sight on their homeward tack, and were
objects of interest, as heavy bets were on them.
Correze, to his annoyance, saw several skiffs and

H2

canoes already oui upon the water round him,
and several poppy-coloured and turquoise-coloured
stripes adorning the bodies of human
beings, and moving to and fro, some on the
sand, some in the surf, some in the deeper sea.

There was no help for it, he saw, but to run
the boat in, and trust to chance to take his
companion unnoticed across the few hundred
yards that separated the shore from the Gatehouse
of Lady Dolly.

But chance chose otherwise.

As he steered through the still shallow
water, and ran the boat up on the sand, there
were some human figures, like gaily painted
pelops, immediately swarming down towards
him, and amongst them Lady Dolly herself;
Lady Dolly with a penthouse-like erection of
straw above her head to keep the sun off, and
her body tightly encased in black and yellow
stripes, till she looked like a wasp — if a wasp
had ever possessed snowy arms quite bare and
bare white legs.

Correze gave his hand to Yere to alight,
and she set her little wooden shoes upon the

dusty shore, and did not looli up. The golden
clouds seemed all about her still, and she was
wondering what she could ever say to him to
thank him enough for all his care.

A peal of shrill laughter pierced her ear
and broke her musing.

Correze, what nj^nph or naiad have you
found ? A mermaid in sabots ! Oh ! oh ! oh ! '

The laughter pealed and shrieked, as
fashionable ladies' laughter will, more often
than is pretty ; and then, through the laughter
she heard her mother's voice.

Ah — ha ! Correze ! So this is why you
steal away from supper when the daylight
comes ? '

Correze, surrounded by the swarming and
parti-coloured pelops, lifted his head, comprehended
the situation, and bowed to the
ground.

'I have had the honour and happiness,
madame, to be of a slight service to Mademoiselle
Herbert.'

The group of pelops was composed of
Lady Dolly, the Princesse Helene, a Princess

Repine, three other ladies, and several gentlemen,
just come to the edge of the sea to
bathe.

Vere gave one amazed glance at her mother
and blushed scarlet. The glance and the
blush were not for the shame of her own
misdoing ; they were for the shame of her
mother's attire. Yere, who had been overwhelmed
with confusion at the loss of her
shoes, was very far from comprehending the
state of feeling which adopts a fashionable
swimming costume as perfect propriety, and
skips about in the surf hand in hand with a
male swimmer, the cynosure of five hundred
eye-glasses and lorgnons.

She had seen the bathing-dress indeed, but
though she had perceived that it was legless
and armless, she had imagined that something
must be worn with it to supplement those
deficiencies, and she had not in any way
reckoned the full enormity of it as it had hung
limp over the back of a chair.

But on her mother !

As the group of living human pelops
swarmed before her on the edge of the sea, and

she realised that it was actually her mother,
actually her dead father's wife, who was before
her, with those black and yellow stripes for all
her covering, Vere felfc her cheeks and brow
burn all over as with fire. They thought she
was blushing with shame at herself, but
she was blushing for shame for them, and
those tight-drawn rainbow-coloured stripes that
showed every line of the form more than the
kilted skirts and scant rags of the fisher-girls
ever showed theirs. If it were right to comedown
to dance about in the water with half-a-dozen
men around, Low could that which she
had done herself be so very wrong ? The sea and
the sands and the sky seemed to go round with
her. She was only conscious of the anger
sparkling from her mother's eyes ; she did not
heed the tittering and the teasing with which
the other ladies surrounded her companion.

Vere ! ' — Lady Dolly for the moment said
nothing more. She stood blankly staring at
her daughter, at the sunburnt hat, the tumbled
hair, the wooden shoes ; and at the figure of
Correze against the sun.

You — with Correze 1 ' she cried at length j

and Correze, studying her pretty little face,
thou gilt h VN evil pretty women could sometimes
look.

Mademoiselle Herbert had lost her maid,
and her roads and her shoes,' he hastened to
say with his most charming grace ; ' I have
been happy enough to be of a little — too little
service to her. The fault was none of hers,
but all of the tide ; and, save the loss of the
shoes, there is no mischief done.'

*M. Correze has wasted his morning forme,
and has been so very kind,' said Yere.
Her voice was very low, but it was steady.
She did not think she had done any wrong,
but she felt bewildered, and was not quite sure.

Her mother laughed very irritably.

Correze is always too kind, and always a
"preux chevalier. What on earth have you been
doing, darling ? and where are your women ?
and however could you be so quite too dreadfully
foolish. I suppose you think life is like
Alice in Wonderland ? Jack, see her home,
will you ? and join us at the yacht and lock
her up in her room, and the German with her.

How good of sou, dear Correze, to bore yourself
with a troublesome child. If it were
anybody else except you who had come ashore
like this with my Vera I should feel really too
anxious and angry. But, with you '

Madame ! I am too fortunate ! If you
deem me to be of any use, however, let me
claim as a guerdon, permission to attend
mademoiselle your daughter to her home.'

Jack, see her home, pray. Do you hear
me,' said Lady Dolly again, sharply. 'No —
not you, Correze — you are quite too charming
to be trusted. Jack's like an old woman.'

The Princesse Helene smiled at the Princess
Repine.

If old women are thirty years old, handsome
in a fair bold breezy fashion, and six feet
three in height, then was Lord Jura like them.
He had come ashore from the ' Ephemeris,'
and was the only one of the party decently clad.

Why should she go home ? ' muttered Jura,
why may she not come with us — eh ? '

'Out of the question,' said Lady Dolly,
very sharply.

He was a silent man; he said nothing
now ; he strode off silently to Vere's side, lifting
his straw hat a little, in sign of his acceptance
of his devoir.

Yere made an inclination to her mother and
the other ladies, with the somewhat stately
deference that had been imposed on her at
Bulmer Chase, and began to move toward the
Chalet Ludoff, whose green blinds and gilded
scroll balconies were visible in the distance.
Correze bowed very low with his own matchless
grace and ease, and began to follow them.

No ; not you Correze ; T cannot permit it.
You are too fascinating — infinitely too fascinating
— to play chaperon,' cried Lady Dolly
once more. ' Yera, when you get home go to
your room, and stay there till I come. You
have had enough liberty to-day, and have
abused it shamefully.'

Having screamed that admonition on the
air. Lady Dolly turned to her friends the
feminine pelops, and entreated them not to
think too badly of her naughty little puss — she
was so young !

In a few moments all the pelops had
jumped into the water, and the young Due de
Dinant was teaching Lady Dolly to execute
in the waves a new dance just introduced in an
operetta of Messieurs Meilhac and Herve; a
dance that required prodigious leaps and produced
boisterous laughter. Vere did not look
back once ; she felt very ashamed still, but not
of herself.

Jura did not address a word to her, except
when they had approached the steps of the
Chalet LudofiP; then he said, somewhat sheepishly,
— ' I say — if she's nasty don't you mind.
She can be ; but it soon blows over '

Yere was silent.

Won't you come out to-day,' he pursued.
I do so wish you would. It's my tub, you
know, and you would like it. Do come ? '

'Where?'

On my yacht. We are going to picnic at
Villiers. The Grand Duchess is coming, and
she is great fun, when she aren't too drunk.
Why shouldn't you come? It seems to me
you are shut up like a nun. It's not fair.'

^ My mother does not wish me to come anywhere
said Vere dreamily, heeding him very
little. ' There is the house. Go back to them,
Lord Jura. Thanks.'

Jura went back ; but not until he had sent
her up a pretty little breakfast, and the most
innocent of his many French novels.

*It is a beastly shame,' he said, as he
walked towards the swimmers over the sands.

Correze, meanwhile, who had resisted all
entreaties to bathe, and all invitations to pass
the day on the ' Ephemeris,' wended his way
slowly towards his hotel.

She has claws, that pretty cat,' he said to
himself, thinking of Lady Dolls He had
never very much liked her, and he detested her
now in a petulant impetuous way that now
and then broke up the sunny softness of his
temper.

How sweet she is now ; sweet as the sweet-briar,
and as healthy,' he thought to himself.
How clear the soul, how clear the eyes ! If
only that would last ! But one little year in
the world, and it will be all altered. She will

have gained some chic, no doubt, and some
talent and tact; she sill wear high-heeled
shoes, and she will have drawn in her waist,
and learned how to porter le seiri en offhand,
and learned how to make those grand grey
eyes look languid, and lustrous, and terrible.
Oh, yes, she will have learned all that. But
then, alas ! alas ! she will have learned so
much too. She will have learned what the
sickly sarcasms mean, and the wrapt-up presidencies
intend, and what women and men are
worth, and how politics are knavish tricks, and
the value of a thing is just as much as it will
bring, and all the rest of the dreary gospel of
self. What a pity ! what a pity ! But it is
always so. I dare say she will never stoop to
folly as her pretty mother does ; but the bloom
will go. She will be surprised, shocked, pained ;
then, little by little, she will get used to it
all— they all do — and then the world will have
her, body and soul, and perhaps will put a bit
of ice where that tender heart now beats. She
will be a great lady, I dare say — a very great
lady — nothing worse, very likely ; but, all the

same, my sweetbread will be withered, and my
white wild rose will be dead — and what will it
matter to me ? I dare say I shall be a musical
box with a broken spring, lying in a dust of
dried myrtle and musty laurels ! '

Lady Dolly danced, floated, bobbed like a
cork, drifted languidly with her arms above her
head, dived, and disappeared with only the
rosy soles of her feet visible — did everything
that a pretty woman and a good swimmer can
do in shallow smooth water, with no breeze to
mar her comfort. But she was in a very bad
temper all the time.

Jura did not improve it, when she came out
of the water, by asking her, again, to let her
daughter go with them in the ' Ephemeris.'

An grand jamais I ' said Lady Dolly, quite
furiously. ' After such an exhibition of herself
with a singer ! Are you mad ? '

She went home furious ; changed her wet
stripes for a yachting dress in sullen silence;
refused to see the German governess, or to
allow Yere's door to be opened till she should
return in the evening, and went down to the

yacht in a state of great irritation, with a
charming costume, all white serge and navy
blue satin, with anchor buttons in silver, and a
Norwegian belt hung with everything that the
mind of man could imagine as going on to a
girdle.

The * Ephemeris ' was one of the best yachts
on the high seas ; had a good cook, wonderful
wines, a piano, a library, a cabin of rosewood
and azure, and deck hammocks of silk. Nevertheless
everything seemed to go wrong onboard
of her that day — at least to Lady Dolly.
They got becalmed, and stuck stupidly still,
while the steam yachts were tearing ahead ina
cruel and jeering manner; then the sea got
rough all in a moment ; the lobster salad disagreed
with her, or something did ; a spiteful
stiff wind rose ; and the Grand Duchess borrowed
her cigarette case and never returned
it, and of course could not be asked for it, and
it contained the only verbena-scented papelitos
that there were on board. Then Jura was too
attentive to the comfort of another woman, or
she fancied, at any rate, that he was; and

none of her especial pets were there, so she
could not make reprisals as she wished; and
Correze had obstinately and obdurately refused
to come at all. Not that she cared a straw
about Correze, but she hated being refused.

What a wax you're in, Dolly ! ' said Lord
Jura, bringing her some iced drinks and
peaches.

When I've had three mad people sent tome
! ' she cried in a rage. ' And I'll be obliged
to you, Jack, not to use slang to we.'

Lord Jura whistled and went aft.

What a boor he grows ! ' thought Lady
Dolly ; and the ' Ephemeris ' was pitching, and
she hated pitching, and the little Due de Dinant
was not on board because Jack wouldn't have
him; and she felt ill-used, furious, wretched,
and hated the cook for making the lobster
salad, and Yere for having been born.

A boy wouldn't have been half so bad,' she
thought. ' He'd have been always away, and
they'd have put him in the army. But a girl !
It's all very easy to say marry her, but she
hasn't any money, and the Mull people won't

give her any, and mj own people can't, and as
for Mr. Vanderdecken, one might as well try to
get blood out of a flint ; and they may say what
they like, but all men want money when they
marry nowadays, even when they've got heaps
more than they know what to do with themselves.
What a horrid woman the Grand
Duchess is. She's drunk already, and it isn't
three o'clock ! '

She's going splendidly now,' said Jura,
meaning the ' Ephemeris,' that plunged and
reared as if she were a mare instead of a
schooner ; and the fresh sou'easter that had
risen sent her farther and farther westward
towards the haze of distant seas.

I believe we're going straight to America !
what idiocy is yachting ! ' said Lady Dolly
savagely, as the wind tore at her tiny multitudinous
curls.

Meanwhile, Vere, in religious obedience, had
gone to the little chamber that was called by
courtesy at the Chalet Ludoff a study, and
submitting to be locked in, remained happy in
the morning's golden dream of sunshine, of song,

VOL. I. I

of the sea, of the summer. She had found her
lost Northumbrian safe, but in agonies of terror
and self-reproach, and the amiable German for
once very seriously angry. But Vere was not
to be ruffled or troubled ; she smiled at all
reproof, scarcely hearing it, and put her cabbage
rose and her sprigs of lavender in water. Then
she fell fast asleep on a couch, from fatigue and
the warmth of the Norman sun, and dreamed
of the blue gentian of the Alps that she had
never seen, and of the music of the voice of
Correze. ^

When she awoke some hours had passed —
the clock told her it was two. She never
thought of moving from her prison. The
rickety white and gold door would have given
way at a push, but to her it was inviolate. She
had been reared to give obedience in the spirit
as well as the letter.

She thought no one had ever had so beautiful
a day as this morning of hers. She would
have believed it a dream, only there were her
rose and the homely heads of the lavender.

The German brought Euclid and Sophocles

into the prison-chamber, but Vere put them
gently away.

I cannot study to-day,' she said. It was
the first time in her life that she had ever said
so.

The Fraulein-went away creeping, and believing
that the heavens would fall. Vere, with
her hands clasped behind her head, leaned back
and watched the white clouds come and go
above the sea, and fancied the air was still full
of that marvellous and matchless voice which
had told her a!: last a.11 that music could be.

He is the angel Raphael ! ' she said to
herself. It seemed to her that he could not be
mere mortal man.

Her couch was close to the glass doors of
the room, and they opened into one of the
scroll-work balconies which embroidered the
fantastic front of the Chalet Ludoff. The room
was nominally upstairs, but literally it was
scarcely eight feet above the ground without.

It was in the full hot sunshine of early
afternoon when the voice she dreamed of^said
softly, ' Mademoiselle Herbert ! '


Yere roused herself with a start, and saw
the arm of Correze leaning on the balcony and
his eyes looking at her ; he was standing on the
stone perron below.

I came to bid you farewell he said softly.
I go to Germany to-night. You are a captive,
I know, so 1 dared to speak to you thus.'

You go away ! '

To the girl it seemed as if darkness fell over
the sea and shore.

Ah ! we princes of art are but slaves of the
ring after all. Yes, my engagements have been
made many months ago : to Baden, to Vienna,
to Moscow, to Petersburgh ; then Paris and
London once more. It may be long ere we
meet, if ever we do, and I dare to call myself
your friend, though you never saw my face
until this morning.'

'You have been so good to me,' murmured
Yere ; and then stopped, not knowing what
ailed her in the sudden sense of sorrow, loss,
and pain, which came over her as she listened.

Oh, alto ! ' laughed Correze, lifting himself
a little higher, and leaning more easily on

the iron of the balcony. ' I found you a pair
of wooden shoes, a cup of milk, and a cabbage
rose. Sorry things to offer to an enchanted
princess who had missed her road ! My dear,
few men will not be willing to be as good to
you as you will let them be. You are a child.
You do not know your power. I wonder what
teachers you will have ? I wish you could go
untaught, but there is no hope of that.'

Vere was silent. She did not understand
what he meant. She understood only that he
was going far away — this brilliant and beautiful
stranger who had come to her with the
morning sun.

Mademoiselle Herbert,' continued Correze,
I shall sound like a preacher, and I am but a
graceless singer, but try and keep yourself " unspotted
from the world." Those are holy words,
and I am not a holy speaker, but try and remember
them. This world you will be launched
in does no woman good. It is a world of moths.
Half the moths are burning themselves in
feverish frailty, the other half are corroding
and consuming all that they touch. Do not

become of either kind. You are made for
something better than a moth. You will be
tempted ; you will be laughed at ; you will be
surrounded with the most insidious sort of evil
example, namely, that which does not look
like evil one whit more than the belladonna
berry looks like death. The women of your
time are not, perhaps, the worst the world has
seen, but they are certainly the most contemptible.
They have dethroned grace ; they have
driven out honour; they have succeeded in
making men ashamed of the sex of their
mothers ; and they have set up nothing in the
stead of all they have destroyed except a feverish
frenzy for amusement and an idiotic imitation
of vice. You cannot understand now,
but you will see it — too soon. They will try
to make you like them. Do not let them succeed.
You have truth, innocence, and serenity
treasure them. The women of your day will
ridicule you, and tell you it is an old-fashioned
triad, out of date like the Graces ; but do not
listen. It is a triad without which no woman
is truly beautiful, and without which no man's

love for her can be pure. I would fain say
more to you, but I am afraid to tell you what
you do not know ; and woe to those by whom
such knowledge first comes ! Mon enfant,
adieu.'

He had laid a bouquet of stephanotis and
orchids on the sill of the window at her feet,
and had dropped out of sight before she had
realised his farewell.

When she strained her eyes to look for him,
he had already disappeared. Tears blinded her
sight, and fell on the rare blossoms of his gift.

I will try — I will try to be what he wishes,'
she murmured to the flowers. ' If only I knew
better what he meant.'

The time soon came when she knew too well
what he meant.

Now she sat with the flowers in her lap and
wondered wearily, and sobbed silently, as if her
heart would break.

Correze was gone.

At sunset Lady Dolly returned out of temper.
They had been becalmed, again for two hours,
the sea all of a sudden becoming like oil, just to
spite her, and they had played to wile away the
time, and the Grand Duchess had won a great
deal of her money, besides smoking every one
of her cigarettes and letting the case fall through
the hatchway.

I will never go out with that odious Russian
again — never ! the manners of a cantiniere and
the claws of a croupier ! ' she said in immeasurable
disgust of the august lady whom she had
idolised in the morning ; and she looked in at
the little study, when she reached home, to

allay her rage with making some one uncomfortable.


'Are you sufficiently ashamed of yourself,
Vera? ' she said as she entered.

Yere rose, rather uneasily, and with soft sad
dewy eyes.

Why should I be ashamed mother ? ' she
said simply.

Why ? why ? you ask why ? after compromising
yourself, as you did this morning? '

Compromise ? '

Yere had never heard the word. Women
who were compromised were things that had
never been heard of at Bulmer.

Do not repeat what I say. It is the rudest
thing you can do,' said her mother sharply.
Yes, compromised, hideously compromised —
and with Correze, of all persons in the world !
You must have been mad ! '

Yere looked at her stephanotis and orchids,
and her young face grew almost stern.

If you mean I did anything wrong, I did
no wrong. It was all accident, and no one
could have been so kind as — he — was.'

The ear of Lady Dolly, quick at such signs,
caught the little pause before the pronoun.

The world never believes in accidents,' she
said chillily. ' You had better understand that
for the future. To be seen coming home in a
boat early in the morning all alone with such a
man as Correze would be enough to ruin any
girl at the outset of her life — to ruin her ! '

Yere's eyes opened in bewildered surprise.
She could not follow her mother's thoughts at
all, nor could she see where she had been in
any error.

Correze, of all men upon earth ! ' echoed
her mother. ' Good heavens ! do you know he
is a singer ? '

Yes,' said Yere softly ; hearing all around
her as she spoke the sweet liquid melody of
that perfect voice which had called the skylark
' a little brother.'

'A great singer, I grant; the greatest, if
you like, but still a singer, and a man with a
hundred love affairs in every capital he enters !
And to come home alone with such a man after
hours spent alone with him. It was madness,

Vera ; and it was worse, it was forward, impudent,
maidenly 1 '

The girl's pale face flushed ; she lifted lier
head with a certain indignant pride.

You must sap what sou will, mother,' she
said quietly. ' But that is very untrue.'

Don't dare to answer me,' said Lady Dolly,
I tell you it was disgraceful, disgraceful, and
goodness knows how ever I shall explain it
away. Helene has been telling the story to
everybody, and given it seven-leagued boots
already. True ! who cares what is true or what
is not true — it is what a thing looTcs I I believe
everybody says you had come from Havre with
Correze ! '

Yere stood silent and passive, her eyes on
her stephanotis and orchids.

Where did you get those extravagant

flowers? Surely Jack never ' said Lady

Dolly suspiciously.

He brought them,' answered Yere.

Correze ? Whilst I was away ? '

Yes. He spoke to me at the balcony.'

'Well, my dear, you do Bulmer credit!

No Spanish or Italian heroine out of his own
operas could conduct herself more audaciously
on the first day of her liberty. It is certainly
what I always thought would come of your
grandmother's mode of education. Well, go
upstairs in your bedroom and do not leave it
until I send for you. Neo, you can't take
flowers upstairs ; they are very unwholesome —
as unwholesome as the kindness of Correze.'

Yere went, wistfully regarding her treasures;
but she had kept the faded rose and the lavender
in her hand unnoticed.

'After all, I care most for these,' she
thought ; the homely season things that had
been gathered after the songs.

When the door had closed on her Lady
Dolly rang for her maitre d' hotel.

Pay the Fraulein Schroder three months'
salary, and send her away by the first steamer ;
and pay the English servant whatever she
wants and send her by the first steamer. Mind
they are both gone when I wake. And I shall
go to Deauville the day after tomorrow ; probably
I shall never come back here.'

The official bowed, obedient.

As she passed through her drawing-rooms
Lady Dolly took up the bouquet of Correze
and went to her o^vn chamber.

Pick me out the best of those flowers,' she
said to her maid, 'and stick them about allover
me; here and there, you know.'

She was going to dine with the Duchesse de
Sonnaz at Deauville.

As she went to her carriage the hapless
German, quivering and sobbing, threw herself
in her path.

Oh, miladi ! miladi ! ' she moaned. ' It
cannot be true ? You send me not away thus
from the child of my heart? Ten years have
I striven to write the will of God, and the
learning that is better than gold, on that
crystal pure mind, and my life, and my brain,
and my soul I do give '

'You should have done your duty,'
said Lady Dolly, wrapping herself up and
hastening on. 'And you can't complain,
my good Schroder; you have got three
months' in excess of your wages,' and she drew

her swan's-down about her and got into her
carriage,

'Now, on my son, that was downright
vulgar,' muttered John Jura. ' Hang it all !
it was vulgar ! '

But he sighed as he said it to himself, for
his experience had taught him that highborn
ladies could be very vulgar when they were
moved to be ill-natured.

Correze was at the villa.

She saw him a moment before dinner, and
gave him her prettiest smile.

Oh, Correze ! what flowers ! I stole some
of them, you see. You would turn my child's
head. I am glad you are going to Baden ! '

He laughed, and said something graceful
and novel, turned on the old mater pulchra,filia
pulchrior.

The dinner was not too long, and was very
gay. After it everybody wandered out into the
gardens, which were hung with coloured lamps
and had musicians hidden in shrubberies, discoursing
sweet sounds to rival the nightingales.
The light was subdued, the air delicious, the

sea glimmered pliosplioresceiit and starlit at
the end of dusk^^ alleys and rose-ling walks.
Lady Dolly wandered about with Series
Zouroff and others, and felt quite romantic,
whilst Holm Jura yawned and sulked; she
never allowed him to do anything else while
she was amusing herself.

Correze joined her and her Russians in a little
path between walls of the quatre-saison rose and
a carpet of velvety turf. The stars sparkled
through the rose-leaves, the sound of the sea
stole up the silent little alley. Lady Dolly
looked very pretty in a dress of dead white, with
the red roses above her and their dropped
leaves at her feet. She was smoking, which
was a pity — the cigarette did not agree with
the roses.

'Madame,' cried Correze, as he sauntered
on and disengaged her a little from the others,
I have never seen anything so exquisite as
your young daughter. Will you believe that I
mean no compliment when I say so ? '

My deal' Correze ! She is only a child ! '

She is not a child. What would you say.

madame, if I told you that for full five minutes
I had the madness to think to-day that I would
pay my forfeit to Baden and Vienna for the
sake of staying here ? '

Heaven forbid you should do any such
thing ! You would turn her head in a week ! '

What would you say, madame,' he continued
with a little laugh, disregarding her
interruption, ' what would you say if I told you
that I, Correze, had actually had the folly to
fancy for five minutes that a vagabond nightingale
might make his nest for good in one virgin
heart ? What would you say, miladi ? '

My dear Correze, if you were by any
kind of possibility talking seriously ' —

I am talking quite seriously — or let us suppose
that I am. What would you say, miladi ? '

I should say, my dear Correze, that you
are too entirely captivating to be allowed to
say such things even in an idle jest, and that
you would be always most perfectly charming in
every capacity but one.'

And that one is ? '

As a husband for anybody ! '



I suppose you are right,' said Correze with
a little sigh. 'Will you let me light my
cigarette at yours ? '

An hour later he was on his way to Baden
in the middle hours of the starry fragrant
summer night.

VOL. I.

Eaphael de Correze had said no more than the
truth of himself that morning by the sweetbread
hedge on the edge of the Norman cliffs.

All the papers and old documents that were
needful to prove him the lineal descendant of
the great Savoy family of Correze were safe in
his bureau in Paris, but he spoke no more of
them than he spoke of the many love-letters
and imprudent avowals that were also locked
away in caskets and cabinets in the only place
that in a way could be called his home, his
apartment in the Avenue Marigny. What
was the use? All Marquis and Peer of Savoy
though he was by descent he was none the less

only a tenor singer, and in his heart of hearts
he was too keenly proud to drag his old descent
into the notice of men merely that he might
look like a frivolous boaster, an impudent teller
of empty tales. Noblesse oblige, he had often
said to himself, resisting temptation in his attempted
career, but no one ever heard him say
aloud that paternoster of princes. His remembrance
of his race had been always with him
like a talisman, but he wore it like a talisman,
secretly, and shy even of having his faith in it
known.

Correze, with all his negligence and gaiety,
and spoilt child of the world though he was,
appraised very justly the worth of the world
and his place in it.

He knew very well that if a rain-storm on a
windy night were to quench his voice in his
throat for ever, all his troops of lovers and
friends would fall away from him, and his name
drop down into darkness like any shooting star
on an August night. He never deceived himself.


^ I am only the world's favourite plaything,'

£2

he would say to himself, ' If I lost my voice, I
should be served like the nightingale in Hans
Andersen's story. Oh! I do not blame the
world — things are always so ; only it is well to
remember it. It serves, like Yorick's skull, or
Philip's slave, to remind one that one is mortal.'

The remembrance gave him force, but it
also gave him a tinge of bitterness, so far as any
bitterness is ever possible to a sunny, generous,
and careless nature, and it made him before
everything an artist.

When he was very insolent to grand people
which he often was in the caprice of celebrity
those people said to one another ' Ah ! that
is because he thinks himself Marquis de Correze.'
But they were wrong. It was because he knew
himself a great artist.

The scorn of genius is the most boundless
and the most arrogant of all scorn, and he had
it in him very strongly. The world said he
was extravagantly vain ; the world was wrong ;
yet if he had been, it would have been excusable.
Women had thrown themselves into his
arms from his earliest youth for sake of his

beautiful face, before his voice had been heard ;
and when his voice had captured Europe there
was scarcely any folly, any madness, any
delirium, any shame that women had not been
ready to rush into for his sake, or for the mere
sight of him and mere echo of his song.

There is no fame on earth so intoxicating,
so universal, so enervating, as the fame of a
great singer ; as it is the most uncertain and
unstable of all, the most evanescent and most
fugitive, so by compensation is it the most
delightful and the most gorgeous; rouses the
multitude to a height of rapture as no other art
can do, and makes the dull and vapid crowds
of modern life hang breathless on one voice, as
in Greece, under the violet skies, men hearkened
to the voice of Pindar or of Sappho.

The world has grown apathetic and purblind.
Critics still rave and quarrel before a
canvas, but the nations do not care ; quarries
of marble are hewn into various shapes, and the
throngs gape before them and are indifferent ;
writers are so many that their writings blend
in the public mind in a confused phantasmagoria

where the colours have run into one
another and the lines are all waved and indistinct
; the singer alone still keeps the old
magic power, Hie beauty that was Athens'
and the glory that was Eome's/ still holds the
divine cadences, still sways the vast thronged
auditorium, till the myriads hold their breath
like little children in delight and awe. The
great singer alone has the old magic sway of
fame ; and if he close his lips ' the gaiety of
nations is eclipsed,' and the world seems empty
and silent like a wood in which the birds are
all dead.

It is a supreme power, and may well intoxicate
a man.

Correze had been as little delirious as any
who have drunk of the philtre of a universal
fame, although at times it had been too strong for
him, and had made him audacious, capricious,
inconstant, and guilty of some follies ; but his
life was pure from any dark reproach.

Soyez gentilhomme,' his father had said to
him in the little hut on the Pennine Alps, with
the snow-fields severing them from all other

life than their own, and had said it never
thinking that his boy would be more than at
best a village priest or teacher; the bidding-had
sunk into the mind of the child, and the
man had not forgotten it now that Europe was
at his feet, and its princes but servants who had
to wait his time ; and he liked to make them
wait. 'Perhaps that is not gentilhomme,' he
would say in reproach to himself, but it diverted
him and he did it very often ; most often when
he thought angrily that he was but like Hans
Andersen's nightingale, the jewelled one, that
was thrown aside and despised when once its
spring was snapped and broken. If he were only
that, he was now at the moment when emperor
and court thought nothing in heaven or on
earth worth hearing but the jewelled nightingale,
and ' the crowds in the streets hummed his
song.' Yet as the night train bore him through
the level meadows, and cornfields glistening in
the moonlight, and the hush of a sleeping world,
his eyes were dim and his heart was heavy, and
on the soft cushions of the travelling bed they
had given him he could not find rest.

The moths will corrupt her,' he thought,
sadly and wistfully. ' The moths will eat all
that fine delicate feeling away, little by little ;
the moths of the world will eat the unselfishness
first, and then the innocence, and then the
honesty, and then the decency ; no one will see
them eating, no one will see the havoc being
wrought ; but little by little the fine fabric
will go, and in its place will be dust. Ah, the
pity of it ! The pity of it ! The webs come
out of the great weaver's loom lovely enough,
but the moths of the world eat them all. One
weeps for the death of children, but perhaps the
change of them into callous men and worldly
women is a sadder thing to see after all.'

His heart was heavy.

Was it love ? No ; he fancied not ; it
could not be. Love with him — an Almaviva as
much off the stage as on it — had been a
charming, tumultuous, victorious thing; a
concession rather to the weakness of the women
who sought him than to his own; the
chief, indeed, but only one amongst many
other distractions and triumphs.

It was not love that made his heart go out
to that fahr-haired child, with the thoughtful
questioning eyes. It was rather pity, tenderness,
reverence for innocence, rage against the
world which would so soon change her ; — poor
little moth, dreaming of flying up to heavens
light, and born to sink into earth's commonest
fires !

Correze did not esteem women highly.
They had caressed him into satiety, and
wooed him till his gratitude was more than
half contempt ; but in his innermost heart,
where his old faiths dwelt unseen by even
his best friends, there was the fancy of what
a woman should be, might be, unspotted by
the world, and innocent in thought, as well as
deed.

Such a woman had seemed to him to be in
the girl whom he had found by the sea, as
the grand glory of the full white rose lies folded
in the blush-rose bud.

It was too absurd !

Her mother had been right, quite right.

The little frivolous, artificial woman, with

her perruque and her papelitos, had said all that
society would say. She had been wise, and
he, in a passing moment of sentiment, a fool.
He had scarcely really considered the full
meaning of his own words, and where they
would have led him had they been taken
seriously.

He thought now of all the letters lying in
those cabinets and caskets at Paris.

What a burnt-sacrifice of notepaper I
should have had to make ! ' he said to himself,
and smoked a little, and tried to ridicule himself.

Was he, Correze, the lover of great rulers of
society, the hero of a hundred and a thousand
intrigues and romances, in love with a mere
child, because she had serious eyes and no
shoes and stockings? bewitched by a young
girl who had sat half an hour beside him by a
sweetbread hedge on a cliff by the sea ? It was
too absurd.

From Baden there had come an impatient
summons from a dark-haired duchess of the
Second Empire, who fancied that she reigned
over his life because he reigned over hers like

a fatality, an imperious and proud woman
whom the lamps in the Avenue Marigny had
shone on as she stole on foot, muffled and
veiled, to hide her burning face on his breast;
he thought of her where she was waiting for
him, and a little shudder of disgust went over
him.

He threw open the window of his bed
carriage, and leaned his head out, to meet the
midnight wind.

The train was passing a little village, a few
cottages, a pond, a mill, a group of willows
silvery in the starlight. From the little green
gardens there came a scent of sweetbread and
hedge roses.

'Shall I smell that smell all my life?' he
thought impatiently.

Lady Dolly had a very dear friend. Of course
she had five hundred dear friends, but this one
she was really fond of; that is to say, she never
said anything bad of her, and only laughed at
her good naturedly when she had left a room ;
and this abstinence is as strong a mark of sincerity
nowadays, as dying for another used to
be in the old days of strong feelings and the
foolish expression of them.

This friend was her dear Adine, otherwise
Lady Stoat of Stitchley, who had just won the
honour of the past year's season by marrying
her daughter (a beauty) to a young marquis,
who, with the small exceptions of being a

drunkard, a fool, and a brute, was everything
that a mother's soul could desire ; and all the
mothers' souls in the great world had accordingly
burned for him passionately, and Lady
Stoat had won him.

Lady Stoat was as much revered as a
maternal model of excellence in her time as
the mother of the Gracchus in hers. She was a
gentle-looking woman, with a very soft voice,
which she never raised under any provocation.
She had a will of steel, but she made it look
like a blossoming and pliant reed; she was
very religious and strongly ritualistic.

When Lady Dolly awoke the next morning,
with the vague remembrance of something very
unpleasant having happened to her, it was to
this friend that she fled for advice as soon as
she was dressed ; having for that purpose to
drive over to Deauville, where Lady Stoat, who
thought Trouville vulgar, had a charming little
place, castellated, coquettish, Gothic, Chinese,
Moorish, all kinds of things, in a pretty pellmell
of bonbon-box architecture, set in a frame
of green turf and laurel hedges and roundheaded

acacias, and with blazing geranium
beds underneath its gilded balconies and marqueterie
doors. Lady Dolly had herself driven
over in the Due de Dinant's ]pander with his
four ponies, and while he went to find out some
friends and arrange the coming races, she took
her own road to the Maison Perle.

'Adine always knows,' she thought. She
was really fond of her Adine, who was many
years older than herself. Bat for her Adine,
certain little bits of nonsense-and imprudence
in Lady Dolly's feverish little life might have
made people talk, and given trouble to Mr.
Vanderdecken, absorbed as he might be in
Java, Japan, or Jupiter.

Lady Stoat of Stitch ley was one of those
invaluable characters who love to do good for
good's own sake, and to set things straight for
the mere pleasure of being occupied. As some
persons of an old-maidish or old-bachelor turn
of mind will go far out of their way to smoothe
a crease or remove a crumb, though neither be
marring their own property, so would Lady
Stoat go far out of her way to prevent a

scandal, reconcile two enemies, or clear a
tangled path. It was her way of amusing herself.
She had a genius for management. She
was a clever tactician, and her tactics interested
her, and employed her time agreeably.
If anyone in her world wanted a marriage arranged,
a folly prevented, a disgrace concealed,
or a refractory child brought to reason. Lady
Stoat of Stitchley would do it in the very best
possible manner.

It is only my duty,' she would say in her
hushed melodious monotonous voice, and nearly
everybody thought Lady Stoat the modern
substitute of a saint on earth.

To this saint now went Lady Dolly with her
troubles and her tale.

What can I do with her, dearest ? ' she
cried plaintively, in the pretty little morning
room, whose windows looked over the geranium
beds to the grey sea.

Lady Stoat was doing crewel work -, a pale,
slight, gracefully made woman with small
straight features, and the very sweetest and
saddest of smiles.

What young men are there ? ' said Lady
Stoat, now in response, still intent on her crewel
work. ' I have not thought about them at all since
the happiness of my own treasure was secured.
By the bye, I heard from Gwen this morning ;
she tells me she has hopes — Our Mother in
heaven has heard my prayers. Imagine, love,
my becoming a granada ! It is what I
long so for ! — just a silly old granada spoiling
all her pets ! I feel I was born to be a
granada ! '

I am so glad, how very charming ! ' murmured
Lady Dolly, vaguely and quite indifferent.
' I am so terribly afraid Vere
won't please, and I am so afraid of this affair
with Correze.'

'What affair? with whom?' asked Lady
Stoat of Stichley, waking from her dreams of
being a granada.

Whereon she told it, making it look very
odd and very bad indeed, in the unconscious
exaggeration which accompanied Lady Dolly's
talk, as inevitably as a great streak of foam
precedes and follows the track of a steamer.

Lady Stoat was rather amused than
shocked.

It is very like Correze, and he is the most
dangerous man in the world ; everybody is in
love with him ; Gwendolen was, but all that is
nothing ; it is not as if he were one of us.'

He is one of us ! He goes everywhere ! '

'Oh! goes! — well; that is because people
like to ask him — society is a pigsty — but all
that does not alter his being a singer.'

He is a marquis, you know, they say ! '

'AU singers are marquises, if you like to
believe them. My dear Dolly, you cannot
be serious in being afraid of Correze? If
you are, all the more reason to marry her at
once.'

She is not the style that anybody likes at
all nowadays,' replied Lady Dolly, in a sort of
despair. ' She is not the style of the day at aU,
you know. She has great natural distinction,
but I don't think people care for that, and they
like chien. She will always look like a gentlewoman,
and they like us best when we don't.
I have a conviction that men will be afraid of
VOL. I. L

her. Is there any thing more fatal ? Vere will
never look like a helle 'petite, in a tea-gown, and
smoke, never ! She has gone a hundred years
back, being brought up by that horrid old
woman. You could fancy her going to be
guillotined in old lace like Marie-Antoinette.
What can I do?'

Keep her with you six months, dear,' said
the friend, who was a woman of some humour.
And I don't think poor Maries Antoinette had
any lace left to wear.'

Of course I must keep her with me,' said
Lady Dolly with exasperation, who was not a
woman of humour, and who did not see the
jest.

Lady Stoat reflected a moment. She liked
arranging things, whether they closely concerned
her or not.

There is the Chambre's son ? ' she said
hesitatingly.

I know ! But they will want such a dower,
and Yere has nothing— nothing ! '

But if she be a beauty ?'

She will be beautiful ; she won't be a

beauty ; not in the way men like now. She
will always look cold.'

Do they dislike that ? Not in their wives
I think ; my Gwen looks very cold said her
friend ; then added with an innocent impassiveness,
'You might marry her to Jura.'

Lady Dolly laughed and coloured.

Poor Jack ! He hates the very idea of
marriage ; I don't think he will ever '

They all hate it,' said Lady Stoat tranquilly.
' But they do it when they are men of
position ; Jura will do it like the rest. What
do you think of Serge Zouroff ? '

Lady Dolly this time did not laugh; she
turned white underneath Fiver's bloom ; her
pretty sparkling eyes glanced uneasily.

Zouroff ! ' she repeated vaguely, ' Zouroff ! '

I think I should try,' answered Lady Stoat
calmly. ' Yes ; I do think I should try. By
the way, take her to Felicite ; you are going
there, are you not ? It would be a great thing
for you, dear, to marry her this year; you
would find it such a bore in the season ; don't
I know what it is ! And for you ^ so young as
l3

you are, to go to balls with a demoiselle a
marier ! — my poor little puss, you would die
of it.'

I am sure I shall as it is ! ' said Lady
Dolly; and her nerves gave way, and she
cried.

Make Zouroff marry her,' said Lady Stoat
soothingly, as if she were pouring out drops of
chloral for a fretful child.

^ Make Zouroff ! ' echoed Lady Dolly, with
a certain intonation that led Lady Stoat to look
at her quickly.

Has she done naughty things that she has
not told me,' thought her confidante. ' No, I
do not fancy so. Poor little pussy ! she is too
silly not to be transparent.'

Aloud, she said merely :

^ Zouroff is middle-aged now ; Nadine would
be glad to see him take any one ; she would not
oppose it. He must marry some time, and I
don't know anybody else so good as he.'

^ Good ! ' ejaculated Lady Dolly faintly.
She wa;? still startled and agitated, and strove
to hide thai "^^he was so. ' Vere would never,'

\

she murmured ; ' you don't know her ; she is the
most dreadful child '

*You must bring her to me,' said Lady
Stoat.

She was very successful with girls. She
never scolded them ; she never ridiculed them ;
she only influenced them in a gentle, imperceptible,
sure way that, little by little, made
them feel that love and honour were silly
things, and that all that really mattered was
to have rank and to be rich, and to be envied
by others.

Lady Stoat never said this; never said,
indeed, anything approaching it, but all girls
that she took any pains with learned it by
heart, nevertheless, as the gospel of their generation.


It was her own religion ; she only taught
what she honestly believed.

A little comforted. Lady Dolly left her
calming presence; met her little duke and
breakfasted with him merrily at an hotel, and
drove back to her own clidlet to dress for a
dinner at the Maison Normande.

The doors of Felicite would not open until
the first day of September, and there were still
some dozen days of August yet to pass, and on
those days Vere was to be seen occasionally
by her mother's side on the beach, and in the
villas, and at the races at Deauville, and was
clad by the clever directions of Adrienne in
charming, youthful dresses as simple as they
were elegant. She was taken to the Casino,
where the high-born young girls of her own
age read, or worked, or played with the
petits chevaux ; she was made to walk up and
down the planks, where her innocence brushed
the shoulders of Casse-une-croute, the last new
villany out in woman, and her fair cheeks felt
the same sunbeams and breeze that fell on all
the faded species a quinze sous. She was taken
to the hal des heres, and felfc a pang that was
older than her years at seeing those little
frizzed and furrowed flirts of five, and those
vain little simpering dandies of three.

Oh, the poor, poor little children ! ' she
thought, ' they will never know what it is to
be young ! '

She, even in monastic old Bnlmer, had
been left a free, open-air, natural, honest child's
life. Her own heart here was oppressed and
lonely. She missed her faithful old friends ;
she took no pleasure in the romp and racket
that was round her ; she understood very little
of all that she saw, but the mere sight of it
hurt her. Society, to this untutored child of
the Northumbrian moors, looked so grotesque
and so vulgar. This Trouville mob of fine ladies
and adventuresses, princes and blackness, ministers
and dentists, reigning sovereigns and
queens of the theatres, seemed to her a Saturnalia
of Folly, and its laugh hurt her more
than a blow would have done.

Her mother took her out but little, and the
less that she went the less troubled she was.
That great mass of varicoloured, noisy life, so
pretty as a spectacle, but so deplorable as humanity,
dismayed and offended her. She heard
that these ladies of Deauville, with their painted
brows, their high voices, their shrill laughter,
their rickety heels, were some of the greatest
ladies of Europe; but, to the proud temper

and the delicate taste of the child, they seemed
loathsome.

You are utterly unsympathetic ! ' said her
mother, disgusted, ' frightfully unsympathetic !
You are guide, positive, puritan ! You have
not a grain of adaptability. I read the other
day somewhere that Madame Eecamier, who
was always called the greatest beauty of our
great-grandmothers' times, was really nothing
at all to look at — quite ordinary; but she did
smile so in everybody's face, and listen so to
all the bores, that the world pronounced her a
second Helen. As for you — handsome though
you are, and you really are quite beautiful they
say — you look so scornful of everything, and so
indignant at any little nonsense, that I should
not wonder in the least if you never even got
called a beauty at all.'

Lady Dolly paused to see the effect of the
most terrible prediction that it was in female
power to utter. Vere was quite unmoved ; she
scarcely heard.

She was thinking of that voice, clear as the
ring of gold, which had said to her :

Keep yourself unspotted from the world.'
^ If the world is nothing better than this, it
must be very easy to resist it,' she thought in
her ignorance.

She did not know that from these swamps
of flattery, intrigue, envy, rivalry, and emulation
there rises a miasma which scarcely the
healthiest lungs can withstand. She did not
know that though many may be indifferent to
the tempting of men, few indeed are impenetrable
to the sneer and the smile of women ;
that to live your own life in the midst of the
world is a harder thing than it was of old to
withdraw to the Thebaid ; that to risk ' looking
strange ' requires a courage perhaps cooler and
higher than the soldier's or the saint's; and
that to stand away from the contact and the
custom of your ' set ' is a harder and a sterner
work than it was of old to go into the sanctuary
of La Trappe or Port Royal.

Autres temps, autres moeurs — but we too have
our martyrs.

Felicite was a seaside chateau of the Princes
Zouroff, which they had bought from an old

decayed French family, and had transformed
into a veritable castle of fairy-land. They came
to it for about three months in as many years ;
but for beauty and loveliness it had no equal,
even amongst the many summer holiday-houses
scattered up and down the green coast, from
Retreat to the Rochers de Calvados. This year it
was full of people : the Princess Nadine Nela-
guide was keeping open house there for her
brother Sergius Zouroff. White sailed yachts
anchored in its bay; chasseurs in green and
gold beat its woods; riding parties and driving
parties made its avenues bright with colour
and movement ; groups like Watteau pictures
wandered in its gardens; there was a little
troupe of actors from Paris for its theatre ; life
went like a song; and Serge Zouroif would
have infinitely preferred to be alone with
some handsome Michigan women and many
flagons of brandy.

Madame Nelaguine was a little woman, who
wore a wig that had little pretence about it ;
and smoked all day long, and read salutes
with zest, and often talked them ; yet Madame

Nelaguine could be a power in politics when
she chose, could cover herself with diamonds
and old laces, and put such dignity into her
tiny person that she once crushed into utter
nervousness a new-made empress, whom she
considered varnish. She was wonderfully clever,
wonderfully learned ; she was cunning, and she
could be cruel, yet she had in her own way a
kind heart ; she was a great musician and a
great mathematician ; she had been an ambassadress,
and had distinguished herself at great
courts. She had had many intrigues of all
kinds, but had never been compromised by anyone
of them. She was considerably older than
her brother, and seldom approved of him.

On pent se debauched, mats on doit se
debauched avec de esprit,' she would say : and
the modern ways of vice seemed to her void of
wit. ' You are not even amused,' she would
add. ' If you were amused one could comprehend,
but you are not. You spend your
fortunes on creatures that you do not even like ;
you spend your nights in gambling that does
not even excite you ; you commit vulgarities

that do not even divert you, only because everybody
else does the same ; you caricature
monstrous vices so that you make even those
no longer terrible, but ridiculous ; and if you
fight a duel you manage to make it look
absurd, you take a surgeon with you ! You have
no passions. It is passion that dignifies life,
and you do not knows anything about it, any ox
you; you know only infamy. And infamy is
always so dull ; it is never educated. Why do
you copy Vitellius ? Because you have not the
wit to be either Horace or Caesar.'

But Sergius Zouroff did not pay any heed
to his cleverer sister. His Urine mines, his
vast plains of wheat, his forests and farms, his
salt and his copper, and all that he owned,
were treasures well-nigh inexhaustible, and
although prodigal he was shrewd. He was
not a man to be easily ruined, and, as long as
his great wealth and his great position gave
him a place that was almost royal in the society
of Europe, he knew very well that he could
copy Vitellius as he chose without drawing
any chastisement on him. In a cold and

heavy way lie had talent, and with that talent
he contrived to indulge all excesses in any vice
that tempted him, yet remain without that
social stigma that has marked before now
princes wholly royal.

Everywhere they are glad to see me, and
everybody would marry me tomorrow,' he
would say, with a shrug of his shoulders, when
his sister rebuked him.

To Felicite drove Lady Dolly with Vere by
her side. Vere had been given a white dress
and a broad hat with white drooping feathers ;
she looked very pale, her mother supposed it
was with excitement.

She thought it the moment to offer a little
maternal advice. * Now, dear, this will be quite
going into the world for you. Do remember
one or two things. Do try to look less grave ;
men hate a serious woman. And if you want
to ask anything, don't come to me, because I'm
always busy ; ask Adrienne or Lady Stoat.
You have seen what a sweet dear motherly
creature she is. She won't mind telling you
anything. There is a charming girl there, too,

an American heiress, Fuscliia Leach ; a horrible
name, but a lovely creature, and very clever.
Watch her and learn all you can from her.
Tout Paris lost its head after her utterly this
last winter. She'll marry anybody she chooses.
Pray don't make me ashamed of you. Don't be
sensational, don't be stupid, don't be pedantic ;
and, for mercy's sake, don't make any scenes.
Never look surprised ; never show a dislike to
anybody ; never seem shocked, if you feel so.
Be civil all round, it's the safest way in society ;
and pray don't talk about mathematics and the
Bible. I don't know that there's anything
more I can tell you : you must find it all out
for yourself. The world is like whist, reading
can't teach it. Try not to blunder, that's all,
and — do watch Fuschia Leach.'

Is she so very beautiful and good ? '
Good ? ' echoed Lady Dolly, desorientee and
impatient. ^ I don't know, I am sure. No, I
shouldn't think she was, by any means. She
doesn't go in for that. She is a wonderful
social success, and men rave about her. That
is what I meant. If you watch her she

will do you more good than I could if I lead
patience to talk to you for ever. You will see
what the girl of your time must be if she want
to please.'

Yere's beautiful mouth curled contemptuously.


I do not want to please.'

That is an insane remark said LadyDoUy
coldly. * If you don't, what do you live for ? '

Yere was silent. At dark old Bulmer she
had been taught that there were many other
things to live for, but she was afraid to say so,
lest she should be ' pedantic ' again.

That is just the sort of silly thing I hate to
hear a girl say, or a woman either. Americans
never say such things,' said Lady Dolly with
vivacious scorn. 'It's just like your father,
who always would go out in the rain when
dinner was ready, or read to somebody who
had the scarlet fever, or give the best claret to
a ploughboy with a sore throat. It is silly ;
it is unnatural. You should want to please.
Why were we put in this world ? '

To make others happier,' Yere suggested

timidly, her eyes growing dim at her father's
name.

Did it make me happier to have the
scarlet fever brought home to me ? ' said Lady
Dolly, irrelevantly and angrily. ' That is just
like poor Yere's sort of illogical reasonings ; I
remember them so well. You are exactly like
him. I despair of you, I quite despair of you,
unless Fuschia Leach can convert you."

Is she my age ? '

A year or two older, I think ; she is perfect
now; at five and-t wen ty she will be
hideous, but she will dress so well it won't
matter. I know for a fact, that she refused
3-our cousin. Mull, last month. She was very
right; he is awfully poor. Still, she'd have
been a duchess, and her father kept a bar ; soit
shows you what she can do.'

'What is a bar?'

Oh ! pray don't keep asking me questions
like that. You make my head whirl. A bar
is where they sell things to drink, and her
brothers have a great pig-killing place " down
west," wherever that is.' , . . v^-

And she refused my cousin ! '

Dear, yes ! This is the charming topsy-turvy
world we live in — you will get used toit,
my dear. They made a fuss because a tailor,
got to court last year. I am sure I don't
know why they did ; if he'd been an American
tailor nobody's have said anything ; they
wouldn't even have thought it odd. All the
world over you meet them ; they get in the
swim somehow ; they have such heaps of
money, and their women know how to wear
things. They always look like — what they
shouldn't look like — to be sure ; but so most of
us do, and men prefer it.'

Vere understood not at all ; but she did not
venture again to ask for an explanation.

Her mother yawned and brushed the flies
away pettishly, and called to Lord Jura, who
was riding beside their carriage, and had lagged
a trifle behind in the narrow sandy road that
ran level between green hedges. The high
metal roof and gilded vanes of Felicite were
already shining above the low rounded
masses of distant woods. It stood on the

VOL. I. M

sea-coast, a little way from Villers-sur-
Mer.

Vere did not understand why Lord Jura
always went with them as naturally as the
maids did and the dressing-boxes ; but he was
kind, if a little rough. She liked him." Only
why did her mother call him Jack, and quarrel
with him so, and yet want him always with her ?

Vere thought about it dimly, vaguely, perplexedly,
especially when she saw the frank,
blue eyes of Jura looking at herself, hard, and
long, with a certain sadness and impatience in
the gaze, as if he pitied her.

The reception at Felicite seemed to Vere to
be a whirl of bright hues, pretty faces, and
amiable words. The Princess Nadine Nelaguine
was out on the terrace with her guests, and the
Princess kissed her with effusion, and told her
she was like a Gainsborough picture. The
Princess herself was a fairy-like little woman,
with a bright odd Kalmuck face and two little
brown eyes as bright as a marmoset's. Vere
was presented to so many people that she could
not tell one from another, and she was glad to

be left in her room while her mother, having
got into a wonderful gold-embroidered Watteau
sacque that she called a tea-gown, went to rejoin
the other ladies amongst the roses and the
perfumes, and the late afternoon light.

When Vere herself, three hours later, was
dressed for dinner, and told to tap at her
mother's door, she did not feel nervous, because
it was not in her nature to be easily made so,
but she felt oppressed and yet curious.

She was going into the world.

And the counsels of Correze haunted her.

Lady Dolly said sharply, ' Come in ! ' and
Vere entering, beheld her mother for the first
time in full war-paint and panoply.

Lady Dolly looked sixteen herself. She was
exquisitely painted; she had a gown cut en
coeiir which was as indecent as the heart of
woman could desire; jewels sparkled all over
her ; she was a triumph of art, and looked as
exactly like Colifichet of the Bones in her last
new piece, as even her own soul could aspire todo.


What are you staring at child ? ' she asked

m2

of Vere, who had turned rather pale. ' Don't
you think I look well ? What is the matter ? '

Nothing said Vere, who could not answer
that it hurt her to see so much of her mother's
anatomy unveiled.

You look as if you saw a ghost said Lady
Dolly impatiently ; ' you have such a horrid
way of staring. Come ! '

Vere went silently by her side down the
wide staircase, lighted by black marble negroes
holding golden torches. After the silence, the
stillness, the gloom, of her Northumbrian home,
with the old servants moving slowly through
the dim oak-panelled passages, the brilliance,
the luxury, the glittering lustre, the va et vient
of Felicite seemed like a gorgeous spectacle.
She would have liked to have stood on that
grand staircase, amongst the hothouse flowers,
and looked on it all as on a pageant. But her
mother swept on into the drawing-rooms, and
Vere heard a little murmur of admiration, which
she did not dream was for herself.

Lady Dolly in her way was an artist, and
she had known the right thing to do when she

had had Vere clad in white cachemire, with an
old silver girdle of German work, and in the
coils of her hair a single silver arrow.

Vere was perfect in her stately, serious, yet
childlike grace ; and the women watching her
enter felt a pang of envy.

Sergius ZourofP, her host, advancing, murmured
a ^ divinest belle ! ' and Lady Stoat,
watching from a distant sofa, thought to herself
What a lovely creature ! really it is trying for
poor little pussy.'

Vere went in to her first great dinner. She
said little or nothing. She listened and wondered.
Where she sat she could not see her
mother nor anyone she knew. The young
French diplomatist who took her in tried to
make himself agreeable to her, but she replied
by monosyllables. He thought how stupid
these lovely ingenuous always were. He had not
the open sesame of Correze to the young mute
soul.

Dinner over. Lady Stoat took possession of
her in the charming motherly affectionate way
for which she was celebrated with young girls.

But even Lady Stoat did not make much. way
with lier ; Vere's large serious eyes were calmly
watching everything.

Will you show me which is Miss Leach ? '
she said suddenly. Lady Stoat laughed and
pointed discreetly with a fan.

Who has told you about Fuschia Leach ? *
she said amusedly. ' I will make you known
to her presently ; she may be of use to you.'

Vere's eyes, grave as a child's awakened out
of sleep into the glare of gas, fastened where
her fan had pointed, and studied Miss Leach.
She saw a very lovely person of transparent
colouring, of very small features, of very slight
form, with a skin like delicate porcelain, an
artistic tangle of artistically coloured red gold
hair, a tiny impertinent nose, and a wonderful
expression of mingled impudence, shrewdness,
audacity and resolution. This person had her
feet, on an ottoman, her hands behind her head,
a rosebud in her mouth, and a male group
around her.

I shall not like her; I do not wish to know
her,' said Vere slowly.

My dear, do not say so said Lady Stoat.
'It will sound like jealousy, yon know — one
pretty girl of another '

• She is not a lady,' said Vere once more.

'There you are right,' said Lady Stoat.
Very few people are, my love, nowadays. But
that is just the sort of thing you must not say.
It will get quoted against you, and make you,
make you—oh ! such enemies, my love ! '

Does it matter ? ' said Vere dreamily. She
was wondering what Correze would have thought
or did think of Miss Fuschia Leach.

Does it matter to have enemies ! ' echoed
Lady Stoat. ' Oh, my sweet Vere ! does it
matter whether there is a pin sticking into one
all day ? A pin is a very little thing, no doubt,
but it makes all the difference between comfort
and discomfort ? '

She is not a lady,' said Vere again with a
passing frown on her pretty brows.

Oh, my dear ! if you wait for that ! ' Lady
Stoat's smile expressed that if she did wait for
that she would be more exacting than society.
As for not knowing her — nonsense — you must

not object to anybody who is in the same
house-party with yourself.'

'She is extremely pretty,' added Lady Stoat.
Those American girls so very often are ; but
they are all like the ;pope's de modiste. The
very best of them are only very perfect likenesses
of the young ladies that try the confections
on for us at Pingat's or Worth's, and the
dress has always a sort of look of being the first
toilette they ever had. I don't know why, for
I hear they dress extremely well over there, and
should be used to it, but it has that look, and
they never get rid of it. No, my dear, no ; you
are right. Those new people are not gentlewomen
any more than men's modern manners
are like the Broad Stone of Honour, But do
not say so. They will repeat it, and it will not
sound kind, and unless you can say what is kind,
never say anything.'

I would rather have anyone I did not respect
for an enemy than for a friend,' said Vere
with a child's obstinacy. Lady Stoat smiled.

Phrases my love ! — phrases ! you have so
much to learn, my child, as yet.'

I will not learn of Miss Leach.'

Well, I do not admire her very much
myself. But then I belong to an old school,
you know. I am an old woman, and have
prejudices,' said Lady Stoat sweetly. 'Miss
Leach has the world at her foot, and it amuses
her to kick it about like a tennis ball, and show
her ankles. I daresay you will do the same,
love, in another six months, only you will not
show your ankles. All the difference will be
there.'

And then Lady Stoat, who though she
called herself an old woman would have been
extremely angry if anybody else had called her
so, thought she had done enough for once for
poor little pussy's daughter, and turned to her
own little mild flirtations with a bald and be-ribbon
ambassador.

Vere was left alone, to look and muse.

Men glanced at her and said what a lovely
child she was ; but they kept aloof from her.
They were afraid of an ingenue, and there was
Fuschia Leach, whose laughter was ringing upto
the chandeliers and out to the conservatories

Fuscliia Leach, who had never been an
ingenue, but a coquette at three years old, and
a woman of the world at six.

Jura alone came up and seated himself by
Vere.

How do you like it ? ' he said with an odd
little smile.

'It is very pretty to look at,' answered
Vere.

Ah, to be sure. As good as a play when
you're new to it, and awfully like a treadmill
when you're not. What do you think of
Euschia Leach ? '

Yere remembered Lady Stoat's warning,
and answered merely :

I think she is handsome.'

I believe you ; she threw over your cousin
Mull, as if he were dirty boots ; so she does
heaps of them. I don't know what it is myself;
I think it is her cheek. I always tell
Dolly so — I beg your pardon — I mean your
mother.'

Vere had heard him say ' Dolly ' very often,
and did not know why he apologised.

My mother admires her ? ' she said with
a little interrogation in her voice. Jura
laughed.

'Or says she does. Women always say
they admire a reigning beauty. It 1 jokes well,
you know. They all swear Mrs. Dawtry is
divine, and I'm sure in their hearts they think
her rather ugly than otherwise.'

Who is Mrs. Dawtry ? '

'Don't you know? Good heavens! But,
of course, you don't know anything of our
world. It's a pity you ever should. Touch
pitch — what is it the old saw says? '

It was the regret of Correze, differently
worded.

But the world, as you call it, means men
and women ? It must be what they make it.
They might make it good if they wished,' said
Yere with the seriousness that her mother
detested.

But they don't wish, you see. That is it,'
said Jura with a sigh. ' I don't know how it
is, when once you are in the swim you can't
alter things ; you must just go along with the

rest. One does heaps of things one hates only
because others do them.'

That is very contemptible said Vere, with
the disdain that became her very well coming
on her pretty proud mouth.

'I think we are contemptible,' said Jura
moodily; and to so frank a confession there
was no reply or retort possible, Yere thought.

It is strange ; he said much the same,'
she murmured, half aloud. ' Only he said it
like a poet, and you — speak in such an odd
way.'

How do I speak ? ' asked Jura amused.

^ You speak as if words cost too much, and
you were obliged to use as few and choose as
bald ones as you could find ; English is such
a beautiful language, if you read Milton or
Jeremy Taylor, or Beaumont and Fletcher, or
any of the old divines and dramatists '

She stopped, because Jura laughed.

Divines and dramatists ! My dear child,
we know nothing about such things ; we have
St. Albans and French adaptations ; they're our
reading of divinity and the drama. Who was

he " that talked like a poet while I talk
like a sweep ? '

I did not say you talked like a sweep —
and I meant the Marquis de Correze.'

Oh ! your singer ? Don't call him a Marquis.
He is the prince of tenors, that's all.'

'He is a Marquis,' said Vere, with a certain
coldness. ' They were a very great race.
You can see all about it in the " Livre door "
of Savoy ; they were like the Marquises Costa
de Beauregard, who lost everything in 'ninety-two.
You must have read M. de Beauregard's
beautiful book, Tin homme d'' autrefois ? '

^ Never heard of it. Did the tenor tell you
all that rubbish ? '

Where is mamma, Lord Jura ? ' said Vere.
1 am tired of sitting here.'

'That's a facer,' thought Jura. 'And, by
Jove, very well given for such a baby. I beg
your pardon,' he said aloud. ' Correze shall
be a prince of the blood, if you wish. Your
mother is over there; but I doubt if she'll
thank you to go to her ; she's in the thick of
it with them ; look.'

He meant that Lady Dolly was flirting
very desperately, and enjoying herself very
thoroughly, having nearly as many men about
her as Miss Fuschia Leach.

Vere looked, and her eyes clouded.

^ Then I think I may go to bed. She will
not miss me. Good night.'

'No, she won't miss you. Perhaps other
people will.'

There is no one I know, so how can they ? '
said Vere innocently, and rose to go ; but
Sergius ZourofF, who had approached in the
last moment, barred her passage with a smiling
deference.

'Your host will, Mademoiselle Herbert.
Does my poor house weary you, that you think
of your own room at ten o'clock.'

I always go to bed at ten, monsieur,' said
Vere. ^ It is nothing new for me.'

Let me show you my flowers first,' at last
said Prince Zouroff. ' You know we Russians
born amidst snow and ice, have a passion for
tropical houses ; will you not come ? '

He held out his arm as he spoke. Would

it be rude to refuse? Yere did not know.
She was afraid it would, as he was her host.

She laid her fingers hesitatingly on his
offered arm, and was led through the rooms by-prince
Zouroff.

Fuschia Leach took her hands from behind
her head, and stared ; Lady Dolly would have
turned pale, if she had not been so well
painted ; Lady Stoat put her eye-glass up, and
smiled.

Prince Zouroff had a horror of unmarried
women, and never had been known to pay any
sort of attention to one, not even to his sister's
guest, Fuschia Leach the irresistible.

Prince Zouroff was a tall large man of
seven and thirty ; loosely built, and plain of
feature. He had all the vices, and had them
all in excess, but he was a very polished gentleman
when he chose -, and he was one of the
richest men in Europe, and his family, of
which he was the head, was very near the
throne, in rank and influence ; for twenty years,
ever since he had left the imperial Corps de
Pages, and shown himself in Paris, driving his

team of black Orlofs, lie had been the idolatry,
the aspiration, and the despair of all the
mothers of maidens.

Yere's passage through his drawing-rooms
on his arm was a spectacle so astonishing,
that there was a general lull for a moment in
the conversation of all his guests. It was a
triumph, but Vere was wholly unconscious of
it; which made her charming in the eyes of
the giver of it.

I think that's a case ! ' said Miss Fuschia
Leach to her admirers. She did not care
herself. She did not want Zouroff, high, and
mighty, and rich, and of great fashion though he
was ; she meant to die an English duchess, and
she had only thrown over the unhappy Mull
because she had found out he was poor. ' And
what's the use of being a duchess, if you don't
make a splash ? ' she said very sensibly to his
mother, when they talked it over. She had
flirted with Mull shamelessly, but so she did
with scores of them ; it was her way. She had
brought the way from America. She had
young men about her as naturally as a flycatcher

has ferrets and terriers ; but she meant
to take her time before choosing one of them
for good and all.

What a beautiful child she is,' thought
Prince Zouroff, ' and so indifferent ! Can she
possibly be naughty Dolly's daughter ? '

He was interested, and he, being skilled in
such ways, easily learned the little there was to
know about her, whilst he took her through
his conservatories, and showed her Japan lilies,
Chinese blossoms that changed colour thrice a
day, and orchids of all climes and colours.

The conservatories were really rare, and
pleased her; but Prince Zouroff did not. His
eyes were bold and cold, at once; they were
red too, and there was an odour of brandy on
his breath that came to her through all the
scent of the flowers. She did not like him.
She was grave and silent. She answered
what he asked, but she did not care to stay
there, and looked round for a chance of escape.
It charmed Zouroff, who was so used to see
women throw themselves in his path that he
found no pleasure in their pursuit.

VOL. I. N

'Decidedly she lias been not at all with
naughty Dolly ! ' he said to himself, and looked
at her with so much undisguised admiration in
his gaze, that Yere, looking up from the golden
blossoms of an Odontoglossum, blushed to the
eyes, and felt angry, she could not very well
have told why.

Your flowers are magnificent, and I thank
you, monsieur ; but I am tired, and T will say
good night,' she said quickly, with a little
haughtiness of accent and glance which pleased
Zouroff more than anything had done for
years.

.' I would not detain you unwillingly, mademoiselle,
one moment,' he said, with a low bow
a bow which had some real respect in it.
Pardon me, this is your nearest way. I will
say to miladi that you were tired. To-morrow,
if there be anything you wish, only tell me, it
shall be yours.'

He opened a door that led out of the last
conservatory on to the foot of the great staircase
; and Yere, not knowing whether she were
not breaking all the rules of politeness and

etiquette, bent her head to him and darted like
a swallow np the stairs.

Sergius Zouroff smiled, and strolled back
alone through his drawing-rooms, and went upto
Lady Dolly, and cast himself into a long,
low chair by her side.

^Ma chere, your lovely daughter did not
appreciate my flowers or myself. She told me
to tell you she was tired, and has gone to her
room. She is beautiful, very beautiful ; but I
cannot say that she is complimentary.'

She is only a child,' said Lady Dolly
hurriedly ; she was half relieved, half frightened.
'She is rude ! ' she added regretfully.
^ It is the way she has been brought up. You
must forgive her, she is so young,'

Forgive her ! sais de hon coeur ! Anything
feminine that runs away is only too
delightful in these times,' said the Prince coolly.
Do not change her. Do not tease her. Do
not try to make her like yourself. I prefer
her as she is.'

Lady Dolly looked at him quickly. Was it
possible that already ?

Sergius Zouro£P was lying back in his chair
with his eyes closed. He was laughing a little
silently, in an unpleasant way that he had ; he
had spoken insolently, and Lady Dolly could
not resent his insolence.

'You are very kind. Prince,' she said as
negligently as she could behind her fan. ' Very
kind, to treat a child's boutades as a girl's
charm. She has really seen nothing, you
know, shut up in that old northern house by
the sea ; and she is as eccentric as if she were
eighty years old. Quite odd in her notions,
quite ! '

Shall we play ? ' said Zouroif.

They began to play, most of them, at a
little roulette table. Musicians were interpreting,
divinely, themes of Beethoven's and
Schumann's ; the great glass halls and marble
courts of the flowers were open with all their
array of bloom; the green gardens and gay
terraces were without in the brilliancy of
moonlight ; the sea was not a score of yards
away, sparkling with phosphorus and star-rays ;
but they were indifferent to all these things.

They began to play, and heeded nothing else.
The music sounded on deaf ears; the flowers
breathed out odours on closed nostrils ; the
summer night spread its loveliness in vain ;
and the waters of salt wave and fresh fountain
murmured on unheeded. Play held them.

Sergius Zouroff lost plenty of money to
Lady Dolly, who went to bed at two o'clock,
worried and yet pleased, anxious and yet
exultant.

Vere's room was placed next to hers.

She looked in before passing on to her own.
The girl lay sound asleep in the sweet dreamless
sleep of her lingering childhood, her hair
scattered like gold on the pillows, her limbs in
the lovely grace of a serene and unconscious
repose.

Lady Dolly looked at her as she slept, and
an uneasy pang shot through her.

If he do mean that,' she thought, ' I
suppose it would be horrible. And how much
too pretty and too innocent she would be for
him — the beast ! '

Then she turned away, and went to her own

chamber, and began the toilsome martyrdom of
having her perruque unfastened, and her night's
preparations for the morning's enamel begun.

To women like Lady Dolly life is a comedy,
no doubt, played on great stages and to
brilliant audiences, and very amusing and
charming, and all that ; but alas ! it has two
dread passages in each short twenty four hours ;
they are, the bore of being '^ done up,' and the
bore of being ' undone ! '

It is a martyrdom, but they bear it heroically,
knowing that without it they would be
nowhere ; would be yellow, pallid, wrinkled,
even perhaps would be flirtationless, unenvied,
unrewarded, worse than dead !

If Lady Dolly had said any prayers she
would have said, ' Thank God for Piver ! '

It was a very pretty life at Felicite.

The riding parties meeting under the old
avenue of Spanish chestnuts and dispersing down
the flowering lanes ; the shooting parties, which
were not serious and engrossing as in England,
but animated and picturesque in the deep old
Norman woods; the stately dinner at nine
o'clock every night, like a royal banquet ; the
music which was so worthy of more attentive
hearers than it ever got ; . the theatre, pretty
and pimjmnt as a coquette of the last century ;
the laughter ; the brilliancy ; the personal
beauty of the women assembled there ; all
made the life at Felicite charming to the eye

and the ear. Yet amidst it all Vere felt very
lonely, and the only friends she made were in
the Irish horse that they gave her to ride, and
in the big Russian hound that belonged to
Prince Zouroff.

The men thought her lovely, but they could
not get on with her ; the women disliked her
as much as they adored, or professed to adore,
Fuschia Leach.

To Vere, who at Bulmer had been accustomed
to see life held a serious, and even
solemn thing — who had been accustomed to the
gravity of age and the melancholy of a seafaring
poor, and the northern tillers of a
thankless soil — nothing seemed so wonderful as
the perpetual gaiety and levity around her.
Was there any sorrow in the world ? Was life
only one long laugh ? Was it right to forget
the woes of others as utterly as they were
forgotten here? She was always wondering,
and there was no one to ask.

'You are horribly in earnest, Vere,' said
her mother pettishly. ' You should go and live
with Mr. Gladstone.'

But to Vere its seemed more horrible to be
always laughing — and laughing at nothing.
When there are all the poor,' she thought, 'and
all the animals that suffer so.' She did not
understand that, when these pretty women had
sold china and flowers at a fancy fair for a
hospital, or subscribed to the Society for Prevention
of Cruelty, they had really done all that
they thought was required of them, and could
dismiss all human and animal pain from their
mind, and bring their riding-horses home
saddle galled and spur torn without any compunction.


To the complete innocence and honesty of
the girl's nature the discovery of what store the
world set on all things which she had been
taught to hold sacred, left a sickening sense of
solitude and depression behind it. Those who
are little children now will have little left to
learn when they reach womanhood. The little
children that are about us at afternoon tea and
at lawn tennis, that are petted by house-parties
and romped with at pigeon-shooting, will have
little left to discover. They are miniature

women already ; they know the meaning of
many a dubious phrase ; they know the relative
value of social positions ; they know much
of the science of flirtation which society has
substituted for passion ; they understand very
thoroughly the shades of intimacy, the suggestions
of a smile, the degrees of hot and cold, that
may be marked by a bow or emphasised with
a good-day. All the subtle science of society
is learned by them instinctively and unconsciously,
as they learn French and German from
their maids. When they are women they will
at least never have Eve's excuse for sin ; they
will know everything that any tempter could
tell them. Perhaps their knowledge may
prove their safeguard, perhaps not ; perhaps
without its bloom the fruit to men's taste may
seem prematurely withered. Another ten
years will tell. At any rate those we pet today
will be spared the pang of disillusion when
they shall be fairly out in a world that they
already know with cynical thoroughness — baby
La Buyers and girl-Rochefoucaulds in frills
and sashes.

To Yere Herbert, on the contrary, reared as
lie had been upon grave studies and in country
loneliness, the shocks her faiths and her fancies
received was very cruel. Sometimes she thought
bitterly she would have minded nothing if only
her mother had been a thing she could have
reverenced, a creature she could have gone to
for support and sympathy.

But her mother was the most frivolous of
the whole sea of froth around her — of the whole
frivolous womanhood about her the very
emptiest bubble.

Yere, who herself had been cast by nature
in the mould to be a noble mother of children,
had antique sacred fancies that went with the
name of mother. The mother of the Gracchus,
the mother of Bonaparte, the mother of Garibaldi,
the many noble maternal figures of
history and romance, were for ever in her
thoughts ; the time-honoured word embodied
to her all sacrifice, all nobility, all holiness.
And her mother was this pretty foolish painted
toy, with false curls in a sunny circlet, above
her kohl-washed eyes, with her heart set on

a cotillon, and her name in the mouths of
the clubs ; whose god was her tailor, and whose
gospel was Zola; whose life was an opera-bouse,
and who, when she costumed for her
part in it, took ' le moindre excuse pour parasite
nue I ' The thought of her mother, thus, hurt
her, as in revolutions it hurts those who believe
in Mary to see a Madonna spat upon by a mob.
Lady Stoat saw this, and tried, in her
fashion, to console her for it.

My dear, your mother is young still. She
must divert herself. It would be very hard on
her not to be allowed. You must not think she
is not fond of you because she still likes to
waltz.'

Vere's eyes were very sombre as she heard.
I do not like to waltz. I never do.'
'No, love? Well, temperaments differ.
But surely you wouldn't be so cruel as to condemn
your mother only to have your inclinations,
would you? Dolly was always full of
fun. I think you have not fun enough in you,
perhaps.'

But my father is dead.'

^ My clear, Queen Anne is dead ! Henri
Quatre est sur le Font-Neuf, What other news
will you tell us ? I am not saying, dear, that
you should think less of your father's memory.
It is too sweet of your to feel so much, and very,
very rare, alas ! for nowadays our children are
so forgetful, and we are so little to them. But
still you know your mama is young, and so
pretty as she is, too, no one can expect her to
shut herself up as a recluse. Perhaps, had you
been always with her, things would have been
different, but she has always been so much
admired and so petted by everyone that it was
only natural — only natural that '

She should not want me,' said Yere, as
Lady Stoat paused for a word that should
adequately express Lady Dolly's excuses whilst
preserving Lady Dolly's dignity before her
daughter.'

Oh, my dear, I never meant that,' she
said hastily, whilst thinking, 'Quel enfant
terrible I '

The brilliant Fuschia was inclined to be
very amiable and cordial to the young daughter

of Lady Dorothy Vanderdecken, but Vere repelled
lier overtures with a chilling courtesy
that made the bright American ' feel foolish.'

But Pick-me-up, as she was usually called
in the great world, was not a person to be
deterred by one slight, or by fifty. To never
risk a rebuff is a golden rule for self-respect ;
but it is not the rule by which new people
achieve success.

Fuschia Leach was delighted with her
social success, but she never deceived herself
about it.

In America her people were ^ new people ' —
that is to say, her father had made his pile
selling cigars and drugs in a wild country, and
her brothers were making a bigger pile killing
pigs on a gigantic scale down west. In New
York she and hers were deemed ' shoddy ' — the
very shortest of shoddy — and were looked
coldly on, and were left unvisited. But boldly
springing over to less sensitive Europe, they
found themselves without effort received at
courts and in embassies, and had become
fashionable people almost as soon as they had

had time to buy high-stepping horses and ask
great tailors to clothe them. It seemed very
funny ; it seemed quite unaccountable, and it
bewildered them a little ; but Fuschia Leach
did not lose her head.

I surmise I'd best eat the curds while
they're sweet,' she said to herself, and she did
eat them. She dressed, she danced, she made
all her young men fetch and carry for her, she
flirted, she caught up the ways and words and
habits and graces of the great world, and
adapted herself to her new sphere with versatile
cleverness, but all the same she ' prospected '
with a keen eye all the land that lay around
her, and never deceived herself.

I look cunning, and I'm spry, and I cheek
him, and say outrageous things, and he likes it,
and so they all go mad on me after him,' she
said to herself; meaning by her pronoun the
great personage who had first made her the
fashion. But she knew very well that whenever
anything prettier, odder, or more ^ outrageous '
than herself should appear she would lose her
prestige in a day, and fall back into the ranks

of the ten thousand American girls who overrun
Europe.

I like you,' she said to Vere unasked one
day, when she found her alone on the lawn.

You are very good,' said Vere, with the
coldness of an empress of sixty years old.

'I like you,' reiterated Miss Leach. 'I
like you because you treat 'em like dirt under
your feet. That's our way ; but these Europeans
go after men as the squirrels jump after
cobs. You are the only one I have seen that
don't.'

You are very amiable to praise me,' said
Vere coldly.

The lovely Euschia continued her reflections
aloud.

'We're just as bad when the Englishmen
go over to us; that's a fact. But with our
own men we ain't; we just make shoeblacks
and scallyrags of them ; they fetch and carry,
and do as they're told. What a sharp woman
your mother is, and as lively as a kate-did.
Now on our side, you know, the old folks never
get at play like that ; they've given over.'

'My mother is young,' said Vere, more
coldly still.

Miss Leach tilted her chair on end.

'That's just what's so queer. They are
young on into any age over here. Your
mother's over thirty, I suppose ? Don't you
call that old ? It's Methuselah with us. But
here your grandmothers look as cunning as can
be, and they're as skittish as spring-lambs ;
it's the climate I surmise ? '

Vere did not reply, and Miss Fuschia Leach,
undaunted, continued her meditations aloud.

'You haven't had many affairs, I think?
You're not really out are you ? '

No— affairs ? '

Heart affairs, you know. Dear me ! why
before I was your age, I was engaged to James
Fluke Tyson, down Boston way.'

Are you to marry him then ? '

Me ? No — thanks ! I never meant to marry
him. He did to go about with, and it made
Victoria Broker right mad. Then mother came
to Europe: he and I vowed constancy and
exchanged rings and hair and all that, and we

VOL. I.

did write to each other each mail, till I got to
Paris ; then I got more slack, and I dismembered
to ask when the mails went out; soon
after we heard he had burst up ; wasn't it a
piece of luck ? '

I do not understand.'

Piece of luck we came to Europe. I
might have taken him over there. He was a
fine young man, only he hadn't the way your
men have; not their cheek either. His
father'd always been thought one of the biggest
note-shavers in N'York City. They say
it was the fall in silver broke him ; anyway,
poor James he's a clerk in a tea-store
now.'

Vere look at her in speechless surprise.
Pick-me-up laughed all the more.

Oh they are always at seesaw like that in
our country. He'll make another pile I daresay
by next year, and they'll all get on their legs
again. Your people, when they are bowled overlie
down ; ours jump up ; I surmise it's the
climate. I like your men best, though ; they
look such swells, even when they're in blanket

coats and battered old hats, such as your
cousin Mull wears.'

Is it true that Frank wished to succeed
Mr. James Fluke Tyson?' Yere asked after a
sore struggle with her disgust.

'Who's Frank?'

My cousin, Mull ? '

Is he Frank ? Dear life ! I always
thought dukes were dukes, even in the bosom
of their families. Yes ; he was that soft on
me — there, they all are, but he's the worst I
ever saw. I said no, but I could whistle him
back. I'm most sorry I did say no. Dukes
don't grow on every apple-bough ; only, he's
poor they say — '

He is poor,' said Vere coldly, her disgust
conquering all amusement.

When I came across the Pond,' said Miss
Leach, continuing her own reflections, ' I said
to mother " I'll take nothing but a duke." I
always had a kind o' fancy for a duke. There's
such a few of them. I saw an old print once in
the Broadway, of a Duchess of Northumberland,
holding her coronet out in both hands. I said



to myself then, that was how I'd be taken
comedy — '

Do you think duchesses hold their coronets
in their hands, then ? '

Well, no ; I see they don't ; but I suppose
one would in a picture ? '

I think it would look very odd, even in a
picture.'

What's the use of having one, then? There
aren't coronations every day. They tell me
your cousin might be rolling if he liked. Is it
true he'd have five hundred pounds sterling a
day if he bored for coal ? One could live on
that.'

He would never permit the forest to be
touched to save his life ! ' said Yere, indignantly
with a frown and a flush. ' The forests
are as old as the days of Hengist and Horsa ;
the wild bulls are in them and the red deer ;
men crept there to die after Otterburn; under
one of the oaks. King James saw Johne Armstrong.'


Fuschia Leach showed all her pretty teeth.
Very touching', but the coal was under them

before that, I guess ! That's much more to the
point. I come from a business-country. If
he'll hear reason about that coal, I'm not sure
I won't think twice about your cousin.'

Yere, without ceremony, turned away. She
felt angry tears swell her throat and rise
into her eyes.

Oh ! you turn up your nose ! ' said Fuschia
Leach vivaciously. ' You think it atrocious
that new folks should carry off your brothers,
and cousins, and friends. Well, I'd like to
know where's it worse than all your big
nobility going down at our feet for our dollars?
I don't say your English do it so much, but
they do do it, your younger sons, and all that
small fry ; and abroad we can buy the biggest
and best titles in all Europe for a few hundred
thousand dollars a year. Thais real mean !
That's blacking boots, if you please. Men
with a whole row of crusaders at their backs,
men as count their forefathers right away into
Julius Caesar's times, men that had uncles in
the Ark with Noah, they're at a Yankee pile
likes flies around molasses. Aral, now,' said

the pretty American, with her eyes lighting
fiercely and with sparks of scorn flashing out
from them, ' Wal, now, you're all of you that
proud that you beat Lucifer, but as far as I
see there aren't much to be proud of. We're
shoddy over there. If we went to Boston we
wouldn't get a drink, outside an hotel, for our
lives. N'York, neither, don't think because a
man's struck ile he'll go to heaven with Paris
thrown in ; but look at all your big folk \ Pray
what do they do the minute shoddy comes their
way over the pickle field ? Why they just eat
it ! Kiss it and eat it ! Do you guess we're such
fools we don't see that? Why your Norman
blood and Domesday Book and all the rest of
it — pray hasn't it married Lily Peart, whose
father kept the steamboat hotel in Jersey City,
and made his pile selling soothers to the
heathen Chinee ? Who was your Marchioness
of Snowdon if she weren't the daughter of old
Sam Salmon the note-shaver ? Who was your
Duchesse de Dagobert, if she weren't Aurelian
Twine, with seventy million dollars made in two
years out of oil? Who was your Princess

Buondelmare, if not Lofty Miller, who Alas
born in Nevada, and baptized with gin in a
miner's pannikin ? We know 'em all ! And
Blue Blood's taken 'em because they had cash.
That's about it ! Wal, to my fancy, there
aren't much to be proud of anyhow, and it
aren't only us that need be laughed at.'

It is not,' said Yere, who had listened in
bewilderment. ' There is very much to be
ashamed of on both sides.'

Shame's a big thing — a four-horse concern,'
said the other with some demur. ' But
if any child need be ashamed it is not this
child. There's a woman in Some, Anastasia
W. Crash ; her father's a coloured person.
After the war he turned note-shaver and made
a pile; Anastasia aren't coloured to signify;
she looks like a Creole, and she's handsome.
It got wind in Some that she was going there,
and had six million dollars a year safe ; and
she has that ; it's no lie. Well, in a week she
could pick and choose amongst the Roman
princes as if they were bilberries in a hedge, and
she's taken one that's got a name a thousand

years old ; a name that every school-girl reads
out in her history-books when she reads about
the popes ! There ! And Anastasia W. Crash is
a coloured person with us ; with us we would
not go in the same car with her, nor eat at the
same table with her. What do you think of
that?'

I think your country is very liberal ; and
that your " coloured person " has revenged all
the crimes of the Borgia.'

The pretty American looked at her suspiciously.


I guess I don't understand you,' she said
a little sulkily. 'I guess you're very deep,
aren't you ? '

Pardon me,' said Yere, weary of the conversation
; ' if you will excuse me I will leave
you now, we are going to ride '

Ride ? Ah ! That's a thing I don't cotton
to anyhow,' said Miss Fuschia Leach, who had
found that her talent did not lie that way, and
could never bring herself to comprehend how
princesses and duchesses could find any pleasure
in tearing over bleak fields and jumping

scratching hedges. A calorifere at eighty degrees
always, a sacque from Sirandin's, an easy
chair, and a dozen young men in various stages
of admiration around her, that was her idea of
comfort. Every thing out of doors made her
chilly.

She watched Vere pass away, and laughed,
and yet felt sorry. She herself was the rage
because she was a great beauty and a great flirt ;
because she had been signalled for honour by a
prince whose word was law ; because she was
made for the age she lived in, with a vulgarity
that was chic, and an audacity that was unrivalled,
and a delightful mingling of utter
ignorance and intense shrewdness, of slavish
submission to fashion and daring eccentricity in
expression, that made her to the jaded palate of
the world a social caviare, a moral absinthe.
Exquisitely pretty, perfectly dressed, as dainty
to look at as porcelain, and as common to talk to
as a camp follower, she, like many of her nation,
had found herself, to her own surprise, an object
of adoration to that great world of which she
had known nothing, except from the imaginative

columns of ' own correspondents.' But
Fuschia Leach was no fool, as lie said often
herself, and she felt, as her eyes followed Yere,
that this calm cold child with her great contemptuous
eyes and her tranquil voice, had
something she had not ; something that not all
the art of Mr. Worth could send with his confections
to herself.

My word ! I think I'll take Mull just to
rile her ! ' she thought to herself; and thought,
too, for she was good-natured and less vain
than she looked : ' Perhaps she'd like me a
little bit then — and then, again, perhaps she
wouldn't.'

That girl's worth five hundred of me,
and yet they don't see it ! ' she mused now,
as she pursued Yere's shadow with her
eyes across the lawn. She knew very well
that with some combination of scarlet and
orange, or sage and maize upon her, in some
miracle of velvet and silk, with a cigarette in
her mouth, a thousand little curls on her forehead,
the last slang on her lips, and the last
news on her ear, her own generation would

find lier adorable while it would leave Yere
Herbert in the shade. And yet she would
sooner have been Yere Herbert ; yet she would
sooner have had that subtle, nameless, unattainable
' something ' which no combination of
scarlet and orange, of sage and of maize, was
able to give, no imitation or effort for half a
lifetime would teach.

'We don't raise that sort somehow our
way,' she reflected wistfully.

She let the riding party go out with a
sigh of envy — the slender figure of Yere foremost
on a mare that few cared to mount — and
went herself to drive in a little basket-carriage
with the Princess Nelaguine, accompanied by
an escort of her own more intimate adorers, to
call at two or three of the maisonettes scattered
along the line of the shore between Felicite
and Millers.

Strikes me I'll have to take that duke
after all,' she thought to herself ; he would come
to her sign she knew, as a hawk to the lure.

That day Prince Zouroff rode by Yere's
side, and paid her many compliments on her

riding and other things ; but she scarcely
heard them. She knew she could ride anything,
as she told him; and she thought
everyone could who loved horses; and then
she barely heard the rest of his pretty speeches.
She was thinking, with a bewildered disgust,
of the woman whom Francis Herbert, Duke of
Mull and Cantire, was willing to make her
cousin.

She had not comprehended one tithe of
Pick-me-up's jargon, but she had understood
the menace to the grand, old, sombre border
forests about Castle Herbert, which she loved
with a love only second to that she felt for the
moors and woods of Buhner.

I would sooner see Francis dead than see
him touch those trees ! ' she thought, with what
her mother called her terrible earnestness.
And she was so absorbed in thinking of the
shame of such a wife for a Herbert of Mull,
that she never noticed the glances Zouroff gave
her, or dreamed that the ladies who rode with
her were saying to each other, ' Is it possible "?
Can he be serious ? '

Vere had been accustomed to rise at six
and go to bed at ten, to spend her time in
serious studies or open-air exercise. She was
bewildered by a day which began at one or
two o'clock in the afternoon, and ended at
cockcrow or later. She was harassed by the
sense of being perpetually exhibited and unceasingly
criticised. Speaking little herself, she
listened, and observed, and began to understand
all that Correze had vaguely warned her
against; to see the rancour underlying the
honeyed words; the enmity concealed by the
cordial smile; the hate expressed in praise;
the effort masked in ease ; the endless strife and
calumny, and cruelty, and small conspiracies
which make up the daily life of men and
women in society. Most of it was still a
mystery to her ; but much she saw, and grew
heartsick at it. Light and vain temperaments
find their congenial atmosphere in the world
of fashion, but hers was neither light nor vain,
and the falseness of it all oppressed her.

You are a little Puritan, my dear ! ' said
Lady Stoat, smiling at her.

Pray be anything else rather than that ! '
said Lady Dolly pettishly. ' Everybody hates
it. It makes you look priggish and conceited,
and nobody believes in it even. That ever a
child of mine should have such ideas ! '

Yes. It is very funny ! ' said her dear
Adine quietly. ' You neglected her education,
pussy. She is certainly a little Puritan. But
YiQ should not laugh at her. In these days it
is really very interesting to see a girl who can
blush, and who does not understand the French
of the Petits Journaux, though she knows the
French of Marmontel and of Pavillon.'

^ Who cares for Marmontel and Pavillon ? '
said Lady Dolly in disgust.

She was flattered by the success of Vere
as a beauty, and irritated by her failure as a
companionable creature. She was triumphant
to see the impression made by the
girl's blending of sculptural calm and childlike
loveliness. She was infuriated a hundred
times a day by Vere's obduracy, coldness, and
unwise directness of speech.

'It is almost imbecility,' thought Lady

DoUj, obliged to apologise continually for some
misplaced sincerity or obtuse negligence with
which her daughter had offended people.

'You should never grosser other people;
never, never ! ' said Lady Dolly. ' If Nero, and
what-was-her-name that began with an M,
were to come in your world, you should be civil
to them ; yon should be charming to them, so
long as they were people that were received.
Nobody is to judge for themselves, never. If
society is with you, then you are all right.
Besides, it looks so much prettier to be nice
and charitable and all that ; and besides, what
do sou know, you chit P

Yere was always silent under these instructions
; they were but little understood by her.
VYhen she did grosser people it was generally
because their consciences gave a sting to her
simple frank words of which the young speaker
herself was quite unconscious.

Am I a Puritan ? ' Yere thought, with
anxious self-examination. In history she detested
the Puritans ; all her sympathies were
with the other side. Yet she began now to

think that, if the Stuart court ever resembled
Felicite, the Puritans had not perhaps been so
very far wrong.

Felicite was nothing more or worse than a
very fashionable house of the period ; but it
was the world in little, and it hurt her, bewildered
her, and in many ways disgusted her.

If she had been stupid, as her mother
thought her, she would have been amused or
indifferent; but she was not stupid, and she
was oppressed and saddened. At Bulmer she
had been reared to think truth the first law of
life, modesty as natural to a gentlewoman as
cleanliness, delicacy and reserve the attributes
of all good breeding, and sincerity indispensable
to self-respect. At Felicite, who seemed to care
for any one of these things ?

Lady Stoat gave them lip-service indeed,
but, with that exception, no one took the trouble
even to render them that questionable homage
which hypocrisy pays to virtue.

In a world that was the really great world,
so far as fashion went and rank (for the house-party
at Felicite was composed of people of the

purest blood and highest station, people very
exclusive, very prominent and-very illustrious),
Vere found things that seemed passing strange
to her. When she heard of professional beauties,
whose portraits were sold for a shilling,
and whose names were as cheap as red herrings,
yet who were received at court and envied by
princesses ; when she saw that men were the
wooed, not the wooers, and that the art of
flirtation was reduced to a tournament of effrontery
; when she saw a great duchess go outwith
the guns, carrying her own choke bore by
Pursy and showing her slender limbs in gaiters ;
when she saw married women not much older
than herself spending hour after hour in the
fever of chemin de fer ; when she learned that
they were very greedy for their winnings to be
paid, but never dreamt of being asked to pay
their losses ; when she saw these women with
babies in their nurseries, making unblushing
love to other women's husbands, and saw everyone
looking on the pastime as a matter of course
quite good naturedly; when she saw one of these
ladies take a flea from her person and cry, Qui

VOL. I, p

maine Vale, and a prince of semi-royal blood
swallow the flea in a glass of water, when to
these things, and a hundred others like them,
theyonng student from the Northumbrian moors
was the silent and amazed listener and spectator,
she felt indeed lost in a strange and terrible
world ; and something that was very like disgust
shone from her clear eyes and closed her
proud mouth.

Society as it was filled her with a very
weariness of disgust, a cold and dreary disenchantment,
like the track of grey mire that
in the mountains is left by the descent of
the glacier. But her mother was more terrible
to her than all. At the thought of her mother
Vere, even in solitude, felt her cheek burn
with an intolerable shame. When she came
to know something of the meaning of those
friendships that society condoned — ^of those
jests which society whispers between a cup of
tea and a cigarette — of those hints which are
enjoyed like a bonbon, yet contain all the
enormities that appalled Juvenal, — then the
heart of Vere grew sick, and she began slowly

to realise what manner of woman this was
that had given her birth.

My dear, your pretty daughter seems to sit
in judgment on us all ! I am sadly afraid she
finds us wanting,' said the great lady who had
signalised herself with utilising a flea.

^ Oh, she has a dreadful look, I know,' said
Lady Dolly distractedly. ' But you see she has
been always with that odious old woman. She
has seen nothing. She is a baby.'

The other smiled :

'When she has been married a year, all
that will change. She will leave it behind her
with her maiden sashes and shoes. But I am
not sure that she will marry quickly, lovely as
she is. She frightens people, and, if you don't
mind my saying so, she is rude. The other
night when we had that little bit of fan about
the flea she rose and walked away, turned
her back positively, as if she were a scandalised
dowager. Now, you know, that
doesn't do nowadays. The age of saints is
gone by '

If there ever were one,' said Lady Dolly,
p2

who occasionally forgot that she was very high
church in her doctrines.

Vera would make a beautiful St. Ursula,'
said Lady Stoat, joining them. ' There is war
as well as patience in her countenance; she
will resist actively as well as endure passively.'

What a dreadful thing to say ! ' sighed
Lady Dolly.

The heroine of the flea erotic laughed at her.

'Marry her, my dear. That is what she
wants.'

She herself was only one and twenty, and
had been married four years, had some little
flaxen bundles in nurses' arms that she seldom
saw, was deeply in debt, had as many adorers
as she had pearls and diamonds, and was a
very popular and admired personage.

Why can't you get on with people ? ' Lady
Dolly said to Yere irritably, that day.

'I do not think they like me,' said Vere
very humbly; and her mother answered very
sharply and sensibly :

Everybody is liked as much as they wish
to be. If you show people you like them, they

like you. It is perfectly simple. You get
what you give my dear in this world. But the
sad truth is, Vere, that you are unamiable.'

Was she in truth unamiable ?

She felt the tears gather in her eyes. She
put her hand on the hound Loris's collar, and
went away with him into the gardens ; the exquisite
gardens with the gleam of the sea
between the festoons of their roses that no one
hardly ever noticed except herself. In a deserted
spot where a marble Anxious reigned
over a world of bigonias, she sat down on a
rustic chair and put her arm round the dog's
neck, and cried like the child that she was.

She thought of the sweetbread bush on the
edge of the white cliff — oh ! if only Correze
had been here to tell her what to do !

The dog kissed her in his own way, and was
sorrowful for her sorrow ; the sea wind stirred
the flowers; the waves were near enough at
hand for their murmuring to reach her; the
quietness and sweetness of the place soothed her.

She would surely see Correze again, she
thought; perhaps in Paris, this very winter.

if her mother took her there. He would tell
lier if she were right or wrong in having no
sympathy with all these people ; and the tears
still fell down her cheeks as she sat there
and fancied she heard that wondrous voice rise
once more above the sound of the sea.

Mademoiselle Vera, are you unhappy ? and
in Felicite ! ' said a voice that was very unlike
that unforgotten music — the voice of Sergius
ZourofP.

Vere looked up startled, with her tears still
wet, like dew.

Zouroif had been kindness itself to her, but
her first disgust for him had never changed.
She was alarmed and vexed to be found by
him, so, alone.

What frets you ? ' he said, with more
gentleness than often came into his tones.
It is a regret to me as your host that you
should know any regret in Felicite. If there
be anything I can do, command me.'

'Your are very good, monsieur,' said Vere
hesitatingly. 'It is nothing — very little, at
least ; my mother is vexed with me.'

Indeed ! Your charming mother, then,
for once, must be in the wrong. What is it ? '

Because people do not like me.'

Who is barbarian enough not to like you?
I am a barbarian but — '

His cold eyes grew eloquent, but she did
not see their gaze, for she was looking dreamily
at the far-off sea.

Into one likes me,' said Yere wearily, ' and
my mother thinks it is my fault. !Neo doubt
it is. I do not care for what they care
for ; but then they do not care for what
I love — the gardens, the woods, the sea, the
dogs.'

She drew Loris close as she spoke, and rose
to go. She did not wish to be with her host.
But Zouroff paced by her side.

Loris pleases you ? Will you give him the
happiness of being called yours ? '

Yere for once raised a bright and grateful
face to him, a flush of pleasure drying her
tears.

Mine ? Loris ? Oh that would be delightful
! — if mamma will let me.'

'Your mother will let you,' said ZourofF,
with an odd smile. ' Loris is a fortunate beast,
to have power to win your fancy.

But I like all dogs—'

And no men ? '

I do not think about them.'

It was the simple truth.

I wish I were a dog ! ' said Serge ZourofF.

Vere laughed for a moment — a child's sudden
laugh at a droll idea; then her brows
contracted a little.

Dogs do not flatter me,' she said curtly.

Nor do I — foi honneur ! But tell me, is
it really the fact that cruel Lady Dolly made
you weep ? In my house too ! — I am very
angry. I wish to make it Felicite to you,
beyond any other of my guests.'

'Mamma was no doubt right, monsieur,'
said Yere coldly. ' She said that I do not like
people, and I do not.'

'Dame ! you have very excellent taste then
said Zouroff with a laugh. ' I will not quarrel
with your coldness. Mademoiselle Yera, if you
will only make an exception for me ? '

Vere was silent.

Zouroff's eyes grew impatient and fiery.

Will you not even like me a little for
Loris's sake ? '

Vere stood still in the rose-path, and looked
at him with serions serene eyes.

It was kind of you to give me Loris, that
I know, and I am grateful for that ; but I will
not tell you what is false, monsieur ; it would
be a very bad return.'

'Is she the wiliest coquette by instinct, or
only the strangest child that ever breathed? '
thought Zouroff as he said aloud. ' Why do
you not like me, mon enfant ? '

Vere hesitated a moment.

I do not think you are a good man.'

And why am I so unfortunate as to give
you that opinion of me ? '

It is the way you talk ; and you kicked
Loris one day last week.'

Serge Zouroff laughed aloud, but he swore
a heavy oath under his breath.

Your name in Eussian means Faith. You
are well named. Mademoiselle Vera,' he said

carelessly, as he continued to walk by lier side.
'But I shall hope to make you think better
things of me yet, and I can never kick Loris
again, as he is now yours, without your permission.'


'You will never have that,* said Vere, with
a little smile, as she thought, with a pang of
compunction, that she had been very rude to a
host who was courteous and generous.

Zouroff moved on beside her, gloomy and
silent.

'Take my arm, mademoiselle,' he said
suddenly, as they were approaching the chateau.
Vere put her hand on his arm in timid compliance
; she felt that she must have seemed rude
and thankless. They crossed the smooth lawns
that stretched underneath the terraces of
Felicite.

It was near sunset, about seven o'clock;
some ladies were out on the terrace, amidst
them Lady Dolly and the heroine of the flea.
They saw Zouroff cross the turf, with the girl
in her white Gainsborough dress beside him,
and the hound beside her.

Lady Dolly's heart gave a sudden leap, then
stopped its beats m suspense.

Positively — I do — think ' murmured

the lady of the flea ; and then fell back in her
chair in a fit of uncontrollable laughter.

Vere loosened her hand from her host's
arm as they ascended the terrace steps, and
came straight to her mother.

Monsieur ZouroflP has given me Loris ! ' she
cried breathlessly, for the dog was to her an
exceeding joy. ' You will let me have Loris,
mamma ? '

'Let her have Loris,' said Zouroff, with a
smile that Lady Dolly understood.

Certainly, since you are so kind. Prince,'
she said charmingly. ' But a dog ! It is such a
disagreeable thing ; when one travels especially.
Still, since you are so good to that naughty
child, who gives all her heart to the brutes '

I am happy that she thinks me a brute
too,' said ZourofiP, with a grim smile.

The ladies laughed.

Vere did not hear or heed. She was caressing
her new treasure.

I shall not feel alone now with Loris,' she
was saying to herself. The dull fierce eyes of
Serge Zouroff were fastened on her, but she
did not think of him, nor of why the women
laughed.

Lady Dolly was vaguely perplexed.

The girl was crying half an hour ago she
thought. 'Perhaps she is deeper than one
thinks. Perhaps she means to draw him on
that way. Anyhow, her way appears to answer
but it hardly seems possible — when one
thinks what he has had thrown at his head and
never looked at ! And Vere ! such a rude
creature, and such a simpleton ! '

Yet a sullen respect began to enter into her
for her daughter : the respect that women of
the world only give to a shrewd talent for
finesse. If she were capable at sixteen of
drawing on ' the master of Felicite thus ably,
Lady Dolly felt that her daughter might yet
prove worthy of her ; might still become a being
with whom she could have sympathy and
community of sentiment. And yet Lady
Dolly felt a sort of sickness steal over her as

she saw the look in his eyes which Yere did
not see.

It will be horrible ! horrible ! ' she said to
herself. ' Why did Adiiie ever tell me to come
here ? '

For Lady Dolly was never in her own eyes
the victim of her own follies, but always that
of someone else's bad counsels.

Lady Dolly was frightened when she thought
that it was possible that this scorner of unmarried
women would be won by her own child.
But she was yet more terrified when the probable
hopelessness of any such project flashed
on her.

The gift of the dog might mean everything,
and might mean nothing.

What a constant misery she is ! ' she
mused. ^ Oh, why wasn't she a boy ? They
go to Eton, and if they get into trouble men
manage it all ; and they are useful to go about
with if you want stalls at a theatre, or an
escort that don't compromise you. But a
daughter ! '

She could have cried, dressed though she was

for dinner, in a combination of orange and
deadleaf, that would have consoled any woman
under any affliction.

Do you think he means it,' she whispered
to Lady Stoat, who answered cautiously,—

I think he might be made to mean it.'

Lady Dolly sighed, and looked nervous.

Two days later Loris had a silver collar on
his neck that had just come from Paris. It
had the inscription on it of the Troubadour's
motto for his mistress's falcon :

Quiconque me trouvera, quel me mene a ma
mattress : pour recompense il la verra.'

Yere looked doubtfully at the collar; she
preferred Loris without it.

He does mean it,' said Lady Dolly to herself,
and her pulses fluttered strangely.

I'd have given you a dog if I'd known you
wished for one,' said John Jura moodily that
evening to Vere. She smiled and thanked
him.

^ I had so many dogs about me at Bulmer
I feel lost without one, and Loris is very
beautiful '

Jura looked at her with close scrutiny.

How do you like the giver of Loris ? '

Vere met his gaze unmoved.

I do not like him at all,' she said in a low
tone. ' But perhaps it is not sincere to say so.
He is very kind, and we are in his house.'

My dear ! That we are in his house or
that he is in ours is the very reason to abuse a
manlike a thief! You don't seem to understand
modern ethics,' said the heroine of the
flea epic, as she passed near with a little laugh,
oil her way to play chemin che fer in the next
drawing-room.

'Don't listen to them,' said Jura hastily.
They will do you no good ; they are all a bad
lot here.'

But they are all gentle-people ? ' said Vere
in some astonishment. ' They are all gentlemen
and gentlewomen born.'

Oh, horn ! ' said Jura, with immeasurable
contempt. ' Oh yes ! they're all in the swim
for that matter ; but they are about as bad a
set as there is in Europe ; not but what it is
much the same everywhere. They say the

Second Empire did it. I don't know if it's
that, but I do know that " gentlewomen," as
you call it, are things one never sees nowadays
anywhere in Paris or London. You have got
the old grace, but how long will you keep it ?
They will corrupt you; and if they can't,
they'll ruin you.'

Is it so easy to be corrupted or to be
ruined ? '

Easy as blacking your glove,' said Jura
moodily.

Vere gave a little sigh. Life seemed to her
very difficult.

I do not think they will change me,' she
said, after a few moments' thought.

I don't think they will ; but they will
make you pay for it. If they say nothing
worse of you than that you are " odd," you will
be lucky. How did you become what you
were ? You, Dolly's daughter ! '

Vere coloured at the unconscious contempt
with which he spoke the two last words.

'I try to be what my father would have
wished,' she said under her breath.

Jura was touched. His blue eyes grew
dim and reverential.

*I wish to heaven your father may watch
over you ! ' he said in a husky voice. ' In our
world, my dear, you will want some good
angel — bitterly. Perhaps you will be your
own, though. I hope so.' •»

His hand sought hers and caught it closely
for an instant, and he grew very pale. Yere
looked up in a little surprise.

You are very kind to think of me,' she
said with a certain emotion.

Who would not think of you ? ' muttered
Jura, with a darkness on his frank, fair, boldface.
' Don't be so astonished that I do,' he
said, with a little laugh, whose irony she did
not understand. 'You know I am such a
friend of your mother's '

Yes,' said Yere gravely*

She was perplexed. He took up her fan
and unfurled it.

'Who gave you this thing? It is an old
one of Dolly's, I bought it in the Passage
Choiseul myself; it's not half good enough for

VOL. I. Q

you now. I bought one at Christie's last winter,
that belonged to Maria Teresa ; it has her
monogram in opals; it was painted by
Fragonard, or one of those beggars ; I will send
for it for you if you will please me by taking it.'

You are very kind said Vere.

That is what 'you say of Serge Zouroff ! '

She laughed a little.

'I like you better than Monsieur ZouroiF.'

Jura's face flushed to the roots of his fair
crisp curls.

And as well as your favoured singer ? '

Ah no ! ' — vere spoke quickly, and with a
frown on her pretty brows. She was annoyed
at the mention of Correze.

Lady Dolly approached at that moment —
an apparition of white lace and nenuphars, with
some wonderful old cameos as ornaments.

Take me to the tea-room. Jack,' she said
sharply. ' Clementine de Ville is winning
everything again ; it is sickening ; I believe
she marks the aces ! '

Jura gave her his arm.

Vere, left alone sat lost in thought. It

was a strange world. No one seemed happy in
it, or sincere. Lord Jura, whom her mother
treated like a brother, seemed to despise her
more than anyone ; and her mother seemed to
say that another friend, who was a French
Duchess, descended from a Valois, was guilty
of cheating at cards !

Jura took the white lace and nenuphars into
the tea-room. He was silent and preoccupied.
Lady Dolly wanted pretty attentions, but their
day was over with him.

'Is it true,' he said abruptly to her, 'that
Zouroff wants your daughter ? '

Lady Dolly smiled vaguely.

Oh ! I don't know ; they say many things,
you know. No ; I shouldn't suppose he means
anything, should you ? '

'I can't say,' he answered curtly. 'You
wish it.'

Of course I wish anything for her happiness.'


He laughed aloud.

What damned hypocrites all you women
are ! '



My dear Jura, spray ! you are not in a
guard-room or a club-room ! ' said Lady Dolly
very seriously shocked indeed.

Lord Jura got her off his hands at length,
and bestowed her on a young dandy, who had
become famous by winning the Grand Prix in
that summer. Then he walked away by himself
into the smoking-room, which at that hour
was quite deserted. He threw himself down
on one of the couches, and thought — moodily,
impatiently, bitterly.

What cursed fools we are ! ' he mused.
What a fool he had been ever to fancy that he
loved the bloom of Fiver's powders, the slim
shape of a white satin corset, the falsehoods of a
dozen seasons, the debts of a little gamester, the
smiles of a calculating coquette, and the five
hundred things of like value, that made up the
human entity, known as Lady Dolly

He could see her, as he had seen her first ; a
little gossamer figure under the old elms, down
by the waterside at Hurlingham, when Hurlingham
had been in its earliest natal days of glory.
There had been a dinner-party for a Sunday

evening ; he remembered carrying her tea, and
picking her out the big strawberries under the
cedar. They had met a thousand times before
that, but had never spoken. He thought her
the prettiest creature he had ever seen. She
had told him to call on her at Chesham jDlace ;
she was always at home at four. He remembered
their coming upon a dead pigeon amongst
the gardenias, and how she had laughed, and
told him to write its elegy, and he had said
that he would if he could only spell, but he had
never been able to spell in his life. All the
nonsense, all the trifles, came back to his
memory in a hateful clearness. That was five
years ago, and she was as pretty as ever : Piver
is the true fontaine de jouvence. She was not
changed, but he — he wished that he had been
dead like the blue-rock amongst the gardenias.
He thought of a serious sweet face, a noble
mouth, a low broad brow, with the fair hair
lying thickly above it.

Good God ! ' he thought, ' who would ever
have dreamt that she could have had such a
daughter ! '

And his heart was sick, and his meditation
was bitter. He was of a loyal, faithful, dog-like
temper; yet in that moment he turned in revolt
against the captivity that had once seemed
sweet, and he hated the mother of Vere.

A little later Lord Jura told his host that
he was very sorry, regretted infinitely, and all
that, but he was obliged to go up to Scotland.
His father had a great house-party there, and
would have no denial.

Alone, Lady Dolly said to him, ' What does
this mean ? what is this for ? You know you
never go to Camelot ; you know that you go to
every other house in the kingdom sooner.
What did you say it for ? And how dare you
say it without seeing if it suit me ? It doesn't
suit me.'

I put it on Camelot because it sounds more
decent; and I mean to go,' said Lord Jura,
plunging his hands in his pockets. 'The truth
is, Dolly, I don't care to be in this blackguard's
house. He is a blackguard, and you're wanting
to get him.'

Lady Dolly turned pale and sick.

What language ! How is he any more a —
what you say — than you are, or anybody else ?
And pray for what do I want him ? '

The broad frank brows of Lord Jura grew
stormy as he frowned.

The man is a blackguard. There are things
one can't say to women. Everybody knows it.
You don't care ; you want to get him for the
child.'

Vera ? Good gracious ! What is Yera to
you if it be what you fancy ? '

Nothing ! ' said Lord Jura, and his lips
were pressed close together, and he did not look
at his companion.

Then why — I should think she isn't, indeed
! — but why, in the name of goodness '

Look here, Dolly,' said the young man
sternly. ' Look here. I'm death on sport, and
I've killed most things, from stripes in the
jungle to the red rover in the furrows ; I don't
affect to be a feeling fellow, or to go in for that
sort of sentiment, but there was one thing I
never could stand seeing, and that was a little
innocent wild rabbit caught in a gin-scrap. My

keepers aren't set one for their lives. I can't
catch you by the throat, or throttle Zouroff as
I should a keeper if I caught him at it, so I goto
Camelot. That's all. Don't make a fuss.
You're going to do a wicked thing, if you can
do it, and I won't look on ; that's all.'

Lady Dolly was very frightened.

'What do you know about Zouroff?' she
murmured hurriedly.

Only what all Paris knows ; that is quite
enough.'

Lady Dolly was relieved, and instantly allowed
herself to grow angry.

All Paris ! Such stuff ! As if men were
not all alike. Really one would fancy you were
in love with Vera yourself ! '

Stop that ! ' said Lord Jura sternly ; and
she was subdued, and said no more. ' I shall
go tomorrow,' he added carelessly; 'and you
nay as well give me a book or a note or something
for the women at Camelot ; it will stay
heir tongues here.'

I have a tapestry pattern to send to your
sisters,' said Lady Dolly, submissive but infuriated.

' What do sou know about Sergius Zou-off,
Jack ? I wish you would tell me.'

^ I think Job know it all very well,' said
Lord Jura. ' I think you women know all
about all the vices under the sun, only you
don't mind. There are always bookcases locked
in every library; I don't know why we lock 'em ;
women know everything. But if the man's
rich it don't matter. If the fellows we used to
read about in Suetonius were alive now, you'd
marry your girls to them and never ask any
questions — except about settlements. It's no
use my saying anything ; you don't care. But
I tell you aU the same that if you give your
daughter when she's scarce sixteen to that brute,
you might just as well strip her naked and set
her up to auction like the girl in La Coupe ou
La Femme ! '

*You grow very coarse,' said Lady Dolly,
coldly.

Lord Jura left the room, and, in the morning,
left the house.

As the *Ephemeris' went slowly, in a
languid wind, across the channel in the grey

twilight, he sat on deck and smoked, and grew
heavy-hearted. He was not a book-learned
man, and seldom read anything beyond the
sporting papers, or a French romance ; but
some old verse, about the Fates making out of
our pleasant vices whips to scourge ns crossed
his mind, as the woods and towers of Felicite
receded from his sight.

He was young ; he was his own master ; he
was Earl of Jura, and would be Marquis of
Shetland. He could have looked into those
grand grey eyes of Vere Herbert's with a franlv
and honest love ; he could have been happy,
only — only — only !

The Maria Theresa fan came from Camelot,
but Jura never returned.

That night there was a performance in the
little theatre ; there was usually one every
other night. The actors enjoyed themselves
much more than the guests at Felicite. They
all lived in a little mignonette in the park, idled
through their days as they liked, and played
when they were told. When his house party
bored him beyond endurance, Sergius Zouroff

wandered away to that mignonette in this park
at midnight.

That evening the piece on the programme
was one that was very light. Zouroff stooped
his head to Lady Dolly as they were about to
move to the theatre.

Send your daughter to her bed ; that
piece is not fit for her ears.'

Lady Dolly stared and bit her lip). But she
obeyed. She went back and touched Yere's
cheek with her fan and caressed her.

My sweet one, you look pale. Go to your
room ; you do not care much for acting, and
your health is so precious '

'He must mean it,' she thought, as they
went into the pretty theatre, and the lights
went round with her. The jests fell on deaf
ears so far as she was concerned ; the dazzling
little scenes danced before her sight ; she could
only see the heavy form of Zouroff cast down
in his velvet chair, with his eyes half shut,
and his thick eyebrows drawn together in a
frown that did not relax.

He must mean it,' she thought. ' But

how odd ! Good heavens ! that he should care
that he should think — of what is fit or
unfit ! '

And it made her laugh convulsively, in a
sort of spasm of mirth, for which the gestures
and jokes of the scene gave excuse.

Yet she had never felt so nearly wretched,
never so nearly understood, what shame and
repentance meant.

In the entrance Zouroff changed his place,
and took a vacant chair by Lady Dolly, and
took up her fan and played with it.

Miladi, we have always been friends, good
friends, have we not ? ' he said with the smile
that she hated. ' You know me well, and can
judge me without flattery. What will you say
if I tell you that I seek the honour of your
daughter's hand ? '

He folded and unfolded the fan as he spoke.
The orchestra played at that moment loudly.
Lady Dolly was silent. There was a contraction
at the corners of her pretty rosebud-like
mouth.

Any mother could have but one answer to

you,' she replied with an effort. 'You are
too good, and I am too happy ! '

I may speak to her, then, tomorrow, with
your consent ? ' he added.

Let me speak to her first,' she said hurriedly
; ' she is so young.'

'As you will, madame ! Place myself and
all I have at her feet.'

What can you have seen in her ! Good
heavens ! ' she cried in an impulse of amaze.

She has avoided me ! ' said Serge Zouroff,
and spoke the truth : then added in his best
manner, ' And is she not your child ? '

The violins chirped softly as waking
birds at dawn ; the satin curtain drew up ;
the little glittering scene shone again in the
wax-light. Lady Dolly gasped a little for
breath.

'It is very warm here, she murmured.
Don't you think if a window were opened
And then you have astonished me so '

She shook double her usual drops of chloral
out into her glass that night, but they did not
give her sleep.

I shall never persuade her ! ' she thought ;
gazing with dry, hot eyes at the light swinging
before her mirror. The eyes of Vere seemed
to look at her in their innocent, scornful
serenity, and the eyes of Vere's father too.

Do the dead ever come back ? ' she
thought ; ' some people say they do.'

And Lady Dolly, between her soft sheets,
shivered, and felt frightened and old.

She was on the edge of a crime, and she
had a conscience, though it was a very small
and feeble one, and seldom spoke.

Vere had been up with the sunrise, and outwith
Loris. She had had the pretty green
park and the dewy gardens to herself ; she had
filled her hands with more flowers than she
could carry ; her hair and her clothes were fragrant
with the smell of mown grass and pressed
thyme ; she stole back on tiptoe through the
long corridors, through the still house, for it
was only nine o'clock, and she knew that all
the guests of Felicite were still sleeping.

To her surprise her mother's door opened,
and her mother's voice called her.

Vere went in, fresh and bright as was the
summer morning itself, with the dew upon her

hair and the smell of the blossoms entering
with her, into the warm oppressive air that
was laden with the smells of anodynes and perfumes.


Her mother had already been made pretty
for the day, and a lovely turquoise-blue dressing-robe
enveloped her. She opened her arms, and
folded the child in them, and touched her forehead
with a kiss.

My darling, my sweet child,' she murmured,
' I have some wonderful news for you ;
news that makes me very happy. Vera '

Yes ? ' said Vere, standing with wide-opened
expectant eyes, the flowers falling about her,
the dew sparkling on her hair.

Yes, too happy, my Vera, since it secures
your happiness,' murmured her mother. ' But
perhaps you can guess, dear, though you are so
very young, and you do not even know what
love means. Vera, my sweetest, my old friend
Prince Zouroff has sought you from me in
marriage ! '

Mother ! ' Vere stepped backward, then
stood still again ; a speechless amaze, an utter

incredulity, an unutterable disgust, all speaking
in her face.

Are you startled, darling,' said Lady Dolly,
in her blandest voice. ' Of course you are, you
are such a child. But if you think a moment,
Vera, you will see the extreme compliment it is
to you ; the greatness it offers you ; the security
that the devotion of a '

'Mother!' she cried again; and this time
the word was a cry of horror — a protest of
indignation and outrage.

Don't call me " mother " like that. You
know I hate it ! ' said Lady Dolly, lapsing into
the tone most natural to her. ' " Mother !
mother ! " as if I were beating you with a
poker, like the people in the police reports.
You are so silly, my dear ; I cannot think what
he can have seen in you, but seen something
he has, enough to make him wish to marry
you. You are a baby, but I suppose you can
understand that. It is a very great and good
marriage. Vera ; no one could desire anything
better. You are exceedingly young, indeed,
according to English notions, but they never
VOL. I. E

were my notions, and I think a girl cannot
anyhow be safer than properly married to a
person desirable in every way '

Lady Dolly paused a moment to take breath ;
she felt a little excited, a little exhausted, and
there was that in the colourless face of her
daughter which frightened her, as she had been
frightened in her bed, wondering if the dead
came back on earth.

She made a little forward caressing movement,
and would have kissed her again, but
Yere moved away, her eyes were darkened
with anger, and her lips were tremulous.

Prince ZourofP is a coward,' said the girl,
very low, but very bitterly. ^ He knows that
T loathe him, and that I think him a bad man.
How dare he — how dare he — insult me so ! '

Insult you ! ' echoed Lady Dolly, with
almost a scream. 'Are you mad? Insult
you ! A man that all Europe has been wild to
marry these fifteen years past ! Insult you !
A man who offers you an alliance that will
send you out of a room before everybody except
actually princesses of the blood ? Insult you !

When was ever an offer of marriage thought
an insult in society ? '

I think it can be the greatest one,' said
Yere, still under her breath.

You think ! Who are you to think ?
Pray have no thoughts at all unless they are
wiser than that. You are startled, my dear;
that is perhaps natural. You did not see he
was in love with you, though everyone else
did.'

Oh, do not say such horrible words ! '

The blood rushed to the child's face, and
she covered her eyes with her hands. She was
hurt, deeply, passionately — hurt and humiliated,
in a way that her mother could no more have
understood than she could have understood the
paths travelled by the invisible stars.

'Eeally you are too ridiculous,' she said
impatiently. ' Even you, I should think, must
know what love means. I believe even at
Bulmer you read "Waverley." You have
charmed Sergius Zouroff, and it is a very great
victory, and if all this surprise and disgust at
it is not a mere piece of acting, yon must be

r2

absolutely brainless absolutely idiotic ! You
cannot seriously mean that a man insults you
when he offers you a position that has been
coveted by half Europe.'

'When he knows that I cannot endure
him said Yere with flashing eyes ; 'it is an
insult ; tell him so from me. Oh mother !
mother ! that you could even call me to hear
such a thing. . I do not want to marry
anyone ; I do not wish ever to marry. Let me
go back to Bulmer. I am not made for the
world, nor it for me.'

You are not, indeed ! ' said her mother in
exasperation and disgust, feeling her own rage
and anxiety like two strangling hands at her
throat. * Nevertheless, into the world you will
go as Princess Zouroff. The alliance suits me,
and I am not easily dissuaded from what I
wish. Your heroics count for nothing. All
girls of sixteen are gushing and silly. I was
too. It is an immense thing that you have
such a stroke of good fortune. I quite despaired
of you. You are very lovely, but you
are old-fashioned, pedantic, unpleasant. You

have no chic. You have no malleability. You
are handsome, and that is all. It is a wonderful
thing that you should have made such a
coup as this before you are even out. You are
quite penniless ; quite, did you understand
that? You have no claim on Mr. Wanders
and I am not at all sure that he will
not make a great piece of work when I leave
him to pay for jo\xv trousseau as I must do,
for I can't pay for it, and none of the Herbert
will; they are all poor and proud as church
mice, and though Zouroff will of course send
you a corneille, all the rest must come from me,
and must be perfect and abundant, and from all
the best houses.'

Yere struck her foot on the floor. It was
the first gesture of passion that she had ever
given way to since her birth.

That is enough, mother ! ' she said aloud
and very firmly. 'Put it in what words you
like to Prince ZourofP, but tell him from me
that I will not marry him. I will not. That
is enough.'

Then, before her mother could speak again,

she gathered up the dew-wet flowers m her
hand and left the room.

Lady Dolly shrugged her shoulders, and
swore a little naughty oath, as if she had lost
fifty pounds at bezique.

She was pale and excited, offended and very
angry, but she was not afraid. Girls were
always like that, she thought. Only, for the
immediate moment it was difficult.

She sat and meditated awhile, then made
up her mind. She had nerved herself in the
night that was just past to put her child in the
brazen hands of Moloch because it suited her,
because it served her, because she had let her
little weak conscience sink utterly, and down
in the deeps ; and having once made up her
mind she was resolved to have her will. Like
all weak people, she could be cruel, and she
was cruel now.

When the midday chimes rang with music
from the clock-tower, Lady Dolly went out of
her own room downstairs. It was the habit at
Felicite for the guests to meet at a one o'clock
breakfast — being in the country they thought

it well to rise early. Serge Zouroff, as he met
her, smiled.

Eh lien ? ' he asked.

The smile made Lady Dolly feel sick and
cold, but she looked softly into his eyes.

'Dear friend, do not be in haste. My
child is such a child — she is flattered — deeply
moved — but startled. She has no thought of
any such ideas, you know; she can scarcely
understand. Leave her to me for a day or
two. Do not hurry her. This morning, if you
will lend me a pony carriage, I will drive over
with her to Le Caprice and stay a night or
so. I shall talk to her, and then '

Zouroff laughed grimly.

Ma helle, your daughter detests me ; but I
do not mind that. You may say it out ; it will
make no difference — to us.'

You are wrong there,' said Lady Dolly so
blandly and serenely that even he was deceived,
and believed her for once to be speaking the
truth. ' She neither Uses you nor dislikes you,
because her mind is in its chrysalis state — isn't
it a chrysalis, the thing that is rolled up in a

shell asleep? — and of love and marriage my
Vera is as unconscious as those china children
yonder holding up the breakfast bouquets. She
is cold, you know; that you see for yourself
'

Tin head default ! '

Un head default in a girl assented Lady
Dolly. ' Yes. I would not have her otherwise,
my poor fatherless darling, nor would you, I
know. But it makes it difficult to bring her
to say ' yes,' you see ; not because she has any
feeling against you, but simply because she has
no feeling at all as yet. Unless girls are precocious
it is always so — hush — don't let them
overhear us. We don't want it talked about at
present, do we ? '

As you like,' said ZourofP moodily.

He was offended, and yet he was pleased ;
offended because he was used to instantaneous
victory, pleased because this grey-eyed maiden
proved of the stuff that he had fancied her. Fora
moment he thought he would take the task of
persuasion out of her mother's hands and into
his own, but he was an indolent man, and effort

was disagreeable to him, and he was worried at
that moment by the pretensions of one of the
actresses at the mignonette a mile off across the
park.

My Vera is not very well this morning. She
has got a little chill volunteered Lady Dolly
to Madame Nelaguine, and the table generally.

I saw Miss Herbert in the gardens as I
went to bed at sunrise,' said Fuschia Leach
in her high far-reaching voice. ' I surmise
morning dew is bad for the health.'

People laughed. It was felt there was
something ' about Vere and her absence, and
the women were inclined to think that, despite
Loris and the silver collar, their host had not
come to the point, and Lady Dolly was about
to retreat.

After all, it would be preposterous,' they
argued. 'A child, not even out, and one of
those Mull Herbertss without a penny.'

Won't you come down ? ' said Lady Dolly
sharply to Yere a little later.

I will come down if I may say the truth to
Prince Zouroff.'

Until you accept him you will say nothing
to him. It is impossible to keep you here
soudan like this. It becomes ridiculous. What
will all those women say ! . . . I will drive you
over to Laure's. We will stay there a few
days, and you will hear reason.'

I will not marry Prince Zouroff,' said Yere.

After her first disgust and anger that subject
scarcely troubled her. They could not marry
her against her will. She had only to be firm,
she thought ; and her nature was firm almost
to stubbornness.

We will see,' said her mother, drily. ' Get
ready to go with me in an hour.'

Vere, left to herself, undid the collar of
Loris, made it in a packet, and wrote a little
note, which said : —

I thank you very much. Monsieur, for the
honour that I hear from my mother you do mein
your wish that I should marry you. Yet I
wonder that you do wish it, because you know
well that I have not that feeling for you which
could make me care for or respect you. Please

to take back this beautiful collar, which is too

heavy for Loris. Loris I will always keep, and

I am very fond of him. I should be glad if you

would tell my mother that you have had this

letter and I beg you to believe me, Monsieur,

yours gratefully,

'Verb Herbert.'

She read the note several times, and thought
that it would do. She did not like to write
more coldly, lest she should seem heartless, and
though her first impulse had been to look on
the offer as an insult, perhaps he did not mean
it so, she reflected ; perhaps he did not understand
how she disliked him. She directed her
packet, and sealed it, and called her maid.

Will you take that to Monsieur Zouroff at
once,' she said. ^ Give it to him into his own
hands.'

The maid took the packet to her superior,
Adrienne ; Adrienne the wise took it to her
mistress ; Lady Dolly glanced at it and put it
carelessly aside.

Ah ! the dog's collar to go to Paris to be

enlarged ? very well ; leave it there ; it is of no
consequence just now.'

Adrienne the wise understood very well.

*If Mademoiselle ask you she instructed
her underling, 'you will say that Monsieur le
Prince had the packet quite safe.'

But Yere did not even ask, because she had
not lived long enough in the world to doubt the
good faith even of a waiting-maid. At Buhner
the servants were old-fashioned, like the place,
and the Waverley novels. They told the truth,
as they wore boots that wanted blacking.

If the little note had found its way to Serge
Zouroff it might have touched his heart; it
would have touched his pride, and Vere would
have been left free. As it was, the packet reposed
amidst Lady Dolly's pocket-handkerchiefs
and perfumes till it was burnt with a pastille
in the body of a Japanese dragon.

Vere, quite tranquil, went to Le Caprice in
the sunny afternoon with her mother, never
doubting that Prince Zouroff had had it.

She did not see him, and thought that it
was because he lead read her message and resented

it. In point of fact she did not see him
because he was at the mignonette in the park,
where the feminine portion of the troop had
grown so quarrelsome and so exacting that they
were threatening to make him a scene up at the
chateau.

What are your great ladies better than we? '
they cried in revolt. He granted that they were
no better; nevertheless, the prejudices of society
were so constituted that chateau and mignonette
could not meet, and he bade their director
bundle them all back to Paris, like a cage of
dangerous animals that might at any moment
escape.

'You will be here for the ball for the Prince
de Galles ? ' said Princess Nelaguine to Lady
Dolly ; who nodded and laughed.

To be sure ; thanks ; I only go for a few
days, love.'

Are we coming back ? ' said Vere, aghast.

Certainly,' said her mother sharply, striking
her ponies ; and the child's heart sank.

'But he will have had my letter,' she
thought, ' and then he will let me alone.'

Le Caprice was a charming house, with a
charming chatelaine and charming people were
gathered in it for the sea and the shooting ; but
Yere began to hate the pretty picturesque
women, the sound of the laughter, the babble
of society, the elegance and the luxury, and all
the graceful nothings that make up the habits
and pleasures of a grand house. She felt very
lonely in it all, and when, for sake of her beauty,
men gathered about her, she seemed stupid
because she was filled . with a shy terror
of them; perhaps they would want to marry
her too, she thought ; and her fair low brow
got a little frown on it that made her look
sullen.

Your daughter is lovely, ma chere, but she
is not sweet-tempered like you,' said the hostess
to Lady Dolly, who sighed

^ Ah no ! ' she answered, ' she is cross, poor
pet, sometimes, and hard to please. Now, I
am never out of temper, and any little thing
amuses me that my friends are kind enough todo.
I don't know where Yera got her character ;
from some dead and gone Herbert, I suppose.

who must have been very disagreeable in his
generation.'

And that night and every night she said the
same thing to Vere : ' Yon must marry Serge
Zouroff;' and Vere every night replied, ' I have
told him I will not. I will not.'

Lady Dolly never let her know that her
letter had been burned.

Your letter ? ' she had said when Vere
spoke of it. ' No ; he never told me anything
of it. But whatever you might say, he
wouldn't mind it, my dear. You take his
fancy, and he means to marry you.'

Then he is no gentleman,' said the girl.

Oh, about that, I don't know,' said Lady
Dolly. 'Your idea of a gentleman, I believe,
is a man who makes himself up as Faust or
Romeo, and screams for so many guineas a
night. We won't discuss that.'

Vere's face burned, but she was mute. It
seemed to her that her mother had grown
coarse as well as cruel. There was a hardness
in her mother that she had never felt before.
That her letter should have been read by Serge

Zouroff, yet make no impression on him, seemed
to her so dastardly that it left her no hope to
move him ; no hope anywhere except in her own
resistance.

Three days later, Prince Zouroff drove over
to Le Caprice, and saw Lady Dolly alone.

Vere was not asked for, and was thankful.
Her eyes wistfully questioned her mother's
when they met, but Lady Dolly's were revealing
and did not meet her gaze.

The house was full of movement and of
mirth ; there were batteries every evening, and
distractions of all kinds. Lady Dolly was
always flirting, laughing, dancing, amusing
herself; Vere was silent, grave, and cold,

You are much younger than your daughter,
Madame Dolly,' said an old admirer ; and
Lady Dolly resided those pretty curls which
had cost her fifty francs a lock.

Ah ! Youth is a thing of temperament
more than of years. That I do think. My
Vera is so hard to please, and I — everything
amuses me, and everyone to me seems charming.'

But this sunny, smiling little visage changed

when, every evening before dinner, she came
to her daughter's room, and urged, and argued,
and abused, and railed, and entreated, and
sobbed, and said her sermon again, and again,
and again ; all in vain.

Vere said but few words, but they were
always of the same meaning.

^I will not marry Prince Zouroff,' she said
always. 'It is of no use to ask me. I will
not.'

And the little frown deepened between her
eyes, and the smile that Correze had seen upon
her classic mouth now never came there. She
grew harassed and anxious.

Since her letter had made no impression on
him how could she escape this weariness ?

One evening she heard some people in the
drawing-rooms talking of Correze.

They said that he had been singing in the
*fidelia,' and surpassing himself, and that a
young and beautiful Grand Duchess had made
herself conspicuous by her idolatry of him ; so
conspicuous that he had been requested to
leave Germany, and had refused, placing the
VOL. I. s

authorities in the difficult position of either
receding ridiculously or being obliged to use
illegal force ; there would be terrible scandal
in high places, but Correze was always acca-
jpareur des femmes 1

Vere moved away with a beating heart and
a burning cheek ; through the murmur of the
conversation around her she seemed to hear
the exquisite notes of that one divine voice
which had dropped and deepened to so simple
and tender a solemnity as it had bidden her
keep herself unspotted from the world.

What would he say if he knew what they
want me to do ! ' she thought. ' If he knew
that my mother even — my mother ! '

For, not even though her mother was
Lady Dolly, could Vere quite abandon the
fancy that motherhood was a sweet and sacred
altar on which the young could seek shelter
and safety from all evils and ills.

The week at Le Caprice came to an end,
and the four days at Abbaye aux Bois also,
and, in the last hours of their two days at
the Abbaye, Lady Dolly said to her daughter :

To-morrow is the Princes' ball at Felicite,
I suppose you remember ? '

Vere gave a sign of assent.

That is the loveliest frock La Ferries has
sent you for it ; if you had any heart you would
kiss me for such a gown, but you have none,
you never will have any.'

Vere was silent.

I must speak to you seriously and for the
last time here,' said her mother. 'We go back
to Felicite, and Sergius will want his answer.
I can put him off no longer.'

He has had it.'

How ? ' said Lady Dolly, forgetting for the
moment the letter she had burned. ' Oh, your
letter ? Of course he regarded it as a baby's
hostage; I am sure it was badly worded
enough.'

He showed it you then ? '

Yes ; he showed it me. It hurt him, of
course ; but it did not change him,' said her
mother, a little hurriedly. 'Men of his age
are not so easily changed. I tell you once for

S 2

all, Vere, that I shall come to you to-night for
the last time for your final word, and I tell you
that you must be seen at that ball tomorrow
night as the fiancee of Zouroff. I am quite
resolute, and I will have no more shillyshallying
or hesitation.'

Vere's face grew warm, and she threw back
her head with an eager gesture.

Hesitation ! I have never hesitated for
an instant. I tell you, mother, and I have
told you a hundred times, I will not marry
Prince ZourofP.'

'You will wear the new gown and you
shall have my pearls,' pursued her mother, as
though she had not heard ; ' and I shall take
care that when you are presented to his Royal
Highness he shall know that you are already
betrothed to Zouroff ; it will be the best way
to announce it nettement to the world. You
will not wear my pearls again, for Zouroff has
already ordered yours.'

Vere started to her feet.

And I will stamp them to pieces if he give
them to me; and if you tell the Prince of

Wales such a thing of me I will tell him the
truth and ask his help -, he is always kind and
good.'

The pearls are ordered said her mother
unmoved ; ' and you are really too silly for
anything. The idea of making the poor Prince
a scene ! — you have such a passion for scenes,
and there is nothing such bad form. I shall
come to you to-night after dinner, and let me
find you more reasonable.'

With that Lady Dolly went out of the
room, and out of the house, and went on the
sea with her adorers, laughing lightly and
singing naughty little chansons not ill. But
her heart was not as light as her laugh, and,
bold little woman as she was when she had
nerved herself to do wrong, her nerves troubled
her as she thought that the morrow was the
last, the very last, day on which she could any
longer procrastinate and dally with Serge
Zouroff.

I will go and talk to her,' said Lady Stoat,
who had driven over from Felicite, when she
had been wearied by her dear Dolly's lamentations,

until she felt that even her friendship
could not bear them much longer.

But she hates him cried Lady Dolly, for
the twentieth time.

they always say that, dear,' answered
Lady Stoat tranquilly. ' They mean it, too,
poor little things. It is just as they hated
their lessons, yet they did their lessons, dear,
and are all the better for having done them.
You seem to me to attach sadly too much
importance to a child's hostages,'

If it were only hostages ! But you do
not know Yere.'

1 cannot think, dear, that your child can
be so very extraordinarily unlike the rest of
the human species,' said her friend with her
pleasant smile. ' Well, I will go and see this
young monster. She has always seemed tome
a little Puritan, nothing worse, and that
you should have been prepared for, leaving her
all her life at Buhner Chase.'

Lady Stoat then went upstairs and knocked
at the door of Yere's chamber, and entered
with the soft, silent charm of movement which

was one of the especial graces of that graceful
gentlewoman. She kissed the girl tenderly,
regardless that Vere drew herself away
somewhat rudely, and then sank down in a
chair.

My child, do you know I am come to talk
to you quite frankly and affectionately,' she
said in her gentle, slow voice. ' You know
what friendship has always existed between
your dear mother and myself, and you will
believe that your welfare is dear to me for her
sake — very dear.'

Vere looked at her, but did not speak.

'An uncomfortable girl,' thought Lady
Stoat, a little discomfited, but she resumed
blandly, * Your mamma has brought me some
news that it is very pleasant to hear, and gives
me sincere happiness, because, by it your
happiness, and through yours hers, is secured.
My own dear daughter is only two years older
than you are, Vere, and she is married, as you
know, and ah ! so happy ! '

Happy with the Duke of Birkenhead ? '
said Vere abruptly.

Lady Stoat was, for the moment, a little
staggered.

What a very unpleasant child,' she thought ;
and who would think she knew anything
about poor Birk ! '

Very happy,' she continued aloud, ' and I
am charmed to think, my dear, that you have
the chance of being equally so. Your mamma
tells me, love, that you are a little — a little—
bewildered at so brilliant a proposal of marriage
as Prince Zouroff's. That is a very natural
feeling ; of course you had never thought
about any such thing.'

'I had not thought about it,' said Vere
bluntly. ' I have thought now; but I do not
understand why he can want such a thing. He
knows very well that I do not like him. If
you will tell him for me that I do not I shall
be glad ; my mother will never tell him plainly
enough.'

My sweet Vere ! ' said Lady Stoat smilingly.
' Pray do not give me the mission of
breaking my host's heart ; I would as soon
break his china ! Of course your mamma will

not tell him anything of the kind. She is
charmed, my dear girl, charmed ! What better
future could she hope for, for you? The
Zouroffs are one of the greatest families in
Europe, and I am quite sure your sentiments,
your jewels, your everything, will be worthy of
the exalted place you will fill.'

Vere's face grew very cold.

My mother has sent you ? ' she said, more
rudely than her companion had ever been
addressed in all her serene existence. ' Then
will you kindly go back to her, Lady Stoat, and
tell her it is of no use ; I will not marry Prince
ZourofP.'

That is not very prettily said, my dear.
If I am come to talk to you it is certainly in
your own interests only. I have seen young
girls like you throw all their lives away for
mere want of a little reflection.'

I have reflected.'

Reflected as much as sixteen can ! — oh
yes. But that is not quite what I mean. I
want you to reflect, looking through the
glasses of my experience and affection, and

your mother's. You are very young,
Vere.'

Charlotte Corday was almost as young as
I am, and Jeanne d'Arc/

Lady Stoat stared, then laughed.

I don't know where they come, either of
them, in our argument, but if they had been
married at sixteen it would have been a very
good thing for both of them ! You are a little
girl now, my child, though you are nearly six
feet high ! You are a demoiselle a marier.
You can only wear pearls, and you are not
even presented. You are no one ; nothing.
Society has hundreds like you. If you do not
marry, people will fancy you are old whilst you
are still twenty ; people will say of you " She
is getting passee ; she was out years and years
ago." Yes, they will say it even if you are
handsomer than ever, and, what will be worse,
you will begin to feel it .'

Vere was silent, and Lady Stoat thought
that she had made some impression.

You will begin to feel it ; then you will
be glad to marry anybody, and there is nothing

more terrible than that. You will take a
younger son of a baronet, or a secretary of
legation that is going to Hong Kong or Chili
anything, anybody, to get out of yourself,
and not to see your own face in the ball-room
mirrors. Now, if you marry early, and marry
brilliantly — and this marriage is most brilliant
no such terrors will await you ; you can
wear diamonds, and, oh Vere ! till you wear
diamonds you do not know what life is ! — you
can go where you like, as you like, your own mistress
; you are i^osee ; you have made yourself a
power while your contemporaries are still debilitated
in white frocks ; you will have your
children, and find all serious interests in them,
if you like ; you will have all that is best in life,
in fact, and have it before you are twenty ; you
will be painted by Millais and clothed by
Worth ; you will be a politician if you like, ora
fashionable beauty if you like, or only a great
lady — perhaps the simplest and best thing of
all; and you will be this, and have all this,
merely because you married early and married
well. My dear, such a marriage is to a girl

like being sent on the battle-field to a boy in
the army ; it is the baptism of fire with every
decoration as its rewards ! '

The Cross too ? ' said Vere.

Lady Stoat, who had spoken eloquently, and,
in her own light, sincerely, was taken aback by
the irony of the accent and the enigma of the
smile. * A most strange child,' she thought ; * no
wonder she worries poor flighty little pussie ! '

'The Cross? Oh, yes,' she said. * What
answers to the boy's Iron Cross, I suppose, is
to dance in the Quadrille honneur at Court.
Princesse Zouroff would always be in the
Quadrille honneur.'

Princesse Zouroff may be so. I shall not.
And it was of the Cross you wear, and profess
to worship, that I thought.'

Lady Stoat felt a little embarrassed. She
bowed her head, and touched the iona cross in
jewels that hung at her throat,

Darling, those are serious and solemn
words, A great marriage may be made subservient,
like any other action of our lives, to
God's service.'

But surely one ought to love to marry ? '

My dear child, that is an idea ; love is an
idea; it doesn't last, you know; it is fancy;
what is needful is solid esteem '

Lady Stoat paused; even to her it was
difficult to speak of solid esteem for Sergius
Zouroff. She took up another and safer line
of argument.

You must learn to understand, my sweet
Vere, that life is prose, not poetry ; Heaven
forbid that I should be one to urge you to any
sort of worldliness ; but still, truth is everything
; truth compels me to point out to you
that, in the age we live in, a great position
means vast power and ability of doing good,
and that is not a thing to be slighted by anywise
woman who would make her life beautiful
and useful. Prince Zouroff adores you; he
can give you one of the first positions in
Europe ; your mother, who loves you tenderly,
though she may seem negligent, desires such a
marriage for you beyond all others. Opposition
on your part is foolishness, my child,
foolishness, blindness, and rebellion.'

The face of Vere as she listened lost its
childish softness, and grew very cold.

I understand ; my mother does not want
me, Mr. Vanderdecken does not want me ;
this Eussian prince is the first who asks forme,
— so I am to be sold because he is rich. I
will not be sold ! '

What exaggerated language, my love.
Pray do not exaggerate ; no one uses inflated
language now ; even on the stage they don't,
it has gone out. Who speaks of jour being
sold, as if you were a slave ? Quelle idee ! A
brilliant, a magnificent, alliance is open to
you, that is all ; every unmarried woman in
society will envy you. I assure you if Prince
Zouroff had solicited the hand of my own
daughter, I would have given it to him with
content and joy.'

1 have no doubt you would,' said the girl
curtly.

Lady Stoat's sweet temper rose a little
under the words.

You are very beautiful, my dear, but your
manners leave very much to be desired,' sh

said almost sharply. 'If you were not poor
little Dolly's child I should not trouble myself
to reason with you, but let you destroy yourself
like an obstinate baby as you are. What can
be your objection to Prince Sergius? Now
be reasonable for once ; tell me.

I am sure he is a bad man.'

My love ! What should you know about
bad men, or good ones either ? '

I am sure he is bad — and cruel.'

What nonsense ! I am sure he has been
charming to you, and you are very ungrateful.
What can have given you such an impression
of your devoted adorer ? '

Vere shuddered a little with disgust.

I hate Mm I ' she said under her breath.

Lady Stoat for a moment was startled.

'Where could she get her melodrama
from ? ' she wondered. ' Dolly was never melodramatic
; nor any of the Herbert people ; it
really makes one fancy poor pussy must have
had a 'petite faute with a tragic actor ! '

Aloud she answered gently :

You have a sad habit, my Vere, of using

very strong words ; it is not nice ; and you do
not mean one-tenth that you say in your haste.
No Christian ever hates, and in a girl such a
feeling would be horrible — if you meant it —
but you do not mean it.'

Vere shut her proud lips closer, but there
was a meaning upon them that made her
companion hesitate, and feel uncomfortable,
and at a loss for words.

'How wonderful that pussy should ever
have had a daughter like this ! ' she thought,
and then smiled in a sweet, mild way.

Poor Serge ! That he should have been the
desired of all Europe, only to be rejected by a
child of sixteen ! Eeally it is like — who was
it ? — winning a hundred battles and then dying
of a cherry-stone ! There is nothing he couldn't
give you, nothing he wouldn't give you, you
thankless little creature ! '

Vere, standing very slender and tall, with

her face averted and her fair head in the glow

of the sunset light, made no reply ; but her

attitude and her silence were all eloquent.

Lady Stoat thought to herself, 'Dear, dear!

what a charming Iphigenia she would look in a
theatre ; but there is no use for all that in real
Life. How to convince her ? '

Even Lady Stoat was perplexed.

She began to talk vaguely and gorgeously
of the great place of the ZourofP family in the
world ; of their enormous estates, of their
Urine mines, of their Imperial favour, of their
right to sit covered at certain courts, of their
magnificence in Paris, their munificence in
Petersburg, their power, their fashion, and
their pomp.

Vere waited, till the long discursive descriptions
ended of themselves, exhausted by
their own oratory. Then she said very sin ply
and very coldly :

Do you believe in God, Lady Stoat ? '

In God ? ' echoed Lady Stoat, shocked and
amazed.

Do you or not ? '

My dear ! Goodness ! Pray do not say such
things to me. As if I were an infidel ! — I! '

/ Then how can you bid me take His name
in vain, and marry Prince Zouroff P '

VOL. I. T

I do not see the connection,' began Lady
Stoat vaguely, and very wearily.

'I have read the marriage service said
Vere, with a passing heat upon her pale cheeks
for a moment.

Lady Stoat for once was silent.

She was very nearly going to reply that the
marriage service was of old date and of an exaggerated
style ; that it was not in good taste,
and in no degree to be interpreted literally ;
but such an avowal was impossible to a woman
who revered the ritual of her Church, and was
bound to accept it unquestioned. So she was
silent and vanquished — so far.

May I go now ? ' said Vere.

Certainly, love, if you wish, but you must
let me talk to you again. I am sure you will
change and please your mother — your lovely
little mother! — whom you ought to live for, you
naughty child, so sweet and so dear as she is.'

She has never lived for me,' thought Vere,
but she did not say so ; she merely made the
deep curtsey she had learned at Bulmer Chase,
which had the serene and stately grace in it of

another century than her own, and, without
another word, passed out of the room.

Quel enfant terrible I ' murmured Lady
Stoat, with a shiver and a sigh.

Lady Stoat was quite in earnest, and meant
well. She knew perfectly that Sergius Zouroff
was a man whose vices were such as the world
does not care even to name, and that his temper
was that of a savage bull-dog allied to the
petulant exactions of a spoilt child. She knew
that perfectly, but she had known as bad things
of her own son-in-law, and had not stayed her
own daughter's marriage on that account.

Position was everything, Lady Stoat thought,
the man himself nothing. Men were all sadly
much alike, she believed. Being a woman of
refined taste and pure life, she did not even
think about such ugly things as male vices.

Lady Stoat was one of those happy people
who only see just so much as they wish to see.
It is the most comfortable of all myopisms.
She had had, herself, a husband far from
virtuous, but she had always turned a deaf ear
to all who would have told her of his failings.
t2

I do my own duty ; that is enough for me
she would answer sweetly ; and, naturally, she
wondered why other women could not be similarly
content with doing theirs — when they had
a Position. Without a position she could imagine,
good woman though she was, that things
were very trying; and that people worried
more. As for herself, she had never worried,
and she had no sympathy with worry in any
shape. So that when Lady Dolly came to her
weeping, excited, furious, hopeless, over her
daughter's wicked obstinacy. Lady Stoat only
laughed at her in a gentle rallying way.

'You little goose! As if girls were not
always like that ! She has got Correze in her
head still, and she is a difficult sort of nature,
I grant. What does it matter after all ? You
have only to be firm. She will come to reason.'

But I never, never could be firm,' sobbed
Lady Dolly. 'The Herbertss are, I am not.
And Vere is just like her father; when I asked
him to have a stole and a rochet and look
nice, nothing would induce him, because he
sid something about his bishop '

Lady Stoat, in her superior wisdom, smiled
once more.

Was poor Yere so very low in the matter
of vestments ? How curious ; the Herbertss
were Catholic until James the First's time.
But why do you fret so? The child is a beauty,
really a beauty. Even if she persist in her
hatred of Zouroff she will marry well, I am
sure; and she must not persis: in it. You must
have common sense.'

But what can one do ? ' said Lady Dolly in
desperation. ' It is all very easy to talk, but it
is not such a little thing to force a girl's will in
these days; she can make a fuss, and then
society abuses you, and I think the police even
can interfere, and the Lord Chancellor if she
have no father.'

And Lady Dolly sobbed afresh.

Dear little goose ! ' said Lady Stoat consolingly,
but rather wearied. ' Of course nobody
uses force ; there are a thousand pleasant
ways — children never know what is best for
them. We, who are their nearest and dearest,
must take care of their tender, foolish, ignorant,

young lives, committed to us for guidance.
Gwendolen even was reluctant — but now in'
every letter she sends me she says, "Oh,
mamma, how right you were ! " That is what
your Vera will say to you, darling, a year
hence, when she will have been Princess
Zouroff long enough to have got used to him.'

Lady Dolly shivered a little at all that the
words implied.

Tier friend glanced at her.

^ If Zouroff cause you apprehension for any
reason I am unaware of,' she said softly ; ' there
are others ; though, to be sure, as your pretty
child is portionless, it may be difficult '

No, it must be Zouroff,' said Lady Dolly,
nervously and quickly. ' She has no money, as
you say ; and everyone wants money nowadays.'

Except a Eussian,' said Lady Stoat, with
a smile. * Then, since you wish for him, take
him now he is to be bad. But I would advise
you not to dawdle, love. Men like him, if they
are denied one fancy soon change to another ;
and he has all the world to console him for
Vere's loss.'

I have told him he should have her answer
in a day or two. I said she was shy, timid,
too surprised ; he seems to like that.'

Of course he likes it. Men always like it
in women they mean to make their wives.
Then, in a day or two, you must convince her ;
that is all. I do not say it will be easy with
her very obstinate and peculiar temperament.
But it will be possible.'

Lady Dolly was mute.

She envied her dear Adine that hand of
steel under the glove of velvet. She herself
had it not. Lady Dolly was of that pliant
temper, which, according to the temperature it
dwells in, becomes either harmless or worthless.
She had nothing of the mattress femme
about her. She was always doing things that
she wished were undone, and knotting entanglements
that she could not unravel. She
was no ruler of others, except in a coquettish,
petulant fashion, of ' Jack — and the rest.'

And she had that terrible drawback to
comfort and impediment to success — a conscience,
that was sluggish and fitful, and sleepy

and feeble, but not wholly dead. Only this
conscience, unhappily, was like a very tiny,
weak, swimmer stemming a very strong opposing
tide.

Tn a moment or two the swimmer gave
over, and the opposing tide had all its own way.

After dinner that evening, whilst the rest
were dancing, Vere slipped away unnoticed to
her own room, a little tiny turret-room, of which
the window almost overhung the sea. She
opened the lattice, and leaned out into the cool
fragrant night. The sky was cloudless, the sea
silvery in the moonlight; from the gardens
below there arose the scent of datnra and tuberose.
It was all so peaceful and so sweet, the
girl could not understand why, amidst it all,
she must be so unhappy.

Since Zouroff had had her letter there was
no longer any hope of changing his resolve by
telling him the truth, and a sombre hatred
began to grow up in her against this man, who
seemed to her her tormentor and her tyrant.

What hurt her most was that her own
mother should urge this horror upon her.

She could see no key to the mystery of such
a wish except in the fact that her mother
cruelly desired to be rid of her at all cost ; and
she had written a letter to her grandmother at
Bulmer Chase — a letter that lay by her on the
table ready to go down to the post-bag in the
morning.

Granada loves me in her own harsh
way,' the child thought. ' She will take me
back for a little time at least, and then, if she
do not like to keep me, perhaps I could keep
myself in some way ; I think I could if they
would let me. I might go to the Fraulein in
her own country and study music at Baireutli,
and make a career of it. There would be no
shame iu that.'

And the thought of Correze came softly over
her as the memory of fair music will come in a
day-dream.

Not as any thought of love. She had read
no romances save dear Sir Walter's, which
alone, of all the erring tribe of fiction, held a
place on the dark oak-shelves of the library at
Bulmer.

Correze was to her like a beautiful fancy
rather than a living being, — a star that shot
across a summer sky and passed unseen to
brighter worlds than ours.

He was a saint to the child — he who to
himself was a sad sinner — and his words dwelt
in her heart like a talisman against all evil.

She sat all alone, and dreamt innocently
of going into the mystic German land and
learning music in all its heights and depths,
and living nobly, and being never wedded (soh,
never, never ! ' she said to herself with a
burning face and a shrinking heart) ; and some
day meeting Correze, the wonder of the world,
and looking at him without shame and saying,
I have done as you told me ; I have never been
burnt in the flame as you feared. Are you
glad?'

It did not, as yet, seem hard to her to do so.
The world was to her personified in the great
vague horror of Serge Zouroff's name, and it
cost her no more to repulse it than it costs a
child to flee from some painted monster that
gapes at it from a wall.

This night, after Lady Stoat's ineffectual
efforts at conversion, Lady Dolly herself once
more sought her daughter, and renewed the
argument with more asperity and more callousness
than she had previously shown.

Vere was still sitting in her own chamber,
trying to read, but, in truth, always thinking
of the bidding of Correze, ' Keep yourself
unspotted from the world.'

Dreaming so, with her hands buried in the
golden clustering hair, and her lids drooped
over her eyes, she started at the voice of her
mother; and, with pain and impatience, listened
with unwilling ear to the string of reproaches,
entreaties, and censure that had lately become
as much the burden of her day as the morning-prayer
at Buhner had been, droned by the
duchess's dull voice to the sleepy household.

Yere raised herself and listened, with that
dutifulness of the old fashion which contrasted
so strangely in her, her mother thought, with
her rebellion and self-willed character. But she
grew very weary.

Lady Dolly, less delicate in her diplomacy

than her friend had been, did not use euphuisms
at all, nor attempt to take any high moral point.
Broadly and unhesitatingly she painted all that
Series Zouroff had it in his power to bestow,
and the text of her endless sermon was, that to
reject such gifts was wickedness.

At the close she grew passionate.

You think of love,' she said. ' Oh, it is of
no use your saying you don't; you do. All
girls do. I did. I married your father. We
were as much in love as any creatures in a poem.
When I had lived a month in that wretched
parsonage by the sea, I knew what a little fool
I had been. I had had such wedding presents !
such presents ! The queen had sent me a
cachemire for poor papa's sake ; yet, down in
that horrid place, we had to eat pork, and there
was only a metal teapot ! Oh, you smile ! it is
nothing to smile at. Yere used to smile just as
you do. He would have taken the cachemire
to wrap an old woman up in, very probably ;
and he wouldn't have known whether he ate a
peach or a pig. I knew ; and whenever they
put that tea in the metal teapot, I knew the

cost of young love. Respect your father's
memory ? Stuff ! I am not saying anything
against him, poor dear fellow; he was very
good — in his way, excellent ; but he had made
a mistake, and I too. I told him so twenty
times a day, and he only sighed and went out
to his old women. I tell you this only to show
you I know what I am talking about. Love
and marriage are two totally different things ;
they ought never to be named together ; they
are cat and dog ; one kills the other. Pray do
not stare so ; you make me nervous.'

'It is not wicked to love?' said Vere slowly.

Wicked ? no ; what nonsense ! It amuses
one ; it doesn't last.'

A great love must last, till death, and after
it,' said the child, with solemn eyes.

After it 9 ' echoed Lady Dolly with a little
laugh. ' I'm afraid that would make a very
naughty sort of place of Heaven. Don't look
so shocked, child. You know nothing about it.
Believe me, dear, where two lovers go on year
after year, it is only for Pont de Velle's reason
to Madame de Defiant : ' Nous sommes si

mortellemeiit ensues Tun de Autre que nous
lie pouvons plus nous quitter ! '

Vere was silent. Her world of dreams was
turned upside down, and shaken rudely.

'You have no heart, Vere; positively' none,'
said her mother bitterly, resuming all the old
argument. ' I can scarcely think you are my
child. You see me wearing myself to a shadow
for your sake, and yet you have no pity. What
in heaven's name can you want? You are only
sixteen, and one of the first marriages in Europe
opens to you. You ought to go on your knees
in thankfulness, and yet you hesitate ? '

I do not hesitate at all,' said Vere quickly.
I refuse ! '

She rose as she spoke, and looked older by
ten years. There was a haughty resolve in her
attitude that cowed her mother for an instant.

I refuse,' she said again. '' And, if you
will not tell Monsieur ZourofP so yourself, I
will tell him tomorrow. Listen, mother, I
have written to Bulmer, and I will go back
there. Granada will not refuse to take mein,
I shall be a trouble and care to you no

longer. I am not made for your world nor it
for me. I will go. I have some talent, they
have always said, and at least I have perseverance.
I will find some way of maintaining
myself. I want so little, and I know enough
of music to teach it ; and so at least I shall be
free and no burden upon anyone.'

She paused, startled by her mother's
laughter ; such laughter as she, in a later day,
heard from Croizette when Croizette was acting
her own deathbed on the stage of the Francis.

Lady Dolly's shrill, unnatural, ghastly
laughter echoed through the room.

'Is that your scheme? To teach music?
And Correze to teach you, I suppose? la belle
idee ! You little fool ! you little idiot ! how
dare you? Because you are mad, do you think
we are mad too? Go to Bulmer now 1 Never !
I am your mother, and you shall do what I
choose. What I choose is that you shall marry
Zouroff.'

« I will not.'

Will not ? will not ? I say you shall ! '

And I say that I will not.'

They confronted one another; the girl's face
pale, clear and cold in its fresh and perfect
beauty, the woman's grown haggard, fevered,
and fierce in its artificial prettiness.

I will not,' repeated Vere with her teeth
closed. ' And my dead father would say I was
right ; and I will tell this man tomorrow that
I loathe him; and, since surely he mustJbave
some pride to be stung, he will ask for me no
more then.'

'Vere ! you kill me ! ' screamed her mother ;
and, in truth, she fainted, her pretty curly
perruque twisting off her head, her face deathly
pallid save for the unchanging bloom of cheek
and mouth.

It was but a passing swoon, and her maid
soon restored her to semi-consciousness and
then bore her to her room.

What a cold creature is that child,' thought
Adrienne, of Vere. ' She sees miladi insensible,
and stands there with never a tear, or a kiss, ora
cry. What it is to have been brought up in
England ! '

Vere left alone, sat awhile lost in thought.

leaning her head on her hands. Then she rang
and bade them post the letter to Bulmer ; the
dark and drearsome, but safe and familiar
home of her lost childhood.

The letter gone, she undressed and went to
bed. It was midnight. She soon was asleep).

Innocent unhappiness soon finds this rest ;
it is the sinful sorrow of later years that stares,
with eyes that will not close, into the hateful
emptiness of night.

She slept deeply and dreamlessly, the moonbeams
through the high window finding her
out where she lay, her slender limbs, supple
as willow wands, in calm repose, and her long
lashes lying on her cheeks.

Suddenly she woke, startled and alarmed.
A light fell on her eyes ; a hand touched her ;
she was no longer alone.

She raised herself in her bed, and gazed
with a dazzled sight and vague terror into the
yellow rays of the lamp.

Vere ! It is I ! it is I ! ' cried her mother
with a sob in her voice. And Lady Dolly
dropped on her knees beside the bed ; her real
VOL. I. u

hair dishevelled on her shoulders, her face
without false bloom and haggard as the face of
a woman of twice her own years.

Yere, Vere ! you can save me she muttered,
with her hands clasped tight on the
girl's. ' Oh, my dear, I never thought to tell
you ; but, since you will hear no reason, what
can I do? Vere, wake up — listen. I am a
guilty, silly woman ; guiltier, sillier, than you
can dream. You are my child after all, and
owe me some obedience; and you can save
me. Yere, Yere ! do not be cruel ; do not
misjudge me, but listen. You must marry
Sergius Zouroff.'

It was dawn when Lady Dolly crept away
from her daughter's chamber; shivering,
ashamed, contrite, in so far as humiliation and
regret make up contrition ; hiding her blanched
face with the hood of her wrapper as though
the faint, white rays of daybreak were spectators
and witnesses against her.

Yere lay quite still, as she had fallen, upon
her bed, her face upturned, her hands clenched,
her shut lips blue as with great cold. She had
promised what her mother had asked.

On the morrow it was known to all the guests
of the house at which they were staying that
the head of the Princes Zonroff was to marry
the daughter of the Lady Dorothy Wanders


On the morrow Lady Dolly drove back to
Felicite, with her daughter beside her.

She was victorious.

The sun was strong, and the east wind
cold; she was glad that they were so. The
eyes of her daughter were heavy with dark
circles beneath them, and her face was blanched
to a deadly pallor, which changed to a cruel
crimson flush as the turrets and belfries of the
u2

chateau of the Zouroffs came in sight above
the woods of its park.

They had driven the eight miles from Le
Caprice in unbroken silence.

If she would only speak ! ' thought Lady
Dolly ; and yet she felt that she could not have
borne it if her companion had spoken.

They drove round to a ]petit entre at the
back of the house, and were met by no one but
some bowing servants. She had begged in a
little note that it might be so, making some
pretty plea for Yere of maiden shyness. They
were shown straight to their rooms. It was
early ; noonday. The chateau was quite still.
At night the great ball was to be given to the
English princes, but the household was too
well trained to make any disturbance with
their preparations. Down the steps of the
great terrace there was stretched scarlet cloth,
and all the face of the building was hung with
globes and cressets of oil, to be lit at dark.
These were the only outward signs that anything
more brilliant than usual was about to
take place.

You will come to breakfast ? ' said Lady
Dolly, pausing at the threshold of her room.

It was the first word she had said to Yere
since the dawn, when they had parted, and her
own voice sounded strange to her.

Yere shuddered as with cold.

I cannot. Make some excuse.'

'What is the use of putting off? ' said her
mother fretfully. ' You will be ill ; you are ill.
If you should be ill to-night, what will everyone
say? what will he think? what shall I
do?'

Yere went into her chamber and locked her
door. She locked out even her maid; flung
her hat aside, and threw herself forward on the
bed, face downward, and there lay.

Lady Dolly went into her chamber, and
glanced at her own face with horror. Though
made up, as well as usual for the day, she
looked yellow, worn, old.

I must go down ! ' she thought — how
selfish youth was, and how hard a thing was
motherhood ! She had herself dressed beautifully
and took some ether.

She had sunk her drowned conscience
fathoms deep, and begun once more to pity
herself for the obstinacy and oddness of the
child to whom she had given birth. Why
could not the girl be like any others ?

The ether began to move in her veins and
swim in her head ; her eyes grew brighter.
She went out of her room and along the
corridor to the staircase, fastening an autumn
rose or two in her breast, taken from the
bouquet of her dressing-table. As she glanced
down the staircase into the hall where the
servants in the canary-coloured liveries of the
house were going to and fro, she thought of
all the rank and riches of which Felicite was
only one trifling portion and symbol, and
thought to herself that — after all — any mother
would have done as she had done; and no
maiden surely could need a higher reward for
the gift of her innocence to the minotaur of a
loveless marriage.

If I had been married like that ! ' she
thought ; and felt that she had been cruelly
wronged by destiny ; if she had been married

like that, how easy it would have been to have
become a good woman ! What could Yere
complain of? — the marriage was perfect in a
worldly sense, and in any other sense — did it
matter what it was ?

So the ether whispered to her.

She began to taste the sweets of her victory
and to forget the bitter, as the ether brought
its consoling haze over all painful memories,
and lent its stimulating brightness to all
personal vanities.

After all it was very delightful to go down
those stairs, knowing that when she met all
those dear female friends whom she detested,
and who detested her, no one could pity her
and everyone must envy her. She had betrothed
her daughter to one of the richest and
best born men in all Europe. "Was it not the
crown of maternity, as maternity is understood
in society ?

So down she went, and crossed the great
vestibule, looking young, fair, and bewitching
with the roses in her bosom, and an admirably
chosen expression on her face, half glad and

half plaintive, and with a flush under lier
paint that made her look prettier than ever;
her eyes sparkled, her smile vs^as all sunshine
and sweetness, she pressed the hands of
her most intimate friends with an eloquent
tenderness, she was exquisitely arrayed with
cascades of old Mechlin falling from her throat
to her feet.

A mother only lives to be young again in
her child ! ' she said softly — and knew that she
looked herself no more than twenty years old
as she said it.

Sergius Zouroff, profuse in delicate compliment
to her aloud, said to himself:

Brava, naughty Dolly ! Ibis-his ! Will she
ever be like you, I wonder? Perhaps. The
world makes you all alike after a little while.'

He was ready to pay a high price for
innocence, because it was a new toy that pleased
him. But he never thought that it would last,
any more than the bloom lasts on the peach.
He had no illusions. Since it would be agreeable
to brush it off himself, he was ready to
purchase it.

There was a sense of excitement and of
disappointment in the whole house party ; and
Princesse Nelaguine ran from one to another,
with her little bright Tartar eyes all aglow,
murmuring ' Charmed, charmed, charmed ! ' to
impatient ears.

Such a beast as he is ! ' said the men who
smoked his cigars and rode his horses.

'And she who looked all ice and innocence
! ' said the women, already in arms
against her.

Vere did not come down to taste the firstfruits
of her triumph.

At the great midday breakfast, where most
people assembled, she was absent. Zouroff
himself laid another bouquet of orchids by her
plate, but she was not there to receive the
delicate homage.

Mademoiselle Vera has not risen ? ' he
asked now, with an angry contraction of his
low brows, as no one came where the orchids
were lying.

'Vera had a headache,' said Lady Dolly
serenely aloud. ' Or said so,' she murmured

to his ear alone. ' Don't be annoyed. She
was shy. She is a little farouche, you know,
my poor darling.'

ZourofF nodded, and took his caviare.

What did I predict, love ! ' murmured
Lady Stoat, of Stichley, taking her friend aside
after breakfast. 'But how quickly you succeeded!
Last evening only you were in
despair ! Was the resistance only a feint ?
Or what persuasions did you bring to bear ? '

'I threatened to send her to Bulmer
Chase ! ' said Lady Dolly with a little gay
laugh. Lady Stoat laughed also.

1 wonder what you did do,' she reflected,
however, as she laughed. ' Oh, naughty little
pussy — foolish, foolish little pussy! — to have
any secrets from me ! '

The day wore away and Yere Herbert
remained unseen in Felicite.

The guests grew surprised, and the host
angered.

Princesse Nelaguine herself had ascended
to the girl's room, and had been denied.

People began to murmur that it was odd.

Go and fetch her,' said Zouroff in a
fierce whisper. 'It is time that I at least
should see her — unless you have told mea
lie.'

Unless she be really ill, I suppose you
mean, you cruel creature ! ' said her mother
reproachingly ; but she obeyed him and went.

Girls are so fond of tragedy ! ' reflected
Lady Stoat, recalling episodes in the betrothal
of her own daughter, and passages that had
preceded it.

It was now five o'clock. The day had been
chilly, as it is at times along the channel
shores, even in summer. Several persons were
in the blue-room, so called because of its
turquoise silk walls and its quantities of Delf,
Nankin, Savona, and other blue china ranged
there. It was the room for afternoon tea.
Several of the ladies were there in tea-gowns
of the quaintest and prettiest, that allowed
them to lie about in the most gracefully tired
attitudes. The strong summer sun found its
way only dimly there, and the sweet smells of
the flowers and of the sea were overborne by

the scent of the pastilles burning in the bodies
of blue china monsters.

Zouroff, who at times was very negligent
of his guests, was pacing up and down the
long dim chamber impatiently, and every now
and then he glanced at the door. He did not
look once at the pretty groups, like eighteenth
century pictures tinged with the languor of
odalisques, that were sipping tea out of tiny
cups in an alcove lined with celadon and
crackling. The tinkle of the tea-cups and the
ripple of the talk ceased as the door at the
farther end opened, and Yere entered, led by
her mother.

She was white, and cold, and still ; she did
not raise her eyelids.

Zouroff approached with eager steps, and
bowed before her with the dignity that he could
very well assume when he chose.

Mademoiselle,' he said softly, ' is it true
that you consent to make the most unworthy
of men the most happy ? '

He saw a slight shudder pass over her as
if some cold wind had smitten her.

She did not lift her eyes.

Since you wish, monsieur ' she

answered very low, and then paused.

The adoration of a life shall repay you,'
he murmured in the conventional phrase, and
kissed her hand.

In his own thoughts he said : * Your mother
has made you do this, and you hate me. Never
mind.'

Then he drew her hand on his arm, and led
her to the Princess j^elaguine.

My sister, embrace your sister. I shall
have two angels henceforth instead of one, to
watch and pray for my erring soul ! '

Princess Nelaguine did not smile. She
kissed the cold cheek of the sfirl with a glisten
of tears in her eyes.

What a sacrifice ! what a martyrdom ! '
she thought. 'Ah, the poor child! — but perhaps
he will ranger — let us hope.'

All the while Vera might have been made
of marble, she was so calm and so irresponsive,
and she never once lifted her eyes.

Will you not look at me once ? ' he entreated.

She raised her lids and gave him one
fleeting hunted glance. Cruel though he was
and hardened, Sergius Zouroff felt that look goto
his soul.

Bah ! how she loathes me ! ' he said in
his teeth. But the compassion in him died
out almost as it was born, and the base appetites
in him were only whetted and made
keener by this knowledge.

Lady Stoat glided towards them and lifted
her lips to Yera's cheek.

*My sweet child! so charmed, so delighted
she whispered. ' Did I not say how it would
be when your first shyness had time to fold its
tents, as the poem says, and steal away ? '

You are always a prophetess of good — and
my mother's friend,' said Yere. They were
almost the first words she had spoken, and
they chilled even the worldly breast of her
mother's friend.

There was an accent in them which told of
a childhood perished in a night; of an innocence
and a faith stabbed, and stricken, and buried
for ever more.

You are only sixteen, and you will never
be young any more ! ' thought Princess Nela-
guide, hearing the cold and bitter accent of
those pregnant words.

But the ladies that made the eighteenth
century picture had broken up and issued from
the alcove, and were offering congratulations
and compliments in honeyed phrases ; and no
one heeded or had time for serious thought.

Only Lady Dolly, in a passionate murmur,
cried, unheeded by any, to her daughter's ear :

Tor heaven's sake smile, blush, seem
happy ! What will they say of you to look at
you like this ? — they will say that I coerce you ! '

I do my best,' answered Vere coldly.

My lovely mother-in-law,' muttered Prince
Zouroff, bending to Lady Dolly, as he brought
her a cup of tea, ^ certainly you did not lie
to me this morning when you told me that
your Vera would marry me ; but did you not
lie — just a little lie, a little white one — when
you said she would love me ? '

'Love comes in time,' murmured Lady
Dolly hurriedly.

Serge Zouroff laughed grimly.

Does it ? I fear that experience tells one
rather that with time — it goes.'

'Yours may ; hers will come — the woman's
always comes last.'

Ma chere ! your new theories are astounding.
Nevertheless, as your son-in-law, I will
give in my adhesion to them. Henceforth all
the sex of your Vera — and yourself — is purity
and perfection in my sight ! '

Lady Dolly smiled sweetly in his face.

It is never too late to be converted to the
truth,' she said playfully, whilst she thought,
Oh you beast ! If I could strangle you ! '

Meanwhile Princess Nelaguine was saying
with kindness in her tone and gaze :

My sweet child you look chilly and pale.
Were you wise to leave your room out of goodness
to us ? '

I am cold,' murmured Vere faintly. ' I
should be glad if I might go away — for a little.'

'Impossible,' said the Princess; and added.
Dear, reflect ; it will look so strange to
people. My brother '

I will stay then,' said Vere wearily, and
she sat down and received the homage of one
and the felicitations of another, still with her
eyes always cast downward, still with her
young face passionless, and chill as a mask of
marble.

*An hour's martyrdom more or less — did
it matter ? ' she said to herself. All her life
would be a martyrdom, a long mute martyrdom,
now.

A few hours later her maid dressed her
for the ball. She had no need of her mother's
pearls, for those which had been ordered from
Paris jewellers were there ; the largest and
purest pearls that ever Indian diver plunged
for into the deep sea. When they were
clasped about her they seemed to her in noway
different, save in their beauty, to the
chains locked on slave-girls bought for the
harem. But that was because she had beer
taught such strange ideas.

She was quite passive.

She resisted nothing ; having given away
in the one great thing, why should she dis-vol.

I. X

pute or rebel for trifles ? A sense of unreality
had come upon her, as it comes on people in
the first approach of fever.

She walked, sat, spoke, heard, all as in a
dream. It seemed to her as if she were already
dead : only the pain was alive in her, the
horrible sickening pain that would never be
stilled, but only grow sharper and deeper
with each succeeding hour.

She sat through the banquet, and felt all
eyes upon her, and was indifferent. Let them
stare as they would, as they would stare at
the sold slave-girl.

She has too much self-possession for such a
child, said the women there, and they thought
that Sergius Zouroff would not find in her the
young saint that he fancied he had won.

Her beauty was only greater for her extreme
pallor and the darkness beneath her
eyes. But it was no longer the beauty of an
innocent unconscious child; it was that of a
woman.

Now and then she glanced at her mother,
at that pretty coquettish little figure, semi-nude,

as fashion allowed, and with diamonds
sparkling everywhere on her snow-white skin ;
with a perpetual laugh on cherubic lips, and
gaiety and grace in each movement. And
whenever she glanced there, a sombre scornful
fire came into her own gaze, an unutterable
contempt and disgust watched wearily from
the fair windows of her soul.

She was thinking to herself as she looked :
Honour thy father and thy mother. That
was the old law ! Were there such women
then as she was now? Or was that law too
a dead letter, as the Marriage Sacrament was ?

She is exquisitely lovely,' said the great
personage in whose honour the banquet and the
ball were being given. ' In a year or two there
will be nothing so beautiful as she will be in
all Europe. But — is she well — is she happy ?
Forgive the question.'

Oh, sir, she is but made nervous by the
honour of your praise,' said her mother, who
was the person addressed. ' Your Royal Highness
is too kind to think of her health, it is perfect
; indeed I may say, without exaggeration.

that neither morally nor physically has my
sweet child given me one hour's anxiety since
her birth.'

The Prince bowed, and said some pleasant
gracious words ; but his conviction remained
unchanged by Lady Dolly's assurance of her
daughter's peace and joy.

Yere was led out by Prince Zouroff to join
the Quadrille honneur.

This is the Iron Cross ! ' she thought, and
a faint bitter smile parted her lips.

She never once lifted her eyes to meet his.

Cannot you tell me you are happy, mon
enfant,' he murmured once. She did not look
at him, and her lips scarcely moved as she
answered him.

I obey my mother, monsieur. Do not ask
more.'

Zouroff was silent. The dusky red of his
face grew paler ; he felt a momentary instinct
to tear his pearls off her, and bid her be free ;
then the personal loveliness of her awoke too
fiercely that mere appetite which is all that
most men and many women know of love;

and his hands clenched close on hers in the
slow figure of the dance.

A stronger admiration than he had ever felt
for her rose in him, too. He knew the bitterness
and the revolt that were in her, yet he saw her
serene, cold, mistress of herself. It was not
the childlike simplicity that he had once fancied
that he loved her for, but it was a courage
he respected, a quality he understood. 'One
might send her to Siberia and she would
change to ice ; she would not bend,' he
thought ; and the thought whetted his passion
to new fierceness and tenacity.

The ball was gorgeous ; the surprises were
brilliant and novel; the gardens were illumined
to the edge of the sea till the fishers out in the
starry night thought the shore was all on fire.
The great persons in whose honour it was,
were gratified and amused — the grace and
grandeur of the scene were like old days of
Versailles or of Venice.

The child moved amidst it, with the great
pearls lying on her throat and encircling her
arms, and her eyes had a blind unconscious

look in them like those of eyes that have
recently lost their sight, and are not yet used
to the eternal darkness.

Bat she spoke simply and well, if seldom ;
she moved with correct grace in the square
dance ; she made her perfect courtesy with
the eighteenth century stateliness in it; all
men looked, and wondered, and praised her, and
women said with a sigh of envy, 'Only sixteen! '

Only sixteen ; and she might have said as
the young emperor ^ said, when he took his
crown, ' my youth, my youth ! farewell ! '

Once her mother had the imprudence to
speak to her ; she whispered in her ear :

Are you not rewarded love ? Are you not
content ? '

Yere looked at her.

I have paid your debt. Be satisfied.'

A great terror passed like a cold wind, over
the little selfish, cruel, foolish woman, and she
trembled.

The next morning a message came to her
from her old Northumbrian home.
Franz Josef.

My house must always be open for my dead
son's child, and my protection, such as it is,
will always be hers.'

It was signed Sarah Mull and Cantire.

Vere read it, sitting before her glass in the
light of the full day, whilst her woman undid
the long ropes of pearls that were twisted
about her fair hair. Two slow tears ran down
her cheeks and fell on the rough paper of the
telegram.

She loves me ! ' she thought, ' and what a
foolish, fickle, sinning creature I shall for ever
seem to her ! '

Then, lest with a moment's longer thought
her firmness should fail her, she wrote back in
answer : ' You are so good, and 1 am grateful.
But I see that it is best that I should marry as
my mother wished. Pray for me.'

The message winged its way sweeter thana
bird, over the grey sea to where the northern
ocean beat the black Northumbrian rocks ;
and an old woman's heart was broken with the
last pang of a sad old age.

A day or two later the house-party of

Felicite broke up, and the chateau by the
Norman sea was left to its usual solitude. Lady
Stoat went to stay with her daughter, the Lady
Birkenhead, who was at Biarritz, and would go
thence to half-a-dozen great French and English
houses. Prince Zouroff and his sister went to
Tsarsko Self, as it was necessary for him to see
his emperor, and Lady Dolly took her daughter
straight to Paris.

Paris in the commencement of autumn was
a desert, but she had a pretty apartment in the
Avenue Josephine. The marriage was fixed to
take place in November, and two months was
not too much for all the preparations which she
needed to make. Besides, Lady Dolly preferred
that her daughter should see as few persons as
possible. What was she afraid of? — she
scarcely knew. She was vaguely afraid of
everything. She was so used to breaking her
words that a child's promise seemed to her a
thing as slight as a spider's gossamer shining
in the dew.

It was safest, she fancied, for Vere to see
no one, and to a member of the great world

there is no solitude so complete as a city out of
its season. So she shut Vere in her gilded, and
silvered, and over-decorated, and over-filled,
rooms in the Avenue Josephine, and kept her
there stifled and weary, like a woodland bird
hung in a cage in a boudoir; and never let the
girl take a breath of air save by her side in her
victoria out in the Bois in the still, close evenings.
Yere made no opposition to anything.
When St. Agnes gave her young body and her
fair soul up to torment, did she think of the
shape of the executioner's sword ?

Lady Dolly was at this time much worried
too about her own immediate affairs. Jura was
gone to India on a hunting and shooting tour
with two officers of his old regiment, and he
had written very briefly to say so to her, not
mentioning any period for his return. He
meant to break it all off, thought Lady Dolly,
with an irritated humiliation rankling in her.
Two years before she would have been Decline
infuriate; but time tempers everything, and
there were always consolations. The young
dandy who had won the Grand Prix was devoted

and amusing ; it could not be said that Jura
had been either of late. She had got used to
him, and she had not felt it necessary to be
always en haute for him, which was convenient.
Besides, there were heaps of things he had got
into the way of doing for her, and he knew all
her habits and tastes ; losing him was like
losing a careful and familiar servant. Still
she was not inconsolable. He had grown
boorish and stupid in the last few months ;
and, though he knew thousands of her
secrets, he was a gentleman — they were safe
with him, as safe as the letters she had
written him.

But her vanity was wounded.

'Just because of that child's great grey
eyes ! — ' she thought angrily.

Classic Clytemnestra, when murdered by
her son, makes a grander figure certainly, but
she is not perhaps more deeply wounded than
fashionable Austin, when eclipsed by her
daughter.

You look quite worn, poor pussy ! ' said
Lady Stoat tenderly, as she met her one day in

Paris. ' When you onglit to be so pleased and
so proud ! '

Lady Stoat, who was very ingenious and
very penetrating, left no means untried by
which to fathom the reasons of the sudden
change of Yere. Lady Stoat read characters
too well not to know that neither caprice nor
malleability were the cause of it.

She has been coerced ; but how ? ' she
thought ; and brought her microscope of delicate
investigation and shrewd observation to
bear upon the subject. But she could make
nothing of it.

I do what my mother wishes,' Yere
answered her, and answered her nothing more.

If you keep your secrets as well when you
are married,' thought Lady Stoat, ' you will be
no little trouble to your husband, my dear.'

Aloud, of course she said only :

So right, darling, so very right. Your dear
little mother has had a great deal of worry in
her life ; it is only just that she should find full
compensation in you. And I am quite sure you
will be happy, Yere. You are so clever and

serious ; you will have a salon, I dare say, and get
all the politicians about you. That will suit you
better than frivolity, and give you an aim in
society. Without an aim, love, society is sadly
like playing cards for counters. One wants a
lover to meet, a daughter to chaperone, a cause
to advance, a something beside the mere
pleasure of showing oneself. You will never
have the lover I am sure, and you cannot have
the daughter just yet ; so, if I were you, I
would take the cause — it does not matter what
cause in the least — say England against Eussia
or Eussia against England ; but throw yourself
into it, and it will amuse you, and it will be a
safeguard to you from the dangers that beset
every beautiful young wife in the world. It is
a melancholy thing to confess, and a humiliating
one, but all human beings are so made
that they never can go on playing only for
counters ! '

And Lady Stoat, smiling her sweetest, went
away from Yere with more respect than she
had ever felt before for feather-headed little
pussy, since pussy had been able to do a

clever thing unaided, and had a secret that
her friend did not know.

Foolish pussy ! ' thought her friend Adine.
Oh, foolish pussy, to have a secret from me.
And it takes such a wise head and such a long
eat to have a secret ! It is as dangerous as a
packet of dynamite to most persons.'
Aloud to Lady Dolly she said only :
So glad, dear love, oh, so glad ! I was quite
sure with a little reflection the dear child would
see the wisdom of the step we wished her to take.
It is such an anxiety off your mind ; a girl with
you in the season would have harassed you
terribly. Really I do not know which is the
more wearing : an heiress that one is afraid
every moment will be got at by some spendthrift,
or a dear little penniless creature that
one is afraid will never marry at all ; and, with
Vere's peculiar manners and notions, it might
have been very difficult. Happily, Zouroff has
only admired her lovely classic head, and has
never troubled himself about what is inside
it. I think she will be an astonishment to
him — rather. But, to be sure, after six

months in the world, she will change as they
all do.'

Vere will never change said Lady Dolly
irritably, and with a confused guilty little
glance at her friend. ' Yere will be always
half an angel and half an imbecile as long as
ever she lives.'

'Imbeciles are popular people,' said Lady
Stoat with a smile. ' As for angels, no one
cares for them much about modern houses,
except in terra cotta.'

It is not you who should say so,' returned
Lady Dolly tenderly.

Oh, my dear ! ' answered her friend with a
modest sigh of depreciation. 'I have no pretensions
— I am only a. poor, weak, and very
imperfect creature. But one thing I may really
say of myself, and that is, that I honestly
love young girls and do my best for them ;
and I think not a few have owed their life's
happiness to me. JVI.ay your Yere be of the
number ! '

I don't think she will ever be happy,' said
Lady Dolly impatiently, with a little confused

look of guilt. ' She doesn't care a bit about
dress.'

'That is a terrible machine certainly assented
Lady Stoat with a smile. ' Perhaps,
instead, she will take to politics — those serious
girls often do — or perhaps she will care about
her children.'

Lady Dolly gave a little shudder. What
was her daughter but a child ? It seemed only
the other day that the little fair baby had
tumbled about among the daisies on the vicarage
lawn, and poor dead Vere in his mellow
gentle voice had recited, as he looked at her,
the glorious lines to his child of Coleridge.
How wretched she had been then ! — how impatient
of the straitened means, the narrow
purse, the country home, the calm religious life !
How wretched she would have been now could
she have gone back to it ! Yet, with the
contradiction of her sex and character. Lady
Dolly for a moment wished with all her soul
that she had never left that narrow home, and
that the child were now among the daisies.

One day, when they were driving down

the Avenue Marigny, her mother pointed out to
Yere a row of lofty windows au premier, with
their shutters shut, but with gorgeous autumn
flowers hanging over their gilded balconies ;
the liveried Suisse was yawning in the doorway.


That is where your Faust-Romeo lives,'
said Lady Dolly, who could never bring herself
to remember the proverb, let sleeping dogs
lie. ' It is full of all kinds of beautiful things,
and queer ancient things too ; he is a connoisseur
in his way, and everybody gives him such
wonderful presents. He is making terrible
scandal just now with the young Grand-duchess.
Only to think of what you risked
that day boating with him makes one shudder!
You might have been compromised for life ! '

Yere's proud mouth grew very scornful, but
she made no reply.

Her mother looked at her and saw the
scorn.

Oh, you don't believe me ? ' she said irritably
; ' ask anybody! an hour or two alone with
a man like that ruins a girl's name for ever.

Of course it was morning, and open air, but
still Correze is one of those persons a woman
can be seen with, even ! '

Vere turned lier head and looked back at
the bright balconies with their hanging flowers;
then she said with her teeth shut and her lips
turning white :

I do not speak to you of Prince Zouroff's
character. Will you be so good as not to
speak to me of that of M. de Correze.'

Her mother was startled and subdued.
She wished she had not woke the sleeping-dog.


If she be like that at sixteen what will
she be at six-and-twenty ? ' she thought. ' She
puts them in opposition already ! '

Nevertheless, she never again felt safe, and
whenever she drove along the Avenue Marigny
she looked up at the house with the gilded
balconies and hanging flowers to make sure
that it gave no sign of life.

It did not occur to her that whatever Vere
might be at six-and-twenty would be the result
of her own teaching, actions, and example.
VOL. I. Y

Lady Dolly had reasoned with herself that she
had done right after all; she had secured a
magnificent position for her daughter, was it
not the first duty of a mother ?

If Vere could not be content with that
position, and all its compensations, if she
offended heaven and the world by any obstinate
passions or imprudent guilt, if she, in a
word, with virtue made so easy and so gilded,
should not after all be virtuous, it would bethe
fault of B aimer, the fault of society, the
fault of Zouroff, the fault of Correze, or of some
other man, perhaps, — never the fault of her
mother.

When gardeners plant and graft, they know
very well what will be the issue of their work ;
they do not expect the rose from a bulb of
garlic, or look for the fragrant olive from a
slip of briar; but the cultures of human
nature are less wise, and they sow poison, yet
rave in reproaches when it breeds and brings
forth its like. ' The rosebud garden of girls ' is
a favourite theme for poets, and the maiden, in
her likeness to a half-opened blossom, is as

near purity and sweetness as a human creature
can be, yet what does the world do with its
opening buds P — it thrusts them in the forcing
house amidst the ordure, and then, if they
perish prematurely, never blames itself. The
streets absorb the girls of the poor ; society
absorbs the daughters of the rich; and not
seldom one form of prostitution, like the other,
keeps its captives 'bound in the dungeon of
their own corruption,' *•*

y 2

It was snowing in Vienna. Snow lay heavy
on all the plains and roads around, and the
Danube was freezing fast.

^ It will be barely colder in Moscow,' said
Correze, with a shiver, as he threw his furs
about him and left the opera-house amidst the
frantic cheers and adoring outcries of the crowd
without, after his last appearance in Romeo e
GiuUetta. In the bitter glittering frosty night
a rain of hothouse flowers fell about him ; he
hated to see them fall; but his worshippers
did not know that, and would not have heeded
it if they had. Roses and violets, hyacinth
and white lilac, dropped at his feet, lined his

path and carpeted his carriage as if it were
April in the south, instead of November in
Austria.

His hand had just been pressed by an emperor's,
a ring of brilliant beyond price had
just been slid on his finger by an empress ; the
haughtiest aristocracy of the world had caressed
him and flattered him and courted him ; he was
at the supreme height of fame, and influence,
and fashion, and genius ; yet, as he felt the
roses and the lilies fall about him he said restlessly
to himself :

When I am old and nobody heeds me, I
shall look back to this night, and such nights
as this, as to a lost heaven ; why, in heaven's
name, cannot I enjoy it now ? '

But enjoyment is not to be gained by
reflecting that to enjoy is our duty, and neither
the diamonds nor the roses did he care for, nor
did he care for the cheers of the multitude that
stood out under the chill brilliant skies for the
chance of seeing him pass down the streets. It
is a rare and splendid royalty, too, that of a
great singer ; but he did not care for its crowns.

The roses made him think of a little hedge-rose
gathered by a sweet-briar bush on a cliff by a
grey quiet sea.

With such odd caprices does Fate often
smite genius.

He drove to the supper-table of a very great
lady, beautiful as the morning; and he was the
idol of the festivity which was in his honour ;
and the sweet eyes of its mistress told him that
no audacity on his part would be deemed presumption
— yet it all left him careless and
almost cold. She had learned Juliet's part by
heart, but he had forgotten Romeo's — had left
it behind him in the opera-house with his old
Venetian velvets and lace.

From that great lady's, whom he left alone
with a chill heart, empty and aching, he
went with his comrades to the ball of the
Elysium down in the subterranean vaults of
the city, where again and again in many
winters he had found contagion in the elastic
mirth and the buoyant spirit of the clean-limbed,
bright-eyed children of the populace,
dancing and whirling and leaping far down

under the streets to the Styrian music. But it
did not amuse him this night; nor did the
dancers tempt him ; the whirl and the glow
and the noise and the mirth seemed to him
tedious and stupid.

Decidedly that opera tires me,' he said to
himself, and thought that his weariness came
from slaying Tybalt and himself on the boards
of the great theatre. He told his friends and
adorers with petulance to let him be still, he
wanted to sleep, and the dawn was very cold.
He went home to his gorgeous rooms in a
gorgeous hotel, and lit his cigar and felt tired.
The chambers were strewn with bouquets,
wreaths, presents, notes ; and amidst the litter
was a great gold vase, a fresh gift from the
emperor, with its two relieve, telling the two
stories of Orpheus and of Amphion.

But Correze did not look twice at it. He
looked instead at a French journal, which he
had thrown on his chair when his servant had
roused him at seven that evening, saying that
it was the hour to drive to the theatre. He
had crushed the paper in his hand then and

thrown it down ; he took it np now, and looked
again in a corner of it in which there was announced
the approaching marriage of Prince
Zouroff.

To give her to that brute ! ' he murmured
as he read it over once more. ' Mothers were
better and kinder in the days of Moloch ! '

Then he crushed the journal up again, and
flung it into the wood-fire burning in the gilded
tower of the stove.

It was not slaying Tybalt that had tired him
that night.

What is the child to me ? ' he said to himself
as he threw himself on his bed. ^ She
never could have been anything, and yet '

Yet the scent of the hothouse bouquets and
the forced flowers seemed sickly to him ; he
remembered the smell of the little rose plucked
from the sweetbread hedge on the cliff above
the sea.

The following noon he left Vienna for
Moscow, where he had an engagement for
twenty nights previous to his engagement at

St. Petersburg: for the first weeks of the Russian
New Year.

From Moscow he wrote to Lady Dolly.
When that letter reached Lady Dolly it
made her cry; it gave her a cn'se des nerfs.
When she read what he wrote she turned pale
and shuddered a little ; but she burnt what he
wrote ; that was all.

She shivered a little whenever she thought
of the letter for days and weeks afterwards ;
but it changed her purpose in no way, and
she never for one moment thought of acting
upon it.

I shall not answer him,' she said to herself.
He will think I have never had it, and I shall
send him a faire part like anybody else. He
will say nothing when the marriage is over.
Absurd as it is, Correze is a gentleman ; I
suppose that comes from his living so much
amongst us.'

Amongst the many gifts that were sent to
swell the magnificence of the Zouroff bridal,
there was one that came anonymously, and of

which none knew the donor. It gave rise to
many conjectures and much comment, for there
was not even the name of the jeweller that had
made it. It was an opal necklace of exquisite
workmanship and great value, and, as its
medallion, there hung a single rose diamond
cut as a star ; beneath the star was a moth
of sapphire and pearls, and beneath the moth
was a flame of rubies. They were so hung
that the moth now touched the star, now sank
to the flame. It needed no words with it for
Vere to know whence it came.

But she kept silence.

A strange jewel,' said Prince Zouroff, and
his face grew dark: he thought some meaning
or some memory came with it.

It was the only gift amidst them all that
felt the kisses and tears of Vere.

I must sink to the flame ! ' she thought,
and he will never know that the fault is not
mine; he will never know that I have not
forgotten the star ! '

But she only wept in secret.

All her life henceforth was to be one of

silence and repression. They are the sponte
vive in which society immures its martyrs.

Some grow to like their prison walls, and
to prefer them to light and freedom : others
loathe them in anguish till death come.

The gift of that strange medallion annoyed
Zouroff, because it perplexed him. He never
spoke to Vere concerning it, for he believed
that no woman ever told the truth ; but he
tried to discover the donor by means of his
many servants and agents. He failed, not
because Correze had taken any especial means
to ensure secresy, but from simple accident.

Correze had bought the stones himself of
a Persian merchant many years before, had
drawn the design himself, and had given it to
a young worker in gems of Alicia whom he
had once befriended at the fair of Novgorod ;
and the work was only complete in all its
beauty and sent to him when the Galician
died of that terrible form of typhus which is
like a plague in Russia. Therefore Zouroff 's
inquiries in Paris were all futile, and he
gradually ceased to think about the jewel.

Another thing came to her at that time
that hurt her, as the knife hurt Iphigenia. It
was when the crabbed clear handwriting she
knew so well brought her from Bulmer Chase
a bitter letter.

You are your mother's child, I see wrote
the harsh old woman, who had yet loved her
so tenderly. ' You are foolish, and fickle, and
vain, and won over to the world, like her.
You have nothing of my dead boy in you, or
you would not sell yourself to the first rich
man that asks. Do not write to me ; do not
expect to hear from me ; you are for me as if
you had never lived, and if, in your miserable
marriage, you ever come to lose name and
fame — as you may do, for loveless marriages
are an affront to heaven, and mostly end in
further sin— remember that you ask nothing at
my hands. At your cry I was ready to open
my hand to you and my heart, but I will never
do so now, let you want it as you may. I pity
you, and I despise you; for when you give
yourself to a man whom you cannot honour or
love, you are no better than the shameless

women that a few weeks ago I would no more
have named to you than I would have struck
you a buffet on your cheek.'

Vere read the letter with the hot brazen
glow of the Paris sun streaming through the
rose silk of the blinds upon her, and each withstood
out before her as if it were on fire, and
her cheek grew scarlet as if a blow where
struck on it.

She is right ! Oh, how right ! ' she
thought, in a sort of agony. ' And I cannot
tell her the truth ! I must never tell her the
truth ! '

Sin and shame, and all the horror of base
passions had been things as unintelligible to
her, as unknown, as the vile, miserable, frail
women that a few roods off her in this city
were raving and yelling in the wards of Este.
Pelagic. And now, all in a moment, they
seemed to have entered her life, to swarm
about her, to become part and parcel of her —
and from no fault of hers.

O mother, spare me ! Let me take back
my word ! ' she cried, unconsciously, as she

started to her feet with a stab of awful pain
in her heart that frightened her; it felt like
death.

But in the rose-bright room all around her
was silence.

Her grandmother's letter lay at her feet,
and a ray of the sun shone on the words that
compared her to the hapless creatures whose
very shame she even yet did not comprehend.

The door unclosed and Lady Dolly came
in; very voluble, indifferent to suffering or
humiliation, not believing, indeed, that she
ever caused either.

Living with her daughter, and finding that
no reproach or recrimination escaped Vere
against her. Lady Dolly had begun to grow
herself again. She was at times very nervous
with Vere, and never, if she could help it, met
her eyes, but she was successful, she was contented,
she was triumphant, and the sense of
shame that haunted her was thrust far into the
background. All the vulgar triumphs of the
alliance were sweet to her, and she did her
best to forget its heavy cost. Women of her

calibre soon forget ; the only effort they have
ever to make is, on the contrary, to remember.
Lady Dolly had earnestly tried to forget, and
had almost thoroughly succeeded.

She came now into the room, a pretty pearl
grey figure; fresh from lengthened and close
council with famous tailors.

Vera, my sweet Vera, your sables are
come ; such sables ! Nobody's except the
grand-duchesses' will equal them. And he has
sent bags of turquoises with them, literally
sacks, as if they were oats or green peas !
You will have all your toilette things set with
them, and your inkstands, and all that, won't
you? And they are very pretty, you know,
set flat, very thick, in broad bands ; very broad
bands for the waist and the throat ; but myself,

I prefer Who's been writing to you ?

Oh, the old woman from Bulmer. I suppose
she is very angry, and writes a great deal of
nonsense. She was always horrid. The only
thing she gave me when I married poor Vere
was a black Bible. I wonder what she will
send to you ? Another black Bible, perhaps. I

believe she gets Bibles cheap because she subscribes
to the men that go out to read Leviticus
and Deuteronomy to the negro babies ! '

Vere bent and raised the letter in silence.
The burning colour had gone from her cheeks ;
she tore the letter up into many small pieces
and let them float out into the golden dust of
the sunlight of Paris. Her word had been
given, and she was its slave.

She looked at her mother, whom she had
never called mother since that last nisfht at
the chateau of Abba3'e aux Bois.

Will you, if you please, spare me all those
details ? ' she said, simply. ' Arran ge everything
as you like best, it will satisfy fine. But
let me hear nothing about it. That is all.'

You strange, dear creature ! Any other

girl ,' began Lady Doll 3^, with a smile that

was distorted, and eyes that looked away.

■ ' I am not as other girls are. I hope there
is no other girl in all the world like me.'

Her mother made no answer.

Through the stillness of the chambers there
came the sounds of Paris, the vague, confused,

loud murmur of traffic and music, and pleasure
and pain ; the sounds of the world, the world
to which Yere was sold.

The words of the old recluse of Bulmer
were very severe, but they were very true, and
it was because of their truth that they seared
the delicate nerves of the girl like a hot iron.
She did not well know what shame was, but
she felt that her own marriage was shame;
and as she rolled home from the Bois de
Boulogne that night through the bright streets
of Paris, past the Hotel Zouroff that was to
be her prison-house, she looked at the girls
of the populace who were hurrying homeward
from their workshops— flower-makers,
glove-makers, clear searchers, teachers of children,
workers in factories — and she envied
them, and followed them in fancy to their
humble homes, and thought to herself : ' How
happy I would be to work, if only I had a
mother that loved me, a mother that was
honest and good ! '

The very touch of her mother's hand, the
very sound of her laugh, and sight of her

VOL. I. z

smile, hurt lier ; lie had known nothing about
the follies and vices of the world, until suddenly,
in one moment, she had seen them all incarnated
in her mother, whose pretty graces
and gaieties became terrible to her for ever, as
the pink and white loveliness of a woman
becomes to the eyes that have seen in its veiled
breast a cancer.

Yere had seen the moral cancer. And she
could not forget it, never could she forget it.

'When she was once beloved by my

father ! ' she thought ; and she let her

Bible lie unopened, lest, turning its leaves, she
should see the old divine imprecations, the old
bitter laws that were in it against such women
as this woman, her mother, was.

One day in November her betrothed husband
arrived from Russia, The magnificence of his
gifts to her was the theme of Paris. The girl
was passive and silent always.

When he kissed her hands only she trembled
from head to foot.

Are sou afraid of me ? ' he murmured.

No ; I am not afraid.'

She could not tell him that she felt disgust
disgust so great, so terrible, that she could
have sprung from the balcony and dashed
herself to death upon the stones.

Cannot you say that you like me ever so
little nov ? ' he persisted, thinking that all his
generosity might have borne some fruit.
^ No — I cannot.'

He laughed grimly and bitterly.
And yet I dare take you, even as you are,
you beautiful cold child ! '

I cannot tell you a falsehood.'
Will you never tell me one ? '
No ; never.'

I do not believe you ; every woman lies.'
Yere did not answer in words, but her eyes
shone for a moment with a scorn so noble that
Sergius Zouroff bent his head before her.

I beg your pardon,' he said ; ' I think you
will not lie. But then, you are not a maiden
only ; you are a young saint.'

Vere stood aloof from him. The sunshine
shone on her fair head and the long, straight
folds of her white dress ; her hands were
unclasped

in front of her, and the sadness in her
face gave it greater gravity and beauty.

I am a beast to hold her to her word ! ' he
thought; but the beast in him was stronger
than aught else and conquered him, and made
him ruthless to her.

She was looking away from him into the
blue sky. She was thinking of the words,
keep yourself unspotted from the world.' She
was thinking that she would be always true to
this man whom lie loathed ; always true ;
that was his right.

And perhaps God will let me die soon,'
she thought, with her childish fancy that God
was near and Death an angel.

Serge ZourofiP looked at her, hesitated,
bowed low, and left the room.

I am not fit for her ; no fitter than the
sewer of the street for a pearl ! ' he thought,
and he felt ashamed.

Yet he went to his usual companions and
spent the night in drink and play, and saw the
sun rise with hot red eyes ; he could not change
because she was a saint.

Only a generation or two back his forefathers
had bought beautiful Persian women
by heaping up the scales of barter with strings
of pearls and sequins, and had borne ofiP Circassian
slaves in forays with simple payment
of a lance left in the lifeless breasts of the men
who had owned them : his wooing was of the
same rude sort. Only being a man of the
world, and his ravishing being legalised by
society, he went to the great shops of Paris for
his gems, and employed great notaries to write
down the terms of barter.

The shrinking coldness, the undisguised
aversion of his betrothed only whetted his
passion to quicker ardour, as the shrieks of the
Circassian captives, or the quivering limbs of
the Persian slaves, had done that of his forefathers
in Ukraine ; and besides, after all, he
thought, she had chosen to give herself, hating
him, for sake of what he was and of all he
could give. After all, her mother could not
have driven her so far unless ambition had
made her in a manner malleable.

Zouroff, in whose mind all women were

alike, had almost been brought to believe in
the honesty and steadfastness of the girl to
whom he had given Loris, and he was at times
disposed to be bitterly enraged against her
because she had fallen in his sight by her
abrupt submission; she seemed at heart no
better than the rest. She abhorred him ; yet
she accepted him. No mere obedience could account
for that acceptance without some weakness
or some cupidity of nature. It hardened him
against her; it spoilt her lovely, pure childhood
in his eyes; it made her shudder from him
seem half hypocrisy. After all, he said to
himself, where was she so very much higher
than Casse-une Route ? It was only the price
that was altered.

When she came to know what 
was, she said the same thing to herself.

Do you believe in wicked people, miladi P '
he said the next evening to Lady Dolly, as
they sat together in a box at the Bourges.
'Wicked people? Oh dear no— at least —
yes,' said Lady Dolly vaguely. ' Yes, I suppose
I do. I am afraid one must. One sees dreadful

things in the papers ; in society everybody is
very much like everybody else — no ? '

Zouroff laughed; the little, short, hard
laugh that was characteristic of him.

I think one need not go to the papers. I
think you and I are both doing evil enough to
satisfy the devil — if a devil there be. But, if
you do not mind it, I need not.'

Lady Dolly was startled, then smiled.

What droll things you say ! And do not

talk so of the . It doesn't sound well. It's

an old-fashioned belief, I know, and not
probable they say now, but still — one never
can tell '

And Lady Dolly, quite satisfied with herself,
laughed her last laugh at the fun of the Belle
Helm, and had her cloak folded round her, and
went out on the arm of her future son-in-law.

Such few great ladies as were already in
Paris, passing through from the channel coast
to the Riviera, or from one chateau to another,
all envied her, she knew; and if anybody had
ever said anything that was — that was not
quite nice — nobody could say anything now

when in another fortnight her daughter would
be Princess Zouroff.

Eeally, I never fancied at all I was clever,
but I begin to think that I am she said in
her self-complacency to herself.

The idea that she could be wicked seemed
quite preposterous to her when she thought it
over. ' Harmless little me ! ' she said to herself.
True, she had felt wicked when she had met
her daughter's eye, but that was nonsense;
the qualm had always gone away when she had
taken her champagne at dinner or her ether
in her bedroom.

A fortnight later the marriage of the
head of the house of Zouroff was solemnised at
the chapel of the English Embassy and the
Russian, church in Paris.

Nothing was forgotten that could add to
the splendour and pomp of the long ceremonies
and sacraments ; all that was greatest in the
great world was assembled in honour of the
event. The gifts were magnificent, and the
extravagance unbridled. The story of the
corneille read like a milliners dream of heaven ;

the jewels given by the bridegroom were estimated
at a money value of millions of roubles,
and with them were given the title-deeds of a
French estate called Felicite, a free gift of love
above and outside all the superb donations contained
in the settlements. All these things
and many more were set forth at length in all
the journals of society, and the marriage was
one of the great events of the closing year.
The only details that the papers did not
chronicle were that when the mother, with
her tender eyes moist with tears, kissed her
daughter, the daughter put her aside without
an answering caress, and that when the last
words of the sacrament were spoken, she, who
had now become the Princess ZourofP, fell forward
on the altar in a dead swoon, from which
for some time she could not be awakened.

So they have thrown an English maiden
to our Tartar minotaur ! Oh, what chaste
people they are, those English ! ' said a Eussian
Colonel of the Guard to Correze, as their
sledge flew over the snow on the Newski
Prospect.

Correze gave a shudder of disgust ; he said
nothing.

Critics in music at the opera-house that
night declared then, and long after, that for
the first time in all his career he was guilty
of more than one artistic error as he sang in
the great part of John of Leyden.

When the opera was over, and he sat at a
supper, in a room filled with hothouse flowers
and lovely ladies, while the breath froze on the
beards of the sentinels on guard in the white
still night without, Correze heard little of the
laughter, saw little of the beauty round him.
He was thinking all the while :

The heaviest sorrow of my life will always
be, not to have saved that child from her
mothers

Between the Gulf of Villafranca and that of Eza
there was a white shining sunlit house, with
gardens that were in the dreariest month of the
year rich and red with roses, golden with orange
fruit, and made stately by palms of long growth,
through whose stems the bine sea shone. To
these gardens there was a long terrace of white
marble stretching along the edge of the cliff,
with the waves beating far down below ; to the
terrace there were enable seats and marble
steps, and copies of the Loves and Fauns of the
Vatican and of the Capitol, with the glow of
geraniums flamelike about their feet.

Up and down the length of this stately

place a woman moved with a step that was
slow and weary, and yet very restless ; the step
of a thug that is chained. The woman was
very young, and very pale ; her skirts of olive
velvet swept the white stone ; her fair hair was
coiled loosely with a golden arrow run through
it; round her throat there were strings of
pearls, the jewels of morning. All women
envied her the riches of which those pearls
were emblem. She was Yera, Princess Zouroff.

Vera always, now.

She moved up and down, up and down,
fatiguing herself, and unconscious of fatigue ;
the sunny world was quiet about her; the
greyhound paced beside her, keeping step with
hers. She was alone, and there was no one to
look upon her face and see its pain, its weariness,
its disgust.

Only a week ago, she thought ; only a week
since she had fallen in a swoon at the altar of
the Russian church ; only a week since she had
been the girl Vere Herbert. Only a week ! —
and it seemed to her that thousands of years
had come and gone, parting her by ages from

that old sweet season of ignorance, of innocence,
of peace, of youth.

She was only sixteen still, but she was no
nitre young. Her girlhood had been killed in
her as a spring blossom is crushed by a rough
hot hand that, meaning to caress it, kills it.

A great disgust filled her, and seemed to
suffocate her with its loathing and its shame.
Everything else in her seemed dead, except
that one bitter sense of intolerable revulsion.
All the revolted pride in her was like a living
thing buried under a weight of sand, and speechless,
but aghast and burning.

How could she ? how could she ? ' she
thought every hour of the day ; and the crime
of her mother against her seemed the vilest the
earth could hold.

She herself had not known what she had
done when she had consented to give herself in
marriage, but her mother had known.

She did not reason now. She only felt.

An unutterable depression and repugnance
weighed on her always ; she felt ashamed of the
sun when it rose, of her own eyes when they

looked at her from the mirror. To herself she
seemed fallen so low, sunk to such deep degradation,
that the basest of creatures would have
had full right to strike her cheek, and spit in
her face, and call her sister.

Poets in all time have poured out their pity
on the woman who wakes to a loveless dishonour
: what can the few words of a priest, or
the envy of a world, do to lighten that shame
to sacrificed innocence ? — nothing.

Her life had changed as suddenly as a flower
changes when the hot sirocco blows over it, and
fills it with sand instead of dew. Nothing could
help her. Nothing could undo what had been
done. Nothing could make her ever more the
clear-eyed, fair-souled child that had not even
known the meaning of any shame.

'God himself could not help me ! ' she thought
with a bitterness of resignation that was more
hopeless than that of the martyrs of old ; and
she paced up and down the marble road of the
terrace, wondering how long her life would
last like this.

All the magnificence that surrounded her

was hateful ; all the gifts that were heaped on
her were like insult ; all the congratulations
that were poured out on her were like the
mockeries of apes, like the crackling of dead
leaves. In her own sight, and without sin of
her own, she had become vile.

And it was only a week ago !

Society would have laughed.

Society had set its seal of approval upon
this union, and upon all such unions, and so
deemed them sanctified. Year after year, one
on another, the pretty, rosy, golden-curled
daughters of fair mothers were carefully tended
and cultured and reared up to grace the proud
races from Which they sprang, and were brought
out into the great world in their first bloom
like half-opened roses, with no other end or
aim set before them as the one ambition of
their lives than to make such a marriage as
this. Whosoever achieved such was blessed.

Pollution ? Prostitution ? Society would
have closed its ears to such words, knowing
nothing of such things, not choosing to know
anything.

Shame ? What shame could there be when
he was her husband? Strange fanciful exaggeration
! — society would have stared and
smiled.

The grim old woman who studied her Bible
on the iron-bound Northumbrian shores ; the
frivolous, dreamy, fantastic singer, who had
played the part of Romeo till all life seemed to
him a rose-garden, moonlit and made for serenades
; these two might perhaps think with her,
and understand this intense revolt, this passionate
repugnance, this ceaseless sense of unendurable,
indelible reproach. But those were
all. Society would have given her no sympathy.
Society would have simpered and sneered. To
marry well ; that was the first duty of a
woman.

She had fulfilled it; she had been fortunate
; how could she fail to be content ?

A heavy step trod the marble terrace,
and a heavy shadow fell across the sunlight ;
her husband approached her.

You are out without any shade ; you will
spoil your skin,' he said, as his eyes fell

gloomily on her, for he noticed the shudder
that passed over her as he drew near.

She moved without speaking, where no sun
fell, where the armless Cupid of the Vatican,
copied in marble, stood amongst the rose of a
hundred leaves.

'How pale you are. That gown is too heavy
for you. Do you like this place ? '

She said the word with an unconscious
sound in it, that had the wonder of despair ;
despair which asked what was there left in all
the world to like or love ?

Do you like it, I say,' he repeated. * Most
women rave about it. You seem as if it were
a prison-house. Will you be always like that ? '

The place is beautiful,' she said in a low
tone. ' Have I complained ? '

No ; you never complain. That is what
annoys me. If you ever fretted like other
women — but you are as mute as that marble
armless thing. Sometimes you make me afraid
afraid — that I shall forget myself, and strike
you.'

VOL. I. A A

She was silent.

'Would that you did strike sooner than
embrace me ! ' she thought ; and he read the
unuttered thought in her eyes.

I do love you,' he said sullenly, with some
emotion. 'You must know that; I have left
no means untried to show it you.'

You have been very generous, monsieur ! '

Monsieur ! always monsieur ! — it is ridiculous.
I am your husband, and you must give
me some tenderer word than that. After all,
why cannot you be happy ? You have all you
want or wish for, and if you have a wish still
unfulfilled, be it the maddest or most impossible,
it shall be gratified if gold can do it, for I love
you — you frozen child ! '

He bent his lips to hers ; she shuddered,
and was still.

He kept his hand about her throat, and
gathered one of the roses of a hundred leaves,
and set it against the pearls and her white
skin; then he flung it away into the sea
roughly.

Roses do not become you ; you are not a

telle jardiniere ; you are a statue. This
place is dull, one tires of it ; we will go to
Eussia.'

As you please.'

As I please ! Will you say nothing else
all your life ? There is no pleasure in doing
what one pleases unless there is some opposition
to the doing it. If you would say you hated
snow and ice, now, I would swear to you that
snow and ice were paradise beside these sickly
palms and tawdry flowers. Is there nothing
you like ? Who sent you that strange necklace
of the moth?'

I do not know.'

But you imagine ? '
She was silent.

What is the meaning of it ? '

I think the meaning is that one may rise
to great ends, or sink to base ones.'

Has it no love-token, then ; no message ? '

No.'

The red colour rose over her pale face, but
she looked at him with unflinching gaze. He
was but half satisfied.

A A 2

And do you mean to rise or sink ? ' he
said, in a tone of banter. ' Pray tell me.'

^ I have sunk.'

The words stung him, and his pride, which
was arrogant and vain, smarted under them.

By God ! ' he said with his short hard
laugh. ' Did it never occur to you, my beautiful
Vera, that you would do wiser not to insult
me if you want to enjoy your life ? I am your
master, and I can be a bad master.'

She looked at him without flinching, very
coldly, very wearily.

Why will you ask me questions ? The
truth displeases you, and I will not tell you
other than the truth. I meant no insult —
unless it were to insult myself.'

He was silent. He walked to and fro
awhile, pulling the roses from their stems and
flinging them into the gulf below. Then he
spoke abruptly, changing the subject.

'We will go to Eussia. You shall see a
ball in the Salle des Palmer s. The world is
best. Solitude is sweet for lovers, but not
when one of them is a statue — or an angel.

Besides, that sort of thing never lasts a week.
The world is best. You would make me
hate you — or adore you — if we stayed on
alone, and I wish to do neither. If you were
not my wife it might be worth while ; but as
it is '

He threw another rose into the sea, as if
in a metaphor of indifference.

'Come to breakfast,' he said carelessly.
We will leave for Eussia to-night.'

As they passed down the terrace and entered
the house, she moved wearily beside him with
her face averted and her lips very pale.

The Salle des Panniers had no charm for
her. She was thinking of the nightingale that
was then singing in the Eussian snows.

If she saw Correze what could she say ?
The truth she could not tell him, and he must
be left to think the moth had dropped into the
earthly fires of venal ambitions and of base
desires.

Could you not leave me here ? ' she said
wistfully and a little timidly as she sat at the
breakfast-table.

He answered with his curt and caustic
laugh.

I thank you for the compliment ! No,
my dear, one does not go through all the
weariness and folly of marriage ceremonies to
leave the loveliness one has purchased so hardly
in a week ! Have patience ! I shall be tired
of you soon, maybe. But not until you have
shown your diamonds at an Imperial ball. Do
not get too pale. The court will rally me upon
my tyranny. You are too pale. A touch of
your mother's rouge will be advisable unless
you get some colour of your own.'

Vera was silent.

Her throat seemed to contract and choke
her. She set her glass down untouched.

This was her master ! — this man who
would tire of her soon, and bade her rouge
whilst she was yet sixteen years old !

Yet his tyranny was less horrible to her
than his tenderness.

That night they left for Eussia.

A few days later the gossip of St. Petersburg,
in court and cafe, talked only of two

things — the approaching arrival of the new
beauty, Princess Zouroff, with the opening of
the long closed Zouroff Palace on the Newski
Prospect; and of the immense penalty paid
in forfeit by the great tenor, Correze, to escape
the last twenty nights of his engagement in
that city.

I had better forfeit half my engagement
than lose my voice altogether,' said Correze
impatiently, in explanation. 'The thousands
of francs I can soon make again ; but if the
mechanical nightingale in my throat give way
- — I must go and break stones for my bread.
No ! in this atmosphere I can breathe no longer.
I pay — and I go to the south.'

He paid and went; and St. Petersburg
was half consoled for his departure by the
entry on the following day of Prince Zouroff,
and of her whom all the world called now,
and would call henceforward. Princess Vera.

END OP THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : PRINTED BT

8POTTI3W00DK Ard CO., KEW-street SQCABg

AND Parliament STREET

Imperial 8vo, with 147 fine Engravings, half-morocco, scythe

EARLY TEUTONIC, ITALIAN,

AND FRENCH MASTERS.
Translated and Edited from the Dome Series by A. H. Keene,
M.A.I, With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, 1,200 pages, cloth extra, i2j. 6d.

THE READER'S HANDBOOK

OF ALLUSIONS, REFERENCES, PLOTS, AND STORIES.

By the Rev. E. Cobham Brewer, LL.D. [ht the press.
Abstract of CotiT-E^rs.—Aitt/iors and Dates of Dramas, Operas, and Oratorios
— Curiosities connected with Dates, Dynasties, Names, and Letters — Dates
of Poems, Novels, Tales — Dying Words of Historic Characters — Errors of References
and Illustrations — Anachronisms — Historical, Legendary, Dramatic ^
and other Parallels — Lists of Bogie Names, of rioted Diamonds and Nuggets*
Dwarfs and Giants, Fools and Jesters, Favourites of Great Men, Ivipro^nsators,
Kings ivith Character Names, Knights, Literary Depositors, of Livres exceeding
years, of Medical Quacks, of the Oaths of Great Men, Relics, Revolutionary
Sorts, Ring Posies, the Sagas, h^c. — Names and Characters of Dramas, Novels,
Tales, Romances, Epic Poets, ^'c— Characteristics of Noted Artists — Plots of
Plays, the Stories of Epic Poems, Ballads, and other Tales — Pseudonyms,
Epojiyms, Nicknames, titular Surnames, names of Sifnilitude—Saifits who are
Patrons of Diseases, Places, and Trades— Sovereigns of England : their titles
arid S7iperscripiio7is, the Days of their Death — Stimulants used by Public Actors
and Orators — Striking lines of noted Authors, and Sayings of Great Men — Superstitions
and Traditions about Animals ; &'c. 6t'c.

Crown 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt, ys. 6d.

Advertising, A History of.

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Specimens,
and Notes of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson.
V/e have here a book to be thank fzd for. We recommend the present volume
which takes us through antiquity, the middle ages, and the present time, illustration
all in turn by advertisements — serious, comic, roguish, or downright rascally.
The volume is full of entertainment frown the first page to the last"— \thkh Mut/i.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations-js. 6d.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

Translated from the German of A. Rosengarten by W. Collects
With 6 39 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Artemis Ward's Works :

The Works of Charles Farmer Browne, better known as Artemis
Ward. With Port ait, Facsimile of Handwriting, &c.

Afghanistan AND THE R [/SSI A N Ada Once ON MER V.
Second Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Illustrations, xZs.

Baker's Clouds in the East :

Travels and Adventures on the Person-Turcoman Frontier. By
Valentine Baker. Second Edition, revised and corrected.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Balzac— The Comedie Humaine and its

Author. With Translations from Balzac. By H. H. Walker.

Deserves the highest praise. The brest compliment we can pay him is to hope .^
that we may soon see his translation of the 'comedies Humaine followed by another
ivcrk. Good taste, good style , a?/d conscientious work." — Examiner.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London ;

With some Account of their Predecessors, the Early Goldsmiths : together
with Lists of Bankers from 1677 to 1876. By F. G, Hilton Price.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Bardsley's Our English Surnames :

Their Sources and Significations. By Charles Warning Bardsley,
M. A. Second Edition, revised throughout, and considerably enlarged.
Mr. Bardsley has faithfully consulted the original mediaeval documents and
7uo^ksfrom which the origin and development of sitrnajties can alone be satisfactorily
traced. He has furnished a valuable contribution to the literature of
sure ties, a nd we hope to hear more of him. in this field'" — Times.

Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7^1 6d.

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by LuDWiG Bernstein. Additional
Tales by Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations by Richter.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, with Map and Illustrations, 12^.

Beerbohm's Wanderings in Patagonia;

Or, Life among the Ostrich-Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm.

*' Full of well-told and exciting incident. . . . . A ride, ivhich at all times
would have had a wild and savage attraction, was destined by the merest chance

to prove unexpectedly perilous and adventurous These stirring scenes

throughout which Mr. Beerbohm. shows no slight degree of bravery and coolness,
are described in a manner which is both spirited and modest. . . . A thoroughly
tenable story, which well f Us up a not unmanageable volume." — Graphic.

Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21J. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.
The First Series including Examples by Wilkie, Constable,
Turner, Already, Landseer, Machine, E. M, Ward, Frith,
Sir John Gilbert, Leslie, Anselm, Marcus Stone, Sir Noel
Paton, Feed, Eyre Crown, Gavin O'Neil, and Maddox Brown.
The Second Series containing Pictures by Armytage, Feed,
GooDALL, Henley, Horsey, Marks, Nicholls, Sir Noel
Paton, Pickersgill, G. Smith, Marcus Stone, Solomon,
Straight, E, M. Ward, and Warren.

All engraved on See in the highest style of Art. Edited, with
■ Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, Mea.
TJiis book is well got up, and good engravings by Teens, Luinl Stocks, and
otters, bring back to us Royal Academy Exhibitions of past years." — Times.

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated by Arthur Hopkins.

Belgravia

For January, 1880, will contain the First Chapters of Two New
Novels (each to be continued throughout the year) : — I. The Confidential
Agent. By James Payn, Author of " By Proxy," &c.—
II. The Leaden Casket. By Mrs. A. W. Hunt, Author of
Thornicroft's Model," &c. This number will also contain the First
of a Series of Twelve Articles on "Our Old Country Towns," with
Five Illustrations by Alfred Rummer. The February Number will
contain a New Story entitled Birds in the Snow, by Ouida.
%* The Thirty-ninth Volume of BELGRAVIA, elegantly
bound in crimson cloth, full gilt side and back, gilt edges, price js. 6d., is
now ready. — Handsome Cases for binding volumes can be had at zs. each.

One Shilling, with numerous Illustrations.

Belgravia Annual, The,

For Christmas, 1879. With Contributions from F. W. Robinson,
James Payn, Button Cook, J. Arbuthnot Wilson, Cuthbert
Bede, Jean Middlemost, Percy Fitzgerald, and others.

Demy Bvo, Illustrated, uniform in size for binding.

Blackburn's Art Handbooks :

Academy Notes, 1875. With 40 Illustrations. is.
Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1878. With 68 Illustrations. is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations. is.
Dudley Notes, 1878. With 64 Illustrations, is.
Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, pictures
at South Kensington. (The Raphael Cartoons, Sheep

Collection, &c.) With 70 Illustrations. \s.

The English Pictures at the National Gallery. With 114

Illustrations, is.

Art Handbooks — continued.

The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts. \s. 6d.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Voluir.e, with
nearly co Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.
With Notes by Henry Blackburn, and 242 Illustrations. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 3J.

UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY NOTES."
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, is.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 18 78. 95 Illustrations, is.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. i.f.
Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations, is.

Royal Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illustrations,
IS.

Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. With Facsimile
Sketches by the Artist. Demy 8vo, is.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21s,

Blake (William).

Etchings from his Works. By W. B, ScOTT. With descriptive Text.

Tee best side of Blake's work is given heine, and makes a really attractive
volume, which all can enjoy. . . . The etching is of the best kind, more rejoined
and delicate than the original work." — Saturday Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Boccaccio's Cameron ;

or. Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait, and
Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 75-. (>d.

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis. An entirely
New and Revised Edition, with fine full-page Illustrations.

Bowers' (Georgia) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from

Gorseborough. II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with
Stag Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 215.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured

in facsimile oT the originals. Oblong 4to, half-bound, 215-.

[/« preparation.

Bret Harte, "Works by :

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With
Introductory Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait of the Author, and 50
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. (id.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. By Brat Harte.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, zs. ; cloth limp, is. 6d.
*' Fe-jj modern Engiish-~ivriting huynonrists have achieved the popularity rf
Mr. Bret Harte. He has passed, so to speak, beyond book-fame into talk-fatni ,
People who nay never perhaps have Field one 0/ his little vohnncs in their
hands, are perfectly familiar with some at least of their contents Pictures
of Californian camp-life, 7cnapproached in their quaint pict'uresqneness
afiddeep human interest. "daily News.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Cap.

8vo, picture cover, \s. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3.?. 6tf.

The Lick of Roaring Gamp, and other Sketches. By Bret

Harte. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, is.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. Fcap. 8vo, picture

cover, \s. \ In the press.

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with full-page Portraits, 45. 6d.

Brewster's (Sir David) Martyrs of Science.

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Astronomical Plates, 4J. 6d.

Brewster's (Sir D.) More Worlds than One,

the Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of the Christian,
Demy 8vo, profusely Illustrated in Colours, 30J.

British Flora Medica :

A History of the Medicinal Plants of Great Britain. Illustrated by
a Figure of each Plant, COLOURED by hand. By Benjamin H.
Barton, F.L.S., and Thomas Castle, M.D., F.R.S. A New Edition,
revised and partly re-written by John R. Jackson, A.L.S.,
Curator of the Museums of Economic Botany, Royal Gardens, Kew.

Tf/E STOJHARD BUNYAN.—Cro^n Svo. cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates bj^
Stothard, engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 14J.

Campbell's (Sir G.) White and Black :

The Outcome of a Visit to the United States. By .Sir George
Campbell, M.P.
Few persons are likely to take it up without finishing it'' — Nonconformist.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ts. 6d.

Carlyle (Thomas) On the Choice of Books.

With Portrait and Memoir.

Small 4to, cloth gilt, with Coloured Illustrations, lo. 6d.

Chaucer for Children:

A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With Eight Coloured

Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.
It must not only take a high place among the Christmas and New Year hooks
of this season, but is also of permanent value as an introduction to the study of
Chaucer, whose works, in selections of some kind or other, are now text-books in
every school that aspires to give sound instruction in English." — Academy.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Map and Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Cleopatra's Needle:

Its Acquisition and Removal to England Described. By Sir J. E.
Alexander.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Coleman's Humorous Works :

"Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers, " and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G.
B. Blackstone, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Two Vols, royal Svo, with Sixty-five Illustrations, zSs.

Conway's Demonology and Devil-Lore.

By Concur Daniel Conway, M.A., B.D. of Divinity College,
Harvard University ; Member of the Anthropological Inst., London.

A variable contribution to mythological literature. . . . There is much good
writing among these disquisitions, a vast find of humanity, Undeniable earnestness,
a-nd a delicate sense of humour, all set forth in pure English' — Contemporary
Review.

Square Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 6s.

Conway's A Necklace of Stories.

By Honoured. Conv^tay. Illustrated by W.J. Hennessy.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations and Maps, 24J.

Cope's History of the Rifle Brigade

(The Prince Consort's Own), formerly the 95th. By Sir William
H. Cope, formerly Lieutenant, Rifle Brigade.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 7^. 6d.

Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

with Notices of the Early History of Eton College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of "The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
A nero edition of ' Creasy's Etonians ' will be welcome. The book was a
favourite a quarter of a century ago, and it has maintained its reputation. The
value of this new edition is enhanced by the fact that Sir Edward Creasy has
added to it several memoirs of Etonians who have died since the first edition
appeared. The work is eminently interesting." — Scotsman.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Two very thick Volumes, js. 6d. each.

Cruikshank's Comic Almanac.

Complete in Two Series : The First from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second
from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the Best Humour of
Thackeray, Hood, Mathew, Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel Engravings
by Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.

Parts I. to XIV. now ready, 2,1s. each. ^

Russians' History of Hertfordshire.

By John E. Russians. Illustrated with full-page Plates on Copper
and Stone, and a profusion of small Woodcuts.
Mr. Russians has, from sources not accessible to Clutterhuck, made most
valuable additions to the manorial history of the county from the earliest period
downwards, cleared up many doubtful points, and given original details Con. »
coming various subjects untouched or imperfectly treated by that writer. Trie
pedigrees seem, foliage been constructed with great care, and are a valuable additu n
to the genealogical history of the county. Mr. Russians appears to have do e
his work conscientiously, and to have spared neither time, Icibour, 7wr expense to
rafter his volumes worthy of ranking in the highest class of County Histories'*
Academy.

COMPLETION OF PLANCHE'S CYCLOPEDIA OF COSTUME.

Now ready, in Two Volumes, demy 4to, handsomely bound in half-morocco,

gilt, profusely Illustrated with Coloured and Plain Plates and

Woodcuts, price £7 ys.

Encyclopaedia of Costume ;

or, A Dictionary of Dress — Regal, Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military —
from the Earnest Period in England to the reign of George the Third.
Including Notices of Contemporaneous Fashions on the Continent,
and a General History of the Costumes of the Principal Countries of
Europe. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald.
The Volumes may also be had separately (each Complete in itself) at £^ 135. 6d. each :
Vol. I. THE DICTIONARY.

Vol. II. A GENERAL HISTORY OF COSTUME IN EUROPE.
Also in 25 Parts, at 55. each. Cases for binding, 5^. each.
"A comprehensive and highly valuable book of reference. . . . We have
rarely failed to fetid in this book an account of an article of dress, while in most
of the entries curious and instructive details are given. . . . sir. Planche' s
enormous labour of love, the production of a text which, whet Iter in its dictionary
form or in that of the ' General History,' is within unintended scope immeasurably
tete best and richest work on Costume in English. , . . This book is not oily
one of the most readable works of the kind, but intrinsically attractive and
amusing"— At HRf^JEUU.

A most readable and interesting work — and it can scarcely be consulted in
vain, whether the reader is in search for information as to military, court,
ecclesiastical, legal, or professional costume. . . . All the chromo-lithographs,
and most of the woodcut illustrations— the latter amounting to several thousands
are very elaborately executed ; and the 2vork forms a livre de luxe tvhich renders
it equally suited to the library arid the ladies' drawing-room." — Times.

*^ One of the viost perfect works ever published timon the subject. The illustrations
are 7iumero7ts and excellent, and world, eve?i without the letterpress, rende-^
the work an invaluable book of reference for information as to costumes for fancy
balls and character quadrilles. . . . Beautifully printed and superbly illustrated."
— St an da rd.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 24J.

Dodge's (Colonel) The Hunting Grounds of

the Great West : A Description of the Plains, Game, and Indians of
the Great North American Desert. By Richard Irving Dodge,
Lieutenant-colonel of the United States Army. With an Introduction
by William Blackmore ; Map, and numerous Illustrations drawn
by Ernest Grist.

"This magnificent volume is one of the most able and most interesting works
which has ever proceed td from an American pen, while its freshness is equal to
that of any similar book. Col. Dodge has chosen a S7t^ject of which he is master,
and treated it ivith fitness that leaves nothing to be desired, and i?i a style which
is charming eqiiallyjor its picinresqneness and purity." — Nonconformist,

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, i-zs. 6d.

Dora's Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their

Oddities. By Dr. John Dor an, F.S.A.

A greater genius for writing of the anecdotic kind few then have had. At
to giving any idea of the contents of the book, it is quite impossible. Those who
know how Dr. Dora used to write — it is sad to have to time the past tense of one of
the most cheerful of men — will understand what we mean ; and iJiose who do not
must take it on trust from us that this is a remarkably entertaining volume." —
Spectator.

Second Edition, demy 8vo, cloth gilt, with Illustrations, \Zs.

Unravel's The Great Divide :

A Narrative of Travels in the Upper Yellowstone in the Summer of

1874. By the Earl of Unravel. With Maps and numerous

striking full-page Illustrations by Valentine W. Bromley.

There has not for a lo7ig time appeared a better book of travel than Lord

Dunraven^ s ^ The Great Divides . . . The book is full of clever observation,

and both narrative and illustrations are thoroughly good." — Athenaeum.

Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6^. per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat.
"Mr. Groat has spent the most laborious and the most enthusiastic care on
the perfect restoration and preservation of the text ; and it is very unlikely that
any other edition of the poet can ever be called for. . . From Mr. Groat we
always expect and always receive the final results of most patient and competent
scholarship"— K-XAum-B.^.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides.

Noble Numbers, and Complete
Collected Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes, Steel Portrait,
Index of First Lines, and
Glossarial Index, &c. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works, including: all
those in "Arcadia." With Portrait,
Memorial Introduction, Essay on
the Poetry of Sidney, and Notes.

1. Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete

Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes. OneVoI.

2. Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto
Unpublished MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited. Memorial-introduction

and Notes. Two Vols. Three Vols.

Crown 8v», cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6s.

Emanuel On Diamonds and Precious

Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Teats fur
ascertaining their Realty. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. W'uh
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys.Sd.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

Folio, cloth extra, £1 his. 6d.

Examples of Contemporary Art.

Etchings from Representative Works by living English and Foreign
Artists. Edited, with Critical Notes, by J. Comyns Carr.
li would not be easy to met-with a more suinptuojis, and at the some time
a more tastcfni and instructive di-azuin^-rooiu book." — .""Joxcoxformist.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Fairholt's Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its

Manufacture, and irs Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By F.

W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards of

100 Illustrations by the Author.
A very pleasant and instructive history of tobacco and its associations, which
we cordially recommend alike to the v stories and to the enemies of the natc^-
maligned but certainly not neglect weed. . . . Full 0/ interest and informations"—
Dwwi News.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 45. 6d.

Faraday's Chemical History of a Candle.

Lectures delivered to a Juvenile Audience. A New Edition. Edited
by W. Crooked, Fac S. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, v/ith Illustrations, 45-. 6d.

Faraday's Various Forces of Nature.

A New Edition. Edited by W. Crookes, F.C.S. With numerous
Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 'js. 6d.

Finger-Ring Lore:

Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By William Jones, F.S.A.
With Hundreds ol Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and
Countries.

"One of those gossiping bjjks which are as f.dl nf amusement as of instruction."
— Athen^L'm.

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Gentleman's Magazine, The,

For January, 1880, will contain the First Chapters of a New Novel
entitled Queen Gophetua, by R. E. Francisco.
*^* Now ready, the Volume for ]\J\.Y to December, 1879, cloth extra,
price Ss. 6d.; and Cases for binding, price 2s. each.

Demy 8vo, pictorial cover, price \s.

Gentleman's Annual, The,

for Christmas, 1879. Containing Two Complete Stories : Esther's
Glove, by R. E. Francillon ; and The Romance of Giovanni
Calvotti, by D, Christie Murray.

THERUSKIN G/?/A/M— Square 8vo,cloth extra,6j.6if. ; gilt edges,75.6^.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor.
Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations
after: the inimitable designs of George Cruikshank. Both Series
Complete.

The illustrations of this volume . . . are of qiiite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales-which
they illustrate ; and the original etchings, as I have before said in the Appendix to
my ' Elements of Drawing,' were unrivalled in-masterfilness of touch since Rembrandt
(iii some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by hin). . . . To make
somewhat enlarged copies 0/ them, looking at tient through a magnifying glass,
aid never putting two lines where Cruikshank has put 07tly one, would be an exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be learnt
in schools." — Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Blenny's A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners. By George
Glenn Y. \ In the press.

A New Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 155.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.
KONER. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by
Dr. F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Greenwood's Low-life Deeps :

An Account of the Strange Fish to be found there. By James Greenwood.
With Illustrations in tint by Alfred Concave.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, "js. 6d.

Greenwood's Wilds of London:

Descriptive Sketches, from Personal Observations and Experience, of
Remarkable Scenes, People, and Places in London. By James Greenwood.
With 12 Tinted Illustrations by Alfred Concave.

II

Square imo (Tauchnitz size),

Golden Library, The :

Ballad History of England. By |

W. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club. I

Byron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of

the Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the

Breakfast Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities.

Complete. With all the original Illustrations.


Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both

Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale

for a Chimney Corner, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, 2J-. per volume.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.


Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve,


St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and

Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh
Hunt.
Shelley's Later Poems : Lion

and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel-borne.

Edited, with additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, ^s. 6d.

Golden Treasury of 'Thought, The :

An EN-CYCLOPiEDiA OF QUOTATIONS from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor.

Large 4to, with 14 facsimile Plates, price One Guinea.

Grosvenor Gallery illustrated Catalogue.

Winter Exhibition (1877-78) of Drawings by the Old Masters and
Water-colour Drawings by Deceased Artists of the British School.
With a Critical Introduction by J. Comyns Carr.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 4^. 6d.

Guyot's Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its Relation to the History of Mankind.
With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray ; 12 Maps
and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and copious Index.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7.?. bd.

Hairs(Mrs. S. Sketches of Irish Character.

With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Machine, Gilbert,
Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.
"the Irish Sketches of this lady resemble Miss Mitjbrd^s beautiful English

sketches in ' Onr Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and

bright." — Blackwood's Magazine.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 45. 6d. ; a few large-paper copies, half-rob., xos. 6d.

Handwriting, The Philosophy of.

By Don Felix de Salamanca. With 134 Facsimiles of Signatures.

Small 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, illustrated cover, is. ;
cloth limp, IS. 6d.\

Haweis's (Mrs.) The Art of Dress.

By Mrs. H. R. Haweis, Author of " The Art of Beauty," &c. Illustrated
by the Author.
•M well-considered attcivpt to affly canons of good taste to the costumes cj

Indies oj 07ir time Mrs. H avueis irides frankly and to Ie point, she

docs not mince matters, bit boldly rci>ionst-) lies with her C7i7i sex cii the follies
they indulge in We may recommend the book to tl'^e ladies whom it

If c-? « Cf?^?/. J . " — A T H EN ^ U M .

Square 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece
and numerous Illustrations, los. bd.

Haweis's (Mrs.) The Art of Beauty.

By Mrs. H. R. Haweis, Author of "Chaucer for Children." With

nearly One Hundred Illustrations by the Author.

"^ vtcst irdcrestnig hook, fill of Talvablc hints aid suggestions 1/

ycT.ng ladies would hut lend their ears for a Utile to Mrs. H awe's, ive a-se quae
sure that it woiild rcszdt i^i their being at once fno7e Tasteful, 77 : ere taffy, and
vivre healthy tho7t they 7iow often ore, with their f ah e hair, high heels, light Cow'
sets, arid ever so muc h, che of the same sorts Noncon forms.

Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, is. ; cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Hawthorne. — Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds
: a Romance. By July an Haw thorne.

Thirteenth Edition. Vols. I. and II., demy 8vo, 12s. each.
History of Our Own Times, from the Accession

of Queen Victoria to the Berlin Congress. By J austin McCarthy.

Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little hit app7-07ial.
This is a really good hook 07i a really itiier-estwg subject, and words piled on words
could say no 77107 e for it. . . . S7ich is the effect of its ge7ieraljt4stice, its breadth
of view, and its sparkling buoyancy, that very few of its readers will close these
voluntas without looking forward with interest to the two fiat are to follow." —
Saturday Review.

*^* Vols. III. and IV., completing the work, will be ready in January.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6.c

Hothouse's The Dead Hand :

Addresses on the subject of Endowments and Settlements of Proper.
By Sir Arthur Hothouse, Q.C. K. C.S.I. [/« the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, yj. dd.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annual;.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and over Two Hundred Original
Illustrations.

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6j-.

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Br<;xto.\ and E. C. Barnes.

The antoine letterpress is profusely interspersed irish the jing^lifi^ rhymes
which children hz'3 and learn so easily. Messrs. Briton and Barnes do full
fits 'ice tj the writer's meaning; ani a pleasant result of the harmonious cooperation
of author a^^-d artist could not be desired. " —Times.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. bd.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns, and Hoaxes.
W with a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7J. 6d.

Howell's Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This hook is an attempt, and on the "whole a successful attempt, to place the
work of trade unions in the past, and their objects in the future, fairly before the
public from the working man-point o /z/?>w."— Pall MA ll Gazette.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 125-. 6d.

Suffer's The Troubadours :

A Hisi-nry of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By
Francis' Hl'effer.

This vi^y Meant volume, in which a very difficult subject is handled in a
li^hi and lively manner, but at the same time with an erudition and amount of
information ivhich shizv him to be thoroughly master of the language and literature
of Provence." — Times. ^

A New Edition, Revised and partly Re-written, with several New
Chapters and Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Jennings' The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers, and Explanations of the Mystic Symbols represented
in the Monuments and Talismans of the Primaeval Philosophers.
By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page Plates and upwards
of 300 Illustrations.
"One of those volumes w \ ici nay be taken up and dipped into at random for half-an-hour's
reading, or, on the other hand, appealed to by the student as a source of
valuable information nn a system which has 710 1 only exercised for hundreds of years
an extraordinary influence on the mental development of so shrewd a people as the
Jews, but has capt huit i'd th' minds nf some of the greatest thinkers of Christendom
in the sixteenth ani seventeenth centuries." — Sheds Mercury.

Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14J.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6j.

Kavanaghs' Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JuLiA Kavanagh. With
Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them as delightful as the
best of Grimm.' s * German Popular Stories.' For the most part the
stories are downright thorough going fairy stories of the most admirable kind,
Mr, Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, are admirable." — Spectator.

Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates-zs. 6d.

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, los. 6d.

Lamb (Mary and Charles) :

Their Poems, Letters, and Remains. With Reminiscences and Notes
by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's Portrait of the Essayist,
Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare First Editions of Lamb's and
Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations.

** Very many passages will delight those fond of literary trifles ; hardly any
portion will fail in interest for lovers of Charles Lamb and his sister. " — Standard,

Small 8vo cloth extra, 5^.

Lamb's Poetry for Children, and Prince

Doris. Carefully Reprinted from unique copies.

*' The quaint and delightful little hook, over the recovery of which all the hearts
of his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing," — A. C. Swinburne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Portraits, 7^. ^d.

Lamb's Complete Works,

In Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Original Editions, with many
Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction,
by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsimile of a Page
of the " Essay on Roast Pig."

"A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been
wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains
to bring together Latnb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a
number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original
appearance in various old periodicals"— SArvKOKY Review.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Maps and Illustrations, \Zs.

Lament's Yachting in the Arctic Seas;

or, Notes of Five Voyages of Sport and Discovery in the Neighbourhood
of Spitsbergen and Novaya Zemlya. By James Lament,
F.R.G.S. With numerous full-page Illustrations by Dr. LiVESAY,
After wading through numberless volumes fff icy fiction, concocted narrative ^
mind spurious biography of Arctic voyagers, it is pleasant to meet with a real and
genuine volume. . . . He shows much tact in recounting his adventures, and
they are so interspersed with anecdotes and information as to make them, anything
but wearisome. . . . The book, as a whole, is the most important addition
trade to our Arctic literature for a long time." — Athenaeum.

Crown 8vo, cloth; full gilt, js. 6d.

Latter-day Lyrics :

Poems of Sentiment and Reflection by Living Writers ; selected and
arranged, with Notes, by W. Davenport Adams. With a Note on
some Foreign Forms of Verse, by Austin Dobson.

Crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, 6s.

Leigh's A Town Garland.

By Henry S. Leigh, Author of "Carols of Cockayne."
"I/Afr. Leigh's verse survive to a future generation — and there is tw reason
why that honour should not be accorded productions so delicate, so finished, and so
full of humour — their author will probably be remembered as the Poet of the
Strand. Very whimsically does Mr. Leigh treat the subjects which commend
themselves to him His verse is always admirable in rhythm, and his

rhymes are happy enough to deserve a place by the best of Bargain The

entire contents of the volume are equally noteworthy for humour and for daintiness
of workmanship .'' — Athenaeum.

Second Edition. — Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, loi. 6d .

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.

By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., Lecturer on Zoology and Comparative
Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School.
"// is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator,
zuJto in the intervals of his more serious professional labours sets hiutselfto impart
knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as nay attract and instruct,
with no danger of misleading the tyro in nattir^l science. Such a work is this
little volume, made up of essays and addresses Tuyittfn and delivered by Dr.
Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in science at Edinburgh and Glasgow, at
leisure intervals in a busy professional dfe. . . . Dr. Wilson s passes teem, with
matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the truths

of «a^Mr^."— SATURDAYjREVIaW^

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations-js. 6d.

Life in London;

or, The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of CRUiKSHANKsJUustrat^ions, in Colours, after the Originals.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
*thoreau: A Study."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. bd.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including "Outre Mer," 'hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets
and Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations
by Valentine Bromley.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, yj. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works.

Carefully Reprinted from the Original Editions. With numerous
fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By a Sane Patient.

The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though the sti-hject
he. There is no personal bitterness, ait 710 violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when Fie was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book ; it is
bright, calm, and to the point." — Spectator.

Royal 8vo, cloth extra, with 14 fine Plates, \2s. 6d.

Lusiad (The), of Camoens.

A New Translation by Robert French Duff. fin the press.,

A NORMAN AND BRETON TOUR.
Square 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt top, profusely Illustrated, lOJ. 6^.

Macquoid's Pictures and Legends from

Normandy and Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

numerous Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid.
*' Mr, and Mrs. Macquoid have been strolling z'« Normandy and Brittany ^
and the result of their observations and researches in that picturesque land of
romantic associations is an attractive volume, which is neither a work of travel
nor a collection of stories, but a book partaking almost in egtial degree oj each of
these characters. . . . The wanderings of the tourists, their sojourning in oM
inns, their explorations of ancient towns, and loiter kings by rivers and other pleasant
spots, are all related in a fresh and lively style. . . . The illustrations,
which are numerous, are drawn, as a rule, with remarkable delicacy as well as
with true artistic feeling." — Daily News.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, "zs. 6d.

Madre Natura v. The Moloch of Fashion.

By Luke Limner. With 32 Illustrations by the Author. Fourth
Edition, revised and enlarged.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 5^.

Magna Charta.

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

*^* A full Translation, with Notes, on a large sheet, 6d.

NEW WORK BY THE A Author OF " THE NEW REPUBLIC:'
Second Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, \2.s. 6d.

Mallock's Is Life Worth Living ?

By William Harrel Mallock.

This deeply interesting volume It is the most powerful vindication

of religion, both natural and revealed, that has appeared sitice Bishop Butler
Wite, and is much more useful that either the Analogy or the Sermons of that
great divine, as a refutation of tete peculiar form assumed by the infidelity of the

prexnt day Deeply philosophical as the book is, there is not a heavy

pagi gift it. The writer is possessed,' so to speak, leith his great subject, has
sounded its depths, surveyed it in all its extent, and brought to bear on it all the
resources of a vivid, rich, and impassioned style, as vjell as an adequate acquaints
the science, time philosophy, and the literature of the ^fl y."— Irish Daily
New;.

Mark Twain's Works:

the Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected

throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra-js. 6d.

Tae Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With

One Hundred Illustrations. Small 8vo, cloth extra-js. 6d.
*«* Also a Cheap Edition, in illustrated boards, at 2J.

**A book to be read. There is a certain freshness and novelty about it, a
practically romantic character, so to speak, which ivill take it very attractive.'
— Spectator.

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocents

Woad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By Mark Twain. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain.

Pes: 8vo, illustrated boards, 2^.

Small 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Miller's Physiology for the Young;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its Applications to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Airs. F. Fenwick Miller.

A clear arid convenient little book." — Saturday Review.

"ran admirable introduction to a subject-which all who value Health and enjoy
life should have at their fingers' ends"— Echo.

Small 8vo, is.; cloth extra, is. 6d.

Milton's The Hygiene of the Skin.

A Concise Set of Rules for the Management of the Skin ; with Directions
for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c. By J. L. Milton, Senior
Surgeon to St. John's Hospital.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Frontispiece, ys. 6d.

Moore's (Thos.) Prose and Verse— Humorous,

Satirical, and Sentimental. Including Suppressed Passages from the
Memoirs of Lord Byron. Chiefly from the Author's MSS., and all
hitherto Inedited and Uncollected. Edited, with Notes, by Richard
Heine Shepherd.

Mallock.

The New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. Mallock.

The True History of Joshua

Davidson, By E, Lynn Linton.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter

Thornbury,

Thoreau : His Life and Aims.
By H. A. Page.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

l8 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Post 8vo, cloth limp-zs. 6d. per vol.

Mayfair Library, The :

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry

S. Leigh.
Juliana. By the Hon. HuftH

Rowley.
More Juliana. By the Hon.

Hugh Rowley.
Puck on Pegasus. By H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Muses of Mayfair. Edited by

H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Gastronomy as a Fine Earl. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

Original Plays. By W. S Gilbert.


*** O^Aer Volui7zes are in preparation.

New Novels at every Library.

THIS FALLEN LEAVES. By Wilkie Collins. Three

Vols., crown 8vo.

UNDER ONE ROOF. By James Payn, Author of "By

Proxy," &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

MAID, WIFE, OR WIDOW ? By Mrs. Alexander, Author
of "The Wooing o't." Second Edit ion Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
xos. 6d.

THE CURE OF SOULS : A Novel. By Maclaren Cobban.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

It is long: sifjce we have seen a more promising debut. . . . He has
force, a certain rude pathos and realistic intensity of sentiment, and a
remarkable faculty for inventing natural dialogue. It is refreshing to come
upon a novel by a new hand which is neither silly, weak, nor flighty, and
which shows proof of thought and care in the writer."—SATURDAY Review.

A/7?. FAVJV's NEW NOVEL.
HIGH SPIRITS : Being Stories written in them. By James
Payn, Author of " By Proxy," &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.
*' In those comic historiettes of which Mr. Payn oily among living writers
has the secret, there is as much occasion for good, honest, sociable laughter, as
in aft three volumes we remember during the last ten years to have read." —
Athenaeum.

MRS. LINTON'S NEW NOVEL.
UNDER WHICH LORD .» By E. Lynn Linton, Author of
"Patricia Kimball," &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo. With Twelve Illustrations
by Arthur Hopkins.

MR. JUSTIN McCarthy's new novel.
DONNA QUIXOTE. By Justin McCarthy, Author of " Dear

Lady Disdain," &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo. With Twelve Illustrations
by Arthur Hopkins.



New Novels — continued.

NEW NOVEL BY HENRY JAMES, J UN.

\ CONFIDENCE. By Henry James, Jun. idee. 10.

CHARLES GIBBON'S NEW NOVEL.
QUEEN OF THE MEADOW. By Charles Gibbon, Author

of "Robin Gray." &c. Three Vols., crown svo. With Twelve Illustrations
by Arthur Hopkins. [Z'^c. 15,

GUI DA'S NEW NOVEL.

MOTHS. By OuiDA, Author of " Puck," "Ariadne," &c. Three
Vols., crown 8 vo. \ January.

New and Cheaper Edition.
THORNICROFT's MODEL. By Mrs. A. W. Hunt. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6f.

UNIFORM EDITION OF CHARLES GIBBON'S WORKS.
In the press, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6^. each.

IN LOVE AND WAR. By Charles Gibbon.

WHAT WILL THE WORLD SAY ? By Charles Gibbon.

FOR THE KING. By Charles Gibbon.

IN HONOUR BOUND. By Charles GiBBO>i.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, gj.

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Comyns Carr. Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott.

*' A delightftilbook , of a kijid which is far too rare. If anyone wants to really
know the North Italianfoik, we can honestly advise him to omit the journey, and
sit down to read Mrs. Carr s pages instead. . . . Description with Mrs. Carr
is a real gift. . . . It is rarely that a book is so happily illustrated' — Contemporary
Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6j. per Vol.

Old Dramatists, The :

Ben Jonson's Works.

With Notes, Critical and Explanatory,
and a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel
Cunningham. Three Vols.

Chapman's Works.

Now First Collected. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the Plays
complete, including the doubtful ones;
Vol. II. the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay

by Algerian Charles Swinburne ;
Vol. III. the Translations of the Iliad
and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works.

Including his Translations. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, by Co.
Cunningham. One Vol.
Massinger's Plays.

From the Text of William Gifford.
With the addition of the Tragedy of
Behave as you List." Edited by
Col. Cunningham. One Vol.

Crown 8vo, red cloth extra, ^s. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine.

Tricotrin.

Puck.

By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.

Folle Ferine. By Ouida

Dog of Flanders. By Ouida.

Pascal. By Ouida.
Two Wooden Shoes. By Ouida.

Signa. By Ouida.

In a Winter City. By Ouida.

Ariadne. By Ou]DA.

Friendship. By Ouida.

CHEAP EDITION OF OUIDA 'S NOVELS.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine.

Tricotrin.

Puck.

By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.

Held in Bondage. By Ouida.
Stratford. By Ouida.

Chances. By Ouida.

Under Two Flags. By Ouida.

The other Novels will follow in Monthly Volumes.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, xos. 6d.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes, Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhorne. New Edition,
with Medallion Portraits.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, yj. 6d.

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

With Baudelaire's "Essay,"

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated, js. 6d.

Poe, The Life of Edgar Allan.

By W. F. Gill. With numerous Illustrations and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Primitive Manners and Customs.

By James A. Farmer.
A book which is really both instructive and amusing, and which will open a
new field of thought to viany readers** — Athenaeum.

An admirable example of the application cf the scientific method and the
working of the truly scientific spirit'* — Saturday Review.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 3J. (yd.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr Smith. With
130 Illustrations by the Author.

Crown 8vo, carefully printed on creamy paper, and tastefully bound
in cloth for the Library, price bs. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

Popular ^tortc^ fig rtjc 33c^t ^urt)0r^.
Ready-money Mortify. By W. Besant and James Rice.
MY LITTLE GIRL. By W, Besant and James Rice.
THE CASE OF MR. Craft. By W. Besant and James Rice.
THIS SON OF VULCAN. By W. Besant and James Rice.
WITH HARP AND CROWN. By W. Besant and James Rice.
THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY. By W. Besant and James Rice.

With a Frontispiece by F. S. Walker.

BY CELIA'S ARBOUR. By W. Besant and James Rice.
THE MONKS OF Helena. By W. Besant and James Rice.
'TWAS IN TRAFALGAR'S BAY. By W. Besant & James Rice.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by Sir J. Gilbert

and Alfred Concave.

BASIL. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert

and J. Mahoney.

HIDE AND SEEK. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

THE DEAD SECRET. By WiLKiE COLLINS. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and H. Furnish.

QUEEN OF HEARTS. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

MY MISCELLANIES. By Wilkie Collins. With Steel portrait,

and Illustrations by A. Concave.

THE WOMAN IN WHITE. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated
by Sir J. Gilbert and F. A. Fraser.

THE MOONSTONE. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by G.
Du Maurier and F. A. Fraser.

MAN AND WIFE. By Wilkie Collins. Illust. by Wm. Small.

POOR MISS FINCH. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by G.
Du Maurier and Edward Hughes,

MISS OR MRS. ? By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by S. L.
Files and Henry Woods.

THE NEW MAGDALEN. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by
G. Du Maurier and C. S. Rants.

THE FROZEN DEEP. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by G.

Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.

THE LAW AND THE LADY. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated
by S. L. Files and Sydney Hall.

Piccadilly Novels — continued.

THE TWO DESTINIES. By Wilkie Collins.

THE HAUNTED HOTEL. By Wilkie Collins. Illustrated by
Arthur Hopkins.

DECEIVERS EVER. By Mrs. H. Loveth Cameron.

JULIET'S GUARDIAN. By Mrs. H. Loveth Cameron. Illustrated
by Valentine Bromley.

FELICIA. By M. Bentham-Edwards. Frontispiece by W. Bowles.

OLYMPIA. By R. E. Francillon.

UNDER THE GREENWOOD TREE. By Thomas Hardy.

THORNICROFT's MODEL. By Mrs. A. W. Hunt.

FATED TO BE FREE. By Jean Angelo.

THE QUEEN OP CONNAUGHT. By Harriettt Jay.

THE DARK COLLEEN. By Harriettt Jay.

NUMBER SEVENTEEN. By Henry Kingsley.

OAKSHOTT CASTLE. By Henry Kingsley. With a Frontispiece
by Shirley Hudson.

THE WORLD WELL LOST. By E. Lynn Linton. Illustrated
by J. Lawson and Henry French.

THE ATONEMENT OF Lead DUNDAS. By E. Lynn

Linton. With a Frontispiece by Henry Woods.

PATRICIA Kimball. By E. Lynn Linton. With a Frontispiece
by G. Du Maurier.

THE Waterfall NEIGHBOURS. By Justin McCarthy.

MY ENEMY'S DAUGHTER. By Justin McCarthy.

LINLEY ROCHFORD. By Justin McCarthy.

A FAIR SAXON. By Justin McCarthy.

DEAR LADY DISDAIN. By Justin McCarthy.

MISS MISANTHROPE. By Justin McCarthy. Illustrated by
Arthur Hopkins.

LOST ROSE. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

THE EVIL EYE, and other Stories. By Katharine S. Mac-quoit.
Illustrated by Thomas R. Macquoid and Percy Macquoid.

OPEN! SESAME! By Florence Marryat. Illustrated by

F. a. Fraser.

TOUCH AND GO. By Jean Middlemost.

WHITELADIES. By Mrs. Oliphant. With Illustrations by A.
Hopkins and H. Woods.

THE BEST OF HUSBANDS. By James Payn. Illustrated by
J. Moor Smith.

Piccadilly Novels — continued.
FALLEN FORTUNES. By James Payn.

HALVES. By James Payn. With a Frontispiece by J. Mahoney.
WALTER'S WORD. By James Payn. Illust. by J. Moyr Smith.
WHAT HE COST HER. By James Payn.
LESS BLACK THAN WE'RE PAINTED. By James Payn.
BY PROXY. By James Payn. Illustrated by Arthur Hopkins.
HER MOTHER'S DARLING. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
BOUND TO THE WHEEL. By John Saunders.
GUY WATERMAN. By John Saunders.
ONE AGAINST THE WORLD. By John Saunders.
THE LION IN THE PATH. By John Saunders.
THE WAY WE LIVE NOW. By Anthony Trollope. Illust.
THE AMERICAN SENATOR. By Anthony Trollope.
DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND. By T. A. Trollope.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, is. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[WiLKiE Collins' Novels and Besant and Rice's Novels may also be had in
cloth limp at 2J. td. See, too, the Piccadilly NovELS,y^r Library Editions

Ready-money Mortiboy. By Man and Wife. By Wilkie

Walter Besant and James Rice. Collins.

The Golden Butterfly. By Au ' Poor Miss Finch. By the same.

thorn of "Ready-money Mortiboy." MisS or MrS. ? By the same.

This SonofVulcan.By the same. The New Magdalen. By

My Little Girl. By the same. Wilkie Collins.

The Case of Mr. Craft. By The Frozen Deep. By the same.

Authors of "Ready-money Mortiboy." The Law and the Lady. By

With Harp and Crown. By Wilkie Collins.

Authors of "Ready-MoneyMortiboy." ' The Two DestinieS. By WiLKIE

Surly Tim. By F. H. Burnett. Collins.

The Woman in White. By ^^^y- ^>' Edward Eggleston.

Wilkie Collins. Felicia. M. BeTHAM-EdWARDS.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins. Filthy Lucre. By Albany de

Basil. By Wilkie Collins. Fonblanque.

Hide and Seek. Bv the same. Olympia. By R. E. Francillon.

The Dead Secret. By the same. ^']?^ Temple. By James

■' , Greenwood.

The Queen of Hearts. By ^^^^^ ^-^^ Greenwood Tree.

Wilkie Collins. By Thomas Hardy.

My Miscellanies. By the same. | An Heiress of Red Dog. By
The Moonstone. By the same. I Bret Harte.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Popular 'NovKi.s—contimied.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.

By Bret Harte.

Fated to be Free. By Jean

Angelo.

The Queen of Connaught. By

Harriettt Jay.

The Dark Cobden. By Harriettt
Jay.

Number Seventeen. By Henry

KiNGSLEY.

Oakshott Castle. By the same.

The Watergate Neighbours.

By Justin McCarthy.
My Enemy's Daughter. By

Justin McCarthy.
Linley Rochford. By the same.
A Fair Saxon. By the same.
Dearly Disdain. By the same.
The Evil Eye, By Katharine

S. Macquoid.

Open! Sesame! By Florence

Marryat.
Whiteladies. Mrs. Oliphant.
Held in Bondage. By Ouida.
Stratford. By Ouida.
Chances. By Ouida.
Under Two Flags. By Ouida.
Italia. By Ouida.
Cecil Castlemaine. By Ouida.
Tricotrin. By Ouida.

Fuck. By Ouida.

The Best of Husbands. By

James Payn.

Walter's Word. By J. Payn.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

By Edgar A. Poe.

Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.
J. H. Liddell.

Gaslight and Daylight.

George Augustus Sala.

By

Bound to the Wheel. By John

Saunders.

Guy Waterman. J. Saunders.
One Against the World. By

John Saunders.

The Lion in the Path. By John

and Katherine Saunders.
Tales for the Marines.

■ Walter Thornbury.

The Way we Live Now.

Anthony Trollope.
The American Senator.

Anthony Trollope.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

T. A. Trollope.
An Idle Excursion. By Mark

Twain.

Adventures of Tom Sawyer.

By Mark Twain.

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent
of Europe. By Mark Twain.

By

By

By
By

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, is. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's.
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's.'

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Facsimile, 'js. 6d.

Prout (Father), The Final Reliques of.

Collected and Edited, from MSS. supplied by the family of the Rev.
Francis Malone, by Blanchard Jerrgld.

Proctor's (R. A.) Works :

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. By Rich. A. Proctor,

Author of "Other Worlds than Ours," &c. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. td.

Pleasant Ways in Science. By Richard A. Proctor.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, xos. 6d.
When scientific problems of an abstruse and difficult character a>-e presented
to the unscientific bifid, something more than mere knowledge is
necessary in order to achieve success. The ability to trace such problems
through the several stages of observation and experiment to their successful
solution, without once suffering the reader's attention iofiag, or his interest
ii the issue of the investigation to abate, argues the possession by the-writer,
not only of a t/wrottgh acquaintance with his subject, but also of that rare
gift, the power of readily imparting his knowledge to those who have not the
aptitude to acquire it, undigested of scientific formula. Now, such a writer
ts Mr. R. A. Proctors"— Scotsman.

Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on
Scientific Subjects. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
JOS. 6d.

Our Place Among Infinities : A Series of Essays contrasting

our Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By

Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Expanse of Heaven : A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

6s.

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. By Richard A.

Proctor. Second Edition, crown Svo, is. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, ys. 6d.

Pursuivant of Arms, The ;

or, Heraldry founded upon Facts. A Popular Guide to the Science of
Heraldry. By J. R. Plan'CHE, Esq Somerset Herald. With
Coloured Frontispiece, Plates, and 200 Illustrations,

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, \vith variorum Notes, and
numerous characteristic Illustrations by Gustave Dore.
His buffoonery was riot merely Bridges' s rough skin, which contained a rod
of gold: it was necessary as an amulet against the 7nonks and legates; and
he must be classed with the greatest creative mimics in the world— with Shakespeare,
with Dante, and with Cervantes."—^. T. Coleridge.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, js. 6d.

Rambosson's Astronomy.

By J. Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Profusely Illustrated.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Regalia: Crowns, Coronations, and Inauguration,
in various Ages and Countries. By W. Jones, F.S.A.,
Author of "Finger-Ring Lore," (Sic. With very numerous Illustrations.
Un preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, tos. 6^,

Richardson's (Dr.) A Ministry of Health,

and other Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.

This highly interesting volume contains upwards of nine addresses, written
in the author's swell-known style, and full of great and good thoughts. . . . The
work is, like all those of the author, that of a titan of genius, of great power, of
experience, and noble independence of thoughts' — Popular Science Review.

Handsomely printed, price 55.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, A.D. 1066-7.
Printed on fine plate paper, nearly three feet by two, with the principal
Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Two Vols., large 4to, profusely Illustrated, half-morocco, £,-2, i6j.

Rowlandson, the Caricaturist.

A Selection from his Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions of his Famous
Caricatures, and a Sketch of his Life, Times, and Contemporaries.
With nearly 400 Illustrations, mostly in Facsimile of the Originals. By
Joseph Greg, Author of ' ' James Gillray, the Caricaturist ; his Life,
Works, and Times."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 45. 6d. each.

Secret Out" Series, The.

The Protectionist's Treasury;

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With
numerous Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing :

A Collection of Graceful Arts, Games,
Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By
Frank Belleww. 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky :

Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult
Tricks, White Magic, Sleight of Hand.
• Edited by W, H. Cremer. 200 Illustrations.


The Merry Circle :

A Book of New Intellectual Games
and Amusements. By Clara Belleww.
Many Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book :

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from Actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. 200 Illustrations.

Magic No Mystery :
Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c.,
with fully descriptive Directions ; the
Art of Secret Writing ; Training of
Performing Animals, &c. Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.

The Secret Out :

One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and
other Recreations ; with Entertaining
Experiments in Drawing-room or
"White Magic. ' By W. H. Cremer.
300 Engravings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, yj. dd.

Samson Family, Memoirs of the :

Seven Generations of Executioners. By Henri Samson. Translated
from the French, with Introduction, by Camille Barren.
"A faithful translation of this curious work, which will certainly repay perusal
^-not on the ground of its being ful of horrors, for the original author seems to
he rather ashamed of the technical aspect of his profession, andes commendably
reticent as to its details, but because it contains a lucid account of the most notable
causes cflebres/r^w* the time of Louis XIV. to a period within the memory of
persons still living. . . . Extremely enterf^inin:^."- I) A.\i.v Tkubgrafh.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s,

Senior's Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William
Senior (red Spinner), Author of " Stream and Sea."

Shakespeare and Shakspeare's :

Shakespeare, The First Folio. Mr. William Shakespeare's

Comedies, Histories, and Tragedie-s. Published according to the true
Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. Blunt,
1623.— A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile
by a photographic process— ensuring the strictest accuracy in every detail.
Small 8vo, half-roxburgh, lo. 6d,

To Messrs. Chatty Uti Winds belongs the merit o) having done tore
to facilitate the critical study of the text of our great dramatist than all the
Shakespeare clubs and societies put together. A complete facsimile of the
celebrated First Folio edition of 1622 for half-a-guinea is at once a miracle of
cheapness and enterprise. Being in a reduced form, the type is necessarily
rather diminutive, but it is as distinct as in a genuine copy of the original ^
and will be found to be as useful and far more handy to the student than the
latter." — Athenaeum.

Shakespeare, The Vanstone. Beautifully printed in red

and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of
Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. shakspeare's

Dramatic Works, Poems, Doubtful Plays, and

Biography.— Charles Knight's Pictorial Edition, with many hundred
beautiful Engravings on Wood of Views, Costumes, Old Buildings, Antiquities,
Portraits, &c. Eight Vols., royal 8vo, cloth extra, £-t, i2j.

Shakespeare for Children : Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, xos.6d.

Shakspeare, The School of. Including " The Life and Death

of Captain Thomas Stukeley," " Nobodyand Somebody," " Histriomastix,"
The Prodigal Son," "Jack Drum's Entertainment," " A Warning for Fair
Women," and " Fair Em." Edited, with Notes, by Richard Simpson.
Introduction by F. J. Furnivall. Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, xZs.

Shakespeare Music, The Handbook of. Being an Account of

Three Hundred and Fifty Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the
Plays and Poems of Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan
Age to represent Time. By Alfred Rosse. 4to,half-Roxburghe, 7J,

Shakespeare, A Study of. By Algerian Charles Swinburne.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, %s. \ Iu the press.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page Tinted Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. ; with a Collection of Sheridaniana.
The editor has brought together "within a manageable compass not only the
seven plays by which Sheridan is best known, but a collection also of his poetical
pieces which are less familiar to the public, sketches of unfinished dramas, selections
from, his reported witticisms, aid extracts from, his principal speeches. To these
is prefixed a short but well-written memoir, giving the chief facts in Sheridan's
literary and political career ; so that, with this volume in his hand, the student
may consider himself tolerably well furnished with all that is necessary for a
general comprehension oftlte subject of it"— Vai.1. Mall Gazette.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ^s. 6d.

Signboards :

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By Jacob Haywood and John Camden Rotten.
With nearly loo Illustrations.
Even if we were ever so maliciously inclined, we could not pick out all Messrs.

Haywood and Rotten' s shuns, because the good things are so numerous as to defy

the most-wholesale depredation." — Times.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, bs. 6d.

Slang Dictionary, The :

Etymological, Historical, and Anecdotal. An Entirely New
Edition , revised throughout, and considerably Enlarged.
We are glad to see the Slang Dictionary reprinted and enlarged. From a high
scientia fie point of view this book is not to be despised. Of course it cannot fail to
be amusing also. It contains the very vocabulary of unrestrained humour, and
oddity, and grotesqueness. In a word, it provides valuable material both for the
student of language and the student of human nature." — Academy.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2s. 6d.

Smoker's Text-book, The.

By J. Homer, F.R.S.L.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5J.

Spalding's Elizabethan Demonology :

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them, as it was generally held during the
period of the Reformation, and the times immediately succeeding ;
with Special Reference to Shakspeare and his Works. By T. Alfred
Spalding, LL.B.

Crown 4to, uniform with "Chaucer for Children," with Coloured
Illustrations, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. Tory. With Illustrations in Colours by Walter J.
Morgan.

Spenser has simply been transferred into plain prose, with here and there a
line or stanza quoted, where the meaning and the diction are within a chile
comprehension, and additional point is thus given to the narrative without the
cost of obscurity. . . . Altogether the work has been well and carefully done**
—The Times.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 9^.

Stedman's Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Stedman.
We ought to be thankful to those who do critical work with competent skill
and understanding, with honesty of purpose, and with diligence and thoroughness
of execution. And Mr. Stedman, having chosen to work in this line, deserves the
thanks of English scholars by these qualities and by something more ; , , .
ke is faithful t studious and discerning." — Saturday Review.



Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, yj. dd.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People

of England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140
Illustrations. Edited by William Hone.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ji. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the
Maps in the Original Edition of " Quiver's Travels."
If he had never written either the ' Tale of a Tub ' or ' Tulliver's Travels,' his

name merely as a poet 7uould have come down to tcs, and five gone down to pos'

terlty, with well-earned honours." — Hazlitt.

Swinburne's Works :

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.

Fcap. 8vo, 5^.

Atlanta in Corydon.

A New Edition. Crown Svo, ts.

Chastened.

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 75.

Poems and Ballads.

First Series. Fcap. Svo, ^s. Also
in crown Svo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.

Second Series. Fcap. Svo, qs. Also
in crown Svo, at same price.

Notes on "Poems and Ballads."
Svo, \s.
William Blake :

A Critical Essay. With Facsimile
Paintings. Demy Svo, i6j.

Songs before Sunrise.

Crown Svo, los. dd.

Bothwell :

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 12J. tod.

George Chapman :

An Essay. Crown Svo, songs

of Two Nations.

Crown Svo, ts.

Essays and Studies.

Crown Svo, 12J.

Erechtheus :

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, ^s.

Note of an English Republican

on the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, i^.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze.

Crown Svo, 6j.

A Study of Shakespeare.

Crown Svo, Sey. [/« the press.

Medium Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ^s. 6d.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

^° S^^^^^ °^ ^^^ Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page lustres
in Colours, and Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten

Four Vols, small Svo, cloth boards, 30J.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
%* Also a Popular Edition, in Tvvo Vols, crown Svo, cloth extra, 15?

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6j.

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.
"// is not often that we meet with a volume of fairy tales possessing more fully
the double recommendation of absorbing interest and purity of tone than does the
one before us containing a collection of " Tales of Old Thule" These come, to
say the least, near fulfilling the idea of perfect works of the kind; and the illustrations
with which the volume is embellished are cqiially excellent. . . . We
commend the book to parents and teachers as an admirable gift to their children
andpTpils. "— Literary World.

One Vol. crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

Chancery," "Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," "The Fool's
Revenge," '*' Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion."
*^* The Plays may also be had separately, at Is. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and numerous
Illustrations, js. 6d.

Thackerayana :

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Hundreds of Wood Engravings, facsimile from
Mi;, Thackeray's Original Drawings.
*' It would have been a real loss to bibliographical literature had copyright
difficulties deprived the general public of this very amusing collection. One of
Thackeray's habits from his schoolboy days, was to ornament the margins and
blank pages of the books he had in use with caricature illustrations of their
contents. This gave special value to the sale of his library, and is almost cause
for regret that it could not have been preserved in its integrity. Thackeray
place in literature is eminent enough to have made this an interest to future
generations. The anonymous editor has done the best that he could to compensate
for the lack of this. It is an admirable addendum., not only to his collected
works, but also to any memoir of him. that has been, or that is likely to be,
written"— BRITISH Quarterly Review.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, js. 6d.

Thornbury's (Walter) Haunted London.

A New Edition, edited by Edward Walford, M.A., with numerous
Illustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Timbs' Clubs and Club Life in London.

With Anecdotes of its famous Coffee-houses. Hostelries, and Taverns.
By John Times, F.S.A. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with illustrations, yj. 6d.

Timbs' English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters, &c. By John Timbs,
F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 145.

Torrens' The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Morning Vol. I. of Proconsul
and Tribune : Wellesley and Cornell : Historic
Portraits. By W. M. Tokens, M.P. In Two Vols.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations, js. 6d.

Turner's (J. M. W.) Life and Correspondence;

Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow-academicians.
By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition, considerably
Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile
from Turner's original Drawings.

Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground Plans, 14J,

Walcott's Church Work and Life in English

Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Rev.
Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, B.D.

The 20th Annual Edition, for 1880, elegantly bound, cloth, full
gilt, price 50J.

Walford's County Families of the United

Kingdom. A Royal Manual of the Titled and Untitled Aristocracy of
Great Britain and Ireland. By Edward Walford, M. A., late Scholar
of Balliol College, Oxford. Containing Notices of the Descent, Birth,
Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000 distinguished Heads of
Families in the United Kingdom, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
together with a Record of the Patronage at their disposal, the
Offices which they hold or have held, their Town Addresses, Country
Residences, Clubs, &c. [sin the press.

** IVliat-would the gossips of old have given for a hook which opened to them
the recesses of every County Family in the Three Kingdoms ? . . . This work,
however, will serve other purposes besides those of mere curiosity, envy, or Malice.
It is just the book for the lady of the Iwtise to have at hafiz when snaking up the
County diviner, as it gives exactly that information which punctilious annul particular
people are so desirous of obtaining — the exact standing of every person in the county.
To the business man, ' The Coiaity Families ' stands in the place of directory and
biographical dictionary. The fund of information it affords respecting the Upper
Ten Thousand must give it a place in the lawyer's library ; arid to the money
lender, who is so interested i7ifi7iding out the difference between a gentleman and a
'gent,' between heirs-at-law and yo7t7tger sons, Mr. IValford has been a real benefactor.
In this splendid volume lie has 7na7iaged to 77ieet a 7C7tiversal want — one
which cannot fail to be felt by the lady in herdrawi7ig-room, the peer in his library,
the tradesman in his counting-louise, and the gentle7na7i in his club." — Times.

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler;

or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation : being a Discourse of Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by IzAAK Walton ; and Instructions
hove to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 6i Copperplate Illustrations.

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., warrant

to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and a
Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 4J. 6d.

Westropp's Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp, Author of " Handbook of Archaeology," '&c. With
numerous beautiful Illustrations, and a List of Marks. [/?/ the press.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

ByJ, A. Macneill Whistler.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 'js. 6d.

Wright's Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs,
Broadsides, Window Pictures, &c. By Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.A.

Large post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Wright's History of Caricature and of the

Grotesque in Art, Literature, Sculpture, and Painting, from the
Earliest Times to the Present Day. By Thomas Wright, M.A.,
F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A,

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, I72, ST. JOHN STREET, E.C.

\m

ILLINOIS LIBRARY

AT URBANACHAMPAIGS

STACKS

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINO! Mary

AT urea; .Campaign

St

Theft mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

SEP 1 3 1

I

L161— O-1096

MOTHS

SECOND VOLUME

UNDER WHICH LORD ? By E. Lynn

Linton. 3 vols, crown 8vo.
'"''Z'llfo''''^- By HeNKV JAMES, J„n. .vols.

^'^i^A f9!^^^°'^^- By Justin McCarthy.

Second Edition. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

QUEEN OF THE MEADOW. By Charles

Gibbon. 3 vols, crown Svo. y charles

"^m^^^^T^- By JAMES Pawn. Second

£edition. 3 vols, crown Svo.

JEZEBEL'S DAUGHTER. By Wilkie

Collins. 3 vols, crown Svo. [S/iorify

THE SEAMY SIDE. By the Authors of
Readymoney Mortiboy.' [Glorify.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

A NOVEL

BY

OUIDA

Like unto moths fretting a garment' (Psalm)

Iv

THREE VOLUMES— VOL. II.

IToitboit

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



\ The right of translation is reserved]

SrOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CHAPTER XII.

Again in the month of November, exactly one
year after her marriage, a tall slender figure
clothed in white, with white furs, moved to
and fro very wearily under the palms of the Villa
Nelaguine on the Gulf of Yillafranca, and her
sister-in-law, looking wistfully at her, thought :

^I hope he is not cruel — I hope not.
Perhaps it is only the death of the child that
has saddened her.'

Vere read her thoughts and looked her in
the eyes.

VOL. II. B

I am glad that the child died she said
simply.

The Princess Nelagaine shuddered a little.

Oh, my dear she murmured, ' that cannot
be. Do not say that ; women find solace
in their children when they are unhappy in
all else. You have a tender fond heart, you
would have '

I think my heart is a stone,' said the girl
in a low voice ; then she added : ' In the poem
of " Aurora Leigh " the woman loves the child
that is born of her ruin ; I am not like that.
Perhaps I am wicked j can you understand ? '

'Yes, yes; I understand,' said the Princess
Nelaguine hurriedly, and, though she was
accounted in her generation a false and heartless
little woman of the world, her eyes became
dim and her hands pressed Vere's with a genuine
pity. Long, long years before Nadine
Zouroff had herself been given to a loveless
marriage, when all her life seemed to her to
be lying dead in a soldier's unmarked grave
in the mountains of Caucasus.

That feeling will change, though, be

assured,' she said soothingly. ' When we are
very young all our sorrow is despair ; but it
does not kill us, and we live to be consoled.
Once T felt like you — yes —but now I have
many interests, many ties, many occupations,
and my sons and daughters are dear to me,
though they were not his ; so will be yours, to
you, in time.'

Vere shuddered.

People are different,' she said simply ; ' tome
it will always be the same.'

She pulled a cluster of white roses, and
ruffled them in her hands, and threw them
down, almost cruelly.

Will those roses bloom again ? ' she said.
What I did to them your brother has done
to me. It cannot be altered now. Forget
that I have said anything ; I will not again.'

One year had gone by since Vere had
been given, with the blessing of her mother
and the benison of society, to the Minotaur of
a loveless marriage. To herself she seemed so
utterly changed that nothing of her old self
was left in her, body or soul. To the world
b2

she only seemed to have grown lovelier, as was
natural with maturer womanhood, and to have
become a great lady in lieu of a graceful child.

She was little more than seventeen now,
but, herself, she felt as if centuries had rolled
over her head.

After her winter at the Imperial Court, she
had been so changed that she would at times
wonder if she had ever been the glad and
thoughtful child who had watched the North
Sea break itself in foam in the red twilight of
Northumbrian dawns.

She had a horror of herself.

She had a horror of the world.

But from the world and from herself there
was now no escape.

She was the Princess ZourofT.

An immense disgust possessed her, and
pervaded all her life ; falling on her as the
thick grey fog falls on a sunny landscape —
heavy, dull, and nauseous.

The loveliest and youngest beauty in the
Salle des Panniers, with the stars of her
diamonds shining on her like the planets of a

summer night, she was the saddest of all
earthly creatures.

The girl who had gone to bed with the sun
and risen with it ; who had spent her tranquil
days in study and open-air exercise ; who had
thought it pleasure enough to find the first
primrose, and triumph enough to write the
three letters at the foot of a hard problem;
who had gone by her grandmother's side to the
old dusky church, where noble and simple had
knelt together for a thousand years, and who
had known no more of the evil and lasciviousness
of the world at large than the white oxeye
opening under the oak glades ; the girl
who had been Vere Herbert on those dark chill
Northumbrian shores was now the Princess
Vera, and was for ever in the glare, the unrest,
the fever, and the splendour, of a great society.

Night was turned into day ; pleasure, as
the world construed it, filled each hour; life
became a spectacle ; and she, as a part of the
spectacle, was ceaselessly adorned, arrayed,
flattered, censured, and posed — as a model is
posed for the painter. All around her was

grand, gorgeous, restless, and insincere ; there
was no leisure, though there was endless ennui;
and no time for reflection, though there were
monotony and a satiety of sensation. Sin she
heard of for the first time, and it was smiled
at ; vice became bare to her, but no one shunned
it ; the rapacity of an ignoble passion let loose
and called ' marriage ' tore down all her
childish ignorance and threw it to the winds,
destroyed her self-respect and laughed at her,
trampled on all her modest shame, and ridiculed
her innocence.

In early autumn she had given birth to a
son, who had lived a few hours, and then
died. She had not sorrowed for its loss — •
it was the child of Sergius Zouroff. She
thought it better dead. She had felt a
strange emotion as she had looked on its
little body, lying lifeless ; but it was neither
maternal love nor maternal regret; it was
rather remorse.

She had been then at Svir, on the shores
of the Baltic, one of the chief estates of the
Princes of Zouroif, which all the summer long
had been the scene of festivities, barbaric in

their pomp and costliness ; festivities with
which her husband strove to wile away the
year which Imperial command had bade him
pass, after marriage, on his hereditary lands.

^ Do not allow my mother to come to me ! '
she had said once with a passionate cry when
the birth of the child had drawn near. It
was the first time she had ever appealed in anyway
to her husband. He laughed a little
grimly, and his face flushed.

'Your mother shall not come,' he said
hastily. ' Do you suppose she would wish to
be shut up in a sick room ? Perhaps she
might, though, it is true; miladi always remembers
what will look well. One must do
her the justice to say she always remembers
that, at least. But no ; she shall not come.'

So it came to pass that her mother in her
little octagon boudoir in Chesham Place, lined
with old fans of the Beau Siecle, and draped
with Spanish lace, could only weep a little with
her bosom friends, and murmur, 'My sweet
child ! — such a trial ! — in this horrible weather
by the Baltic — so cruel of the Emperor — and
to think my health will not let me go to her ! '

Zouroff, who passionately desired a legitimate
son, because he hated with a deadly
hatred his next brother Vladimir, took the loss
of the male child to heart with a bitterness
which was only wounded pride and baffled
enmity, but looked like tenderness beside the
marble-like coldness, and passive indifference
of his wife.

Physicians, who always are too clever not to
have a thousand reasons for everything, alleged
that the change of climate and temperature had
affected the health of the Princess Vera ; and
her husband, who hated Eussia with all his
might, urged this plea of her health to obtain
a reduction of the time he had been ordered
to remain on his own lands ; and obtaining
what he wished from the Tsar, returned in
November to the French Elvira.

He had purchased the villa of his sister
from her, although it was called still the Villa
Nelaguine. He had bought it in a mood of captious
irritation with his wife, knowing that to
Vere, reared in the cold, grey days and under
the cloudy skies, and by the sombre seas of the

dark north, the southern seaboard was oppressive
in its languor and its light. Sometimes
he liked to hurt her in any way he could ; if
her child had lived he would have made it
into a whip of scorpions for her. Yet he
always lavished on her so much money, and so
many jewels, and kept her so perpetually in
'the front of the greatest of great worlds, that
everybody who knew him said that he made
a good husband after all; much better than
anyone would have anticipated.

He intended to stay at the villa on the
Mediterranean for three months, and thither
came, self-invited because she was so near —
only at Paris — the Lady Dolly.

Neither Zouroff nor his sister ever invited
her to their houses, but pretty Lady Dolly was
not a woman to be deterred by so mere a trifle
as that.

I pine to see my sweet treasure ! ' she
wrote ; and Sergius Zouroff, knitting his heavy
brows, said 'Let her come,' and Yere said
nothing.

What an actress was lost in your mother,'

he added with his rough laugh ; but he confused
the talent of the comedian of society with
that of the comedian of the stage, and they are
very' dissimilar. The latter almost always
forgets herself in her part ; the former never.

So one fine, sunlit, balmy day towards
Christmas, Lady Dolly drove up through the
myrtle wood that led to the Villa Nelaguine.

It was noonday. The house guests were
straying down from upstairs to breakfast in the
pretty Pompeii room, with its inlaid marble
walls, and its fountains, and its sculpture, and
its banks of hothouse flowers, which opened
on to the white terrace, that fronted the rippling
blue sea. On this terrace Zouroff was
standing.

He saw the carriage approaching in the
distance through the myrtles.

Guest madame mere he said, turning on
his heel, and looking into the breakfast chamber.
He laughed a little grimly as he said it.

Yere was conversing with Madame Nela-
guide, who saw a strange look come into her
eyes; aversion, repugnance, contempt, pain,

and shame all commingled. ' What is there
that I do not know ? ' thought the Princess
Nadine. She remembered how Vera had not
returned her mother's embrace at the marriage
ceremony.

Sergius ZourofiP was still watching the
carriage's approach, with that hard smile
upon his face which had all the brutality and
cynicism of his temper in it, and under which
delicate women and courageous men had often
winced as under the lash.

Best madame mere,' he said again, with a
spray of gardenia between his teeth; and then,
being a grand gentleman sometimes, when the
eyes of society were on him, though sometimes
being rough as a boor, he straightened his
loose heavy figure, x^ut the gardenia in his
button-hole, and went down the steps, with the
dignity of Louis Quatorze going to meet a
Queen of Spain, and received his guest as she
alighted with punctilious politeness and an
exquisite courtesy.

Lady Dolly ascended the steps on his arm.

She was dressed perfectly for the occasion; alla

soft dove-hue, with soft dove-coloured feather
trimmings, and silvery furs with a knot of
black here and there to heighten the chastened
effect, and show her grief for the child that
had breathed but an hour. On her belt hung
many articles, but chief among them was a
small silver-bound prayer-book, and she had
a large silver cross at her throat.

^ She will finish with religion,' thought
Zouroff; 'they always take it last.'

Lady Dolly was seldom startled, and seldom
nervous ; but, as her daughter came forward onto
the terrace to meet her, she was both startled
and nervous.

Vera was in a white morning dress with a
white mantilla of old Spanish lace about her
head and throat ; she moved with serene and
rather languid grace ; her form had developed
into the richness of womanhood ; her face was
very cold. Her mother could see nothing left
in this wonderfully beautiful and stately person
of the child of eighteen months before.

Is that Vere ? ' she cried involuntarily, as
she looked upward to the terrace above.

That is Yera/ said Sergius Zouroff drily.
All the difference lay there.

Then Lady Dolly recovered herself.

'My sweet child ! Ah the sorrow ! — the joy ! '
murmured Lady Dolly, meeting her with flying
feet and outstretched arms, upon the white and
black chequers of the marble terrace.

Vere stood passive, and let her cold cheeks
be brushed by those softly tinted lips. Her
eyes met her mother's once, and Lady Dolly
trembled.

^ Oh this terrible lise ! ' she cried, with a
shiver ; ' you can have nothing worse in Eussia
! Ah, my dear, precious Vera ! I was so
shocked, so grieved ! — to think that poor little
angel was lost to us ! '

We will not speak of that,' said Vere in a
low voice, that was very cold and weary. ' You
are standing in the worst of the wind ; will you
not come into the house ? Yes ; I think one
feels the cold more here than in Russia. People
say so.'

Yes ; because one has sunshades here, and
one sees those ridiculous palms, and it ought

to be warm if it isn't,' answered Lady Dolly ;
but her laugh was nervous and her lips trembled
and contracted as she thus met her daughter
once more.

She is so unnatural ! ' she sighed to
Princess Nelaguine ; ' so unnatural ! Not a
word, even to me, of her poor dear little
dead child. Not a word ! It is really too
painful.'

The Princess Nelaguine answered drily :
Your daughter is not very happy. My brother
is not an angel. But then, you knew very well,
chere madame, that he never was one.'

I am sure he seems very good,' said Lady
Dolly piteously, and with fretfulness. She
honestly thought it.

Yere had enormous jewels, constant amusement,
and a bottomless purse ; the mind of
Lady Dolly was honestly impotent to conceive
any state of existence more enviable
than this.

To think what I am content with ! ' she
thought to herself ; she who had to worry her
husband every time she wanted a cheque ; who

had more debts for dress and pretty trifles than
she would pay if she lived to be a hundred; and
who constantly had to borrow half-a-crown fora
cup of tea at Hurlingham, or a rouleau of
gold to play with at Monaco.

Those were trials indeed !

I hope you realise that you are my mother-in-law,'
said Zouroff, as Lady Dolly sat on his
right hand, and he gave her some grapes at
breakfast.

He laughed as he said it. Lady Dolly tried
to laugh, but did not succeed.

You are bound to detest me,' she said with
an exaggerated little smile, ' by all precedents
of fiction and of fact.'

^ Oh no ! ' said Zouroff gallantly ; ' never in
fiction or in fact had any man so bewitching
and youthful a mother-in-law. On my life, you
look no older than Yera.'

Oh-h ! ' said Lady Dolly, pleased but deprecatory.
'Yera is in a grand style, you
know. Women like her look older than
they are at twenty, but at forty they look
much younger than they are. That is the

use of height and straight features, and
Greek brows. When one is a little doll, like
me, one must be resigned to looking insignificant
always.

Is the Venus de Medici insignificant ? she
is very small,' said ZourofP still most gallantly ;
and he added, in a lower key, 'You were
always pretty, Dolly ; you always will be.
I am sorry to see that prayer-book; it looks
as if you felt growing old, and you will be
wretched if you once get that idea into your
head.'

I feel young,' said Lady Dolly sentimentally.
'But it would sound ridiculous to pretend
to be so.'

Her glance went to the graceful and dignified
presence of her daughter.

Vere is very handsome, very beautiful,' she
continued hesitatingly. 'But — but — surely she
is not looking very well ? '

She is scarcely recovered,' said Zouroff
roughly, and the speech annoyed him. He
knew that his young wife was unhappy, but
he did not choose for anyone to pity her,

and for her m other, of all people, to do
so !

All ! to be sure, no ! ' sighed Lady Dolly.
It was so sad — poor little angel ! But did
Vera care much ? I think not.'

I think there is nothing she cares for,'
said Zouroff savagely. ' Who could tell your
daughter would be a piece of ice, a femme de
marre ? It is too droll.'

'Pray do not call me Dolly,' she murmured
piteously. ' People will hear.'

Very well, madame mere ! ' said Zouroff, and
he laughed this time aloud.

She was frightened — half at her own work,
half at the change wrought in Vere.

Who could tell she would alter so soon,'
she thought, in wonder at the cold and proud
woman who looked like a statue and moved like
a goddess.

To think she is only seventeen ! ' said Lady
Dolly aloud, in bewilderment.

'To be married to me is a liberal education,'
said her son-in-law, with his short sardonic
laugh.

VOL. II.

I am sure you are very kind to her murmured
poor little Lady Dolly, yet feeling herself
turn pale under her false bloom. ' The beast ! '
she said to herself with a shudder. ' The
Centaurs must have been jusfc like him.'

She meant the Satyrs.

Sergius/ said Princess Nelaguine to her
brother that night, ' Vera does not look well.'

No ? ' he answered carelessly. ' She is
always too pale. I tell her always to rouge.
If she do not rouge in Paris, she will scarcely
tell in a ball, handsome though she is.'

Rouge at seventeen ! You cannot be
serious. She only wants to be — happy. I do
not think you make her so. Do you try ? '

He stared and yawned.

It is not my metier to make women happy.
They can be so if they like. I do not prevent
them. She has ten thousand francs a month
by her settlements to spend on her caprices — if
it is not enough she can have more. You may
tell her so. I never refuse money.'

You speak like a bourgeois,' said his sister,
with some contempt. ' Do you think that

money is everything ? It is nothing to a girl
like that. She gives it all to the poor ; it is
no pleasure to her.'

Then she is very unlike her mother,' said
the Prince Zouroff with a smile.

^ She is unlike her, indeed ! you should be
thankful to think how entirely unlike. Your
honour will be safe with her as long as she
lives ; but to be happy — she will want more
than you give her at present, but the want is
not one that money will supply.'

She has been complaining ? ' said her
brother, with a sudden frown.

Madame Nelaguine added with a ready
lie : ' Not a word ; not a syllable. But one
has eyes — and I do so wish you to be kind to
her.'

Kind to her ? ' he repeated, with some
surprise. ' I am not unkind that I know of ;
she has impossible ideas ; they make me impatient.
She must take me and the world as she
finds us ; but I am certainly not unkind. One
does not treat one's wife like a saint. Perhaps
you can make her comprehend that. Were

c 2

she sensible, like others, she would be happy
like them.'

He laughed, and rose and drank some
absinthe.

His sister sighed and set her teeth angrily
on the cigarette that she was smoking.

Perhaps she will in time be happy and
sensible like them,' she said to herself ; ' and
then your lessons will bear their proper fruits,
and you will be deceived like other husbands,
and punished as you merit. If it were not
for the honour of the Zouroffs I should pray
for it!'

The Villa Nelaguine was fall of people
staying there, and was also but five miles distant
from Monte Carlo.

Vere was never alone with her mother during
the time that Lady Dolly graced the Riviera
with her presence, carried her red umbrella
under the palm-trees, and laid her borrowed
napoleons on the colour.

No word of reproach, no word of complaint
escaped her lips in her mother's presence, yet
Lady Dolly felt vaguely frightened, and longed

to escape from her presence, as a prisoner longs
to escape from the dock.

She stayed this December weather at Villa-franca,
where December meant blue sea, golden
sunshine, and red roses, because she thought it
was the right thing to do. If there had been
people who had said — well, not quite nice
things — it was better to stay with her daughter
immediately on the return from Russia. So
she did stay, and even had herself visited fora
day or two by Mr. Vanderdecken on one of
his perpetual voyages from London to Java,
Japan, or Jupiter.

Her visit was politic and useful; but it
cost her some pain, some fretfulness, and some
apprehension.

The house was full of pleasant people, for
ZourofP never could endure a day of even comparative
solitude ; and amidst them was a very
handsome Italian noble, who was more agreeable
to her than the Due de Dinant had of late
grown, and who was about to go to England
to be attached to the embassy there, and who
had the eyes of Othello with the manners of

Chesterfield, and whom lie made her husband
cordially invite to Chesham Place. She could
play as high as she liked, and she could drive
over to Monaco when she pleased, and no life
suited her better than this life; where she
could, whenever she chose, saunter through
the aloes and palms to those magic halls where
her favourite fever was always at its height,
yet where everything looked so pretty, and
appearances were always so well preserved,
and she could say to every body, ' They do have
such, good music — one can't help liking Monte
Carlo ! '

The place suited her in every way, and
yet she felt stifled in it, and afraid.

Afraid of what? There was nothing on
earth to be afraid of, she knew that.

Yet, when she saw the cold, weary, listless
life of Yere and met the deep scorn of her
eyes, and realised the absolute impotency of
rank, and riches, and pleasure, and all her
own adored gods, to console or even to
pacify this young wounded soul. Lady Dolly
was vaguely frightened, as the frivolous

are always frightened at any strength or
depth of nature, or any glimpse of sheer
despair.

Not to be consoled !

What can seem more strange to the shallow?
What can seem more obstinate to the
weak? Not to be consoled is to offend all
swiftly forgetting humanity, most of whose
memories are writ on water.

It is very strange, she seems to one to
enjoy nothing ! ' said Lady Dolly, one morning
to Madame Nelaguine, when Prince Zouroff
had announced at the noonday breakfast that
he had purchased for his wife a famous historical
diamond known in Memoirs and in
European courts as the ' Eoc's Qgg,'' and Vere,
with a brief word of thanks acknowledged the
tidings, her mother thought indignantly, as
though he had brought her a twopenny bunch
of primroses.

It is very strange ! ' repeated Lady Dolly.
*The idea of hearing that she had got the
biggest diamond in all the world, except five,
and receiving the news like that ! Your

brother looked disappointed, I think, annoyed,
didn't sou ? '

If he want ecstasies over a diamond he can
give it to Noisette,' said Madame Nelaguine,
with her little cold smile. ' I think he ought
not to be annoyed that his wife is superior to
Noisette.'

'Was Vera always as cold as that at St.
Petersburg before her child's death ? ' pursued
Lady Dolly, who never liked Madame Nela-
guide's smiles.

Yes ; always the same.'

^ Doesn't society amuse her in the least ? '

'Not in the least. I quite understand why
it does not do so. Without coquetry or ambition
it is impossible to enjoy society much.
Every pretty woman should be a flirt, every
clever woman a politician ; the aim, the animus,
the intrigue, the rivalry that accompany each
of those pursuits are the salt without which the
great dinner were tasteless. A good many
brainless creatures do, it is true, flutter through
society all their lives for the mere pleasure of
fluttering; but that is poor work after all

added Madame l^elaguine, ignoring the pretty
flutterer to whom she was speaking. ' One
needs an aim, just as an angler must have fish
in the stream or he grows weary of whipping it.
Now your Vera will never be a coquette because
her temperament forbids it. She is too
proud, and also men have the misfortune not to
interest her. And I think she will never be a
politician ; at least, she is interested in great
questions, but the small means by which men
strive to accomplish their aims disgust her,
and she will never be a diplomatist. In the
first week she was in Russia she compromised
Sergius seriously at the Imperial Court by
praising a Nihilist novelist to the Empress ! '

Oh, I know ! ' said Lady Dolly, desperately.
She has not two grains of sense. She is
beautiful and distinguished looking. When
you have said that you have said everything
that is to be said. The education she had
with her grandmother made her hopelessly
stupid, actually stupid ! '

She is very far from stupid, pardon me,'
said Madame Nelaguine, with a delicate little

smile. 'But she has not your happy adaptability,
chere madame. It is her misfortune.'

A misfortune, indeed,' said Lady Dolly, a
little sharply, feeling that her superiority was
being despised. ' It is always a misfortune to
be unnatural, and she is unnatural. She takes
no pleasure in anything that delights everyone
else ; she hardly knows serge from sicilienne ;
she has no tact because she does not think it
worth while to have any. She will offend a
king as indifferently as she will change her
dress ; every kind of amusement bores her, she
is made like that. When everybody is laughing
round her she looks grave, and stares like an
owl with her great eyes. Oh, dear me ; to
think she should be my daughter ! Nothing
odder ever could be than that Vera should be
my child.'

'Except that she should be my brother's
wife,' said Madame Nelaguine, drily. Lady
Dolly was silent.

The next day Lady Dolly took advantage
of her husband's escort to leave the Villa
Nelaguine for England ; she went with reluctance,

yet with relief. She was envious of
her daughter, and she was impatient with
her, and, though she told herself again and
again that Yere's destiny had fallen in a
golden paradise, the east wind, that she hated,
moaning through the palms seemed to send
after her homeward a long-drawn despairing
sigh — the sigh of a young life ruined.

Prince Zouroff stayed on in the south,
detained there by the seduction of the gaming-tables,
until the Christmas season was passed ;
then, having won very largely, as very rich
men often do, he left the Riviera for his
handsome hotel in the Avenue du Bois de
Boulogne ; and Madame Nelaguine left it
also.

Like many of their country people they
were true children of Paris, and were seldom
thoroughly content unless they were within
sight of the dome of the Invalides.

He felt he would breathe more freely when
from the windows of the railway carriage he
should see the zinc roofs and shining gilt
cupolas of his one heaven upon earth.

'Another year with only her face to look
at, with its eyes of unending reproach, and I
should have gone mad, or cut her throat,' he
said in a moment of confidence to one of his
confidants and parasites.

They had never been alone one day, indeed ;
troops of guests had always been about them ;
but it had not been Paris, Paris with its consolations,
its charm, and its crowds.

In Paris he could forget completely that he
had ever married, save when it might please
his pride to hear the world tell him that he
had the most beautiful woman in Europe for
his wife.

Can you not sleep ? do not stare so with
your great eyes ! ' said Prince Zouroff angrily
to his wife, as the night train rushed through
the heart of France, and Vere gazed out over
the snow-whitened moonlit country, as the
land and the sky seemed to fly past her.

In another carriage behind her was her
great jewel box, set between two servants,
whose whole duty was to guard it.

But she never thought of her jewels ; she

was thinking of the moth and the star; she
was thinking of the summer morning on the
white clifF of the sea. For she knew that
Correze was in Paris.

It was not any sort of love that moved her,
beyond such lingering charmed fancy as remained
from those few hours' fascination. Buta
great reluctance to see him, a great fear
of seeing him, was in her. What could he
think of her marriage ! And she could never
tell him why she had married thus. He would
think her sold like the rest, and he must be
left to think so.

The express train rushed on through the
cold calm night. With every moment she
drew nearer to him — the man who had bidden
her keep herself ^ unspotted from the world.'

And what is my life,' she thought, ' except
one long pollution ! '

She leaned her white cheek and her fair
head against the window, and gazed out at
the dark flying masses of the clouds ; her
eyes were full of pain, wide opened, lustrous ;
and, waking suddenly and seeing her thus

opposite him, her husband called to her
roughly and irritably with an oath : ' Can you
not sleep ? '

It seemed to her as if she never slept
now. What served her as sleep seemed but a
troubled feverish dull trance, disturbed by
hateful dreams.

It was seven o'clock on the following evening
when they arrived in Paris. Their carriage was
waiting, and she and Madame Nelaguine drove
homeward together, leaving ZourofiP to follow
them. There was a faint light of an aurora
borealis in the sky, and the lamps of the streets
were sparkling in millions ; the weather was
very cold. Their coachman took his way past
the opera-house. There were immense crowds
and long lines of equipages.

In large letters in the strong gaslight it
was easy to read upon the placards.

Faust . . . Breeze.

The opera was about to commence.

Vere shrank back into the depths of the

carriage. Her companion leaned forward and
looked out into the night.

Paris is so fickle ; but there is one sovereign
she never tires of — it is Correze/ said
Madame Nelaguine, with a little laugh, and
Wondered to see the colourless cheek of her
young sister-in-law flush suddenly and then
grow white again.

Have you ever heard Correze sing ? ' she
asked quickly. Vere hesitated.

^ Never in the opera. No.'

Ah ! to be sure, he left Russia suddenly
last winter ; left as you entered it,' said
Madame Nelaguine, musing, and with a quick
side-glance.

Vere was silent.

The carriage rolled on, and passed into
the courtyard of the Hotel Zouroff between
the gilded iron gates, at the instant when the
applause of Paris welcomed upon the stage
of its opera its public favourite.

The house was grand, gorgeous, brilliant ;
adorned in the taste of the Second Empire, to
which it belonged ; glittering and over-laden,

superb yet meretricious. The lines of servants
were bowing low; the gilded cashiers were
glowing with light, there were masses of camellias
and azaleas, beautiful and scentless,
and heavy odours of burnt pastilles on the
heated air.

Yere passed up the wide staircase slowly,
and the hues of its scarlet carpeting seemed
like fire to her tired eyes.

She changed her prison-house often, anc
each one had been made more splendid than
the last, but each in its turn was no less a
prison ; and its gilding made it but the more
dreary and the more oppressive to her.

You will excuse me, I am tired,' she murmured
to her sister-in-law, who was to be hei
guest, and she went into her own bedchamber
and shut herself in, shutting out even hei
maid from her solitude.

Through the curtained windows there cama
low muffled sound ; the sound of the great
night-world of that Paris to which she hac
come, heralded for her beauty by a thousand
tongues.

Why could she not be happy ? '

She dropped on her knees by her bed of
white satin, embroiled with garlanded roses,
and let her head fall on her arms, and wept
bitterly.

In the opera-house the curtain had risen,
and the realisation of all he had lost was
dawning upon the vision of Faust.

The voice of her husband came to her
through the door.

Make your toilette rapidly,' he said ; ' we
will dine quickly ; there will be time to show
yourself at the opera.'

Vere started and rose to her feet.

I am very tired ; the journey was long.'

We will not stay,' answered Prince Zouroff.
But you will show yourself. Dress quickly.'

Would not another night '

Ma chere, do not dispute. I am not used
to it.'

The words were slight, but the accent gave
them a cold and hard command, to which she
had grown accustomed.

VOL. II. D

She said nothing more, but let her maid
enter by an inner door.

The tears were wet on her lashes, and her
mouth still quivered. The woman saw and
pitied her, but with some contempt.

Why do you lament like that ? ' the woman
thought ; ' why not amuse yourself ? '

Her maids were used to the caprices of
Prince ZourofP, which made his wife's toilette a
thing which must be accomplished to perfection
in almost a moment of time. A very young and
lovely woman, also, can be more easily adorned
than one who needs a thousand artificial aids.
They dressed her very rapidly in white velvet,
setting some sapphires and diamonds in her
bright hair.

Give me that necklace,' she said, pointing
to one of the partitions in one of the open jewel
cases ; it was the necklace of the moth and the
star.

In ten minutes she descended to dinner.
She and her husband were alone. Madame
Nelaguine had gone to bed fatigued.

He ate little, but drank much, though one

of the finest artists of the Paris kitchens
had done his best to tempt his taste with the
rarest and most delicate combination.

You do not seem to have much appetite,'
he said, after a little while. ' We may as well
go. You look very well now.'

He looked at her narrowly.

Fatigue conquered, and emotion subdued,
had given an unusual brilliancy to her eyes, an
unusual flush to her cheeks. The white velvet
was scarcely whiter than her skin ; about her
beautiful throat the moth trembled between the
flame and the star.

Have you followed my advice and put some
rouge ? ' he asked suddenly.

Vere answered simply : * No.'

Paris will say that you are handsomer than
any of the others,' he said carelessly. ' Let
us go.'

Vere's cheeks flushed more deeply as she
rose in obedience. She knew that he was
thinking of all the other women whom Paris
had associated with his name.

She drew about her a cloak of white feathers,

D 2

and went to her carriage. Her heart was sick,
yet it beat fast. She had learned to be quite
still, and to show nothing that she felt under
all pain ; and this emotion was scarcely pain,
this sense that so soon the voice of Correze
would reach her ear.

She was very tired ; all the night before she
had not slept ; the fatigue and feverishness of
the long unbroken journey were upon her,
making her temples throb, her head swim, her
limbs feel light as air. But the excitement of
one idea sustained her, and made her pulses
quicken with fictitious strength: so soon she
would hear the voice of Correze.

A vague dread, a sense of apprehension that
she could not have explained, were upon her ;
yet a delighted expectation came over her also,
and was sweeter than any feeling that had ever
been possible to her since her marriage.

As their carriage passed through the streets,
her husband smoked a cigarette, and did not
speak at all. She was thankful for the silence,
though she fancied in it he must hear the loud
fast beating of her heart.

It was ten o'clock when they reached the
opera-house. Her husband gave her his arm,
and they passed through the vestibule and
passage, and up the staircase to that door
which at the commencement of the season had
been allotted to the name of Prince Zouroff.

The house was hushed; the music, which
has all the ecstasy and the mystery of human
passion in it, thrilled through the stillness.
Her husband took her through the corridor
into their box, which was next that which
had once been the empress's. The vast circle
of light seemed to whirl before her eyes.

Vere entered as though she were walking in
her sleep, and sat down.

On the stage there were standing alone
Marguerite and Faust.

The lights fell full upon the classic profile
of Correze, and his eyelids were drooped, as he
stood gazing on the maiden who knelt at his
feet. The costume he wore showed his graceful
form to its greatest advantage, and the melancholy
of wistful passion that was expressed on
his face at that moment made his beauty

of feature more impressive. His voice was
silent at the moment when she saw him
thus once more, but his attitude was a poem,
his face was the face that she had seen by sunlight
where the sweetbread sheltered the thrush.

Not for her was he Faust, not for her was
he the public idol of Paris. He was the Saint
Eaphael of the Norman seashore. She sat like
one spellbound gazing at the stage.

Then Correze raised his head, his lips parted,
and uttered the

Tn quoi, anime !
Che t' abandon.

It thrilled through the house, that exquisite
and mysterious music of the human voice,
seeming to bring with it the echo of a heaven
for ever lost.

Women, indifferent to all else, would weep
when they heard the voice of Correze.

Vere's heart stood still ; then seemed to leap
in her breast as with a throb of new warm life.
Unforgotten, unchanged, unlike any other ever
heard on earth, this perfect voice fell on her
ear again, and held her entranced with its

harmony. The ear has its ecstasy as have other
senses, and this ecstasy for the moment held in
suspense all other emotion, all other memory.

She sat quite motionless, leaning her cheek
upon her hand. When he sang, she only then
seemed herself to live ; when his voice ceased,
she seemed to lose hold upon existence, and
the great world of light around her seemed
empty and mute.

Many eyes were turning on her, many
tongues were whispering of her, but she was
unconscious of them. Her husband, glancing
at her, thought that no other woman would have
been so indifferent to the stare of Paris as she
was ; he did not know that she was insensible
of it; he only saw that she had grown very
pale again, and was annoyed, fearing that her
entry would not be the brilliant success that he
desired it to be.

Perhaps she was too tired to come here,
he thought with some impatience.

But Paris was looking at her in her white
velvet, which was like the snows she had quitted,
and was finding her lovely beyond compare.

and worthy of the wild rumours of adoration
that had come before her from the north.

The opera, meanwhile, went on its course ;
the scenes changed, the third act ended, the
curtain fell, the theatre resounded with the
polite applause of a cultured city.

She seemed to awake as from a dream.
The door had opened, and her husband was
presenting some great persons to her.

You have eclipsed even Correze, Princess,'
said one of these. ' In looking at you, Paris
forgot for once to listen to its nightingale. It
was fortunate for him, since he sung half a
note false.'

Since you are so tired we will go,' said her
husband, when the fourth act was over ; when
a score of great men had bowed themselves in
and out of her box, and the glasses of the
whole house had been levelled at the Russian
beauty, as they termed her.

I am not so very tired now ! ' she said
wistfully.

She longed to hear that voice of Faust
as she had never longed for anything.

If you are not tired you are capricious, ma
chere,' said 'lev husband, with a laugh. * I
brought you here that they might see you;
they have seen you ; now I am going to the
club. Come.'

He wrapped her white feathery mantle
round her, as though it were snow that covered
her, and took her away from the theatre as the
curtain rose.

He left her to go homeward alone, and
went himself to the Rue Scribe.

She was thankful.

You sang false, Correze ! ' said mocking
voices of women gaily round him in the foyer.
He was so eminent, so perfect, so felicitously
at the apex of his triumph and of art, that a
momentary failure could be made a jest of
without fear.

Pardieu ! ' said Correze, with a shrug of
his shoulders. ' Pardieu ! do you suppose I
did not know it. A fly flew in my throat. I
suppose it will be in all the papers tomorrow.
That is the sweet side of fame.'

He shook himself free of his tormentors.

and went to his brougham as soon as his dress
was changed. It was only one o'clock, and he,
had all Paris ready to amuse him.

But he felt out of tone and out of temper
with all Paris ; another half-note false and
Paris would hiss him — even him.

He went home to his house in the Avenue
Marigny, and sent his coachman away.

The beast ! ' he said to himself, as he
entered his chamber ; he was thinking of
Sergius ZouroflP. He threw himself down in
an easy chair, and sat alone lost in thought ;
^vln^st a score of supper-tables were the duller
for his absence, and more than one woman's
heart ached, or passion fretted, at it.

'Who would have thought the sight of
her would have moved me so ! ' he said to himself
in self-scorn. ' A false note ! — I ! '

In the bitter February weather all aristocratic
Paris felt the gayer, because the vast Hotel
Zouroff, in the Avenue du Bois de Boulogne, had
its scarlet-clad suisse leaning on his gold-headed
staff at its portals, and its tribes of liveried and
liveried lacqueys languishing in its halls and
ante-rooms ; since these signs showed that the
Prince and Princess were en ville, and that the
renowned beauty of the Winter Palace had
brought her loveliness and her diamonds to the
capital of the world.

The Hotel Zouroff, under Nadine Nelaguine,
had been always one of those grand foreign

houses at which all great people meet 5 a noble
terra nullius in which all political differences
were obliterated, and all that was either wellborn
or well received met, and the Empire
touched the Faubourg, and the Orleans princes
brushed the marshals of the Republic. The
Hotel Zouroff had never been very exclusive,
but it had always been very brilliant. Under
the young Princess, Paris saw that it was likely
to be much more exclusive, and perhaps in
proportion less entertaining. There was that
in the serene simplicity, the proud serious
grace of the new mistress of it, which rallied
to her the old regime and scared away the
new.

'You should have been born a hundred
years ago,' said her husband with some impatience
to her. ' You would make the house
the Hotel Eambouillet.'

'I do not care for the stories of the
"Figaro," at my dinner-table, and I do
not care to see the romp of the cotillon in
my ball-room; but it is your house, it must
be ordered as you please,' she answered

him; and she let Madame Nelaguine take
the reins of social government, and held
herself aloof.

But though she effaced herself as much
as possible, that tall slender proud figure,
with the grave colourless face that was so
cold and yet so innocent, had an effect that
was not to be defined, yet not to be resisted,
as she received the guests of the Hotel
Zouroff ; and the entertainments there, though
they gained in simplicity and dignity, lost
in entrain, Vere was not suited to her
century.

Houses take their atmosphere from those
who live in them, and even the Hotel Zouroff,
despite its traditions and its epoch, despite its
excess of magnificence and its follies of expenditure,
yet had a fresher and a purer air
since the life of its new princess had come
into it.

You have married a young saint, and the
house feels already like a sacristy,' said the
Duchesse de Sonnaz to Sergius Zouroff, ' (7a
nous ohsede, mon vieux ! '

That was the feeling of society.

She was exquisitely lovely ; she had a great
distinction, she knew a great deal and though
she spoke seldom, spoke well, but she was
obstante ; she made them feel as if they were
in church.

Yet Paris spoke of nothing for the moment
but of the Princess Zouroff. Reigning
beauties were for the moment all dethroned,
and, as Paris had for years talked of his
racers, his mistresses, his play, and his
vices, so it now talked of Sergius ZourofP's
wife.

That fair, grave, colourless face, so innocent
yet so proud, so childlike yet so thoughtful,
with its musing eyes and its arched mouth,
became the theme of artists, the adoration
of dandies, the despair of women. As a
maiden she would have been called lovely,
but too cold, and passed over. Married,
she had that position which adorns as
diamonds adorn, and that charm as of forbidden
fruit, which piques the sated palate
of mankind.

She was the event of the year.

Her husband was not surprised either at
her fame or her failure.

He had foreseen both after the first week
of his marriage. ' She will be the rage for a
season, for her face and her form he said to
himself. ' Then they will find her entered and
stupid, and turn to some one else.' He
honestly thought her stupid.

She knew Greek and Latin and all that, but
of the things that make a woman brilliant
she knew nothing.

Life seemed to Vere noisy, tedious, glaring,
beyond conception; she seemed, to herself,
always to be en scene; always to be being
dressed and being undressed for some fresh
spectacle; always to be surrounded with flatterers,
and to be destitute of friends, never to
be alone. It seemed to her wonderful that
people who could rule their own lives chose
incessant fatigue and called it pleasure. She
understood it in nothing. That her mother,
after twenty years of it, could yet pursue this
life with excitement and preference seemed to

her so strange that it made her shudder. Ther
was not an hour for thought, scarcely a moment!
for prayer. She was very young, and she rose
early while the world was still sleeping, and
tried so to gain some little time for her old
habits, her old tastes, her old studies, but it
was very difficult ; she seemed to grow dizzy,
tired, useless. ' It was what I was sold to be,'
she used to think bitterly. Her husband was
fastidious as to her appearance, and inexorable
as to her perpetual display of herself; for the
rest he said nothing to her, unless it were to
sharply reprove her for some oblivion of some
trifle in etiquette, some unconscious transgression
of the innumerable unwritten laws o\
society.

In the midst of the most brilliant circle o
Europe, Vere was as lonely as any captured bird
She would have been glad of a friend, but sh(
was shy and proud; women were envious of
her, and men were afraid of her. She was not
like her world or her time. She was beautiful,
but no one would ever have dreamed of classing
her with ' the beauties ' made by princely

praise and public portraiture. She was as
unlike them as the beaut' of perfect statuary
is unlike the Lilith and the Vienne of
modern painting.

Sometimes her husband was proud of that,
sometimes he was annoyed at it. Soon he felt
neither pride nor annoyance, but grew indifferent.


Society noticed that she seldom smiled.
When a smile did come upon her face, it was
as cold as the moonbeam that flits bright and
brief across a landscape on a cloudy night.
Very close observers saw that it was not coldness,
but a melancholy too profound for her
years that had robbed the light from her
thoughtful eyes ; but close observers in society
are not numerous, and her world in
general believed her incapable of any emotion,
or any sentiment, save that of a great
pride.

They did not know that in the stead of any
pride what weighed on her night and day was
the bitterness of humiliation — humiliation they
would never have understood — with which

VOL. II. E

no one would have sympathised; a shame
that made her sap to herself, when she went to
her tribune at Chantilly, to see her husband's
horses run, 'My place should be apart therewith
those lost women; what am I better than
they?'

All the horror of the sin of the world had
fallen suddenly on her ignorance and innocence
as an avalanche may fall on a young chamois ;
the knowledge of it oppressed her, and made a
great disgust stay always with her as her
hourly burden.

She despised herself, and there is no shame
more 1 utter to endure.

You are unreasonable, my child,' said her
sister-in-law, who, in a cold way, was attached
to her, and did pity her. 'Any other woman
as young as yourself would be happy. My
brother is not your ideal. No ; that was not
to be expected or hoped for ; but he leaves you
your own way ; he is not a tyrant, he lets you
enjoy yourself as you may please to do; he
never controls your purse or your caprice.
Believe me, my love, that, as the world goes,

this is as nearly happiness as can be found in
marriage — to have plenty of money and to be
let alone. You want happiness, I know, but I
doubt very much if happiness is really existent
anywhere on earth, unless you can get it out
of social success and the discomfiture of rivals,
as most fortunate women do. I think you
are unreasonable. You are not offended?
No ? '

Perhaps I am unreasonable,' assented
Vere.

She never spoke of herself. Her lips had
been shut on the day that she had accepted
the hand of Sergius ZourofP, and she kept them
closed.

She would have seemed unreasonable to
everyone, as to Princess ISTelaguine, had she
done so.

Why could she not be happy ?

"With youth, a lovely face and form, the
great world her own, and her riches boundless,
why could she not be happy, or, at the
least, amused and flattered ?

Amusement and flattery console most women,

but they had failed as yet to console her. By
example or by precept everyone about her made
her feel that they should do so. Upon the
danger of the teaching neither her husband nor
society ever reflected.

Young lives are tossed upon the stream of
the world, like rose-leaves on a fast-running
river, and the rose-leaves are blamed if the
river be too strong and too swift for them,
and they perish. It is the fault of the rose-leaves.


When she thought that this life must endure
all her life, she felt a despair that numbed her,
as frost kills a flower. To the very young, life
looks so long.

To Sergius Zourofif innocence was nothing
more than the virgin bloom of a slave had been
to his father — a thing to be destroyed for an
owner's diversion.

It amused him to lower her, morally and
physically, and he cast all the naked truths of
human vices before her shrinking mind, as he
made her body tremble at his touch. It was a
diversion, whilst the effect was novel. Like

many another man, he never asked himself how
the fidelity and the chastity that he still expected
to have preserved for him, would survive
his own work of destruction. He never remembered
that as you sow so you may reap.
Nor if he had remembered would he have cared.
Toute femme trice was engraved on his conviction
as a certain doctrine. The purity and the
simplicity, and the serious sense of right and
wrong that he discovered in Vere bewildered
him, and half-awed, half-irritated him. But
that these would last after contact with the
world, he never for a moment believed, and
he quickly ceased to regard or to respect
them.

He knew very well that his wife and his
belles petites were creatures so dissimilar that it
seemed scarcely possible that the same laws of
nature had created and sustained them, the
same humanity claimed them. He knew that
they were as unlike as the dove and the snake,
as the rose and the nightshade, but he treated
them both the same.

There was a woman who was seen on the

Bois who drove with white Spanish nrnles hung
about with Spanish trappings, and had a little
mulatto boy behind her dressed in scarlet. This
eccentric person was speedily celebrated in
Paris. She was handsome in a very dark,
full-lipped, almond eyed, mulattoes fashion ;
she got the name of Casse-une-Croute, and no
one ever heard or cared whether she ever had
had any other. Casse-une-Croute, who was a
mustang from over the seas, had made her
debut modestly with a banker, but she had
soon blazed into that splendour in which
bankers, unless they are Rothschild, are
despised. Prince Zouroff had seen the white
mules, and been struck with them. 
had an apotheosis.

There was an actress who was called Noisette;
she was very handsome too, in a red and white
way, like Rubens's women ; she too drove herself,
but drove a mail-phaeton and very high-stepping
English horses ; she drank only Burgundy,
but plenty of it ; she had a hotel entre
cour et jar din ; on the stage she was very vulgar
but she had dn chien and wonderful drolleries

of expression. Prince Zouroff did not care
even to look at her, but she was the fashion,
and he had taken her away from his most
intimate friend ; so, for years, he let her eat
his roubles as a mouse eats rice, and never
could prevail on his vanity to break with her,
lest men should think she had broken with
him.

In that unexplainable, instinctive way in
which women of quick perceptions come to
know things that no one ever tells them, and
which is never definitely put before them in
words. Princess Zouroff became gradually aware
that Noisette and Casse-une-Croute were both
the property of her husband. The white
mules or the mail phaeton crossed her own
carriage-horses a dozen times a week in the
Champs Elysees, and she looked away not to
see those women, and said in the bitter humiliation
of her heart, ' What am I better than
either of them ! ' When either of them saw
her, Casse-une-Croute said, ' Vela la 'petite ! '
contemptuously. Noisette said, ' Je mangerai
meme ses diamants a elle.'

\

Sergius/ said Nadine Nelaguine one
night, ' in that wife that you neglect for your
creatures you have a pearl of price.'

And I am one of the swine, and best live
with my kind,' said her brother savagely,
because he was ashamed of himself, and
angered with all his ways of life, yet knew that
he would no more change them than will swine
change theirs.

You have married a young saint. It is
infinitely droll ! ' said the Duchesse de Sonnaz,
who was always called by her society Madame
Jeanne, one day to Sergius Zouroff, as he sat
with her in her boudoir that was full of chin-miseries,
and Indian wares, and Persian potteries.


Jeanne de Sonnaz was a woman of thirty-three
years old, and had been one of the few
really great ladies who had condescended to
accept the Second Empire. Born of the splendid
Mai son de Merilhac, and married to the head
of the scarce less ancient Maison de Sonnaz,
she belonged, root and branch, to the vieille
souche, and her people all went annually to bow

i the knee at Frohsdorf. But Mdme. Jeanne,
wedded at sixteen to a man who was wax in
her hands, had no fancy for sacrifice and seclusion
for the sake of a shadow and a lily. She was
a woman who loved admiration and who loved
display. She had condescended to accept the
Second Empire, because it was the millennium
of these her twin passions. She had known
that it would not last, but she had enjoyed it
while it did. ' C^est un thus qui va s^ecldter,' she
had always said cheerfully, but meanwhile she
had danced on the shell till it exploded, and
now danced on its debris.

The Duchesse de Sonnaz dressed better
than any living being ; was charming, without
having a good feature in her face except
her eyes, and was admired where Helen or
Venus might have been overlooked. She was
not very clever, but she was very malicious,
which is more successful with society, and
very violent, which is more successful with
lovers. She had the power of being very
agreeable. To the young Princess Zouroff she
made herself even unusually so.

Yere did not notice that even a polite
society could not help a smile when it saw
them together.

'You have married a young saint; it is
very droll the duchesse now said for the
twentieth time to ZourofP. ' But do you
know that I like her ? Is not that very droll
too?'

It is very fortunate for me said Zouroff
drily, wondering if she were telling him a lie,
and, if so, why she told one.

She was not lying ; though, when she had
first heard of his intended marriage, she had
been beside herself with rage, and had even
rung violently for them to send her husband to
her that she might cry aloud to him, ' you
never revenge yourself, but you must and you
shall revenge me.' Fortunately for the peace
of Europe her husband was at the club, and by
the time he had returned thence she had
thought better of it.

What will you do with a saint ? ' she continued
now. * It is not a thing for you. It
must be like that White Swan in '' Lohengrin." '

'She is stupid said Zouroff; 'but she is
very honest.'

How amusing a combination ! '
I do not see much of her,' Zouroff added
with an air of fatigue. ' I think she will be
always the same. She does not adapt her
self. It is a pity her children should not live.
i She is the sort of woman to be a devoted
mother.'

'Quel beau role! and she is not eighteen
yet,' said Madame de Sonnaz with amuse
ment.

It is what we marry good women for,' he
said somewhat gloomily. 'They never divert
one; every one knows that. Elles ne savent
pas s'encanailler.'

Jeanne de Sonnaz laughed again, but her
face had an angry irony in it.

Yes : nous nous encanaillons ; that is our
charm. A beautiful compliment. But it is
true. It is the charm of our novels, of our
theatres, of our epoch. Le temps nous enfant.
Things manage themselves drolly. A manlike
you gets a young angel ; and an honest.

stupid, innocent soul like mj poor Paul gets
me.'

Zouroff offered her no compliment and no
contradiction ; he was sitting gloomily amidst
the chinoiseries and porcelains, but their intercourse
had long passed the stage at which
flattery is needful. He was glad for sake of
peace that she was not an enemy of Vere's ;
but he was annoyed to hear her praise his wife.
Why did everyone regard the girl as sacrificed P
It offended and annoyed him. She had everything
that she could want. Hundreds of
women would have asked no more admirable
fate than was hers.

She is of the old type ; the old type pure
are proud,' his friend pursued, unheeding his
silence. ' We want to see it now and then. She
would go grandly to the guillotine, but she
will never understand her own times, and she
will always have a contempt for them. She
has dignity; we have not a scrap, we have
forgotten what it was like; we go into a
passion at the amount of our bills; we play
and never i^ay ; wo smolce and we wrangle ;

we have cafe-singers who teach us slang
songs ; we laugh loud, much too loud ; we
intrigue vulgarly, and, when we are found
out, we scuffle, which is more vulgar still;
we inspire nothing unless now and then a
bad war or a disastrous speculation; we
live showily, noisily, meanly, gaudily. You
have said, " On salt s'encanailler.*^ Well,
your wife is not like us. You should be
thankful.'

All the same,' said Zouroff, with a shrug of
his shoulders ; ' she is not amusing.'

Oh, that is another affair. Even if
she were, I do not believe you would go to
your wife to be amused. I think you are
simply discontented with her because she
is not somebody else's wife. If she were
fast and frivolous you would be angry at
that.'

She is certainly not fast or frivolous ! '

'Perhaps my friend — after all — it is only
that she is not happy.'

It was the one little poison-tipped arrow
that she could not help speeding against the

man whose marriage had been an insult to a
friendship ' of many years' duration.

'If she were not a fool she would be
perfectly happy,' he answered petulantly, and
with a frown.

'Or if she understood compensations as we
understand them,' said Mdme. de Sonnaz,
lighting a cigarette. ' Perhaps she never will
understand them. Or, perhaps, on the other
hand, some day she will.'

You plaisantez, madame' said Sergius
Zouroff with a growl, as the duchess laughed.

A sullen resentment rose in him against
Vere. He had meant to forget her, once
married to her. The marriage had been a
caprice ; he had been moved to a sudden
passion that had been heightened by her
aversion and her reluctance ; she did as well
as another to bear children and grace his
name ; he had never meant to make a burden
of her, and now everyone had agreed to speaks
her as a martyr to her position.

Her position ! he thought; what woman in
Europe would not have been happy in it ?

Vere herself might have fanciful regrets
I and fantastic sentiments ; that he could admit ;
she was a child, and had odd thoughts and
I tastes; but he resented the pits for her —
pity for her as being his — that spoke by the
cynical lips of his sister and Jeanne de
Sonnaz.

He began almost to wish that she would be
brought to understand the necessity de
s'encanailler. There are times when the very
purity of a woman annoys and oppresses a man
-even when she is his wife ; perhaps most of
all when she is so.

If she had disobeyed him or had any fault
against him, he could still have found some
pleasure in tyranny over her; but she never
rebelled, she never opposed him. Obedience
was all she had to give him, and she gave it
in all loyalty; her grandmother had reared
her in old-world ideas of duty that she found
utterly out of place in the day she lived in, yet
isle clung to them as she clung to her belief
in heaven.
i Her whole nature recoiled from the man

to whom she owed obedience, yet she
knew obedience was his due, and she
gave it. Although he would have borne
with nothing less, yet this passive submission
had begun to irritate him ; his commands
were caprices, wilful, changeable, and
unreasonable. But as they were always
obeyed, it ceased to be any amusement to
impose them.

He began to think that she was merely
stupid.

He would have believed that she was
quite stupid, and nothing else, but for a
certain look in her eyes now and then when
she spoke, a certain gesture that occasionally
escaped her of utter contempt and weariness.
Then he caught sight for a moment of depths
in Vere's nature that he did not fathom,
of possibilities in her character that he did
not take into consideration.

Had she been any other man's wife, the
contradiction would have attracted him, and he
would have studied her temper and her tastes.



As it was lie only felt some irritation, and
some ennui because his wife was not like his
world.

She is not amusing, and she is not grateful,'
he would say; and each day he saw less
of her and left her to shape her own Hfe as
she chose.

VOL. II.

Chapter XIV.

In the chilly spring weather, Lady Dolly, sitting
on one chair with her pretty little feet on another
chair, was at Birmingham watching the
opening match of the year and saying to her
friend Lady Stoat of Stichley; 'Oh my dear,
yes, it is so sad, but yon know my sweet child
never was quite like other people; never will
be I am afraid. And she never did care for me.
It was all that horrid old woman, who brought
her up so strangely, and divided entirely from
me in every way, and made a perfect Methodist
of her, really a Methodist ! If Vere were not
so exquisitely pretty she would be too ridiculous.
As she is so handsome, men don't abuse

her so much, as they would if she were only
just nice-looking. But she is very very odd;
and it is so horrible to be odd ? I would really
sooner have her ugly. She is so odd. Never
would speak to me even of the birth and death
of her baby. Could you believe it ? Not a
word ! not a word ! What would you feel if
Gwendolen. . . . Goodness ! the Duke and
Fred have tied. Is it true, Colonel Rochford ?
Yes? Thanks. A pencil, one moment;
thanks. Ah, you never bet, Adine, do you ?
But, really, pigeon-shooting's very stupid if
you don't. Talking of bets. Colonel Rochford,
try and get " two monkeys " for me on
Tambour-Battant tomorrow, will you? I've
been told a thing about his trainer ; it will be
quite safe, quite. As I was saying, dear, she
never would speak to me about that poor little
lost cherub. Was it not sad — terrible? Of
course she will have plenty of others ; but still,
never to sorrow for it at all — so unnatural!
Zouroff felt it much more ; he has grown very
nice, really very nice. Ah ! that bird has got
away ; the Lords will lose, I am afraid, after

F 2

all. Ah, my dear Lesterel, how are you?
What are they saying of my child in your
Paris?'

The Marquis de Lesterel, secretary of legation,
bowed smiling.

Madame la Princesse has turned the head
of *"' tout Paris." It was too cruel of you,
madame; had you not already done mischief
enough to men that you must distract them
with such loveliness in your daughter ? '

'All that is charming, and goes for nothing,'
said Lady Dolly good-humouredly. *I
know Vera is handsome, but does she take ?
Est-ce qu'elle a du charme? That is much
more.'

But certainly ! ' rejoined the French marquis
with much emphasis ; ' she is very cold, it
is true, which leaves us all lamenting ; and
nothing, or very little at least, seems to interest
her.'

Precisely what I expected ! ' said Lady
Dolly despairingly . ' Then she has not du
charme, Nobody has who is not amused easily
and amused often.'

Pardon ! ' said the marquis. ' There is
charme and charme. There is that of the easily-accessible
and of the inaccessible, of the rosebud
and of the edelweiss.'

Does she make many friends there ? ' she
continued, pursuing her inquiries, curiosity
masked as maternal interest. 'Many women-friends,
I mean ; I am so afraid Yera does not
like women much, and there is nothing that
looks so unamiable.'

'It would be impossible to suspect the
Princess of amiability,' said the marquis
quickly. 'One look at that serene and noble
countenance '

Very nice, very pretty ; but Vere can be
unamiable,' said her mother tartly. ' Do tell
me, is there any women she takes to at all '?
Anyone she seems to like much.'

(' Anybody she is likely to tell about me ? '
she was thinking in the apprehension of her
heart.)

Madame Nelaguine ' — began the young
man.

Oh her sister-in-law ! ' said Lady Dolly.

Yes, I believe she does like that horrid
woman. I always hated Nadine myself —
such an ordering sharp creature, and such
a tongue ! Of course I know the Nelaguine

is never out of their house ; but is there anybody
else ? '

A little smile came on the face of the
Parisian.

The Princess is often with Madame de
Sonnaz. Madame Jeanne admires her very
much.'

Lady Dolly stared a minute, and then
laughed ; and Lady Stoat even smiled discreetly.


^I wonder what that is fors murmured
Lady Dolly vaguely, and, in a whisper to Lady
Stoat, she added, ^ She must mean mischief;
she always means mischief; she took
his marriage too quietly not to avenge
herself.'

People forget nowadays ; I don't think
they revenge,' said Lady Stoat consolingly.

When did you see my poor darling last ? '
asked Lady Dolly aloud.

At three o'clock last night, madame, at the
Elysee. She looked like a Greek poet's dream
draped by Worth.'

How very imaginative ! ' said Lady Dolly,
a little jealously. * How could poor dear Worth
dress a dream? That would tax even his
powers ! I hope she goes down to Turenne
and chats with him quietly ; that is the only
way to get him to give his mind to anything
really good. But she never cares about that
sort of thing ; never ! '

The Princess Zouroff knows well,' said the
Marquis de Lesterel, with some malice and more
ardour, ' that let her drape herself in what she
might, were it sackcloth and ashes, she would
be lovelier in it than any other woman ever
was on earth — except her mother,' he added
with a chivalrous bow.

What a horrid thing it is to be anybody's
mother! and how old it makes one feel—
"shunt" it as one may ! ' thought Lady Dolly
as she laughed and answered, ' You are actually
in love with her, marquis ! Pray remember
that I am her mother, and that she has not

been married much more than a year. I am
very delighted that she does please in Paris.
It is her home, really her home. They will goto
Petersburg once in ten years, but Paris will
see them every year of their lives ; Zouroff can
be scarcely said to exist out of it. I am so
very very sorry the boy died; it just lived to
breathe and be baptised, you know; named
after the Czar. So sad ! — oh, so sad ! Who is
that shooting now ? Rely ? Ah-heh ! The
bird is inside the palings, isn't it ? Oh ! that is
superb ! Just inside ! — only just ! '

And Lady Dolly scribbled again in a tiny
betting-book, bound in oxidized silver, that had
cost fifty guineas in Bond Street.

Lady Dolly was very fond of betting. As
she practised it, it was both simple and
agreeable. She was always paid, and never
paid.

The ladies who pursue the art on these
simplified principles are numerous, and find it
profitable.

When Colonel Rochford, a handsome young
man in the Rifles, tried the next day to get her

five hundred ' on,' at Newmarket, the Ring was
prudent ; it would take it in his name, not in
hers.

But the men of her world could not be
as prudent — and as rude— as the Ring was.
Besides, Lady Dorothy Vanderdecken was
still a very pretty woman, with charming little
tricks of manner and a cultured sagacious
coquetry that was hard to resist; and she
was very good company too at a little dinner
at the Orleans Club, when the nightingales
sang, or tete-astute in her fan-lined octagon
boudoir.

Lady Dolly did not see much of her daughter.
Lady Dolly had taken seriously to London.
London had got so much nicer, she said, so
much less starchy ; so much more amusing ; it
was quite wonderful how London had improved
since polo and pigeon-shooting had opened its
mind. Sundays were great fun in London now,
and all that old nonsense about being so very
particular had quite gone out. London people,
the very best of them, always seemed, somehow
or other — what should one say? — provincial,

\

after Paris. Yes, provincial ; but still London
was very nice, and Lady Dorothy Yanderdecken
was quite a great person in it ; she had always
managed so well that nobody ever had talked
about her.

'It is so horrid to be talked about, you
know,' she used to say ; ' and, after all, so silly
to get talked about. You can do just as you
like if you are only careful to do the right
things at the right time and be seen about
with the right people. I am always so
angry with those stupid women that are compromised;
it is quite too dreadfully foolish
of them, because, you know, really, nobody
need be. People are always nice if one is
nice to them.'

So, from New Year to Midsummer she was
in the house in Chesham Place, which she
made quite charming with all sorts of old
Italian things and the sombre and stately
Cinque Cento, effectively, if barbarously, mixed
up with all the extravagancies of modern upholstery.
Lady Dolly's house, under the combination
of millinery and medisevalism, was too

perfect, everybody said ; and she had a new
friend in her Sicilian attached to the Italian
Legation, who helped her a great deal with his
good taste, and sent her things over from his
grim old castles in the Carmina ; and it was a
new toy and amused her ; and her fancy-dress
frisks, and her musical breakfasts, were great
successes ; and, on the whole. Lady Dolly had
grown very popular. As for Mr. Vanderdecken,
he was always stingy and a bear, but he knew
how to behave. He represented a remote and
peaceable borough, which he had bought as his
wife bought a poodle or a piece of lodge tendre ;
he snored decorously on the benches of St.
Stephens, and went to ministerial dinners, and
did other duties of a rich man's life ; and, for
the rest of his time, was absorbed in those
foreign speculations and gigantic loans which
constituted his business, and took him to Java,
or Japan, or Jupiter so often. He was large,
ugly, solemn, but he did extremely well in his
place, which was an unobtrusive one, like the
great Japanese bonze who sat cross-legged in
the hall. What he thought no one knew ; he

was as mute on the subject of his opinions
as the bonze was. In the new order of
fashionable marriage a silence that must
never be broken is the part allotted to the
husband ; and the only part he is expected to
take.

On the whole Lady Dolly was very contented.
Now and then Jura would give her a
sombre glance, or Zouroff a grim smile, that
recalled a time to her when she had been on the
very brink of the precipice, on the very edge of
the outer darkness, and the recollection made
her quite sick for the moment. But the qualm
soon passed. She was quite safe now, and she
had learned wisdom. She knew how to be ' so
naughty and so nice ' in the way that society
in London likes, and never punishes. She had
been very silly sometimes, but she was never
silly now, and meant to never be silly any more.
She tempered roulette with ritualism, and
always went to St. Margaret's church in the
morning of a Sunday, if she dined down at the
Orleans or at old Kindle's in the evening.
She had had a great ^ scare,' and the peril and

the fright of it had sobered her and shown her
the way she should go.

For Lady Dolly was always very careful of
appearances ; she had no patience with people
who were not. ' It is such very bad form to
make people talk she would always say ; ' and
it is so easy to stop their mouths.'

Lady Dolly liked to go to court, to be
intimate with the best people, to dine at royal
tables, and to ' be in the swim ' altogether.
Everybody knew she was a naughty little
woman, but she had never been on the debateable
land; she had never been one of the
paniers a quinze sons;' she had never been
coldly looked on by anybody. She never let
Jack,' or anybody who preceded or succeeded
Jack,' get her into trouble. She liked to go
everywhere, and she knew that, if people
once begin to talk, you may very soon go
nowhere.

She was not very wise in anything else, but
she was very wise in knowing her own interests.
Frightened and sobered, she had said to herself
that it was a horrible thing to get any scandal

about you; to fall out of society; to have to
content yourself with third-rate drawing-rooms;
to have to take your gaieties in obscure continental
towns; to reign still, but only reign over
a lot of shady dubious declare people, some
with titles and some without, but all "^ nowhere'
in the great race. It was a horrible thing; and
she vowed to herself that never, never, never,
should it be her fate.

So she took seriously to the big house in
Chesham Place, and her religion became one
of the prettiest trifles in all the town.

With her brougham full of hothouse flowers,
going to the Children's Hospital, or shutting
herself up and wearing black all Holy Week,
she was a most edifying study. She maintained
some orphans at the Princess Mary's pet home,
and she was never absent if Stafford House had
a new charitable craze. She did not go into
extremes, for she had very good taste ; but only
said very innocently, ' Oh, all these things are
second nature to me, you know ; you know
my poor Vere was a clergyman.'

If she did sing naughty little songs after

dinner on the lawn at the Orleans ; if the
Sicilian attache were always rearranging pictures
or tapestries in her drawing-rooms ; if
she did bet and lose and never pay ; if she did
go to fancy frisks in a few yards of gossamer
and her jewels, nobody ever said anything,
except that she was such a dear little woman.
It is such a sensible thing to 'pull yourself
together ' and be wise in time.

Lord Jura, who was leading his old life, with
Lady Dolly left out of it, stupidly and joylessly,
because he had got into the groove of it, and
could not get out, and who had become gloomy,
taciturn, and inclined to drink more than was
good for him, used to watch the comedy of
Lady Dolly's better-ordered life with a cynical
savage diversion. When he had come back from
his Asiatic hunting tour, which had lasted
eighteen months, h6 had met her as men and
women do meet in society, no matter what
tragedies divide or hatreds rage in them ; but
she had seen very well that ' Jack ' was lost to
her for ever. She did not even try to get him
back ; and when she heard men say that Jura

was not the good fellow lie used to be, and
played too high and drank too deep for the
great name he bore, she was pleased, because
he had had no earthly right to go off
in that rough way, or say the things he had
said.

I never see very much of Jura now,' she
would say to her friends. ' He is become so very
farouche since that eastern trip ; perhaps some
woman — I said so to his dear old father
last week — poor Jack is so good and so weak,
he is just the man to fall a prey to a bad
woman.'

The ladies to whom she said this laughed a
little amongst themselves when they had left
her, but they liked her all the better for ridding
herself of an old embarrassment so prettily ; it
formed a very good precedent. Jura of course
said nothing, except to his very intimate friends,
who rallied him. To them he said, ' Well, I
went to India, you know, and she didn't like it,
and when I came back she had got the Sicilian
fellow with her. So I don't bore her any more ;
she is a dear little woman ; yes.'

For honour makes a lie Stir social life's
chief necessity, and Jura, having thus lied for
honour's sake, would think of the Princess
Zouroff in Paris, and swear round oaths to
himself, and go upstairs where they were playing
baccarat, and signing fortunes and estates
away with the scrawl of a watch-chain's pencil.
I think I could have made her happy if it
hadn't been impossible,' he would think sometimes.
' She would always have been miles
beyond me, and no man that ever lived would
have been good enough for her; but I think
I could have made her happy; I would have
served her and followed her like a dog —
anyway, I would have been true to her, and
kept my life decent and clean ; not like that
brute's.'

Then he would curse Sergius Zouroff, as he
went home alone down St. James's Street in the
grey fog of early morning, sick of pleasure,
weary of play, dull with brandy, but not consoled
by it ; knowing that he might have been
a better man, seeing the better ways too late ;
loathing the senseless routine of his life, but
VOL. II. a

too listless to slake off habit and custom, and
find out any different or higher life.

He was Earl of Jura ; he had a vast
inheritance ; he had good health and good
looks ; he was sound in wind and limb ; he
had a fair share of intelligence, if his mind was
slow ; in a few years, when he should succeed
to his father, he would have a thousand pounds
a day as his income. Yet he had got as utterly
into a groove that he hated as any ploughman
that rises every day to tread the same fields
behind the same cattle ; and habit made him
as powerless to get out of it as his poverty
makes the ploughman.

'London is the first city in the world,
they say,' he thought, as he went down St.
James's in the mists that made a summer
morning cheerless as winter, and as colourless.
Well, it may be, for aught I know ; but, damn
it all, if I don't think the Sioux in the big
swamps, or the hill tribes in the Cashier
passes, are more like men than we are.
And we are all so used to it, we never see what
fools we are.'

One morning the young Duke of Mull and
Cantire arrived in Paris, where he was seldom
seen, and chanced to find his cousin alone in
her morning room at the Hotel Zourofi'.

He was a good-looking young man, with a
stupid honest face ; he dressed shabbily and
roughly, yet always looked like a gentleman.
He had no talents, but, to compensate, he had novices
; he was very simple, very loyal, and very
trustful. He was fond of Yere, and had been
dismayed at the marriage so rapidly arranged ;
but he had seen her at St. Petersburg, and was
deceived by her coldness and calm into thinking
her consoled by ambition.

G 2

■1

I am about to marry too,' he said, with a
shamefaced laugh, a little while after his entrance.
' I have asked her again and she says
Yes." I ran down to Paris to tell you this.'

Vere looked at him with dismay.

You do not mean Fuschia Leach ? ' she
said quickly.

The young duke nodded.

She's quite too awfully pretty, you know;
a fellow can't help it.'

She is pretty, certainly.'

Oh, hang it, Vere, that's worse than
abusing her. You hate her, I can see. Of
course I know she isn't our form, but — but — I
am very fond of her ; dreadfully fond of her ;
and you will see, in a year or two, how fast she
will pick it all up '

Vere sat silent.

She was deeply angered ; her chief fault
was pride, an incurable pride of birth withall
its prejudices, strong as the prejudices of
youth alone can be.

Won't you say something kind ? ' faltered
her cousin.

I cannot pretend what I do not feel,' she
said coldly. ' I think such a marriage a great
unworthiness, a great disgrace. This — this —
person is not a gentlewoman, and never will be
one, and I think that you will repent giving
your name to her — if you do ever give it.'

I give it most certainly,' said the young
lover hotly and sullenly ; ' and if you and I are
to be friends, deai-, in the future, you must
welcome her as a friend too.'

I shall not ever do that,' said Vere simply ;
but the words, though they were so calm, gave
him a chill.

'I suppose you will turn the forests into
coal-mines now ? ' she added, after a moment's
pause. The young man reddened.

Poor grand mamma ! ' said Vere wistfully,
and her eyes filled with tears.

The stern old woman loved her grandchildren
well, and had done her best by them,
and all they were fated to bring her in her
old age were pain and humiliation.

Would the old duchess ever force herself
to touch the flower-like cheek of Fuschia Leach

with a kiss of greeting ? Never, thought Vere ;
never, never !

When all is said and done,' muttered the
young duke angrily, ' what is the utmost you
can bring against my poor love? That she
is not our form? That she doesn't talk in our
way, but says " cunning " where we say
nice " ? Is that a great crime ? She is
exquisitely pretty. She is as clever as anything
— a prince of the blood might be proud
of her. She has a foot for Cinderella's slipper.
She never tried to catch me, not she;
she sent me about my business twice; laughed
at me because I wear such old hats ; she's as
frank as sunlight ! God bless her ! '

^I think we will not speak of her,' said
Vere, coldly. ' Of course you do as you please.
I used to think Herbert of Mull a great name,
but perhaps I was mistaken. I was only a
child. I am almost glad it has ceased to be
mine, since so soon she will own it. Will you
not stay to dinner. Monsieur Zouroff will be
most happy to see you ? '

'I will see your husband before T leave

Paris said the young man, a little moodily,
'and I am very sorry you take it like that,
Vere, because you and I were always good
friends at old Bulmer.'

I think you will find everyone will take it
like that — who cares for you or your honour.'

Honour ! — Vere, I should be so sorry to
quarrels won't discuss this thing. It is
no use.'

No. It is no use.'

But she sighed as she spoke ; it was a link
the more added to the heavy chain that she
dragged with her now. Everyone seemed failing
her, and all old faiths seemed changing.
He was the head of her family, and she knew
his uprightness, his excellence, his stainless
honour — and he was about to marry Fuschia
Leach.

The visit of her cousin brought back to her,
poignantly and freshly, the pain of the letter
written to her on her own marriage from Bul-mer.
A great longing for that old innocent
life, all dull and sombre though it had been,
came on her as she sat in solitude after he had

left her, and thought of the dark wet woods,
the rough grey seas, the long gallops on forest
ponies, the keen force of the north wind beating
and bending the gnarled storm-shaven trees.

What she would have given to have been
Yere Herbert once again ! never to have known
this weary, gilded, perfumed, decorated, restless
and insincere world to which she had been sold !

Eeally I don't know what to say,' said Lady
Dolly, when, in her turn, she heard the tidings
in London. ' No, really I don't. Of course
you ought to marry money, Frank; an immensity
of money ; and most of these Americans
have such heaps. It is a very bad
marriage for you, very ; and yet she is so very
much the fashion, I really don't know what
to say. And it will drive your grandmother
wild, which will be delightful; and these
American women always get on somehow ; they
have a way of getting on ; I dare say she will be
Mistress of the Robes some day, and all sorts of
things. She is horribly bad form ; you don't
mind my saying so, because you must see it
for yourself. But then it goes down, and it

pleases better than anything ; so, after all, I
am not sure that it matters. And, besides, she
will change wonderfully when she is Duchess
of Mull. All those wild little republicans
get as starchy as possible once they get a
European title. They are just like those
scatter-brained princes in history, that turn out
such stern good-goody sort of despots, when
once the crown is on their heads. Really, I
don't know what to say. I knew quite well she
meant to get you when she went to Stagholme
this October after you. Oh, you thought it
was accident, did you? How innocent of you,
and how nice ! You ought to have married
more money ; and it is horrible to have a wife
who never had a grandfather ; but still, I don't
know, she will make your place very lively, and
she won't let you wear old hats. Yes — yes —
you might have done worse. You might have
married out of a music-hall or a circus. Some
of them do. And, after all, Fuschia Leach is
a person everybody can know,'

The young lover did not feel much comforted
by this form of congratulation, but it

was the best that any of his own family and
friends had given him, and Lady Dolly quite
meant to be kind.

She was rather glad herself that the
American would be Duchess of Mull. She
had hated all the Herbertss for many a long
year, and she knew that, one and all, they
would sooner have seen the 3^oung chief of
their race in his grave. Lady Dolly felt that
in large things and little. Providence, after
treating her very badly, was at last giving her
her own way.

The young Duke of Mull a month later had
his way, and married his brilliant Fuschia in
the teeth of the stiffest opposition and blackest
anathemas from his family. Not one of them
deigned to be present at the ceremony of his
sacrifice except his aunt. Lady Dorothy Wanders
who said to her friends : —

I hate the thing quite as much as they all
do, but I can't be ill-natured, and poor Frank
feels it so ; and, after all, you know, he might
have married out of a music-hall or a circus.
So many of them do.'

People said what a dear little amiable
woman she was; so different from her daughter;
and, on the whole, the marriage, with choral
service at the Abbey, and breakfast at a monster
hotel where Mrs. Leach had a whole half of
the first floor, was a very magnificent affair,
and was adorned with great names despite the
ominous absence of the Herbertss of Mull.

'I'm glad that girl put my monkey up
about the coal, and made me whistle him back,'
thought the brilliant Fuschia to herself as the
choir sang her epithalamium. 'It's a whole
suit and all the buttons on ; after all, a duchess
is always a four-horse concern when she's an
English one; and they do think it some
pumpkins at home. I'm afraid the money's
whittled away a good deal, but we'll dig for
that coal before the year's out. Duchess of
Mull and Cantire ! After all it's a big thing,
and sounds smart.

And the bells, as they rang, seemed to her
fancy to ring that and that only all over
London. ' Duchess of Mull ! Duchess of
Mull ! '

k

It was a raw, dark, rainy day, in the middle
of March, as unpleasant as London weather
could possibly be ; but the shining eyes of the
lovely Fuschia, and her jewels, and her smiles,
seemed to change the sooty, murky, mists to
tropic sunshine.

'How will you. quarter the arms, Frank? '
whispered Lady Dolly, as she bade her nephew
adieu. ' A pig gules with a knife in its throat,
and a bottle argent of pick-me-up ? — how nice
the new blazonries will look ! '

But the young duke had no ears for her.

Very uselessly, but very feverishly, the
obligation to call Fuschia Leach cousin irritated
the Princess Zouroff into an unceasing
pain and anger. To her own cousin on the
marriage she sent a malachite cabinet and
some grand jade vases, and there ended her
acknowledgment of it. She was offended, and
did not conceal it.

When the world who had adored Pick-meus
as a maiden, found Pick-me-up as Duchess
of Mull and Cantire as adorable as another
generation had found Georgia Duchess ot

Devonshire, Vere's proud mouth smiled with
ineffable contempt.

'What will you, my love?' said Madame
Nelaguine. ' She is frightfully vulgar, but it is
a piquante vulgarity. It takes.'

Vere frowned and her lips set close.

She has made him sink coal shafts in the
forest already ; onr forest ! '

Madame Nelaguine shrugged her shoulders.

'It is a pity, for the forests. But we
dig for salt; it is cleaner, prettier, but I
am not sure that is more princely, salt than
coal.'

No Herbert of Mull has ever done it,' said
Vere with darkening flashing eyes. ' Not one
in all the centuries that we have been on the
Northumbrian seaboard, for we were there in the
days of Otterburn and Flodden. No man of
them would ever do it. Oh, if you had ever
seen that forest ! and soon now it will be a
blackened, smoking, reeking treeless waste.
It is shameful of my cousin Francis.'

He is in love still, and does what she tells
him. My dear, our sex is divided into two

sorts of women — those who always get their
own way and those who never get it. ,
as they call your cousin's wife in
London, is of the fortunate first sort. She is
vulgar, ignorant, audacious, uneducated, but
she takes, and in her way she is mattress
femme. You have a thousand times more
mind, and ten thousand times more character,
yet you do not get your own way ; you never
will get it.'

'I would have lived on beech mast and
acorns from the forest trees sooner than have
sunk a shaft under one of them,' said Yere
unheeding, only thinking of the grand old
glades, the deep, still greenery, the mossy
haunts of buck and doe, the uplands and the
yellow gorse, that were to be delivered over
now to the smoke-fiend.

'That I quite believe,' said her sister-in-law.
'But it is just that kind. of sentiment
in you which will for ever prevent your having
influence. You are too lofty; you do not
stoop and see the threads in the dust that
guide men.'

For thirteen centuries the forest has been
untouched answered Vere.

It was an outrage that she could not
forgive.

When she first met the Duchess of Mull
after her marriage, Fuschia Leach, translated
into Her Grace, said across a drawing-room,
'Vera, I am going to dig for that
coal. I guess we'll live to make a pile that
way.' Vere deigned to give no answer, unless
a quick, angry flush, and the instant turning
of her back on the new duchess could be called
one. The young duke sat between them,
awed, awkward and ashamed.

I will never forgive it,' his cousin said to
him later. ' I will never forgive it. She
knows no better because she was born so — but
you ! '

He muttered a commonplace about waste
of mineral wealth, and felt a poor creature.

I think you're quite right to dig,' said
Lady Dolly in his ear to console him. ' Quite
right to dig; why not? I dare say your wife
will make your fortune, and I am sure she ought

if lie can, to compensate for her papa, who
helps people to " liquor up," and her brothers,
who are in the pig-killing trade, pig-killing by
machinery ; I've seen a picture of it in the
papers ; the pigs go down a gangway, as we do
on to the Channel steamers, and they come up
hams and sausages. Won't you have the pig-killer
over? They would be quite dans le
metier at Hurlingham. Of course she tells you
to dig, and you do it. Good husbands always
do what they're told.' %

For Lady Dolly detested all the Herbertss,
and had no mercy whatever on any one of
them; and, in her way, she was a haughty
little woman, and though she was shrewd
enough to see that in her day aristocracy to be
popular must pretend to be democratic, she
did not relish any more than any other member
of that great family, the connection of its head
with the pig-killing brothers down west.

Yet, on the whole, she made herself
pleasant to the new duchess, discerning that
the lovely Fuschia possessed in reserve an
immense retaliating power of being ^ nasty'

were she displeased, so that sensible Lady Dolly
even went the length of doing what all the
rest of the Mull family flatly refused to do —
she presented her niece ' on her marriage.'

And Her Grace, who, on her first girlish
presentation, when she had first come over ' the
pickle-fields' had confessed herself 'flustered,'
was, on this second occasion perfectly equal toit
; carrying her feathers as if she had been
born with them on her head, and bending her
bright cheeks over a bouquet in such a manner
that all London dropped at her feet. ' If Sam
and Saul could see me,' thought the American
beauty, hiding a grin with her roses ; her
memory reverting to the big brothers, at that
moment standing above a great tank of pigs'
blood, counting the ' dead 'uns ' as they were
cast in the caldrons.

It is so very extraordinary. I suppose it
is because she is so dreadfully odd,' said Lady
Dolly of her daughter to Lady Stoat that spring,
on her return from spending Easter in Paris.
But when we think she has everything she can
possibly wish for, that when she goes down the

VOL. II. H

Bois really nobody else is looked at, that he
has actually bought the Eoc's Egg for her —
really, really, it is flying in the face of Providence
for her not to be happier than she is. I
am sure if at her age I might have spent ten
thousand pounds a season on my gowns, I
should have been in heaven if they had married
me to a Caffre.'

'I never think you did your dear child
justice,' said Lady Stoat gently. ' No, I must
say you never did. She is very steadfast, you
know, and quite out of the common, and not
in the least vulgar. Now, if you won't mind
my saying it, —-because I am sure you do enjoy
yourself, but then you are such a dear, enjoyed,
good-natured little creature that you accommodate
yourself to anything — to enjoy the present
generation one must be a little vulgar. I aman
old woman, you know, and look on and see
things, and the whole note of this thing is
vulgar even when it is at its very best. It has
been so ever since the Second Empire.'

The dear Second Empire ; you never were
just to it,' said Lady Dolly, with the tears

almost rising to her eyes at the thought of all
she had used to enjoy in it.

'It was the apotheosis of the vulgar; of
the sort of Hague and shamelessness which
made De Morn put an Hortensia on his carriage
panels,' said Lady Stoat calmly. ' To
have that sort of epoch in an age is like having
skunk fur on your clothes; the taint never
goes away, and it even gets on to your lace
and your cachemires. I am afraid our grandchildren
will smell the Second Empire far away
into the twentieth century, and be the worse
for it.'

I daresay there will have been a Fourth
and a Fifth by then.'

Collapsed windbags, I dare say. The richest
soil always bears the rankest mushrooms.
France is always bearing mushrooms. It is a
pity. But what I meant was that your Vere
has not got the taint of it at all ; I fancy she
scarcely cares at all about that famous diamond
unless it be for its historical associations. I am
quite sure she doesn't enjoy being stared at;
and I think she very heartily dislikes having

H 2

her beauty written about in newspapers, as if
she were a mare of Lord Falmouth's or a cow
of Lady Pigott's ; she is not Second Empire,
that's all.'

Then you mean to say I am vulgar ! ' said
Lady Dolly, with some tartness.

Lady Stoat smiled, a deprecating smile,
that disarmed all sufferers, who without it
might have resented her honeyed cruelties.

My dear ! I never say rude things ; but, if

you wish me to be sincere, I confess I think

everybody is a little vulgar now, except old

women like me, who adhered to the Faubourg

while you all were dancing and changing your

dresses seven times a day at St. Cloud. There

is a sort of vulgarity in the air ; it is difficult to

escape imbibing it ; there is too little reticence,

there is too much tearing about ; men are not

well-mannered, and women are too solicitous to

please, and too indifferent how far they stoop in

pleasing. It may be the fault of steam ; it maybe

the fault of smoking ; it may come from that

flood of new people of whom " L'Etrangere " is

the scarcely exaggerated sample ; but, whatever

it comes from, there it is — a vulgarity that taints
everything", courts and cabinets as well as
society. Your daughter somehow or other has
escaped it, and so you find her odd, and the
world thinks her stiff. She is neither ; but no
dignified long-descended point-lace, you know,
will ever let itself be twisted and whirled into
a cascade and SbfouilUs like your Bretonne lace
that is just the fashion of the hour, and worth
nothing. I admire your Vera very greatly ; she
always makes me think of those dear old stately
hotels with their grand gardens in which I saw,
in my girlhood, the woman who, in theirs, had
known France before '30. Those hotels and
their gardens are gone, most of them, and
there are stucco and gilt paint in their places.
And there are people who think that a gain. I
am not one of them.'

'My sweetest Adine,' said Vere's mother
pettishly, 'if you admire my child so much,
why did you persuade her to marry Sergius
ZouroflP?'

To please you, dear,' said Lady Stoat with
a glance that cowed Lady Dolly. ' I thought

she would adorn the position ; she does adorn
it. It is good to see a gentlewoman of the old
type in a high place, especially when she is
young. When we are older, they don't listen
much; they throw against us the laudatory
tempore act, — they think we are disappointed
or embittered. It is good to see a young woman
to whom men still have to bow, as they bow to
queens, and before whom they do not dare to
talk the langue verte. She ought to have a great
deal of influence.'

She has none ; none whatever. She never
will have any,' said Lady Dolly, with a sort of
triumph, and added, with the sagacity that
sometimes shines out in silly people — ' You
never influence people if you don't like the
things they like ; you always look what the
boys call a prig. Women hate Yere, perfectly
hate her, and yet I am quite sure she never did
anything to any one of them ; for, in her cold
way, she is very good-natured. But then she
spoils her kind things ; the way she does them
annoys people. Last winter, while she was at
Nice, Olga Wet chine — you know her, the handsome

one, her husband was in the embassy over
here some time ago — utterly ruined herself at
play, pledged everything she possessed, and was
desperate; she had borrowed heavens knows
what, and lost it all. She went and told Vera.
Vera gave her a heap of money sans faire prier,
and then ran her pen through the Sketching's
name on her visiting list. Zouroff was furious.
Let the woman be ruined," he said, " what was
it to you ; but go on receiving her ; she is an
ex-ambassadress; she will hate you all your
life." Stow what do you call that? '

My friends of the old faubourg would
have done the same,' said Lady Stoat, only
they would have done it without giving the
money.'

I can't imagine why she did give it,' said
Lady Dolly. ' I believe she would give to anybody
— to Noisette herself, if the creature were
in want.'

She probably knows nothing at all about
Noisette.'

Oh yes, she does. For the Zwetchiiie, as
soon as she had got the money safe, wrote all

about that woman to lier, and every other
horrid thing she could think of too, to show
her gratitude, she said. Gratitude is always
such an unpleasant quality, you know ; there
is always a grudge behind it.'

And what did she say, or do about
Noisette ? '

'Nothing; nothing at all. I should never
have heard of it, only she tore the Sketching
letters up, and her maid collected them and
pieced them together, and told my maid ; you
know what maids are. I never have any confidence
from Vera. I should never dare to say
a syllable to her.'

Very wise of her ; very dignified, not to
make a scene. So unlike people now-a-days,
too, when they all seem to think it a positive
pleasure to get into the law-courts and newspapers.'


No ; she didn't do anything. And now I
come to think of it,' said Lady Dolly, with a
sudden inspiration towards truthfulness, ' she
struck off the Sketching's name after that letter,
very likely ; and I dare say never told Zouroff

she had had it, for she is very proud, and very
silent, dreadfully so.'

She seems to me very sensible,' said Lady
Stoat. ' I wish my Gwendolen were like her.
It is all I can do to keep her from rushing to
the lawyers about Birk.'

Vera is ice,' said Lady Dolly.

And how desirable that is ; how safe I '
said Lady Stoat, with a sigh of envy and self-pity,
for her daughter. Lady Birkenhead, gave
her trouble despite the perfect education that
daughter had received.

Certainly safe, so long as it lasts, but not
at all popular,' said Lady Dolly, with some
impatience. 'They call her the Edelweiss in
Paris. Of course it means that she is quite
inaccessible. If she were inaccessible in the
right way, it might be all very well, though
the time 's gone by for it, and it 's always stiff,
and nobody is stiff now-a-days ; still, it might
answer if she were only just exclusive and
not — not — so very rude all round.'

She is never rude ; she is cold.'

*It comes to the same thing,' said Lady

Dolly, who hated to be contradicted. ' Everybody
sees that they bore her, and people hate
you if they think they bore you ; it isn't that
they care about you, but they fancy you find
them stupid. Now, isn't the most popular
woman in all Europe that creature I detest,
Euschia Mull? Will you tell me anybody so
praised, so petted, so sought after, so raved
about ? Because she 's a duchess ? 0, my
love, no ! You may be a duchess, and you
may be a nobody outside your own county,
just as that horrid old cat up at Buhner has
always been. Oh, that has nothing to do with
it. She is so popular because everybody delights
her, and everything is fun to her. She's as
sharp as a needle, but she 's as gay as a lark.
I hate her, but you can't be dull where she is.
You know the prince always calls her " Pick-meus."
At that fancy fair for the poor Wallace
whoever the poor Wallace may be — the
whole world was there. Vera had a stall, she
loaded it with beautiful things, things much
too good, and sat by it, looking like a very
grand portrait of Mignard's. She was superb.

exquisite, and she had a bower of orchids, and
a carved ivory chair from Hindostan. People
flocked up by the hundreds, called out about
her beauty, and — went away. She looked so
still, so tired, so contemptuous. A very little
way off was Fuschia Mull, selling vile tea and
tea-cakes, and two-penny cigarettes. My dear,
the whole world surged round that stall as if
it were mad. Certainly she had a lovely Louis
Treize hat on, and a delicious dress, gold
brocade with a violet velvet long waistcoat.
Her execrable tea sold for a sovereign a cup,
and when she kissed her cigarettes they went
for five pounds each ! Zouroff went up and
told his wife : " A brioche there fetches more
than your Saxe, and your Sevres, and your
orchids," he said. " You don't tempt the
people, you frighten them." Then Vera looked
at him with that way — she has such a freezing
way — and only said : " Would you wish me to
kiss the orchids ? " Zouroff laughed. " Well,
no; you don't do for this thing, I see; you
don't know how to make yourself cheap."
Now I think he hit exactly on what I mean.

To be liked now-a-days you must make yourself
cheap. If you want to sell your cigar you
must kiss it.'

But suppose she has no cigars she wants
to sell?'

'You mean she has a great position, and
need care for nobody ? That is all very well.
But if she ever come to grief, see how they
will turn and take it out of her ! '

I never said she was wise not to be polite,'
pleaded Lady Stoat. 'But as to "coming to
grief," as you say, that is impossible. She will
always sit in that ivory chair.'

I dare say ; but one never knows, and she
is odd. If any day she get very angry with
Zouroff, she is the sort of temper to go out of
his house in her shift, and leave everything
behind her.'

What a picture ! ' said Lady Stoat, with a
shudder.

Nothing appalled Lady Stoat like the idea
of anyone being wrought upon to do anything
violent. She would never admit that there
could ever be any reason for it, or excuse.

She had been an admirable wife to a bad
husband herself, and she could not conceive any
woman not considering her position before all
such pettier matters as emotions and wrongs.

When her daughter, who was of an impetuous
disposition, which even the perfect
training she had received had not subdued,
would come to her in rage and tears because
of the drunkenness or because of the open
infidelities of the titled Tony Bumpkin that
she had wedded, Lady Stoat soothed her, but
hardly sympathised. ' Lead your own life, my
love, and don't worry,' she would say. ' Nothing
can unmake your position, and no one, except
yourself.' When her daughter passionately
protested that position was not all that a
woman wanted at twenty years old and with a
heart not all trained out of her. Lady Stoat
would feel seriously annoyed and injured. 'You
forget your position,' she would reply. ' Pray,
pray do not jeopardise your position. Let
your husband go to music-halls and creatures
if he must ; it is very sad, certainly, very sad.
But it only hurts him; it cannot affect your

position.' Farther than that the light she
possessed could not take her.

She would not have been disposed to quarrel
with the Princess Zouroff, as her own mother
did, for not playing the fool at fancy fairs, but she
would have thought it horrible, inexcusable, if,
under the pressure of any wrong, the affront
of infidelity, she had — in Lady Dolly's figure
of speech — left her husband's house in her
shift.

Never lose your position,' would have been
the text that Lady Stoat would have had written
in letters of gold, for all young wives to read,
and it was the text on which all her sermons
were preached.

Position was the only thing that, like old
wine or oak furniture, improved with years. If
you had a good position at twenty, at forty you
might be a power in the land. What else
would wear like that ? Not love, certainly,
which indeed at all times Lady Stoat was disposed
to regard as a malady ; a green sickness,
inevitable, but, to onlookers, very irritating in
its delirious nonsense.

It was neither mere rank nor mere riches
that Lady Stoat considered a great position.
It was the combination of both, with a power —
inalienable except by your own act — to give the
tone to those around you ; to exclude all who
did not accord with your own notions ; to be
unattainable, untroubled, unruffled; to be a
great example to society; metaphorically to
move through life with carpet always unrolled
before your steps. When you had a position
that gave you all this, if you had tact and talent
enough to avail yourself of it, what could you
by any possibility need more ?

Yet her own daughter, and her friend's
daughter, had this and both were dissatisfied.

Her own daughter, to her anguish unspeakable,
revolted openly and grew vulgar; even
grew vulgar ; went on the boxes of the 's
coaches, shot and hunted, played in
amateur performances before London audiences
far from choice ; had even been seen at the
Crystal Palace ; had ' loud ' costumes with
wonderful waistcoats ; and had always a crowd
of young men wherever she went. Lady Stoat

honestly would sooner have seen her in her
grave.

The Princess Zouroff, who had the very
perfection of manner even if she offended
people, who knew of her husband's infidelities
and said nothing, went coldly and serenely
through the world, taking no pleasure in it
perhaps, but giving it no power to breathe a
breath against her.

Why was she not my child ! ' sighed Lady
Stoat sadly.

If Lady Stoat could have seen into the
soul of Yere, she would have found as little
there with which she could have sympathised
as she found in her own daughter's tastes for
the stage, the drag, and the loud waistcoats.

She could not imagine the price at which
Vere's composure was attained ; the cost at
which that perfect manner, which she admired,
was kept unruffled by a sigh or frown. She
could not tell that this young life was one
of perpetual suffering, of exhausting effort
to keep hold on the old faiths and the
old principles of childhood amidst a world

which has cast out faith as old-fashioned and
foolish, and regards a principle as an affront
and an ill-nature. Her own society found
the young Princess Vera very cold, unsympathetic,
strange ; she was chill about fashionable
good works, and her grand eyes had a
look in them, stern in its sadness, which
frightened away both courtiers and enemies.
The verdict upon her was that she was unamiable.


The world did not understand her.

The poor you have always with you,' had
been an injunction that, in the days of her
childhood, she had been taught to hold sacred.

The poor you have always with you,' she
said to a bevy of great ladies once. ' Christ
said so. You profess to follow Christ. How
have you the poor with you ? The back of their
garret, the roof of their hovel, touches the wall
of your palace, and the wall is thick. You
have dissipations, spectacles, diversions that
you call charities ; you have a romola for a
famine, you have a dramatic performance fora
flood, you have a concert for a fire, you

VOL. II. I

have a fancy fair for a leprosy. Do you never
think how horrible it is, that mockery of woe ?
Do you ever wonder at revolutions? Why
do you not say honestly that you care nothing?
You do ca-re nothing. The poor might forgive
the avowal of indifference ; they will never forgive
the insult of affected pity.'

Then the ladies who heard were scandalised,
and went to their priests and were comforted,
and would not have this young saint preach to
them as Chrysostom preached to the ladies of
Constantinople.

But Vere had been reared in tender thoughtfulness
for the poor. Her grandmother, stern
to all others, to the poor was tender.

Put your second frock on for the Queen,
if you like,' she would say to the child ; ' but
to the poor go in your best clothes or they
will feel hurt.' Yere never forgot what was
meant in that bidding. Charity in various
guises is an intruder the poor see often ; but
courtesy and delicacy are visitants with which
they are seldom honoured.

It is very difficult for a woman who is

young and very rich not to be deceived
very often, and many an impostor, no
doubt, played his tricks upon her. But she
was clear-sighted and much in earnest, and
found many whose needs were terrible, and
whose lives were noble. The poor of Paris
are suspicious, resentful, and apt to be sullen
in their independence ; but they are often also
serious and intelligent, tender of heart, and
gay of spirit. Some of them she grew to care
for very much, and many of them forgave her
for being an aristocrat, and welcomed her for
her loveliness and her sympathy. As for herself,
she sometimes felt that the only reality
life had for her was when she went up to
those damp chill attics in the metal roofs, and
spoke with those whose bread was bitterness
and whose cup was sorrow. Her husband,
with some contempt, told her she grew like
Saint Elizabeth of Thuringia, but he did not
forbid her doing as she pleased. If she were
present to drive in the Bois, or ride there before
sunset, and afterwards went to dinner,
or ball, or reception, as the engagements of
I 2

the night might require, he did not exact anymore
account of her time or ask how her mornings
were spent.

^ You leave Vera too much alone, terribly
too much,' said his sister to him once.

He stared, then laughed.

Alone ? a woman of her rank is never
alone. Not a whit more than queens are ! '

I mean you are not with her ; you never
ask what she does all the day.'

'I suppose her early hours are given to
her tailor and her milliner, and the later ones
to morning visits,' he answered with a yawn.
It does not matter what she does. She is a
fool in many things, but she will not abuse
liberty.'

For, though he had never believed in any
woman, he did believe in his wife.

'She will not abuse it yet; no,' thought
Madame Nelaguine. ' No, not yet, whilst she
is still under the influence of her childish faiths
and her fear of God. But after ? — after eye,
six, seven years of the world, of this world into
which you have cast her without any armour of

love to protect her — how will it be then '? It
will not be men's fault if she misuse her
liberty ; and assuredly it will not be women's.
We corrupt each other more than men corrupt
us.'

Aloud the Princess Nelaguine merely said,
You allow her to be friends with Jeanne de
Sonnaz ? '

Zouroff laughed again and frowned.

'All women in the same set see one
another day and night. Who is to help that ? '

c But '

'Be reasonable,' he said roughly. 'How
can I say to my wife, '• Do not receive the
Duchesse de Sonnaz." All Paris would be
convulsed, and Jeanne herself a demoniac.
Good heavens ! Where do you get all these
new scruples ? Is it your contact with Vera ? '

Your contact with her does not teach
them to you,' said his sister coldly. ' Oh, our
world is vile enough, that I know well, but
somewhere or other I think it might keep a
little conscience, for exceptional circumstances,
and so might you.'

^ Do not talk nonsense, I cannot tell
Jeanne not to know mj wife, or my wife not to
know Jeanne. They must take their chance;
there is nothing exceptional ; every man does
the same.'

Yes ; we are very indecent,' said Madame
Nelaguine quietly. ' We do not admit it, but
we are.'

Her brother shrugged his shoulders to
express at once acquiescence and indifference.

In one of the visits that her charities led his
wife to make she heard one day a thing that
touched her deeply . Her horses knocked down
a girl of fifteen who was crossing the Avenue
du Bois de Boulogne. The girl was not
hurt, though frightened. She was taken
into the Hotel Zouroff, and Vere returned to
the house to attend to her. As it proved,
the child, when the faintness of her terror
had passed, declared herself only a little
bruised, smiled and thanked her, and said she
would go home; she wanted nothing. She
was a freckled, ugly, bright-looking little thing,
and was carrying some of those artificial

flowers with which so many girls of Paris gain
their daily bread. Her name was Felicia
Martin, and she was the only child of her
father, and her mother was dead.

The following day the quiet little coii'pe
that took Vere on her morning errands, found
its way into a narrow but decent street in the
BatignoUes, and the Princess Zouroff inquired
for the Sieur Martin.

Yere bade her men wait below, and went
up the stairs to the third floor. The house
was neat, and was let to respectable people of
the higher class of workers. In her own
world she was very proud, but it was not the
pride that offends the working classes, because
it is dignity and not arrogance, and is
simple and natural, thinking nothing of rank
though much of race, and far more still of
character.

May I come in ? ' she said in her clear
voice, which had always so sad an accent in it,
but for the poor was never cold. 'Will you
allow me to make myself quite sure that your
daughter is none the worse for that accident,

and tell you myself how very sorry I was ?
Eussian coalition are always so reckless.'

^ But, madame, it is too much honour ! ' said
a little, fair man who rose on her entrance, but
did not move forward. ' Forgive me, madame,
you are as beautiful as you are good ; so I have
heard from my child, but alas ! I cannot have
the joy to see such sunlight in my room.
Madame will pardon me— I am blind.'

Blind ? ' — the word always strikes a chill
to those who hear it; it is not a very rare
calamity, but it is the one of all others which
most touches bystanders, and is most quickly
realised. He was a happy-looking little man,
nevertheless, though his blue eyes were without
light in them gazing into space unconsciously ;
the room was clean, and gay, and sweet-smelling,
with some pretty vases and prints
and other simple ornaments, and in the casement
some geraniums and heliotrope.

'Yes, I am blind,' he said cheerfully. 'Will
Madame la Princesse kindly be seated? My
child is at her workshop. She will be so glad
and proud. She has talked of nothing but

madame ever since yesterday. Madame's
beauty, madame's goodness; — ah yes, the mercy
of it ! I am always afraid for my child in the
streets, but she is not afraid for herself ; she is
little, but she is brave. It is too much kindness
for Madame la Princesse to have come up all
this height, but madame is good ; one hears it
in her voice. Yes, my child makes flowers
for the great Maison Justine. Our angel did
that for us. She is my only child, yes.
Her dear mother died at her birth. I was
fourth clarion at the Opera Comique at that
time.'

But you can play still ? '

Ah no, madame. My right arm is paralysed.
It was one day in the forest at Vincennes.
Felicie was ten years old. I thought
to give her a Sunday in the wood. It was in
May. We were very happy, she and I running
after one another, and pulling the hawthorn
when no one looked. All in a moment a great
storm came up and burst over us where we were
in the midst of the great trees. The lightning
struck my eyes and my right shoulder. Ah the

poor, poor child! . . . But madame must excuse
me; I am tiresome '

It interests me ; go on.'

1 fell into great misery, madame. That is
all. No hospital could help me. The sight
was gone, and my power to use my right arm
was gone too. I could not even play my
clarion in the streets as blind men do. I had
saved a little, but not much. Musicians do not
save, any more than painters. I had never
earned very much either. I grew very very
poor. I began to despair. I had to leave my
lodging, my pretty little rooms where the child
was born and where my wife had died ; I went
lower and lower, I grew more and more
wretched; a blind, useless man with a little
daughter. And I had no friends ; no one ;
because, myself, I came from Alsace, and
the brother I had there was dead, and our
parents too had been dead long, long before ;
they had been farmers. Madame, I saw no
hope at all. I had not a hope on earth, and
Felicie was such a little thing she could do
nothing. But I fatigue madame ? '

Indeed no. Pray go on, and tell me how
it is that you are so tranquil now.'

I am more than tranquil ; I am happy,
Princess. That is his doing. My old employers
all forgot me. They had so much to
think of; it was natural. I was nobody. There
were hundreds and thousands could play as
well as I had ever played. One day when I
was standing in the cold, hungry, with my little
girl hungry too, I heard them saying how the
young singer Correze had been engaged at fifty
thousand francs a night for the season. I
went home and I made the child write a letter
to the young man. I told him what had
happened to me, and I said, " You are young
and famous, and gold rains on you like dew in
midsummer; will you remember that we are very
wretched? If you said a word to my old
directors — you — they would think of me." I
sent the letter. I had often played in the
orchestra when the young man was first turning
the heads of all Paris. 1 knew he was gay and
careless ; I had not much hope.'

Well ? ' Her voice had grown soft and

eager ; the man was blind, and could not seethe
flush upon her face.

Well, a day or two went by, and I thought
the letter was gone in the dust. Then he came
to me, he himself, Correze. I knew his perfect
voice as I heard it on the stairs. You can
never forget it once you have heard. He had
a secretary even then, but he had not left my
letter to the secretary. He came like the angel
Raphael whose name he bears.'

Yere's eyes filled ; she thought of the white
cliffs by the sea, of the sweetbread hedge, and
the song of the thrush.

^ But I tire madame,' said the blind man.
He came like an angel. There is no more to be
said. He made believe to get me a pension
from the opera, but I have always thought that
it is his own money, though he will not own toit
; and as my child had a talent for flower-making
he had her taught the trade, and got
her employed later on by the Maison Justine.
He sent me that china, and he sends me those
flowers, and he comes sometimes himself. He
has sung here— here! — only just to make my

darkness lighter. And I am not the only one,
madame. There are many, many, many who
if they ever say their prayers, should never
forget Correze.'

Vere was silent, because her voice failed her.

You have heard Correze, madame, of course,
many times ? ' asked the blind man. ' Ah, they
say he has no religion and is careless as the
butterflies are; to me he has been as the angels.
I should have been in Dicere or in my grave
but for him.'

The girl at that moment entered.

Felicie,' said the Sieur Martin, ' give the
Princess a piece of heliotrope. Oh, she has
forests of heliotrope in her conservatories, that
lam sure, but she will accept it; it is the flower
of Correze.'

Vere took it and put it amidst the old lace
at her breast.

You have Felicie Martin amongst your
girls I think ? ' said Vere to the head of the
Maison Justine a little later.

The principal of that fashionable house, a
handsome and clever woman, assented.

Then let lier make some flowers for me,'
added Yere. ' Any flowers will do. Only will
you permit me to pay her through you very
well for them ; much better for them than they
are worth ? '

Madame la Princesse said the other with
a smile, 'the little Martin cannot make such
flowers as you would wear. I employ her, but
I never use" her flowers, never. I have to
deceive her ; it would break her heart if she
knew that I burn them all. The poor child is
willing, but she is very clumsy. She cannot
help it. Madame will understand it is a secret
of my house ; a very little harmless secret, like
a little mouse. Correze, madame knows whom
I mean, the great singer? — Correze came to me
one day with his wonderful smile, and he said,
There is a blind man and he has a little girl
who wants to make flowers. Will you have her
taught, madame, and allow me to pay for her
lessons ? " I allowed him. Six months afterwards
I said, " M. Correze, it is all of no use.
The child is clumsy. When once they have
fingers like hers it is of no use'* Then he

laughed. " It ought to be difficult to make
artificial flowers. I wish it were impossible.
It is a blasphemy. But I want to make the
girl believe she earns money. Will you employ
her, burn the flowers, and draw the money from
my account at Rothschild's ? ' And I did it to
please him and I do it still ; poor little clumsy
ugly thing that she is, she fancies she works
for the Maison Justine ! It is compromising tome.
I said so to M. Correze. He laughed and
said to me, " Ma chere, when it is a question of
a blind man and a child we must even be compromised,
which, no doubt, is very terrible."
He is always so gay, M. Correze, and so good.
If the child were Venus he would never take
advantage of maintaining her, never, madame.
Ah, he is an angel, that beautiful Correze.
And he can laugh like a boy ; it does one good
to hear his laugh. It is so sweet. My poor
Justine used to say to me, " Marie, hypocrites
weep, and you cannot tell their tears from those
of saints ; but no bad man ever laughed sweetly
yet." And it is true, very true ; Madame la
Princesse will forgive my garrulity.'

When she v^^ent down to her carriage the
world did not seem so dark.

There was beauty in it, as there were those
flowers blooming in that common street. The
little picture of the father and daughter, serene
and joyous in their humble chamber, in the
midst of the gay, wild, ferocious riot of Paris,
seemed like a little root of daisies blooming
white amidst a battle-field.

That night she went to her box at the
Grand Opera, and sat as far in the shadow as
she could and listened to Correze in the part
of Gennaro.

He does not forget that blind man,' she
thought. ' Does he ever remember me ? '

For she could never tell.

From the time she had entered Paris she
had longed, yet dreaded to meet, face to face,
Correze.

She saw him constantly in the street, in
the Bois, in society, but he never approached
her ; she never once could be even sure that he
recognised or remembered her. She heard
people say that Correze was more difficult of

access, more disinclined to accept the worship
of society, than he had been before, but she
could not tell what his motive might be ; she
could not believe that she had any share in his
thoughts. His eyes never once met hers but
what they glanced away again rapidly, and
without any gleam of recognition. Again and
again in those great salons where he was a
petted idol, she was close beside him, but she
could never tell that he remembered her.
Perhaps his life was so full, she thought ; after
all, what was one summer morning that he
should cherish its memory ?

Often in the conversations that went on
around her, she heard his successes, his inconsistencies,
his passions of the past, slight or
great, alluded to, laughed over, or begrudged.
Often, also, she heard of other things ; of some
great generosity to a rival, some great aid to an
aspirant of his art, some magnificent gift to a
college made by the famous singer. Or, on the
other hand, of some captiousness as of a too
I spoilt child, some wayward caprice shown to the
powers of the State by the powers of genius,

Volsci K

some brilliant loveliness of entertainment or of
fancy. When she heard these things her heart
would beat, her colour would change ; they
hurt her, she could not have told why.

Meantime the one solace of her life was to
see his genius and its triumphs, its plenitude
and its perfect flower. Her box at the Grand
Opera was the only one of the privileges of her
position which gave her pleasure. Her knowledge
of music was deep and had been carefully
cultured, and her well-known love for it made
her devotion to the opera pass unremarked.
Seldom could the many engagements made for
her let her hear any one opera from its
overture to the close. But few nights passed
without her being in her place, sitting as far
in the shadow as she could, to hear at least
one act or more of ' Fidelia ' of ' Lucia,' of the
Prophet,' of the * Zauberflote,' of ' Faust,' or
of the ' II Trovatore.' She never knew or
guessed that the singer watched for her fair-haired
head amidst the crowded house, as a
lover watches for the rising of the evening
planet that shall light him to his love.

She saw him in the distance a dozen times
a week, she saw him, not seldom, at the
receptions of great houses, but she never was
near enough to him to be sure whether he had
really forgotten her, or whether he had only
affected oblivion.

Correze, for his own part, avoided society
as much as he could, and alleged that to sing
twice or three times a week was as much as
his strength would allow him to do, if he
wished to be honest and give his best to his
impresario. But he was too popular, too
much missed when absent, and too great a
favourite with great ladies to find retirement
in the midst of Paris possible. So that, again
and again, it was his fortune to see the child
he had sung to on the Norman cliffs announced
to the titled crowds as Madame la
Princesse Zouroff. It always hurt him. On
the other hand he was always glad when, half-hidden
behind some huge fan or gigantic
bouquet, he could see the fair head of Vere in
the opera-house.

When he sang he sang to her.

K 2

'How is it you do not know Princess Vera?'
said many of his friends to him ; for lie never
asked to be presented to her.

I think she would not care to know an
artist,' he would say. 'Why should she?
She is at the height of fame and fortune, and
charm and beauty ; what would she want with
the homage of a singing-mime ? She is very
exquisite ; but you know I have my pride ;
la polite des pauvres, et la grandeur des rois ;
I never risk a rebuff.'

And he said it so lightly that his friends
believed him, and believed that he had a fit
of that reserve which very often made him
haughtier and more difficult to persuade than
any Roi Soleil of the lyric stage had ever been.

I am very shy,' he would say sometimes,
and everybody would laugh at him. Yet, in a
way, it was true ; he had many sensitive fancies,
and all in his temperament that was tender,
spiritual, and romantic had centred itself in
that innocent emotion which had never been
love, which was as fantastic as Dante's, and
almost as baseless as Keats's, and was therefore

all the more dear to him because so unlike the
too easy and too material passions which had
been his portion in youth.

It can do her no harm,' he would think,
and it goes with me like the angel that the
poets write of, that keeps the door of the soul.'

It was a phantasy, he told himself, but
then the natural food of artists was phantasies
of all kinds ; and so this tenderness,
this regret, went with him always
through the gay motley of his changeful
days, as the golden curl of some lost love, or
some dead child, may lie next the heart of a
man all the while that he laughs and talks,
and dines, and drives, and jests, and yawns
in the midst of the world.

It can do her no harm,' he said, and so
he never let his eyes meet hers, and she could
never tell whether he ever remembered that
Vera Zouroff had once been Vere Herbert.

And the weeks and the months rolled on
their course, and Correze was always the Roi
Soleil of his time, and Vere became yet of
greater beauty, as her face and form reached

their full perfection. Her portraits by great
painters, her busts by great sculptors, her
costumes by great artists, were the themes of
the public press ; the streets were filled to
see her go by in the pleasure-capital of the
world ; amongst her diamonds the famous
jewel of tragic memories and historic repute
that was called the roc's o^gg shone on her
white breast as if she had plucked a planet
from the skies. No day passed but fresh
treasures in old jewels, old wares, old gold
and silver from the sales of the Hotel Drouot,
were poured into her rooms with all the delicate
charm about them that comes from history
and tradition. Had she any whim, she
could indulge it ; any taste, she could gratify
it ; any fancy, she could execute it ; and yet
one day when she saw a picture in the Salon
of a slave-girl standing with rope-bound wrists
and fettered ankles, amidst the lustrous s buffs
and gems of the harem, surrounded by the
open coffers and glittering stones and chains
of gold in which her captors were about to
array her nude and trembling limbs, she

looked long at it, and said to the master
of oriental art who had painted it, ' Did you
need to go to the East for that ? '

She bought the picture, and had it hung
in her bedchamber in Paris ; where it looked
strange and startling against the pink taffetas,
and the silver embroideries of the wall.

'That is not in your usual good taste,' said
her husband, finding that the painting ill
agreed with the decorations of the room.

Yere looked at him, and answered : ' It
suits any one of my rooms.'

He did not think enough of the matter to
understand; the picture hung there amidst
the silver Cupids, and the embroidered apple-blossoms
of the wall.

A painful picture, a horrible picture, like
all Gerome's,' said her mother before it once.

A very cold smile came on Vere's mouth.

Yes,' she said simply, ' we have no degradation
like that in Europe, have we ? '

Lady Dolly coloured, turned away, and
asked if Fan tin had designed those charming
wreaths of apple-blossoms and amoris.

But it was very seldom that the bitterness,
and scorn, and shame, that were in her found
any such expression as in the purchase of the
Slave of the Harem.' She was almost always
quite tranquil, and very patient under the
heavy burden of her days.

All the bitterness and humiliation of her
heart she choked down into silence, and she
continued to live as she had done hitherto,
without sympathy and in an utter mental
isolation. She felt that all she had been
taught to respect was ridiculous in the eyes
of those who surrounded her ; she saw all that
she had been accustomed to hold in horror as
sin made subject for jest and for intrigue ; she
saw that all around her, whilst too polite to
deride the belief and the principles that guided
her, yet regarded them as the cobwebs and
chinese of childhood ; she saw that the women
of her world, though they clung to priests,
and in a way, feared an offended heaven — when
they recollected it — yet were as absolutely
without moral fibre and mental cleanliness as
any naked creatures of Pacific isles sacrificing

to their obscene gods. All that she saw ; but it
did not change her.

She was faithful, not because his merit
claimed it, but because her duty made such
faith the only purity left to her. She was
loyal, not because his falseness was ever
worthy of it, but because her nature would
not let her be other than loyal to the meanest
thing that lived.

Chastity was to her as honour to the
gentleman, as courage to the soldier. It was
not a robe embroidered and worn for mere
parade, and therefore easy to be lifted in the
dark by the first audacious hand that ruffled it.

On se console toujours s, we know,' her
sister-in-law thought, who watched her keenly.
Still, there is an exception now and then to
that rule as to any other, and she is one of
those exceptions. It is strange; generally the
great world is like aether, or any other dram-drinking
; tasted once, it is sought for more
and more eagerly everj^ time, and ends in
becoming an indispensable intoxication. But
nothing intoxicates her, and so nothing consoles

her. I believe she does not care in the
least for being one of the very few perfectly
lovely women in Europe. I believe her beauty
is almost distasteful and despicable to her, because
it brought about her bondage; and although
it is an exaggerated way of looking at
such things, she is right ; she was bought, quite
as barbarously as Gerome's slave. Only were
she anybody else she would be reconciled by
now — or be revenged. The only time I ever
see her look in the least happy is at the opera,
and there she seems as if she were dreaming ;
and once, at Svir, when we were driving over
the plains in the snow, and they said the
wolves were behind us — then she looked for the
moment all brilliancy and courage ; one would
have said she was willing to feel the wolves'
breath on her throat. But in the world she
is never like that. What other women find
excitement to her is monotony. Pleasure does
not please her, vanity does not exist in her,
and intrigue does not attract her ; some day
love will.'

And then Madame Nelaguine would pull the

little curls of lier perruque angrily and light her
cigar, and sit down to the piano and compose
her nerves with Chopin.

'As for Sergius he deserves nothing,' she
would mutter, as she followed the dreamy
intricate melodies of the great master.

But then it was not for her to admit that
to anyone, and much less was it for her to
admit it to his wife. Like most great ladies,
she thought little of a sin, but she had a keen
horror of a scandal, and she was afraid of the
future, very afraid of it.

'If she were not a pearl what vengeance
she Avould take ! ' she thought again and
again, whet the excesses and indecencies of
her brother's career reached her ears.

For she forgot that she understood those
as the one most outraged by them was very
slow to do.

Vere still dwelt within the citadel of her
own innocence, as within the ivory walls of
an enchanted fortress. Little by little the
corruption of life flowed in to her and surrounded
her like a foetid moat, but, though

it approached her it did not touch, her, and
often she did not even know that it was
near. What she did perceive filled her with
a great disgust, and her husband laughed at
her.

In these short months of her life in Paris
she felt as though she had lived through centuries.
Ten years in the old grey solitude of
Builder would not have aged her morally and
mentally as these brief months of the riot of
society had done. She had drunk of the cup
of knowledge of good and of evil, and, though
she had drunk with sinless lips, she could
not entirely escape the poison the cup held.

She hated the sin of the world, she hated
the sensuality, the intrigue, the folly, the
insincerity, the callousness of the life of
society, yet the knowledge of it was always
with her like a bitter taste in the mouth.

It hurt her unceasingly ; it aged her like
the passing of many years.

In the beginning of the time she had tried
to ore some threads of constance, some words
of counsel, from the man who was her husband.

and who knew the world so well. The answers
of Sergius Zouroff left her with a heavier
heart and a more bitter taste. The chill
cynicism, the brutal grossness, of his experiences
tore and hurt the delicate fibres of her
moral being, as the poisons and the knife of the
vivisector tear and burn the sensitive nerves
of the living organism that they mutilate.

He did not intend to hurt her, but it
seemed to him that her ignorance made her
ridiculous. He pulled down the veils and
mufflers in which the vices of society mask
themselves, and was amused to see her shrink
from the nude deformity.

His rough, bold temper had only one weakness
in it ; he had a nervous dread of being
made to look absurd. He thought the innocence
and coldness of Vere made him look so.

They will take me for a mari amoureux,^
he thought ; and Madame de Sonnaz laughed,
and told him the same thing fifty times a week.
He began to grow impatient of his wife's unconsciousness
of all that went on around her,
and enlightened her without scruple.

He sat by her, and laughed at Judic and
at The, and was angry with her that she
looked grave and did not laugh; he threw
the last new sensation in realistic literature
on to her table, and bade her read it,
or she would look like a fool when others
talked. Wheii a royal prince praised her too
warmly, and she resented it, he was annoyed
with her. ' You do not know how to take the
world,' he said impatiently. ' It is myself that
you make ridiculous ; I do not aspire to bethought
the jealous husband of the theatres,
running about with a candle and crying aux
voleurs ! '

When she came to know of the vices of
certain great ladies who led the fashion and
the world, she asked him if what was said were
true.

He laughed.

Quite true, and a great deal that is never
said, and that is worse, is as true too.'

'And you wish me to know them? to befriends
with them ? ' she asked in her ignorance.

He swore a little, and gave her a contemptuous

caress, as fco a dog that is importuning.


Know them ? Of course ; you must
always know them. They are the leaders of
society. What is their life to you or anybody ?
It is their husbands' affair. You must be
careful as to women's position, but you need
not trouble yourself about their character.'

Then nothing that anyone does, matters ? '

He shrugged his shoulders. ' It depends
on how the world takes it. You have a proverb
in English about the man who may steal a
horse and the man who must not look at the
halter. The world is very capricious ; it often
says nothing to the horse-stealer, it often
pillories the person that looks at the halter.
You are not in it to redress its caprices. All
you need be careful about is to know the right
persons.'

The people that may steal the horses ? '
said Vere with the faint, fine smile that had
no mirth in it, and was too old for her years ;
the smile that alone had ever come on her lips
since her marriage.

The people that may steal the horses said
Zouroff with a short laugh, not heeding her
smile nor what seed his advice might sow.

When he had left her that day she went
into her bed-chamber and sat down before
Jerome's ' Slave for the Harem.'

The men of the east are better than these
she thought. 'The men of the east do veil
their women and guard them.'

What could he say, what reproach could he
make, if she learned her lesson from his teaching,
and learned it too well for his honour ?

A note was lying on her table from a
great prince whom all the world of women
loved to praise, and languished to be praised
by; a note written by himself, the first
initiatory phrases of an adoration that only
asked one smile from her to become passion.
Such power of vengeance lay for her in it as
there lies power of destruction in the slender,
jewel-like head of the snake.

She had only to write a word — name an
hour — and Sergius Zouroff would taste the
fruit of his counsels.

The thought, which was not temptation
because it was too cold, glided into her mind,
and, for the moment, looked almost sweet to
her because it seemed so just — that sad, wild
justice which is all that any revenge can be at
its best.

She took the note and let it lie on her lap ;
the note that compromised a future king. She
felt as if all her youth were dying in her ; as if
she were growing hard, and cruel, and soulless.
What use were honour, and cleanliness, and
dignity ? Her husband laughed at them ; the
world laughed at them. Nothing mattered.
No one cared.

The voice of one of her maids roused her,
asking, ' Is there any answer from Madame to
Monseigneur ? '

Yere lifted her eyes, like one who wakes
from a feverish sleep. She pushed her hair
back with a quick gesture and rose.

No ; none,' she answered curtly ; and she
took the note, and lighted a match, and
burned it.

VOL, II. L

The slight cold smile came on her face,

After all she thought, ' there is no merit
in virtue, when sin would disgust one. I
suppose the world is right to be capricious in
its award. Since it is only a matter of temperament
it is nothing very great to be guiltless.
If one like one's soul clean, like one's
hands, it is only a question of personal taste.
There is no right and no wrong — so they say.'

And her eyes filled, and her heart was
heavy ; for, to the young and noble, there is
no desert so dreary to traverse as the vast
waste of the world's indifference. They would
be strong to combat, they would be brave to
resist, but in that sickly sea of sand they can
only faint and sink and cease to struggle.

It is harder to keep true to high laws and
pure instincts in modern society than it was in
days of martyrdom. There is nothing in the
whole range of life so dispiriting and so unnerving
as a monotony of indifference. Active
persecution and fierce chastisement are tonics
to the nerves ; but the mere weary conviction
that no one cares, that no one notices, that

there is no humanity that honours, and no
deity that pities, is more destructive of all
higher effort than any conflict with tyranny or
with barbarism.

Vere saw very well that if she stooped and
touched the brink of vice — if she lent her ear
bo amorous compliment that veiled dishonour —
if she brought herself to the level of the world
she lived in, women would love her better, and
her husband honour her none the less.

What would he care ?

Perhaps he would not have accepted absolute
dishonour, but all the temptations that led
to it he let strew her path in all the various
guises of the times.

That night there was a great costume ball
at one of the legations. It had been talked of
for months, and was to be the most brilliant
thing of this kind that Paris had seen for
many seasons. All the tailors of fashion, and
all the famous painters of the day, had alike
been pressed into the service of designing the
most correct dresses of past epochs, and many
dusty chronicles and miniatures in vellum in
l2

old chateaux in the country, and old libraries
in the city, had been disturbed, to yield information
and to decide disputes.

The Prince and Princess Zouroff were
among the latest to arrive. He wore the dress
of his ancestor in the time of Ivan II., a mass
of sables and of jewels. She, by a whim of his
own, was called the Ice-spirit, and diamonds
and rock crystals shone all over her from head to
foot. Her entrance was the sensation of the
evening; and as he heard the exclamations
that awarded her the supreme place of beauty
where half the loveliness of Europe had been
assembled, that vanity of possession which is
the basest side of passion revived in him, and
made his sluggish pulses beat at once with
the miser's and the spendthrift's pleasure.

'Yes, you are right; she is really very
beautiful,' whispered Jeanne de Sonnaz in his
ear. ' To represent Ice it is not necessary to
have chien.'

Zouroff frowned ; he was never pleased
with being reminded of things that he said

himself.

The diicliesse herself had chien enough for
twenty women. She called herself a Sorceress,
and was all in red, a brilliant, poppy-like, flame-like,
Mephistopheles red, with her famous
rubies, nd many another jewel, winking like
wicked little eyes all over her, while a narrow
Venetian mask of black hid her ugliest features,
and let her blazing eyes destroy their worlds.

As a pageant the great ball was gorgeous
[ind beautiful ; as a triumph few women ever
knew one greater than that night was to Vere.
Yet the hours were tiresome to her. When
ber eyes had once rested on the pretty picture
that the splendid crowd composed, she would
willingly have gone away. She felt what the
eastern call an asp at her heart. The barrenness
and loneliness of her life weighed on
lier; and it was not in her nature to find
solace in levity and consolation in homage.
Others might do so and did do so ; she could
not.

'Madame, what can you want to be consent?'
said an old wit to her. 'You have
rendered every man envious and every woman

unhappy. Surely that is a paradise for you,
from which you can look down smiling in
scorn at our tears ? '

Vere smiled, but not with scorn.

I should be sorry to think I made anyone
unhappy. As for my success, as you call it,
they stare at the diamonds, I think. There
are too many, perhaps.'

Madame, no one looks at your diamonds,'
said the old beau. ^ There are diamonds enough
elsewhere in the rooms to cover an Indian
temple. You are wilfully cruel. But ice never
moved yet for mortals.'

Am I really ice ? ' thought Yere, as she sat
amidst the changing groups that bent before
her, and hung on her words. She did not
care for any of them.

They found her unusually beautiful, and
thronged about her. Another year it would be
some one else ; some one probably utterly unlike
her. What was the worth of that ?

There are tempers which turn restive before
admiration, to which flattery is tiresome, and
to which a stare seems impertinence. This

was her temper, and the great world did not
change it.

She moved slowly through the rooms with
the roc's eg gleaming above her breast,
and all the lesser stones seeming to flash
sundays from snow as she moved, while she
held a fan of white ostrich feathers between
her and her worshippers, and her train was
upheld by two little De Sonnaz boys dressed
as the pole star and the frost.

Her very silence, her defect usually to
society, suited her beauty and her name that
night ; she seemed to have the stillness, the
mystery, the ethereality of the Arctic night.

One grows cold as you pass, madame,'
whispered the great prince whom she had not
answered that day ; ' cold with despair.'

She made him a deep curtsey. She scarcely
heard. Her eyes had a misty brilliancy in
them ; she had forgotten his letter. She was
wondering if her life would be always like this
ball, a costly and empty pageant — and nothing
more.

Into the crowd there came at that momenta

Venetian figure with a lute. His clothes were
copied from those of the famous fresco of Baptista
Zelotti; he looked like Giorgione living once
more Some great ladies, safe in the defence of
their masks, were pelting him with blossoms
and bon-bons. He was laughing, and defending
himself with a gold caduceus that he had stolen
from a friend who was a Mercury. He was surrounded
by a maze of colours and flowers and
white arms. He was hurrying onward, but a
personage too great to be gainsaid or avoided
called out to him as he passed : ' My friend,
what use is your lute since its chords are
silent ? '

Monseigneur answered the Jouer-du-luth,
^ like the singer who bears it, it has a voice
never dumb for you.'

They were in a long gallery away from the
ball-room ; the windows opened on the lamplight
garden; the walls were tapestried; figures of
archers and pages and ladies worked in all the
bright fair colours of the Gobelin looms ; there
was a gilded estrade that opened on to a
marble terrace, that in its turn led to lawns,

cedar-circled, and with little fountains springing
up in the light and shadow.

The Venetian lute-player moved a little
backward, and leaned against the gilt railing,
with his back to the garden and the sky. He
touched a chord or two, sweet and far-reaching,
seeming to bring on their sigh all the sweet
dead loves of the old dead ages. Then he sang
to a wild melody that came from the Tchiganes,
and that he had learnt round their camp-fires
on Hungarian plains at night, while the troops
of young horses had scoured by through the
gloom, affrighted by the flame and song. He
sang the short verse of Heine, that has all the
woe of two lives in eight lines :

Ein Fichtenbaum steht einsam
Im Norton auf taller Hoi' :
In schlaf wert ; mit lesser Deck
Mullen in Eis und Scinde.

Er trait von einer Palme,
Die fern im Moreland
Einsam und schweigend traders
Auf pretender Felsenwand.

As the first notes touched the air, Vere
looked for the first time at the lute-player — she

saw in him Correze. As for himself, he had
seen her all night ; had seen nothing else even
while he had laughed, and jested, and paid
his court to others.

He too had felt chill as she passed.

And he sang the song of Heine ; of the love
of the palm and the pine. The royal prince
had, with his own hands, silently pushed a low
chair towards Yere. She sat there and listened,
with her face to the singer and the illumined
night.

It was a picture of Venice.

The lute-player leaned against the golden
balustrade ; the silver of falling water and
shining clouds were behind him ; around
against the hues of the Gobelins stood the
groups of maskers, gorgeous and sombre as
figures of the Renaissance. The distant music
of the ball-room sounded like the echoes of a
far-off chorus, and did not disturb the melody
of the song, that hushed all laughter and all
whispers, and held the idlest and the noisiest
in its charm.

Give us more, O nightingale ; ' said the

great prince. ' Son of Process ! I wish, we were
in the old times of tyranny that T could imprison
you close to me all your life in a golden
cage.'

In a cage I should sing not a note, monseigneur.
They are but bastard nightingales
that sing imprisoned,' said Correze.

All the while he did not look at Vere directly
once, yet he saw nothing except that fair, cold,
grave face, and the cold lustre of the diamonds
that were like light all over her.

Sing once more or recite,' said the prince
caressingly. ' Sing once more and I will reward
you ; I will bring you into the light of
the midnight sun, and after that you will never
bear the glare of the common day.'

Is that reward, monseigneur ? To be made
to regret all one's life ? ' said Correze.

And where he still leaned against the rail,
with the moonlit and lamplight gardens behind
him, he struck a chord or two lingeringly on
his lute as Stradella might have struck them
under the shadow of St. Mark, and recited the
Nuit de Mai ' of Alfred de Musset :

Pofete, prends ton Into
Le printemps wait ce soir

The 'ISTuit d'Octobre' is more famous because it
lias been more often recited by great actors ;
but the 'Nuit de Mai' is perhaps still finer, and
is noise true to the temper and the destiny of
poets.

All the sweet intoxication of the spring-tide
at evening, when ' le vin de la jeunesse ferment
cette nuit dans les veines de Dieu ' is but the prelude
to the terrible struggle that has its symbol
in the bleeding bird dying before the empty
ocean and the desert shore, having rent its
breast and spent its blood in vain.

The superb peroration, which closes one of
the noblest and most sustained flights of
imagery that any poet of any nation has ever
produced, rolled through the silence of the
room in the magnificent melody of a voice,
tuned alike by nature and by art to the
highest expression of human feeling and of
human eloquence.

Then his voice dropped low and stole, like
a sigh of exhaustion, through the hush around

him, in the answer of the poet ; the answer
that the heart of every artist gives soon or late
to Fate.

O muse, spectre insatiable,
Ne men demande pas si long,
Homme n'ecrit rien sur le sable
A Inhere ou passe I'aquilon.
J'ai vu le temps ou ma jeunesse
Sur vos livres etait sans cesse,
Crete a chanter comme un oiseau :
Mais j'ai suffer un dur martyre.
Et le moins que j"en pourra dire,
Si je I'essayais sur ma lyre.
La briserait comme un roseau.

When the words sank into silence, the silence
remained unbroken. The careless, the frivolous,
the happy, the cynical, were all alike smitten
into a sudden pain, a vague regret, and, for
that passing moment, felt the pang the poet
feels, always, till death comes to him.

Two great tears rolled down the cheeks of
the loveliest woman there, and fell on the
great diamonds. When the prince, who had
shaded his eyes with his hand, looked uj^, the
lute-player bowed Ioav to him and glided
through the crowd.

And I was just about to present him to

MOTHS.

the Princess Zonroff/ said the royal personage,
slightly annoyed and astonished. 'Well, one
must pardon his caprices, for we have no other
like him ; and perhaps his judgment is true.
One who can move us like that should not,
immediately on our emotion, speak to us as a
mere mortal in compliment or commonplace.
The artist, like the god, should dwell unseen
sometimes. But I envy him if I forgive him.'
For he looked at the dimmed eyes of Yere.

On the day following Correze left Paris to
fulfil his London engagements ; it was the
beginning of May.

When his name disappeared from the announcements,
and his person from the scenes
of the Grand Opera, then, and then alone, Vere
began to realise all that those nights at the
lyric theatre had been in her life.

When she ceased to hear that one perfect
voice, the whole world seemed mute. Those
few hours in each week had gone so far to
solace her for the weariness, the haste, the
barren magnificence, and the tiresome adulation
of her world ; had done so much to give

her some glimpse of the ideal life, some echo of
lost dreams, some strength to bear disillusion
and disgust.

The utter absence of vanity in her made
her incapable of dreaming that Correze avoided
her because he remembered only too well. She
fully thought he had forgotten her. What
was a morning by the sea, with a child, in the
over-full life of a man foremost in art and in
pleasure, consecrated at once to the Muses and
the world? She was quite sure he had forgotten
her. Even as he had recited the ' Nuit
de Mai' his eyes had had no recognition in
them. So she thought.

This error made her memory of him tender,
innocent, and wistful as a memory of the dead,
and softened away all alarm for her from the
emotion that possessed her.

He was nothing to her — nothing — excepta
memory ; and she was not even that to
him.

Paris became very oppressive to her.

That summer Prince Zouroff, by imperial
command, returned to his estate in Eussia, to

complete the twelve months' residence which
had been commanded him.

They were surrounded by a large house
party wherever they resided, and were never
alone. Vere fulfilled the social duties of her
high station with grace and courtesy, but he
found her too cold and too negligent in society,
and reproached her continually for some indifference
to punctilio, some oblivion of precedence.


Neither her mind nor her heart was with
these things. All of them seemed to her sc
trivial and so useless ; she had been born with
her mind and her heart both framed for greater
force and richer interest than the pomp of
etiquette and ceremonial, the victories of
precedence and prestige.

They had made her a great lady, a woman
of the world, a court beauty, but they could
not destroy in her the temper of the studious
and tender-hearted child who had read Greek
Tvith her dogs about her under the old trees of
Bulmer Chase. She had ceased to study
because she was too weary, and she strove to

VOL. II. M

steel and chill lier heart because its tenderness
could bring her no good 5 yet she could not
change her nature. The world was always so
little to her; her God and the truth were so
much. She had been reared in the old fashion
and she remained of it.

In the gorgeous routine of her life in
Russia she always heard in memory the echo
of the Nuit de Mai.

A great lassitude and hopelessness came,
over her, which there was no one to rouse
and no one to dispel. Marriage could never
bring her aught better than it brought her
already— a luxurious and ornamented slavery ;
and maternity could bring her no consolation,
for she knew very well that her children
would be dealt with as tyrannically as washer
life.

They remained that winter in Russia. The
Duke and Duchesse de Sonnaz came there fora
little time, and the Duchesse Jeanne wore
out her silver skates at the midnight fetes
upon the ice, a miracle of daring and agility,
in her favourite crimson colours, with her

sparkling and ugly face beaming under a hood
of fur.

Why does one never tire of you ? ' Zouroff
muttered, as he waltzed with her over the Neva
in one of the most gorgeous fetes of the winter
season.

Madame Jeanne laughed.

Because I am ugly, perhaps, or because,
as you said once, because, fai le talent che
m'encanailler. But then, so many have that.'

He said nothing, but as he felt her wheel
and dart with the swiftness of a swallow, elastic
and untiring as though her hips were swung
on springs of steel, he thought to himself that
it was because she never tired herself. ' Elle
se grise si Men he said of her when he had
resigned her to an officer of the guard, that
night. To se riser with drink, or with play, or
with folly, or with politics, is the talent of the
moment that is most popular. To be temperate
is to be stupid.

His wife, in her ermine folds, which clothed
her as in snow from head to foot, and without
any point of colour on her anywhere, with her

M 2

grave proud eyes that looked like arctic stars,
and lier slow, silent, undulating movement,
might have the admiration of the court and
city, but had no charm for him. She was his
own ; he had paid a price for her that he at
times begrudged, and she had humiliated him.
In a sense she was a perpetual humiliation to
him, for he was a man of intellect enough to
know her moral worth, and to know that he
had never been worthy to pass the threshold of
her chamber, to* touch the hem of her garment.
At the bottom of his heart there was always
a sullen reverence for her, an unwilling veneration
for her sinlessness and her honour, which
only alienated him farther from her with each
day.

Why would you marry a young saint ? '
said his friend, the Duchesse Jeanne, always to
him in derisive condolence.

Did he wish her a sinner instead ? There
were times when he almost felt that he did;
when he almost felt that even at the price of
his own loss he would like to see her head
drop and her eyes droop under some consciousness

of evil ; would like to be able once to cast
at her some bitter name of shame.

There were times when he almost hated
her, hated her for the transparent purity of
her regard, for the noble scorn of her nature,
for the silence and the patience with which she
endured his many outrages. 'After all,' he
thought to himself, 'what right has she to
be so far above us all ? She gave herself to me
for my rank, as the others gave themselves for
my gold.'

That cold glittering winter passed like a
pageant, and in the midst of it there came a
sorrow to her that had in it something of
remorse. The old Dowager Duchess at Bulmer
died after a day's illness ; died in solitude,
except for the faithful servants about her, and
was buried under the weird bent oaks by the
moors, by the northern sea. Vere lamented
bitterly. ' And she died without knowing the
truth of me ! ' she thought with bitter pain ;
and there was no message of pardon, no sign of
remembrance from the dead to console her.
We are an unforgiving race,' thought Vere,

wearily. ' I, too, cannot forgive. I can endure
but I cannot pardon.'

This loss, and the state of her own health,
gave her reason and excuse for leaving the
world a little while. She remained absent
while her husband waltzed with the Duchesse
Jeanne at Imperial balls and winter fetes,
and gave suppers in the cafes of which
the rooms were bowers of palms and roses,
and the drinkers drank deep till the red sunrise.


She remained in solitude in the vast,
luxurious, carefully heated palace of the Zouroff
princes, where never a breath of cold air penetrated.
Her health suffered from that imprisonment
in a hot-house, which was as unnatural
to her as it would have been to one of the
young oak trees of Bulmer Chase, or to one of
its moor-born forest does.

Another child was born to her, and born
dead ; a frail, pale, little corpse, that never
saw the light of the world. She wa long ill,
and even the tediousness and exhaustion of
lengthened weakness were welcome to her

since they released her from the court, from
society, and from her husband.

When she was at length strong enough to
breathe the outer air, the ice was broken up on
the Neva, and even in Russia trees were budding,
and grass pushing up its slender spears
through the earth.

The Duchesse de Sonnaz had long before returned
to Paris, and Prince Zouroff had gone
there for business. By telegram he ordered his
wife to join him as soon as she was able, and she
also travelled there with Madame Nelaguine
when all the lilac was coming into blossom in
the Tuileries and the Luxembourg gardens,
and behind the Hotel Zouroff in the Avenue du
Bois de Boulogne.

A year had gone by ; she had never seen
the face of Correze.

She had learned in midwinter by the public
voice that he had refused all engagements in
Russia, giving as the plea the injury to his
throat from the climate in past seasons. She
had seen by the public press that he had been
singing in Madrid and Vienna, had been to

Rome for this pleasure, and for months had
been, as of old, the idol of Paris.

As she entered the city it was of him once
more that she thought.

A flush of reviving life came into the paleness
of her cheek, and a throb of eager expectation
to her pulses as she thought that once
more in the opera-house she would hear that
perfect melody of the tones which had chanted
the Nuit de Mai. It was May now, she remembered,
and it was also night with her, one
long dark hopeless night,

Voila la belle Princesse ! ' said a work-girl
with a sigh of envy, as she chanced to stand
by the great gilded gates of the Hotel Zouroff,
as Vere went through them in her carriage,
lying back on the cushions of it with what was
the lassitude of physical and mental fatigue,
but to the work-girl looked like the haughty
indolence and languor of a great lady. She
was more beautiful than she had ever been,
but she looked much older than she was ; her
youth was frozen in her, the ice seemed in her
veins, in her brain, in her heart.

J

Prince Zouroff met her at the foot of the
staircase. He had been in Paris two months.

I hope you are not too tired ? ' he said
politely, and gave her his arm to ascend the
stairs. ' You look terribly white,' he added,
when they were alone, and had reached the
drawing-room. 'You will really have to
rouge, believe me.'

Then, as if remembering a duty, he kissed
her carelessly.

I hope you will feel well enough to go to
Orloff 's to-night,' he added ; ' I have promised
that you will, and Worth tells me that he has
sent you some new miracle expressly for it.
The party is made for the Grand Duke, you
know

I dare say I shall be well enough,' Vere
answered him simply. ' If you will excuse
me, I will go to my room and lie down a little
while.'

She went to her bedchamber where the
Slave ' of Gerome hung on the wall.

All these came this morning and yesterday
for madame,' said her maid, showing hera

table fall of letters, and notes, and invitation
cards, and one large bouquet of roses
amidst them.

Roses bad been around her all winter in
Petersburg, but these were very lovely unforced
flowers ; all the varieties of the tea-rose
in their shades and sizes, with their delicate
faint smell that is like the scent of old perfumed
laces, but in the centre of all these
roses of fashion and culture there was a ring
of the fragrant homely dewy cabbage rose, and
in the very centre of these, again, a little spray
of sweet-briar.

Yere bent her face over their sweetness.

Who sent these ? ' she asked ; and before
she asked she knew.

No one in the house did know. The
bouquet had been left that morning for her.
There was no name with it except her own
name.

But the little branch of sweet-briar said to
her that it was the welcome of Correze, who
had not forgotten.

It touched and soothed her. It seemed

very sweet and thoughtful beside the welcome
of her husband, who bade her rouge and goto
an embassy ball.

I always thought he had forgotten ! ' she
mused, and, tired though she was, with her
own hands she set the roses in a great cream-coloured
bowl of Pesaro pottery of Casali di
Lodi's, and had them close beside her couch
as she fell asleep.

She who had so much pride had no vanity.
It seemed strange to her that in his brilliant
and busy life, full of its triumphs and its
changes, he should remember one summer
morning by the sea with a child.

That night she went to the splendour of
Prince Orloff's fete; she did not rouge, but
Paris found her lovelier than she had ever
been; beneath the diamonds on her breast
she had put a little bit of sweet-briar that
no one saw. It seemed to her like a little
talisman come out to her from her old lost
life, when she and the world had been
strangers.

It was a great party in the Eue de Grenelle.

Correze was there as a guest ; he did not approach
her.

The next night she was in her box in
the opera-house. Correze sang in the Prophet.
She met the gaze of his eyes across
the house, and something in their regard
throbbed through her with a thrill like pain,
and haunted her. He had never been in
grander force or more wondrous melody
than he was that night. The Duchesse de
Sonnaz, who accompanied Vere, broke her
fan in the vehemence and enthusiasm of her
applause,

They say that there are two tenor voices,
la voix de clairon et la voix de clarinette she
said. 'The voice of Correze is the voix du
clairon of an archangel.'

Vere sighed, quickly and wearily.

Jeanne de Sonnaz looked at her with a
sudden and close scrutiny.

'Was there not some story of her and
Correze ? ' she thought.

The next evening Correze was free.

He dined at Bignon's with some friends

before going to the receptions of the great
world. As they left the cafe about ten o'clock
they saw Prince Zouroff enter with a companion
and pass on to one of the private
rooms ; he was laughing loudly.

Who is with him to-night ? ' said one of
the men who had dined with Correze. Another
of them answered :

'Did you not see her black eyes and her
mouth like a poppy ? It is Casse-une-Croute.'

Correze said nothing ; he bade his friends
good-night and walked down the Avenue de
I'Operaby himself, though rain was falling and
strong winds blew.

If he had followed his impulse he would
have gone back into Bignon's, forced open the
door of the cabinet particulier, and struck
Sergius Zouroff. But he had no right !

He returned to his own rooms, dressed, and
went to two or three great parties. The last
house he went to was the hotel in the Faubourg
St. Germain of the Due and Duchesse
de Sonnaz.

It was a great soiree for foreign royalties ;

Yere was present ; the last injunction of her
husband had been, as he had risen from the
dinner table : ' Gro to Jeanne's by one o'clock
to-night or she will be annoyed ; you will say
I am engaged ; there is a club-meeting at the
Manacles.'

Vere never disobeyed his commands.
'I cannot love or honour you she had
said to him once, 'but I can obey you,' and
she did so at all times.
The night was brilliant.
It recalled the best days of the perished
Empire.

The Princess Zouroff came late; Correze
saw her arrive, and the crowds part, to let her
pass, as they part for sovereigns ; she wore black
velvet only, she was still in mourning; her
white beauty looked as though it were made
of snow.

And he goes to a mulattoes ! ' thought
Correze.

Later in the evening she chanced to be
seated where there stood a grand piano in
one of the drawing-rooms. He saw her from

afar off; the Duchesse Jeanne passing him
hurriedly was saying to him at the time : ' If
only you had not that cruel selfish rule never
to sing a note for your friends, what a charm
of the hel im])rev%i you might give to my poor
little ball ! '

Correze bowed before her. 'Madame, my
rules, like all laws of the universe, must yield
to you ! '

He crossed the drawing-room to the piano.

Correze had never consented to sing professionally
in private houses.

The theatre is a different affair, but I do
not choose my friends to pay me money,' he
universally answered, and out of his theatre he
was never heard, unless he sang for charity, or
as an act of mere friendship. Even as a social
kindness it was so rare that anyone could induce
him to be heard at all, that when this night
he approached the piano and struck a minor
chord or two, the princely crowds hurried together
to be near like the commonest mob in
the world. Vere, only, did not move from
where she sat on a low chair beneath some

palms, and the four or five gentlemen about
her remained still because she did so.

She was some little distance from the instrument,
but she saw him as he moved towards it
more nearly than she had done since the recital
of the Nuit de Mai.

She saw the beautiful and animated face
that had fascinated her young eyes in the
early morning light on the rocks of the Calvados
shore. He had not changed in any way ; something
of the radiance and gaiety of its expression
was gone — that was all.

He sat down and ran his hands softly over
the keys in Schumann's ' Adieu.' She could
no longer see him for the plumes of the palms
and blossoms of the azaleas, that made a grove
of foliage and flowers which concealed the
piano, and there was a courtly crowd of gay
people and grand people gathered around him
in silence, waiting for the first sound of that
voice which, because it was so rarely heard,
was so eagerly desired. Hour after hour in
his own rooms he would sing to the old man
Auber, whom he loved, or in the rough studios

in the village of Barbican lie would give his
music all night long to artists whose art he
cared for, but by the world of fashion he was
never heard out of the opera-house.

He struck a few pathetic chords in B minor,
and sang to a melody of his own a song of
Heine :

In mein gar zu uncles Leben,

the song of the singer who is ' like a child lost
in the dark.'

Had she understood that he had a tale to
tell ? Had the song of Heine, that bewailed a
vanished vision, carried his secret to her ? He
could not know.

She sat quite still and did not lift her eyes.
The crowd moved and screened her from his
view.

Will she understand ? ' he thought, as the
applause of the people around him followed
on the breathless stillness of delight with
which they had listened. He heard nothing
that they said to him. He was looking at hei
in the distance, where she sat with the great

VOL. II. N

white fan dropped upon her knee and her eyelids
drooped over her eyes. He was thinking
as he looked :

And that brute goes with a quadroon to a
restaurant ! And when she had a dead child
born to her, he went all the while with Jeanne
de Sonnaz to masked balls and court fetes on
the ice ! '

Over his mobile face as he mused a dark
shadow went ; the shadow of passionate disgust
and of futile wrath.

His hands strayed a little over the keys,
toying with memories of Chopin, and Beethoven,
and Palestrina. Then to the air of a Salutaris
Hostia that he had composed and sung for a
great mass in Notre Dame years before, he sang
clear and low as a mavis's call at daybreak to
its love the Priere of a French poet.

She could not see him for the throngs of
grand people and giddy people who surged
about him in their decorations and their
jewels, but the first notes of his voice came
to her clear as a bird's call at daybreak to its
love.

He sang to a melody in the minor of his own
the simple pathetic verses of a young poet :

Prieee.

Ah ! si vous davies comme on pleure
De vivre seul et sans foyers,
Quelquefois devant ma demeure
Vous passers.

Si vous davies ce que fait maitre
Dans I'ame triste un pur regard,
Vous regarderiez ma f entre,
Comme au hasard.

Si vous davies quel baume apporte
Au coeur la presence d'un coeur,
Vous vous assoiriez sous ma porte,
Comme une soeur.

Si vous davies que je vous aime,
Surtout si vous davies comment,
Vous entreriez peut-etre meme
Tout simplement.

His voice sank to silence as softly as a rose-leaf
falls to earth.

Then there arose, like the buzz of a thousand
insects, the adoring applause of a polished
society.

Si vous davies que je vous circe,

Surtout si vous davies comme t;

Vous entreriez peut-etre meme

Tout simplement I

N 2

The words had filled the room with their
sweet ineffable melody, and had reached Vere
and brought their confession to her.

Her heart leaped like a bound thing set free;
then a burning warmth that seemed to her like
fire itself seemed to flood her veins. In someway
the great crowd had parted and she saw the
face of Correze for a moment, and his eyes met
hers.

He had told his tale in the language he knew
best and loved the most.

The next he was lost in the midst of his
worshippers, who vainly implored him to return
and sing again.

Yere tutored by the world she lived in, sat
quite still, and let her broad fan of white
feathers lie motionless in her hands.

Am I vile to have told her ? Surely she
must know it so well ! ' said Correze to himself
as he sent his horses away and walked through
the streets of Paris in the chill mists that
heralded daylight. 'Am I vile to have told her?
Will she ever look at me again ? Will she hate
me for ever ? Will she understand ? Perhaps

not. I sing a thousand songs ; why should one
have more meaning than another? She sees
me play a hundred passions on the stage. Why
should she believe I can feel one ? And yet —
and yet I think she will know, and perhaps
she will not forgive ; I fear she will never
forgive.'

He reproached himself bitterly as he walked
home after midnight through the throngs of the
Boulevards, He said to himself that if he had
not seen Sergius Zouroff entering Bignon's he
would never so far have broken his resolution
and failed in his honour. He reached his home,
disturbed by apprehension and haunted with
remorse. For an empire he would not have
breathed a profane word in the ear of the woman
who fulfilled his ideal of women, and he was
afraid that he had insulted her.

He did not go to his bed at all ; he walked
up and down his long suite of rooms in the
intense scent of the hothouse bouquets which
as usual covered every table and console in the
chambers.

For a less declaration than that, he had seen

great ladies glide veiled through his doors 5 nap,
they had come unasked.

But he knew very well that she would never
come one step on the way to meet him, even if
she understood.

And that she would even understand he
doubted.

The morning rose and the sun broke the
mists, but its rays could not pierce through the
olive velvet of his closed curtains. He walked
to and fro, restlessly, through the artificial light
and fragrance of his rooms. If she had been
like the others, if he had heard her step on
the stair, if he had seen that proud head veiled
in the mask of a shameful secrecy, what would
he have felt ? — he thought he would have felt
the instant rapture, the endless despair, that
men felt in the old days who sold their souls to
hell; the rapture that lived an hour, the despair
that endured an eternity.

When he threw back his shutters and saw
the brightness of morning, he rang and ordered
his horse and rode out into the Bois without
breaking his fast ; the rides were all moist with

the night's rain; the boughs were all green
with young leaf ; birds were singing as though
it were the heart of the provinces. He rode
fast and recklessly ; the air was clear and fresh
with a west wind stirring in it ; it refreshed
him more than sleep.

As he returned two hours later he saw her
walking in one of the allies des pistons ; she was
in black, with some old white laces about her
throat ; before her were her dogs and behind
her was a Russian servant. He checked his
horse in the ride adjacent, and waited for her
to pass by him.

She did pass, bowed without looking at him,
and went onward between the stems of the
leafless trees.

Then he thought to himself that she had
understood, but he doubted that she ever would
forgive.

When she was quite out of sight he
dismounted, gathered a late violet in the
grass where she had passed him, and rode
home.

She understood a little,' he thought,

enough to alarm, enough to offend her. She
is too far above us all to understand more.
Even life spent uy the side of that brute has
not tainted her. They are right to call her
the ice-flower. She dwells apart in higher air
than we ever breathe.'

And his heart sank, and his life seemed
very empty. He loved a woman who was
nothing to him, who could be nothing to him,
and who, even if ever she loved him, he would
no more drag down to the low level of base
frailties than he would spit upon the cross his
fathers worshipped.

The next night was the last of his engagement
at the Grand Opera. It was a night of
such homage and triumph as even he had hardly
ever known. But to him it was blank; the box
that was Prince Zouroff's was empty.

He left Paris at daybreak.

Yere did indeed, but imperfectly, understand.
As the song had reached her ear a
sudden flood of joy came to her with it ; it
had been to her as if the heavens had opened ;
she had for one moment realised all that her

life might have been, and she saw that he
would have loved her.

When she reached the solitude of her
chamber at home, she reproached herself;
she seemed to herself to have sinned, and
it seemed to her a supreme vanity to have
dreamed of a personal message in the evening-song*
of an eloquent singer. Did he not sing
every night of love — every night that the public
applauded the sorcery of his matchless music ?

That he might have loved her, she did believe.
There was a look in his regard that
told her so, whenever his eyes met hers across
the opera-house, or in the crowds of the streets,
or of society. But of more she did not, would
not, think.

Perhaps some memory of that one summer
morning haunted him as it haunted her, with
the sad vision of a sweetness that might have
been in life, and never would be now ; perhaps
a vague regret was really with him. So much
she thought, but nothing more.

The world she lived in had taught her
nothing of its vanities, of its vanities, of its

intrigues. She kept the heart of her girlhood.
She was still of the old fashion, and a faithless
wife was to her a wanton. Marriage might
be loveless, and joyless, and soulless, and outrage
all that it brought ; but its bond had been
taken, and its obligations accepted ; no sin of
others could set her free.

Her husband could not have understood
that, nor could her mother, nor could her
world ; but to Yere it was clear as the day,
that, not to be utterly worthless in her own
sight, not to be base as the sold creatures of the
streets, she must give fidelity to the faithless,
cleanliness to the unclean.

Even that caress lie had given to the roses
seemed to her treacherous and wrong.

Prince Zouroff stayed in Paris until the end
of June. There was no place that he liked so
well. Lady Dolly passed a few weeks at
Maurice's, and told her daughter with a little
malice and a little pleasure, that the son to
whom the Duchess of Mull had recently given
birth, to the joy of all the Northumbrian
border, had been baptised with, the name of
Vere, with much pomp at Castle Herbert.

My name and my father's ! ' said Vere
with coldest indignation. ' And her father
sold drink and opium to miners ! '

'And the brothers kill pigs — by machinery,'
said her mother. ' Certainly it is

very funny. If Columbus had never discovered
America would all these queer things have
happened to us? There is no doubt we do
get "mixed' as the lovely Fuschia would
say.'

Pick-me-up, as Duchess of Mull, had become
even a greater success, were that possible,
than Ischia Leach had been. No fancy frisk,
no little dinner, no big ball was anything without
that brilliantly tinted face of hers, with
the little impertinent nose, and the big radiant
audacious eyes that had the glance of the
street-arab, and the surprise of the fawn.
Frqjicis of Mull, tender, stupid and shy, lived
in a perpetual intoxication at the wonder of
his own possession of so much beauty, so much
mirth, and so much audacity, and no more
dreamed of opposing her wishes than, excellent
young man that he was, he had ever dreamed
of opposing his tutors and guardians. He was
under her charm in a blind, dazed, benighted
way that diverted her, and yet made her
heartily sick of him ; and she took the reins
of government into her own hands and kept

them. Not a tree was felled, not a horse was
bought, not a farm lease was signed, but what
the young duchess knew the reason why.

I'll stop all this beastly waste, and yet I'll
do it much finer, and get a lot more for my
money,' she said to herself when she first went
to the biggest house of all their houses, and
she did do so with that admirable combination
of thrift and display of which the American
mind alone has the secret.

The expenses of his household in six months
had been diminished by seven thousand pounds,
yet the Duke of Mull had entertained royalty
for three days at Castle Herbert with a splendour
that his county had never seen. She
was not at all mean, except in charities, but she
got her money's worth.

My dear old donkeys, your wife didn't go
pricing sprats all down Broadway without
knowing what to give for a red herring,' said
Her Grace, in the familiar yet figurative language
in which the great nation she had belonged
to delights.

Cooking accounts won't go down with

her,' said the bailiffs, and the butlers, the
housekeepers, the stud grooms, and the head
gardeners, to one another with a melancholy
unanimity at all her houses.

Do you know, Vere, she is a great success,'
said Lady Dolly one day. ' Very, very great.
There is nobody in all England one quarter so
popular.'

I quite believe it,' said Vere.

Then why won't you be friends with her ? '

'Why should I be?'

Well, she is your cousin.'

She is a woman my cousin has married.
There is no possible relation between her and
me.'

But do you not think it is always as well
to — to — be pleasant? '

No, I do not. If no one else remember the
oaks of the forests I do not forget them.'

Oh, the oaks,' said Lady Dolly. ' Yes,
they are mining there ; but they were nasty,
damp, windy places, I don't see that it
matters.'

'What a terribly proud woman you are,

Yera,' added the Princess Nadine, who was
every whit as proud herself, ' and yet you
think so little of rank.'

'1 think nothing of rank said Vere, 'but
I do think very much of race ; and I cannot
understand how men, who are so careful of
the descent of their horses and hounds, are
so indifferent to the contamination of their own
blood.'

If you had lived before '90 you would
have gone very grandly to the guillotine,'
said her sister-in-law.

I should have gone in good company,'
said Vere ; ' it is difficult to live in it nowadays.'


With what an air you say that,' said
Madame Nelaguine ; ' really sometimes one
would think you were a marquise of a hundred
years old, and in your childhood had seen
your chateau burnt by the mob.'

All my chateaux were burnt long ago,'
said Vere, with a sigh that she stifled.

Madame Nelaguine understood.

Vere was glad when the warmth grew greater

with the days of early summer, and her husband,
entering her morning-room, said abruptly :

The Grand Prix is run to-mOrrow. You
seem to have forgotten it. On Saturday we
will go down to Felicite. You will invite
Mdme. de Sonnaz and Mdme. de Mirilhac, and
anyone else that you please. Nadine will
come, no doubt.'

A ZourofiP horse won the Grand Prix, and
Prince Zouroflf was for once in a contented
mood, which lasted all the next day. As the
train ran through the level green country
towards Calvados he said with good-humoured
gallantry to his wife,

'You have not invited me, Vera. The
place is yours. I have no business in it unless
you wish for me.'

The place is always yours, and I am yours,'
she answered in a low tone.

From a woman who had loved him the
words would have been tender ; from her, they
were but an acknowledgment of being purchased.
His humour changed as he heard
them ; his face grew dark ; he devoted himself

to Mdme. Jeanne, who was travelling with
them; she had refused to stay at Felicite,
however, and had taken for herself the little
Chalet Ludoff at Trouville,

You are a bear ; but she makes sou dance,
Sergius,' whispered the duchess with malice.

Zouroff frowned.

Bears do something beside dancing,' he
muttered.

*Yes; they eat honey,' replied Mdme. de
Sonnaz. ' You have had more honey than was
good for you all your days. Now you have got
something that is not honey.'

Vere, with her delicate straight profile
against the light, sat looking at the green fields
and the blue sky, and did not hear what was said.

If she cared, or rather if she understood,'
thought the Duchess Jeanne, as she glanced
at her ; ' she would rule him instead of being
ruled ; she could do it ; but she would have to
keep the bear on hot plates — as I did.'

ZourofP, screened behind ' Figaro,' looked
from one woman to the other.

^ How grande dame she is,' he thought.

VOL. II, '

Beside lier Jeanne looks bizarre, ugly, almost
vulgar. And yet Vera bores me when she
does not enrage me, and enrages me when she
does not bore me ; while with the other, one is
always on good terms with one's self.'

^ I know what yon were thinking, my friend,'
whispered the duchess under cover of the
noise and twilight of the Martainville tunnel.
But ail the difference, I assure you, is that she
is your wife and I am Paul's. If she were not
your wife you would be furiously in love with
her, and were I your wife you would find me a
chatte enraged with frightful green eyes.'

Zouroff laughed grimly. He did not tell
her that his thoughts had been less complimentary
than those she had attributed to him.

I could find it in me to tell you your eyes
were green when you spite me by not coming
to Felicite,' he murmured instead.

Mdme. Jeanne twisted the ' Figaro ' about,
and said : ' Chut ! We shall meet more freely
at the little Ludoff house.'

Yere only heard the rustling of the ^ Figaro '
sheet. She was looking at the clock-tower of

St. Toiirin, and the summer glory of the forest
of Evreux.

Madame Jeanne stayed at Trouville. Vere,
with her husband, drove in the panier, with four
white ponies, that awaited them at the station,
along the shady avenue that leads out of the
valley of the Touches towards Villiers. The
sunshine was brilliant, the air sweet, the sea,
when the rise of the road brought it into view, was
blue as the sky, and the fishing fleets were on it.
Vere closed her eyes as the bright marine picture
came in sight, and felt the tears rise into them.

Only three years before she had been Yere
Herbert, coming on the dusty sands below, with
no more knowledge or idea of the world's
pomps, and vanities, and sins, and vices, than
any one of the brightened deer that were now
living out thei' happy lives under the oak
shadows of Buhner Chase. Only three years
before !

ZourofiP, lying back in the little carriage,
looked at her through his half-shut eyelids.

Ma chere ! he said with his little rough
laugh, ' we ought to feel very sweet emotions,

o 2

you and I, returning here. Tell me are you a la
hauteur de Occasion ? I fear I am not. Perhaps,
after a glass of sherry, the proper emotion may
visit me.'

Vere made no reply. Her eyes, wide-opened
now, were looking straight forward ; she drove
her ponies steadily.

What do you feel ? ' he persisted. ' It is
an interesting return. Pray tell me.'

I have ceased to analyse what 1 feel,' she
answered, in her clear cold voice. ' I prefer to
stifle it.'

You are very courteous ! '

'I think you have very often said yourself
that courtesy is not one of the obligations of
marriage. You ask me for the truth, I tell you
the truth.'

In three years of the world have you not
learned a pretty lie yet ! '

No. I shall not learn it in twenty years.'
Do you know that there are times when you
answer me so that I could beat you like a dog ?'

I dare say.'

Is that all you say ? '

'What should I say? If you beat me, it
would not hurt me much more than other
things.'

Zouroff was silent. He saw that she drove
her ponies on tranquilly, and that her blush-rose
cheek neither flushed nor paled. Master
of her body and mind, present and future,
though he was, he had a sullen sense of her
escaping him always, and he had as sullen a
respect for her courage and her calmness.

She would be a mother of young lions ! ' he
thought, as Lamartine thought of Delphine Gay,
and he felt bitter against her that his sons had
died.

They reached Felicite as the sun set over
the sea, where the low shores Ijy Caen were
hidden in a golden mist. The dressing bell
was ringing in the Gothic clock tower; the
tribe of canary-hued lacqueys were bending to
the ground in the beautiful cedar-wood hall,
with its pointed arches, and its illuminated
shields, which had captivated the young eyes of
Vere Herbert.

Madame Nelaguine had arrived before them.

and her welcome, wit, and careful tact saved them
from the terrors and the tedium of a tete-astute,

Are you glad to come here, Yera ? ' she
asked.

I am glad to see the sea,' answered Vere.
But I am tired of moving from house to house.
We have no home. We have only a number of
hotels.'

I think you will be happier than in Paris,'
said the Princess Nadine. ' You will have the
trouble of a house party, it is true ; but your
mornings you can spend in your garden, your
hothouses, with your horses, or on the sea ; you
will be freer.'

Yes,' assented Yera. She did not hear ;
she was looking through the great telescope on
the terrace down along the line of the shore ;
she was trying to discern amongst the broken
confused indentations of the rocky beach the
place where Correze had sung to her and to the
lark. But the sea and land were blent in one
golden glow as the sun went down behind the
black cliffs of western Calvados, and she could
discern nothing that she knew.

The dressing-bell was ringing, and she
hurried to her rooms. Her husband was
intolerant of any excuses of fatigue or indisposition,
and always expected to see her in full
toilette whether there was no one, or whether
there were fifty persons, at his table. Sometimes
it seemed to her as if all her life were
consumed in the mere acts of dressing and
undressing ; the paradise of other women washer
purgatory.

They dined alone, only enlivened by the
ironies of the Princess Nadine, who, when she
chose could be exceedingly amusing, if very
acid in her satires; when dinner was over
they went out on to the terrace where the
moonlight was brilliant. Some gentlemen from
the Chateau Villiers had ridden over to congratulate
Prince Zouroff on the achievement of
his racer. They were old friends of his, heroes
and disciples of ' le sport.' After a while they
talked only of that idol. Vere sat looking at
the moonlit Channel. Madame Nelaguine,
within the room, was playing quaint mournful
melodies of old German composers, and sad

Russian folk-airs. Felicite was very peaceful,
very lovely; on the morrow the glittering
noisy feverish life of the great world would
begin under its roof, with its house-party of
Parisians and Russians.

What a pity, what a pity ! One has not
time to breathe,' thought Vere, as she leaned
her head against the marble balustrade, and
rested her eyes on the sea.

'What a pity!' she thought, 'the loveliest
things in all creation are the sunrise and
the moonlight; and who has time in our
stupid life, that is called pleasure, to see
either of them ? '

A full moon made the narrow sea a sheet
of silver ; a high tide had carried the beach
up to the edge of the black rocks ; in the
white luminous space one little dark sail was
slowly drifting before the wind, the sail of
a fishing or dredging boat. The calmness,
the silence, the lustre, the sweet, fresh, strong
sea-scent, so familiar to her in her childhood,
filled her with an infinite melancholy.

Only three years, and how changed she was !

All her youth had been burnt up in her ; all
hope was as dead in her heart as if she were
already old.

She sat and thought, as the dreamy music
from within united with the murmur of the
sea; she had said truly that she now strove
to stifle thought, but her nature was meditative,
and she could never wholly succeed.

Perhaps I am not right, perhaps I do not
do all that I might,' she mused ; and her conscience
reproached her with harshness and
hatred against the man whom she had sworn
to honour.

Honour ! ' she thought bitterly : what a
world of mockery lay in that one little word.

Yet he was her husband ; according to his
light he had been generous to her ; she would
have to bear his children, and his name washer
name for ever. It would be better if they
could live in peace.

When his friends had ridden back to
Villiers, and his sister was still dreamily
wandering through many musical memories,
Sergius ZourofF was standing on the terrace,

looking seaward, and calculating how quickly
his yacht would be able to come round on the
morrow from Cherbourg. Midnight chimes
were sounding softly from the Flemish carillon
in the clock-tower of his chateau.

Vere looked at him, hesitated, then rose
and approached him.

^ Sergius,' she said in a low voice, ' I spoke
wrongly to you to-day ; I beg your pardon.'

Zouroff started a little, and looked down
in surprise at the proud delicate face of his
wife as the moonlight fell on it.

You are not going to make me a scene ? '
he said irritably and apprehensively.

On the lofty yet wistful mood of Vere the
words fell like drops of ice. A momentary
recollection had moved her to something like
hope that her husband might make her duty
less penance and less pain to her, by some sort
of sympathy and comprehension. She had
bent her temper to the concession of a
humility very rare with her, and this was
all her recompense. She checked the reply
that rose to her lips, and kept her voice serene
and low.

I do not wish to annoy you in any way
she said simply ; ^ I saw that I was wrong today
; that I had failed in the respect I owe
you ; I thought I ought to confess it and beg
your pardon.'

Zouroff stared at her with his gloomy
sullen eyes. She looked very fair to him,
as she stood there with the silvery rays of the
moon on her bent face and her white throat
and breast; and yet she had lost almost all
charm for him, whilst the ugliness of Jeanne
ie Sonnaz kept his sluggish passions alive
through many years. He stared down on
lier, scarcely thinking at all of her words,
blinking only as men do every hour and every
century, why it was that the pure woman
wearies and palls, the impure strengthens her
chains with every night that falls. It is a
terrible truth, but it is a truth.

How lovely she is ! ' he thought, ^ her
mouth is a rose, her eyes are stars, her breasts
ire lilies, her breath is the fragrance of
lowers ; and — I like Casse-une-Croute better,
who is the colour of copper, and smells of
smoke and brandy as I do ! '

That was what he was thinking.

Vere looked away from his face outward
to the sea, and laid her hand for a moment on
his arm.

It is three years ago,' she said wistfully,
I did not know very well what I did ; I was
only a child; now I do know — I would do
otherwise. But there is no going back. I
am your wife. Will you help me a little todo
what is right ? I try always '

Her voice faltered slightly.

Her husband's mind came out from his
thoughts of Casse-une-Croute and Duchesse
Jeanne, and realised that she was asking him
for sympathy. He stared ; then felt a passing
heat of sullen shame; then thrust away the
emotion and laughed.

My dear,' he said, with the cynical candour
that was rather brutality than sincerity,
three years ago we both made a great mistake.
Everyone who marries says the same. But
we must make the best of it. I am a rich
man, and an indulgent one, and that must
content you. You are a lovely woman, and

a cold one, and that must content me. If
you bear me living sons you will do all a wife
wants to do, and if I pay your bills and allow
you to amuse yourself in your own way I do
not see that you can complain of me. The
less we are alone, the less likely are we to
quarrel. That is a conjugal maxim. And
do not make me serious scenes of this sort.
They tire me, and I have no wish to be rude
to you. Will you not go to your room ? You
look fatigued.'

Vere turned away, and went into the
house. Her husband remained on the terrace
sending the smoke of his great cigar out on to
the moonlit sea-scented air.

She grows sentimental,' he said to himself,
it is better stopped at once. Can she not
be content with her chiffons and her jewels ? '

The following day the Parisian contingent
filled the chateau, and from morn till night,
the mirth and movement of a gay house-party
spoiled for the mistress of Felicite its woodland
beauty and its seashore freshness.

Never to escape from the world gre-\v as

wearisome and as terrible to Vere as the
dust of the factory to the tired worker, as
the roar of the city streets to the heart-sick
sempstress. Never to escape from it; never
to be alone with the deep peace of nature,
with the meditations of great dead poets, with
the charm of lonely and noble landscape —
this seemed to her as sad and as dreary as, to
the women who surrounded her, it would have
seemed to have been condemned to a year
without lovers and rivals, to a solitude without
excitement, and intrigue, and success. To
have a moment alone was their terror ; never
to have a moment alone was her torture. The
difference of feeling made a gulf between her
and them that no equality of beauty, and
accomplishment, and position could bridge.
There was no sympathy possible between
Yere and the pretty painted people of her
world.

She had no standing-point in common with
them, except her social rank. Their jargon,
their laughter, their rivalries, their pleasures,
were all alike distasteful to her. When she

drove over with them to Trouville at five
o'clock, and sat amidst them, within a stone's
throw of what the horrible pleasantry of society-calls
the jolies impure, she thought the levee
that the proscribed sisterhood held on those
sands was quite as good as the levee of the
great ladies around her.

In return women hated her. ' She is so
farouche,' they said. They only meant that she
was chaste, with that perfect chastity of thought,
as well as of act, which the whole tone and
tenour of society destroys in its devotees, and
ridicules in the few cases where it cannot be
destroyed.

Only Jeanne de Sonnaz professed to admire,
nay to love, her. But then everyone knew that
Madame Jeanne was a clever woman, who said
nothing, and did nothing, without a reason.

Try to be amiable — if you know how to be
amiable — with Madame de Sonnaz,' had been
the command of Zouroff to his wife on the first
day that she and the French duchess had met ;
and Vere had been indebted to the brilliant
Parisienne for many a word of social counsel.

many an indication of social perils, where the
stiff frivolities of etiquette were endangered, ora
difficult acquaintance required tact to conciliate
or rebuff it. Yere believed innocently
and honestly that Jeanne de Sonnaz liked her,
and was angered with and reproached herself
for not being sufficiently grateful, and being
unable fully to return the regard.

I think she is not a good woman,' she said
once, hesitatingly, to her sister-in-law.

Madame Nelaguine smiled a little grimly,
with a look that made her resemble her
brother.

My dear, do not be too curious about
goodness. If you inquire so much for it, it will
lead you into as much trouble as the pursuit of
the Sangreal did the knights of old ; and I am
afraid you will not find it. As for Jeanne, she
is always in her chair at the Messe des Paresseux
at St. Philippe, she turns a lottery
wheel at fetes for the poor, and her husband
has always lived with her. What more can
you want? Do not be too exacting.'

Yere vaguely felt that Madame Nelaguine

thought anything but well of her friend ; but
she got no more information, and Madame
Jeanne came most days over to Felicite and
said to all there, ' How lovely is Vera ! — odd,
cold, inhuman, yes ; but one adores her.'

One morning Vere, risen several hours before
her guests, felt a wistful fancy, that had often
visited her, to try and find again that little nest
of fishers' cottages where she had eaten the
cherries, and heard Correze sing in rivalry to
the lark. It was a wish so innocent and harmless
that she saw no reason to resist it; she
had her ponies ordered while the day was still
young, and drove out of her own park-gates
down to Deauville and Trouville, and through
them, and along the road to Villerville. At
Villerville she left her ponies, and walked with
no escort except Loris through the sea of
greenery that covers the summit of the tableland
of Calvados, while the salt sea washes its
base.

The name of this little village she had
never known, but, guessing by the position it
had been in above the sea, she knew that it

VOL. II. p

must have been somewhere between Grand Bee
and Villerville ; and she followed various paths
through orchards, and grass meadows, and
cornfields divided by lines of poplars, and at
last found the lonely place quite unchanged.

The old woman who had called him Saint
Eaphael was knitting b}^ the fence of furze;
the cherry trees were full of fruit ; the cabbage-roses
were pushing their dewy heads against
the tiny roses of the sweet-briar; sun-burnt
children were dragging nets over the short
grass ; the lark was singing against the sky.
Nothing had changed except herself.

No one of them recognised her.

The old woman gave her a frank good-morrow,
and the children stared, but no one of
them thought that this great lady, with the
gold-headed cane, and the old lace on her white
skirts, was the child that had sat there three
years before, and drunk the milk in its wooden
bowl, and worn the wooden shoes. She asked
for a little water, and sat down by the sweet-briar
hedge ; she was thinking of Correze. He
was seldom absent from her thoughts ; but he

remained so pure, so lofty, so ideal a figure in
her fancy, that his empire over her memory
never alarmed her.

He was never to her like other men.

She sat and listened, with divided attention,
to the garrulity of the old white-capped woman,
who went on knitting in the sun, against her
wall of furze, and chattered cheerfully, needing
no reply. They were hard times, she thought.
People had said with the Republic there would
be no poor, but she could see no difference herself
; she had lived through many of them —
meaning governments — but they were each as
bad as the other, she thought. Bread was
always dear. The monies were plentiful this
year ; the Republic had no hand in that ; and
the deep-sea fishing had been very fair too.
Did madame see that lark ? That little fool of
a bird brought her in as much as the monies ;
a gentleman had taken such a fancy to it that
he came and saw it was safe every summer,
sometimes oftener ; and he always left her five
napoleons or more. There were so many larks
in the world, or would be if people did not eat
p 2

them ; she could not tell what there was about
hers, but the gentleman always gave her money
because she let it live in the grass. Perhaps
madame had heard of him : he had a beautiful
face ; he was a singer, they said ; and to hear
him sing — she had heard him once herself — it
was like heaven being opened.

Yere listened with undivided attention now,
and her eyes grew soft and dim.

Does he remember like that ? ' she thought ;
and it seemed to her so strange that he should
never have sought to speak to her.

Does he come for the lark only ? ' she
asked.

'He says so,' answered the old woman.
He always takes a rose and a bit of sweet-briar.
The first day he was here there was a
pretty girl with him, that he bought sabots for,
because she had lost her shoes on the beach.
Perhaps the girl may be dead. I have thought
so sometimes ; it cannot be only for the lark ;
and he sits here a long time, a long time — and
he is sad. He was here a day in May — that
was the last.'

The warmth of a sudden blush came over
her hearer's proud face. She did not know
what she felt; she felt a thrill of alarm, a
strange pleasure, a vague trouble. She roseat
once, and left a little money in the lean
hand, as she bade the old peasant goodly,
called Loris from his chase of chickens, and
began to retrace her way to Villerville.

The old woman looked after her along the
flat path over the turf that went on under the
apple trees, and through the whitfield, till it
joined the road to Grand Bee.

'Now I think of it,' she muttered to her
knitting needles. ' That great lady has the
eyes of that tired child who had the wooden
shoes. Perhaps she is the same — only dead
that way — dead of being stuffed with gold, as
so many of them are.'

Granny, that is the Russian Princess from
Delicate,' said a fisherman who was coming up
over the edge of the rocks, hanging his nets on
the poles ; and • saw the tall slender figure of
Vere going through the tall green corn.

^ Aye, aye ! ' said the old woman. ' Well,

she has given me a gold bit. Never was a
bird that brought so much money from the
clouds as my lark.'

Her son laughed. ' I saw your other larkin
Trouville this morning ; he had come by the
Havre packet from England. He knew me,
and asked for you all. He said he would only
stay here an hour on his way to Paris, but would
soon be back again, and then would come and
see you. They took all my fish at the Eccles
Noires, just at a word from him to the porter
in the hall ! '

Tiens ! ' said the old woman thoughtfully,
and she kept her thoughts to herself.

Where have you been, ma helle matindle,'
said the Duchess Jeanne, as Yere went up the
steps of the sea-terrace to enter the anteroom
of Felicite, where the duchess, just downstairs
at twelve o'clock, was breathing the morning
air in the most charming of dressing gowns — a
miracle of swans' down and old Mechlin, with a
knot here and there of her favourite cardinal red.
She had passed the night there after a ball.
Zouroff was with her ; both were smoking.

^ I have been a long drive,' answered Vere ;
you know I rise early.'

Where did you go ? ' asked Zouroff
brusquely. 'I object to those senseless, long
drives in the country.'

I went as far as Villerville,' she answered.
I went to see a few fisher-people that live on
the coast near there.'

The hour before she would have said it
without any other thought than what her words
expressed.

Now her remembrance of what the woman
had said of Correze made her hesitate a little,
and a certain colour came in her face, that
both her husband and her guest noticed. It
seemed to the exquisite and loyal truthfulness
of her temper that she had been guilty of a
thing even meaner than a falsehood — a reservation.


It was where I lost my way the first day
I was with my mother,' she said ; and turned
to her husband, as making the explanation
only to him. 'Perhaps you remember?
Everyone laughed about it at the time.'

I think I remember said Zouroff moodily.
It could scarcely be worth a pilgrimage.'

Unless she have a carte tendre du jxiys/
said the duchess with a little laugh. ' Oh, a
million pardons, my sweet Vera; you never
permit a jest, I know.'

I permit any jest if it be witty, and have
no offence in it,' said Vere very coldly. 'If
you and the Prince will allow me, I will go indoors
; I am a little tired and dusty, and Loris
is more than a little.'

You had no intention in what you said,
Jeanne ? ' muttered Zouroff to his companion,
when Vere had entered the house. 'You
cannot possibly mean '

Mean ! Of your pearl of women, your
white swan, your emblem of ice ? What should
I mean ? It amused me to see her look angry ;
that is all. I assure you, if you made her
angry much oftener, she would amuse you
much more. Do you know, do you know, mon
vieux, I should never be in the least surprised
if, a few years later, you were to become a
jealous husband ! How funny it will be. But

really, you looked quite oriental in your wrath
just now. Be more angry more often. Believe
me, your wife will entertain you more. Especially
as she will never deserve it.'

Leaving that recipe behind her, fraught
with all the peril it might bear, Madame
Jeanne dragged her muslins and her Mechlin
over the marbles of the terrace, and went also
within doors to attend to the thousand and one
exigencies of a great spectacle which she had
conceived, and was about to give the world.

It was a Kermesse for the poor — always for
the poor.

Madame Jeanne, who was a woman of
energy, and did not mind trouble (she had
been one of the leaders of a regime that dressed
seven times a day), was the head and front, the
life and soul, of her forthcoming Kermesse, and
was resolute to leave no pains taken that
should make it the most successful fancy fair
of its season. She had already quantities of
royalties promised her as visitors. Poor
Citron had pledged herself to preside at a
puppet show ; ' toute la gomme ' would be golden

lambs to be shorn; and all the great ladies,
and a few of the theatrical celebrities, were
to be vendors, and wear the costumes and the
jewellery of "Flemish peasantry.

I have written to beg Correze to come, but
he will not,' she said once in the hearing of
Vere. ' He used to be at Trouville every year,
but he never comes now. I suppose some
woman he cares about goes elsewhere.'

She was very provoked, because she wanted
to have a grand mass at Notre Dame des Victoire,
and * queer ' afterwards ; and if Correze
would have sung some Noel or some Salutaris
Hostia, it would have brought hundreds more
napoleons into her plate for the poor ; so,
angrily, she abandoned the idea of the mass, and
confined herself to the glories of the Kermesse.

Yere, to whom the mingling of the poor
with a fancy fair, and the confusion of almsgiving
with diversion, always seemed as painful
as it was grotesque, took no heed of all the
preparations, and received in silence her
husband's commands to take a place in it. He
was peremptory, and she was always obedient.

She wrote to her people in Paris to send her
down all that was necessary, and after that
ceased to occupy herself with a folly she secretly
disapproved ; a mockery of the misery of the
world which made her heart ache.

The day before the first opening of this
Kermesse, which was to eclipse every other
show of the sort, Prince Zouroff, with his wife
and sister, and most of their guests, drove over
to Trouville to see the arrangements. Madame
Jeanne had erected her pretty booths in the
glades of the Comte d'Hautpoul, and had had
that charming park conceded to her for her
merry-go-rounds^ her lotteries, her diseurs de
lionnes aventures, her merry-andrews, and her
other diversions. Madame Jeanne's taste was
the taste of that Second Empire, under which
the comet of her course had reached its perihelion
; but the effect of her taste in this little
canvas city of pleasure was bright, brilliant,
and picturesque, and the motley colours in which
she delighted made a pretty spectacle under the
green leaves of the trees. Every booth had the
name of the lady who would officiate at it

blazoned above; and, above the lottery-booth
was written, ^ Madame de Sonnaz/ with a
scarlet flag that bore her arms and coronet
fluttering against the blue sky. The next was
the Marquise de Merilhac's, green and primrose;
the next the Countess Schondorff's, amber and
violet ; the next, of pale blue, with a pale blue
pennon, and the arms and crown in silver, was
the Princess Zouroff's.

It is exceedingly pretty,' said Vere, as she
stood before the little pavilion.

There were about ten others, all in divers
hues, with their pennons fluttering from tall
Venetian masts. The millions stood about ina
semi-oval where the sward was green and
the trees were tall. Servants were bringing in
all the fanciful merchandise that was to be for
sale on the morrow ; a few gendarmes had been
sent to protect the fair during the night ; some
children, with flying hair and fluttering skirts,
and some baby-sailors, were at play on the real
wooden horses which the duchess had had down
from St. Cloud.

It is extremely pretty,' said Vere courteously

to the protectress and protectress of it
11, and her eyes glanced round the semi-circle,
'immediately facing hers was a booth of white
tripes and rose-colour, looped up with great
garlands of pink roses ; the flag above had no
iris, but, instead, had a device in gold, a
squirrel cracking nuts, with the motto, ' Vivent
es hracconniers ! ' It was a device known to tout
Paris, except to Vere ; but even she knew the
lame underneath, which she read in the glow
)f the late afternoon light,

Mademoiselle Noisette.'

She stood in the entrance of her own
vision and saw it. Her face grew very white,
md a haughty indignation blazed in her grand,
grave eyes.

Madame Jeanne, standing by, and chattering
volubly, with her eyeglasses up to her eyes, saw
the look and rejoiced in her soul.

'It will be amusing,' she said to herself.
'• How very angry quiet people can be ! '

Vere, however, disappointed her. She
made no scene ; she remained still and tranquil,
and, in a clear voice, gave a few directions to

the servants who were arranging the contents
of her own stalls.

Madame Jeanne felt the pang an archer
knows when, at a great public fete, the arrow
aimed for the heart of the gold, misses its
mark, and strikes the dust.

It was to be chagrined like this that she,
Duchesse de Sonnaz, and daughter of the
mighty Maison du Merilhac, had stretched her
Second Empire vanities so far as to permit on
the grounds of her own Kermesse the Free
Lances of the Paris Theatres !

Nothing was said ; nothing was done ;
Madame Jeanne felt cheated, and her Kermesse
seemed already shorn of its splendour.

Vere remained very calm, very still; she
did not move outside the curtains of her own
azure nest.

Guilt hath pavilions and no secrecy,'
murmured the Princess Nadine, changing
the well-known line by a monosyllable, as
she glanced across at the pink and white
booth with its peccant squirrel. But she
murmured it only in the ear of a tried and

:rusty old friend, the Count Schondorff, who
for more years than she would have cared to
count had been her shadow and her slave, her
major-domo and her souffredouleur. ' I am
30 glad Vera takes it so well she thought
tvith relief.

A little later there came into the pink tent
I handsome woman in a black dress, with knots
)f pink ; she had a, dome-like pile of glistening
lair, gorgeous beauty, a splendid bust; she
looked like a rose-hued rhododendron made
human.

It was Noisette. She bustled and banged
about rather noisily and laughed loudly with
the men accompanying her, and scolded the
servants unpacking her packages.

Via la 'petite ! ' said Noisette as she looked
across the sward at the azure pavilion. She
always said the same thing when she saw the
Princess Zouroff.

In a good-natured scornful way Noisette
pitied her.

The sunset hour wore away, and Vere had
made no sign that she had seen the name

beneath the golden squirrel and the woman
whose badge the poaching-squirrel was.

Madame de Sonnaz was disappointed and
perplexed. She had seen the look in Vere's
eyes, and as she thought her cold, but not tame,
she wondered that she bore the insult so passively.
She drove homeward with them to
dine at Felicite and pass the night there.

Surely it will be a great success tomorrow,'
she cried gleefully. ' mon Dieu! how tired I
am — and how much more tired I shall be ! '

You are too good to the poor,' said Vere
with an intonation that the duchesse did not
admire.

She will be unbearable when she is a little
older,' she said to herself.

Vere reached her home, changed her dress
for dinner, went down with the light on her opals
and in her eyes — which had a dark stern lookin
them, new there — and bore herself throughout
the dinner with that cold grace, that lofty
simplicity, which had gained her the name of
the Alpine flower.

I suppose she accepts the thing with the

rest thought Madame Jeanne, as she sat on
the right hand of Zouroff ; and she felt bitterly-angry
with herself for having stooped to open
the pavilions of her fancy-fair to the dramatic
sisterhood, even though it were in the pure
interests of charity.

After dinner when her people were scattered
about — some playing cards, some merely flirting,
some listening to the choral and orchestral
music that the choice taste of Madame ISTela-
guide had always made a constant charm of the
house-parties of Felicite — Sergius ZouroflP, ashe
passed one moment from the card-room to tho
smoking-room, was stopped by his wife. Isle
stood before him with her head erect, her hands
crossed on a large fan of feathers.

'Monsieur,' she said very calmly, though
her voice was altogether unlike what it had
been on the terrace the night of their return ;
Monsieur, you desired me to take part in the
so-called Kermesse tomorrow ? '

Certainly,' said Zourofi", and he stared at
her.

'Then,' she said, very quietly still, 'you

VOL. II. Q

will see that the pavilion of the actress, Mademoiselle
Noisette, is taken down, or differently
occupied. Otherwise, I do not go to mine.'

Zouroff was silent from utter amazement.
He stared at her blankly.

What did you say ? ' he said savagely,
after some moments' silence. ' What did you
say ? Are you mad ? '

I think you heard very well what I said,'
replied Vere. ' All I have to say is that if
Mademoiselle Noisette be present I shall not
be. That is for you to decide.'

Then, without any more words, or even any
look at him, she passed on into the music room,
and joined some other ladies.

Sergius Zouroff stood and stared after her.
He felt much the same emotion as his ancestors
might have felt when some serf, whom they
had been long used to beat and torture, rose up
and struck them in return. What did she
know of Noisette ? He supposed that she must
know all, since she took no exception to the
two other actresses, who were permitted to take
part in the Kermesse of the grandes dames.

He did not care what she knew — or he
thought he did not ; but he cared bitterly that
she should dare to affront him and defy him,
dare to make him what he termed a scene,
dare to erect her will in opposition to his own.
And, amidst all the turbulence of anger, self-will,
was a sullen sense of shame ; a consciousness
that his life was no more fit to be mated
with hers than the lips of a drunkard are fit to
touch an ivory chalice of consecrated wine.

He sought his sister.

Nadine,' he said sharply, ' have you ever
told Vera of Noisette?'

Madame Nelaguine glanced at him with
some contempt.

I ? do I ever talk ? do I ever do anything
but what is rational ? '

Who has then ? '

'Has anyone? Probably le tout Paris,
everybody and nobody. What is the matter ? '

The matter ! She has made me a scene.
She declares that if Noisette be in her booth tomorrow,
she will not go to her own. She is
not the ignoramus that you think.'

Q2

^ After three years as your wife, Sergius,
how should she be ? I am sorry she has begun
to observe these things. I will speak to her if
you like. Unless you will withdraw Noisette.'

Withdraw Noisette ! Do you suppose she
ever listens to me? do you suppose I should
not be the laughing-stock of all society if I
quarrelled with her to please Vera's caprices ? '

If you annoyed your mistress to avoid
insulting your wife, society would laugh at
you ? Yes, I suppose it would. What a nice
world it is,' thought the Princess Nadine, as
she said aloud, 'I will see Vera. But she is
difficult to persuade. And you will pardon me,
Sergius, but here I do think she is rather right.
It is not good form to have Mademoiselle
Noisette or Mademoiselle anybody else of the
same — adventurous — reputation mixed up with
us in any affair of this kind.'

Perhaps not,' said Zouroff" roughly. ' But
Jeanne chose to have it so. She thought they
would attract. So they will, and it is no more
than having their carriages next yours in the
Bois.'

Or our lovers, and brothers, and husbands
in their dressing-rooms,' thought Madame
Nelaguine. ' You are not very just, Sergius,'
she said aloud. ' Jeanne may have a will of
her own, Noisette may have one, anybody ; but
not Yera.'

Yera is my wife,' said Prince ZourofP.

To him it seemed as clear as day that all
the difference between these women was thus
expressed.

*• You are quite resolved then,' she said
with some hesitation, 'not to see any justice
in this objection of Yera's, not to give into
it, not to contrive in some way to secure
the absence of Mademoiselle Noisette tomorrow
P '

Nadine Nicolaivna ! ' cried her brother
in wrath. ' After forty years that we have
been in this world, do you know me so little
that you want to ask such a thing? After
Yera's insolence I would drag Noisette to that
pavilion tomorrow if she were dying ! '

Will you drag your wife ? ' said Madame
Nadine, with a little disgust ; but Zouroff had

left her, and was on his way to the smoking-room.


He is nothing but a spoiled child grown big
and brutal thought his sister, with a little
shrug of her shoulders. ' How I wish he had
married a diahlesse like Jeanne

An hour later, when the ladies all went to
their rooms, Madame Nelaguine asked entrance
for a moment at Yere's door, and, without
beating about the bush, said simply :

My dear, Sergius has asked me to speak to
you about the Kermesse tomorrow. Now I
think I know all that actuates you, and I will
admit that my own feeling is quite with you ;
but it is too late now to alter anything ; Sergius
is obstinate, as you know; especially obstinate
if he fancy his will is disputed. This objection
of yours can only lead to scenes, to disputes, to
differences, very trying, very useless, and —
worst of all — very diverting to others. Will
you not abandon the point ? It is not you that
the presence of this person at the fair will
shame, but himself.'

Vere heard quite patiently ; her maid, who

did not understand English, ■ which Madame
Nelaguine, like most Eussians, spoke admirably,
was brushing out her thick bright hair.

It was my fault not to attend more to the
details of the thing,' she answered ; ' but I
had heard nothing of Mademoiselle Noisette
being permitted in the park. It is your brother's
shame certainly, but if I submitted to so publican
insult as that, I should be, I think, scarcely
higher than Mademoiselle Noisette herself.
We will not talk about it ; it is of no use ;
only, unless you can tell me that her name and
her flag are withdrawn from the pavilions, I do
not stir from here tomorrow. That is all.'

Ah ! ' ejaculated Madame Nadine, very
wearily. ' My dear, have you any conception
of what Sergius can be, can do, when he is
crossed? Believe me, I am not defending him
for an instant — no one could ; but I have seen
twice as long a life as you have, Vera, and I
have never seen any good come of the wife's
indignation in these cases. Society may go
with her for the moment, but it deserts her in
the long run. Her husband is embittered by

the exposure, and he has always a strength
she has not. The world does not insist that a
wife shall have Griselda's virtue or G-riselda's
affection, but it does insist that she shall have
Griselda's patience. Noisette, and a thousand
Rosettes, if your husband forget himself for
them, cannot hurt you in the eyes of the world ;
but one rash moment of indignation and rupture
may be your ruin.'

Yere lifted her face, with all its loosened
hair like a golden cloud about it, and her face
was very cold and contemptuous, and almost
hard in its scorn.

Dear Princess,' she said very briefly and
chillily, ' I did not wish to trouble you on
this subject. You are not to blame for your
brother's vices, or for my marriage. Only,
pray understand, since we do speak of it, that
my mind is quite made up. If Mademoiselle
Noisette be permitted to be present at the park
tomorrow, I shall be absent. I was a child
three years ago, but I am not a child now.'

Madame Nelaguine sighed.

Of course you know everything, dear ;

women always do, even when nobody says a
syllable to them. You are wronged, wounded,
insulted ; all that I admit with sorrow. But
what I want to persuade you is, that this
method of avenging yourself will do no sort of
good. You will only give a triumph to
Noisette ; you drill only give a laugh to your
friends and your enemies — for friends and
enemies are so sadly alike in the way they look
at one's misfortunes ! My dear child, society
has settled all these things ; the helles petites
are seen everywhere except just in our drawing-rooms
; they will be soon there also, perhaps.
The fiction of society is, that we know nothing
of their existence ; the fact of society is, that
they are our most powerful and most successful
rivals, and dispute each inch of ground with
us. Now, wise women sustain the fiction and
ignore the fact; like society. I want you to
be one of these wise ones. It ought to be easy
to you, because you have no love for Sergius.'

A very bitter look came for the moment on
Vere's face. She raised her head once more
with a very proud gesture.

Let us say no more, Nadine. I have self-respect.
I will not be a public spectacle vis-a-vis
with one of Prince Zouroff's mistresses.
He can choose whether he sees her in her
pavilion, or me in mine. He will not see both.
Good-night.'

Sorrowful, discomforted, baffled, but knowing
that her sister-in-law had justice on her
side, though not prudence, the Princess Nela-
guide went to her own chamber.

'War has begun,' she thought; and she
shuddered, because she knew her brother's
temper. When he was ten years old she had
seen him strangle a pet monkey because the
small creature disobeyed him in its tricks.

Madame Nelaguine awoke in the morning
feverish with anxiety. She was not a good
woman, but she had honour in her, and was
capable of affection. She had begun to detest
her brother, and to care much for his wife.
The day was clear and warm, not too warm ;
and a strong soft wind was tossing the white
foam of the sea, and would blow brightly on
the pretty pennons of the Kermesse pavilions.

Vere rose earlier than anyone, as her habit
was, and walked out into the garden with
Lor is b}^ her side. She was not in any way
anxious ; her mind was made up ; and, of anything
that her husband might say or might do,
she had no fear.

At the utmost he could but kill me,' she
thought with a little contemptuous derision ;
and that would not matter very much. No
Herbert of the Border was ever insulted yet.'

She walked over the grass above the sea,
where the rose thickets grew, and the whole
coast could be seen from Honneur to the others
de Calvados. It was rather a rampart
than a terrace, and the waves beat and fretted
the wall below.

It was only nine o'clock ; no one except
herself rose so early at Felicite.

As she walked a stone fell at her feet. A
letter was tied to it. Instinctively she took it
up, and on the note she read her own name.
She hesitated a moment, then opened it. The
writing she did not know. It was very brief,
and only said:

Mademoiselle Noisette was called to Paris
last night. The Princess Zouroff is entreated
by a humble well-wisher not to disturb herself
any more on this matter. She can honour the
Kermesse in safety.'

Yere read it, and stood still in wonder.
Could it be from the actress herself?

The writing was that of a man, elegant, free,
and clear.

She leaned over the grey stone wall of the
garden and searched the shore with her eyes.
In a little skiff was a fisherman rowing hard.
She called to him but he did not hear, or
would not hear. She did not see his face, as it
was bent over the oars. ' He must have thrown
me the letter,' she thought.

She felt rather annoyed than relieved. She
would have been glad to have had cause to
strike the blow in public ; she was weary of
bearing patiently and in silence the faithless
life of Zouroff.

If it be true, I am sorry,' she thought
doubtfully, and then felt angered that anyone
should presume so to address her, and

tore the note in two and threw it in the sea
below.

She went and paid her morning visit to
her horses, to her hot-houses, to the rest of the
gardens, and at eleven returned with neither
haste nor interest to the house.

People were just downstairs ; being a little
earlier that day by reason of the Kermesse.
The Duchesse Jeanne — already in her Flemish
dress with wonderful gold ornaments that she
had bought once of a Mechlin peasant, an
exquisite high cap, and bright red stockings
and real sabots — was very eagerly chattering,
explaining, laughing, frowning, vociferating.

ZouroflP stood behind her, his brows as dark
as a thunder-cloud.

When his wife came in sight a silence fell
upon the group about the wooden, shoes of the
duchesse.

Madame Nelaguine, whose grace of tact
never deserted her, turned and said easily and
indifferently to Vere :

There is a great revolution in our toy
kingdom, Vera. Mademoiselle Noisette, the

actress, was called to Paris by the first train
this morning. The loss is irreparable, they
say, for no one could act Punch with a handkerchief
and a penny whistle like this famous
person.'

Vere was silent ; those who watched
her countenance could see no change in it.
She felt for the moment both anger and disappointment,
but she showed neither.

ZouroflP's face was very sullen. For the
first time in his life he had been baffled.

To whom do you accord the pavilion ? '
Vere said very quietly to the duchesse, who
shrugged her shoulders, and raised her eyebrows
in a gesture of despair.

*The committee at Trouville will have
arranged it,' she answered. ' There has been
no time to consult us.'

Vere said in a low tone to her sister-in-law :
This is true ? Not a trick ? '

Quite true, thank heaven ! ' said Madame
Nelaguine. ' I have seen the telegram — you
can see it ; her director has a new pensionnaire
who is to play in her own great part, Julie

Malmaison ; she was beside herself they say ;
quite raving ; nothing would keep her

At that moment a note was taken to the
Duchesse Jeanne, who read it and then leapt
for joy in her red stockings and her wooden
shoes. It was from one of her male committee,
who wrote from the Union Club at Trouville.

Correze has come,' she shouted. ' He was
here an hour or two yesterday, and promised
them to return for the fair, and he has returned,
and they have got him to take Noisette's place !
Oh dear ! the pity that we did not have the
Mass ! — but he is inimitable at a fair, he always
can sell any rubbish for millions ; and as a
diseur de bonnes aventures he is too perfect ! '

A slight colour came into Vere's cheeks,
which Madame de Sonnaz noticed, although
no one else did. Vere understood now who
had penned the letter ; who had been the
fisher rowing.

She was bewildered and astonished; yet
life seemed a lovelier thing than it had seemed
possible to her a few hours before that it ever
could look in her sight.

Scries ZouroflF said nothing ; he had been
baffled, and he did not know with whom to quarrel
for his defeat. He said nothing to his wife,
but when his eyes glanced at her they were
very savage, dull, and dark. He would have
given half his fortune to have had Noisette still
in Trouville.

Dearest Princess,' whispered Madame de
Sonnaz to her, taking her aside; 'now this
woman is so providentially gone you will come,
won't you ? Pray do not make a scene ; your
husband is more than sufficiently annoyed as it
is. It was all my fault. I ought to have
objected more strongly to the permission to
hold her pavilion, but you see the world is so
indifferent nowadays, and indeed — indeed — I
never fancied you hew,'

A glow of impatient colour flushed Yere's
face. She could bear her husband's infidelities,
but she could not endure to hear them alluded
to by another woman.

I will come,' she said briefly, ' if you think
it will prevent any annoyance. The sole object
of life seems to be to avoid what you all call

Of course it is men's,' said Madame Jeanne.
Women like scenes, but men hate them ;
probably because they are always in the wrong,
md always get the worst of them. I entirely
felt with you about Mademoiselle Noisette, but
don't think I should have done as you did,
spoken as you spoke. It is never worth while.
Believe me it never makes the smallest atom of
difference.'

Who told you what I did, what I said ? '
asked Vere suddenly, looking her friend full in
the eyes.

Madame de Sonnaz was, for the moment, a
little disconcerted.

Only two people knew,' said Vere ; ' Nadine
md her brother.'

'It was not Nadine,' said the duchesse,
recovering her composure, and laughing a very
little. ' You ought to know by this time. Vera
I may call you Vera? — that your husband
las very few secrets from me. Sergius and I
have been friends, so long — so horribly long, it
makes me feel quite old to count the years
since I saw him first driving his Orloffs down

VOL. II. R

the Bois. 0, le head temps ! Morn was not
dead, Paris was not republican, hair was not
worn flat, realism was not invented, and I was
not twenty. 0, le head temps ! Yes, Sergius
told me all about the scene you had made him
he called it a scene ; I told him it was proper
feeling and a compliment to him, and he was
extremely angry, and I was wretched at my
own thoughtlessness. My dear, you are so
young ; you make mistakes ; you should never
let a man think you are jealous, if you are so.'

^ Jealous ! ' All the blood of the Herbertss
of the Border leaped to fire in Yere's veins.
As she turned her face upon Madame de Sonnaz
with unutterable scorn and indignation on it,
the elder woman did that homage to her beauty
which a rival renders so reluctantly, but which
is truer testimony to its power than all a lover's
praise. Madame Jeanne gave a little teazing
laugh.

Jealous, my fairest ! why, yes. If you
were not jealous why should you have insisted
on the woman's absence ? '

^ There can be no jealousy where there is

only abhorrence,' Vere said quickly, with her
teeth shut. ' You do not seem to understand ;
one resents insults for oneself. An insult like
that is to a woman like the insult that a blow
is to a man.'

Madame Jeanne shrugged her shoulders.

My love ! Then we are all black and blue
nous autres. Of course in theory you are quite
right, but in practice no one feels in such a
way ; or, if anyone feels, she says nothing.
But we will not discuss it. The woman is
away. You must come now, because you
said you would occupy your pavilion if hers
were taken down. We do not take it down
because there is not time ; but we have given
it to Correze. You know him — in society I
mean ? I think so ? '

Scarcely,' said Vere ; and she felt a glow
of colour come over her face because she was
sure that the note had come from him, and
that the fisher pulling his boat had been one
with the lute player of Venice.

She has known him, and she does not want
to say so,' thought Madame Jeanne, swift to

B 2

observe, swift to infer, and, like all experienced
people, always apt to make the worst deductions.

But the bells of the horses, harnessed like
Flemish teams to the breaks and other carriages,
were jingling in the avenue, and the
tasselled and ribbon postilions were cracking
their whips. There was little time to be lost,
and she reluctantly let Vere escape her. As
she drove along with Sergius ZourofF in his
mail phaeton to Trouville, she gave him her
own version of Vere's conversation. She exaggerated
some things and softened others;
she gave him full cause to feel that his wife
abhorred him, but she said nothing of Correze,
because she was a prudent tactician, and never
touched a fruit till it was ripe to fall.

It was possibly merely my fancy,' she reflected,
as in all the whirl of her lottery, and all
the pressure of her admiring throng, she found
time to cast many glances at the tent of Correze,
and saw that he was never beside his opposite
neighbour. He was everywhere else — a miracle
of persuasiveness, a king of caprice, the very
perfection of a seller and a showman, dealing

in children's toys with half the shops of the
Palais Royal emptied into his booth, and
always surrounded by a crowd of children, on
whom he rained showers of sparkling sweetmeats
— but he was never beside the Princess
ZourofF. He had taken down the pennon of
Noisette, and in its stead was one with bis own
device ; a Love whose wings were caught in a
thorny rose-bush. He told fortunes he made
himself a clairvoyant, he mystified his clients,
and made them happy. He was dressed like a
Savoyard, and carried an old ivory guitar, and
sang strange, sweet, little ditties in a dulcet
falsetto. He was the Haroun al Easchid of
the Trouville Kermesse, and poured gold into
its treasuries by the magic of his name and his
voice, the contagion of his laughter and his
gaiety. But he never once approached the
Princess Zouroff; and no one could tell that,
as he roamed about, with his five-year-old
adorers flocking after him, or prophesied from
a bowl of water the destinies of fair women, in
his heart he was always saying, ' Oh, my wild
white rose ! Why did I not gather you and

keep you while I could. You are a great lady,
and they all envy you, and all the while you
are outraged and desolate ! '

Vere sat in her azure pavilion, and looked
fitter to be a Lily of Stoat presiding at a
tournament of knights. She bought most of
her own things herself, and gave them away to
children.

The sun was strong, the heat was great, the
chatter, the clamour, the many mingling and
dissonant sounds, made her head ache, and
the bright rainbow-like semicircle of tents, and
the many colours of the changing multitude,
often swam as in a mist before her eyes.

Could it, after all, have been he who had
warned her ? she began to doubt. It was too
improbable. Why should he care ? She told
herself that she had been conjecturing a vain
and baseless thing. Why should he care ?

He was merely there, in the pavilion that
was to have been Noisette's, because, no doubt,
all artistes were his comrades ; and he replaced
the actress from the same good fellowship ashe
sold roses at Madame Lilas' stall, and ivory

carvings at Cecil Charlton's. It could have
been nothing more.

He never approached her. She could see
his graceful head and throat above the throng,
as he sold his puppets and his playthings ; she
could hear the thrill of his guitar, the echo of
his voice, the delighted shouts of his childhood,
the laughter with which women pelted
him with flowers as in Carnival time ; she could
see him nearly all day long, as he stood under
Noisette's rosy garlands, or wandered with jest
and compliment through the fair. But to her
he never came. At sunset he was missing.
The flag, with the Love caught in the thorns of
the roses, was down ; a negro stood like a
statue cut in ebony between the pink curtains
of Noisette's tent. It was a slave of Soudan
who had long been a free man in his service ;
a picturesque figure, well-known to Paris. He
did not speak, but he had a scroll in his hands,
a scroll that hung down, and on which was
written, ' Desole de vous quitter, mais ^m pauvre
hither nest pas maitre de soi-meme.^

It was charming of Correze,' said Madame

de Sonnaz. ' Very charming of him. He had
only twenty-four hours his own between the
last night at Covent Garden and the royal fetes
in Brussels. And he spent those twenty-four
hours in answering my call and coming to
help our Kermesse. He is gone to Belgium
to-night. It was really charming. And the
use he has been ! the impetus he gave ! the
money he has got for us ! I shall always be
grateful to him.'

Whilst she spoke, she thought nevertheless,
It is very eloquent that he should never have
gone near her. They must understand each
other very well, if at all. He never took all
that trouble for nothing, and no mere accident
could have been so perfectly aproj^osJ'

The house party and the host of Felicite
dined at ten o'clock that night with her at the
Chalet Ludoff.

Yere, pleading great fatigue, drove homeward
in the pale moonlight, through the cool
air, sweet with the scent of the apple orchards
and the sea. Madame Nelaguine accompanied
her : neither spoke.

In Paris at that hour Mademoiselle Noisette,
arriving hot with the sun, enraged with the
dust, furious at leaving Trouville, and ready
for murder if she could not have vengeance,
burst, as the hurricane and the storm burst
over lake and mountain, into the peaceful
retreat where the director of her theatre passed
his leisure moments, and found that there was
no new loensionnaire to play Julie Malmaison ;
that her greatness was on the same unapproachable
pinnacle it had occupied ever
since her debut; that her director and her
public alike were the most loyal and submissive
of slaves; that, in a word, she had been
hoaxed.

Qtii done ct voulii me mystifier ! ' she
screamed a thousand times, and plunged into
abysses of suspicion, and was only pacified by
promises of the Chef de Surety and his myrmidons.
But she stormed, raged, cursed, wept,
foamed at the mouth for half an hour, and then
forgot the Prefer de Police, and let herself
be taken down to Enghien-les-Bains in time
for dinner by a German Margrave, whom she

pillaged from patriotism, and with whom she
stayed a whole week.

The Duchess Jeanne, excruciatingly tired
as she was the next morning, felt her spirits
good, and her limbs elastic, as she got into
her red and black stripes and a red cap — vrai
bonnet rouge, as she said — and displayed her
skill in the waters of Trouville, and on them
with her canoe. She had got a clue to follow ;
a mere misty, intangible thread at present, but
still something on which to spin her web.

Correze was the hero of the adventure of
the lost shoes and stockings, and what adventure
is ever so sweet in a woman's life as
the first ? ' thought this experienced being, as
she lay stretched out on the waves, or made
her canoe shoot over them. ' Correze comes
for a few hours down here ; that very day she
drives off before we are up, and makes her
pilgrimage to the place of the lost shoes ; when
we interrogate her she colours and grows
angry ; he takes Noisette's pavilion — Noisette's,
whom he detests — I have heard artists say so
a hundred times. He is charming, he is exquisite,

he is adorable; and all within a few
yards of Vere, to whom he nevertheless never
speaks ! Something there must be. The thing
to do is to bring them near one another ; then
one would see, inevitably.'

And, lying on her back on the sunny water,
she resolved to do so. What did she want?
She did not know precisely. She wanted todo
what the moths do to ermine.

Pretty green Ischl was growing dusky in the
evening hours.

Ischl, like a young girl, is prettiest in the
morning. Its morning light is radiant and
sweet; of the sunset it sees little or nothing,
and its evenings are sad-coloured ; the moon
seems a long time coming up over these heights
of pine-forest, but, when it does come, it is very
fair, shining on the ripple of the rapid Train
with the lights of the houses on the banks
twinkling in the moss green surface of the
stream, with every now and then a gentle
splash breaking the silence as the ferry-boat

goes over from side to side, or a washing-barge
is moored in closer to the shore.

Ischl is calm, and sedate, and simple, and
decorous. Ischl is like some tender fair wholesome
yet patrician beauty in a German picture,
like the pretty aristocratic Charlotte in Kaul-
bach's picture, who cuts the bread and butter,
yet looks a patrician. Ischl has nothing of the
helle petite, like her sister of Baden, nothing of
the titled cocodette like her cousin of Monaco.
Ischl does not gamble, or riot, or conduct
herself madly in any way ; she is a little old-fashioned
still, in a courtly way; she has a
little rusticity still in her elegant manners ;
she is homely whilst she is so visibly of the
fine fleur of the vieille souche.

She is like the noble dames of the past ages,
who were so high of rank and so proud of habit,
yet were not above the distilling-room and the
spinning-wheel, who were quiet, serious, sweet,
and smelt of the rose leaves with which they
filled their big jars.

Ischl goes early to bed and early rises.

It was quite quiet on this August evening.

It was very full, but its throng was a polite
and decorous one. Groups walked noiselessly
up and down under the trees of the esplanade ;
music had long ago ceased from sounding;
men and women sat out on the balconies with
dimly-lit chambers behind them; but there
was no louder sound than a dog's bark, or a
girl's laughter, or the swish of an oar in the
river.

From the road of the north-east, and over
the grey bridge, with its canopied saint, there
came suddenly, with a sound of trampling
hoofs, whips cracking in air, and clanging posi>
horns, that harshly broke the repose of the
twilight hour, a travelling carriage with four
horses, contains two ladies and a dog.

The carriage had come from Salzburg. It
was open, for the night was mild, and, as a
miracle of kindness, did not rain. A man,
leaning in a casement of the Kaiserinn Elizabeth,
recognised both ladies and dog as the heavy
landau rolled off the bridge across the road, then
disappeared round the corner of the building.
It was followed by another carriage full of

servants. The host of the Kaiserinn Elizabeth
with all his officials small and great, precipitated
themselves into the street, bowing bareheaded,
as the fiery horses were pulled up
before the door.

The quick twilight fell ; the valleys from
dusky grew dark ; the Rainwater began to
look like a shoal of emeralds under the sundays ;
a white round moon began to show itself
behind the hills ; the forms of people walking
on the banks became indistinct, though the
murmur of their voices and laughter grew
clearer ; otherwise it was so still that he who
leaned over his balcony and saw the carriage
arrive, could hear the swish of the barge-ropes
as the water moved them, and the sound of a
big dog lapping in the river underneath him.

^ It is destiny 1 ' he said to himself. ' For
two whole years I have avoided her, and fate,
taking the shape of our physicians, sends us
here ! '

He leaned over the balcony, and watched
the water flow under the shadows of the houses
and the trees.

Is it Duchesse Jeanne's doing ? ' he
thought, with that unreasoning instinct which
in some men and women guides their fancy to
true conclusions. ' That is nonsense, though ;
what can she know ? And yet I remember, at
that ball, after the Nuit de Mai, she seemed to
suspect something. She laughed ; she told me
I alone could thaw ice '

At that moment an Austrian march, stoutly
brayed under the windows of the Kaiserinn
Elizabeth seemed to his ears to fill the night
with discord.

He started to his feet with impatience and
in suffering, as the sounds grated in his ears,
and rapidly shut his windows one after another,
to exclude the sound.

Where is Anatole ? ' he muttered irritably,
as he paced the dull chambers allotted to him.
He had arrived only twenty minutes earlier
from Linz. He had not given his name, and
for once found a spot where he was not known
by sight to all. Instead of his servant, Anatole,
one of the servants of the hotel tapped at the
door, and, entering his chamber which he himself

lead only entered a few minutes before,
presented him, with many apologies, a printed
document to sign. It was the schedule and
exordium with which Ischl, in childlike faith
in the integrity of humanity — or astute faith
in its snobbery — requires from each of her
visitors his declaration of rank and riches, and
fines him that he may support her promenades
and her trinkhalle according to his social
means and place.

He glanced at the paper absently, then took
up his pen. Under the head of residence, he
wrote Tin pen partout ; under that of rank he
wrote artiste, and under that which required
the declaration of his name he wrote ' Correze,'

Then he threw down five napoleons to pay
his fees. ' A droll document,' he said, as he
pushed it away. ' It displays great astuteness ;
it never yet found, I am sure, anybody who
sought immunity from its tax by declaring
himself d'un rang inferior, et hors de societe.
Eeally, your tax-paper does credit to the
municipal knowledge of human nature.'

The waiter smiled and took up the gold.

VOL. II. S

Monsieur gives this for the good of the
town?'

For the good of the town or the good of
yourself said Correze ; ' according as altruism
or acquisitiveness prevails in your organisation

The waiter, perplexed, bowed and pocketed
the money.

Wait a moment. Shall I hear this noise
every evening ? '

The noise ? ' The waiter was perplexed.

You call it music, perhaps,' said Correze.
If I cannot have my windows open without
hearing it I must go up into the mountains.'

'Monsieur will hear it seldom,' said the
waiter. 'It is the chapelle de musique; it
serenades royal personages ; but monsieur will
understand that such do not come every day.*

It is to be hoped not, if they have ears,'
said Correze. ' Who is it that they are serenading
now ? '

'The Princess Zouroff has arrived.'

She is not royal.'

That is true, monsieur ; but almost. The
Prince Zouroff is so very rich, so very great.'

« He is not here ? '

No, monsieur.'

What rooms do they give her ? '

Those immediately beneath monsieur. If
they had not been engaged for the princess,
monsieur should have had them,' said the
youth, feeling that this princely artist should
be lodged like an ambassador.

These do very well,' said Correze. ' I shall
not change them. You may go now. Order
my dinner for nine o'clock, and send me my
own man.'

Silence had come again, and the chapel
de musique had gone its way after its last
burst of that melody which the great singer
called noise. The stillness was only broken
by the sound of a boat passing, and the
murmur of voices from people sauntering
underneath.

Correze threw himself into a chair that
stood in the centre of the room.

I have honestly tried to avoid her,' he said
to himself. ' It is Fate ! '

His old and tried servant, Anatole, entered,
s 2

and began to unpack his tidings. Correze
raised his head.

Put the guitar out,' he said, ' and then go
down and see the cook, and preserve me from
what ills you can ; you know what it is to dine
where German is spoken.'

Anatole took out the guitar case and
placed it by his master, then went obediently.

He opened one of the casements and looked
out ; it had become almost dark ; the tranquil
pastoral loveliness was calm and dusky ; lights
twinkled on the opposite bank and up amongst
the woods ; the nearer casements were bright
and ruddy above the stream ; the murmur of
voices came from under the indistinct leafy
masses of the trees on the esplanade ; the
sound of oars in water made a pleasant ripple.
It was a little too much like one of the scenes
of his own theatres to please him perfectly ; he
preferred wilder scenery, more solitary places ;
at Ischl the glaciers and the ice-peaks, though
really near, seem far away, and are seen
but. by glimpses. Yet it was so quiet, so innocent,
so idyllic, it touched and soothed him.

After all,' he thought, ' how much we lose
in that hot-house we call the great world.'

There was a balcony to his chamber. He
leaned over it and looked down into the one
beneath ; there the dog, Loris, was lying, the
starlight shining on his silver-grey hair ;
beside hoi on a chair there were a bouquet of
Alpine roses and a large black fan.

Correze felt his pulse beat quicker.

Kismet ! ' he said to himself, and the
dreamy charm of a romantic fatalism began to
steal on him. Pure accident has the ruling of
most of our hours, but, in concession to our
weakness or to our pride, we call it destiny,
and we like to think its caprices are commands.

Now she shall have a serenade in truth ; a
better welcome than from the chapelle de
musique,' he said to himself, and withdrew into
his own room and took the guitar out of its
case — a large Spanish guitar that he never
travelled without, considering its melody a far
better accompaniment for the voice than any
piano could ever be. The organ has all the
music of the spheres, and the violin all the

emotions of the human heart; the organ is
prayer, the violin is sorrow. The guitar,
though but a light thing, has passion in it;
passion and tenderness and all the caress of
love ; and, to those who have grown to care for
it under southern skies and summer stars, it
speaks of love and sighs for it ; it has told its
tale so often where the fireflies flash amongst
the lemon blossoms and the myrtle.

He took up his guitar, and blew out all the
many wax candles lighted in his honour, and
sat down in the darkness of his chamber.

Then he began to sing ; such song as no
bribe could get from his lips unless he were in
the mood to give it.

Scarcely had the first notes of that incomparable
voice rung out clear as a golden bell
upon the silent night, than the people sauntering
on the bridge and before the hotel, paused
to listen, and turned to one another, wondering
and entranced.

*^ Who is that ? ' they cried to one another,
and some one answered, 'They say Correze
came to-night.' Then they were quiet, listening.

as in the north, where nightingales are few,
people listen to them. Then several others
from farther clown and farther up the street
joined them, and people came from under the
trees, and from over the bridge ; and soon a
little crowd was gathered there, silent, delighted,
and intent.

It is Correze at his studies,' the people
said one to another ; and his voice, rising in
its wonderful diapason clearer and clearer,
higher and higher, rang over the water, and
held all its hearers spell-bound. As a boat
passed down the river the rowers paused ; and
as a long raft pushed its slow way through
the silver of the moonlit ripples, the steersman
unbidden, checked it, and remained still,
lest any sound of rope or of chain should break
the charm.

The Princess ZourofF, wearily resting in the
salon beneath him, started as the first notes
reached her, and rose to her feet and listened,
her heart beating fast.

There was no other such voice in all the
world. She knew that he was there as well as

though she had seen his face. She went to the
balcony and stepped out into the moonlight
where the dog was, and the roses and the fan
were on the chair, and leaned against the
balustrade — a slender white figure with ermine
drawn about her, and the moon rays shedding
their silver around.

He was singing the ^ Salve Diana.'

She grew very pale, and her fingers grasped
the rail of the balcony till her rings hurt her
skin.

Yet how happy she was !

The river ran by, with a sweet song of its
own; the tranquil town seemed to sleep; the
people gathered below were hushed and reverent;
the fresh glad wind that lives in Alpine forests
swept by, bringing the scent of the pine-wood
with it.

He sang on, the chords of the guitar filling
the pauses of the voice with a low dulcet sound,
as if some answering echo sighed. The perfect
melody was poured out as from some wild bird's
throat, seeming to thrill through the darkness
and make it living and beautiful like the

shadows of a night that veils the ecstasies of
Love. She listened with her head bent and
her face very pale. It was her welcome, and
she felt that it was for her : for her alone.

He sang the ' Salve Diana ' of that living
master, who, whatever his weakness or his fault,
has in his music that echo of human passion and
of mortal pain, which more faultless composers,
with their purer science, have missed. Then
scarcely pausing, he sang from the music
of the ^ Fidelia ' and the ' Iphigenia,' music
familiar and beloved with him as any cradle-song
to a child; and he let all his heart go
out in his voice, that poured itself into the
silence of the summer evening, as though, like
the nightingales, he sang because his heart
would break if he were silent. Then, last of
all, he sang his favourite song of Heine : the
song of the palm-tree and the pine.

Suddenly, with one deep plaintive chord of
the guitar, as if its strings were breaking with
that last sweet sigh, his voice ceased ; as the
nightingale's may cease all at once, when,
amidst the roses, it tires of its very plenitude

of power. There was the sound of a closing
casement, then all was still.

The people, standing entranced below, were
silent a moment or two, still in the trance of
their wonder and delight; then, with one
accord, the shouted his name with such a
welcome as the never gave but to their own
Kaiser. The Kaiser was great, but even he
could not command that voice at will ; and
they had had the sweetness and the splendour
of it all to themselves here, by the quiet
Traun water, as if it were a bird's song and
no more.

They cheered him so loudly, and so loudly
called on his name, that he could do no less
than advance on his balcony, and thank them
in their own tongue. Then he bade them
good-night, and once more closed his window.

Below, Yere stood quite still, leaning back
in the low chair with her fan spread between
hers face and the upraised eyes of the people.
She felt tears fall slowly down her cheeks. Yet
she was almost happy.

The fresh forest wind, rising and blowing the

green moonlit water into rippling silver, seemed
to echo around lier the song of Heine; the
song of the palm-tree and the pine.

The gay brusque tones of Jeanne de Sonnaz
roused her almost roughly ; the duchess came
out on to the balcony muffled in a cloak of
golden feathers.

Ma cohere, how charming ! Of course you
recognised the voice ? and, to make sure, I
sent the servants to ask. Now we shall never
be dull. No one is dull where Correze can be
seen. It is too charming ! And how divinely
he sang. I suppose he was only studying;
though he must know all those things by heart.
Perhaps he has heard we are underneath him.'

She spoke in apparent ignorance and surprise,
heedlessly and gaily, but her quick eyes
read a look that came into Vere's, and for
which she was searching. When she had suggested
Ischl in August to Zouroff for his wife,
she had known from Vienna that Correze was
to pass through there.

I do believe it is as I thought,' said Jeanne
de Sonnaz to herself. ' Is it possible that le

hon diable has found the 'petite entree after all ?
It would be diverting — and why not ? '

When all Ischl awoke the next morning,
the day was brilliant ; the green river sparkled ;
coffee-cups tinkled on all the balconies ; the
washing barges were full of white linen, and of
women who laughed as they worked ; ladies,
old and young, were borne down the walk in
their chairs ; the little red and white ferry-boat
trailed along its rope, leaving a track of sunshine
; dogs swam ; children ran about ; pretty
women, with high heels and high canes, sauntered
under the trees ; green and grey huntsmen
went by, going towards the hills to slay
izard and roebuck. It was all sylvan, tranquil,
picturesque, Watteau-like. That there could
be anywhere a world full of revolution, speculation,
poverty, socialism, haste and noise,
seemed impossible.

At Ischl life may be still a voyage a There ;
but not in the reckless and frivolous fashion of
other places. All remains calm, placid, and
touched with the graceful decorum of another
time than ours. The bright Viennese are gay

indeed, as any butterflies can be ; but still Ischia
is Tschl, and not Trouville, not Monaco, not
Biarritz. It is aristocratic, Austrian, and
tranquil ; and still belongs to an age in which
Nihilism and the electric light were unknown.

A place to doze and dream in, and how
good that is ! ' thought Correze, as he stood out
on his balcony an hour after sunrise. ' What
will the world be like when there are no such
places ? Horrible ! but I shall be out of it ;
that is a supreme Comfort.'

Yet, as he thought, so he did not realise
that he would ever cease to be in the world —
who does ? Life was still young in him, was
prodigal to him of good gifts, of enmity he only
knew so much as made his triumph finer, and
of love he had more than enough. His life
was full — at times laborious — but always poetical
and always victorious. He could not realise
that the day of darkness would ever come for
him, when neither woman nor man would delight
him, when no roses would have fragrance
for him, and no song any spell to rouse him.
Genius gives immortality in another way than

in the vulgar one of being praised by others
after death; it gives elasticity, unwearied
sympathy, and that sense of some essence
stronger than death, of some spirit higher than
the tomb, which nothing can destroy. It is in
this sense that genius walks with the immortals.

Correze leaned over his balcony, and watched
the emerald-hued Traun flow by, and the sun's
rays touch the woods behind the water-mill
upon the left. His life was of the world and in
it, but the mountaineer's love of nature remained
with him. But it was not of the woods
or the waters, or even of the pretty women who
went by in their chairs to the Trinkhalle, that
he was thinking now. He was looking at the
empty chair in the balcony underneath, and
the fan that had lain there all night.

As he bent down and looked, a knot of
edelweiss was flung upward, and fell at his
feet, and a voice that he knew cried out to
him, ' Good morning, Correze ! You serenaded
us divinely last night. Come and breakfast
with us at ten o'clock. We live by cock-crow
here.'

J

The voice was the voice of Jeanne de
Sonnaz, who came out on to the balcony that
he had been told was Yere's. Astonished, and
not pleased, he returned some graceful compliment,
and wondered how it was that she was
there.

The duchesse looked up at him and laughed;
her ugly face looked prettier than many pretty
women's. She was in a loose white gown that
was all torrents and cascades of lace ; she had
a real moss-rose over her right ear, and at her
bosom ; she had little Chinese slippers on, allover
pearls, with disagree butterflies that trembled
above her toes.

I cannot see you without craning my
neck,' she cried to him. 'You will come to
breakfast. You will meet Vera ZourofP. You
know her. Doctors say she is ill. I cannot
see it. There was only one big salon free, so
she and I have shared it. A pretty place.
Were you here before ? A little too like your
own decor de scene'? Well, perhaps, a valley
with a river and chalets always has that look
Ems has it. I think it is terribly dull. I

am glad you are here. Come to us at ten.
We are all alone. I shall expect you to amuse
us.'

Correze said some pretty nothings with that
grace which charmed all women ; they talked
a little of people they knew, laughed a little,
and were very agreeable. Then the duchesse
went within, and Correze went for a stroll
towards the Retrench mill.

'Now I shall see what there is between
them,' she said to herself; and he said to himself,
'How can that brute let her be with
Jeanne de Sonnaz ? '

Vere, tired, and having had sweet strange
disturbed dreams, had slept later than her
wont, then had gone out to the bath and the
draught prescribed to her; she thought they
were useless ; she felt well.

Some one dressed in white linen passed her,
and bowed low : it was Correze. There was a
child selling mountain flowers; she bought
them and carried them on her knee ; the polite
crowd looked after her chair and whispered her
name.

The band was playing under the trees ; she
did not hear it; she heard only the song of
Heine.

When she returned there was almost a
colour in her cheeks ; she had a gown of white
wool stuff and a silver girdle of old German
work that had a silver missal hung on it.

You look like Mllson's Marguerite ! ' said
Jeanne de Sonnaz ; ' only you are too lovely
and too haughty for that, my dear. By the
way, I have secured Faust. He will come to
breakfast.'

M. de Correze ? ' said Vere with the colour
leaving her face. ' Why ? why ? — why did you
ask him ? '

I asked him because it pleased me, because
he is charming, because he serenaded us exquisitely
; there are a hundred " because."
You need not be alarmed, my love; Correze
goes everywhere. He is a gentleman, though
he is a singer. We always treat him so.'

Vere said nothing ; she was angered with
herself that she had seemed to slight him, and
she was uncertain how to reply aught.

yOL. II. T

The sharp eyes of the Duchesse Jeanne
watched her, and, as worldly-wise eyes are apt
to do, saw very much that did not exist to be
seen.

Vere stood mute, arranging her mountain
flowers.

The servants announced Correze.

Yere was not conscious of the trouble, the
gladness, the vague apprehension, and as vague
hope, that her face expressed ; and which
Jeanne de Sonnaz construed according to her
own light, and Correze according to his.

What will that diahlesse think ? ' he said
angrily to himself. ' A hundred thousand
things that are not, and never will be true ! '

For his own part, the world had taught
him very well how to conceal his feelings
when he chose, and, in his caressing grace,
that was much the same to all women, he had
an impenetrable mask. But Vere had none.
Vere was transparent as only a perfectly
innocent creature ever is; and the merciless
eyes of Jeanne de Sonnaz were on them.

You know the Princess Zouroff, I think ? '

said the latter negligently. ' Was it Vera, or
was it myself, that you serenaded so beautifully.
An indiscreet question; but you know I am
always indiscreet.'

Madame,' said Correze whilst he bowed
before Yere, and then turned to answer his
tormentor, ' truth is always costly, but it is
always best. At the risk of your displeasure I
must confess that I sang on no other sentiment
than perfect exasperation with the chapelle de
musique. That I serenaded yourself and Princess
Zouroffwas an accidental honour that T
scarcely deserved to enjoy.'

What a pretty falsehood, and how nicely
turned,' thought Madame de Sonnaz, as she
pursued persistently : ' Then Vera was right ;
she said you did not know we were here.
Nevertheless, you and she are old friends, I
think, surely ?

Correze had taken his seat between them ;
he was close goethe duchesse ; there was a little
distance between him and Vere, whose eyes
were always on the flowers that employed her
fingers.

T 2

I knew Madame la Princesse a little, very
little, when she was a child,' he said with a
smile. ' Neither acquaintances nor court presentations
before marriage count after it, I
fear. Princess Vera at that time had a sailor
hat and no shoes — you see it is a very longtime
ago.'

Yere looked up a moment and smiled.
Then the smile died away into a great sadness.
It was long ago, indeed, so long that it seemed
to her as though a whole lifetime severed her,
the wife of Sergius ZourofF, from the happy
child that had taken the rose from the hand of
Correze.

No shoes ! This is interesting. I suppose
they were dredging, and she had lost herself.
Tell me all about it,' said the high voice of
Duchess Jeanne ; and Correze told her in his
own airs' graceful fashion, and made her laugh.

If I did not tell her something, God knows
what she would conjecture,' he said to himself;
and then he sat down to the breakfast-table
beside the open windows, and made himself
charming in a gay and witty way that made

the duchess think to herself: 'She is in love,
but he is not.'

Vere sat almost silent. She could not
imitate his insouciance, his gaiety, his abandonment
to the immediate hour, the skill with
which he made apparent frankness serve as
entire concealment.

She sat in a sort of trance, only hearing
the rich sweet cadence of the voice whose mere
laughter was music, and whose mere murmur
was a caress.

The sunshine and the green water glancing
through the spaces of the blinds, the pretty
quaint figures moving up and down under the
trees on the opposite bank ; the scent of the
mountain strawberries and the Alpine flowers ;
the fragrance of the pine-woods filling the air;
the voice of Correze, melodious even in its
laughter, crossed by the clear harsh imperious
tones of Jeanne de Sonnaz ; all seemed to Vere
like the scenes and the sounds of a dream, all
blent together into a sweet confusion of sunshine
and shade ; of silver speech and golden
silence.

She had longed to meet him ; she had
dreaded to meet him. Month after month her
heart had yearned and her courage had quailed ;
his eyes had said so much, and his lips had
said nothing. They had been strangers so
long, and now, all in a moment, he was sitting
at her table in familiar intimacy, he who had
sung the Priere of Sully Prudhomme.

Her eyes shone with unaccustomed light ;
her serious lips had a smile trembling on them ;
the coldness and the stillness which were not
natural to her years, gradually changed and
melted, as the snow before the sunbeams of
summer ; yet she felt restless and apprehensive.
She wondered what he thought of her ; if he
condemned her in haste, as one amongst the
many bought by a brilliant and loveless marriage
; if he believed that the moth had forgotten
the star and dropped to mere earthly
fire?

She could not tell.

Correze was not the Saint Eaphael who had
given her the rose ; he was the Correze of
Paris, witty, brilliant, careless, worldly-wise,

bent on amusing and disarming the Duchesse
de Sonnaz.

Vere, who knew nothing of his motive, or
of her peril, felt a chill of faint, intangible
disappointment. She herself had no duality of
nature ; she had nothing of the flexible changeful,
many-sided temper of the artist ; she was
always Vere, whether she pleased or displeased,
whether she were happy or unhappy ; whether
she were with king or peasant she was always
what she had been born ; always Yere Herbert,
never Vera ZourofiP, though church and law
had called her so.

She is like a pearl,' thought Correze,
watching her ; ' she has nothing of the opal or
the diamond; she does not depend on light;
she never changes or borrows colour ; she is
like a pearl ; nothing alters the pearl — till you
throw it into the acid.'

Meanwhile, as he thought so, he was
making Jeanne de Sonnaz shed tears of inextinguishable
laughter at stories of his friends
of the Comedie Francis ; for in common withall
great ladies, her appetite was insatiable for

anecdotes of the women whom she would not
have visited, yet whom she copied, studied,
and, though she would not have confessed it,
often envied.

^ Le diable est entre,' thought the Duchesse
Jeanne, ruffling the moss-rose amidst her lace,
amused.

Le diable n^entr era jamais thought Correze,
who guessed very nearly what she was thinking.

Vere was almost always silent. Every
now and then she found his soft, pensive eyes
looking at her, and then she looked away, and
her face grew warm.

What did he think of her? she was asking
herself uneasily ; he, who had bidden her keep
herself unspotted from the world ; he who had
sent her the parable of the moth and the star,
he, who filled her thoughts and absorbed
her life more absolutely than she had any
idea of, had said nothing to her since the day
he had bade her farewell at Trouville.

Correze answered her in the same strain ;
and Vere listened, trying to detect in this gay
and amiably cynical man of the world the

saviour of Pere Martin, the artist of the lyric
drama, the hero of all her innocent memories
and dreams. He was more kindred to her
ideal when he grew more in earnest, and spoke
of himself and his own art in answer to Jeanne
de Sonnaz, who reproached him with apathy to
the claims of Berlioz.

No ! ' he said with some warmth ; ' I refuse
to recognise the divinity of noise ; I utterly
deny the majesty of monster choruses ; clamour
and clangour are the death-knell of music, as
drapery and so-called realism (which means, if
it mean aught, that the dress is more real than
the form underneath it ! ) are the destruction of
sculpture. It is very strange. Every day art
in every other way becomes more natural and
music more artificial. Every day I wake
up expecting to hear myself desire and denounced
as old-fashioned, because I sing as
my nature as well as my training teaches
me to do. It is very odd ; there is such a cry
for naturalism in other arts — we have Millet
instead of Claude ; we have Zola instead of
George Sand ; we have Dumas fils instead of

Corneille ; we have Mercie instead of Canova ;
but in music we have precisely the reverse, and
we have the elephantine creations, the elaborate
and pompous combinations of Baireuth, and
the Tone school, instead of the old sweet
strains of melody that went straight and clear
to the ear and the heart of man. Sometimes
my enemies write in their journals that I sing
as if I were a Tuscan peasant strolling through
his corn — how proud they make me ! But
they do not mean to do so. I will not twist
and emphasize. I trust to melody. I was
taught music in its own country, and I will not
sin against the canons of the Italians. They are
right. Rhetoric is one thing, and song is
another. Why confuse the two? Simplicity
is the soul of great music ; as it is the mark
of great passions. Ornament is out of place
in melody which represents single emotions
at their height, be they joy, or fear, or hate,
or love, or shame, or vengeance, or whatsoever
they will. Music is not a science
any more than poetry is. It is a sublime
instinct, like genius of all kinds. I sing as

naturally as other men speak ; let me remain
natural '

'But you are too strong for it to matter
what they say ! '

Correze shrugged his shoulders.

'I am indifferent. Indifference is always
strength. Just now I do as I like, to be sure,
and yet I have the world with me. But that
is only because I am the fashion. There is
so much more of fashion than of fame in our
generation. Fame was a grand thing, serious
and solemn; the people gave it — such people
as ran before Correggio's Madonna, as before a
heaven-descended thing, and made Catherine
of Sienna a living possibility in their midst. It
was a grand guerdon, given in grand times.
It is too serious and too stern for us ; Ave have
only fashion ; a light thing that you crown
one day and depose the next; a marsh light
born of bad gases that dances up to one one
moment, and dances away the next. Well, we
have what we are worth ; so much is certain.'

Do you think we always have the fate we
merit ? ' said Vera in a low tone.

Correze looked up, and she thought his soft
eyes grew stern.

I have usually thought so. Princess ; — yes.'

^ It is a cruel doctrine.'

And a false one ? Well — perhaps. So
many side-winds blow; so many diseases are
in the air ; so many wandering insects, here
to-day and gone tomorrow, sting the plant
and canker it — that is what you mean ? To be
sure. When the aphis eats the rose it is no
fault of the rose.'

Zouroff is the aphis, I suppose,' thought
Jeanne de Sonnaz as she looked at Yere. ' Do
not speak in parables, Correze. It is detestable.
A metaphor always halts somewhere, like an
American paper I read last week, which said,
Memphis is sitting in the ashes of woe and
desolation, and our stock of groceries is running
low ! " So Yera complains of fate and you of
fame 9 — what ingratitude ! '

Fame, duchesse ! ' cried Correze. ' Pray
do not use such a gros mot to me. Michael
Angelo has fame, and Cromwell, and Monsieur
Edison, but a singer ! — we are the most ephemeral

of all ephemeridse. We are at best only a
sound — just a sound ! When we have passed
away into "the immemorial silences" there is
nothing left of us, no more than of the wind
that blew through Corydon's pipe.'

Monsieur Edison will tell you that Corydon's
pipe will be heard a thousand years
hence through the skill of science.'

What horror ! ' said Correze. ' I think I
never should have courage to sing another
note if I believed that I should echo through
all the ages in that way.'

And yet you say that you Avant fame.'

^ I think I never said that, madame. I said
fame is not a gift of our times ; and if it were,
a singer would have no title to it.'

You have something very like it afc all
events. When half a city drags your carriage
like a chariot of victory '

Caprice, madame ; pure caprice,' said
Correze. ' I have happened for the moment
to please them.'

^ And what do Caesar, and Napoleons, and
other rulers do? — happen for the moment to

frighten them. Yours is the prettier part to
play.'

'A sugar stick is prettier than a ramrod,
but '

You do not deserve the Kaiserinn's strawberries
said Jeanne de Sonnaz, tumbling the
big berries nevertheless on to his plate.

I never deserved anything, but I have had
much,' said Correze. ' Even Madame de
Sonnaz, while she scolds, smiles on me — like
Fortune.'

'Madame Vera neither smiles nor scolds,'
said the duchess. ' Perhaps she thinks Fortune
and I have spoiled you.'

'Perhaps she thinks me beneath both
favour and scorn.'

Vere broke biscuits for Loris, and seemed
not to have heard. She felt herself colour ;
for, though she was a great lady, she was still
very young. She could not follow his careless,
easy banter, and its airy negligence hurt her.
If he had sent her the jewelled metaphor of
the moth and the star, how could he be altogether
indifferent to her fate ? She had felt

that the song of Heine had been sung for her ;
yet now she began to doubt whether the
meaning that she had given to it had not been
her own delusion; whether the eloquence he
had thrown into the German words had not
been the mere counterfeit emotion of an artist,
the emotion of his Gennaro, of his Edward,
of his Romeo. It is the doubt with which
every artist is wronged by those for whom he
feels the most. Yere, as she doubted, felt
wounded and disillusioned.

Breakfast ended, the duchesse made him sit
out on the balcony under the awning; she
made him smoke her cigarettes ; she made him
tell her more anecdotes of that artist life which
she was convinced must be one long holiday,
one untiring carnival. Correze obeyed, and
kept her amused. Vere sat within the window
making lace, never caring to have her fingers
quite idle.

Her heart had sunk ; the shining river and
the bright sunshine had grown dull ; the old
heavy burden of hopelessness and apathy had
fallen on her again. She did not find her

Saint Eaphael, and she listened with pain as .
his laugh mingled with the shrill gay tones of
the duchesse. Everyone seemed able to be
happy, or at least light-hearted, except herself;
it must be some fault in her, she thought.

Correze, even as his eyes seemed to glance
out to the green river, or to fasten admiringly
on the fouillis and moss-roses of his companion,
in reality never ceased to see that
figure which sat so still inside the window ;
with its white gown, its silver girdle, its proud
bent head, its slender hands weaving the thread
lace.

My pearl, that they set in a hog's drinking
trough ! ' he thought bitterly. ' Alas, no ! not
mine ! never mine ! If only she were at peace
it would not matter, but she is not ; she never
will be; they cannot kill her soul in her,
though they try hard.'

But do they ever really pay Felix for their
dresses,' the duchesse was crying ; ' Or do they
not think, like Sheridan, that to pay any debt
is a waste of good money ? '

At that moment some Austrians of the Court

were announced — handsome young chamberlains
and aides-de-camp — who came to pay
their homage to the Princess Zouroff and her
friend.

After a little while the duchesse monopolised
them, as she had a talent for monopolising
most things and most people ; and Correze, ashe
took his leave, found himself for one moment
alone before Vere's chair.

The duchesse and the Austrians were all
out on the balcony, laughing rather noisily, and
planning riding parties, dining parties, hunting,
boating, and all other means of diversion that
the simplicity of Ischl afforded.

Correze hesitated a moment, then touched
the lace-work on her cushion.

^ Work for fairies. Princess,' he said, as his
fingers caressed the cobweb of thread.

'Very useless, I am afraid — as useless as
the poor fairies are nowadays,' she answered,
without looking up from it.

Useless ? Surely not ? Is not lace one of
the industries of the world ? '

*Not as I make it, I think. It is better

VOL. II. u

than sitting with idle hands, that is all. When
I have made a few metres, then I give them
to any poor girl I meet ; she could make better
herself, but she is generally good-natured
enough to be pleased '

Her voice trembled a little as she spoke.
The artist had made so much of her mental
and spiritual life all through the past months,
that it almost hurt her to have the man before
her ; to her he was the lover, the poet, the
king, the soldier, the prophet, the cavalier of
the ideal worlds in which he had become
familiar to her. It was an effort to speak
tranquilly and indifferently to him as to any
other drawing-room idler.

It would not require much good-nature to
be grateful for any thing you gave,' said Correze
with a smile. ' I am rather learned in lace. I
knew old women in Venice who even showed
me the old forgotten point italien. May I
show it to you ? It is almost a lost art.'

His fingers, slender and agile, like the
fingers of all artists, took up the threads and
moved them in and out with skill.

It is not man's work he said, with a little
low laugh ; ' but then you know I am an artist.'

You say that as Courcy used to say " Je
suis ni roi ni princess '

Perhaps ! No doubt les rois et les princes
laughed at Courcy.'

I do not think they did. Courcy 's pride
always seemed to me so far above laughter.'

You do not look at my point italien,
madame,' said Correze.

Instead of looking down at his fingers with
the threads on them she looked up and met his
eyes. The blood flew into her fair face ; she
felt confused and bewildered ; the frankness of
her nature moved her lips.

'I have wanted to tell you always,' she
said hurriedly; 'to thank you — you sent me
that necklace of the moth and the star ? '

Correze bowed his head over the lace.

You forgive my temerity P ' he murmured.

What was there to forgive ? It was
beautiful, and — and — I understood. But it
was not my fault that I sank.'

Then she stopped suddenly; she remem-

V 2

bred how much, her words implied ; she
remembered all that the admitted of her
marriage.

Correze gazed on her in silence. It had
been a mystery to him always, a mystery of
perplexity and pain, that the innocent, resolute,
proud nature which he had discerned in Vere
Herbert should have bent so easily and so
rapidly under the teaching of her mother to
the tempting of the world. Again and again
he had said to himself that that child had
surely had a martyr's spirit and a heroine's
courage in her ; yet had she succumbed to the
first hour of pressure, the first whisper of
ambition, like the weakest and earnest creature
ever born of woman. He had never understood,
despite all his knowledge of Lady Dorothy, the
sudden and unresisted sacrifice of her daughter.
Her words now startled and bewildered him ;
and showed him a deeper deep than any of
which he had dreamed.

More versed in the world's suspicions than
she, he saw the keen glittering eyes of the
Duchess Jeanne studying them from the bali



cony, as she laughed and chattered with her
chamberlains and soldiers. He released the
threads of the lace, and replaced the pillow,
and bowed very low.

You do me too much honour, Princess,' he
murmured, too gently for them to reach the
keen ears of the brilliant spy of the balcony.
To accept my allegory was condescension ; to
interpret it was sympathy ; to forgive it is
mercy. For all three I thank you. Allow
me '

He bowed over her hand, which he scarcely
touched, bowed again to Madame de Sonnaz,
and then left the chamber.

Vere took up her lace-work, and began
afresh to entangle the threads.

Her heart was heavy.

She thought that he condemned her ; he
seemed to her cold and changed.

How that stupid lace absorbs you. Vera ! '
cried Jeanne de Sonnaz. ' The Empress has
sent to us to ride with her at four, and there is
a little sauterie in the evening up there. You
cannot refuse.'

The next morning Correze, breakfasting at
noon in the bay window of the bright Speisesaal
that looks on the three-cornered Plats, and the
trees on the esplanade, said to himself, ' I ought
to go away.'

But he did not resolve to go.

The night before he also h ad been summoned
to the Schloss. He was famous for his captiousness
to sovereigns, but he had been to this
summons obedient, and had been welcomed by
all, from their majesties to the big dog ; and
had taken his guitar, and sung, as he sang to
please himself, and had been in his most brilliant
and his most bewitching mood. In truth

their majesties, charming and gracious and
sympathetic though they were, had been of
little account to him ; what he had thought
about, what he had sung to, was a tall slender
form clothed in white, with water lilies about
her waist and throat, as though she were
Undine. He approached her little ; he looked
at her always. The knowledge that she was
there gave him inspiration ; when he sang he
surpassed himself; when he went away and
strolled on foot down through the pine glades
into the little town, he sang half aloud still ;
and an old forester, going to his work in the
grey dawn told his wife that he had heard a
Nix, with a voice like a nightingale, down in
the heart of the woods.

He remained always a mountaineer at heart.
The grey stillness and mist of the daybreak,
the familiar smell of the pine-boughs, the
innocent forest creatures that ran or flew before
his feet, the gleam of snow on the peaks in the
distance, the very moss at his feet bright with
dew, all were delightful to him, and brought
his boyhood back to him.

Yet his heart was heavy because he had
seen the woman he could have loved ; indeed,
could no longer deny to himself that he did
love her, and yet knew very well that she
was as utterly lost to him as though she had
been a wraith of the mountain snow that
would vanish at touch of the sunrise.

All things were well with him, and fortune
spoiled him, as he had said.

As he sat at breakfast in the wide sunny
window, and opened his ' Figaro,' he read of
the affection of Paris for him, the regret of a
world which has, like a beautiful woman, so
many to teach it forgetfulness, that any remembrance
in absence is unusual homage. A
courtier brought him from the court a silver
casket of old niello work inlaid with precious
stones, and having a miniature by Peniculus
in the lid, and, what he cared for more, a bidding
from the Kaiser to hunt chamois amongst the
ice-peaks of the Dachstein at daybreak on the
morrow. The post arriving brought him little
scented letters which told him, in language
more or less welcome, that the universal regret

of the many was shared in deeper and tenderer
sentiment by the few ; and some of these could
not fail to charm his vanity, if they failed to
touch his heart. Yet he had not much vanity,
and he was used to all these favours of peoples,
of sovereigns, of beauties. They rained on
him as rose-leaves rain on grass in midsummer;
and it was the height of summer with him, and
none of his rose-leaves were faded. Still

'I ought to go,' he thought, and that
thought absorbed him. He discerned the influence
his presence had on Vere. He knew
too well his power on women to mistake its
exercise. He saw what she had not seen herself;
he had long endeavoured to avoid her;
he had long feared for them both, the moment
when the accidents of society should bring them
in contact. No vanity and no selfishness
moved him ; but an infinite compassion stirred
in him, and an infinite sorrow.

'If I let myself love her, my life will be
ruined. She will never be as others have been.
There will be nothing between us ever except
an immense regret.' So he thought as he sat

looking out on the sunshine that played on the
silver and gold of the emperor's casket.

At that moment they brought him from
Madame de Sonnaz a note bidding him dine
with her that night. Correze penned in
reply a graceful excuse, pleading that he was to
set out for the Dachstein at nightfall. ' Who
shall say that we need Nihilism,' he wrote in
conclusion, ' when a public singer scales ice-peaks
with a Kaiser ? '

His answer despatched, he lit another cigar,
and watched the Traun water gleam under the
old grey arches of the bridge.

So she thinks I shall help her to her
vengeance on Sergius Zouroff,' he thought.
You eyes mat tombee, duchesse ! '

August noontide is cool enough in the
duchy of Salzburg ; he did not feel in the mood
for the chatter of the casino and the humours of
the Trinkhalle ; for the pretty women in their
swinging chairs and whist and ecarte in the
river balconies; there were half a hundred
people here who in another half hour would
seize on him beyond escape, as they trooped

back from their morning exercise and baths.
He bethought himself of an offer of horses
made him by a Grand Duke staying there,
sent a line to the Duke's equerry, and, before
his acquaintances had returned from the Thinks
was riding slowly out on a handsome
Hungarian mare, taking his road by chance,
as he paced out of the little town, following
the ways of the Traun as it flowed along
towards Styria, with the wood-clothed hills
rising to right and left.

There is a noble road that runs through
the Weissbach Thai to the lake of Attersee. It
is sixteen miles or more of forest-roadway. The
woods are grand, the trees are giants, moss-grown
with age, and set in a wilderness of ferns
and flowers ; the Weisbach rushes through them
white with perpetual foam ; the great hills are
half light, half gloom beyond the branches, and
there is the grey of glaciers, the aerial blue of
crevasses, for ever shining behind the forest
foliage, where the clouds lie on the mountains,
where summer lightnings flash and summer
rains drift like mist. The place is full of birds.

and all wild woodland creatures ; there is
scarcely a habitation from one end of the road
to the other. Where any wood has been
cleared, there are tracks of lilac heather, and
of broom ; here and there is a cross telling of
some sudden death from flood, or frost, or
woodman's misadventure ; under the broad
drooping branches of the Siberian pines, countless
little streams rise and bubble through the
grasses ; and at the end of it all there is the
blue bright lake, blue as a mouse-ear, bright
as a child's eyes ; the largest lake in all
Austria ; the Attersee.

War-worn Europe has little left that is
more beautiful than that grand tranquil solitary
forest-ride, with that azure water for its goal
and crown.

The Attersee is very lovely, blue as the Mediterranean
; radiantly, wonderfully blue ; sweeping
away into the distance to the Schaffberg
range, with white-sailed boats upon it, and
here and there, alas ! the trail of a steamer
as the vessels go to and from XJnterach and
Steinbach and Nussdorff.

At Weissbach the meadows go close down
to the water, meadows of that rich long
flower-filled grass that is the glory of Austria
and grows all about the little white stone
quays ; the boats come up to the edge of
the meadows, and the rowers, or those who
sail in them, land in that knee-deep grass,
under the shade of beech trees. There is a
little summer inn on the shore, with balconies
and hanging creepers; it is modest
and does not greatly hurt the scene ; the
hills rise sheer and bold above it. A little
higher yet are the mountains of the Hoche
and Helen ranges, where you can
shoot, if you will, the golden eagle and the
vulture.

Correze, beguiled by the beauty of the
road, followed it leisurely, till it led him to the
Attersee in some two hours' time. There he
dismounted and strolled about. It was not
very often that he had leisure for long quiet
hours in the open air, but he always enjoyed
them ; he felt angry with himself that in this
pure atmosphere, in this serene loveliness, he

remained dissatisfied and ill at ease — because
he was alone.

Do what he would he could not forget the
grand troubled eyes of Yere, and the accent of
her voice when she had said, ' It was not my
fault that I sank ! '

'Nothing could ever be her fault,' he
thought, 'yet what could they do to her so
quickly ? what force could her mother use ? '

He left the mare in the inn stable for rest,
and wandered up into the higher slopes of the
hills, leaving the lake with its boats that came
and went, its meadows, dotted with human
butterflies, its little landing-place with flags
flying. ' The forest-road is grander,' he said,
and told his groom to lead the horse back after
him when it was rested ; he meant to return to
Ischl on foot. Fifteen miles of woodland on
a Slimmer afternoon is more charming out of
saddle than in it.

'With a horse one must go so terribly
straight,' he thought to himself; 'it is the bypaths
that are the charm of the forest; the
turning to left or to right at one's whim; the

resting by the way, the losing oneself even, and
the chance of passing the night under the stars;
the pleasure of being young again at our old
ecole huissoniere. All that is inevitably lost
when one rides.'

So he turned his back on the blue Attersee,
and walked home along the dale, that seemed a
path of green and gold as the sunbeams of
afternoon shone through the trees.

There is a part that is mere moorland,
where the pines have been felled and the heather
grows alone ; the sandy road track runs between
the lilac plumes, lying open to the light for a
little while before it plunges again into the deep
sweet shadows of the forest growth. On the
crest of that more open part he saw two human
figures and a dog ; they were dark and colourless
against the bright afternoon light, yet, in an
instant, he recognised them — they were the
fissures of Vere and of a Eussian servant.

In a few moments he could overtake them,
for they moved slowly. He hesitated — doubted
said to himself that he would do best to turn
back again whilst he was still unseen. At that

moment Yere paused, looked behind her to seethe
sun going towards its setting above the
mountains, and saw also himself.

He hesitated no more, but approached her.

He saw that delicate colour, that was like
the hue of the wild rose he had once given her,
come into her face ; but she gave him her hand
simply and cordially, and he bowed over it with
his head uncovered.

You have been to the lake, Princess ? So
have I ; but the forest is better. The Attersee
has too many people by it, and I saw a funnel
in the distance — all illusion was destroyed.'

The steamers make the tour of it, unhappily.
But this forest road is perfect. I
send my ponies on to wait for me by the
Chorynsky clause — and you ? '

'I have left my horse, or rather Duke
Ludwig's horse, to follow me. She is a young
mare, and needs one's attention, which spoils
the pleasures of the wood. What a grand
country it is ! If it did not rain so often it
would be Arcadia. Are you strong enough to
walk so far, madame ? '

The ' madame ' hurt him to say, and hurt
her to hear. She answered, a little hurriedly,
that she liked walking — it never hurt her — in
Paris she could walk so little, that tired her far
more. And Correze, unasked but repulsed,
strolled on beside her ; the grim white-bearded
servant behind them.

She was dressed with perfect simplicity in
something cream-hued and soft, but he thought
that she looked lovelier than she had done even
in her jewels and her nenuphars at night.

gioventu, prima vera delta vita ! ' he
thought. 'Even a tyrant like the Muscovite
cannot altogether spoil its glories.'

They had come now into the fragrant gloom
of the forest, where the trees stood thick as
bowmen in a fight in olden days, and the
mountains rose behind them stern and blue like
tempest-clouds, while the silence was full of
the fresh sound of rushing waters.

Loris was darting hither and thither, chasing
hares, scenting foxes, starting birds of all
species, but never going very far afield from
his mistress.

VOL. II. X

They walked on almost in silence — the
woodland had that beauty amidst which idle
speech seems a sort of profanation — and Correze
was musing :

Shall I tell her the truth, and frighten her
and disgust her, and never see her face again,
except across the gas-glare of the Grand Opera ?
Or shall I keep silence, and try and deserve her
trust, and try and be some shield between her
and the world they have cast her into ; and
become in time, perhaps, of some aid and
service to her ? One way is selfish and easy ;
the other '

He knew himself, and knew women, too well
to be blind to any of the dangers that would
befall both in the latter course ; but an infinite
compassion was in him for this young and
beautiful woman ; a deep tenderness was in
him for her — mournful and wistful — quelling
passion. He for ever reproached himself that
he had not followed his impulse, and cast
prudence to the winds, and stayed by the gray
northern sea and saved her, whilst yet there
had been time, from the world and from her
mother.

They paced onward side by side.

The old man-servant followed with a frown
on his brows. He knew Correze by sight, he
had seen all Petersburg wild with adoration of
their idol, running before his sledge, and
strewing flowers and evergreens on the frozen
earth in his honour ; but he did not think it
fitting for a mere foreign singer to walk side
by side with the Princess Zouroff. Nevertheless,
he kept respectfully his due distance
behind them, marvelling only whether it would
lie within his duty to tell his master of this
strange summer day's stroll.

Madame de Sonnaz is not with you to-day ? '
Correze was saying as he roused himself from
his meditation.

Vere answered him : ' No. She has many
other friends in Ischl ; she is with the Archduchess
Sophie.'

Ah ! You like Madame de Sonnaz ? Of
course you do, since you travel together.'

She offered to come with me. M. Zouroff
accepted for me. It was very kind of her.'

Bah ! And that is the way they trick you,

X 2

and you never dream of their shame ! ' thought
Correze, as he merely said aloud, 'The duchesse
is very witty, very charming ; she must be an
amusing companion — when she is in a good
humour ! '

You do not like her ? You seemed as if
you did yesterday.'

It was a little reproach that unconsciously
escaped her. His gallantries and his persiflage
at the breakfast had hurt her too much for her
to so soon forget them.

I like her as I like all her world,' said
Correze. 'I like her with my intelligence
infinitely ; with my heart, or what does duty
for it, I abhor her.'

You separate intelligence and feeling
then ? '

By five thousand leagues ! Will M. Zouroff
join you here ? '

He will meet us at Vienna ; Madame de
Sonnaz is going to stay with me at Svir.'

You will be long in Russia ? '

Oh, no ; the two next months, perhaps.'

But so much long travel ; does it not tire
you, since you are not strong ? '

I think I am strong enough. It is
not that; I am tired — but it is of being
useless.'

She would have said joyless and friendless
too, but she knew that it was not well for any
lamentation to escape her which could seem to
cast blame upon her husband, or ask pity for
herself.

I am as useless as the lace I make,' she
said more lightly, to take weight off her words.
There is so much routine in the life we lead ;
I cannot escape from it. The days are all
swallowed up by small things. When I was a
child, and read of the old etiquette of Versailles,
of the grand couvert and the l^etit convert, and the
tres petit couvert, and all the rest of the formal
divisions of the hours, I used to think how
terrible it must have been to be the king; but
our lives are much the same, they are divided
between petits converts and grands converts, and
there is no other time left.'

'Yes, our great world is much like their
great world — only with the dignity left out ! '
said Correze, as he thought :

No head but some world genius should rest
Above the treasures of that perfect breast.

Yet thou art bound —

O waste of nature ! — to a shameless hound ;
To shameless lust ! . . . Athens to a Satyr.

'And how did the make her take the
Satyr ? ' he mused. ' She is not a reed to be
blown by any wind, nor yet a clay to be moulded
by any hand. What force did Miladi Dolly
use ? '

It is very difficult to be of much use
Yere said once more as she walked on ; ' they
say one does more harm than good by charity,
and what else is there ? '

'Your own peasantry? In those Russian
villages there must be so much ignorance,; so
much superstition, so little comprehension of
the value of freedom or morality '

My husband does not like me to interfere
with the peasantry ; and, beside, I am so rarely
in that country. The little I can do, I do in
Paris. Ah ! ' She interrupted herself with a
sudden remembrance, and a smile beamed over
her face, as she turned it to Correze. ' I know
Pere Martin and his daughter 5 how they love

you ! They told me everything. What simple
good creatures they are ! '

Correze smiled too.

'They are like the public — they over-estimate
me sadly, aud their enthusiasm dowers me
with excellencies that I never possessed. How
came you to find that father and daughter out.
Princess ? I thought they lived like dormice.'

She told him the little tale ; and it drew
them together, and made them more at ease
one with another by its community of interest,
as they moved slowly down the woodland road
through the leafy dusky shadows. For in the
heart of each there was a dread that made
them nervous. She thought always : ' If only
he will spare me my husband's name.' And
he thought : ' If only she would never speak tome
of her husband ! '

Memories were between them that held
them together, as the thought of little dead
children will sometimes hold those who have
loved and parted for ever.

He longed to know what force, or what
temptation, had brought her to this base and

joyless marriage ; but his lips were shut. He
had saved her from the insult of Noisette, but
he thought she did not know it ; he went yearly
to hear the lark sing on the head of the cliff
where he had gathered her rose, but he thought
she knew nothing of that either. Yet the
sense of these things was between them ; and
he dared not look at her as he went on down
the mountain road.

She was thinking always of his bidding to
her, when she had been a child, to keep unspotted
from the world. She longed to tell
him that she had not stooped to the guilt of
base vanities when she had given herself to
Sergius Zouroff, but her lips were shut.

I must not blame my mother, nor my
husband,' she thought. Her cheeks burned as
she felt, since he had saved her from the outrage
of the Kermesse, that he must know the daily
insults of her life. She was troubled, confused,
oppressed; yet the charm of his presence held
her like an incantation. She went slowly
through the grand old wood, as Spenser's
heroines through enchanted forests.

You said that you like Madame de Sonnaz ? '
he asked again abruptly.

She is very agreeable she said, hesitatingly;
'and she is very good-natured to me;
she reminds me of many things that I displease
Prince ZouroiF in; mere trifles of ceremonies
and observances that I forget, for I am very
forgetful, you know.'

Of little things, perhaps ; thoughtful people
often are. Big brains do not easily hold trifles.
So Madame de Sonnaz plays the part of
Mentor to you about these little packets of
starch that the head monde thinks are the staff of
life "? That is kind of her, for I think no one evermore
completely managed to throw the starch
over their left shoulder than she has done ! '

You do not like her ? '

Oh ! one always likes great ladies and
pretty women. Not that she is pretty, but she
has du clare, which is perhaps more. All I
intended to say was, that she is not invariably
sincere, and it might be as well that you should
remember that, if she be intimate enough with
you to give you counsels '

My husband told me to always listen to,
and follow what she said. He has, I believe, a
great esteem for her.'

Correze swore an oath, that only a foxglove
heard, as he stooped to gather it. There was
a great disgust on his mobile face, that she did
not see, as he was bending down amongst the
blossoms.

1^0 doubt,' he said briefly ; ' esteem is not
exactly what the Duchesse Jeanne has inspired
or sought to inspire ; but M. Zouroff possibly
knows her better than I can do '

But is she not a good woman ? ' Vere
asked, with a little sternness coming on her
delicate face.

Correze laughed a little ; yet there was a
great compassion in his eyes as he glanced at
her.

Good ? Madame Jeanne ? I am afraid
she would laugh very much if she heard you.
Yes ; she is very good for five minutes after
she has left the confessional — for she does goto
confess, though I cannot imagine her telling
truth there. It would be trop bourgeois,'

'You speak as if she were indeed not
good ! '

Good ? bad ? If there were only good
and bad in this world it would not matter so
much said Correze a little recklessly and at
random. ' Life would not be such a disheartening
affair as it is. Unfortunately the
majority of people are neither one nor the
other, and have little inclination for either
crime or virtue. It would be almost as absurd
to condemn them as to admire them. They
are like tracks of shifting sand, in which
nothing good or bad can take root. To me
they are more despairing to contemplate than
the darkest depth of evil; out of that may
come such hope as comes of redemption and
remorse, but in the vast, frivolous, featureless,
mass of society there is no hope. It is like a
feather bed, in which the finest steel must lose
point and power ! '

But is the Duchesse de Sonnaz characterless
? Frivolous, perhaps, but surely not characterless
? ' said Vere, with that adherence to the
simple point of argument and rejection of all

discursiveness which had once made her the
despair of her mother.

See for yourself, Princess,' said Correze
suggestively. ' What she has, or has not, of
character may well become your study. When
we are intimate with any person it is very
needful to know them well ; wha1?%ne's mere
acquaintances are matters little, one can no
more count them than count the gnats on a
summer day ; but about our friends we cannot
be too careful.'

She is not my friend ; I have not any
friend.'

There was a loneliness and a melancholy in
the simplicity of the words that was in pathetic
contrast with that position which so many
other women envied her.

Tender words, that once said could never
have been withdrawn, and would have divided
him from her for ever, rose to the lips of
Correze, but he did not utter them; he
answered her with equally simple seriousness :

I can believe that you have not. You
would find them perhaps in a world you are

not allowed to know anything of; a world of

narrow means but of wide thoughts and high

ideals. In our world— I may say ours, for if

you are one of its great ladies I am one of its

pets and playthings, and so may claim a place

in it — there is very little thought, and there is

certainly no kind of ideal beyond winning the

Grand Prix for one sex, and being better

dressed than everybody, for the other. It is

scarcely possible that you should find much

sympathy in it ; and, without sympathy there

is no friendship. There are noble people in it

still here and there, it is true, but the pity of

modern life in society is that all its habits,

its excitements, and its high pressure, make as

effectual a disguise morally as our domino in

Carnival ball does physically. Everybody looks

just like everybody else. Perhaps, as under

the domino, so under the appearance, there

may be great nobility as great deformity ; but all

look alike. Were Socrates amongst us he would

only look like a club-bore, and were there

Messalina she would only look — well — look

much like our Duchesse Jeanne,'

Yere glanced up at him quickly, then
reddened slightly, and rose from the bench.

What a baseness I am committing to speak
ill of a woman who gave me her smiles and her
strawberries,' thought Correze. ' Nevertheless,
warned against Madame Jeanne she must be,
even if she think me ever so treacherous to
give the warning. She knows nothing; it
would be as well she should know nothing ;
only, if she be not on her guard, Jeanne will
hurt her — some way. The mistress of Zouroff
will never forgive his wife, and 
would pardon her more readily than
would the wife of Due Paul. Oh God ! what a
world to throw her into ! The white doe of
Keystone cast into a vivisector's torture trough ! '

And what could he say to her of it all?
Nothing.

Midway in this dale of Weissbach there is
a memorial cross, with a rude painting; the
trees are majestic and gigantic there ; there is
a wooden bench ; and a little way down, under
the trees, there is the river broken up by rocks
and stones into eddies and freshness of white foam.

Best here, Princess,' said Correze. ' You
have walked several miles by this, and that
stick parasol of yours is no alpenstock to help
you much. Look at those hills through the
trees ; one sees here, if nowhere else, what the
poets' " blue air " means. Soon the sun will
set, and the sapphire blue will be cold grey.
But rest a few moments, and I will gather you
some of that yellow gentian. You keep your
old love of flowers, I am sure ? '

Vere smiled a little sadly.

Indeed, yes ; but it is with flowers as with
everything else, I think, in the world ; one
cannot enjoy them for the profusion and the
waste of them everywhere. When one thinks
of the millions that die at one ball ! — and no
one hardly looks at them. The most you hear
anyone say is, "the rooms look very well
to-night." And the flowers die for that.'

That comes of the pretentious prodigality
we call civilisation,' said Correze. 'More
prosaically it is just the same with food; at
every grand dinner enough food is wasted to
feed a whole street, and the number of dishes

is so exaggerated that half of them go away
untasted, and even the other half is too much
for any mortal appetite. I do not know why
we do it ; no one enjoys it ; Lazarus out of the
alleys might, perhaps, by way of change, but
then he is never invited.'

Everything in our life is so exaggerated,'
said Vere, with a sigh of fatigue, as she recalled
the endless weariness of the state banquets, the
court balls, the perpetual succession of entertainments,
which in her world represented
pleasure. ' There is nothing but exaggeration
everywhere ; to me it always seems vulgarity.
Our dress is overloaded like our dinners ; our
days are over-filled like our houses. Who is to
blame ? The leaders of society, I suppose.'

Leaders like Madame Jeanne,' said Correze
quickly.

She smiled a little.

You are very angry with her ! '

Princess — frankly, I do not think she is a
fit companion for you.'

My husband thinks that she is so.'

then there is no more to be said, no

doubt,' said Correze with his teeth shut. ' Forme
to correct the judgment of M. Zouroff
would be too great presumption.'

You may be quite right said Vere. ' But
you see it is not for me to question; I have
only to obey.'

Correze choked an oath into silence, and
wandered a little way towards the water to
gather another foxglove.

Yere sat on the low bench under the
crucifix on the great tree; she had taken off
her hat ; she had the flowers in her lap ; her
dress was white ; she had no ornament of any
sort ; she looked very like the child who had
sat with him by the sweet-briar hedge on
Calvados. Taller, lovelier, with a different
expression on her grave, proud, face, and all
the questioning eagerness gone for ever from
her eyes ; yet, for the moment, very like — so
like, that, but for the gleam of the diamond
circlet that was her marriage ring, he would
have forgotten.

He came and leaned against one of the
great trees, and watched the shadows of the

VOL. II. T

leaves flatter on her white skirts. He realised
that he loved her more than he had ever loved
anything on earth — and she was the wife of
Sergius Zouroff. She was no more Vere, but
the Princess Vera, and her world thought her
so cold that it had called her the edelweiss.

He forced himself to speak of idle things.

After all he said aloud, ' when all is said
and done, I do believe the artistic life to be the
happiest the earth holds. To be sure, there is
a general feeling still that we do not deserve
Christian burial, but that need not much
trouble a living man. I think, despite all the
shadows that envy and obtuseness, and the
malevolence of the unsuccessful rival, and the
absurdities of the incapable critic, cast upon its
path, the artistic life is the finest, the truest,
the most Greek, and so the really happiest.
Artists see, and hear, and feel more than other
people ; when they are artists really, and not
mere manufacturers, as too many are or become.
My own art has a little too much smell of the
footlights ; I have too few hours alone with
Beethoven and Mozart, and too many with the

gaslit crowds before me. Yet it has many
beautiful things in it ; it is always picturesque,
never mediocre. Think of my life beside a
banker's in his parlour, beside a lawyer's in the
courts, they are like spiders, shut up in their
own dust. I am like a swallow, who always
sees the sun because he goes where it is
summer.'

It is always summer with you.' There
was a tinge of regret and of wistfulness in her
voice of which she was not conscious.

^ It will be winter henceforward,' he thought
as he answered : ' Yes ; it has been so. I have
been singularly fortunate — perhaps as much in
the temperament I was born with as in other
things ; for, if we escape any very great
calamity, it is our own nature that makes it
summer or makes it winter with us.'

But if you were in Siberia,' said Vere with
1 faint smile ; ' could you make it summer there ? '
I would try,' said Correze. ' I suppose
Nature would look grand there sometimes, and
:here would be one's fellow-creatures. But
then, you know, it has been my good fortune

t2

always to be in the sun; I am no judge of
darkness. I dread it. Sometimes I wake in
the night and think if I lost my voice all
suddenly, as T may any day, how should I bear
it ? — to be living and only a memory to the
public, as if I were dead — scarcely a memory
even ; there is no written record of song, and its
mere echo soon goes off the ear. How should
I bear it — to be dumb ? to be dethroned ? I am
afraid I should bear it ill. After all, one maybe
a coward without knowing it.'

Do not speak of it ! ' said Vere quickly,
with a sense of pain. Mute ! That voice
which she thought had all the melody that
poets dream of when they write of angels ! It
hurt her even to imagine it.

It could not be worse than Siberia, and
men live through that,' said Correze. ' Have
you not seen, Princess, at a great ball, someone
disappear quickly and quietly, and heard a
whisper run through the dancers of " Tomsk,"
and caught a look on some few faces that told
you a tarantass was going out into the darkness,
over the snow, full gallop, with a political

prisoner between his guards ? Ah ! it is
horrible ! When one has seen it it makes one
feel cold, even at noon in midsummer, to remember
it.'

Eussia is always terrible,' said Vere, with
a little shudder. ' No where on earth are
there such ghastly contrasts ; you live in a hothouse
with your palms, and the poor are all
round you in the ice ; everything is like that.'

And yet you are Russian ; ' said Correze a
little cruelly and bitterly; for he had never
forgiven her quick descent into her mother's
toils, her quick acceptance of temptation.
You are certainly Eussian. You are no
longer Vere even ; you are Princess Vera.'

am always Vere,' she said in a low tone.
'They must call me what they will, but it
alters nothing.'

And Vera is a good name, too,' said
Correze, bending his eyes almost sternly on
hers. ' It means Faith.'

Yes ; it means that.'

He glided into the grass at the foot of the
tree, and sat there, leaning on his elbow, and

looking towards her; it was the attitude in
which she had seen him first upon the beach at
Trouville.

He was always graceful in all he did ; the
soft afternoon light was upon his face ; he had
thrown his broad felt hat on the grass; a stray
sunbeam wandered in the bright brown of his
hair.

Vere glanced at him, and was about to
speak; then hesitated — paused — at last unclosed
her lips so long shut in silence.

You remember that you bade me keep
myself unspotted from the world?' she said
suddenly. 'I want to tell you, that I strive
always to do so — yes, I do. I was never ruled
by ambition and vanity — as you think. I
cannot tell you more ; but, if you understand
me at all, you will understand that that is
true.'

I knew it without your telling me.'

He ceased to remember that ever he had
suspected her, or ever reproached her. It was
a mystery to him that this proud, strong, pure
nature should have ever been brought low by

any force ; but he accepted the fact of it as
men in their faith accept miracles.

She was such a child ; who can tell what
they did or said ? ^ he mused, as an infinite
tenderness and compassion came over him.
This woman was not twenty yet, and she had
tasted all the deepest bitterness of life, and all
its outrages of passion and of vice !

She was to him like one of the young saints
of old, on whom tyrants and torturers spent all
the filth and fury of their will, yet could not
touch the soul or break the courage of the
thing that they dishonoured.

Women had not taught him reverence. He
had found them frail when he had not found
them base; but, as great a reverence as ever
moved Againe or Intra, moved him towards
Vere now. He feared to speak lest he should
offend her ; it was hard to give her sympathy
even to give her comprehension, without seeming
to offer her insult. He knew that she was too
loyal to the man whose name she bore to bear
to hear him blamed, with whatsoever justice it
might be.

He was silent, while leaning on his arm,
and looking down upon the cups and sceptres
of the green moss on which he rested. If he
looked up at her face he feared his strength of
self-control would fail him, and his lips be
loosened.

Vere bound together his wild flowers one by
one. She longed for him to believe her guiltless
of the low ambitions of the world ; she
could not bear that he should fancy the low
temptations of the world's wealth and rank had
ever had power over her.

Yet she was the wife of Sergius Zouroff.
What could she hope to make him think in
face of that one fact ?

Suddenly he looked up at her ; his brilliant
eyes were dim with tears, yet flashed darkly
with a sombre indignation.

I understand,' he said at last, his old habit
of quick and eloquent speech returning to him.
I think I have always understood without
words ; I think all the Avorld does. And that is
why one half of it at least has no forgiveness
for you — Princess.'

He added the title with a little effort; it
was as a curb on his memory, on his impulse ; he
set it as a barrier between him and her.

It is I who do not understand said Vere,
with a faint smile, and an accent of interrogation.
She did not look away from the wood
flowers. His eyes fed themselves on the lines
of her delicate and noble features ; he breathed
quickly ; the colour came into his face.

No ; you do not understand,' he said
rapidly. ' There is your danger. There is
your weakness. Do you know what it costs to
be an innocent woman in the world you live in?
the great world as it calls itself, God help us !
To be chaste in mind and body, thought and
deed, to be innocent in soul and substance, not
merely with sufficient abstinence from evil not
to endanger position, not merely with physical
coldness that can deny the passions it is
diverted to influence, but real chastity, real
innocence, which recoils from the shadow of
sin, and shrinks from the laughter of lust. Do
you know what the cost of such are ? I will
tell you. Their cost is isolation — the sneer

they are branded with is ' out of fashion ' — no
one will say it, perhaps, but all will make you
feel it. If you be ashamed to go half clothed ;
if you be unwilling to laugh at innuendoes ; if
you be unable to understand an indecency in a
song, or a gag at a theatre ; if you do not find
a charm in suggested filth ; if you do not
care to have loose women for your friends,
however high may be their rank ; if adultery
look to you all the worse because it is a
domestic pet and plaything ; and if immorality
seem to you but the more shameful because it is
romped with at the children's hour, danced with
at the Queen's ball, made a guest at the house-parties,
and smuggled smilingly through the
custom-officers of society — if you be so behind
your time as this, you insult your generation ;
you are a reproach to it, and an ennui. The
union of society is a Camera or Maria. Those
who are not of it must at least subscribe to it,
and smile on it, or they are lost. There is your
danger, my Princess of Faith. How can they
forgive you, any one of them, the women who
have not your loveliness and your mind, and to

whom you are a perpetual, an unconscious, an
inexorable rebuke ? Clothed with innocence is
metaphor and fact with you, and do you understand
the women of your world so little yet as
not to understand that they would pardon you
the nakedness of vice much sooner than they
ever will those stainless robes which you share
with the children and the angels ? '

He ceased ; eloquence when he was moved
was habitual as song had been to him in his
childhood when he had gathered his sheep and
goats on the green alp. He paused abruptly,
because, had he spoken more, he would have
uttered words that could never have been recalled,
words that would have been set for ever
between them like a gulf of flame.

Yere had listened ; her face had flushed a
little, then had grown paler than was even
usual to her. She understood now well enough
too well ; an intense sweetness and a vague
shame came to her with his words ; the one
that he should read her soul so clearly, the
other that he should know her path so dark,
her fate so hateful.

She gathered the wood-flowers together and
rose.

'lam far from the angels and novi think
too well of me,' she said, with a tremor in her
voice. ' I think the sun is setting ; it grows
late.'

Correze rose, with a sigh, to his feet, and
raised her hat from the ground.

Yes. It will soon be dark ; very dark tome.
Princess, will you think of what I said ?
will you be on your guard with your foes ? '

'Who are they?'

'AH women, most men. In a word, a world
that is not fit for your footsteps.'

Yere was silent, thinking.

'I have more courage than insight,' she
said, with a little smile, at last; 'and it is
easier to me to endure than to influence. I
think I influence no one. It must be my fault.
They say I am wanting in sympathy.'

Nay, the notes around you are too coarse
to strike an echo from you — that is all. You
have a perfect sympathy with all that is noble,
but they never give you that.'

Let us move quickly, the sun is set,' she
said, as she took her hat from him, and walked
on down the forest road.

Neither spoke. In a little time they had
reached the sluices, where the imprisoned
timbers lay awaiting the weekly rush of the
waters. There a little low carriage with some
mountain ponies, lent her by the Court, was
awaiting her.

Keeping his wild blossoms of the forest in
one hand, she gave him the other.

'I shall see you tomorrow?' she asked,
with the frank simplicity and directness of her
nature.

He hesitated a moment, then answered :
To-night I go up into the Thorstein ice-fields ;
we may be away some days ; but when I comedown
from the mountains, yes ; certainly yes,
madame, I will have the honour of saluting
you once more. And I will bring you some
edelweiss. It is the flower they call you after
in Paris.'

Do they ? I did not know it. Adieu.'

Her little postilion, a boy from the Imperial

stables, with a silver horn and a ribbon and
tasselled dress, cracked his whip, and the ponies
went away at a trot down towards the valley,
whilst beyond, the last brightness of daylight
was shining above the grey white sheet of the
Carl Eisfeld that rose in view.

Correze stood on the edge of the wilderness
of timber, lying in disorder in the dry bed of
the river, awaiting the loosening of the White
Brook floods to float them to the Traun. Some
birds began singing in the wood ; as the sun set
behind the glacier.

They are singing in my heart too,' thought
Correze, ' but I must not listen to them. Heine
knew the caprice and the tragedy of fate. He
wrought no miracle to make the pine and the
palm-tree meet.'

The days that followed dragged slowly over
the head of Vere.

Ischl, in its nook between the hills, has
always a certain sadness about it, and to her
it seemed grown grey and very dull. The
glaciers of Dachstein and Thorstein gleamed
whitely affair off, and her thoughts were with

the hunters underneath those buttresses of
ice in the haunts of the steinbock and the
vulture.

The perpetual clatter of the duchesse's
voluble tongue, and the chatter of society that
was always about her — even here, in the heart
of the Salzkammergut — wearied her and irritated
her more than usual. She felt a painful
longing for that soft deep voice of Correze,
which to her never spoke a commonplace or a
compliment, for the quick instinctive sympathy
which he gave her without alarming her loyalty
or wounding her pride.

You are very dull, Vera,' said the duchesse
impatiently, at length.

'I am never very gay,' said Yere coldly.
You knew that when you offered to accompany
me.'

Your husband wished us to be together,
said Madame Jeanne, a little angrily.

You are very kind — to my husband — to so
study his wishes,' said Vere, with a certain
challenge in her glance. But the duchesse did
not take up the challenge.

^ Correze has told her something,' she
thought.

To quarrel with Yere was the last thing she
wished to do. She laughed carelessly, said
something pleasant, and affected to be charmed
with Ischl.

They went to the Imperial villa, rode a great
deal, were courted by the notabilities as befitted
one of the loveliest and one of the wittiest
women of the time ; and the five days slipped
away, as the Traun water slid under its bridges
and over its falls.

Yere began to listen wistfully for tidings of
the return of the Kaiser's hunting party. One
morning at breakfast she heard that the
emperor had come back at daybreak. But of
Correze there was nothing said.

Had it been any other memory than that of
Correze she would have been disgusted and
angered with herself at his occupation of her
thoughts ; but he so long had been to her an
ideal, an abstraction, an embodiment of all high
and heroic things, a living poem, that his
absorption of her mind and memory had no

alarm for her. He was still an ideal figure ;
now, when he was lost in the mists of the ice-fields
of the Dachstein, as in winter when before
her in the creations of Beethoven, of Mozart,
and of Meyerbeer.

A little later that morning a eager brought
to the Kaiserinn hotel a grand golden eagle,
shot so that it had died instantaneously, and
been picked up upon the snow in all its beauty
of plumage, without a feather ruffled. He
brought also a large cluster of edelweiss from
the summit of Thorstein, and a letter. The
letter was to Madame de Sonnaz from Correze.

She was sitting opposite to Yere on the
balcony that fronted the bridge.

From Der Freischutz ! ' she said with a
laugh. ' He has not shot his own arm ofP, like
Eager, that is evident.'

Vere did not raise her head from her lacework.


It had been written in the highest hut
under the Dachsteinspitze, and was in pencil.
After graceful opening compliments, in which
no one knew better than himself how to make

VOL. II. z

the commonplace triviality of formula seem
spontaneous and fresh, he said :

I have shot a nobler creature than myself
men generally do when they shoot at all.
Emblematic of the Napoleonic cause to which
Madame la Duchesse has dedicated herself —
inasmuch as it has lived on carrion, and though
golden, it will be rotten in a day, or at best
stuffed with straw — I desire to lay it at the
feet of Madame Jeanne, where its murderer
has ever longed, but never dared, to prostrate
himself. I offer the edelweiss to Madame la
Princesse Zouroff, as it is well known to be her
emblem. It has no other value than that of
representing her by living at an altitude where
nothing but the snow and the star-rays presume
to share its solitude.'

He said, in conclusion, that his hunting trip
having taken up the five days which he had
allotted himself for Ischl, he feared he should
see neither of them, again until they met in
Paris in winter, as his engagements took him at
once to the Hague, thence to Dresden, where

there were special performances in honour of
one of the gods of his old faith — Gliick.

Very pretty,' reflected the Duchesse Jeanne
as she read. ' I suppose he reached the edel-
weiss himself, or he could scarcely have
gathered it. I suppose Yera will understand
that part of the " emblem." '

But though she thought so she did not say
so ; she was a courageous woman, but not
quite courageous enough for that. She gave
the edelweiss and the note together to her
companion, and only said, with a little smile,
*Correze always writes such pretty notes. It
is an accomplishment that has its dangers.
There is scarcely a good-looking woman in
Paris who has not a bundle, more or less big,
of his letters ; all with that tell-tale suggestive
device of his — that silver Love, with one wing
caught in a thorn-bush of roses ; he drew
it himself. You saw it on his flag at the
Kermesse. Oh, of course it is not on this
paper. He scribbled this in some chalet of the
Dachstein. I will have my eagle stuffed, and
it shall have real rubies for eyes ; and I will

z 2

put it in my dining-room in Paris, and Correze
for his sins shall sit underneath it and pledge
the Violet and the Bee. Not that he ever will
though ; if he have any political faith at all he
is a Legitimist — if he be not a Communist.
But I don't think he thinks about those things.
He told me once that nightingales do not build
either in new stucco or in old timber — that they
only wanted a bush of rose-laurel. He is a
mortel fantastic, you know, and people have
spoiled him. He is very vain, and he thinks
himself a Sultan.'

All the while the duchesse was studying
narrowly her companion as she spoke.

Vere, without any apparent attention to it,
put her edelweiss in an old gold hunting
goblet, that she had bought that morning in
one of the little dark shops of Ischl ; and the
duchesse could tell nothing from her face.

In her heart Yere felt a sense of irritation
and disappointment. The note seemed to her
flippant, the homage of it insincere, and his
departure unnecessary and a slight. She did
not know that he wanted to turn aside from

her the suspicion of a woman in whom Le
foresaw a perilous foe for her ; and that to
disarm worldly perils he used worldly weapons.
Yere no more understood that than one of
Chaucer's heroines, with straight glaive and
simple shield, would have understood the tactics
of a game of Kriegspiel.

And why did he go ?

She was far from dreaming that he went to
avoid her. The song of Heine did not mean to
her aU that it meant to him. That she had
some place in his memory, some hold on his
interest, she thought — but nothing more ; and
even that she almost doubted now ; how could
he write of her to Jeanne de Sonnaz ?

A cold and cruel fear that she had deceived
herself in trusting him seized on her; she
heard of him always as capricious, as unstable,
as vain ; who could tell, she thought ? Perhaps
she had only given him food for vanity and for
laughter. Perhaps his seriousness and his
sympathy had been but a mere passing mood,
an emotion ; no more real than those he
assumed so perfectly upon his stage.

The doubt hurt her cruelly ; and did not
stay long with her, for her soul was too noble
to harbour distrust. Yet, at her ear Jeanne
de Sonnaz perpetually dropped slight words,
little stories, shrewd hints, that all made him
the centre of adventures as varied and as little
noble as those of any hero of amorous comedy.
Ever and again a chill sickening doubt touched
her — that she, at once the proudest and the
humblest woman in the world, had been the
amusement of an hour to a brilliant but shallow
jpersifleur.

She carried the gold goblet with the edel-
weiss of the Thorstein into her own chamber,
and, when quite alone, she burst into tears.

She never shed tears now. It had seemed
to her as if they were scorched up by the arid
desolation of her life. They did her good like
dew in drought. So much she owed Correze.

Correze himself at that hour — having taken
leave at daybreak of the imperial hunter and
his courtly companions, who were returning
into Ischl — was walking by his guide's side
down the face of the Dachstein towards the

green Rauris range, meaning to go across
thence into the beautiful valley of Ens, and
descend next day into the Mantling Pass
between the Salzkammergut and Styria. He
was still at a great elevation ; still amidst snow
and ice ; and the Rauris lays below him like
a green billowy sea. There was some edelweiss
in his path, and he stooped and plucked a little
piece, and put it in his wallet.

'0 ice flower, you are not colder than my
heart,' he said to himself. ' But it is best to
go ; best for her. I will dedicate myself to you,
ice flower, and of the roses I will have no more ;
no, and no more of the " lilies and languor."
Edelweiss, you shall live with me and be my
amulet. You will wither and shrivel and be
nothing, but you will remind me of my vow, and
if others will rage, let them. To the iceflower
I will be true as far as a man in his weakness
can be. Will that denial be love ? In the old
chivalrous days they read it so. They kept their
faith though they never saw their lady's face.
The Duchess Jeanne would laugh — and others
too.'

And lie went down over the rugged stony
slope, with the snow deep on either side, and
the green ice glistening at his feet, and the
woods of the Eauris lifting themselves up from
the clouds and the grey air below ; and thereon
Dachstein, where never note of nightingale
was heard since the world was made, this
nightingale, that ladies loved and that roses
entangled in their thorns, sang wearily to
himself the song of Heine — the song of the
palm-tree and the pine.

Chapter XX.

The days went on, and the duchesse made
them gay enough, being one of those persons
who cannot live without excitement, and make
it germinate wherever they are. Carried in her
chaise-reporters, playing chemin de fer on her
balcony, waltzing at the little dances of the
imperial court, making excursions in the pine-woods
or down the lakes, she surrounded
herself with officers and courtiers, and created
around her that atmosphere of diversion, revelry,
and intrigue, without which a woman of our
world can no more live than a mocking-bird
without a globe of water. But, all the while,

she never relaxed in a vigilant observation of
her companion ; and the departure of Correze
baffled and annoyed her.

She had had a suspicion, and it had gone
out in smoke. She had spent much ingenuity
ill contriving to bring Yere to the Salzkam-
mergus, after having disbursed much in discovering
the projects for the summer sojourns
of Correze ; and, with his departure, ail her
carefully built house of cards fell to pieces.
She did not understand it ; she was completely
bewildered, as he had intended her to be, by
the airy indifference of his message to her
companion, and his failure to return from the
glaciers into the valley. She regretted that
she had troubled herself to be buried for a
month in this green tomb amongst the hills ;
but it was impossible to change her imprisonment
now. They had begun the routine of
the waters, and she had to solace herself as
best she might with the imperial courtesies,
and with sending little notes to her friends,
the sparkle of which was like the brightness
of an acid drink, and contrasted strongly with

the few grave constrained lines that were
penned bj Yere .

One day, when they had but little more time
to spend on the Traun banks, she got together
a riding and driving party to Old Aussee.

Aussee is quaint, and ancient, and charming,
where it stands on its three-branched river ; its
people are old-fashioned and simple ; its encircling
mountains and its dark waters are full
of peace and solemnity. When the gay world
breaks in on these quiet old towns, and deep
lakes, and snow-girt hills, there seems a profanity
in the invasion. It is only for a very
little while. At the first breath of autumn the
butterflies flee, and the fishermen and salt-workers,
and timber-hewers and chamois-hunters
are left alone with their waters and
their hills.

The duchesse's driving party was very picturesque,
very showy, very noisy — ' good society '
is always very noisy nowadays, and has forgotten
that a loud laugh used to be ' bad form.' They
were all people of very high degree, but they
all smoked, they all chattered shrilly, and they

all looked very much as if they had been cut
out of the Vie Parisienne, and put in motion.
Old Aussee, with its legends, its homely Styrian
townsfolk, and its grand circle of snowclad
summits were nothing to them — they liked the
Open-ring, the Bois, or Pall-Mali.

Yere got away from them, and went by
herself to visit the Spitalkirche. The altar is
pure old German work of the fourteenth
century, and she had heard of it from Kaulbach.
In these old Austrian towns the churches are
always very reverent places; dark and tranquil;
overladen indeed with ornament and images,
but too full of shadow for these to much offend;
there is the scent of centuries of incense ; the
ivories are yellow with the damp of ages.
Mountain suzerains and bold rioters, whose
deeds are still sung of in twilight to the either,
sleep beneath the moss-grown pavement ; their
shields and crowns are worn flat to the stone
they were embossed on by the passing feet of
generations of worshippers. High above in the
darkness there is always some colossal carved
or moulded Christ. Through the half-opened

iron-studded door there is always the smell of
pine woods, the gleam of water, the greenness
of Alpine grass ; often, too, there is the silvery
falling of rain, and the fresh smell of it comes
through the church, by whose black benches
and dim lamps there will be sure to be some old
bent woman praying.

The little church was more congenial
to Vere than the companionship of her friends,
who were boating on the Traun, while their
servants unpacked their luncheon and their
wines. She managed to elude them, and
began to sketch the wings of the altar.
She sent her servant to wait outside. The
place was dreary and dark; the pure Alpine
air blew in from an open pane in a stain 3d
window, there was the tinkle of a cow-bell, and
the sound of running water from without; a
dog came and looked at her.

The altar was not an easy one to copy ; the
candles were not lighted before it, and the daylight,
grey and subdued without, as it is so
K^ often here, was very faint within.

After all, what is the use of my copying

it,' she thought, with a certain bitterness.
My husband would tell me, if I cared for such
an old thing, to send some painter from Munich
to do it for me ; and perhaps he would be
right. It is the only mission we have, to spend
money.'

It is a mission that most women think the
highest and most blest on earth, but it did not
satisfy Vere. She seemed to herself so useless,
so stupidly, vapidly, frivolously useless; and
her nature was one to want work, and noble
work.

She sat still, with her hands resting on her
knees, and the colour and oils lying on the
stone floor beside her untouched. She looked
at the dark bent figure of the old peasant near,
who had set a little candle before a side altar,
and was praying fervently. She was a grey-headed,
brown, wrinkled creature, dressed in
the old Styrian way, she looked rapt and
peaceful as she prayed. Wher she rose Yere
spoke to her, and the old woman answered
willingly. , Yes, she was very old ; yes, she
had always dwelt in Aussee ; her husband had

worked in the salt mines and been killed in
tlieni ; her sons had both died, one at Konig-
grate, one in a snowstorm upon Dachstein, that
was all long ago ; she had some grandchildren,
they were in the mines and on the timber rafts ;
one had broken his leg going down the Danube
with wood ; she had gone to him, he was only
a boy ; she could not get him home any other
way, so she had rowed him back in a little flatboat,
rowed and steered herself; it was winter,
the Traun flood was strong, but they had come
home safe ; now he was well again, but he had
seen the soldiers in Vienna, and a soldier he
would be ; there was no keeping him any more
on the timber rafts. Vienna was very fine ;
yes, but herself she thought Aussee was finer ;
she had lighted that taper for her boy Ulrich ;
he was going to the army tomorrow ; she had
begged the saints to watch over him ; the
saints would let her see them all again one
day. Had she much to live on ? No ; the young
men gave her what they could, and she spun
and knitted, and life was cheap at Aussee, and
then one could always pray, that was so much,

and the saints did answer, not always, of
course, because there were so many people
speaking to them all at once, but yet often ;
God was good.

Vere took her by the hand, the rough
gnarled hand like a bit of old oak bough, that
had rowed the boat all the way from Vienna ;
and, having no money with her, slipped into it
some gold porte-honours off her wrist.

If I stay I will come and see you. Tell
me the way to find your house.'

I shall never see you again,' said the old
woman with swimming eyes. 'One does not
see Our Lady twice face to face till one gets upto
heaven.' And she went away wondering,
feeling the gold circlets on her arm, and telling
her gossips, as they knitted in the street, that
she had seen either Our Lady or St. Elizabeth
one of the two it must surely have been.

When she had gone leaving her little taper,
like a glow-worm, behind her, Vere still sat on,
forgetful of the gay people who were carrying
their coquetries, their jealousies, and their
charms, on to the Traun water. She had
everything that in the world's esteem is worth

aviDg ; the poor, looking at her, envied her,
3 one of those who walk on velvet, and never
el the stones. She had youth, she had beauty,
le had a great position; yet, as she sat
here, she herself envied the life of the poor,
i was real ; it was in earnest ; it had the
sections to sustain and solace it. What a
)able figure that woman, rowing her sick boy
)wn the river in the autumn rains, looked to
jr beside her own mother ! Unconsciously
le stretched out her arms into the vacant
r ; those slender beautiful white arms, that
iris said were sculpturally faultless, and that
T husband liked to see bare to the shoulder

her balls, with a circle of diamonds clasping
em ; she felt they would have force in them

row through the rains and against the flood,
the boat bore a freight that she loved.

But love was impossible for her.

At the outset of her life the world had
even her all things except that one.

They had shut her in a golden cage ; what
after if the bird starved within ? It would
J the bird's ingratitude to fate.

VOL. II. A A

Even if her offspring lived — she shuddered
as she thought of it — they would be his, they
would have his passions and his cruelties ; they
would be taken away from her, reared in creeds
and in ways alien to her, they would be Zourotf
Princes whose baby tyrannies would find a
hundred sycophants, not her little simple
children to lead in her own hand up to God.

As she sat there the sound of the organ
arose, and rolled softly through the church. It
was a time-worn instrument, and of little
volume and power, but the rise and fall of the
notes sounded solemn and beautiful in this old
mountain church. The player was playing the
Requiem of Mozart.

When the last chords thrilled away into
silence, of that triumph of a mortal over the
summons of death, a voice rose alone and sang
the Minuit Chretien of Adam.

She started and looked round into the
gloom of the grey church. She saw no one ;
but the voice was that of Correze.

Then she sat motionless, following the
beauty of the Noel as it rose higher and higher,

as though, angels were bearing the singer of it
away from earth, as the angels of Arcana
bear on their wings the disembodied souls.

For awhile the church was filled with the
glory of rejoicing, with the rapture of the earth
made the cradle of God — then all at once there
was silence. His voice had not seemed to
cease, but rather to float farther and farther
above until it reached the clouds, and grew
still from the fulness of an unimaginable joy,
of an unutterable desire fulfilled. One or two
minor chords of the organ, faint as sighs,
followed, then they too were still.

Vere sat motionless.

Surprise, wonder, curiosity, were far away
from her ; all minor emotions were lost in that
infinite sense of consolation and of immortality ;
even of him who sang she ceased for the
moment to have any memory.

After a little while a lad came to her over
the grey stones ; a lad of Aussee, flaxen-haired
and blue-eyed, in the white shirt that served
him as a chorister.

He brought her a great bouquet of Alpine

A A 2

roses, and in the midst of the roses was the
rare dark-blue WolfiniaCarinthiana which grows
upon the slopes of the Gartnerkogel, and
nowhere else in all the world the say.

The foreigner for whom I blew the organ-bellows
bade me bring you this,' said the boy.
•• He sends you his homage.'

Is he in the church ? '

Yes ; he says — may he see you one
moment ? '

Yes.'

Yere took the Alpine bouquet in her hands.
She was still in a sort of trance.

The Noel was still upon her ears.

She did not even wonder how or why he
came there. Since she had heard the song of
Heine, it seemed to her so natural to hear his
voice.

She took her great bouquet in her hands
and went slowly through the twilight of the
church and towards the open doors. She was
thinking of the little dog-rose gathered on the
cliffs by the sea in Calvados.

In another moment Correze stood before

her in the dusk. A stray sunbeam wandering
through the dusty panes of the window fell
on his bright uncovered head.

I thought you were far away,' she said,
with effort — her heart was beating. * I thought
you were at the Hague ? '

He made a little gesture with his hand.

I shall be there. But could you think I
would leave Austria so abruptly when you were
in it ? Surely not ! '

She was silent.

In his presence, with the sweetness of his
voice on her ear, all her old pure and perfect
faith in him was strong as in the childish hour
when she had heard him call the lark his little
brother.

You wrote to Madame de Sonnaz '

I wrote to Madame de Sonnaz many things
that I knew she would not believe,' he rejoined
quickly. ' Oh, my Princess of Faith ! one
must fight the spirits of this world with worldly
weapons, or be worsted. You are too true for
that. Alas ! how will the battle go with you
in the end ! '

He sighed impatiently. Vere was silent.

She but partly understood him.

shave you been amongst the glaciers all
this time ? ' she asked at length.

No. I went to the Gitschthal in Carinthia.
Do you know that yonder blue flower only
grows there on the side of the Gartnerkogel,
and nowhere else in all the breadth of Europe ?
I thought it was a fitter emblem for you than
the edelweiss, which is bought and sold in
every Alpine village. So I thought I would
go and fetch it and bring it to you. The
Gitschthal is very charming; it is quite lonely,
and untrodden except by its own mountaineers.
You would care for it. It made mea
boy again.'

You went only for that ? '

Only for that. What can one give you ?
You have everything. Prince Zouroff bought
you the roc's e^^, but I think he would not
care to climb for the Wolfinea. It is only a
mountain flower.'

Vere was silent.

It was only a mountain flower ; but, as he

spoke of it, he gave it the meaning of the
flower of Oberon.

Had she any right to hear him? The
dusky shadows of the church seemed to swim
before her sight ; the beauty of the Noel seemed
still to echo on her ear.

How could you tell that I was here ? ' she
murmured.

He smiled.

*That was very easy. I was in Ischl at
daybreak. I would have sung a revel under
your window while the east was red, only
Madame Jeanne would have taken it to herself.
You go to Russia ? '

In three days — yes.'

Correze was silent.

A slight shudder passed over him, as if the
cold of Russia touched him.

Suddenly he dropped on his knee before her.

I am bat a singer of songs,' he murmured.
But I honour you as greater and graver men
cannot do perhaps. More than I do, none can.
They will speak idly of me to you, I dare say,
and evil too, perhaps ; but do not listen, do not

believe. If you ever need a servant — or an
avenger — call me. If I be living I v^ill come.
Alas ! alas ! Not I, nor any man, can save
the ermine from the moths, the soul from the
world ; but you are in God's hands if God there
be above us. Farewell.'

Then he kissed the hem of her skirts and
left her.

She kept the mountain flowers in her hand,
and knew how her doubt had wronged him.

Ten minutes later she left the church,
hearing the voices of her friends. At the
entrance she was met by Madame de Sonnaz,
whose high silver heels, and tall ebony cane,
and skirts of cardinal red, were followed by an
amazed group of Styrian children and women
with their distaffs.

Where have you been, my very dear ? '
asked Duchesse Jeanne. 'We have missed
you for hours. We have been on the river, and
we are very hungry. I am dying for a quail
and a peach. What is that dark blue flower ;
does that grow in the church ? '

A grey-headed English ambassador. Lord

Bangor, who was in the rear of the duchesse,
and was a keen and learned botanist, bent his
eye-glasses on the rare blue blossom.

The Wolfinia ! ' he cried in delighted
wonder. ' The Wolfinia Corinthians ; that is
the very phoenix of all flowers ! Oh, Princess !
if it be not too intrusive, may one beg to know
wherever you got that treasure ? Its only
home is leagues away on the Gitschthal.'

'It came from the Gitschthal ; a boy brought
it to me,' answered Yere ; yet, though the
words were literally true, she felt herself
colour as she spoke them, because she did not
say quite all the truth.

Duchesse Jeanne looked at her quickly, and
thought to herself, 'Correze sent her those
wild flowers, or brought them to her. I do not
believe in La Have.'

Vere, indifferent to them all, stood in the
church porch, with the soft grey light shed on
her, and the alpine roses in her hands, and the
spell of the Noel was still with her. ' Lift up
my soul,' prays the Psalmist — nothing will
ever answer that prayer as music does.

What a beautiful creature she is ; ' said
the old ambassador incautiously to the Duchesse
Jeanne, as he looked at her, with that soft
light from sunless skies upon her face.

The Duchesse Jeanne cordially assented,
But she added with a smile, ' people say so
because she is faultlessly made, face and form;
they say so, and there is an end. It is like
sculpture ; people go mad about a bit of china, a
length of lace, a little picture ; but no one ever
goes mad about marble. They praise— and pass.'

^N"ot always,' said the imprudent diplomatist,
forgetful of diplomacy. ' I think no one would
pass here if they saw the slightest encouragement
or permission to linger.'

*But there is not the slightest. What I
said — she is sculptural.'

How happy is Zouroff ! '

Ah ! Call no man happy till he is dead.
Who knows if she will be always marble.'

She will never be a woman of the period,'
said the old man with some asperity. ' T think
her portrait will never be sold in shops. Sofar
she will for ever miss fame.'

It is amusing to see oneself in shops,' said
Madame de Sonnaz. ' Now and then I see a
little crowd before mine ; and the other day I
heard a boy say — a boy who had a tray full of
pipes on his head — ^^ Tiens ! Celle-ci ; elle est
joliment laide, mais elle est crane, la petite ;
vela ! " That was at my portrait.'

It is popularity, madame,' said the ambassador
with a grave bow. ' The boy with the
pipes knew his period.'

^ And how much that is to know ! ' said the
lady with vivacity. ' It is better to be the boy
with the pipes than Pygmalion. To know your
own times, and adapt yourself to them, is the
secret of success in everything from governing
to advertising. Now-a-days a statesman has
no chance unless he is sensational ; a musician
none unless he is noisy ; an artist none unless
he is either diseased or gaudy ; a government
none unless it is feverish, startling and extravagant.
It is the same with a woman. To
be merely faultlessly beautiful is nothing, or
next to nothing ; you must know how to display
it, how to provoke with it, how to tint it here,

and touch it there, and make it, in a word,
what my boy with the pipes called me. I have
not a good feature in my face, you know, and I
have a skin like a yellow plum, that Piver can
do nothing to redeem, and yet ninety-nine of
the whole world of men will look at that
perfect beauty of Princess Zouroff, praise her,
and leave her to come to me. The boy with
the pipes is a type of mankind, I assure you.
Will you tell me, pray, why it is ? '

'Excuse me, madame,' said the old man,
with another low bow. ' To explain the choice
of Paris is always a most painful dilemma ; the
goddesses are all so admirable '

No phrases. You are old enough to tell
me the truth ; or, if you like, I will tell it to
you.'

• I should certainly prefer that.'

Well '

'Well?'

I will tell you, then, in her own husband's
words : elle ne salt pas s^encanailler,^

And the duchesse, with a cigarette in her
mouth, laughed, and carried her cardinal red

skirts, and her musical silver heels, over the
stones of Aussee to a raft on the river which
the skill of her attendants had turned into a
very pretty awning-shaded flower-decked barge,
where their breakfast was spread in the soft
grey air above the green water.

Such women as Duchesse Jeanne or Lady
Dolly are never in the country ; they take Paris
and London with them wherever they go.

The old diplomatist sat silent through the
gay and clamorous breakfast, looking often at
Vere, beside whose plate lay the alpine roses,
and in whose ruffled lace at her throat was the
blue Wolfinia.

Good God ! what an age we live in ! ' he
thought. * In which a husband makes it a
reproach to his wife that she does not understand
how to attract other men ! I do believe
that we have sank lower than the Romans of
the empire ; they did draw a line between the
wife and the concubine. We don't draw any.
Perhaps, after all, the Nihilists are right, and
we deserve cutting down root and branch in
our corruption. The disease wants the knife.'

He muttered something of his thoughts to
his next neighbour, the young Prince Traite

young man nodded, smiled, and answered,
'Duchesse Jeanne is quite right.
Princess Vera is as beautiful as a Titian ; but
one gets tired of looking at a Titian that one
knows will never come into the market. Or
rather she is like a classic statue in one of the
old patrician museums in Rome. You know
nothing will ever get the statue into your collection
; you admire and pass. The other day,
at the Hotel Drouot, there was a tobacco-pot
in Karl Theodore porcelain, that was disputed
by half Europe, and went at a fabulous price ;
the woman we like resembles that tobacco-pot
; it is exquisite, but it can be got at, and
anybody's hand may go into it ; and even in
its beauty — for Karl Theodore is so beautiful —
it is suggestive and redolent of a coarse
pleasure.'

^ All that is very well,' said Lord Bangor ;
but though it may explain the modern version
of Paris' s choice, it does not explain why in
marriage '

Yes, it does,' said the younger man. ' The
Roman noble does not care a straw for the
statues that ennoble his vestibule ; if he saw
them once being disputed in the Rue Drouot
he would quicken into an owner's appreciation.
Believe me, the only modern passion that is
really alive is envy. How should any man
care for what is passively and undisputed his?
To please us a woman must be hung about with
other men's desires, as a squaw with beads.'

Then you, too, would wish your wife to
savoir s'encanailler ? '

'Not my own wife,' said the young man
with a laugh. ' But then I belong to an
old school, though I am young; Austrians
all do.'

Whilst Russians,' said the old man savagely,
Russians are all Busy Rabutins crossed with
Timour Beg. By all, I mean of course the five
or seven thousand of " personages " that are all
one sees of any nation in society. The nation,
I dare say, is well enough, for it has faith, if
its faith takes many odd shapes, and it can be
very patient.'

The Duchesse Jeanne called aloud to him
that he must not talk politics at breakfast.

Then the breakfast came to an end, with
many fruits and sweetmeats and Vienna dainties
left to be scrambled for bj the Aussee water-babies
; and the driving party of Madame de
Sonnaz began their homeward way over the
Potschen-Joch. The old ambassador contrived
to saunter to the carriages beside Yere.

'If I were a score of years younger,
madame,' he said with a glance at the dark
blue flower at her throat, ' I would beg you to
make me your knight and give me the WoJfinia
for my badge. It is the only flower you ought
to wear, for it is the only one really emblematic
of you ; the edelweiss, that they call you after
in Paris, is too easily found — and too chilly.
Have you liked the day ; has it tired you very
much ? '

'It takes a great deal to tire me physically,'
said Vere. ' T am stronger than they think.'

But mentally you tire soon, because the
atmosphere you are in does not suit you ; is it
not so ? '

I suppose so. I do not care for the chatter
of the salons amidst the mountains.'
'No—

Le vent qui vient a travers les montagnes
Me rendra fou —

is a fitter spirit in which to meet the glaciers face
to face. I think people either have a love of the
mountains that is a religion, that is unutterable,
sacred, and intense ; or else are quite indifferent
to them — like our friends. I know a man in
whom they remain a religion despite all the
counter-influences of the very gayest of worlds
and most intoxicating of lives. I do not know
whether you ever met him — I mean the singer
Correze.'

Yes ; I know him.'

He is a very keen mountaineer ; he has a
passion for the heights, not that of the mere
climber of so many thousand feet, but rather of
the dweller on the hills, whom nature has made
a poet too. I saw him first when he was a little
lad in the hills above Sion. You know people
always say that part of his story is not true, but

VOL. II. B B

it is quite true. I am not aware why people
who have not genius invariably think that
people of genius lie ; but they do so. I suppose
Mediocrity cannot comprehend Imagination
failing to avail itself of its resources ! 
years ago, Princesse, I was already
an old man, but more active than I am now.
After a long and arduous season at my post I
was allowing myself the luxury of an incognito
tour, leaving my secretaries and servants at
Geneva. Iso one enjoys the privacy and ease
of such holidays like an old harness-worn
public servant, and there is no harness heavier
than diplomacy, though they do' give it bells
and feathers. One of those short — too short ■
summer days I had overworked myself amongst
the green Alps of the Valais, and had to rest
at a considerable elevation, from which I was
not very certain how I should get down
again. It was an exquisite day ; such days as
only the mountains can give one, with that
exhilarating tonic in the air that does worried
nerves more good than all the physicians.
Almost unconsciously I repeated aloud in the

fulness of my heart, with a boyishness that I
ought perhaps to have been ashamed of, but was
not, the Thalia ; you will know it, Princesse ;
I have heard that you are a student that would
have charmed Roger Ascham. As I murmured
it to myself I heard a voice take up the Idol, and
continue with the song of Lycidas : a pretty
childish voice, that had laughter in it, laughter
no doubt at my surprise. I turned and saw a
little fellow with a herd of goats; he was a
beautiful child about nine or ten years old.
His Greek was quite pure. I was very astonished,
and questioned him. He told me he was called
Raphael de Correze. As it was near evening he
offered me to go down with him to his father's
hut, and I did so ; and, as he trotted by my
side, he told me that his father had taught him
all he knew. He kept goats, he said, but he
studied too. I was belated, and should have
fared ill but for the hospitality of that mountain
hut. I cannot tell you how greatly his father
interested me. He was a scholar, and had all the
look and bearing of a man of birth. He told me
briefly how his father had taken to the mount

B 2

pains when the revolution ruined the nobility of
Savoy. He was then in feeble health ; he was
anxious for the fixture of his boy, who was all
alive with genius, and mirth, and music, and sang
to me, after the simple supper, in the sweetest
Boyish pipe that it has ever been my lot to hear.
I left them my name, and begged them to use
me as they chose ; but I never heard anything
from them after the bright morning walk, when
the boy guided me down into the high road for
Sion. I sent him some books and a silver flute
from Geneva, but I never knew that he got
them. My own busy life began again, and I
am shocked to say that I forgot that hut in the
Alps, though that tranquil homely interior was
one of the prettiest pictures which life has ever
shown me. Many years afterwards, in Berlin,
one night after the opera, going on to the stage
with some of the princes to congratulate a new
singer, who had taken the world by storm, the
singer looked hard at me for a moment and
then smiled. "1 have the silver flute still.
Excellency," he said. " I do hope you had the
note I wrote you, to thank you for it, to Geneva."

And then, of course, in that brilliant young
tenor I knew my little goat-boy, who had
quoted Theocritus, and wondered how I could
have been so stupid as not to have remembered
his name when I heard it in the public mouth.
So I, for one, know that it is quite true that he
is a mountaineer no less than he is an artist
and a Marquis de Correze. They say he has
been in Ischl ; I wish I had known it, for I am
always so glad to see him out of the whirl of
cities, where both he and I, in our different
ways, are too pressed for time to have much
leisure for talk. He is a very charming
companion, Correze. Forgive me, Princesse,
for telling you such a long story. Prosiness
is pardoned to age; and here are the
carriages.'

Vere had listened with changing colour, all
the dejection and indifference passing from her
face, and a light of pleasure and surprise
shining in her frank grave eyes.

Do not apologise. You have interested
me very much,' she said simply.

And the astute old man noticed that, as she

spoke, she unconsciously touched the blue
mountain flower at her throat.

Improbable as it seems he thought to
himself; 'I would wager that it is Correze
who gave her that Wolfinia. She is not as cold
as they say. " Elle ne sait pas s^encanailler"
No; and she will never learn that modern
science. But there are greater perils for great
natures than the bath of mud, that they never
will take though it is the fashion. The bath
of mud breaks nothing, and mesdames come
out of it when they like white as snow. But
these people fall from the stars, and break
everything as they fall, in them and under
them. She is half marble still; she is not
quite awake yet ; but when she is — when she
is, I would not wish to be Prince Sergius
Zouroff!'

The party went homeward in the fresh
mountain air, leaving the evening lights on
Old Aussee lying amidst its many waters. Vere
was very silent, her alpine roses lay in her lap,
the Minuit Chretien was on her ear. The sun
had set when they descended into Ischl. Her

servants came to meet lier, and said that her
husband had arrived.

Quel preux chevalier de mari ! ' cried the
Duchesse Jeanne with her shrill laughter, that
was like the clash of steel.

Quel preux chevalier de mari,' repeated the
Duchesse de Sonnaz to Prince Zouroff alone,
as they stood on the balcony of the hotel after
dinner.

He laughed as he leaned over the balustrade
smoking.

Je Vai toujours ete, pour toi,' he whispered.

The Duchesse de Sonnaz gave him a blow
with her pretty fan, that Fantin had painted
with some Loves playing blind-man's-buJff.

Vere was inside the room ; she was intent
upon her lacework. The shaded light of a
lamp fell on the proud, mournful calmness of
her face. She wore black velvet with a high
ruff of old Flemish lace ; she looked like a
picture by Chardin.

Prince Zouroff sauntered in from the balcony
and approached his wife.

Vera,' he said suddenly to her, ' they tell

me you are great friends with that singing
fellow Correze. Is it true ? '

Vere looked up from her lace-work.

Who say so ? '

Oh — people. Is it true ? '

I have seen M. de Correze little, but I feel
to know him well.'

She answered him the simple truth, as it
seemed to be to herself.

Ah ! ' said Prince Zouroff, ' then write and
tell him to come to Svir. We must have some
grand music for the Therewith, and you can
offer him fiYQ hundred more roubles a night
than the Petersburg opera gives him ; he can
have his own suite of rooms, and his own
table ; I know those artists give themselves
airs.'

Vere looked at him for a moment in astonishment,
then felt herself grow cold and
pale, with what emotion she scarcely knew.

You had better let Anton write if you wish
it,' she answered, after a little pause. Anton
was his secretary. ' But M. de Correze would
not come ; he has many engagements ; and I

believe lie never goes to private houses unless
lie goes as a guest, and then, of course, there
is no question of money.'

Zouroff was looking at her closely through
his half-closed eyelids. He laughed.

Nonsense. If an artist cannot be hired
the world is coming to an end. They have no
right to prejudices, those people ; and, in point
of fact, they only assume them to heighten the
price. I prefer you should write yourself ; you
can give him any sum you like ; but he shall
come to Svir.'

Yere hesitated a moment, then said very
calmly, ' It is not for me to write ; Anton
always does your business ; let him do this.'

The forehead of Zouroff grew clouded with
a heavy frown ; she had never contradicted or
disobeyed him before.

I order you to write, madame,' he said
sternly. ' There is an end.'

Vere rose, curtsied, and passed before him
to a writing-table. There she wrote :

Monsieur, — My husband desires me to beg

you to do us the honour of visiting us at Svir
on the fifteenth of next month, when the
Therewith will have the condescension to be
with us ; I believe, however, that you will be
unable to do us this gratification, as I think
your time is already too fully occupied. All
arrangements you may wish to make in the
event of your acceding to his desire you will
kindly communicate to M. Zouroff. T beg to
assure you of my distinguished consideration.

Yera, Princess Zouropf.'

She wrote rapidly, addressed the letter, and
handed it to her husband.

Pooh ! ' he said, as he read it, and tore it
up. ' You write to the fellow as if he were a
prince himself. You must not write to a singer
in that fashion. Say we will pay him anything
he choose. It is a question d^ argent ; there is
no need for compliments and consideration.'

You will pardon me, monsieur, I will not
write with less courtesy than that.'

You will write as I choose to dictate.'

No.' She spoke very quietly, and took
up her lace work.

You venture to disobey me ? '

I will not disobey any absolute command
of yours, but I will not insult a great artist
because you wish me to do so.'

There was a look of resolve and of contempt
on her face that was new to him. She had
always obeyed his caprices with a passive, mute
patience that had made him believe her incapable
of having will or judgment of her own.
It was as strange to him as if a statue had
spoken, or a flower had frowned. He stared
at her in surprise that was greater than his
annoyance.

'Pardieu ! what has come to you ? ' he said
fiercely. ' Take up your pen and write what I
have spoken.'

Napoleon, tu follies ! ' quoted the Duchesse
Jeanne, as she came to the rescue with a laugh,
My dear Prince, pardon me, but your charming
wife is altogether in the right. Correze is a
great artist ; emperors kneel before him ; it
will never do to send for him as if he were an

organ-grinder, that is, at least, if you want
him to come. Besides, Vera and he are old
friends ; they cannot be expected to deal with
one another like entrepreneur and employe, in the
sledge-hammer style of persuasion, which seems
to be your idea of beguiling stars to shine for
you. Believe me, your wife is right. Correze
will never come to Svir at all unless '

Unless what ? '

Unless as her friend, and yours.'

There was a little accent on the first pronoun
that cast the meaning of many words into
those few monosyllables.

Zouroff watched his wife from under his
heavy eyelids.

Vere sat still, and composed, taking up the
various threads of her lace-pillows. She had
said what she had thought courage and courtesy
required her to sa}- ; to the effect of what
she had said she was indifferent, and she did
not perceive the meaning in the duchess's words
a pure conscience is often a cause of blindness
and deafness that are perilous.

When I have spoken ' began her

husband, for he had the childishness of the true
tyrant in him.

Madame de Sonnaz puffed some cigarette-smoke
into his face.

'Oh, Caesar; when you have spoken, what
then ? You have no serfs now, even in Russia.
You can have none of us knotted. You can
only bow and yield to a woman's will, like any
other man. Voyons ! I will write to Correze.
I have known him ever since he first set all
Paris sighing as Edward, and I will insinuate
to him gently that he will find a bouquet on his
table each day with a million roubles about the
stalks of it ; that will be delicate enough perhaps
to bring him. But do you really wish for
him? That is what I doubt.'

Why should you doubt it ? ' said the prince,
with his sombre ej^es still fastened on his wife.

Duchesse Jeanne looked at him and smiled ;
the smile said a great many things.

Because it will cost a great deal,' she said
demurely, ' and I never knew that the Therewith
cared especially for music. He is not
Louis of Bavaria.'

Then she sat down and wrote a very pretty
letter of invitation and cajolery and command,
all combined. Vere never spoke ; her husband
paced up and down the room, angry at having
been worsted, yet reluctant to oppose his friend
Jeanne.

It was the first disobedience of Vere's since
she had sworn him obedience at the altar. It
gave him a strange sensation, half of rage, half
of respect; but the mingling of respect only
served to heighten and strengthen the rage.
He had been a youth when the emancipation
was given by Alexander to his people ; and in
his boyhood he had seen his servants and his
villagers flogged, beaten with rods, driven out
into the snow at midnight, turned adrift into
the woods to meet the wolves, treated anyhow,
as whim or temper dictated on the impulse of a
moment's wrath. The instinct of dominion
remained strong in him ; it always seemed to
him that a blow was the right answer to any
restive creature, whether dog or horse, man or
woman. He had seen women scourged very
often, and going in droves from Poland to

Siberia. He could have found it in his heart
to throw his wife on her knees and strike her
now. Only he was a man of the world and
knew what the world thought of such violence
as that ; and, in his own coarse way, he was a
gentleman.

Correze received the letter of Duchesse Jeanne
one evening on the low sands of Screening,
where some of the noblest ladies of northern
nobilities were spoiling and praising him, as
women had done from the day of his debut.
Correze felt that he ought to have been content ;
he was seated luxuriously in one of the straw
hive-like chairs, a lovely Prussian Thirsting had
lent him her huge fan, a Dutchman, handsome
as Rubens' wife, was making him a cigarette,
and a Danish ambassadress was reading
him a poem of Francois Coppee ; the sea was
rolling in, in big billows, and sending into the
air a delicious crisp freshness and buoyancy;
all along the flat and yellow dunes were pleasant
people, clever people, handsome people, distinguished
people.

He ought to have been content. But he

was not. He was thinking of green, cool, dusky,
fir-scented Tschl.

The Danish beauty stopped suddenly in her
reading. ' You are not listening, Corrode ! '
she cried aloud in some dismay and discomfiture.


Madame,' said Correze gallantly, ' Coppee
is a charming poet, but I would defy anyone to
think of what he writes when it is you who are
the reader of it ! '

That is very pretty,' said the lovely Dane ;
it would be perfect indeed ; only one sees that
you suppress a yawn as you say it ! '

I never yawned, or wished to yawn, in my
life,' said he promptly. ' I cannot understand
people who do. Cut your throat,
blow out your brains, drown yourself, anyone
of these — that is a conceivable impulse ;
but yawn ! what a confession of internal
nothingness! What a vapid and vacant
windbag must be the man who collapses into
a yawn ! '

Nevertheless, you were very near one then,'
said the Danish beauty, casting her Coppee aside

on the sand. ' Compliments aside, you are
changed, do you know ? You are serious, you
are preoccupied.'

At that moment his secretary brought him
his letters. His ladies gave him permission to
glance at them, for some were marked urgent.
Amongst them was the letter of Madame de
Sonnaz.

He read it with surprise and some anger.
It was a temptation ; and the writer had known
very well that it was so.

He would not have touched the roubles of
the master of Svir, and would not willingly even
have broken his bread, yet he would have given
everything he possessed to go, to be under the
same roof with the wife of Zouroff ; to see, to
hear, to charm, to influence her j to sing his
songs for her ear alone.

The rough grey northern ocean came booming
over the sands. Correze sat silent and
with a shadow on his face.

Then he rose, wrote a line in a leaf of his
notebook, gave it to his secretary to have
VOL. II. c c

telegraphed at once to Ischl. The line said
merely :

'Mille remerciments. Tres honore. Impossible
accepted a cause engagements.
Tons mes hommages.'

The sea rolled in with a grand sound, like
a chant on a great organ.

It is very bourgeois to do right,' thought
Correze ; ' but one must do it sometimes.
Madame Jeanne is too quick; she plays her
cards coarsely. All those Second Empire
women are conspirators, but they conspire too
hurriedly to succeed. My beautiful edelweiss,
do they think I should pluck you from your
heights ? Oh ! the Goths ! Madame,' he said
aloud, 'do be merciful, and read me the harmonies
of Coppee again. You will not ? That
is revengeful. Perhaps I did not attend enough
to his charming verses. There is another verse
running in my head. Do you know it? I
think Sully Prudhomme wrote it. It is one of
those things so true that they hurt one ; and
one carries the burden of them about like a sad
memory.

Dans les verres pais du cabaret brutal,
Le vin bleu coule ^ flots, et sans tr^ve a la ronde.
Dans le calice fin plus rarement abode
Un vin dont la clare soit digne du cristal.

Enfin, la coupe door du haut d'un pedestal
Attend, vide toujours, bien que large et profonde,
Un cru dont la noblesse a la sienne reporte :
On tremble dien souiller Ouvrage et le metal.'

Have your letters made you think of that
poem ? ' asked his companion.
'Yes.'

And where is the golden cup ? '
At the banquet of a debauchee who prefers

Les verres pais du cabaret brutal." '

END OP THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : Printed BY

8P0TTISW00DE AND CO., NBW-BTEBET Squash

AS-Q PABUAMSSX SXBBBT

m

ILUNOIO-1BRARY
AT Urban . L. MvlPAIGM

Statics

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

SEP 1 3 19J4

L161— O-1096

MOTHS

THIRD VOL Ime

UNDER WHICH LORD ? By E. Lynn
Linton. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

CONFIDENCE. By Henry James, Jun. 2 vols.

crown 8vo.

DONNA QUIXOTE. By Justin McCarthy.

Second Edition. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

QUEEN OF THE MEADOW. By Charles

Gibson. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

HIGH SPIRITS. By James Payn. Second

Edition. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

JEZEBEL'S DAUGHTER. By Wilkie

Collins. 3 vols, crown 8vo. shortly.

THE SEAMY SIDE. By the Authors of
Readymoney Mortiboy.' \ Shortly.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

A NOVEL

BY

O U I D A

Like unto moths fretting a garment ' (Psalm

IN THREE VOLUMES— VOL. Il

ITonbon
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

i»«o

\ Tfu right of translation is rcsfrvcd}

SPOTTISWOOOE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

MOTHS.

CHAPTER XXI.

A FEW weeks later they were at Svir.

Svir was one of the grandest summer palaces
of the many palaces of the Princes Zouroff. It
had been built by a French architect in the
time of the great Catherine's love of French
art, and its appanages were less an estate thana
province or principality that stretched faraway
to the horizon on every side save one,
where the Baltic spread its ice-plains in the
winter, and its blue waters to the brief summer
sunshine. It was a very grand place ; it had

VOL. III. B

acres of palm-houses and glass-houses; it had
vast stables full of horses; it had a theatre, with
a stage as large as the Folies-marine's ; it had
vast forests in which the bear and the boar and
the wolf were hunted with the splendour and
the barbarity of the royal hunts that Sneers
painted ; it was a Muscovite Versailles, with
hundreds of halls and chambers, and a staircase,
up which fifty men might have walked abreast ;
it had many treasures, too, of the arts, and
precious marbles, Greek and Roman ; yet there
was no place on earth which Vere hated as she
hated Svir.

To her it was the symbol of despotism, of
brutal power, of soulless magnificence ; and the
cruelties of the sport that filled all the days,
and the oppression of the peasantry by the
police-agents which she was impotent to
redress, weighed on her with continual pain.
She had been taught in her girlhood to think ;
she knew too much to accept the surface gloss
of things as their truth ; she could not be content
with a life which was a perpetual pageantry,
without any other aim than that of killing time.

So inch did the life at Svir displease her,
and so indifferent was she to her own position
in it, that she never observed that she was less
mistress of it than was the Duchesses Sonnaz,
who was there with the Due Paul, a placid
sweet-tempered man, who was devoted to entomology
and other harmless sciences. It was
not Vere, but Madame Jeanne who directed
the amusements of each day and night. It was
Madame Jeanne who scolded the manager of
the operetta troop, who selected the pieces to
be performed in the theatre, who organised the
hunting parties and the cotillons, and the
sailing, and the riding. It was Madame Jeanne
who, with her pistols in her belt, and her gold-tipped
ivory hunting-horn, and her green tunic
and trowsers, and her general franc-tireur
aspect, went out with Sergius Zouroff to seethe
bear's death-struggle, and give the last
stroke in the wolf's throat.

Vere — to whom the moonlit curse in the
great court was a horrible sight, and who,
though she had never blenched when the wolves
had bayed after the sledge, would have turned sick

B 2

and blind at sight of the dying beasts with the
hunters' knives in their necks — was only glad
that there was anyone who should take the task
off her hands of amusing the large house-party
and the morose humours of her husband. The
words of Correze had failed to awaken any
suspicion in her mind.

That the presence of Madame de Sonnaz at
Svir was as great an insult to her as that of
Noisette in the Kermesse pavilion never entered
her thoughts. She only as yet knew very imperfectly
her world.

It is well she is beautiful, for she is only a
bit of still life,' said Prince Zouroff very contemptuously
to some one who complimented
him upon his wife's loveliness.

When she received their Imperial guests at
the foot of her staircase, with a great bouquet
of lilies of the valley and orchids in her
hand, she was a perfect picture against the
ebony and malachite of the balustrade — that
he granted ; but she might as well have been
made of marble for aught of interest or animation
that she showed.

It angered him bitterly that the luxury and
extravagance with which she was surrounded
did not impress her more. It was so very
difficult to hurt a woman who cared for so
little; her indifference seemed to remove her
thousands of leagues away from him.

'You see it is of no use to be angry with
her,' he said to his confidant, Madame Jeanne.
You do not move her. She remains tranquil.
She does not oppose you, but neither does she
alter. She is like the snow, that is so white
and still and soft; but the snow is stronger
than you ; it will not stop for you.'

Madame Jeanne laughed a little.

My poor Sergius ! you hould marry ! '

Zouroff was silent ; his eyebrows were drawn
together in moody meditation.

Why had he married? he wondered. Because
a child's coldness, and a child's rudeness
had made her loveliness greater for a moment
in his sight than any other. Because, also, for
Vere, base as his passion had been, it had been
more nearly redeemed by tenderness than anything
he had ever known.

The snow is very still, it is true,' said
Madame Jeanne musingly ; ' but it can rise in a
very wild torments sometimes. You must have
seen that a thousand times.'

And you mean ? ' said Zouroff, turning

his eyes on her.

I mean that I think our sweet Yera is just
the person to have a cou de tete, and to forget
everything in it.'

She will never forget what is due to me,'
said Zouroff angrily and roughly.

Madame de Sonnaz laughed.

Do you fancy she cares about that ? what
she does think of is what is due to herself. I
always told you she is the type of woman that
one never sees now — the woman who is chaste
out of self-respect. It is admirable, it is
exquisite ; but all the same it is invulnerable ;
because it is only a finer sort of egotism.'

She will never forget her duty,' said her
husband peremptorily, as though closing the
discussion.

Certainly not,' assented his friend ; ' not
as long as it appears duty to her. But her

ideas of duty may change — who can say ? And,
mon cher, you do not very often remember yours
to her ! '

Zouroff blazed into a sullen passion, at
which Madame de Sonnaz laughed, as was her
wont, and turned her back on him, and lighted
a cigar.

'After all,' she said, 'what silly words we
use ! Duty ! — honour ! — obligation ! " Tout
cela est si present geograj)hique," as was said
at Marly long ago. I read the other day of
Albania, in which it is duty to kill forty men
for one, and of another country in which it is
duty for a widow to marry all her brothers-in-law.
Let us hope our Vera's views of geography
will never change.'

They were standing together in one of the
long alleys of the forest, which was resounding
with the baying of hounds and the shouting of
beaters. For all reply Sergius Zouroff put his
rifle to his shoulder ; a bear was being driven
down the drive.

'A moi ! ' cried Madame Jeanne. The great
brown mass came thundering through the

brushwood, and came into their sight; she
raised her gun, and sent a bullet through
its forehead, and snatched Zouroff's breech-loader
from him, and fired again. The bear
dropped ; there was a quick convulsive movement
of all its paws, then it was still forever.


I wish I could have married you ! ' cried
Zouroff enthusiastically. ' There is not another
woman in Europe who could have done that at
such a distance as we are ! '

Mon vieux, we should have loathed one
another,' said Madame Jeanne, in no way
touched by the compliment. * In a conjugal
capacity I much prefer my good Paul.'

Zouroff laughed — restored to good humour
and drew his hunting-knife to give the customary
stroke for surety to her victim. The
day was beautiful in the deep green gloom and
balmy solitude of the forest, which was chiefly
of pines.

Sport is very stupid,' said Madame Jeanne,
blowing her ivory horn to call the keepers.
Vera is employing her time much better, I am

sure ; she is reading metaphysics, or looking at
her orchids, or studying Nihilism.'

'Let me forget for a moment that Vera
exists,' said her husband, with his steel in the
bear's throat.

Vere was studvinof Nihilism, or what has
led to it, which comes to the same thing.

The only town near Svir was one of no
great importance, a few miles inland, whose
citizens were chiefly timber-traders, or owners
of trading ships, that went to and from the
Baltic. It had some churches, some schools,
some war of sects, and it had of late been in
evil odour with the government for suspected
socialist doctrines. It had been warned, punished,
purified, but of late was supposed to
have sinned again ; and the hand of the Third
Section had fallen heavily upon it.

Vere this day rode over to it, to visit one
of its hospitals ; her mother, and other ladies,
drove there to purchase sables and marten skins.

Lady Dolly had been so near — at Carlsbad,
a mere trifle of a few hundred miles — that she
hid been unable to resist the temptation of

running over for a peep at Svir, which she was
dying to see, so she averred. She was as pretty
as ever. She had changed the colour of her
curls, but that prevents monotony of expression,
and, if well done, is always admired. She had to
be a little more careful always to have her back
to the light, and there was sometimes about
her eyes lines which nothing would quite paint
away ; and her maid found her more pettish
and peevish. That was all ; twenty years
hence, if Lady Dolly live, there will be hardly
more difference than that.

Her Sicilian had been also on the banks of
the Temple — only for his health, for he was not
strong — but he had been too assiduous in
carrying her shawls, in ordering her dinners,
in walking beside her mule in the firewood, and
people began to talk ; and Lady Dolly did not
choose to imperil all that the flowers for the
Children's Hospitals, and the early services at
Knightsbridge, had done for her, so she had
summarily left the young man in the fir woods,
and come to Svir.

I always like to Witness my dear child's

happiness, you know, with my own eyes when
I can ; and in London and Paris both she and
I are so terribly busy,' she said to her friends
at Carlsbad.

Herself, she always recoiled from meeting
the grave eyes of Vere, and the smile of her
son-in-law was occasionally grim and disagreeable,
and made her shiver ; but yet she thought
it well to go to their houses, and she was really
anxious to see the glories of Svir.

When she arrived, there, she was enraptured.
She adored novelty, and new things are hard
to find for a person who has seen as much as
she had. The Russian life was, in a measure,
different to what she had known elsewhere, the
local colour enchanted her, and the obeisance
and humility of the people she declared were
quite scriptural.

The grandeur, the vastness, the absolute
dominion, the half-barbaric magnificence that
prevailed in this, the grandest summer palace
of the Zouroffs, delighted her; they appealed
forcibly to her imagination, which had its
vulgar side. They appeased her conscience.

too; for, after all, she thought, what could
Vere wish for more? Short of royalty, no
alliance could have given her more wealth,
more authority, and more rank.

These Baltic estates were a kingdom in
themselves, and the prodigal, careless, endless
luxury, that was the note of life there, was
mingled with a despotism and a cynicism in
all domestic relations that fascinated Ladj^
Dolly.

I should have been perfectly happy if I
had married a great Russian,' she often said to
herself; and she thought that her daughter
was both thankless to her fate and to her.
Lady Dolly really began to bring herself to
think so.

Very few women,' she mused, ' would ever
have effaced themselves as I did; very few
would have put away every personal feeling
and objection as I did. Of course she doesn't
know — but T don't believe any woman living
would have done as I did, because people are
so selfish.'

She had persuaded herself in all this time

that she had been generous, self-sacrificing,
even courageous, in marrying her daughter as
she did ; and when now and then a qualm
passed over her, as she thought that the world
might give all these great qualities very different
and darker names, Lady Dolly took a
little sherry or a little chloral, according to the
time of day, and very soon was herself again.

To be able to do no wrong at all in one's
own sight, is one of the secrets of personal
comfort in this life. Lady Dolly never admitted,
even to herself, that she did any. Tf
anything looked a little wrong, it was only
because she was the victim to unkindly circumstance
over which she had no control.

People had always been so jealous of her,
and so nasty to her about money.

It is all very well to talk about the saints,'
she would say to herself, ' but they never had
any real trials. If the apostles had had bills
due that they couldn't meet, or St. Helen and
St. Ursula had had their curls come off just as
they were being taken in to dinner, they might
have talked. As it was, I am sure they enjoyed

all their martyrdom, just as people scream about
being libelled in "Truth" or "Figaro," and
delight in having their names in them.'

Lady Dolly always thought herself an ill-used
woman. If things had been in the least
just, she would have been born with thirty
thousand a year, and six inches more stature.

Meanwhile she was even prettier than ever.
She had undergone a slight transformation;
her curls were of a richer ruddier hue, her
eyelashes were darker and thicker, her mouth
was like a little pomegranate bud. It was all
Piver ; but it was the very perfection of Piver.
She had considered that the hues and style ot
the fashions of the coming year, which were
always disclosed to her very early in secret
conclave in the Eue de la Paix, required this
slight deepening and heightening of her complexion.


I do wish you would induce Vera to rouge
a little, just a little. Dress this winter really
will want it ; the colours will all be dead ones,'
she had said this day at Svir to her son-in-law,
who shrugged his shoulders.

I have told her she would look better ; but
she is obstinate, you know.'

Oh-heh ! ' assented Lady Dolly. ' Obstinate
is no word for it ; she is mulish ; of course,
I understand that she is very proud of her skin,
but it would look all the better if it were warmed
up a little ; it is too white, too fair, if one can
say such a thing, don't you know? And,
besides, even though she may look well now
without it, a woman who never rouges has a
frightful middle-age before her. Didn't Talleyrand
say so ? '

You are thinking of whist ; but the meaning
is the same. Both are resources for autumn
that it is better to take to in summer,' said Madame
Nelaguine, with her little cynical smile.

Vera is very fantastic,' said the Duchesse
Jeanne. ' Besides, she is so handsome she is
not afraid of growing older; she thinks she will
defy Time.'

I believe you can if you are well enamelled,'
said Lady Dolly seriously.

Vera will be like the woman under the
Merovingian kings,' said Madame Nelaguine.

The woman who went every dawn of her life
out into the forests at daybreak hear the birds
sing, and so remained, by angels' blessing, perpetually
young.'

I suppose there was no society in France
in that time,' said Lady Dolly ; ' or else the
woman was out of it. In society everybody has
always painted. I think they found all sorts of
rouge-pots at Pompeii, which is so touching,
and brings all those poor dear creatures so near
to us ; and it just shows that human nature
was always exactly the same.'

The Etruscan focolare, I dare say, were
trays of cosmetics,' suggested Madame Nela-
guide sympathetically.

Yes ? ' said Lady Dolly, whose history was
vague. * It is so interesting, I think, to feel
that everybody was always just exactly alike,
and that when they complain of us it is such
nonsense, and mere spite. Vera, why will you
not rouge a little, a very little ? '

I think it a disgusting practice,' said her
daughter, who had entered the room at that
moment, dressed for riding.

Well, I think so too,' said Madame Nela-
guide with a little laugh. ' I think so too,
though I do it ; but my rouge is very honest ;
I am exactly like the wooden dolls, with a red
dab on each cheek, that they sell for the babies
at fairs. Vera would be a sublime wax doll, no
doubt, if she rouged; but, as it is, she is a
marble statue. Surely that is the finer work of
art.'

The age of statues is past,' murmured the
Duchess Jeanne. ' We are in the puppet and
monkey epoch.'

It is all cant to be against painting,' said
Lady Dolly. ' Who was it said that the spider
is every bit as artificial as the weaver ? '

'Joseph le Maitre,' said Madame Nelaguine,
but he means '

He means, to be sure,' said Lady Dolly
with asperity, 'that unless one goes without
any clothes at all, like savages, one must be
artificial; and one may just as well be becomingly
so as frightfully so ; only I know
frights are always thought natural, as snubbing,
snapping creatures are thought so sweetly

VOL. III.

sincere. But it doesn't follow one bit ; the
frights have most likely only gone to the wrong
people to get done up.'

And the disagreeable snappers and numbers
and snarlers ? '

Got out of bed the wrong end upwards,'
said Lady Dolly, ' or have forgotten to take
their dinner-pills.'

I begin to think you are a philosopher,
Lady Dolly.'

-I hojje I am nothing so disagreeable,' said
Lady Dolly. ' But at least I have eyes, and my
eyes tell me what a wretched, dull, pawky-looking
creature a woman that doesn't do herself
up looks at a ball.'

Even at twenty years old ? '

Age has nothing to do with it,' said Lady
Dolly very angrily. ' That is a man's idea.
People don't paint because they're old; they
paint to vary themselves, to brighten themselves,
to clear themselves. A natural skin may
do very well in Arcadia, but it won't do where
there are candles and gas. Besides, a natural
skin's always the same ; but when you paint,

you make it just what goes best with the gown
you have got on for the day ; and as women
grow older what are they to do ? It is all very
well to say "bear it' but who helps you to
bear it ? Not society, which shelves you ; not
men, who won't look at you ; not women, who
count your curls if they are false, and your grey
hairs if they are real. It is all very well to talk
poetry, but who likes decheance. It is all very
well to rail about artificiality and postiche, but
who forced us to be artificial, and who made
postiche a necessity? Society; society; society.
Would it stand a woman who had lost all her
teeth and who had a bald head ? Of course not.
Then whose is the fault if the woman goes to
the dentist and the hair-dresser ? She is quite
right to go. But it is absurd to say that
society does not make her go. All this cry
about artificiality is cant, all cant. Who are
admired in a ball-room ? The handsome
women who are not young but are dressed to
perfection, painted to perfection, coiffred to perfection,
and are perfect bits of colour. If they
come out without their i^osticlie who would look

c 2

at them ? Mothers of boys and girls you say ?
Yes, of course they are; but that is their misfortune
; it is no reason why they shouldn't look as
well as they can look, and, besides, nowadays it
is only married women that are looked at, and
children in short frocks, which is disgusting.'

Lady Dolly paused for breath, having talked
herself into some confusion of ideas, and went
away to dress and drive.

She forgot the wrongs of fate as she drove to
Molv with the old ambassador Lord Bangor, who
was staying there, and a charming young
Russian of the Guard, whose golden head and
fair beauty made her Sicilian seem to her in
memory yellow and black as an olive ; he had
really had nothing good but his eyes, she
reflected as she drove.

When she reached Molv she admired
everything ; the bearded priests, the churches,
the bells, the pink and yellow houses, the
Byzantine shrines. She was in a mood to
praise. What was not interesting was so droll,
and what was not droll was so interesting. If
her companion of the Imperial Guard had not

had a head like a Circassian chief, and a form like
Hercules, she might perhaps have found out that
Molv was ugly and very flat, dirty and very unsavoury,
and so constituted that it became a pool
of mud in winter, and in summer a shoal of sand.
But she did not see these things, and she was
charmed. She was still more charmed when
she had bought her seal skins and sables at a
price higher than she would have given in
Regent Street ; and, coming out opposite the
gilded and painted frontage of the chief church,
which was that of St. Vladimir, she saw a sad
sight.

Nothing less than a score of young men
and a few women being taken by a strong force
of Cossacks to the fortress ; the townspeople
looking on, gathered in groups, quite silent,
grieved but dumb, like poor beaten dogs.

Dear me ! how very interesting ! ' said
Lady Dolly, and she put up her eye-glasses.
How very interesting ! some of them quite
nice-looking, too. What have they done P '

The Russian of the Guard explained to her
that they were suspected of revolutionary conspiracies,

had harboured suspected persons, or
were suspected themselves : Mhilists, in a word.

How very interesting ! ' said Lady Dolly
again. ' Now, one would never see such a sight
as that in England, Lord Bangor ? '

'No,' said Lord Bangor seriously; 'I don't
think we should. There are defects in our
constitution '

Poor things ! ' said Lady Dolly, a pretty
figure in feuillemorte and violet, with a jewelled
ebony cane as high as her shoulder, surveying
through her glass the chained, dusty, heartsick
prisoners. ' But why couldn't they keep
quiet ? So stupid of them ! I never understand
those revolutionaries ; they upset everything,
and bore everybody, and think themselves
martyrs ! It will be such a pity if you do get
those horrid principles here. Russia is too
charming as it is ; everybody so obedient and
nice as they are at present, everybody kneeling
and bowing, and doing what they're told — not
like tis with our horrid servants, who take themselves
off the very day of a big party, or say they
won't stay if they haven't pine-apples. I think

the whole social system of Russia perfect — quite
perfect ; only it must have been nicer still before
the Tsar was too kind, and let loose all those
serfs, who, I am quite sure, haven't an idea what
to do with themselves, and will be sure to shoot
him for it some day.'

Lady Dolly paused in these discursive
political utterances, and looked again at the
little band of fettered youths and maidens,
dusty, pale, jaded, who were being hustled along
by the Cossacks through the silent scattered
groups of the people. A local official had been
wounded by a shot from a revolver, and they
were all implicated, or the police wished to suppose
them to be implicated, in the offence. They
were being carried away beyond the Ourals ;
their parents, and brothers and sisters, and
lovers knew very well that never more would
their young feet tread the stones of their native
town. A silence like that of the grave — which
would perhaps be the silence of the grave
would soon engulf and close over them.
Henceforth they would be mere memories to
those who loved them : no more.

Tliej look very harmless said Lady Dolly,
disappointed that conspirators did not look a
little as they do on the stage. ' Really, you
know, if it wasn't for these handcuffs, one
might take them for a set of excursionists ;
really now, oughtn't we? Just that sort of
jaded, dusty, uncomfortable look '

Consequent on '' three shillings to Margate
and back." Yes; they have a Bank holiday
look,' said Lord Bangor. 'But it will be a
long Bank holiday for them ; they are on their
first stage to Siberia.'

How interesting ! ' said Lady Dolly.

At that moment an old white-haired woman,
with a piercing cry broke through the ranks,
and fell on the neck of a young man, clinging
to him for all that the police could do, till the
lances of the Cossacks parted the mother and
son.

It is a sad state of things for any country,'
said Lord Bangor ; and the young captain of
the Guard laughed.

Well, why couldn't they keep quiet ? ' said
Lady Dolly. ' Dear me ! with all this crowd,

however shall we find the carriage ? Where is
Vere, I wonder? But she said we need not
wait for her. Don't you think we had better
go home ? I shouldn't like to meet wolves.'

Wolves are not hungry in summer,' said
Lord Bangor. ' It is only the prison's maw
that is never full.'

Well, what are they to do if people won't
keep quiet?' said Lady Dolly. i'm sure
those young men and women do not look like
geniuses that would be able to set the world on
fire. I suppose they are work-people, most of
them. They will do very well, I dare say, in
Tomsk. Count Rostrow, here, tells me the exiles
are beautifully treated, and quite happy ; and
all that is said about the quicksilver mines is all
exaggeration ; newspaper nonsense.'

No doubt,' said Lord Bangor. ' To object
to exile is a mere bad form of Calvinism.'

Why couldn't they keep quiet if they don't
like to go there ? ' she said again ; and got into
the carriage, and drove away out into the road
over the plain, between the great green sea of
billowy grasses, and the golden ocean of ripened

grain ; and, in time, bowled through the gilded
gates of Svir ; and ate her dinner with a good
appetite ; and laughed till she cried at the
drolleries of a new operetta of Meta's, which
the French actors gave in the little opera-house.


Life is so full of contrasts in Russia ; it is
quite delightful ; one can't be dull,' she said to
Lord Bangor, who sat beside her.

Life is full of contrasts everywhere, my
dear lady,' said he. ' Only, as a rule, we
never look on the other side of the wall. It
bores ns even to remember that there is another
side.'

Vere that night was paler and stiller even
than it was her wont to be. She went about
amongst her guests with that grace and courtesy
which never changed, but she was absent in
mind ; and once or twice, as the laughter of the
audience rippled in echo to the ga}^ melodies
of Meta, a shiver as of cold went over her.

She must have heard something about
Correze that has embarrassed her,' thought
Madame de Sonnaz, but she was wrong.

Vere had only seen the same sight that her
mother had seen, in the little town of Molv.

That night, when the house party had
broken up to go to their apartments, and she
had gained the comparative peace of her own
chamber, Vere, when her maids had passed a
loose white gown over her and unloosened her
hair, sent them away, and went into the little
oratory that adjoined her dressing-room. She
kneeled down, and leaned her arms on the rail of
the little altar, and her head on her arms ; but
she could not pray. Life seemed to her too
terrible ; and who cared ? who cared ?

Riches had done their best to embellish the
little sanctuary : the walls were inlaid with
malachite and marbles ; the crucifix was a
wonderful work in ivory and silver ; the juries
was embroidered in silks and precious
stones ; there was a triptych of Luke von
Cranach, and Oriental candelabra in gold. It
was a retreat that had been sacred to the
dead Princess Mania, her husband's mother,
a pious and melancholy woman.

Vere cared little for any of these things ;

but the place was really to her a sanctuary, as
no one ever disturbed her there ; even Zouroff
never had presumed to enter it ; and the
painted casements, when they were opened,
showed her the green plain, and, beyond the
plain, the beautiful waters of the Baltic. Here
she could be tranquil now and then, and try to
give her thoughts to her old friends the Latin
writers ; or read the verse of George Herbert
or the prose of Thomas a Kempis, and pray for
force to bear the life she led.

But to-night she could not pray.

She was one of those who are less strong
for the woes of others than for her own.

She leaned her face upon her arms, and
only wondered — wondered — wondered — why
men were so cruel, and God so deaf.

It was nearly two in the morning ; through
the painted panes the stars were shining;
beyond the plain there was the silver of the
dawn.

Suddenly' a heavy step trod on the marbles
of the pavement. For the first time since their
marriage, her husband entered the place of

prayer. She turned, and half rose in astonishment,
and her heart grew sick; she was not
safe from him even here. He marked the
instinct of aversion, and hated her for it ; the
time was gone by when it allured and enchained
him.

Excuse me for my entrance here,' he
said with that courtesy to which the presence
of his wife always compelled him, despite himself.
' I am exceedingly annoyed, compromised,
disgusted. You were in Molv to-day ? '

Yes ; I rode there. I went to see your
mother's hospital.'

She had quite risen, and stood, with one
hand on the altar rail, looking at him.

I hear that you saw those prisoners ; that
you spoke to them ; that you made a scene, a
scandal ; that you gave one of the women your
handkerchief; that you promised them all
kinds of impossible follies. Be so good as to
tell me what happened.'

Who spies upon me ? ' said Vere, with the
colour rising to her face.

Spies ! No one. If you choose to exhibit

yourself in a public street, a hundred people
may well see you. What did happen ? Answer
me.'

This happened. I met the prisoners. I
do not believe any of them are guilty of the
attempt to assassinate General Marcoloff. They
are all very young, several were girls ; one
of the girls broke from the guards, and threw
herself before me, sobbing and begging
my help. Her arm was cut and bleeding,
I suppose in fastening the chains; I took
my handkerchief and bound it up ; I promised
her to support her mother, who is old and
infirm. I spoke to them all and bade
them try and bear their fate calmly. I wept
with them, that I confess ; but I was not alone
there were not many dry eyes in Molv. I
believe all these young people to be quite
innocent. I believe if the Emperor saw the
things that are done in his name, he would not
sanction them. That is all I have to tell you.
It has haunted me all the evening. It is
horrible that such tyrannies should be ; and
that we should dine, and laugh, and spend

thousands of roubles in a night, and live as if
no living creatures were being tortured near
us. I cannot forget it ; and I will do what I
can to serve them.'

She had never spoken at such a length to
her husband in all the three years of her
married life ; but she felt strongly, and it
seemed to her that here reticence would have
been cowardice. She spoke quite tranquilly,
but her voice had a depth in it that told how
keenly she had been moved.

Zouroff heard her with a scowl upon his
brows ; then he laughed contemptuously and
angrily.

You believe ! ' he echoed. ' What should
you know, and why should you care ? Will
you learn to leave those things alone? A
Princess Zouroff dismounting in the dust to
bind up the wounds of a Nihilist convict !
What a touching spectacle ! But we will have
no more of these scenes if you please ; they
are very unbecoming, and, more, they are very
compromising. The Emperor knows me well,
indeed, but enemies might carry such a tale to

him ; and he might see fit to suspect, to order
me not to leave Russia, to imprison me on my
estates. It is as likely as not that your
theatrical vagaries may get bruited about at
Court. I neither know nor care whether these
creatures shot Marcoloff or abetted shooting at
him ; what I do care for is the dignity of my
name.'

Vere, standing beside the great ivory crucifix,
with the draperies of plush and ermine
falling about her, and her fair hair unbound
and falling over her shoulders, turned her face
more fully upon him. There was. a faint smile
upon her lips.

The dignity of your name ! ' she said
merely ; and the accent said the rest.

The calm contempt pierced his vanity
and his self-love, and made him wince and
smart. The first sign she had given that
the unworthiness of his life was known to
her had been when she had ordered him to
remove the pavilion of Noisette. He had
always set her aside as a beautiful, blonde,
ignorant, religious creature, and the shock was

great to him to find in her a judge who censured
and scorned him.

'The dignity of my name he repeated
sullenly and with greater insistance. ' We
were great nobles with the Dolgarouki, when
the Romanos were nothing. I do not choose
my name to be dragged in the dust because
you are headstrong enough, or childish enough,
to fancy some incendiaries and assassins are
martyrs. Have politics, if you like, in Paris in
your drawing-room, but leave them alone here.
They are dangerous here, and worse than
dangerous. They are low. I deny you nothing
else. You have money at your pleasure, amusement,
jewels, anything you like ; but I forbid
you political vulgarities. I was disgusted when
I heard of the spectacle of this morning ; I was
ashamed '

Is it not rather a matter for shame that
we eat and drink, and laugh and talk, with all
this frightful agony around us ? ' said Vere,
with a vibration of rare passion in her voice.
'The people may be wrong; they may be
guilty ; but their class have so much to avenge,

VOL. III. D

and your class so much to expiate, that their
offence cannot equal yours. You think I cannot
understand these things? You are mistaken.
There are suffering and injustice enough
on your own lands of Svir alone to justify a
revolution. I know it ; I see it ; I suffer under
it ; suffer because I am powerless to remedy it,
and I am supposed to be acquiescent in it. If
you allowed me to interest myself in your
country, I would try not to feel every hour in it
an exile ; and the emptiness and nothingness of
my life would cease to oppress and to torment

me '

Silence ! ' said Zouroff, with petulance.
'You may come here for prayer, but I do
not come here for sermons. The emptiness
of your life ! What do you mean ? You are
young, and you are beautiful ; and you have in
me a husband who asks nothing of you except
to look well and to spend money. Cannot you
be happy? Think of your new cases from
Worth's, and let political agitators keep the
monopoly of their incendiary rubbish. You
have been the beauty of Paris and Petersburg

for three years. That should satisfy any
woman.'

'It merely insults me she answered him.
Society comes and stares. So it stares at the
actress Noisette, so it stares at that nameless
woman whom you call Casse-une Route. Is
that a thing to be proud of? You may be so ;
I am not. Men make me compliments, or try
to make them, that I esteem no better than
insults. Your own friends are foremost. They
talk of my portraits, of my busts, of my jewels,
of my dresses. Another year it will be someone
else that they will talk about, and they
will cease to look at me. They find me cold,
they find me stupid. I am glad that they do ;
if they did otherwise, I should have lived to
despise myself.'

Nom de Dieu ! ' muttered Zouroff ; and he
stared at her, wondering if she had said the
names of Noisette and Casse-une-Croute by
hazard, or if she knew ? He began to think
she knew. He had always thought her blind
as a statue, ignorant as a nun ; but, as she stood
before him, for the first time letting loose the

D 2

disdain and the weariness that consumed her
heart into words, he began slowly to perceive
that, though he had wedded a child, she was a
child no longer; he began to perceive that, after
three years in the great world, his wife had
grown to womanhood with all that knowledge
which the great world alone can give.

As she had said nothing to him, after the
Kermesse, of the absence of Noisette, he had
fancied her anger a mere hostage, due perhaps
to pride, which he knew was very strong in her.
Now he saw that his wife's silence had arisen
not from ignorance but from submission to what
she conceived to be her duty, or perhaps, more
likely still, from scorn; a scorn too profound
and too cold to stoop to reproach or to reproof.

Why cannot you be like any other woman ? '
he muttered. * Why cannot you content yourself
with your chiffons, your conquests, your
beauty ? If you were an ugly woman one could
understand your taking refuge in religion and
politics ; but, at your age, with your face and
figure ! Good heavens ! it is too ridiculous ! *

The eyes of Vere grew very stern.

That is your advice to me ? to content
myself with my chiffons and my conquests ? '

Certainly ; any other woman would. I
know you are to be trusted ; you will never let
men go too far.'

If I dragged your name in the dust
throughout Europe you would deserve it,'
thought his wife ; and a bitter retort rose to
her lips. But she had been reared in other
ways than mere obedience to every impulse of
act or speech. She still believed, despite the
Avorld about her, that the word she had given
in her marriage vow required her forbearance
and her subjection to Sergius Zouroff — she was
still of the ' old fashion.'

She controlled her anger and her disdain,
and turned her face full on him with something
pleading and wistful in the proud eyes that
had still the darkness of just scorn.

You prefer the society of Noisette and
Casse-une-Croute ; why do you need mine too ?
Since they amuse you, and can content you,
cannot you let me be free of all this gilded
bondage, which is but a shade better than their

gilded infancy ? You bid me occupy myself
with chiffons and conquests. I care for neither.
Will you give me what I could care for ? This
feverish frivolous life of the great world has no
charm for me. It suits me in nothing; neither
in health nor taste, neither in mind nor body.
I abhor it. I was reared in other ways, and
with other thoughts. It is horrible to me to
waste the year from one end to the other on
mere display, mere dissipation — to call it
amusement is absurd, for it amuses no one. It
is a monotony, in its way, as tiresome as any
other.'

It is the life we all lead,' he interrupted
her with some impatience. ' There is intrigue
enough in it to salt it, God knows ! '

Not for me,' said Vere coldly, with an
accent that made him feel ashamed. ' You do
not understand me — I suppose you never will ;
but, to speak practically, will you let me pass
my time on one of your estates ; if not herein
Poland, where the people suffer more, and
where I might do good ? I have more strength
of purpose than you fancy; I would educate

the peasant children, and try and make your
name beloved and honoured on your lands —
not cursed, as it is now. Let me live that
sort of life, for half the year at least ; let
me feel that all the time God gives me is not
utterly wasted. I helped many in Paris ; I
could do more, so much more, here. I
would make your people love me; and then,
perhaps, peace at least would come to me.
I am most unhappy now. You must have
known it always, but I think you never
cared.'

The simplicity of the words, spoken as a
child would have spoken them, had an intense
pathos in them, uttered as they were by a
woman scarcely twenty, who was supposed to
have the world at her feet. For one moment
they touched the cold heart of Zouroff, as once
before at Felicite the uplifted eyes of Yere had
touched him at their betrothal, and almost
spurred him to renunciation of her and refusal
of her sacrifice. And she looked so young, with
her hair falling back over her shoulders, and
behind her the white crucifix and the stars of

40 MOTHS.

the morning skies — and her child had died hereat
Svir.

For the moment his face softened, and he
Twas moved to a vague remorse and a vague
pity ; for a moment Noisette and ,
and even Jeanne de Sonnaz, looked to
him vulgar and common beside his wife ; for a
moment les verses pais ti cabaret brutal seemed
tainted by the many lips that used them, and
this pure golden cup seemed worthy of a god.
But the moment passed, and the long habits
and humours of a loose and selfish life resumed
their sway within him ; and he only saw a lovely
woman whom he had bought as he bought the
others, only with a higher price.

He took the loose gold of her hair in his
hands with a sudden caress and drew her into
his arms.

Pardieu ! ' he said with a short laugh. ' A
very calm proposition for a separation ! That
is what you drive at, no doubt ; a separation in
which you should have all the honours as
Princess Zouroff still ! No, my lovely Vera, I
am not disposed to gratify you, — so. You

belong to me, and you must continue to belong
to me, nilly-willy. You are too handsome to
lose, and you should be grateful for your
beauty ; it made you mistress of Svir. Pshaw !
how you shudder ! You forget you must pay
now and then for your diamonds.'

There are many martyrdoms as there are
many prostitutions that law legacies and the
churches approve.

She never again prayed in her oratory. The
ivory Christ had failed to protect her.

All the month long there was the pressure
of social obligations upon her, the hot-house
atmosphere of a Court about her, for imperial
guests followed on those who had left a few
days earlier, and there could be no hour of
freedom for the mistress of Svir.

Her mother was radiantly content; Count
Rostrow was charming; and a Grand Duke
found her still a pretty woman ; play was high
most nights ; and the Sicilian was forgotten.
All that troubled her was that her daughter
never looked at her if she could help it, never
spoke to her except on the commonplace

courtesies and trifles of the hour. Not that
she cared, only she sometimes feared other
people might notice it.

These days seemed to Vere the very longest
in all her life. Her apathy had changed into
bitterness, her indifference was growing into
despair. She thought, with unutterable scorn,
If the world would only allow it, he would
have Casse-une-Croute here ! '

She was nothing more in her husband's
eyes than Casse-une-Croute was.

All the pride of her temper, and all the
purity of her nature, rose against him. As she
wore his jewels, as she sat at his table, as she
received his guests, as she answered to his
name, all her soul was in revolt against him ;
such revolt as to the women of her world
seemed the natural instinct of a woman towards
her husband, a thing to be indulged in without
scruple or stint, but which to her, in whom
were all the old faiths and purities of a forgotten
creed, seemed a sin.

A sin ! — did the world know of such a
thing? Hardly. Now and then, for sake of

its traditions, the world took some hapless boy,
or some still yet unhappier woman, and pilloried
one of them, and drove them out under a shower
of stones, selecting them by caprice, persecuting
them without justice, slaying them because
they were friendless. But this was all.

For the most part, sin was an obsolete
thing ; archaic and unheard of ; public prints
chronicled the sayings and the doings of
Noisette and Casse-une-Croute ; society chirped
and babbled merrily of all the filth that
satirists scarce dare do more than hint at
lest they fall under the law. There was no
longer on her eyes the blindness of an innocent
unconscious youth. She saw corruption all
around her ; a corruption so general, so insidious,
so lightly judged, so popular, that it
was nearly universal ; and amidst it the few
isolated souls, that it could not taint and claim
and absorb, were lost as in a mist, and could
not behold each other.

A dull hopelessness weighed upon her. Her
husband had counselled her to lose herself in
chiffons and in conquests !

She knew very well he would not care if she
obeyed him ; nay, that he would perhaps like
her the better. As he had often bade her put
red upon her cheeks, so he would have awakened
to a quicker esteem of her if he had seen her
leaving ballrooms in the light of morning,
with the ribbons of the cotillons on her breast,
smiling on her lovers above the feathers of
her fan, provoking with effrontery the gaze
of passion, answering its avowals with smiling
reproof that meant forgiveness, and passing
gaily through the masque of society with kohl
around her eyes, and a jest upon her mouth,
and hidden in her bosom or her bouquet some
royal lover's note. He would have esteemed
her more highly so. Perhaps, then, she might
even have stood higher in his eyes than .


She thought this, as she sat in the evening
at his table, with her imperial guests beside
her, and, before her eyes, the glow of the gold
plate with the Zourotf crown upon it. She was
as white as alabaster ; her eyes had a sombre
indignation in them ; she wore her Order of

St, Catherine and her necklace of the moth
and the star.

If one did not keep to honour, for
honour's sake she thought, ' what would he
not make me ! — I should be viler than any one
of them.'

For, as she saw her husband's face above
that broad gleam of gold, the longing for one
instant came over her, with deadly temptation,
to take such vengeance as a wife can always
take, and teach him what fruit his own
teachings brought, and make him the byword
and mock of Europe.

The moment passed.

He cannot make me vile,' she thought.
No one can — save myself.'

As her breast heaved quicker with the
memory, the ever trembling moth of the medallion
rose and touched the star.

An allegory or a talisman ? ' said one of
the imperial guests who sat on her right hand,
looking at the jewel.

^ Both, sir,' answered Vere.

Later in the evening, when, after seeing a

Proverb exquisitely acted, the princes were
for the present hour absorbed in the card-room,
Madame Nelaguine lingered for a moment by
her sister-in-law. Vere had gone for an instant
on to the terrace, which overlooked the sea, as
did the terrace of Felicite.

Are you well to-day, my Vera "? '
As well as usual.'

I think Ischl did you little good.'

'Ischl? What should Ischl do for me?
The Traun is no Lethe.'

Will you never be content, never be resigned?
'

I think not.'

Madame Nelaguine sighed.

She had never been a good woman, nor a
true one, in her world; but in her affection
for her brother's wife she was sincere.

Tell me,' said Vere abruptly, ' tell me —
you are his sister, I may say so to you — tell
me it does not make a woman's duty less, that
her husband forgets his ? '

'No, dear — at least — no — I suppose not.
No, of course not,' said Madame Nelaguine.

She had been a very faithless wife herself, but
of that Vere knew nothing.

It does not change one's own obligation
to him,' said Vere wearily, with a feverish
flush coming over her face. ' No ; that I
feel. What one promised, one must abide
by ; that is quite certain. Whatever be does,
one must not make that any excuse to leave
him?'

She turned her clear and noble eyes full
upon his sister's, and the eyes of Madame
Nelaguine shunned the gaze and fell.

My dear,' she said evasively, ' no, no ; no
wife must leave her husband ; most certainly
not. She must bear everything without avenging
any insult ; because the world is always ready
to condemn the woman — it hardly ever will
condemn the man. And a wife, however
innocent, however deeply to be pitied, is always
in a false position when she quits her husband's
house. She is declassee at once. However
much other women feel for her, they will
seldom receive her. Her place in tLe ^vorld is
gone, and when she is young, above all, to

break up her married life is social ruin. Pray,
pray do not ever think of that. Sergius has
grave faults, terrible faults, to you ; but do not
attempt to redress them yourself. You would
only lose caste, lose sympathy, lose rank at
once. Pray, pray, do not think of that.'

Yere withdrew her hand from her sister-in-law's
; a shadow of disappointment came on
her face, and then altered to a sad disdain.

I was not thinking of what I should lose,'
she said, recovering her tranquillity. ' That
would not weigh with me for a moment. I
was thinking of what is right ; of what a wife
should be before God.'

You are sublime, my dear,' said the
Russia princess, a little irritably because her
own consciousness of her own past smote her
and smarted. ' You are sublime. But you are
many octaves higher than our concert pitch.
No one now ever thinks in the sort of way that
you do. You would have been a wife for
Milton. My brother is, alas ! quite incapable
of appreciating all that devotion.'

His power of appreciation is not the

measure of my conduct,' said Yere, with a
contempt that would have been bitter had it
not been so weary.

'That is happy for him,' said his sister
drily. ' But, in sad and sober truth, my Vera,
your ideas are too high for the world we live
in ; you are a saint raising an oriflamme above
a holy strife ; and we are only a rabble of
common maskers — who laugh.'

You can laugh.'

'I do not laugh, heaven knows,' said her
sister-in-law, with a glisten of water in her
shrewd, bright eyes, that could not bear the
candid gaze of Yere. ' I do not laugh. I
understand you. If I never could have been
like you, I revere you — yes. But it is of no
use, my dear, no use, alas ! to bring these true
and high emotions into common life. They
are too exalted ; they are fit for higher air.
Roughly and coarsely if you will, but truly, I
will tell you there is nothing of nobility, nothing
of duty, in marriage, as our world sees it ; it
is simply — a convenience, a somewhat clumsy
contrivance to tide over a social difficulty. Do
VOL. III. :6

not think of it as anything else ; if you do, one
day disgust will seize you ; your high and holy
faiths will snap and break ; and then '

And then ? '

Then you will be of all women most
unhappy; for I think you could not endure
your life if you despised yourself.'

I have endured it,' said Vere in a low
voice. ' You think I have not despised myself
every day, every night ? '

Not as I mean. The wrong has been done
to you. You have done none. All the difference
lies there — ah, such a difference, my
dear ! The difference between the glacier and
the mud-torrent ! '

Yere was silent. Then, with a shiver, she
drew her Avraps about her as the cold wind
came over the sea.

Shall we go in the house ? It is chilly
here,' she said to her sister-in-law.

The two shooting-months passed at Svir;
brilliantly to all the guests, tediously and
bitterly to the mistress of the place. Lady
Dolly had early vanished to see the fair of Nijni
Novgorod with a pleasant party, and Count
Strow for their guide ; and had vague
thoughts of going down the river and seeing
the spurs of the Caucasus, and meeting her
husband in St. Petersburg, where, so enraptured
was she with the country, she almost thought
she would persuade him to live. Due Paul
and Duchesse Jeanne had gone on a round of
visits to friends in Croatia, Courland, and
Styria. Troops of guests in succession had

E 2

iVP.

RN^^ r«\AHO\^

arrived, stayed at, and departed from, the great
Zouroff palace on the Baltic; and, when the
first snows were falling, Sergius Zouroff
travelled back to his villa on the Riviera with
no more preparation or hesitation than he
would have needed to drive from the Barrier
de I'Etoile to the Rue Helter.

What waste it all is ! ' thought his wife, as
she looked at the grand front of Svir, its magnificent
forests and its exquisite gardens.
For ten months out of the year Svir, like
Felicite, was like a hundred thousand castles
and palaces in Europe ; it served only for the
maintenance and pleasure of a disorderly and
idle troop of hirelings, unjust stewards, and
fattening thieves of all sorts.

What would you do with it if you had
your way ? ' asked Madame Nelaguine.

She answered, *I would live in it; or I
would turn it into a Russian St. Cyr.'

Always sublime, my love ! ' said Madame
Nelaguine, with a touch of asperity and ridicule.

The towers of Svir faded from Vere's sight
in the blue mists of evening ; a few days and

nights followed and then the pocketed pinnacles
and metal roofs of the Riviera villa
greeted her sight against the blue sky and the
blue water of the gulf of Saint-Hospice.

This is accounted the perfection of life she
thought. ' To have half a dozen admirably
appointed hotels all your own, and among them
all — no home ! '

The married life of Vere had now begun to
pass into that stage common enough in our day,
when the husband and the wife are utter strangers
one to another ; their only exchange of
words being when the presence of others compels
it, and their only appearance together being
when society necessitates it.

A sort of fear had fallen on Sergius Zouroff
of her, and she was thankful to be left in peace.
Thousands of men and women live thus in the
world; never touch each other's hand, never
seek each other's glance, never willingly spend
five seconds alone, yet make no scandal and
have no rupture, and go out into society
together, and carry on the mocking semblance
of union till death parts them.

Again and again Vere on her knees in her
solitude tried to examine the past and see what
blame might rest on her for her failure to
influence her husband and withhold him from
vice, but she could see nothing that she might
have done. Even had she been a woman who
had loved him she could have done nothing.
His feeling for her had been but a mere animal
impulse ; his habits were engrained in every
fibre of his temper. If she had shown him any
tenderness, he would have repulsed it with
some cynical word ; fidelity to his ear was a
mere phrase, meaning nothing ; honour in his
creed was comprised in one thing only, never
to shrink before a man. Even if she had been
a woman who had cared for him she would have
had no power to alter his ways of life. Innocent
women seldom have any influence. Jeanne de
Sonnaz could always influence Zouroff; Vere
never could have done so, let her have essayed
what she would. For be the fault where
it may in our social system, the wife never
has the power or the dominion that has the
mistress.

A proud woman, moreover, will not stoop as
low as it is necessary to do to seize the reins
of tyranny over a fickle or sluggish tempered
man ; what is not faithful to her of its own willa
proud woman lets go where it may without
effort, and with resignation, or with scorn,
according as love or indifference move her to
the faithless.

The first thing she saw on her table at
Villafranca was a letter from her mother.

Lady Dolly had found the Caucasus quite
stupidly like the Engadine; she thought St.
Petersburg a huge barrack and hideous ; the
weather was horribly cold, and she was coming
back to Paris as quickly as she could. She
would just stay a day, passing, at the villa.

Count Rostrow has not come up to her
expectations of him,^ thought Madame Nela-
guide.

Yere said nothing.

If she could have prayed for anything, she
would have prayed never to be near her mother.
Lady Dolly was a living pain, a living shame,
to her, now, even as she had been on that first

day when she had stepped on shore from the
boat of Correze, and seen the figure of her
mother in the black and yellow stripes of the
bathing-dress ont in the full sunshine of Trou-ville.


But Lady Dolly wanted to forget the slights
of Count Rostrow ; wanted to play at Monaco ;
wanted to be seen by her English friends with
her daughter ; and so Lady Dolly, who never
studied any wishes but her own, and never
missed a point in the game of self she always
played, chose to come, and as she drove up
between the laurel and myrtle hedges, and
looked at the white walls and green verandahs
of the villa, rising above the palms, and
magnolias, and Lilian converse of its grounds,
said to herself: 'With three such places on
three seas, and two such houses in Paris and
St. Petersburg as she has, what on earth can
she want to be happy 'P '

Honestly, she could not understand it. It
seemed to her very strange.

But she is within a stone's throw of the
tables, and she has oceans of money, and yet

she never plays,' she thought again ; and this
seemed to her yet more unnatural still.

She is very odd in all ways she thought
in conclusion, as the carriage brushed the scent
out of the bruised arbutus leaves as it passed.

Life for Vere was quieter on the Riviera
than elsewhere. There were but few people
in the house ; these spent nearly the Avhole
of their time at Monte Carlo ; and she had
many of her own hours free to do with as
she chose.

Her husband never asked her to go to Monte
Carlo. It was the one phase of the world that
he spared her. In himself he felt that he did
not are for those grand grave eyes to see him
throwing away his gold, and getting drunk
with the stupid intoxication of that idiotic
passion, with his helles petites about him, and
the unlovely crowd around. Vere lived within
a few miles of the brilliant Hell under the
Tete du Chien, but she had never once set foot
in it.

The change from the strong air of the
Baltic to the hot and languid autumn weather

of the south affected her strength; she felt
feverish and unwell. She had been reared in
the fierce fresh winds of the north, and these
rose-scented breezes and fragrant orange alleys
seemed to stifle her in 'aromatic pain.'

Perhaps I grow fretful and fanciful,' she
thought, with a sudden alarm and anger at
herself. ' What use is it for me to blame each
place I live in? The malady is in myself. If
I could only work, be of use, care for something,
I should be well enough. If I could be
free '

She paused with a shiver.

Freedom for her could only mean death for
her husband. To the sensitive conscience of
Vere it seemed like murder to wish for any
liberty or release that could only be purchased
at such a cost as that.

Jeanne de Sonnaz could calmly reckon up
and compare her chances of loss and gain if her
placid Paul should pass from the living world ;
but Vere could do nothing of the kind. Although
Sergius Zouroff outraged and insulted
her in many ways, and was a daily and hourly

horror to her, yet she remained loyal to him,
even in her thoughts.

I eat his bread, and wear his clothes, and
spend his gold she thought bitterly. ^ I owe
him at least fidelity such as his servants give
in exchange for food and shelter ! '

There were times when she was passionately
tempted to cast off everything that was his, and
go out, alone and unaided, and work for her
living, hidden in the obscurity of poverty, but
free at least from the horrible incubus of an
abhorred union. But the straight and simple
rectitude in which she had been reared, the
severe rendering of honour and of obligation in
which she had been trained, were with her, too
strongly engrained to let her be untrue to them.

I must bide the brent,' she told herself, in
the old homely words of the Border people ;
and her delicate face grew colder and prouder
every day. The iron was in her soul; the
knotted cords were about her waist ; but she
bore a brave countenance serenely. She could
not endure that her world should pity her.

Her world, indeed, never dreamed of doing

SO. Society does not pity a woman who is a
great lady, who is young, and who could have
lovers and courtiers by the crowd if only she
smiled once.

Society only thought her — unamiable.

True, she never said an unkind thing, or
did one ; she never hurt man or woman ; she
was generous to a fault, and, to aid even people
she despised, would give herself trouble unending.
But these are serious simple qualities
that do not show much, and are soon forgotten
by those who benefit from them. Had she
laughed more, danced more, taken more kindly
to the fools and their follies, she might have
been acid of tongue and niggard of sympathy :
society would have thought her much more
amiable than it did now.

Her charities were very large, and they
were charities often done in secresy to those of
her own rank, who came to her in the desperation
of their own needs, or their sons' or
their brothers' debts of honour ; but it would
have served her in better stead with the world
if she had stayed for the cotillons, or if she

had laughed heartily when Madame Judic
sang.

It would have been so much more natural.

If she would listen to me ! ' thought her
mother, in the superior wisdom of her popular
little life. ' If she would only kiss a few
women in the mornings and flirt with a few
men in the evening, it would set her all right
with them in a month. It is no use doing
good to anybody, they only hate you for it.
You have seen them in their straits; it is like
seeing them without their teeth or their wig ;
they never forgive it. But to be pleasant,
always to be pleasant, that is the thing ; and,
after all, it costs nothing.'

But to be pleasant in Lady Dolly's, and the
world's, meaning of the words was not possible
to Yere — Yere, with an aching heart, an outraged
pride, and a barren future ; Yere,
haughty, grave, and delicate of taste, to whom
the whole life she led seemed hardly better or
wiser than sitting out the glittering absurdities
of the Nimble d' Argent or Niche.

One warm day in December she had the

unusual enjoyment of beings alone from noon tonight.
All in the house were away at Monte
Carlo, and Madame Nelaguine had gone for
the day to San Nemo to see her Empress.
It was lovely weather, balmy and full of
fragrance, cold enough to make furs needful at
nightfall, but without wind, and with a brilliant
sun.

Vere wandered about the gardens till she was
tired ; then, her eyes lighting on her own felucca
moored with other pleasure-boats at the foot of
the garden-quay, she looked over the blue
tranquil sea, went down the stairs, and pushed
the little vessel off from shore. She had never
lost her childish skill at boating and sailing.
She set the little sail, tied the tiller-rope to her
foot, and, with one oar, sent herself quickly and
lightly through the still water. There was
nothing in sight ; the shore was as deserted as
the sea. It was only one o'clock, l^he orange-groves
and pine woods shed their sweet smell
for miles over the sea. She ceased to row, and
let the boat drift with the slight movement
of the buoyant air.

She was glad to be alone — absolutely alone ;
away from all the trifling interruptions which
are to some natures as mosquitoes to the flesh.

She passed a fishing-felucca, and asked the
fisherman in it if the weather would hold ; he
told her it would be fine like that till the new
year. She let the boat go on. The orangeries
and pine woods receded farther and farther, the
turrets of the villa grew smaller and smaller
in the distance.

Air and sea, space and solitude, were delightful
to her. Almost for the moment, going
through that sparkling water, she realised her
youth, and felt that twenty years were still not
on her head. As she lay back in the little vessel,
her shoulders resting on its silken cushions, the
oar being idle, her eyes gazing wistfully into
the depths of the azure sky, she did not see a
canoe that, lying ofiP the shore when she had
taken the water, had followed her at a little
distance.

Suddenly, with a quick, arrow-like dart, it
covered the space dividing it from her; and
came alongside of her boat.

Princesse said the voice of Correze, ' the
sea is kind to me, whether it be in north or
south. But are you quite wise to be so far out
on it all alone ? '

He saw the face, that never changed for all
the praise of princes or the homage of courts,
and always was so cold, grow warm and lighten
with surprise and welcome, wonder in the
great grave eyes, a smile on the proud mouth.

You ! ' she said simply.

He had had much flattery and much honour
in his life, but nothing that had ever seemed to
him so sweet, so great, as that one word, and
the accent of it.

I ! ' he said simply too, without compliment.
I am a stormy petrel, you know ; never at rest.
I could not help hovering near your lonely sail
in case of any sudden change of weather.
These waters are very treacherous.'

Are they ? ' said Vere without thinking.
She grew confused; she thought of the Wolfinea,
of the Kermesse, of her husband's invitation to
Svir, of his last words in the Spitalkirche ; of
many things all at once; and the gladness

with which she saw him startled her — it
seemed so strange to be so glad at anything !

The fisherman says this weather will last
till the new year,' she said, feeling that her
voice was not quite steady.

Correze had one hand on the side of her
boat.

The fisherman should know better than I,
certainly,' he answered. ^ But they are over-sanguine
sometimes ; and there is a white lookin
the south that I do not like, as if Africa
were sending us some squall. If I might
venture to advise you, I would say turn
your helm homeward. You are very far off
shore.'

You are as far.'

I followed you.'

Vere was silent; she spent the next few
moments in tacking and bringing the head of
her little vessel landward once more.

I thank you,' said Correze, as she obeyed
him.

She did not ask him why.

There is no tide, the clever people tell us,

VOL. III. F

in the Mediterranean,' he continued. ' But
there is something that feels very unpleasantly
like it sometimes, when a boat wants to go
against the wind. You see a breeze has sprung
up ; that white cloud yonder will be black before
very long.'

^ Are we really very far from the land ? '
'A mile or two. It will take some stiff"
rowing to get there.'

But the sun is so bright '

Ah yes. I have seen the sun brilliant one
moment, and the next the white squall was
down in a fury of whirling mist and darkened
air. Take your second oar.'

The wind began to stir, as he had foreseen,
the white in the south grew leaden-coloured,
the swell in the sea grew heavy. Vere took in
her sail, and the resistance of the water to the
oars grew strong for her hands.

With your permission,' said Correze ; and
he balanced himself on his canoe, tied its prow
to the stern of her boat, and leapt lightly into
her little vessel.

If it get rougher, that might have become

harder to do,' lie said apologetically ; ' and, in
the sea that we shall soon have, you will be
unable to both steer and row. Will you allow
me to take your oars ? '

She gave them to him in silence, and took
the tiller ropes into her hands.

She saw that he was right.

An angry wind had risen, shrill and chill.
The foam of the tideless sea was blowing
around them like white powder scattered by a
great fan. There was a raw, hard feeling in
the air, a moment before so sunny and laden
only with the scent of orange and firewood.
The sky was overcast, and some sea-birds were
screaming.

Neither he nor she spoke ; he bent with a
will to his oars, she steered straight for the
shore. The wind chopped and changed, and
came now from the west and now from the
mountains — either way it was against them.

He had taken a waterproof from his canoe
and put it about her. ' Never trust the sun
when you come seaward,' he said with a smile.
Without it, she would have been wet through

F 2

from the spray, for her gown was only of
ivory-white cashmere, and ill-fitted for rough
weather.

Correze rowed on in silence, pulling hard
against the heavy water.

Both thought of the morning on the sea in
Calvados ; and the memory was too present to
both for either to speak of it.

There is no real danger,' he said once, as
the boat was swept by the rush of white water.

I am not afraid ; do you think I am ? ' said
Vere with a momentary smile.

'No, I do not. Fear is not in your temper,'
said Correze. ' But most other women would
be ; the sea will soon stand up like a stonewall
between us and the land.'

Yes ? ' said Vere absently ; she was thinking
very little of the sea ; then she added, with
a sudden recollection, and a pang of self-reproach,
' I was very imprudent ; I am sorry ;
it is I who have brought you into this danger —
for danger I think there must be.'

Oh ! as for that ' said Correze, and he

laughed lightly. In his heart he thought, 'To

die with you — how sweet it would be ! How
right were the old poets ! '

Peril, to a degree, there was, because it
became very probable that the cockle-shell of a
pleasure-boat might heel over in the wind and
swell, and they might have to swim for their
lives ; and they were still a long way ofP the
land. But neither of them thought much of it.
I He was only conscious that she was near him,
I and she was wondering why such deep peace,
such sweet safety, always seemed to fall on her
in his presence.

The sea rose, as he had said, and looked like
a grey wall between them and the coast. Mists
and blowing surf obscured the outlines of the
land; but she held the head of the boat straight
against the battling waves, and he rowed with
the skill that he had learned of Venetians and
Basque sea-folk in sudden storms ; and, slowly
but safely, at the last they made their way
through the fog of foam, and whirling currents
of variously driving winds, and brought the
little vessel with the canoe rocking behind it,
up on to the landing-stairs that she had left in

the full flood of sunshine two hours before.
There was no rain, but the sky was very dark,
and the spray was being driven hither and
thither in showers.

Are you wet at all, Princesse ? ' he asked
as they landed.

She turned on the steps and held out her
hand.

You have saved my life,' she said in a low
voice. He bowed low over her hand, but did
not touch it with his lips.

I am happy,' he said briefly.

There was a crowd of servants and outdoor
men above on the head of the little
garden-quay, Loris leaping and shouting in
their midst, for all the household had discovered
its mistress's absence and the absence of the
boat, and had been greatly alarmed ; for if
her world disliked her, her servants adored
her, even while they were a little afraid of
her.

She is like no one else ; she is a saint,'
said the old Russian steward very often. ' But
if she be ever in wrath with you — ah, then it is

as if St. Dorothea struck you with her roses
and broke your back ! '

Even as they landed the clouds burst, the
rain began to fall in torrents, the sea leaped
madly against the sea wall of the gardens.

You will come in and wait at least till the
storm passes ? ' she said to Correze. He hesitated.


Into Prince Zouroff's house ! ' he said aloud,
with a shadow on his face.

Into my house,' she said with a shade of
rebuke in her tone.

You are too good, madame ; but, if you
will permit me, I will seem ungrateful and leave
you.'

The servants were standing around on the
strip of variegated marble pavement that
separated the sea-wall from the house. He
only uttered such words as they might hear.

Vere looked at him with a wistful look in
the haughty eyes that he would not see.

You have saved my life,' she said again ina
soft hushed voice.

'Nay, nay,' said Correze, 'you have too many

angels surely ever about your steps to need a
sorry mortal ! Princess — adieu.'

But you are staying near here ? '

A few days — a few hours. I am en route
from Milan to Paris. I like Paris best when I
am not on an Alp. Life should be tout ou rien.
Either the boulevard or the hermitage.'

He did not tell her that he had come by the
Riviera for sake of seeing the turrets of her
home above the sea, for sake of the chance of
beholding her walk by him m the sun upon the
terrace above.

Will you not wait and see — my husband ? '
she said a little abruptly, with a certain effort.

I have not the honour to know Prince
Zouroff.'

He will wish to thank you ' the words

seemed to choke her; she could not finish
them.

Correze bowed with his charming grace.

Prince sse ! When shall I persuade you
that I have done nothing for which to be
thanked ! If I may venture to remind you of
30 prosaic a thing, your dress must be damp.

and mine is wet through. I beseech you to
change yours at once.'

Ah ! how thoughtless I am ! But if you
will not come in, will you accept a carriage ora
horse P '

Thanks, no ; a quick walk will do me far
more good. If you will give the canoe shelter
I shall be very indebted ; but for myself the
shore in this wind is what will please me most.
It will make me think of the old tourmentes of
my home mountains. Princesse, once more —
adieu.'

She gave him her hand ; he bent over it ; a
mist came before her eyes that was not from
the driving of the sea spray. When it cleared
from her eyelids, Correze was gone.

'If I had entered the house with her I
could not have answered for my silence. It
was best to come away whilst I could,' he
thought, as he went on along the Cornice, with
the winds and the rains beating him back at
each step, and, below him and beyond, the sea
a mass of white and grey steam and froth.

When Prince Zouroff returned from Monte

Carlo, he brought several guests with him to
dinner. He had won largely, as very rich men
often do ; lie was in a good humour because he
had been well amused; and he had been
driven home by his orders at so terrific a pace
in the storm that one horse had dropped dead
when it reached the stables. But this was nota
very uncommon occurrence with him ; a
carriage-horse did not matter ; if it had been
one of his racers it would have been a different
business. That was all he said about it.

Vere went up to him after dinner and took
him aside one moment.

I was on the sea in the beginning of the
storm.'

What were you doing ? '

Rowing myself — all alone.'

A mad freak ! But nothing happened.
All is well that ends well.'

Yes.' Vere's teeth were shut a little as
she spoke, and her lips were pale. ' It might
not have ended so well — if it be well to live —
had it not been for M. de Correze. He was
in a canoe and warned me in time.'

The singer ? '

M. de Correze.'

Well, there is only one ; you mean the
singer ? How came he near you ? '

I do not know.'

And what did he do ? '

He saved my life.'

Sergius Zouroff looked wearied.

You are always so emotional, ma cohere.
Do you mean he did anything I ought to acknowledge
? Where is he to be found ? '

I do not know.'

Oh, I can hear at the Cercle. But are
you not talking in hyperboles ? '

I told you the fact. I thought you ought
to know it.'

'Ah, yes,' said her husband, who was
thinking of other things. ' But he did not
come to sing at Svir. I cannot forgive that.
However, I will send my card, and then you
can ask him to dinner. Or send him a diamond
ring — artists always like rings.'

Vere turned away.

'I remember hearing once,' said Lady

Dorothy, approaching him, ' that Correze had
one thousand three hundred and seventy-six
diamond rings, all given him by an adoring
universe. You must think of something more
original, Sergius.'

'Ask him to dinner,' said Prince Zouroff.
People do ; though it is very absurd.'

Then he went to the card-room for ecarte,
thinking no more of his v^ife than he thought
of his dead horse.

Correze and the sea seem quite inseparable
quite like Leander,' said Lady Dolly, who
had heard the whole story before dinner from
her maid, when she too had returned from
Monte Carlo. But she said it half under her
breath, and did not dare speak of it to her
daughter ; she was haunted by that memory of
the letter she had received from Moscow, the
letter of Correze that she had burned and left
unanswered.

It is odd he should have been in that canoe
just to-day, when we were all away,' she
thought with the penetration of a woman who
knew her world, and did not believe in accidents,

as she had once said to her child. ^ And to say
she does not know where he is — that is really
too ridiculous. I am quite sure Yere never
swill do anything — anything — to make people
talk, but I should not be in the least surprised
if she were to insist on something obstinate and
romantic about this man. She is so very
emotional. Zourofif is right, she is always in
the clouds. That comes of being brought upon
those moors by that German, and Correze is
precisely the person to answer these fancies —
even in daylight at a concert he is so handsome,
and even in dinner-dress he always looks like
Romeo. It would really be too funny if she
ever did get talked about — so cold, and so
reserved, and so quite too dreadfully and
awfully good as she is ! '

And Lady Dolly looked down the drawing-rooms
at her daughter in the distance, as
Vere drew her white robes slowly through
her salons ; and she thought, after all, one
never knew

The next day Zouroff's secretary sent his
master's card to the hotel where he learned

78 MOTHS.

that Correze was staying, and sent also an
invitation to dinner at an early date. Correze
sent this card in return, and a refusal of the
invitation, based on the plea that he was
leaving Nice.

When he had written his refusal, Correze
walked out into the street. He met pointblank
a victoria with very gaudy liveries, and,
in the victoria, muffled in sables, sat a dark-skinned,
ruby-lipped woman.

The brilliant and insouciant face of Correze
grew dark, and he frowned.

The woman was Casse-une-Croute.

The brute,' he muttered. ' If I sat at his
table I should be choked — or I should choke
him.'

As he went on he heard the gay people in
the street laughing, and saw them look after
the gaudy liveries and the quadroon.

'His wife is much more beautiful, and as
white as a lily,' one man said. 'That black
thing throws glasses and knives at him sometimes,
they say.'

I protected her from Noisette. I cannot

protect her here,' thought Correze. ' Perhaps
she will not know it ; God send her ignorance.'

The talk of Nice was Casse-mie-Croute,
who had arrived but a week or so before. She
had a villa in the town, she had her carriage
and horses from Paris, she spent about sixty
napoleons a day, without counting what she
lost at Monte Carlo ; the city preferred her
to any English peeress or German princess
of them all. When the correspondents of
journals of society sent their budgets from
Nice and Monaco, they spoke first of all of
Casse-une-Croute — the Princess Zouroff came
far afterwards with other great ladies in their
chronicles.

When Casse-une-Croute after supper set
fire to Prince Zouroff's beard, and shot away
her chandelier with a saloon pistol, her feats
were admiringly recorded in type. Vere did
not read those papers, so she knew nothing ;
and the ignorance Correze prayed for her
remained with her ; she did not even know
that Casse-une-Croute was near her.

A little later in that day Correze met

Lady Dolly at Monte Carlo. She greeted him
with effusion; he was courteous, but a little
cold. She felt it, but she would not notice it.

So you saved my Vere's life yesterday,
Correze ? ' she said with charming cordiality.
So like you ! Always in some lean role ! '

It would be a head role, indeed, to have
saved the Princess Zouroff from any danger;
but it is not for me. I warned her of the
change in the weather ; that was all.'

You are too modest. True courage always
is. I think you rowed her boat home for her,
didn't you?'

Part of the way — yes. The sea was heavy.'

She quite thinks you saved her life,' said
Lady Dolly. ' My sweet Vera is always a little
exalted, you know; you can see that if you look
at her. One always rather expects to hear her
speak in blank verse ; don't you know what I
mean ? '

'Madame, I have heard so much blank
verse in my life that I should as soon expect
frogs to drop from her lips,' answered Correze
a little irritably. ' No ; I do not think I

MOTHS. 81

know what you mean, the Princess Vera seems
to me to play a very difficult part in the
world's play with an exquisite serenity, patience,
and good taste.'

A difficult part ! Goodness ! My dear
Correze, she has only to look beautiful, go to
courts, and spend money ! '

And forgive infidelity, and bear with outrage.'


His voice was low, but it was grave and
even stern, as his face was.

Lady Dolly, who was going up towards the
great Palace of Play, stopped, stared, and put
up a scarlet sunshade, which made her look as
if she blushed.

My dear Correze ! I suppose people of
genius are privileged, but otherwise — really —
you have said such an extraordinary thing I
ought not to answer you. The idea of judging
between married people ! The idea of supposing
that Prince Zouroff is not everything he ought
to be to his wife '

Correze turned his clear lustrous eyes full
on her.

VOL. III. G

Miladi,' lie said curtly, 'I wrote you some
truths of Prince Zouroff from Moscow long
ago. Did you read them ? '

Oh — stories ! mere stories ! ' said Lady
Dolly vaguely and nervously, ' you know I
never listen to rumours ; people are so horridly
uncharitable.'

You had my letter from Moscow then ? '

Oh yes, and answered it,' said Lady Dolly
with aplomb.

I think you forgot to answer it,' said
Correze quietly ; ' your answer was a faire part
to the marriage.'

I am sure I answered it,' said Lady Dolly
once more, looking up into the scarlet dome of
her umbrella.

I told you and proved to you that the man
to whom you wished to sacrifice your child was
a mass of vice ; of such vice as it is the fashion
to pretend to believe shut up between the pages
of Suetonius and Livy. And I offered, if you
would give me your young daughter, to settle a
million of francs upon her and leave the stage
for her sake. Your answer was the faire part
of the Zouroff marriage

I answered you said Lady Dolly obstinately,
' oh dear yes, I did. I can't help it
if you didn't get it; and I had told you at
Trouville it was no use, that idea of yours ; you
never were meant to marry — so absurd ! — you
are far too charming ; and, besides, you know
you are an artist ; you can't say you are not.'

I am an artist,' said Correze, with a flash

sombre and brilliant in his eyes that she could

not front, ' but I have never been a beast, and

had I wedded your daughter I would not have

been an adulterer.'

Hus-sash ! ' said Lady Dolly, scandalised.
Such language was terrible to her, though she
did laugh at the Petit Due and Niche.
Hus-sash, hush — ]pray I '

But Correze had bowed and had left her.
Lady Dolly went on between the cactus and
the palms and the myrtles looking dreamily up
into the scarlet glow of her sunshade, and
thinking that when you let artists and people
of that sort into your world they were quite
certain to grosser you sooner or later. ' And I
am sure he is in love with her still,' she thought

G 2

as she joined some pleasant people and went upto
the great building to hear the music, only
for that ; the music at Monte Carlo is always
so good.

/ As if I would ever have given my child to
a singer ! ' she thought in the disgust of mingled
virtue and pride.

At the entrance of the hall she met her son-in-law,
who was coming out, having won
largely.

I forgot m}' purse, Sergius ; lend me the
sinews of war,' said Lady Dolly with a laugh.

He handed her some rouleaux,

Some one would plunder me before I got
through the gardens,' he said to himself as he
sauntered on, 'it may as well be Dolly as
another.'

Lady Dolly went on and staked her gold.
At the same table with her were Aimed Pincee
of the Hippodrome, and Casse-une-Croute ; but
Lady Dolly was not hurt by that either in pride
or virtue.

The real Commune is Monte Carlo.

Meanwhile Correze did not approach Vere,

I

If you ever need a servant or an avenger
call me,' lie had said to lier, but he had known
that she never would call him. From afar off
he had kept watch on her life, but that was all.

She knew that he was near her, and the
knowledge changed the current of her days
from a joyless routine to a sweet yet bitter
unrest. When the sun rose she thought,
shall I see him ? ' When it set she thought,
will he come tomorrow ? ' The expectation
gave a flush of colour and hope to her life which
with all its outward magnificence was chill and
pale as the life of a pauper because its youth
was crushed under the burden of a loveless
splendour.

For the first time this warm winter of the
southern seaboard, with its languid air, its
dancing sunbeams, its odours of roses and
violets and orange-buds seemed lovely to her.
She did not reason ; she did not reflect ; she
only vaguely felt that the earth had grown
beautiful.

Once while the air was still dark with the
shadows of night, but the sky had the red of

the dawn, she, lying wide awake upon her bed,
heard a voice upon the sea beneath her windows
singing the Stella virgin, madre pectore ! of the j
Italian fishermen, and knew that the voice was
his.

At that hour Sergius Zouroff was drinking
brandy in the rooms of Casse-une-Croute, while
the quadroon was shooting the glass drops off
her chandelier.

One day she went to see the village priest
about some poor of the place, and sought him
at the church of the parish. It was a little
whitewashed barn, no more, but it had thickets
of roses about it and a belt of striped aloes, and
two tall palms rose straight above it, and
beyond its narrow door there shone the sea.
She went towards the little sacristy to speak
to the priest. Madame Nelaguine was with
her. They met Correze on the threshold. Mass
was just over. It was the day of St. Lucy.

Have you been to mass at our church and
do not visit us?' cried Princess Nadine in
reproach as she saw him ; ' that is not kind,
monsieur, especially when we have so much

for wliicli to thank you; my brother would
be very glad of an occasion to speak his
gratitude.'

Prince Zouroff owes me none, madame
said Correze. Vere had been silent. ' Is the
little church yours ? ' he continued. ' It is
charming. It is almost as primitive as St.
Augustine or St. Jerome could wish it to be,
and it is fall of the smell of the sea and the
scent of the roses.

It is the church of our parish,' said Madame
Nelaguine; 'we have our own chapel in the
villa for our own priest, of course. Were
you not coming to us? No? You are too
farouche. Even to persons of your fame one
cannot allow such wilful isolation; and why
come to this very gay seaboard if you want to
be alone ? '

'I came by way of going to Paris from
Milan ; indeed, in Paris I must be in a very
few days ; I have to see half a score of directors
there. Which of the three seas that you honour
with residence do you prefer, mesdames ? '

Why does Yere not speak to him, and why

does he not look at her ? ' thought the Princess
Nelaguine, as she answered aloud :

Myself, I infinitely prefer the Mediterranean,
but Vere persists in preferring the narrow
colourless strip of the northern channel ; it is
not like her usual good taste.'

'The climate of Calvados is most like that
which the Princess knew in her childhood,'
Correze said with a little haste ; ' childhood
goes with us like an echo always, a refrain to
the ballad of our life. One always wants one's
cradle-air. Were I to meet with such an
accident as Roger did I would go to a goat-hut
on my own Alps above Sion.'

'You would? how charming that would befor
the goats and their sennerins ! ' said Madame
N^elaguine as she caught a glimpse of the priest's
black soutane behind the roses and chased it
through the hedge of aloes and caught the goodman,
who was very shy of this keen, quick,
sardonic Russian lady

might have been dead in those seas the
other day — for me,' said Vere, in a low voice
without looking at him as they stood alone.

Ah ! nothing so beautiful is in store forme,
Princesse,' he answered lightly ; ' indeed,
you overrate my services ; without me no doubt
you would have brought your boat in very well ;
you are an accomplished sailor.'

I should have stayed out without noticing
the storm,' said Vere, ' and then — Loris
would have been sorry, perhaps.'

Correze was silent.

He would not let his tongue utter the
answer that rose to his lips.

We are too afraid of death,' he said ; ' that
fear is the shame of Christianity.'

I do not fear it,' said Yere in a low tone ;
her eyes gazed through the screen of roses to
the sea.

And you have not twenty years on your
head yet ! ' said Correze bitterly, ' and life should
be to you one cloudless spring morning only full
of blossom and of promise '

I have what I deserve, no doubt.'

You have nothing that you deserve.'

Madame Nelaguine came back to them with
the priest.

Why did you not come to Svir ? ' she asked
of CoiTeze, as the curate made his obeisance to
Yere.

I had not the honour to know your brother.'

No ; but I believe '

He offered to pay me ? Oh yes. He was
dans son droit in doing that ; but I too had my
rights, and amongst them was the right to
refuse, and I took it. No doubt he did not
know that I never take payments out of the
opera-house.'

I see ! you are cruelly proud.'

Am I proud ? Perhaps, I have my own
idea of dignity, a "poor thing, but my own."
When I go into society I like to be free, and
so I do not take money from it. Many greater
artists than I, no doubt, have thought differently.
But it is my fancy.'

But other artists have not been Marquises
de Correze,' said Madame Nelaguine.

Nay, I have no title, Madame,' said Correze ;
it was buried in another generation under the
snows above Sion, and I have never dug it up :
why should I ? '

'Why should you, indeed? There is but
one Correze, there are four thousand marquises
to jostle each other in their struggles for
precedence.'

He laughed a little as he bowed to her.
« Yes, I am Correze tout court ; I like to think
that one word tells its own tale all over the
world to the nations. No doubt this is only
another shape of vanity, and not dignity at all.
One never knows oneself. I do not care to setup
my old couronne, it would be out of place in
the theatres. But I like to think that I have
it, and if ever I need to cross swords with a
noble, he cannot refuse on the score of my
birth.'

His face grew darker as he spoke, he pulled
the roses one from another with an impatient
action; the quick marmoset eyes of Madame
Nelaguine saw that he was thinking of some
personal foe.

I suppose you have had duels before now ? '
she said indifferently.

No,' answered Correze. ' No man ever
insulted me yet, and I think no man ever will.

I do not like brawling ; it is a sort of weakness
with my fraternity, who are an irritable genus.
I have always contrived to live in amity. But
there are offences for which there is no
punishment except the old one of blood.'

He was thinking of what he had seen that
night ; Sergius Zouroff against the shoulder of
Casse-une-Croute playing at the roulette table
whilst his wife was left alone. Madame
Nelaguine looked at him narrowly ; Vere was
standing a little apart listening to the good
priest's rambling words.

M. le Marquis,' she said with a little smile,
you are very well known to be the gentlest and
sunniest of mortals, as well as the sweetest
singer that ever lived. But — do you know — I
think you could be very terrible if you were
very angry. I think it is quite as well that
you do not fight duels.'

I may fight them yet,' said Correze, ' and
do not give me that title, madame, or I shall
think you laugh at me. I am only Correze ! '

Only ! " I am Arthur, said the King ! "
Will you not be merciful in your greatness — and

I

come and sing to us as a friend here, though
you would not come as a guest to Svir ? '

Correze was silent.

Do come to-night, you would make me so
proud ; we have a few people,' urged the Princess
Nadine ; 'and you know,' she added, That tome
your art is a religion.'

You make it difficult indeed to refuse,' said
Correze, ' but I have not the honour to know
Prince ZourofF.'

With what an accent he says that honour ! '
thought the sister of ZourofF, but she said
aloud : ' That is my brother's misfortune, not
his fault. Vere, ask this Roi Soleil to shine on
our house ? He is obstinate to me. Perhaps
he will not be so to you.'

Vere did not lift her eyes, her face flushed a
little as she turned towards him.

We should be happy if you would break
your rule — for us.'

She spoke with effort ; she could not forget
what he had said on his knees before her
in the little church at Old Aussee. Correze
bowed.

I will come for an hour, mes princesses, and
I will sing for you both.'

Then he made his adieu and went away.

Vere and her sister-in-law returned to the
house. Madame Nelaguine was unusually
grave.

When they went home, they found the
newspapers of the day; the lightest and
wittiest of them contained a florid account of
the rescue from a sea-storm of a Russian
Princess by Correze. Without a name the
Russian Princess was so described, that all her
world could know beyond doubt who it was.

Really position is a pillory nowadays,'
said Madame Nelaguine angrily ; ' sometimes
they pelt one with rose-leaves, and sometimes
with rotten eggs, but one is for ever in the
pillory ! '

When Sergius Zouroff read it he was very

enraged.

Patience ! ' said his sister drily, when his
wife was out of hearing, 'In tomorrow's
number I daresay they will describe you and
the quadroon.'

Then she added, ' Correze will come here
this evening* : he will come to sing for me ;
you must not offer him anything, not even a
ring, or you will insult him.'

Pshaw ! ' said Zouroff roughly. ' Why do
you not get others to sing for you whom you
can pay properly like artists ? There are many.'

Many singers like Correze ? I am afraid
not. But I induced him to come, not only for
his singing, but because when he has saved
your wife's life, it is as well you should look
thankful, even if you do not feel so.'

You grow as romantic as she is, in your
old age, Nadine,' said Zouroff, with a shrug of
his shoulders.

In old age, perhaps, one appreciates many
things that one overlooks in one's youth,' said
the Princess unruffled, and with a little sigh.
Twenty years ago I should not have appreciated
your wife perhaps much more than — you do.'

Do you find her amusing ? ' he said with
a little laugh and a yawn.

Later in that day Vere drove out alone.
Madame Nelaguine was otherwise occupied and

her mother was away spending a day or two
with a friend who had a villa at la Condamine.
She had never once driven down the
Promenade des Anglais since she had been on
the Riviera this year, but this day her coachman
took his way along that famous road
because the house to which she was going, a
house taken by Vlademir Zouroff, and at which
his wife, a pretty Galician woman, lay ill, could
not so quickly or so easily be reached any
other way. She drove alone, her only companion
Loris stretched on the opposite cushions,
beside a basket of violets and white lilacs which
she was taking to Sophie Zouroff. The afternoon
was brilliant ; the snow-white palaces, the
green gardens, and the azure sea sparkled in
the sunlight; the black Orloffs flew over the
ground tossing their silver head-pieces and
flashing their fiery eyes; people looked after
them and told one another that is the
Princess Vera : look, that is the great Russian's
wife.'

Vere leaning back with Loris at her
feet, had a white covering of polar bear-skins

cast over her; she had on her the black
sables which had been in her marriage
corneille', the black and white in their strong
contrast enhanced and heightened the beauty
of her face and the fairness of her hair ; she
held on her lap a great cluster of lilies of
the valley.

That beautiful pale woman is Prince
Zouroff 's wife : he must have strange taste
to leave her for a negress said one man to
another, as she passed.

There were many carriages out that day as
usual before sunset ; the black Russian horses
dashed through the crowd at their usual headlong
gallop, tossing their unlocked manes and
tails in restless pride. Close against them
passed two bays at full trot ; the bays were ina
victoria; in the victoria was a woman,
swarthy and lustrous-eyed, who wore a Russian
kaftan, and had black Russian sables thrown
about her shoulders ; she was smoking ; she
blew some smoke in the air and grinned from
ear to ear as she went past the Zouroff carriage ;

VOL. III. H

in her own carriage, lying back in it, was Sergius
ZourofF.

A slight flush, that went over Vere's face to
her temples and then faded to leave her white
as new fallen snow, was the only sign she gave
that she had recognised her husband with the
quadroon who was called Casse-une-Croute.
Another moment, and the black Orloffs, flying
onward in a cloud of dust and flood of sunlight,
had left the bays behind them. Vere bent her
face over the lilies of the valley.

Half a mile further she checked their flight,
and told the coachman to return home by
another road instead of going onward to Sophie
Zourofi^'s.

When she reached the villa it was twilight
the short twilight of a winter day on
the Mediterranean. She went up to her bedchamber,
took off her sables, and with her own
hands wrapped them altogether, rang for her
maid, and gave the furs to her.

When the Prince comes in take these to
him,' she said, in a calm voice ; ' tell him I have
no farther use for them ; he may have some.'

The woman, who was faithful to her, and

knew much of the patience with which she
bore her life, looked grave as she took them ;
she guessed what had happened.

It was six o'clock.

The Princess Nadine came for a cup of
yellow tea in Vere's dressing-room. She found
her gentle and serious as usual ; as usual a
good listener to the babble of pleasant cynicism
and philosophic commentaries with which
Madame Nelaguine always was ready to garnish
and enliven the news of the hour.

Madame Nelaguine did not notice anything
amiss.

An hour later, when Zouroff came home to
dress for dinner, the waiting-woman, who loved
her mistress and was very loyal to her, took
him the sables and the message.

He stared, but said nothing. He understood.


The Prince of Monaco and other Princes
dined at the Zouroff villa that evening. There
was a dinner party of forty people in all. He
did not see his wife until the dinner hour,
Vere was pale with the extreme pallor that had

come on her face at sight of the quadroon ;
she wore white velvet and had a knot of white
lilac at her breast, and her only ornaments
were some great pearls given her by the
Herbertss on her marriage.

He stooped towards her a moment under
pretext of raising a handkerchief she had
dropped.

Madame,' he said in a harsh whisper, ' I do
not like couijs de theatre, and with my actions
you have nothing to do. You will wear your
sables and drive on the Promenade des Anglais
tomorrow. Do you hear ? ' he added, as she
remained silent. Then she looked at him.

I hear ; but I shall not do it.'

'You will not doit?'

'No.'

Their guests entered. Vere received them
with her usual cold and harmonious grace.

Really she is a grand creature,' thought
Zouroff, with unwilling respect, ' but I will
break her will ; I never thought she had any
until this year; now she is stubborn as a
mule.'

The long dinner went on its course, and
was followed by an animated evening. Madame
Nelaguine had always made the Zouroff entertainments
more brilliant than most, from their
surprises, their vivacity, and their entrain, and
this was no exception to the rest.

That Prince Zouroff himself was gloomy
made no cause for remark; he never put any curb
on his temper either for society or in private life,
and the world was used to his fits of moroseness.
'The Tsar sulks' his sister would always says,
with a laugh, of him ; and so covered his ill-humour
with a jest. This night she did not
jest : her fine instincts told her that there was
a storm in the air.

About eleven o'clock everyone was in the
white drawing-room, called so because it was
hung with white silk, and had white china
mirrors and chandeliers. Two clever musicians,
violinist and pianist, had executed some pieces of
Liszt and Schumann ; they were gone, and two
actors from the Folies Dramatists had glided
in as Louis XIII. personages, played a witty
little revue, written for the society of the hour,

and had in turn vanished. Throughout the
long white room — in which the only colour
allowed came from banks and pyramids of
rose-hued azaleas — there was on every side
arising that animated babel of polite tongues
which tells a hostess that her people are well
amused with her and with themselves, and
that the spectre of ennui is scornfully exorcised.


Suddenly the doors opened, and the servants
announced Correze.

Quel bonheur ! ' cried Madame Nelaguine ;
and muttered to her brother, ' Say something
cordial and graceful, Sergius ; you can when
you like.'

Correze was bending low before the mistress
of the house ; for the first time he saw the
moth and the star at her throat.

Present me to M. de Correze, Vera,' said
her husband, and she did so.

I owe you much, and I am happy to be
able in my own house to beg you to believe in
my gratitude, and to command it when you
will,' said Zouroff, with courtesy and the

admirable manner which he could assume with
suavity and dignity when he chose.

I was more otherwise than a fisherman,
monsieur; that is all the credit I can claim,'
said Correze, lightly and coldly : everyone had
ceased their conversation, men had lost their
interest in women's eyes, the very princes present
grew eager, and were thrown into the
shade. Correze had come. Correze, with the
light on his poetic face, his grace of attitude,
his sweet, far-reaching voice, his past of conquest,
his present of victory, his halo of fame,
his sorcery of indifference.

Correze stood by the side of his hostess, and
there was a gleam of challenge in his eyes,
usually so dreamy, this night so luminous ; he
was as pale as she.

I came to sing some songs to mesdames,
your sister, and your wife,' said Correze, a little
abruptly to Zouroff. 'Is that your piano?
You will permit me ? '

He moved to it quickly.

'He knows why he is asked to come,'
thought Zouroff, 'but he speaks oddly; one

would think he were the prince and I the
artist ! '

He is a rarer sort of prince than you,'
murmured Madame Nelaguine, who guessed
his thoughts. ' Do not touch him rudely, or
the nightingale will take wing.'

Correze struck one loud chord on the notes,
and through the long white room there came a
perfect silence.

Not thrice in twelve months was he ever
heard out of his own opera-houses.

He paused with his hands on the keys ; he
looked down the drawing-room, all he saw of
all that was around him were a sea of light, a
bloom of rose-red flowers, a woman's figure in
white velvet, holding a white fan of ostrich
feathers in her hand, and with a knot of white
lilac at her breast. He closed his eyelids
rapidly one instant as a man does who is
dazzled by flame or blinded with a mist of
tears ; then he looked steadily down the white
room and sang a Noel of Felicity David's.

Never in all his nights of triumph had he
sung more superbly. He was still young, and

his voice was in its perfection. He could do
what he chose with it, and he chose to-night to
hold that little crowd of tired great people
hanging on his lips as though they were sheep
that hearkened to Orpheus.

He chose to show her husband and her
world what spell he could use, what power he
could wield ; a charm that their riches could
not purchase, a sorcery their rank could not
command. He was in the mood to sing, and
he sang, as generously as in his childhood he
had warbled his wood-notes wild to the winds
of the mountains ; as superbly, and with as
exquisite a mastery and science as he had ever
sung with to the crowded theatres of the great
nations of the world.

The careless and fashionable crowd listened,
and was electrified into emotion. It could not
resist ; men were dumb and women heard with
glistening eyes and aching hearts ; Sergius
Zouroff, for whom music rarely had any charm,
as he heard that grand voice rise on the
stillness, clear as a clarion that calls to war,
and then sink and fall to a sweetness of

scarcely mortal sound, owned its influence,
and as he sat with his head downward,
and his heavy eyelids closed, felt dully and
vaguely that he was vile, and Deity perchance
not all a fable; and shuddered a little, and
felt his soul shrink before the singer's as SauFs
in its madness before David.

When Correze paused all were silent. To
give him compliment or gratitude would have
seemed almost as unworthy an insult as to
give him gold.

Vere had not moved ; she stood before the
bank of azaleas quite motionless; she might
have been of marble for any sign she gave.

Correze was silent ; there was no sound
in the white room except the murmur of
the waves without against the sea-wall of the
house.

Suddenly he looked up, and the brilliant
flash of his gaze met Sergius Zouroff's clouded
and sullen eyes.

I will sing once more,' said Correze, who
had risen ; and he sat down again to the piano.
I will sing once more, since you are not

weary of me. I will sing you something that
you never heard.'

His hands strayed over the chords in that
improvisation of music which comes to the
great singer as the sudden sonnet to the poet,
as the burst of wrath to the orator. Correze
was no mere interpreter of other men's
melody ; he had melody in his brain, in his
hands, in his soul.

He drew a strange pathetic music from the
keys ; a music sad as death, yet with a ring of
defiance in it, such defiance as had looked
from his eyes when he had entered, and had
stood by the side of the wife of Zouroff.

He sang La Coupe of Sully Prudhomme ; the
Coupe door that he had quoted on the sands by
the North Sea at Screening.

Dans les verres pais du cabaret brutal,

Le vin bleu coule a flots, et sans tr^ve ^ la ronde.

Dans le calice fin plus rarement abode,

Un vin dont la charts soit digne du cristal.

Enfin, la coupe door du haut d'un pedestal
Attend, vide tou jours, bien que large et profonde,
Un cru dont la noblesse ^ la sienne reporte :
On tremble dien souiller Ouvrage et le metal.'

He sang it to music of his own, eloquent,
weird, almost terrible ; music that seemed to
search the soul as the rays of a lamp probe
dark places.

The person he looked at while he sang was
Sergius Zouroff.

Les verres pais du cabaret brutal !

The words rang down the silence that was
around him with a scorn that was immeasurable,
with a rebuke that was majestic.

Sergius Zouroff listened humbly as if held
under a spell, his eyes could not detach their
gaze from the burning scorn of the singer.

Les verres ejpais du cabaret brutal I

The line was thundered through the stillness
with a challenge and a meaning that none who
heard it could doubt, with a passion of scorn
that cut like a scourge and spared not.

Then his voice dropped low, and with the
tenderness of an unutterable yearning recited
the verse he had not spoken by the sea.

Plus le vase est grossier de forme et de satire,
Mieux il trouve a combler sa contenance entitle,
Aux plus beaux seulement il n'est point de liqueur.'

There was once more a great silence. Vere
still stood quite motionless.

Sergius Zouroff leaned against the whitewall
with his head stooped and his eyes sullen
and dull, with an unwilling shame.

Correze rose and closed the piano.

I came to sing ; I have sung ; j^ou will
allow me to leave you now, for I must go away
by daybreak to Paris.'

And though many tried to keep him, none
could do so, and he went.

Vere gave him her hand as he passed out of
the white drawing-room.

I thank you,' she said very low.

The jDarty broke up rapidly ; there was a
certain embarrassment and apprehension left on
all the guests ; there was not one there who
had not understood the public rebuke given to
Sergius Zouroff".

He had understood it no less.

But for his pride's sake, which would not
let him own he felt the disgrace of it, he would
have struck the lips of the singer dumb. When
the white room was empty, he paced to and fro

with quick, uneven steps. His face was livid,
his eyes were savage, his breath came and went
rapidly and heavily; for the first time in all
his years a man had rebuked him.

You asked him here to insult me ? ' he
cried, pausing suddenly before his wife. She
looked him full in the face.

No. There would be no insult in a poem
unless your conscience made it seem one.'

She waited a moment for his answer, but he
was silent ; he only stared at her with a stifled,
bitter oath ; she made a slight curtsey to
him, and left his presence without another
word.

You should honour his courage, Sergius,'
said Madame Nelaguine, who remained beside
him ; ' you must admit it was very courageous.'

A terrible oath was his answer.

Courageous ! ' he said savagely at last.
Courageous ? The man knows well enough
that it is impossible for me to resent a mere
song ; I should be ridiculous, farceur, and he
knows that I cannot fight him — he is a stage-singer
'

He thinks himself your equal,' she
answered quietly ; ' but probably your wife is
right, it is only your conscience makes you
see an insult in a poem.'

My conscience ! ' — Sergius Zouroff laughed
aloud ; then he said suddenly, ' Is he Vera's
lover ? '

You are a fool,' said the Princesse Nadine
with tranquil scorn. ' Your wife has never had
any lover, and I think never will have one.
And what lover would rebuke you Lovers
are like husbands — they condone.'

If he be not her lover why should he
care ? '

Madame Nelaguine shrugged her shoulders.

'My dear Sergius, people are different.
Some feel angry at things that do not in the
least concern them, and go out of their way to
redress wrongs that have nothing to do with
them ; they are the exalted members of the
world. Correze is one of them. Have you
not said he is an artist ? Now, I am no artist,
and never am exalted, and yet I also do not like
to see the golden cup cast aside for the cabaret
brutal. Good night.'

Then she too left him.

The next day Madame Nelaguine went upto
her sister-in-law on the sea-terrace of the
house. Vere was sitting by the statue of the
wingless Love ; she had a book in her hand,
but she was not reading, her face was very
calm, but there was a sleepless look in her eyes.
The Princesse Nadine, who never in her life had
known any mental or physical fear, felt afraid
of her ; she addressed her a little nervously.

Have you slept well, love ? '

Not at all,' said Vere, who did not speak
falsely in little things or large.

Ah ! ' sighed Madame Nelaguine, and
added wistfully, ' Vera, I want to ask you to be
still patient, to do nothing in haste; in a word,
to forgive still if you can. My dear, I am so
pained, so shocked, so ashamed of all the insults
my brother offers you, but he has had a lesson
very grandly given, — it may profit him, it may
not ; but in any way. Vera, as a woman of the
world who yet can love you, my love, I want to
entreat you for all our sakes, and your own
above all, not to separate yourself from my
brother.'

Vere, who had her eyes fixed on the distant
snows of the mountains of Esterelle, turned and
looked at her with a surprise and with something
of rebuke.

You mean ? — I do not think I understand
you.'

I mean,' murmured her sister-in-law almost
nervously, ' do not seek for a divorce.'

^ A divorce ! '

Vere echoed the words in a sort of scorn.

You do not know me much yet,' she said
calmly. ' The woman who can wish for a
divorce and drag her wrongs into public — such
wrongs ! — is already a wanton herself; at least
I think so.'

Madame Nelaguine breathed a little quickly
with relief, yet with a new apprehension.

You are beyond me, Vera, and in your own
way you are terribly stern.'

What do you wish me to be ? ' said Vere
tranquilly. ' If I were of softer mould 1 should
make your brother's name the shame of Europe.
Be grateful to my coldness ; it is his only
shield.'

VOL, III. I

But you suffer '

That is nothing* to anyone. When I
married Prince Zouroff I knew very well that I
should suffer always. It is not his fault ; he
cannot change his nature.'

His sister stood beside her and pulled the
yellow tea-roses absently.

You are altogether beyond me,' she said
hurriedly, ' and yet you are not a forgiving
woman, Yera ? '

Forgiveness is a very vague word ; it is
used with very little thought. No, I do not
forgive, certainly. But I do not avenge myself
by giving my name to the mob, and telling the
whole world things that I blush even to know ! '

then you would never separate yourself
from Sergius ? '

I may leave his roof if he try me too far,
I have thought of it ; but I will never ask the
law to set me free from him. What could the
law do for me ? It cannot undo what is done.
A woman who divorces her husband is a prostitute
legalised by a form ; that is all.'

You think fidelity due to the faithless ? '

I think fidelity is the only form of chastity
left to a woman-who is a wife ; the man's vices
cannot affect the question. I abhor your
brother, I could strike him as a brave man
strikes a coward, but I have taken an oath to
him and I will be true to it. What has the law
to do with one's own honour? '

It is happy for him that you have such
unusual feeling,' said Madame Nelaguine with
a little acrimony, because she herself had been
far from guiltless as a wife. ' But your knight ?
your defender? your hero with the golden
nightingale in his throat, are you as cold to
him ? Did you not see that while he sang his
heart was breaking, and he would have been
glad if his song had been a sword ? '

They were imprudent words and she knew it,
yet she could not resist the utterance of them 5
for even in her admiration of Vere a certain
bitterness and a certain impatience moved her
against a grandeur of principle that appeared
to her strained and out of nature.

Yere, who was sitting leaning a little back
against the sea-wall, raised herself and sat

I 2

erect ; a warmth of colour came upon her
face, her eyes grew angered and luminous.

I will not affect to misunderstand you,'
she said tranquilly, ' but you misunderstand
both him and me. Long, long ago I think he
could have loved me, and I — could have loved
him. But fate had it otherwise. He is my
knight, you say — perhaps — but only as they
were knights in days of old, without hope and
without shame. I think you had no need to
say this to me, and, perhaps, no right to
say it.'

The Princess Nadine touched her hand
reverently. ' No, T had no right, Vera. But
I thank you for answering me so. Dear — you
are not of our world. You live in it, but it
does not touch you. Your future is dark, but
you bear the lamp of honour in your hand.
We think the light old-fashioned and dull,
but it burns in dark places where we, without it,
stumble and fall. Correze did not sing in vain ;
my brother, I think, will say no more to you of
the sables and the Promenade des Anglais.'
It matters very little whether he does or

no said Vere, ' I should not drive there, and
he knows it. Will you be so good as not to
speak to me again of these things '? I think
words only make them harder to bear, and seem
to lower one to the level of the women who
complain.'

But to speak is so natural '

Not to me.'

It was three o'clock in the December day ;
the mistral was blowing, although in this
sheltered nook of the bay of Villafranca it was
but little felt, the sky was overcast, the waves
were rolling in heavy with surf, little boats,
going on their way to Sans Soupir or Saint
Jean, ploughed through deep waters.
Vere moved towards the house.

Madame Nelaguine went down towards the
garden to visit the young palms she was rearing
for the palace in the Newski Prospect, where
heated air was to replace the lost south to
them, as the fever of society replaces the
dreams of our youth.

Her husband met Vere in the entrance and
stopped her there ; his face was reddened and

dark ; this heavy jaw had the look of the bulldog's;
his eyes had a furtive and ferocious
glance ; it was the first time they had met since
she had curtsied to him her good-night. He
barred her way into the entrance chamber.

Madame, the horses are ready,' he said
curtly, ' go in and put on your sables.'

She lifted her eyes, and a great contempt
spoke in them ; with her lips she was silent.

Do you hear me ? ' he repeated, ' go in
and put on your sables ; I am waiting to drive
with you.'

Along the Promenade des Anglais ? ' she
said, very calmly.

On the Promenade des Anglais,' repeated
Zouroff ; ' do you need twice telling ? '

Though you tell me a hundred times, I will
not drive there.'

He swore a great oath.

I told you what you were to do last night.
Last night you chose to have me insulted by
an opera-singer ; do you suppose that changed
my resolve ? When I say a thing it is done ;
go in and put on your sables.'

-■ -■ ■ »

I will never put them on again ; and I will
not drive with, you ! '

Rage held him speechless for a moment.
Then he swore a great oath.

Go in and put on your sables, or I will
teach you how a Russian can punish rebellion.
You insulted me by the mouth of an opera-singer,
who had your orders no doubt what to
sing. You shall eat dust to-day ; that I swear.*

Yere gave a little gesture of disdain.

Do you think you can terrify me ? ' she
said tranquilly. ' We had better not begin to
measure insults. My account against you is
too heavy to be evenly balanced on that score.'

The calmness of her tone and of her attitude
lashed him to fury.

By God ! I will beat you as my father did
his serfs ! ' he muttered savagely, as he seized
her by the arm.

You can do so if you chose. The Tsar
has not enfranchised me. But make me drive
as you say, where you say, that is beyond
your power.'

She stood facing him on the terrace ; the

angry sea and clouded sky beyond her. Her
simple dignity of attitude impressed him for an
instant with shame and with respect; but his
soul was set on enforcing his command. She
had had him humiliated by the mouth of a
singer ; and he was resolved to avenge the
humiliation ; and having said this thing, though
he was ashamed of it, he would not yield nor
change.

He pulled her towards him by both hands,
and made her stand before him.

You shall learn all that my power means,
madam e. I am your master ; do you deny me
obedience ? '

In things that are right, no.'

^ Right — wrong ! What imbecile's words
are those ? I bid you do what I choose. You
insulted me by your singer's mouth last night ;
I will make you eat dust to-day.'

Vere looked him full in the face.

I said we had better not measure insults ;
I have had too many to count them, but at
last they may pass one's patience — yours has
passed mine.'

Body of Christ ! ' he cried savagely, ' what
were you ? Did I not buy you ? What better
are you than that other woman who has my
sables except that 1 bought you at a higher
cost? Have you never thought of that?
You high-born virgins who are offered up for
gold, how are you so much nobler and higher
than the jolies implies whom you pretend to
despise ? '

I have thought of it every day and night
since I was made your wife. But you know
very well that I did not marry you for either
rank or riches, neither for any purpose of my
own.'

No ? For what did you then ? '

Vere's voice sank very low, so low that the
sound of the sea almost drowned it.

To save my mother — you know that.'

The face of her husband changed, and he
let go his hold of her wrists.

'What did she tell you?' he muttered;
what did she tell you ? '

She told me she was in your debt ; that
she could not pay you ; that you had letters of

hers to some one — lie did not say to whom —
that placed her in your power ; and you had
threatened to use your power unless I — But you
must know all that very well ; better than I do.
It seemed to me right to sacrifice myself ; now
I would not do it ; but then I was such a child,
and she prayed to me in my father's name '

She paused suddenly, for Zouroff laughed
aloud ; a terrible jarring laugh that seemed to
hurt the peace and silence around.

What a liar ! what a liar always ! ' he
muttered, ' and with it all how pretty, and
empty-headed, and harmless she looks — my
Lady Dolly ! '

Then he laughed again.

Was it not true ? ' said Vere.

A great cold and a great sickness came
over her : the look upon her husband's face
frightened her as his rage had had no power
to do.

True ? was what true ? '

That she was in your power ? '

His eyes did not meet hers.

'Yes — no. She had had plenty of my

money, but that was no matter,' he answered
her in a strange forced voice, ' she — she had
paid me ; there was no cause to frighten you,
to coerce you.'

Then he laughed again — a dissonant cruel
laugh, that hurt his wife more than the bruise
he had left upon her wrists.

Was it not true ? ' she muttered again
wearily ; she trembled a little.

Be quiet ! ' said her husband roughly, with
the colour passing over his face again like a
hot wind, ' do not talk of it ; do not think of
it ; she wished you to marry me, and she was
well, in a sense she was afraid, and wished
to muzzle me. Ah ! those dainty ladies ! and
they think to meet the lionnes in the Passage
des Anglais is pollution ! '

Then he laughed yet again.

Vere felt a faintness steal over her, she felt
teiTor — she knew not of what nor why.

^ Then my mother deceived me ! '

His eyes looked at her strangely in a fleeting
glance.

^ Yes, she deceived you ! ' he said briefly.

In a sense she was afraid of me ; but not so —
not so.'

His dark brows frowned, and this face grew
very troubled and full of a dusky red of shame.
Very was mute.

It is of no use speaking of it now ; your
mother never could be true to anyone he said
with an effort. ' I am — sorry. You were misled
but it is of no use now — it is too late. Give
the sables to the first beggar you meet. That
damned singer was right last night ; you are a
cup of gold and I — like best the trough where
the swine drink ! '

Vere stood motionless and mute, a vague
terror of some unknown thing unnerved her
and paralysed her dauntless courage, her proud
tranquillity ; she felt that for her mother this
man who was before her had a scorn as boundless
as any he could feel for the basest
creatures of the world : and for once she was a
coward, for once she dared not ask the truth.

Zouroff stood still a moment, looked at her
wistfully, then bowed to her with deep respect,
and turned away in silence. A little while

later he was driving rapidly through. Eza to
the Casino of Monte Carlo.

His sister came to Vere anxiously as she
saw his horses drive away.

I hope he was not violent, my dear ? '

'No.'

And he did not speak of your driving on
that road ? '

He did not enforce it.'

Vere spoke feebly, her teeth chattered a little
as with cold ; she had sat down by the balustrade
of the terrace and had a stupefied look
like the look of some one who has had a blow
or fall.

I am thankful my children died at their
birth,' she said after some moments, in a voice
so low that it scarcely stirred the air.

Then she got up, drew a shawl about her
and went once more towards the house ; a
great darkness was upon her ; she felt as in the
Greek tragedies which she had read in her childhood,
those felt who were pursued, innocent, yet
doomed by the Furies for their mothers' sins.

Meanwhile, her husband was driving against

the hot south-east wind across the Place du
Palais of Monaco.

He was thinking — ' the quadroon is a beast
of prey but she is honesty itself beside half the
women in society, the delicate dainty dames that
we flirt with in the ballroom alcoves, and lift
our hats to as they go by in the parks ! '

A little while later he went up the steps of
the great temple of Hazard. He met the
mother of Vere coming out between the columns
from the vestibule; it was sunset, she had
been playing since three o'clock and had
amused herself, she had won a thousand
francs or so; she was going home to dinner
contented and diverted. She was still staying
with her friends at the villa of the Condamine.
She looked like a little Dresden figure, she had
a good deal of pale rose and golden brown in her
dress, she had a knot of pink roses in her hand,
and had above her head a large pink sunshade.
Casse-une-Croute had been playing very near
her at the table, but Lady Dolly did not mind
these accidents, she was not supposed to
know Casse-une-Croute by sight from any

other unrecognisable person amongst the pilgrims
of pleasure.

The ponies are waiting for you, madame,'
said her son-in-law as he met her, and took her
from her little attendant group of young men,
and sauntered on by her side down by the
marble stairs.

There was a gorgeous sunset over sea and
sky, the thickets of camellias were all in
gorgeous blossom, the odorous trees and
shrubs filled the air with perfume, some music
of Ambrose Thomas was floating on the air
in sweet distant strains, throngs of gay people
were passing up and down ; the great glittering
pile rose above them like a temple of Moorish
art.

I have won a thousand francs, quel
bonheur ! ' cried Lady Dolls

^ Quel bonheur,' repeated Zouroff; 'I suppose
that sunshade did not cost much more ? '

Not half as much,' said Lady Dolly
seriously ; ' these stones in the handle are only
Ceylon garnets.'

Zouroff did not look at her, his face was

flushed and gloomy. He turned a little aside
at the foot of the steps into one of the winding
walks and motioned to a marble bench : ' Will
you sit there a moment, the ponies can wait ;
I want to say a word to you that is better said
here.'

Lady Dolly put her bouquet of roses to her
lips and felt annoyed. ' When people want to
speak to one, it is never to say anything
agreeable,' she thought to herself, 'and he
looks angry ; perhaps it is because that 
was at my elbow — but I shall not
say anything to Yere, I never make mischief 5
he must surely know that.'

Why did you induce your daughter to
marry me by false representations? ' said Zouroff
abruptly.

False what ? ' echoed Lady Dolly vaguely.

'You deceived me and you deceived her,'
said Zouroff. — Lady Dolly laughed nervously.

Deceived ! what a very low hysterical sort
of word ; and what nonsense ! '

'You deceived her,' he repeated, 'and you
cannot deny it; you told her nothing of the
truth.'

The truth ? ' said Lady Dolly growing very
pale and with a nervous contraction at the end
corners of her mouth, * Who ever does tell the
truth ? I don't know anybody '

Of course you could not tell it her,' said
Zouroff, who also had grown pale, 'but you
forced her to your purpose with a lie — that
was perhaps worse. You knew very well that
I would not have had her driven to me so ; you
knew very well that I supposed her bought by
ambition like any other ; you did a vile
thing '

You turned preacher ! ' said Lady Dolly,
with a little shrill angry laugh, 'that is really
too funny, and you are speaking not too
politely. You sought Vere's hand, I gave it
you ; I really do not know '

But I never bid you force her to me by a
lie ! You never feared me — you — you were no
more in fear of me than of a half a score of
others ; besides, you know very well that no
man who is not a cur ever speaks '

'' I was afraid ; I thought you would be
furious unless she married you ; when men are

VOL. III. K

angry then they speak; how could I tell?
You wished that thing, you had it; you are
very ungrateful, and she too.'

Lady Dolly had recovered herself; she had
regained that effrontery which was her equivalent
for courage ; she had no conscience, and
she did not see that she had done so much that
was wrong. After all, what was a sin ? — it was
an idea. In her way she was very daring.
She would kneel at the flower-services and
weep at the Lenten ones, but she did not
believe a word of all her prayers, and penance ;
they looked well, so she did them ; that was all.

For the moment she had been frightened,
but she was no longer frightened. What
could he do, what could he say ? When she
could not be punished for it, guilt of any sort
lay very lightly on her head. She knew that
he was powerless, and she lost the fear with
which the strong rough temper of Sergius
Zouroff had often really moved her in an earlier
time.

The contraction at the corners of her mouth
still remained and quivered a little, but. she

recovered all her coolness and all that petulant
impudence which was perhaps the most serviceable
of all her qualities.

'You are very rude she said, 'and you
are very thankless. You are a very faithless
husband, and I know everything and I say
nothing, and I come and stay in your house
and you ought to thank me, yes, you ought
to thank me. I do not know what you mean
when you say I used force with my daughter ;
yo$i could see very well she detested you and
yet you chose to insist, whose fault was that ?
You have been generous, I do not deny that,
but then you are just as much so to creatures —
more so ! I think you have spoken to me
abominably ; I am not used to that sort of
language, I do not like being rebuked when I
have always acted for the best if the results
did not repay me my sacrifices. As for your
imagining I wanted so very much to marry
Yere to you, I can assure you I need not have
done so, I could have married her at that very
same time to Jura if I had chosen.'

'To Jura?'

K 2

Zouroff looked at her, then burst into a
bitter laughter that was more savage than
any of his oaths.

You are an extraordinary woman ! ' he
said with a little short laugh.

I don't know why you should say that
said Lady Dolly, *I don't know why you
should say that ; I am sure I am exactly like
everybody else ; I hate singularity, there is
nothing on earth so vulgar ; I do not know
whatever I have done to deserve the insult ^f
being called " extraordinary." I hate people
who drive at things. I always detest conundrums
and acrostics, perhaps I am too stupid
for them ; I would rather be stupid than
extraordinary, it is less voyant.^

He stared down on her gloomily for awhile,
while the laugh rattled in his throat with a
cynical sound that hurt her nerves.

You are a wonderful woman, Miladi, I
never did you justice, I see,' he said curtly;
Zola will want a lower deep before long, I
suppose ; he will do well to leave his cellars for
the drawing-rooms.'

What do you mean ? ' said Lady Dolly,
opening innocent eyes of surprise.

Zouroff paced slowly by her side ; he was
silent for some moments, then he said abruptly,


'Pardon me if I do not ask you to
return to my house, you and your daughter
should not be sheltered by the same roof.'

Lady Dolly's pretty teeth gnawed her underlip
to keep in her fury ; she could not rebuke,
and she dared not resent it.

We had better not quarrel,' she said
feebly, ' people would talk so terribly.'

Of course we will not quarrel,' said her
son-in-law with his cynical smile, 'whoever
does quarrel in our world ? Only — you understand
that I mean what I say.'

I am sure I understand nothing that you
mean to-day,' said Lady Dolly, with a little
feeble, flitting laugh.

Then in unbroken silence they went to
where the ponies waited.

You are too cruel to us not to return,' said
Zouroff publicly, for the sake of the world's

wide-open ears, as she went to her carriage on
his arm.

I cannot stand your musical,' said Lady
Dolly, also for the world, and, in his ear, added
with an injured sweetness, ' and I do not like
reproaches, and I never deserve them.'

Lady Dolly drove home to La Condamine,
where she was staying with the Marquise Riches
and, when she was all alone behind the
ponies, shuddered a little, and turned sick, and
felt for a moment as if the leaden hand of a dark
guilt lay on her conscience ; her nerves had
been shaken, though she had kept so calm a
front, so cool a smile ; she had been a coward,
and she had sacrificed the child of her dead
husband because in her cowardice she had
feared the resurrection to her hurt of her own
bygone sins, but she had never thought of
herself as a wicked woman. In her frothy
world there is no such thing as wickedness,
there is only exposure ; and the dread of it,
which passes for virtue.

She lived, like all women of her stamp and
her epoch in an atmosphere of sugared sophisms;

/*

she never reflected, she never admitted, that
she did wrong ; in her world nothing mattered
much unless, indeed, it were found out, and got
into the public mouth.

Shifting as the sands, shallow as the rain-pools,
drifting in all danger to a lie, incapable
of loyalty, insatiably curious, still as a friend
and ill as a foe, kissing like Judas, denying
like Peter, impure of thought, even where by
physical bias or politic prudence, still pure
in act, the woman of modern society is too
often at once the feeblest and the foulest outcome
of a false civilisation. Useless as a
butterfly, corrupt as a canker, untrue to even
lovers and friends because mentally incapable
of comprehending what truth means, caring
only for physical comfort and mental inclination,
tired of living, but afraid of dying ;
believing some in priests, and some in physiologists,
but none at all in virtue ; sent to
sleep by chloral, kept awake by strong waters
and raw meat ; bored at twenty, and exhausted
at thirty, yet dying in the harness of pleasure
rather than drop out of the race and live

naturally ; pricking their sated senses with
the spur of lust, and fancying it love ; taking
their passions as they take absinthe before
dinner j false in everything, from the swell of
their breast to the curls at their throat; —
beside them the guilty and tragic figures of old,
the Medea, the Clytemnestra, the Phaedra,
look almost pure, seem almost noble.

When one thinks that they are the only
shape of womanhood that comes hourly before
so many men, one comprehends why the old
Christianity which made womanhood sacred dies
out day by day, and why the new Positivism,
which would make her divine, can find no
lasting roost.

The faith of men can only live by the purity
of women, and there is both impurity and
feebleness at the core of the dolls of Worth, as
the canker of the red phylloxera works at the
root of the vine.

But there is ' no harm ' in them, that is the
formula of society ; there is ' no harm ' in
them ; they have never been found out, and
they are altogether unconscious of any guilt.

They believe they have a conscience as
they know they have a liver, but the liver
troubles them sometimes ; the conscience is
only a word.

Lady Dolly had been a very guilty woman,
but she never thought so. Perhaps in real
truth the shallow-hearted are never really
guilty. ' They know not what they do ' is a
plea of mercy which they perchance deserve
even no less than they need it.

A day or two later she made some excuse,
and left the Riviera.

After all,' she thought to herself as the
train ran into the heart of the rocks, and the
palm trees of Monte Carlo ceased to lift their
plumes against the sky, ' after all it was
quite true what I did tell her ; I used to be
horribly afraid of him, he can be such a brute.
I never was really at ease till I saw my letters
on the back of the fire ; he can sulk, he
can rage, he can quarrel with me if he choose,
but he never can do me any harm. If he be
ever so unpleasant about me, people will only
laugh and say that a man always hates his

wife's mother, and I really am Vere's mother,
odd as it seems ; I think I look quite as young
as she does ; it is such a mistake, she will
never paint, she puts ten years on to herself.'

Then she took the little glass out of her
travelling bag, and looked at her face ; it was
pretty, with soft curls touching the eyebrows
under a black saucer of a hat with golden-coloured
feathers ; she had a yellow rose at her
throat, linked into her racoon fur; she was
satisfied with what she saw in the mirror ; when
she got into her train she found a charming
young man that she knew a little going the
same way, and she gave him a seat in her coupe,
and flirted pleasantly all the way to Lyons.

What a mistake it is to take life aii
grand serieux,^ she thought ; ' now if poor
Vere were not so tragic, I think she might bethe
happiest woman in the world — still.'

But then Vere could not have flirted with a
chance young man in a coupe, and given him a
yellow rose with the whisper of a half-promised
rendezvous as they parted ; these are the
capabilities that make happy women.

In the house on the Gulf of Saint-Hospice a
heavy gloom reigned.

Life ran the same course as usual, society
came and went, people laughed and talked, guests
were gathered and were dispersed, but there
was a shadow in the house that even the ceremonies
and frivolities of daily custom could not
altogether hide or dissipate. Sergius Zouroff
was taciturn and quarrelsome, and it taxed all
the resources of his sister's tact and wit and
worldly wisdom to repair the harm and cover
the constraint produced by his captious and
moody discourtesies. To his wife he said
nothing.

Except the conventional phrase that society
in the presence of servants necessitated, Zouroff
preserved an unbroken silence to her ; he was
gloomy but taciturn, now and then under his
bent brows his eyes watched her furtively.
This forbearance was only a lull in the storm,
such a peace as came over the gulf beneath
her windows after storm, when the waves sank
for an hour at noon to rise in redoubled fury and
send the breakers over the quay at sunrise. As
for her, the golden cup was now full, but was
full with tears.

Would she have had it empty ?

She was not sure.

The echo of that one song seemed always
on her ear ; in the dreams of her troubled sleep
she murmured its words ; the singer seemed to
her transfigured, as to a woman bound in
martyrdom, in days of old, seemed the saint
with sword and palm that rode through fiery
heats and living walls of steels to release her
from the stake or wheel. ' The woman in
Calvados called him the Angel Raphael,' she
thought with dim eyes.

It was still midwinter when Sergius Zouroff,
several weeks before his usual time, abruptly
left the villa of Villafranca, and went with his
wife and sister to his hotel in Paris. Zouroff
had taken a bitter hatred to this place where
the only reproof he had ever endured, the only
challenge he had ever received, had been cast at
him publicly and in suchlike that ho could not
resent nor avenge it. When he drove through
the streets of Monaco or the streets of Nice, he
thought he saw on every face a laugh ; when
he was saluted by his numerous acquaintances
he heard in the simplest greeting a sound of
ridicule ; when a song wa hummed in the
open air he fancied it was the song of the
Coupe door. In impatience and anger he took
his household to Paris.

A great emotion, a sort of fear came upon
Vere as she once more saw the walls of her house
in Paris.

For in Paris was Correze.

To the honour and loyalty of her soul it
seemed to her that she ought never to see his
face or hear his voice again. She would have

been willing could she have chosen to have gone
far away from all the luxuries and homage of
the world, to be buried in humility and obscurity,
labouring for God and man, and bearing always
in her memory that song which had been raised
like a sword in her defence.

When at the end of the long cold journey
long and cold, despite all that wealth could
do to abridge, and luxury to rob it of its terrors
she saw the pale January light of a Paris
morning shine on the ' Slave of Gerome ' in
her bedchamber, on the table beneath the
picture was a great bouquet of roses ; with
the roses was a little sprig of sweetbread.

To be in leaf in the winter she knew that
the little homely cottage plant must have had
the care of hothouse science. She did not need
to ask who had sent her that welcome once
more.

She bent her face down on the roses and
her eyes were wet. Then she put them away
and fell on her knees and prayed the old simple
prayer — simple and homely as the sweetbread — .
to be delivered from evil.

At the same time her husband, who had
driven not to his own house but straight to the
Faubourg St. Germain, was standing amidst
the gay chinoiseries of the Duchesse Jeanne's
famous boudoir. The Duchesse was laughing
and screaming ; he was looking down with bent
brows.

'Oh, can you think for a moment the
story is not known to all Paris ! ' she was
crying. ' How could you — how could you
with a hundred people there to hear ? My
dear, it was only I who kept it out of " Figaro " !
Such a lovely story as it was, and of course
they made it still better. My dear, how stupid
you are, blind as a bat, as a mole ! To be sure
we are all dying now to see the first signs of
your conversion. How will you begin ? Will
you go to church, will you drive your mother-in-law
round the lake, will you take an oath
never to enter a cafe? Do tell me how you
mean to begin your reformation ? It will bethe
dullest thing of the year ! '

II vous plait de plaisanter,^ said her visitor
stiffly, between his shut teeth.

When lie left the Hotel de Sonnaz, the
half-formed resolution which he had made to
be less unworthy of his wife had faded away ;
he felt galled, stung, infuriated. ,
and the other companions of his licentious
hours, found him sullen, fierce, moody.
When they rallied him he turned on them
savagely, and made them feel that, though
he had chosen to toy with them and let them
stuff themselves with his gold, he was their
master and their purchaser — a tyrant that it
was dangerous to beard, a lion with whom it
was death to play.

There was strength in his character, though
it had been wasted in excesses of all kinds and
in a life of utter selfishness and self-indulgence ;
and this strength left in him a certain manliness
that even his modes of life and all his base
habits could not utterly destroy ; and that
latent manliness made him yield a sullen
respect to the courageousness and unselfishness
of the woman who was his wife and his princess
before the world, but in fact had been the victim
of his tyrannies and the martyr of his lusts.

There were times when lie would have liked
to say to her, ' forgive me, and pray for me.'
But his pride withheld him, and his cynical
temper made him sneer at himself. He
dreaded ridicule. It was the only dread that
was on him. He could not endure that his
world should laugh ; so, uniting more display
and effrontery than ever, he paraded his vices
before that world, and all the while hated the
wanderers to them and the associates of thejii.
He thought if he lived more decently, that
the whole of Europe would make a mock of it,
and say that he had been reformed by the rebukes
of Correze. So he showed himself abroad
with the verses pais du cabaret brutal, though
they grew loathsome to him, and revenged
himself on them by crushing their coarse frail
worthlessness with savage harshness.

Vere could not tell the strange sort of
remorse which moved him. She saw herself
daily and hourly insulted, and bore it as she
had done before. So long as he asked no
public degradation of herself, like that which
he had commanded on the Promenade de
VOL. III. I*

Anglais, she was passive and content-with that
joyless and mournful contentment which is
merely the absence of greater evils.

Although they only met in society there
was a sort of timidity in the manner of Sergius
ZourofP to his wife, a gentleness and a homage
in his tone when he addressed her. Vere,
who shrank from him rather more than less,
did not perceive it, but all others did. ' Will
Zouroff end with being in love with his wife ? '
his friends said, with a laugh. The Duchesse
Jeanne heard it said on all sides of her.
Will he be a good husband after all ? ' she
thought angrily ; and her vanity rose in
alarm like the quills of the bruised porcupine.


She attempted a jest or two with him, but
they fell flat; there came an anxious sparkle
in his gloomy eyes that warned her off such
witticisms. She was perplexed and irritated.
After all, it will be very diverting if you
should end as le mari amoureux ? ' she could not
resist saying at hazard one day. Zouroff
looked down, and his face was very grave.

Let me alone. I can be dangerous ; you
know that. No, I am not in love with my
wife; one is not in love with marble, however
beautiful the lines of it. But I respect her.
It is very odd for me to feel respect for any
woman. It is new to me.'

It is a very creditable emotion,' said the
Duchesse, with a little sneer. ' But it is rather
a dull sentiment, is it not ? '

Perhaps,' said ZourofP, gloomily.
A sort of uneasiness and anxiety was upon
him. Something of the feeling that had
touched him for the child Vere at Felicite
moved him once more before his wife ; not
passion in any way, but more nearly tenderness
than it had ever been in his nature to feel for
any living thing. He had always thought that
he had bought her as he had bought the others,
only par le chemin de la chapelle, and he had
had a scorn for her that had spoiled and
marred his thoughts of her. Now that he
knew her to be the martyr of her mother's
schemes, a pity that was full of honour rose up
in him. After all, she was so innocent herl

2

self, and lie had hurt her so grossly; hurt
her with an injury that neither sophistry
nor gold could make the less.

He was a coarse and brutal man ; he had
had his own will from childhood upon men
and women, slaves and animals. He was cruel
with the unthinking, unmeasured cruelty of
long self-indulgence ; but he was a gentleman
in certain instincts, despite all, and the manhood
in him made him feel a traitor before
Vere. A kind of reverence that was almost
fear came into him before her ; he seemed to
himself unworthy to cross the threshold of her
room.

The leopard cannot change his spots, nor
the Ethiopian his skin, nor could he abandon
habits and vices engrained in all the fibre of
his being; but he began to feel himself as
unfit for his wife's young life as a murderer
to touch the Eucharist. She could not imagine
anything of the thoughts and the remorse that
moved him. She only saw that he left her alone
and ceased to vent his tyrannies upon her. She
was thankful. The hours and the weeks that

passed without her seeing him were the most
peaceful days of her life. When he addressed
her with gentleness she was alarmed, she was
more afraid of caresses than of his curses.
He saw this fear in her, and a vague half sullen
sadness began to enter into him. He began
to understand that he owned this woman body
and soul, and yet was further from her than any
other creature, because no other had outraged
her so deeply as he had done.

He was a man who heeded his sins not at
all, and even of crime thought little. He had
the absolute disbelief and the profound moral
indifference of his century; but his offences
against Vere he had been made to feel, and it
rendered him in her presence also timid, and
in her absence almost faithful. He had
gathered the edelweiss and he knew that his
love was only fit for the brambles and poison-berries.


The season passed away wearily to Vere ; an
intense pain and a vague terror were always
with her. She went out into the world as
usual, but it seemed to her more than ever the

most monotonous, as it was the most costly,
way of destroying time. She was in her tribune
at Chantilly, in her carriage in the Bois,
in her diamonds at Embassies, and she
received that homage which a woman of her
loveliness and her position is always surrounded
by, however indifferent be her mood or unwilling
her ear.

But the whole life seemed to her more than
ever a disease, a fever, a strained and unwholesome
folly. She strove more and more to
escape from it and from herself by labour
amidst the poor and tenderness for them,
.js .' You should be canonized, Vera ! ' said her
sister-in-law to her, with a little cynical impatience
; to her brother, Madame Nelaguine said
with moist eyes,

Sergius, one day you will see the red and
white roses of Paradise in your wife's lap asher
husband did in S. Elizabeth's.'
.; Zouroff was silent.

Alas ! alas ! the age of miracles is past,'
thought his sister. ' Good works bring their
own fruits, to those capable of them, in peace of

mind and innocence of soul, that I believe; but
the world has ceased to adore ; the very priests
have ceased to believe ; the vv^ays of sin are not
death but triumph ; and the poor do not love
the hand that feeds them; they snatch and
tear, then snarl and bite, like a street cur.
Alas ! alas ! oil sont les neiges danton ! '

Meanwhile her mother Yere did not see
at that time. She was thankful.

Lady Dolly was one of the five hundred
leaders of English society, and could not leave
her duties. She was more popular than ever
before. Her balls were the prettiest of the
year, and people could breathe at them ; she
was exclusive yet always amiable ; she knew
how to unite a social severity with a charming
good nature ; she began to call herself old with
the merriest little laugh in the world, and she
began to doubt whether she still ought to
dance. ' A dear little woman,' said the world ;
and everyone pitied her for having a daughter
who was cold, who was austere, and who had
so little affection for her.

My Vere does not love me. It comes froiii

my own fault, no doubt, in letting her be away
from me in her childhood,' said Lady Dolly
softly, to her intimate friends ; and her eyes
were dim and her voice pathetic.

There were only two persons who did
not believe in her in all her London world.
These were a rough, gloomy, yet goodnatured
man, Who was no longer Lord Jura, but Lord
Shetland ; and Fuschia, Duchess of Mull.

Guess she's all molasses,' said her Grace,
who in moments of ease returned to her vernacular,
' but my word ! ain't there wasps at
the bottom.'

'After all, poor little Pussie is not the
simpleton I thought her,' mused Lady Stoat of
Stitchley, with a sigh of envy, for her own
unerring wisdom and exquisite tact and prudence
had not been able to avert exposure and
scandal from her own daughter, who was living
with a French actor in Italy, while Lord Berk-hampstead
was drinking himself to death on
brandy.

A few days after their arrival, Correze had
left Paris. For the first time in his life he

had refused to play in Paris on his arrival
from the south, and had signed a four months'
engagement with Vienna and Berlin. ^ They
will say you are afraid to meet Prince Zouroff,'
said an old friend to him. ' They may say
it if they please,' answered Correze, wearily,
and with a movement of disdain.

He knew that his indignation and his disguise
had carried him into an imprudence, an
imprudence that he regretted now that the
story of ' La Coupe door ' had flown through
society, regretted it lest it should annoy or
compromise her ; and for her sake he would
not stay where she was.

He knew how the tongues of the world
wagged with or without reason at a mere
whisper, and he knew that there were so many
who would rejoice to see the pure, cold, snow-white
purity of Yere's name fall into the mud
of calumny ; rejoice out of sheer wantonness,
mere purposeless malice, mere love of a new
sensation. * Blessed are the pure of spirit' says
the Evangelist, but society says it not with him.

He loved her ; but it was an emotion no

more akin to the noble, tender, and self-denying
love of other days than to the shallow
sensualities of his own.

He had been satiated with intrigue, surfeited
with passion ; underlying the capriciousness
of a popular idol, and the ardour of an
amorous temper, there were the patience and
the loyalty of the mountaineer's heart in him.
Whosoever has truly loved the Alpine heights
in early youth, keeps something of their force
and something of their freshness and their
chastity in his soul always. Correze was an
artist and a man of the world ; but he had been
first and was still, under all else, a child of
nature ; and he would utterly deny that nature
was the foul thing that it is now painted by
those who call themselves realists. He denied
that a drunkard and a prostitute are all who
are real in the world.

When the soldier dies at his post, unhonoured
and unpitied, and out of sheer duty, is
that unreal because it is noble ? ' he said one
night to his companions. ' When the sister of
charity hides her youth and her sex under a

grey shroud, and gives up her whole life to woe
and solitude, to sickness and pain, is that
unreal because it is wonderful ? A man paints
a spluttering candle, a greasy cloth, a mouldy
cheese, a pewter can ; " how real ! " they cry.
If he paint the spirituality of dawn, the light
of the summer sea, the flame of arctic nights,
of tropic woods, they are called unreal, though
they exist no less than the candle and the
cloth, the cheese and the can. Ruy Bias is
now condemned as unreal because the lovers
kill themselves ; the realists forget that there
are lovers still to whom that death would be
possible, would be preferable, to low intrigue
and yet more lowering falsehood. They can
only see the mouldy cheese, they cannot seethe
sunrise glory. All that is heroic, all
that is sublime, impersonal, or glorious, is
derided as unreal. It is a dreary creed. It
will make a dreary world. Is not my Venetian
glass with its iridescent hues of opal as real
every whit as your pot of pewter? Yet the
time is coming when everyone, morally and
mentally at least, will be allowed no other thana

pewter pot to drink out of, under pain of
being " writ down an ass " — or worse. It is a
dreary prospect.'

And he would not be content with it. There
were the Ruy Bias and the Romeo in him as
there are in all men who are at once imaginative
and ardent. He had the lover in him of
southern lands, of older days. He would watch
in long hours of cold midnight merely to see
her image go by him ; he would go down to
the clifiP on the northern coast only to gather
a spray of sweetbread on the spot where he had
seen her first ; he would row in rough seas at
dark under her villa wall in the south for the
sake of watching the light in her casement;
his love for her was a religion with him, simple,
intense, and noble ; it was an unending suffering,
but it was a suffering he loved better than
all his previous joys. When he saw her husband
in haunts of vicious pleasure, he could
have strangled him for very shame that he was
not worthier of her. When he saw him beside
tile dusky face of the quadroon, he could
have dragged him from his carriage and

hurled him under the feet of the wife he outraged.


In cue of the few days before his departure
he passed Sergius Zouroflf on the Boulevard
des Italiens. Correze stood still to let
him speak if he would. Zouroff looked away
and walked onward without any sign, except
of anger, from the sudden sullen gleam in his
half shut eyes.

The arrogance of a man whose birth was
higher, because his race had been greater, than
the Romanos', made it impossible for him
to imagine that Correze could be his enemy or
his rival.

He thought the singer had only sung what
had been commanded him. He thought the
rebuke to him had been his wife's, and Correze
only its mouthpiece.

Still he hated him ; he avoided him ; he
would have liked to wring the throat of that
silver voiced nightingale.

Correze suffered bitterly to do nothing, to go
away, to go as if he were a coward ; yet he did
it lest the world should speak of her — the light

and cruel world to which. nothing is sacred,
which makes a joke of man's dishonour and a
jest of woman's pain.

He did it, and went and sang in the cities
of the north with an aching heart. This is
always the doom of the artist : the world has
no pity. Its children must not pause to weep
nor go aside to pray. They must be always
in the front, always exerting all their force
and all their skill before their public, or they
pass from remembrance and perish. The
artist, when he loves has two mistresses, each
as inexorable as the other.

Correze could not abandon his art ; would
not abandon it more than a yearling child will
leave its mother. It was all he had. It was
a delight to him, that empire of sound which
came of a perfect mastery, that consciousness
and clearness of genius. Without the listening
crowds, the glittering houses, the nights of
triumph, he might have been only dull and
lonely ; but without the delight of melody, the
command of that song which had gone with
him all his life, as a nightingale's goes with

it till it dies, lie would have been desolate.


Therefore in the keen cold of the northern
winter and their tardy, niggard spring, he sang,
as the nightingale sings, even while its lover
lies shot under the leaves ; and the multitudes
and their leaders alike adored him. In Vienna
the whole city saluted him as it salutes its
Kaiser, and in the vast barrack of Berlin the
blare of trumpets and the clash of arms were
forgotten for one soft voice that sang under
Gretchen's cottage-window.

After all, when one has known this, one
has known human greatness surely,' he thought
wistfully, as he stood on his balcony in the
keen starlight of northern skies, and saw vast
throngs fill the square beneath him and all the
streets around, and heard the mighty hoch, that
northern lungs give for their emperors and
their armies ring, through the frosty air for him.

Yet a mist came over his eyes that obscured
the torch glare and the gathered multitudes,
and the buildings that were so white and so
vast in the moonlight. He thought that he

would have given all this triumphs, all his joys
nays, his very voice itself — to undo the thing
that had been done, and make the wife of
Sergius ZourofiP once more the child by the
sweetbread hedge on the cliflP.

Though for all the world he was a magician,
he had no sorcery for himself. He was
but a man, like all the others, and to himself
he seemed weaker than all the rest. The
bonds of the world bound him — the bonds of
its conventions, of its calumnies, of its commonplaces.
He could not strike a blow for
her honour that the world would not construe
to her shame.

And who knows but that if she knew that
I loved her, she too might never forgive,' he
thought wearily ; and the flowers flung to him
through the frost seemed but weeds, the multitude
fools, the rejoicing city a madhouse.

When Fame stands by us all alone, she is
an angel clad in light and strength ; but when
Love touches her she drops her sword, and
fades away, ghostlike and ashamed.

His sacrifice was of little use. There

were too many womeii jealous of liii, and
envious of her, for the story of the Coupe door
not to be made the root and centre of a million
falsehoods.

Yon may weep your eyes blind, you may
shout your throat dry, you may deafen the
ears of your world for half a lifetime, and you
may never get a truth believed in, never have
a simple fact accredited. But the lie flies like
the swallow, multiplies itself like the caterpillar,
is accepted everywhere, like the visits of
a king ; it is a royal guest for whom the gates
fly open, the red carpet is unrolled, the trumpets
sound, the crowds applaud.

Jeanne de Sonnaz laughed a little, shrugged
her shoulders, then said very prettily that
everyone knew there was nothing ; Vere was
a saint. And then the thing was done.

Who said it first of all no one ever knew.
Who ever sees the snake-spawn, the plague-mist
gather ? The snake-brood grows and comes
out into the light, the plague-mist spreads and
slays its thousands — that is enough to see.

Who first whispered through the great

VOL. III. M

world the names of the Princess Zouroff and
the singer Correze together? No one could
have told. All in a moment it seemed as if
everyone in society vere murmuring, hinting,
smiling, with that damnable smile with which
the world always greets the approach of a foul
idea.

A cruel story runs on wheels, and every
hand oils the wheels as they run.

An old love, an early love,' so they muttered
; and the fans and the cigarettes made
little breaks and waves in the air, as much as
to say it was always so. You could say what
you liked — they murmured — when people were
so very cold, so very proud, so very proper;
there was always some cause. An old love —
ah ? that was why she was so fond of music !
Then society laughed ; its inane cruel chirping
laughter, when it smells a sin.

She had many foes. When those calm,
deep, disdainful eyes had looked through the
souls of others, those other souls — so often
mean and shameless with paltry lusts or
swollen with paltry forms of pride — had shrunk

under that glance, and hated the one who all
innocently gave it ; when her serene simplicity
and her grave grace had made the women
around her look merely dolls of the Palais
Royal toyshops, and the fantastic frivolity
of her epoch seem the silliest and rankest
growth of an age in nothing over wise — then,
and for that alone, she had become beset by
enemies unseen and unsuspected, but none the
less perilous for their secresy. When women
had called her farouche in their drawing-room
jargon, they had only meant that she was chaste,
that she was grave, that folly did not charm
her, and that she was a rebuke to themselves.

That under the snow there should be mud ;
that at the heart of the wildrose there should
be not one worm, but many ; that the edelweiss
should be rotten and worthless after all —
what joy ! The imagined joy of angels over one
who repents can never be one-thousandth part
so sweet and strong as the actual joy of sinners
over one purity that falls.

So she had always been a falsehood like
them all ! So Correze had always been her

M 2

lover ! All the grand ladies and all the pretty
ladies in the great world laughed gingerly, and
tittered with that titter, whio-h in Mary Jane
and Louis one would call vulgar; and, in
their nests of new knicknackery and old art,
cooed together and soothed each others' ruffled
plumage, and agreed that they were none of
them surprised.

Meanwhile Vere knew nothing, and went
on her way with calm, proud feet, unwitting
that amongst the ermine of her mantle of
innocence the moths of slander were at work.
Who first said it ? No one knew. Perhaps her
mother engendered it by a sigh. Perhaps her
husband's friend begot it by a smile. No one
could ever tell. Only society talked. That
was all. Society talked. It means as much
as when in Borgia's days they said, ' To-night
the Pope sups with you.'

Lady Dolly heard, as women like her hear
everything. ' Are they saying this ? I always
thought they would say it,' she thought, and
was vaguely disquieted, and yet not ill-pleased.
When she had caught the first rumour of it one

afternoon, in a whisper never meant for her ears,
she had gone back to her dressing-room to get
ready for a dinner at an embassy, and had been
good-nature itself to her maid, easily pleased
with her curls, and quite indifferent as to what
jewels they gave her. 'Anything looks well
with white,' she had said dreamily, and her
maid thought she must have got another 'affair'
on the wind. But she was only feeling a sort
of velvety content in the ultimate justice of
things. ' She has been so cruel to me,' she
thought, really, honestly thought it. ' She
has always been so cold and so grave, and so
very unpleasant, and always looked really as if
one were no better than one should be ; it
would be very funny if she gets a few " nasty
ones," as the boys says, herself; it really will
be no more than she deserves. And, besides,
people don't like that sort of manner, that sort
of way she has with her eyelids, as if one were
something so very bad and queer if one just
happen to say the least little thing that she
fancies not quite correct ; nobody does like it,
it is so very unsympathetic; women are sure

to pay her out if they get the least chance,
and men will be quite as delighted to hear it.
It is such a mistake not to make yourself
pleasant, not to be like everybody else and
always amiable. Such heaps of people will
always take your part if you have been amiable.
I wonder if it is true ? No, of course it isn't
true. I don't believe Correze ever kissed the
back of her hand. But it will be very funny
if she should get talked about ; very sad, but
so funny too ! '

And Lady Dolly's mind drifted complacently''
and comfortably over a long series of years, in
which she had skated on the very thinnest ice
without ever getting a drenching, and had had
all the four winds of heaven blowing ' stories '
about her like a scattered pack of cards, and
yet had never been the worse for any one of
them. ' It is because I have always been so
pleasant to them all,' thought Lady Dolly
complacently, and indeed she always had been.

She had said very ill-natured things when
they were safe to be said ; she had laughed at
nearly everybody when their backs were turned ;

she had often amused herself with putting
spokes in the wheels of happy marriages, of
promising* courtships, of social ambitions, of
youthful careers ; but she had done it all
merely as a squirrel steals nuts, and she had
always been pleasant to women ; always kissed
them, always caressed them, always confided,
or always seemed to confide, in them, and
above all had always made them think her
both silly and successful, a union of the two
most popular social qualities. 'Yere never
would kiss any of them,' she thought, with the
contempt that an old diplomatist feels for an
obstinate politician who will not understand
that language is given to us to conceal our
thoughts ; and she drew her gloves up to the
elbow and took her big fan and went to her
party with a complacent feeling of superiority
and expectation. ' It would be very horrid,
of course,' she thought, ' and of course it would
be dreadful if there were any scene ; and I am
not very sure what the Russian laws are if it
were to come to any separation che corps et de
Mens; but still if she were to get a fright

one couldn't altogether be sorry. It would
teach her that she was only made of the same
stuff as other people.'

For what with the many years of separation
from her daughter, and the sense of shame that
perpetually haunted her for the sacrifice she had
made of Vere's fair life, Lady Dolly had almost
grown to hate her. She was always envying,
fearing, disliking the pale, cold, beautiful
woman whose diamonds outshone her own as
the sun outshines the lamps ; Vere was not
one tithe so much her dead husband's child as
she was the Princess Zouroff, and there were
many times when Lady Dolly caught herself
thinking of her only as the Princess Zouroff,
as a social rival and a social superior, and,
as such, hating her and forgetting, quite forgetting,
that she had ever been a little flowerlike
baby that had owed life to herself. ' Vere
has been so cruel to me,' she would think, ' and
so very unforgiving.'

For Lady Dolly true woman of the times,
always thought that those whom she had
wronged were cruel to her. Why would they

not forget? She herself could always forget.


It shows such a bad disposition to resent
and remember so long,' she would says to herself;
life was too short for long memories. ' Give me
the art of oblivion cried Themistocles ; Lady
Dolly had learned the art, or rather had had the
power born in her, and forgot, as naturally as
birds moult in autumn, her sins, her follies, her
offences, and her friends.

Only one thing she never forgot, and
that was a wound to her vanity — and no one
ever looked at her when her daughter was
nigh.

ZourofP, who did not know ' society talked,'
stil! felt abashed before the presence of his
wife ; he felt as Louis of Hungary felt-when
he saw the celestial roses in the lap of that
saintly queen to whom Madame ISTelaguine
compared Yere.

Since the day when her mother's name had
been spoken between them, he had never seen
his wife alone one moment, and never had
fairly met her glance.

Yet when they were in the same room in
society his eyes followed her as they had never
done before, wistfully, sombrely, wonderingly.
Jeanne de Sonnaz said to herself : ' He will end
as le mari amour eux,' and so thinking spoke to
him one morning early, when he was sitting in
that little yellow boudoir, with all its Chinese
idols, and Chinese work, which was so curiously
unlike all the rest of the dark old hotel of the
Renaissance, which a Due de Sonnaz had
built under Francis I. With all her cleverest
tact she brought uppermost the name of Correze,
and dropped little hints, little suggestions,
harmless yet pregnant, as she leaned back in
her low chair, smoking a cigarette with her
cup of coffee.

Zouroff grew irritated at last, but he did
not know how to express his irritation without
appearing absurd in her sight, or provoking
her laughter.

My dear, you must be blind not to see
that there is some sentiment between Vera and
this lyric Bossuet, who made your piano his
pulpit,' she continued, as he muttered something

not very intelligible. ^ When he refused
to come to Svir you might have known. What
singer without a motive refuses a mountain of
roubles ? Besides, he was at Ischl. I did
not tell you — why should I tell you — but
he serenaded her adorably, he climbed to impossible
altitudes to get her flowers ; he
went away in the oddest, most abrupt,
fashion. My dear Sergius, you are a brute,
a bat, a mole '

Pshaw ! the man is only a mime, a mime
with a thrush's pipe,' said Zouroff, with rough
scorn. ' Do you suppose she would descend
'

C^est convenit' interrupted Madame
Jeanne ; ' Oh, c'est convenu. Your wife is the
pearl of her sex, she is a second Madame Sainte
Elisabeth, all the world knows that ; when we
see her at dinner we expect an angel to fill her
glass with wine of Paradise ; oh yes, you cannot
suppose I mean the slightest indiscretion
in her. Vera is incapable of an indiscretion,
so incapable, that in a less beautiful woman
such extreme goodness would make her utterly

uninteresting ; but still, for that very reason
she is just the sort of person to cling to an
idea, to preserve a sentiment like a relic in a
silver box ; and I have always heard, if you
have not, that Correze is her idea, is her relic'

Zouroff listened gloomily ; he did not as yet
believe her, yet a dark sense of jealousy began
to burn in him as slow matches burn ; a little
spark slowly creeping that in time will fire a
city. It was scarcely jealousy so much as it
was offence, and irritated incredulity, and masterful
possession stung by idea of invasion.

But as yet he believed nothing ; he smiled
a little moodily.

Your imagination runs away with you,' he
said curtly. ' Vera was sixteen years old when
I married her ; English girls, ma chere, do not
have affairs at that age, even if, at the same
hour in France, Cupid creep behind the lexicons
and missals.'

Jeanne de Sonnaz was angry in her turn.
When she had been sixteen at her convent she
had been very nearly causing a terrible scandal
with a young lieutenant of Chasseurs, whom

her powerful family succeeded in having discreetly
ordered to Africa ; she had not thought
that Sergius ZourofiP knew aught of that silly
old story.

^ I did not speak of Cupid or of anything so
demoralising and demode,^ she said carelessly.
I know there was some story", I remember it
very well, something romantic and graceful of
Correze and your wife, when she was a girl — a
very young girl; I think he saved her life, I
am not sure ; but I know that she thinks him
a guardian angel. Pray did you know that
it was his interposition that sent Noisette back
to Paris that day of our fancy-fair ? '

Zouroff swore a savage oath. 'What accursed
interference ; what insolent audacity !
Are you sure ? '

Correze is as insolent as if he were a prince
of the blood. More so, for they must please to
reign but he reigns to please — himself,' said
Madame Jeanne with a little laugh. ' Did yon
never know that of Noisette? how stupid
men are ! I guessed it and I found it out.
Women always can when they choose find out

anything. Correze is always taking the part
of knight to your wife ; he kills the dragons
and chases the robbers, and is always there
when she wants him ; did he not save her from
the storm off Yillafranca ? '

Zonroff paced to and fro the room to the
peril of the hrimhorions and bric-à-brac. There
was a heavy frown on his brows ; he remembered
the storm of Villafranca only too well
since it had preceded the song of the ' Golden
Cup.'

I do not believe it,' he said doggedly, for
he did not.

So much the better,' said his friend drily.

I always notice,' she added after a little
pause, ' that very cynical and sceptical people
(you are very sceptical and very cynical) never
do believe in a simple truth that stares them in
the face. I am not saying the least harm of
your wife — where is the harm ? She is of an
exalted temperament ; she takes life like a
poem, like a tragedy ; she is a religious woman
who really believes in sins just as our peasantry
in " la Bretagne bretonnante " believe in spu-its

and saints ; lie will never do any harm whatever.
But for that very reason she shut her
relic up in her silver box and worships it at
home. Correze is always worshipped, though
not always so spiritually. No one ever worships
you, my dear, you are not of that order
of men. Why do you look so angry? Yon
should be thankful. It is very nice that your
wife should admire a relic ; she might, you
know, be dragging your name across Europe at
the coat tails of a dozen young dragoons, and
though you could shoot them, no doubt, that
is always very ridiculous. It is so impossible
for husbands at any time not to look ridiculous.
You must have looked very so when Correze
was singing that song ; oh, I shall regret to
the last day of my life that I was not there ! '

Madame Jeanne leaned back and laughed
aloud, with her hands behind her head and her
eyes shut.

Zouroff continued to pace to and fro the
little pretty crowded chamber.

You will break some of my idols,' she said
when she had done laughing. ^ I hope I have

not broken one of your idols ? How could one
ever suppose you cared for your wife ? '

It is not that said Zouroff roughly ; he
was shaken, disturbed, enraged ; he did not
know what to think, and the vanity and the
arrogance that served him in the stead of pride
were up in arms.

^ Of course, yes ; it is that,' said Madame
Jeanne coolly ; ' I always wondered you were
so indifferent to her; she is so handsome.
And I always thought that if she ever loved
anyone else you would be madly in love with
her once more, or rather much more than you
were at first.'

Zouroff made a gesture so savage as he
motioned her to silence, that even her tongue
ceased for a moment its chatter.

One must not say too much ' she thought,
or he will go and do something premature.'

What does it matter,' she said, consolingly
; ' a woman who is so much left to herself
as Vera is, will be certain to find some
compensation for all you deny her. You
clumsy Baltic bear ! you do not understand

women. Believe me it is very dangerous to
marry a mere girl, a child, hurl all her illusions
and all her modesties away in one month,
and then leave her all alone with the reflections
you have inspired and the desires j^ou have
awakened. I am no moralist, mon ami, as
you know, but that I do say. It is true ten
thousand times in ten years — and ten thousand
times the result is the same. Were the Princess
Zouroif to have a lover, Correze or any
other, you could not complain. It would
simply be the natural sequence of your own
initiations. As it is, you must be thankful that
she is Madame Sainte Elisabeth. You are not
more ridiculous than the world is ; mothers
screen their daughters from every hint and
every glimpse of impropriety, and then they
marry them and think no harm can come of it.
Can a bishop's blessing muzzle senses once
celles, passions once let loose ? Yera is faithful
to you as yet. But if she were not, could
you blame her ? Can you expect a woman of
her years to live the life of a nun when you
have treated her as if she were a fille dejoie'?

VOL. III. N

Be reasonable. You cannot tear the skin offa
peach, and then complain that it does not
retain its bloom. Yet that is what you and all
men do do. It is unutterably absurd. Someone
will do it with my Berthe and my Claire,
and I shall hate the some one ; for I love my
little girls. Yes, I do ! While you know very
well that she is '

You preach very eloquently ! ' said Zouroff,
with his face flushed and his thick eyebrows
drawn together.

I preach what I know,' said his friend ;
what I have observed as I say a thousand
times ten thousand times — men teach lubricity
and expect chastity. It is really too ridiculous.
But it is what we call the holiness of
marriage. Now, will you please to go away?
Paul has a " fusion " breakfast of all the
parties, and I want to dress.'

But '

Go away ! ' said Madame Jeanne, imperiously,
with a little stamp of her slipper.

Zouroff, who even to his own autocratic
master was seldom obedient, took his leave.

and went. She lead made his blood hot with
rage, his head dull with suspicion. He threw
himself into his carriage and drove through the
streets of Paris in moody reflection. Uttered by
a virtuous woman, the words he had heard
would have made no more impression than any
court sermon that he had to sit throughout and
hear in an imperial chapel ; but spoken by
Jeanne de Sonnaz they smote him hardly.

A better emotion than was usual with her,
had moved her in speaking them, a sense of
justice towards the absent woman whom she
had yet all the will in the world to destroy ;
and the bitterness of them was an unwilling
witness from a femme galante to which
he could not attach either favouritism or
prejudice, and so weighed on him and smote
him heavily. A rebuke even from S. John of
the Golden Mouth would have left him callous
and scoffing, but a condemnation from the
lips of one of the companions of his sins and
follies — one of the worldliness of this world —
made him wince under its justice; and he
knew that his sins against his wife were

N 2

heavier and grosser than even Jeanne de 
knew or guessed.

The sullen remorse that had brooded in
him ever since the day on the terrace at Villa-franca
deepened and darkened over him.
There was cruel and coarse blood in his veins,
the blood of a race that through long centuries
had passed their lives in passion, in
tyranny, and in deeds of violence, denying no
impulse, fearing no future. But there was
manliness in him also, though weakened,
depraved, and obscured ; and this manliness
made him feel a coward beside Vere.

A curious jealousy took possession of him,
which was half hatred and half remorse. He felt
like one of those princes who own a classic and
world-renowned statue, and shut it in a cabinet,
and never care to look at it, yet who being
menaced with its loss, suddenly rise to fury,
and feel beggared. Not because the classic
marble was any joy or marvel to themselves,
but because the world had envied it to them
vainly, and it had made their treasure-house
the desired of others. He suddenly realised

that the loss of his wife would, like that of the
statue, make him poor in the eyes of Europe,
and leave his palaces without their chief ornament.
He did not, as yet, believe himself
menaced. Like most men of vicious lives, he
was never deceived as to a woman's innocence.
He knew his wife to be as innocent
as the little dead children she had borne in
her bosom. But how long would she be so ?

And if she ceased to be so, truth, by those
often untrue lips of Jeanne de Sonnaz, had told
him that the fault would lie at his own door,
that he would reap as he had sown.

As he drove through the streets amidst the
noise of Paris, he saw nothing of the glitter
and the movement round him — he saw Vere in
her white childish loveliness, as he had seen
her on her wedding night.

That evening, when he returned to make
his toilette for a great dinner at the Russian
Embassy, he was gloomy, perplexed, irresolute.
It was towards the close of the season ; the
evening was hot ; the smell of the lilacs in the
garden filled all the air ; over where ruined

St. Cloud lay there was a mist that seemed full
of rain and thunder.

For the first time for months he bade the
women ask his wife if she could receive him in
her room, and he entered it. Yere was standing
beneath the picture of Gerome ; she was
already dressed. She wore white velvet, a stuff
which she preferred, and whose subtle shades
of white it would have been the delight and
the despair of Titian and Paul Veronese to
reproduce on canvas or on panel. She wore
the great Russian Order of St. Catherine.
About her throat she had coils of pearls, and
under these hung the medallion of the moth
and the star.

Zouroff approached her with a roughness
that concealed an unusual nervousness. His
eyes fell on the necklace, and his anger, that
was half against himself and half against her,
seized on the jewel as a scapegoat.

Who gave j^ou that ? ' he said, abruptly.

She answered :

I think I ought not to say. When you
asked me long ago I did not know.'

Your singer sent it you. Take it off.'

She hesitated a moment, then unclasped it.
She believed in the old forgotten duty of
obedience still.

Give it to me.'

She gave it him.

Zouroff trevor it on the ground, and set his
heel on it, and stamped the delicate workmanship
and the exquisite jewels out of all shape
and into glittering dust.

Vere did not move a muscle. Only her
face grew cold like a stone mask with unutterable
scorn.

A Princess Zouroff does not need to go to
the properties of a theatre for her jewels,' he
said, in a thick, hoarse voice. ' As I have
treated that jewel, so I will treat the man, if
ever you let him enter your presence again.
You hear ? '

I hear.'

All colour had gone from her lips, but her
face remained cold and calm.

Well ? ' said her husband, roughly, already,
in a measure, ashamed of his violence, as the

diamond star covered the carpet beneath his
feet with sparkling atoms.

What do you want me to say ? I am your
wife, and you can offend me in any way, and I
cannot resent it. There is no use in saying
what I think of that.'

He was silent, and in a measure subdued.
He knew very well that his violence had been
cowardly and unworthy, that he had disgraced
his name and place, that he had been a coward
and no gentleman. His new-born sense of fear
and of veneration of her struggled with his
incensed vanity and his irritated suspicions.

Vera,' he muttered, only half-aloud. ' Before
God, if you would let me, I could love
you now ! '

She shuddered.

Spare me that, at least ! '

He understood, and was silenced. He
glanced at her longingly, sullenly, furtively
The shattered jewel lay at his feet.

What is that singer to you ? ' he said,
abruptly.

A man who honours me. You do not.'

Were he only of mj rank I would insult
him, and shoot him dead.'

Vere was silent.

What do you say ? ' he muttered, impatient
of her silence.

He is of your rank, and he can defend
himself. His hand is clean, and so also is his
conscience.'

Will you swear he is no lover of yours ? '

Her eyes flashed, but she took the book of
prayer lying on her table, kissed it, and said :

I swear that, certainly.'

Then she laid the book down, and with
an accent he had never heard from her, she
turned suddenly on him, in a passion of indignation
that transformed her coldness into fire.

How dare you P how dare you ? ' she said,
with a vibration in her voice that he had never
heard there. ' Now that you have done me the
last insult that a man can pass upon his wife,
be satisfied, and go.'

Then she put her hand out, and pointed to
the door.

He lingered, dazed and fascinated by that

new power in her glance, that new meaning in
her voice.

Women change like that when they love,'
he said to her aloud. ' Are you not of the
new school, then ? You know very well
you have no fidelity from me. Why should
you be faithful to me ? They say you need
not be.'

She still seemed to him transform-ed and
risen above him ; her fair face had the glow of
holy scorn of just wrath still on it.

Are your sins the measure of my duty ? '
she said, with unutterable contempt. ' Do you
think if it were only for you, for you, that I
were decent in my life and true to my obligation,
I should not years ago have failed, and
been the vilest thing that lives ? You do not
understand. Have you never heard of self-respect,
of honour, and of God ? '

The words touched him, and the look upon

her face awed him for an instant into belief

in her and belief in heaven; but against his

'instinct and against his faith the long habit of

a brutal cynicism and a mocking doubt prevailed,

and the devil in him, that had so long
lived with the vile and the foolish of his world,
drove him to answer her with a bitter sneer.

Your words are grand,' he said to her,
'and I believe you mean them. Yes, you do
not lie. But those fine things, my princess,
may last so long as a woman is untempted. But
so long only. You are all Eve's daughters ! '

Then he bowed and left her. He hated
himself for the thing he had said, but he
could not have stayed the devil in him that
uttered it. If his wife betrayed him that night
he knew that he would have no title to condemn
her; yet he thought, as he went from
her presence, if she did — if she did — he would
slit the throat of her singing-bird, or of any
other man, if any other it were.

Vere stood erect, a sombre disgust and
revolt in her eyes. Her husband had said to
her, ' thou fool ! all sin alike; do thou likewise.'

In a few moments she stooped and raised
the fragments of the jewels and the twisted
and broken goldsmith's work. It was all
shattered except the sapphire moth.

She shut the moth and all the shining brilliant
dust in a secret drawer of her jewel-case,
then rang for her women. In another twenty
minutes she entered her carriage, and drove in
silence with her husband beside her to the
Rue de Grenelle.

'^ Le Prince et la Princesse Zoiiroff ! ' shouted
the lackeys, standing in a gorgeous line down
the staircase of the Embassy.

It was an April night when the necklace of
the moth and the star perished under the heel
of Zouroff; there were two months more
through which the life in Paris lasted,
for Zouroif adored the boulevards, even in
summer months ; the asphalte had a power to
charm him that even the grass of his forest
drives never rivalled, and the warm nights of
spring and early summer found him driving
down the Champs Elysees to and fro his various
haunts, his carriage lamps adding two stars
the more to its long river of light.

Coming home in the full daylight from his

pleasures he would at times meet his wife
going out in the clear hours of the earls forenoon.
He asked her once roughly where she was
going, and she told him, naming the poorest
quarter on the other side of the Seine.

Why do you go to such a place? ' he asked
her as she stood on the staircase.

There are poor there, and great misery,'
she answered him reluctantly ; she did not care
to speak of these things at any time.

And what good will you do ? You will be
cheated and robbed, and even if you are not,
you should know that political science has
found that private charity is the hotbed of
all idleness.'

'When political science has advanced
enough to prevent poverty, it may have the
right to prevent charity too,' she answered
him, with a contempt that showed thought on
the theme was not new to her. 'Perhaps
charity — I dislike the word — may do no good ;
but friendship from the rich to the poor must
do good ; it must lessen class hatreds.'

Are you a socialist ? ' said Zouroff with a

little laugh, and drew back and let her pass
onward. They were the first words he had
spoken to her alone since the night he had
destroyed the necklace, and even now they
were not unheard ; for there were half a score
of servants on the stairs and in the vestibule
below. Vere went out to her little brougham
in the fresh air of the warm lilac-scented morning
as the clock struck ten.

Her husband took his way to his own set
of rooms, rich with oriental studies and weapons,
and heavy with the fumes of his tobacco. He
thought of what his sister had said of S. Elisabeth
and the roses of Paradise ; he thought too
of what Jeanne de Sonnaz had said. His wife
was greatly changed.

She seemed to him to have aged ten years
all suddenly ; not in the fair beauty of her
face, but in her regard, in her tone, in her
look. Was she like the young royal saint of
Hungary, or was she like all women, as he
knew them? He had the careless, half-conscious,
but profound belief in depravity that is
the note of the century; he thought all women

coquines. That his Avise Alas different to the
rest he had believed; but that she was incapable
of deceiving him he was in no way sure.
Sooner or later they all went the same road, so
he thought. He began to doubt that she told
him the truth as to these errands of her morning
hours ; his sister believed in them indeed,
but what should his sister know, who was never
out of her bed till noon was past ?

Yere had no physical fear, and at times she
penetrated into the darkest and roughest quarters
of Paris ; the quarters that belch out
those hidden multitudes that make revolution
anarchy, and shatter in dust and blood the
visions of patriots. But she was safe there,
though once she heard one man say to another,
Diantre ! what a sight it would be, that lovely
head on a scaffold.' She turned and looked at
him with a smile : ' I think I should know how
to die, my friend ; are you quite sure that you
would ? '

As this worst form of suspicion, that of
the tyrant who trembles, grew upon him, he
did what he knew was low and vile and beneath

him — he had her watched in these daily hours
of absence. He excused his vigilance to those
who had the task by the expression of his
fears for her safety from the rude and ferocious
classes amongst whom she went. They brought
him the weekly report of all she did, minute by
minute, in all its trifling details ; the courage
and the self-sacrifice of that thankless labour,
the self-devotion and patience of that charity,
were before him in a chronicle she would never
have written herself. He was astonished ; he
was ashamed. The superstition that underlies
the worldly wisdom of the aristocratic
Russian, as it permeates the kindly stupidity of
the Russian peasant, began to stir in hieland
trouble him. He began to think she was
a holy creature. Though he had no faith, he
had that vague religious fear, which often
survives the death of all religious beliefs with
those who have been educated in strict rituals,
as he had been.

When June came they went to Felicite. It
was the same thing every year. The world
went with them. To her it seemed always as

VOL. III.

if they were perpetually on the stage before an
audience ; the audience varied, but the play
was always the same.

She would have given ten years of her life
for a few weeks' rest, silence, solitude, with
plain living and high thinking,' and time to
watch the clouds, the showers, the woodlands,
the v/ays of birds and beasts, the loves of the
bees and the flowers. But she never had one
day even to herself. There was always on her
ear the murmur of society ; always, like the
shadow on the sun-dial, some duty that was
called pleasure, obscuring each hour as it came.

It \Yas a bright Norman summer, the weather
clear and buoyant, the country a sea of apple-blossoms.
Once or twice she got away by
herself, and went to the little cluster of cabins
on the head of the cliffs beyond Villerville.
The old woman was there — always knitting,
always with a white cap and a blue lineji gown,
against the wall of furze.

The lark is dead,' she said, with a shake of
the head. ' It was no fault of mine, my
Princess; a boy with a stone one day — ah!

all ! — how shall I tell the gentleman when he
comes? He has not been yet this summer;
he was here in midwinter — oh, quite midwinter
and he said he was going away into the
north somewhere. Jesu-maria ! the heaps of
cent-sous pieces he gave me to take care of
that lark ! '

The shrewd old woman under the white roof
of her cap watched the face of her ' Princesse.'
I want to know if she cares too she thought.
But that beautiful angel could not fail to beloved.'


Vera went away slowly through the high
grove, even under the shade of the apple-blossoms.
How long ago, — it seemed long asa
century — since she had been the child listening,
with her heart in her eyes, to the song
of the lark that was dead !

Her husband said to her sharply that day,
after her return, ' Where were you this morning
? You were hours away.'

I drove to Villerville,' she answered him.

There is a shrine near there, I think ? '
added Mdme. Jeanne, with apparent simplicity.

() 2

The sombre thoughts of Zouroff caught her
insinuation.

I know of no remarkable shrine replied
Vere, who did not imagine any double meaning
in the words. ' There is none nearer than
Val de Grace.'

Her husband was silent. The Duchesse
rose, and hummed a little song then being sung
by Jane Hating : Vobis voulez vous moquer de
moi.

This year Mme. Jeanne stayed at Felicite.
Why not ? She had her little girls Berthe and
Claire with her, and her husband came now
and then, and would come for a longer
time when the bouquets of pheasants would
begin to fall in the drives of the park.

'Pourquoi ^^cfs? ' she had said, when Zouroff
had begged her to stay in his house, instead of
taking a villa at Trouville.

'You would not last year,' he said, with a
man's stupidity.

Last year was last year,' said the Duchesse
drily ; and she came over and had all the south
wing of the chateau for herself and her Berthe

and Claire and their governesses. She was
really fond of her children.

The papers of that day spoke of Correze.
He was in Stockholm.

That is far enough ; she cannot have met
him,' thought the Duchesse. ' Villerville must
be a pilgrimage of remembrance. There are
women who can live on memories. It must belike
eating nothing but ices and wafers. A hon
bouillon and a little burgundy is better.'

Vere had given her word to her husband
and her oath ; she never supposed that he
could doubt either. If Correze had come
before her in that time she would have said to
him with loyal firmness, ' I must not see you ;
my husband has forbidden me.' She was
steadfast rather than impassioned ; honour was
the first law of life to her; that love should
stoop to tread in secret ways and hide in secret
places seemed to her as shameful, nay grotesque,
as for a sovereign to hide in a cellar or
flee in disguise. The intrigues she saw perpetually,
in which her world spent its time, as
the spiders theirs in weaving webs, had no

savour, no sweetness, for lier. Its roots
were set in treachery or cowardice — in either,
or in both. All the tenderness that was in
her nature Correze had touched ; all her gratitude
and all her imagination were awakened
bj him; she knew that the sorrow of a love
that might have been sweet and happy in their
lives was with them both, in sad and hopeless
resignation. Yet if he had come before her
now she would have said to him, ' I cannot
see you, it would be disloyal.'

For the old lovely quality of loyalty, which
day by day is more and more falling out from
the creeds of men and women, was very strong
in her; and failure in it seemed to her like
shame, last of all evils.'

To Jeanne de Sonnaz this was very droll. So
droll that it was impossible for her to believe
in it. She believed in realism, in the mouldy
cheese and the pewter can; she did not believe
in Ruy Bias. She watched Yere narrowly, but
she failed to understand her.

How the affair drags ! ' she thought, with
some impatience. ' Can they really be the

lovers of romance who separate themselves
by a thousand leagues, and only love the more
the more they are divided ? It is droll.'

So she kept the snake of suspicion alive and
warm in his bosom.

You were wrong,' said Zouroff with some
triumph to her ; ^ you were wrong. The man
is in Norway and Sweden.'

I may be,' said the Duchesse meditatively.
But people come back from Norway and
Sweden, and I never said, you will remember,
that he was more to your wife than her knight,
her ideal, her souvenir. I never meant more
than that. Wait until he shall return, then
you will see.'

Then he told her how he had destroyed the
necklace. For years he had been in the habit
of telling her such things, and he now sacrificed
his wife to that habit of confidence in another
woman.

You see you were wrong ' he added ; ' had
she borne any sentiment towards him would
she have seen his jewels destroyed ? She is
not spiritless.'

No, she is not spiritless,' said Madame
Jeanne thoughtfully. ' No, certainly she is
not that. But, in the old houses of the
Faubourg, Sergius, I meet a phantom of the
past that we know nothing about ; a phantom
that is made a deity and rules their lives like
their love of Henri Cinq ; a mere ghost, but still
potent to omnipotence, and we know nothing
about it; they call it Principle. I suppose
your wife may keep that old denote ghost by
her too, and may be ruled by it. I have heard
of such things. Oh, we have no principle, we
have only convenience and impulse, and act
either one or the other. But I assure you
such a thing exists.'

Scarcely in a woman,' said ZourofF with a
contemptuous laugh.

' Sooner in a woman than a man, for that
matter. But of course it will not last for ever.
Your wife is human, and she will not pardon
you that ruined locket.'

She said nothing, or very little.'

Said I ' echoed Madame de Sonnaz with
scorn, ' you are used to us, and to your creatures.

Do you think a woman of her temperament
would scream as we, or swear as
they do, would go into hysterics, or would
tear your beard ? '

'You seem to admire my wife,' he said
with irritation.

Jeanne de Sonnaz smiled. ' You know I
always did. I admire her as one admires
Racine, as one admires the women of Port
Royal, the paintings of Flandrin, the frescoes
of Michael Angel o. It is quite unattainable,
quite unintelligible to me, but I admire dumbly
and without comprehension. Only I told you
that you never should have married a saint,
and you never should. I am sorry you destroyed
her medallion. It was brutal of you,
and bourgeois.'

And she will remember it,' she added,
after a pause, as she gathered up her silks,
with which she was working an altar screen
for her parish church at Ruilhieres, ' be very
sure of that. Vera is not a woman who
forgets. I should box your ears, shake you,
and laugh at it all next day, but she would

be ]massive and yet never forget, nor forgive.
Chut ! There she is ! '

Vera at that moment entered the room in
which Madame Jeanne was working ; her husband
moved with a guilty consciousness away,
but she had heard nothing.

Princesse, tell me,* said Madame de
Sonnaz, ' do you forgive easily ? I think not.'

^ Forgive ? ' said Vera absently. ' Is there
any question of it ? It is for those who offend
to ask me that.'

Do you hear, Sergius ? ' said his friend
with a little laugh. 'I should like to hear
your mea culpa.'

For the first time an angry doubt came into
the mind of Vera, the doubt that her husband
spoke of her with Jeanne de Sonnaz. She looked
at them both quickly and haughtily, then said
very clearly :

'If Monsieur Zouroff know anything that
he desires me to pardon he can speak for
himself without an ambassadress, and without
a listener. I came to ask you to allow Berthe
and Claire to come out with me on the sea.'

How good you are to those children, but
you will inoculated them, with your own sea
phrenzy,' answered the duchesse with a little
laugh. « Of course they may go.'

Zouroff had already gone from the room,
angry with his friend, more angry with his
wife. Madame Jeanne rose a little impetuously,
dragging to the ground the artistic
embroideries of the shield she was working.

Vera,' she said, with candour in her voice
and honesty in her regard, ' do not be angry.
I am so old a friend of Sergius — he has told me
how he tore off your locket and destroyed it.
I am so sorry ; so very sorry ; so is he. But,
alas ! men are always the same ; they are all
brutes we know, and — Vera — he is very jealous
of your singer.'

Vera's face grew very stern.

Has he commanded you to speak to me on
his behalf?'

No, my dear — not that ; he would scarcely
do that in plain words. But I am an old
friend, and I am sorry. Of course it is too
absurd ; but he is very jealous. Be careful ;

men of his race have done mad and cruel
things in their time. Do not provoke him.
Do not see Correze.'

You mean well, madame,' said Yera intones
of ice. ' But you err in taste and wisdom,
and I think your zeal outstrips your
orders. I scarcely think even my husband
can have charged you with his threats tome.'


Threats ? who spoke of threats ? A warning
'

'A warning then, but none the less an
insult. You are in my house, so I can say
nothing. Were I in yours I would leave it.
Your children are waiting in impatience —
excuse me.'

Madame Jeanne looked after her as she
went through the glass doors on to the sea-terrace,
where the pretty little figures of Berthe
and Claire were dancing to and fro in the sunlight.
Madame Jeanne drew her tapestry-frame
towards her, and proceeded to fill in the
lilies of S. Cunigonde. She smiled as she
bent her head over the frame.

If I have ever known my sex,' she thought
' if I have ever known my sex, a word will
go over the north sea, and Correze will come
from his Norwegian summer to a Norman one,
and then — and then — there will be droll things
to see. It is like watching the curtain rise
in the Ambigu — there is sure to be melodrama.'


Melodrama amused her ; amused her more
than comedy. She had no belief in quiet
passion or quiet grief herself, no more than
she had in quiet principles.

Vera went out to sea with the little children,
and in the mellow sunshine and the sweet
orchard-scented air her face was dark with
anger and with disgust, and her heart heaved
in a bitter rage and rebellion.

Her husband spoke of her to another
woman — discussed her acts with another man's
wife ! ' Oh the coward, the coward ! ' she said
very low between her set teeth ; it was the
blackest word that her language held. That
he should have broken her medallion and insulted
her with doubt, was insult enough fora

lifetime. But that he should relate the
affront, and breathe the suspicion, to another
woman seemed to her the very last baseness of
life.

If he were here ! ' she murmured, with a
sudden newborn consciousness in her, as her
eyes filled with scalding tears, and her heart
heaved with indignation. For the first time
an indefinite yearning rose in her to place her
hand in the hand of Correze, and say ^ avenge
me ! ' Yet had he even stood before her then
she would not have said it, she would have
bidden him go and leave her.

For what Madame Jeanne called a phantom
was always beside her in her path — the
phantom of old-world honour, the wraith of
dead heroical days.

She leaned against the rail and watched
the sea run by the vessel's side, and felt the
quiet slow tears of a great anguish fill her eyes
and wet her cheeks.

Do not cry : you are too pretty to cry,'
said little Claire, who was a soft and tender
child ; and Berthe, who was older and cleverer

and harder, said, ' You should not cry ; it
spoils the eyes.' Then she added reflectively,
Maman ne lettre jamais.'

The small yacht they were in ran with the
breeze through the sweet fresh air. It was a
nautical toy, perfect in its way, that had been
given to Vere by her husband when the estate of
Felicite was settled upon her ; the children had
wanted to go to the Laches Noires and search for
mussels, and the little ship skirted the coast
as lightly as a sea-gull, the merry little girls
scudding about its deck like kittens and climbing
its cordage like squirrels, while their
mother — their mother who never cried — remained
in the garden of Felicite with a cigar
in her teeth, her person stretched full length
in a low-hung silk hammock, a circle of gentlemen
around her, and amidst them her host, so
charmed by the dexterity of her coquetteries,
and so diverted by the maliciousness of her
pleasantries, that the old passion, which a
dozen years before she had awakened in him,
perhaps the worst, as it was in a sense the
strongest and most durable, he had ever known.

revived in him sufficiently for jealousy, and
held him by her side.

It was low water when they reached that
part of the Vaches Noires which lies underneath
what is called the desert. The strangely
shaped rocks towered above, beyond, the sea
was blue and smooth, the sand was wet, the
children's equally fishing promised well. A
little boat took them off the yacht to the
uncovered beach, and Berthe and Claire, with
naked little legs, and their forks shaped like
the real fisher folk's, and their bright hair
flying, forgot that they were little aristocrats
and Parisiennes and became noisy joyous?,
romping, riotous children, happy in their sport
and the fine weather. At that part of the
rough shore there was no one near except some
peasants digging for their livelihood, as the
little girls were digging for play, at the silvery
hermits' holes in the sands. There were fetes
at Vulgate which kept the summer crowd that
day from the distant rocks. Berthe and Claire,
agile as they were, were no match for the
agility of the lords of the soil, and the pastime

absorbed and distracted them. Yere, seeing
them so happy, left them in the care of her old
skipper, who was teaching them the mysteries
of the sport, and sat down under the sombre
amphitheatre of the rocks.

She was fond of the children, but this day
their shouts and their smiles alike jarred on
her ; she had learned for the first time that it
was with their mother that her husband discussed
her acts and thoughts. She sat quite
alone in a sheltered spot, where the slate of
the lower formation had been hollowed by the
winter waves at high tides into a sort of niche ;
she thought of the day when, older in years
than these little children, but younger in heart
than even they were now, she had come on
these shores in her old brown holland skirts.
It was just such weather as it had been then ;
clear, cloudless, with a sunlit sea, and an atmosphere
so free from mist that the whole line of
the far-reaching coast, now become so familiar
to her sight, was visible in all its detail, from
the mouth of Seine to the mouth of Orne.

Her heart was very weary.

VOL. III. p

The distant laughter of the little children
borne to her ear by the wind, jarred on her.
Where were the use of honour and good faith ?
They smelt sweet, like a wholesome herb, in her
own hand, but in all her world none set any
store on them. She was free to throw them
aside if she chose. She would be more popular,
find more sympathy, nay, to her husband
himself would seem more human and more
truthful if she did so. The sense of life's
carelessness, impotency for good, and frightful
potency for evil, weighed on her like a
stone. Her husband had said to her that
women were only loyal till they were tempted ;
was it so ? Was honour so poor a thing ? she
thought. In dark old Bulmer the now dead
woman had taught her to think honour a swordlike
Britomart's, that in a maiden's hand might
be as potent and as strong as in a knight's.
What was the poor frail empty thing that bent
at a touch and broke P She thought what they
called honour must surely be no finer or better
thing than a mere dread of censure, a mere
subserviency to opinion ; a thing without substance

or soul, a mere time-service and
cowardice.

A fisherman came by her with his load
of mussels and little eels going on to Bougeval.
He pointed up above her head and said, in his
Froissart-like accent :

There will a broken neck up yonder, unless
our Lady interferes.'

Vere, alarmed for the children, who were
out of sight, looked upward ; she saw a man
coming down the precipitous cliffs from the
country above.

Her heart stood still ; her blood ran cold ;
she recognised Correze.

The fisher stood staring upward; the descent
was one which the people themselves
would never have attempted ; where the face of
the dark stone was a sheer declivity, broken
into sharp peaks and rough bastions, on which
there seemed scarce a ledge for a sea-bird to
perch on, Correze was descending with the surefoot
that in his boyhood had let him chase the
ibex and the boudequin of the Alps of Dauphine
and Savoy, and had let him in later years hunt

p 2

the steinbock of Stjria and Carinthia in its
highest haunts. Yere, risen to her feet, stood
like the fisherman gazing upward. She was
like stone herself; she neither moved nor cried
out ; she scarcely breathed. She looked upward,
and in those few moments all the
horrors of death passed over her.

Was it an instant, or an hour ? she never
knew. One moment he was in the air, hanging
as the birds hang to the face of the
cliff, beneath him only the jagged points
of a thousand pinnacles of rock : the next
he stood before her, having dropped lightly and
easily on the sands, while the peasant gasping,
muttered his paternosters in incoherent awe.

Correze was very pale, and his lips trembled
a little ; but it was not the perilous descent of
the rocks that had shaken him, it was the look
which he saw on her face. If he had dared ;
nay, had she been any other woman, he
would have said, ' You cannot deny it now ;
you love me.'

Their eyes met as they stood together on the
same coast where they had first seen one another,

when he was gay and without sorrow,
and she was a child. They knew then that
they loved each other, as they had not known
it when he had song in the Paris salon :

Si vous davies que je vous aime,
Surtout si vous davies comment —

For between them there then had been doubt,
hesitation, offence, uncertainty; but now the
great truth was bare to them both, and neither
dreamed of denying it.

Yet he only said as he uncovered his head,
Forgive me, Princesse ; I fear I startled you.'

You startled me,' she answered mechanically.
' Why run such a frightful danger 9 '

It is none to me ; the rocks are safer than
the ice-walls. I was above and I saw you ;
there was no other way.'

The fisher had shouldered his creel and was
trudging homeward; he paused abruptly, he
stood before her still bareheaded, he was very
pale.

Without being conscious what she did she
had seated herself again on the ledge of slate,

the sea and the shore blended dizzily before
her eyes.

Correze watched her anxiously, pitifully;
his courage failed him, he was afraid of this
woman whom he loved, he who had been
always, in love, victorious.

Have I displeased you ? ' he murmured
humbly. ' I have come straight from Norway ;
I thought I might take one hour on this coast
before going to Paris ; I heard that you were
here. I have been an exile many months '

She stopped him with a gesture.

I will not affect to misunderstand, there is
no good in affectation ; but do not speak so tome.
I cannot hear it. I thank you for your
courage at Yillafranca, I am not ungrateful ;
but we must not see each other — unless it be in
the world.'

You did not say that at Yillafranca.'

My husband had not then said it to me.'

Correze moved and faltered a little, as if he
had been struck a blow.

You obey Prince Zouroff ! ' he exclaimed
with disdain, and petulance, and passion.

I obey the word I gave Prince ZourofiP.'

Silence fell between them.

Vere was very pale ; she was still seated ;
there was a sort of faintness on her ; she had
no time for thought or resolution, she only
clung by instinct to one of the creeds of her
childhood, the creed that a promise given was
Sacred.

Correze stood beside her checked, mortified,
chafed, and humbled. He, the most eloquent,
the most ardent, lover of his time, was mute
and wounded, and could find no word at the
instant that could speak for him. He was
struck dumb, and all the vivid imagining, the
fervent persuasiveness, the poetical fluency
that nature had given to him and art had perfected,
fled away from him as though they had
never been his servants to command, and left
him mute and helpless.

Yere looked away from him at the blue
shining sea.

'If you think of me,' she said slowly, 'il
you think of me as you thought when you sang
the Coupe door, you will go now.'

With, no other word ? '
My life is hard enough,' she murmured ;
do not make it harder.'

There was an unconscious appeal in the
words that, from a woman so proud and so
silent, touched him to the quick. All his
passions longed to disobey her, but bis tenderness,
his chivalry, his veneration, obeyed.

I told my husband not long ago that you
honoured me,' she added in a low voice. ' Do
not let me think that I deceived myself and him.'
Correze bent his head.

I will never deceive you,' he said simply,
and at any cost I will obey you.'

He looked at her once ; her eyes were still
gazing away from him at the sea. He lingered
an instant, then he laid on her knee some 
he had gathered in the brooks
above, and left her; across the wet sands
and the disordered detritus of the beach his
light swift step bore him quickly to the edge
of the murmuring sea. There was a boat
there, an old brown rowing boat, and its owner
was mending nets on its bench.

In another few moments the old boat was
pushed in the water, the fisherman willingly
bent to his oars — Correze also was rowing —
with the helm set for Honneur. When he was
far away on the water he looked back, but
then only : Vere sat motionless.

He had been beside her," he whom an hour
earlier she had longed for as an avenger, and
she had driven him away.

She had been true to the false, to the
unfaithful faithful.

The man whose genius had been the one
solace and pleasure of her life, whose beauty
and whose sympathy and whose chivalry were
as a sorcery to her, who would have put his
whole fate in her hands as he had put the
myosotis, had been there beside her to do with
as she chose, and she had sent him from her.

Her husband had said, ' women are true
till they are tempted.' She had been tempted
and had been strong, strong enough not even
to say to him, ' Avenge me.'

The sun had sunk low, the late day grew
grey, the dusky sea ran swiftly and smoothly,

soon the terraces and towers of Felicite rose insight
through the twilight mists. The little
children, tired and sleeping, lay curled quietly
on their cushions at her feet : she felt weak
and weary as if from some long combat, and
her heart ached — ached for the pain she
caused, the pain she bore. She stretched her
hand over the rails and dropped the forget-me-nots
in the fast running sea.

She would not keep a flower of his now that
she knew

She saw the blue blossoms tossed for a
moment on the water and then engulfed. ' I
do not want them,' she thought, ' I shall
never forget ; it will be he who will forget.'

For she thought so, with that humility of a
lonely soul which is deemed so proud only
because it is so sad.

He would go into the world, be the world's
idol, and forget. But she would remember till
she died. And even at this consciousness a
sense of guilt came over her, a sense of shame
burned in her. She loved this man who was
not her husband — she, a wife. To her conscience

and her honour, both unworn and endued,
even so much as this seemed a treachery to her
word and an uncleanliness. ' Do I grow like
the others ? ' she mused, with a sort of horror
at herself; the others, the women of her world,
who made intrigues their daily bread. ' my
angel Raphael, you shall not fall nor I ! ' she
murmured, half aloud, as the sea swept on its
foam the little blue blossoms, and her eyes grew
blind and her heart grew faint.

Fall into the slough of abandoned passions,
into the dishonesty of hidden loves, into the
common coarse cowardice of an impure secresy ?
ah never, never ! She felt cold, sick, weary, as
she left the little road under the shadow of the
walls of Felicite, and ascended the stone steps
that mounted from the sea to the garden. But
she moved firmly and with her head erect.

Honour is an old-world thing ; but it smells
sweet to those in whose hand it is strong.

It was nearly nine ; the shadows were dark,
a low pale yellow line where the sun had gone
down was all that was left of day. The little
girls, sound asleep, were carried away from the

boat by their women. The first gong was
sounding that summoned the guests of the
house to dinner. She was dressed quickly, and
went down to the drawn grooms ; there was a
shade like a bruise under her eyes, and her
lips were pale ; otherwise she looked as
usual.

Jeanne de Sonnaz, greeting her with effusion,
kissed her and thanked her for the children's
happy day.

Yere sat opposite her husband through the
dinner, which was always a banquet. Her eyes
were tired, but there was a steady light in them ;
something heroic and invincible, that made
the grave beauty of her face lille that of
a young warrior's. No one saw it. They
only thought that she was tired, and so more
silent than usual.

The evening wore on its way ; to her it
seemed endless ; there were many people staying
in the house ; it was such an evening as
the first that she passed at Felicite, when she
had watched society with wondering gaze, asa
bright comedy. Jeanne de Sonnaz, with a

dress of red and gold, and some of lier grand
rubies on, sparkled like a jewel, till lier ugly
face seemed radiant and handsome. She sang
songs of The and of Judic ; she played impromptu
a scene of Feline Beaumont's ; she
was brilliant and various as her manner was,
and she sent a shower of mirth on the air that
was to others as contagious as a laughing gas.
What a pity she tires herself so much by the
sea or on it,' she said of Vere to Sergius Zou-off.
' It makes her so silent and so morne in
the evening.'

He muttered something like a suppressed
oath, and went to his wife.

You look like a statue ; you leave others
to do all your duties for you; you sweep through
the rooms like a ghost. Why cannot you rouse
yourself, and laugh and dance ? '

Vere made him no answer.

Laugh and dance in public, and in stealth
betray him ? To do that would have made him
content, herself popular.

The night wore itself away in time ; she
never well knew how ; it closed somewhat

earlier than usual, for the morrow was the first
day of shooting, and Madame Jeanne had
bade them rise with the lark. Yere, instead of
going to her room, went out into the gardens.
The night was cool, fragrant, soundless, except
for the murmur of the sea.

To laugh and wear a false or a foolish face
that is all he asks of me ! ' she thought bitterly.
If her husband could have seen her
heart as it ached that night, if he could have
known that only out of loyalty to him she had
cast the myosotis from her hand into the
sea, would he not only have told her she was
an imbecile, and was too fond of tragedy, and
he was no Othello to be jealous of a humble
handkerchief !

Would he not have said, ' Look around,
and do like others.'

It was between one and two o'clock ; the
stars were all at their brightest, except where
clouds hung over the sea to the north and
obscured them ; the chateau was quiet behind
her ; an irregular yet picturesque pile that
grew sombre and fantastic in the shadows

while in its casements a few lights only gleamed
here and there through the ivy.

Yere stood and looked at the waves of the
channel without seeing them. The world
seemed empty and silent. Never again would
she hear the voice that had first come to her
ear on those shores — never again — except in
some crowded salon or across some public
theatre.

She shuddered, and went within. The
silence and the solitude were too like her
destiny not to hurt her more than even the
^ vain laughter of fools.' It was the first time
that the peace of nature and of night seemed
a reproach to her. For though innocent of
any act unworthy or disloyal to herself, she felt
guilty, she felt as if some poison had fallen in
that golden cup which she strove to keep pure.
To her a thought, a desire, a regret, were
forbidden things, since she was the wife of
Sergius ZourofP.

One glass door was open, and some lamps
were burning, for the servants had seen that
she remained on the terrace, and two or three

of them, yawning and sleep', stood in the
antechambers awaiting her entrance.

She went np the staircase, past those
bronze negroes, with their golden torches,
which had lighted her childish steps on her
first night at Felicite.

There were two ways to her own chamber.
One way, the usual and shortest one, was encumbered
by some pictures and statues that
were beings moved to another corridor. She
took the longer way, which led through the
body of the house to the left wing of it, in
which her own rooms were, by her choice, forsake
of the view down the sea-coast and northward.


Going this way she passed the stately
guest-chambers which had been allotted to the
Duchesse de Sonnaz.

The lamps in the long gallery burned low ;
her footfall made no sound on the carpet ; she
passed on as silently as the ghost to which her
husband impatiently likened her. She-was
thinking neither of him nor of her guests ; she
was thinking how long her life in all likelihood

would be since she was young, and how lonely.
She was thinking, 'he bade me keep myself
unspotted from the world ; it shall never be he
who lowers me.'

Suddenly a strong ray of light shone across
her feet. She was passing a half-opened door
a door that had been shut with a careless
hand, and had reopened. The curtains within
were parted a little ; as she passed, she could
not tell why, her eyes were drawn to the mellow
light shining between the tapestries.

It was the door of Jeanne de Sonnaz.
Through the space Vera saw into the room,
and saw her husband.

For a moment she made a step forward to
enter and front them. The blood leaped into
her face ; all the pride in her, outraged and
disgusted, sprang up in arms under that last
and worst of insults. Then with a strong effort
she thrust the door to, that others should not
see what she had seen ; that she should screen
his dishonour, if he would not ; and passed on
unseen and unheard by those within to her own

VOL. III. Q

room. When lie reached it she trembled from
head to foot, but it was with rage.

She came of a bold race, who had never
lightly brooked insult, though she had long
borne its burden patiently, because duty was
stronger with her than pride. She sat down
and drew paper and pens to her, and wrote
three lines :

Either 1 or the Duchesse de Sonnaz leave
Felicite tomorrow before noon.

(Signed) ' Vera, Princess Zoueoff.'

She sealed the note, and gave it to her
woman for the Prince.

You will give it to Ivan ; he will give it to
his master in the morning,' she said, as they
were leaving the room. She was still careful
of his dignity, as he was not. That night she
did not sleep.

At sunrise they brought her a letter from
her husband. It said only, ' Do what you
Release. You cannot suppose I shall insult my
friend for you. — ZorKOFF.'

His friend ! ' said Vere with a bitter

smile. She recalled memories of lier life in
Paris and at Svir ; recalled so many hints, so
many glances, so many things that she nat
attached no meaning to, which now were quite
clear as day. She remembered the warning of
Correze.

He too must have known ! ' she thought ;
and her face burned to think that the man
who loved her should be aware of all the outrage
passed on her by the man who owned her.

The Prince asks an answer,' they said, at
her door.

There is no answer,' said Vere, and added,
to her women, ' bring me a little tea, and then
leave me.'

They thought she wished to sleep, and
suspected nothing else. Left to herself she
gathered up some needful things with her own
hands, the first thing she had ever done for
herself since the old simple days at Buhner.
She put together the jewels her own family
had given her ; shut the shattered necklace of
the moth and the star up with them in a
casket, and put on the plainest clothes she

Q 2

lead. She was ready to leave his house now
and for ever. She would take nothing with
her that was his or that had been hers by his
gift. Of the future she had no clear thought ;
all that she was resolute was, that no other
night should find herself and Jeanne de Sonnaz
under the same roof.

All the house was quiet. No one had risen
except herself. She waited, because she did
not choose to go out like one in hiding, or
ashamed, from her own home. She intended
to leave the place in full daylight and publicity.
The world could say what it liked, but
it could not then say she had left secretly, and
the shame would be for those who merited
it. Without and within all was still. The sea
had scarce a sound, no breeze stirred in the
trees, the silvery haze that heralded a hot day
was over land and water. She stood at the
window and looked out, and a quiet tranquillity
came over her. She was about to leave it
all for ever, all the pomp and the splendour,
all the monotony and the feverishness, all the
burden of rank and the weariness of pleasure.

She would soon be alone, and poor. She was
not afraid. She would go into the dim, green
German country, and live in some man-forgotten
place, and get her bread in some way.
She was not afraid. Only all the world should
know where she went, and why. All the world
should know she was alone.

She stood beside the open casement with
the dog beside her ; he would be her sole companion
in the loneliness to which she would
go. Correze — she thought of Correze, but,
with the sternness which is apt to exist in very
pure and very proud natures, she thought only
if he come to me when I live alone he too will
be a coward ! '

And as a coward she would treat him, she
thought ; for her heart was but half awake
still, and of passion she yet knew but little,
and what she knew she feared as a thing
unclean.

Suddenly her door was burst open; her
husband entered ; his eyes were bloodshot, his
face was dark with fury.

Are you mad ? ' he cried to her, as he saw

her travelling jewel-case and the locked valise,
and casket.

She looked at him with a grand dignity
upon her face, as though she saw something
leprous and loathsome.

I gave you your choice,' she said in a
voice that vibrated with restrained wrath.
You took your choice.'

She pointed to his letter that lay open on
the table.

^ And I tell you that neither you nor she
shall go out of my house ! ' he swore with a
great oath. 'You shall receive her, smile on
her, sit at the same table with her, please her
in a]l things as I do. She is the only woman
that I never tire of, the only woman that contents
me '

Tell Paul de Sonnaz so ; not me.'

Her husband's face grew terrible and
hideous in the convulsions of its rage.

He ! he is not a fool like you, he knows
what the world is and women are. By Christ,
how dare you ? — how dare you speak to me of
him or her? I am my own master, and I am

yours. Sooner than let you insult my friends
for one moment, I would fling you from this
window in the sea.'

'I know that. It is I who go, she who
remains.'

As God lives, neither of you shall go.
What ! you think I shall allow such a
scandal as my wife's departure from under
my roof 9—^ — '

I shall not allow such an outrage as for
Madame de Sonnaz to be under your roof with
me.'

She spoke firmly and in a low tone and
without violence. Something in her tone from
its very calmness subdued and abashed him for
an instant : but his hesitation scarcely lasted
more than that. ' Madame de Sonnaz is my
guest — my honoured guest,' he said passionately.
' I will not have her affronted. T will
not have a breath on her name. What, you
will make a scene that will ring through all
Europe — you will go out of my house when
my friends are in it — you will make yourself
and her and me the bye words of society !

Never, by heaven ! You are my wife, and as
my wife you stay.'

Vere, who was very pale and as cold as
though the summer morning were a winter's
day, remained quite calm. By great effort she
restrained her bitter rage, her boundless scorn.
But he changed her resolve in nothing. * I
stay, if Madame de Sonnaz go,' she said between
her teeth. ' If she stay, I go. I told
you to choose ; you did choose.'

Sergius Zouroff forgot that he was a gentleman,
and all that was of manliness in him
perished in his frenzy. He raised his arm and
struck her. She staggered and fell against the
marble of the console by which she stood, but
no cry escaped her ; she recovered herself and
stood erect, a little stunned, but with no fear
upon her face.

You have all your rights now,' he cried
brutally, with a rough laugh that covered his
shame at his own act. * You can divorce me,
Madame, " sous le toit conjugal' and " violence
personally" and all the rest ; you have all your
rights. The law will be with you.'

I shall not divorce you,' said Vere, while
the gi-eat pain of the blow, which had fallen on
her breast, ached and throbbed through all her
body. ' I shall not divorce you, I do not take
my wrongs into the shame of public courts ;
but — I go — or — she goes.'

An exceeding faintness came over her, and
she was forced to sit down lest she should fall
again, and the air around her grew dark and
seemed full of noise. Zouroff rang loudly for
her woman.

The Princess fell against the marble — an
accident — she has fainted,' he said hurriedly,
and he escaped from the chamber. In a few
moments he was with Jeanne de Sonnaz. In
the utter weakness of his submission to the
domination which she had obtained over him
he had grown so used to seek her counsels in
all things, and at all times, that he told her
all now. Her rage extinguished his own as
one fire swallows up another.

Oh, imbecile ! ' she screamed at him. ' If
Paul hear — if the world know — I am lost forever
! '

He stared at her with gloomy amaze.

Paul knows ; society too — they always have
known '

O madman ! ' she yelled at him, with her
shining eyes all flame. ' They have known certainly,
but they could still seem not to know,
and did s(^ Now if once it be a public scandal
Paul will act, and the world will be with him !
Good God ! If your wife leave the house forme,
I am ruined for ever ! '

I have given her what will keep her still.*

You are a brute, you were always a brute.
That is nothing new. But your wife you do
not know. She will get up though she be
dying, and go — now she once knows, now she
has once said that she will not stay where 1 am.
Wait, wait, wait ! you imbecile ! Let me
think ; your wife must not go. For her sake ?
no ! good heavens no ! — for mine.'

Sergius Zouroff stood passive and uncomplaining
under the torrent of her abuse.

A scandal, a story for the papers, a cause
for the tribunals ; good heavens ! have you and
I lived all these years only to fall into such

helpless folly at the last ? ' she shrieked at him.
Why did you have me come here ? Paul will
take Berthe and Claire away, if he do no more.
Oh you madman ! why did you not show me
your wife's note before you went to her ? She is
right, she is always right, and you were a brute
to strike her ; but she wants her divorce, of
course, why not ? she loves Correze, and she is
a woman afraid of sin. But she shall not go
she must not go ; I will go sooner '

You shall never go for her.'

I shall go for myself. You are a brute,
you are an idiot ; you understand nothing. I will
be summoned — Paul can be ill, or Ruilhieres
on fire — something, anything, so that no one
knows.'

You shall not go, you will humiliate me ;
she will think '

What do I care for your humiliation 9 I
care to avert my own. Pshaw ! Do you suppose
I would stay an hour in this house if your
wife were out of it? Do you suppose I would
risk my good name, and make myself a
scandal to the Faubourg ? Good heavens ! how

little you know me after all these years. I
shall obey your wife and go ; she is the soul of
honour in her own odd way. She will say nothing
if I go. My name shall not serve her asa
chisel to cut her fetters. Oh, what fools men
are, what dolts, what mules ! Why could you
not bring her note to me, and ask me what todo
? Instead, you must go and strike her ! Do
you suppose her women will not know ? An
accident ! Who believes in accidents ? All the
house will know it before noon. Oh imbecile !
You would marry a young saint, a creature from
another world — it was sure to end like this.
Go, go ! or my women will see you, and it will
be worse ; go, and in a minute or two I shall
send you word that Paul is dying. Go ! Thank
you ? I ? — no, why should I thank you ? I never
bade you be cruel to your wife or strike her ;
I always bade you treat her as a saint. She is

one, though how long '

I struck her because she insulted you.'
She was right enough to insult me ; she
is more right still when she insults you. Now

go!

»

With sullen subjection he went ; he learned
what gratitude was from the women of his
world. In half an hour's time there was some
confusion in the well-ordered household of
Felicite, for the Duchesse de Sonnaz, her children,
their servants and her own, were departing
in hot haste ; it was said that M. le Due
was lying ill of sunstroke at their chateau of
Ruilhieres, in the department of Morbihan.

Lying sick and blind on her bed, Vere
heard the sound of the horses' feet.

It is Madame la Duchesse who is leaving,'
said her maid, who from the other side of the
closed door had heard all that had passed between
Sergius Zouroff and his wife.
Vere said nothing.

It was the first day of shooting ; there was
a great breakfast, to which many sportsmen of
the neighbourhood came ; there were battues
on a large scale in the woods ; there were noise
and movement and the sound of many steps
throughout the chateau, and out on the terrace,
under her windows ; now and then she heard
her husband's voice ; then after a while all was

still ; there was the echo of distant shots from
the woods, that was all. The day wore away.
Her women told the ladies of the house party
that the Princess had a severe headache from
a fall.

Towards evening she rose, and was dressed.
The pain had lulled in a measure, and the
faintness had passed away. She wished to
avoid comment, to cover the departure of
Jeanne de Sonnaz. Under the pale yellow
roses of the bouquet at her bosom there was
a broad black bruise. The evening passed as
usual. The house party suspected nothing ;
Vere's women were discreet, and the surprise,
the sorrow, the bewilderment of Jeanne de
Sonnaz at what she had said were the sudden
tidings from Ruilhieres had been so natural,
that the few people who had seen her at her
departure had been deceived into believing those
tidings true. The evening passed smoothly ; a
little operetta in the little theatre filled two of
its hours, and if the mistress of Felicite looked
pale and spoke little, she often did that. Zou-off
never looked at his wife and never addressed

lier. But that also was not rare
enough to be any matter for notice.

Vere underwent the fatigue of the night
without faltering, though she was in physical
pain, and at times a sickly sense of faintness
came over her.

She was thankful when the men went to
the smoking-room, the women to their bed-chambers,
and she was free to be alone and
rest. On the table in her own room there
lay a letter. She shuddered a little, for she
recognised the loose, rude handwriting of
her husband. She was tired of pain and
of insult, and she had little hope of any other
thing.

She sat down and read it.

You have had your own way he wrote to
her. ^ The only woman whom I care for has
been driven away by you. Do not suppose
you have gained any victory ; you will pay the
cost of the affront you have dared to pass on
her. I shall not speak to you again if we meet
here a thousand times. I wish to avoid scandal
for the present at least, not for your sake,

but for hers. So I write to you now. You
were about to leave this house. You will leave
it. As soon as this circle of guests breaks
up, the day after tomorrow, you will leave it.
You will go to an estate of mine in Poland,
Warren and Ivan will accompany you, and
you can take your women of course. There
you will remain. If you wish to escape, you
can sue me for a divorce. Whenever you do
so, I shall not oppose it.

(Signed)
Sergius NicoLAiviTCH, Prince Zourofp.'

In one of the most desolate parts of the
country of Poland, there were vast estates of
the Princes Zoiiroff, conferred on them at the
time of the partition of that unhappy land
between Christian sovereigns. They were vast,
lonely districts, with villages few and scantily
populated ; immense plains of grain and grass,
and swamps of reedy wildernesses, and dim,
sandy forests of pines, straight, and colourless,
and mournful.

In the heart of all these — whose yield made
up no slight sum in the immense riches of the
Russian Princes who owned, and spent their
produce on the pavement of Paris and St.

VOL. III. B

Petersburg — there stood a large, lofty building,
wbicli had been once a fortified monastery,
and had served for a century as the scarcely
ever visited castle of the Zouroffs.

It was of immense extent. It had no
architectural beauty ; and, from its many
narrow windows there was no outlook except
on one side to the interminable woods of pine,
and on the other over the plains and marshes,
through which a sullen, yellow river crept.
Within, it was decorated as it had been decorated
by Ivan Zouroff at the time of the
abdication of Stanzas Augustus ; ZourofiFhaving
hanged the peasants on the pine trees, and
made the corn-lands red, before sunset and
harvest-time, with blood, and in such wise
pleased his imperial mistress.

From the gay, gorgeous interior, and the
sunlit gardens and sea terraces of the Norman
chateau, Series Zouroff sent his wife to this
place, amidst the desolation of a province,
then bleeding afresh from the terrorism that
strove to stamp out the Nihilists.

Vere left Felicite without protest. Felicite

was hers by settlement, but she did not urge
that fact. She accepted the commands of her
husband, and travelled across Europe in almost
unbroken silence, accompanied by the attendants
he had selected, by her women, and by
the dog Loris.

When she had read her husband's letter,
her first impulse had been to refuse, and to
disobey him ; to go away with her own jewels,
and no single thing of his, and gain her own
bread in some way in solitude, as she had intended
to do if Jeanne de Sonnaz had remained
in her house. Then, on later and calmer
thought, she accepted the banishment to
Poland. Her pride made her willing to avoid
all scandal, her principle made her deem it
still right to obey her husband. She had asked
him once to let her live on his estates, out of
the world ; she considered she had the request
granted, though in a savage and bitter way.
As to the condition that he made her return
dependent on — she lifted her head, and drew
herself erect, with the haughty resolve that she
was capable of when stung and roused. Sooner

R 2

than receive Jeanne de Sonnaz in her house,
or ever salute her as a friend, she said to herself
that she would live and die on the Polish plains.
She did not answer ; she did not protest or rebuke;
she neither wrote nor spoke to her husband
in the fortnight that followed ; she entertained
her guests with her usual calm, cold grace, and
when the last of them had left, and the day of
her departure arrived, she went away tranquilly,
as though she went of her own will, and in her
own way, taking the dog Loris.

Zouroff had not been surprised.

Though he could ill appreciate her character,
he did not misunderstand it. ' She may
break, she will never bend,' he thought, as
careful always of the outside observances of
courtesy, he bade her a courtly farewell before
his household.

I am his prisoner ! ' she thought, as a
week later she entered the austere gloom of
Szarisla. But sooner than release herself on
the terms he offered, she said in her heart
that Poland should be her tomb, as it had
been that of so many martyrs. Martyrs to an

idea, the world said of those. It would have
said the same of her.

To her mother, and her friends, and all
society, Sergius Zouroff explained that his wife
had long asked him to allow her to pass some
months on his northern estates, to establish a
school, and improve the moral condition of the
peasantry, and at last he had consented ; it
was an insanity", he added, but an innocent
one ; she was a saint.

Alas ! alas ! what has happened ? ' thought
his sister, ' what has happened ? Oh, why was
I not at Felicite ! '

But she was the only one who feared or
wondered — the Princess Yera had always been
so strange ; and she was a saint.

To Jeanne de Sonnaz alone Zouroff said,
with his gloomy eyes full of sombre ferocity,
Je vous venge.^

To her sister-in-law, and to the few to
whom she ever wrote, Yere said always, in her
brief letters, ' I am tired of the world, as you
know ; I am glad of this retreat. It is
desolate, and very dull, but it is peace.'

Madame Nelaguine, with her eyes sparkling
with rage, and all her little person erect in
indignant dignity, reproached her brother in a
torrent of rebuke and censure. ' I imagine
very well what happened,' she said to him.
•■ Yon would have Jeanne de Sonnaz under the
same roof with Vere.'

Respect my friend's name,' said Zouroff,
with savage authority, ' or you and I never
meet again. Vere is a saint, you say. Well,
she has her wish ; she goes into retreat.
Would it please you better if she were living
with Correze ? '

Correze — he is nothing to her ! ' said
Madame Nelaguine hotly.

Zouroff" shrugged his shoulders. ' Some
think otherwise,' he answered.

Yon are a brute, and you are a coward —a
malignant coward ! ' said his sister. ' You
outrage your wife in every way, and you must
even dare to soil her innocence with suspicion.'

If it be suspicion only time will show,' said
Zouroff. ' Go and live at Szarisla yourself, if
you pity my wife so much.'

But Madame Nelaguine, who loved the
world, and could not live without its excitements
and its intrigues, could not face that
captivity in the Polish plain, though all the
heart she had in her yearned towards her
brother's wife.

Will you imprison her all her life ? ' she
cried.

Zouroff answered with impatience and
fatigue, ' She will remain there until she
receives my friend with respect.'

You are a brute,' said his sister once more.

I protect Jeanne, and I avenge her,' said
Zouroff obstinately. He fancied that his
honour was involved in this defence of his
mistress.

Jeanne ! ' echoed his sister with unutterable
scorn. ' You might as well defend and
avenge your quadroon.'

But she knew very well that she might as
well seek to shake the Ural mountains at their
base as change the obstinacy of her brother.

Jeanne de Sonnaz had gained the empire over
him of a re-awakened passion ; the empire of a

strong woman over an indolent man; of a
mistress once deserted, and so doubly tenacious
of her hold. There was no beauty in her, and
no youth ; but she had the secret of dominion
over men. She cowed this tyrant, she subdued
this man, who, to the self-will of long self-indulgence,
had the moral feebleness and inertness
of the Slav temperament ; she railed at
him, jeered at him, commanded him, yet
fascinated him. He knew her to be worthless,
faithless, never wholly his, nor wholly anyone's,
yet she held him. ' After all, she is the
woman I have loved best,' he said to himself;
and believed it, because she had the gift of
exciting all that was worst in him, and subduing
his fierce impulses to her own will and
whim.

When he had married, Jeanne de Sonnaz,
who beyond all things valued her position, and
loved the world, had kept her peace because
she did not choose to jeopardise her name, or
gain the ridicule of her society. But she had
always said to herself, ' Je me vengeraiJ

She kept her word.

Vere was in her captivity at Szarisla ; and
the Duchesse de Sonnaz — moving from one
chateau to another, and entertaining circles of
guests for the shooting at their own mighty
place of Ruilhieres — said easily in the ear of
the two or three great ladies who were her
most intimate associates, that there had been
a scene at Felicite ; she had tried to mediate
between her old friend and his wife, but vainly,
so far as peace went; Zouroff had forbidden
the princess to receive Correze, and Correze
had been found there at evening in the gardens ;
oh, there was nothing serious — Vera was a
young saint — but all the same there had been
a scene, and Zouroff had sent his wife to
Szarisla.

Then the two or three whom she told told
others, and so the tale ran, and grew as it ran,
and was believed. The world was satisfied
that the Princess Zouroff was in penitence in
Poland.

I think they were lovers many years ago.
I remember, when she was a mere child, seeing
her in a boat with Correze ; she had come

from Havre with him; her mother was distracted.
I suppose Zouroff and the Nelaguine
knew nothing of it said the Princesse Helene
Olgarousky, who made one of the brilliant
autumn party at Ruilhieres where Zouroff was
not.

Be sensible, mon ami,' had said the
Duchesse Jeanne ; ' now your wife is away I
cannot receive you — it would not do. Oh, in
winter, when we are all in Paris again, you
may come and see Paul as usuaL But stay at
Ruilhieres you will not ; no — no — no. Three
times, No ! '

She had no beauty, and no youth, she had
no heart, and no conscience ; she had been his
friend for fifteen years, and he usually tired of
any woman in less than fifteen days. Yet
Sergius Zouroff" chafed at the interdiction to
stay at Ruilhieres, as though he were eighteen,
and she seen but an hour before ; and found
himself waiting with impatience for the moment
of his return to Paris, with a vague sense that
without this woman life was stupid, empty, and
purposeless.

He missed the goad to this senses and his
temper with which she knew so well how to
guide him, as the tamed elephant turned loose
misses the prick of the mahout's steel. But
she, who knew that the elephant too long left
to himself turns wild, and comes never again
to his mahout's call, took care not to leave
Zourofftoo much to himself. When the first
shooting party broke up at Ruilhieres, she
left Due Paul with some men to slay the
pheasants, and went, for the sake of little
Claire, who was not strong, to Arcachon and to
Biarritz.

There Zouroff went occasionally when she
would allow him. He went alone. He would
no more have dared to take the mulattoes or
any other newer toy within sight of Jeanne de
Sonnaz now, than he would have dared to take
them into his Czarina's presence.

He had insulted his wife, but he dared not
insult his mistress. She spoke to him often of
his wife.

'You cannot keep Vera in Poland all
winter,' she said one day in the fragrant

alleys of Arcachon while Bertie and Claire
played before them with little silk balloons.
I shall do so he said gloomily.

Impossible ! They will call you a tyrant,
an ogre, a fiend. You must have her in Paris.'

Not unless she receives you.'

Do not make me ridiculous, I beg of you,'
she said with some impatience. ' You mean,
if she will consent not to receive Correze.'

ZourofP was silent. He knew that he did
not mean that. But it was the fiction which
his ruler had set up between them.

That is why you have sent her to Szarisla,'
continued Jeanne de Sonnaz. 'All the world
knows that, though of course we put a fair face
on it. The idea of talking of her not receiving
me. If she did not receive me, Paul would
have to shoot you, which would have its
inconveniences — for you and Paul.'

She laughed a little, and impaled a blue
butterfly on the sharp point of her tortoiseshell
cone. Zouroff still said nothing ; a sort of
vague remorse touched him for a moment, as
little Claire, whose balloon was entangled in a

shrub, cried out, ^ Where is the princess ?
Why is she never with us now ? She would
get down my balloon. You are too cross.'

Zouroff released the toy, and said roughly,
Run to your sister, Claire, you tease us.'

Madame Yera never said I teased,' said the
child sullenly, with a pout, as she obeyed, and
joined her elder sister.

Where is Oorreze ? ' said her mother.

Nom emjpestel ' swore ZourofF, ' how should
I know where a singer may be ? '

It is very easy to know where a great
singer is. Comets are watched and chronicled.
He was shooting in Styria, at Prince Hohenlohe's,
last month. Why do you not know ?
Do you have no reports from Szarisla ? '

He is not there,' said Zouroff angrily. He
hated his wife, but he was jealous of her
honour, even though it would, in a sense, have
gratified him to be able to say to her, ' You
are no higher than the rest.'

He may not be there,' said the Duchesse
de Sonnaz carelessly. ' On the other hand, it
is not very far from Styria to Poland, and he

is singing nowhere in public this autumn.
Are your reports to be trusted ? '

Ivan would tell me anything,' said Zouroff
moodily. ' He writes me weekly of her health ;
he says nothing happens ; no one goes '

*Ivan is incorruptible, no doubt,' said
Jeanne de Sonnaz, a little drily.

What do you mean ? '

You are always asking me what I mean ?
I am no Sphinx, my dear friend, I am very
transparent. I mean, that since your wife is
there, it seems to me improbable that she does
not, or will not, see Correze '

Zouroff ground his heel on the turf with
impatience, but he kept silent.

I think it would be worth your while to
make sure that she does not see Correze. I am
quite aware that if they do meet, it will be
merely a knight meeting a saint, —

Pauvres couples, a I'ame haute,
Queene noble horreur de la faute
Empeche seule d'etre heureux.

and that he will —

Baise sa main sans la presser :
Comme im lis facile a blesser
Qui tremble a la moindre recourse

and all the rest. But still — if only as a moral
phenomenon, it might be worth watching, and
Ivan, on whom you depend, is, though a very
superior servant, still only a servant.'

What would you have me do ? Go myself?
'

'Yes, I think you should go yourself. It
would prevent people saying unpleasant things
or untrue ones. You must have your wife back
in Paris, or you must be very certain of all
that passes at Szarisla, or you may be made to
play a foolish part — a part you would not like
to play, when you have shut your wife up in it
for her safety.'

'Jeanne,' said Zouroff gloomily, with his
eyes fixed on the turf they were treading.
There is no one to hear, and we may speak
as we mean ; Vera does not return to me until
she consents to receive you ; there is no
question of her honour ; she will have that intact
as if she were in a convent ; she is made like

that ; she is no " lis facile a blesser'' she is
made of steel. She knows everything, and she
will no longer know you. To protect your
name I exile her. She may live and die in
Poland.'

She heard him, knowing very well that he
said the simple fact, yet her eyes grew angry,
and her teeth shut tight.

You are all imbeciles, you Eussians,' she
said contemptuously. 'You have only one
remedy for all diseases — Siberia ! It does not
cure all diseases ; Nihilism shows that. Correze
is your best friend, since you want to be free.*

If he set foot in Szarisla he shall be beaten
with rods ! '

Jeanne de Sonnaz, as they passed under the
tamarisk trees, looked at him coldly and
crossed her hands lightly on her gold-headed
cane as she leaned on it.

On my word I do not understand you.
Are you in love with your wife ? '

Jeanne ! '

I do not accept divided homage,' said his
friend with close-shut teeth ; * and jealousy is
a form of homage. Perhaps the truer form,'

One may be jealous of one's honour '

'You have none,' said Jeanne de Sonnaz
coolly. ' Your wife told you so long ago. You
have rank, but you have not honour. You do
not know what it means. My poor Paul does,
but then he is stupid and arrive. I think if
I told Paul to kill you, it might perhaps
arrange things — and then how happy they
would be, these

Purs amants sur terre egares ! '

Zouroff looked at her fixedly ; his face grew
anxious, sullen, and pale.

Jeanne, say out ; what is it you want me
to do?'

I want to reconcile your wife and you, of
course,' said Jeanne de Sonnaz, driving her
cane through the yielding turf. ' That, of
course, first of all, if possible. If impossible, I
would have you divorced from her. Things, as
they are, are ridiculous ; and,' she added, in a
lower breath, as the children and their balloons
drew near, running against the wind, ' and
they may in time compromise me, which I do
not choose to permit.'

VOL. III. S

Zouroif understood what she required of
him ; and he felt a coward and a brute, as his
sister had called him.

The lily might not be easy to bruise, but it
was easy to soil it.

Correze is certainly in Styria,' she added,
as the children joined them.

ZourofP stood looking down on the green
turf and the bright blossoms of the asters with
moody eyes ; he was thinking — what beast of
prey was ever so hard of grip, so implacable in
appetite, as a cruel woman? And yet this
woman held him.

He dared not disobey, because he could not
bear to lose her.

That autumn da', so sunny, balmy, and
radiant in the sheltered gardens and forests of
Arcachon, was winter at Szarisla. Sudden
storms and heavy falls of snow had made the
forests bare, the plains white ; the winds were
hurricanes, the thermometer was at zero, and
the wolves ranged the lonely plateaux and
moor-lands in bands, hungered and rash.
Szarisla in autumn was colder and drearier

than Felicite could ever be in mid-winter, and
the great, bare pile of the Castle buildings rose
black and sombre from out the unbroken
world of whiteness.

There was an equally unchangeable melancholy
around ; it was in the midst of a district
intensely and bitterly national; the Princes
Zouroff were amongst the most accursed names
of Poland, and the few, far-scattered nobles
who dwelt in the province would no more have
crossed the threshold of Szarisla than they
would have kissed the cheek of Mouravieff, or
the foot of the Gospodar. Yere lived in
absolute solitude, and knew that it was as
virtually also a captivity as was ever that of
Mary, or of Arabella, Stuart.

Of course she was the Princess Vera, the
mistress of Szarisla nominally and actually,
but none the less she knew that every hour was
watched, that every word was listened to, and
that, whilst there was obsequious deference to
all her commands, yet, had she expressed a
wish to leave the place, she would have been
reverentially entreated to await the wishes of

s 2

the Prince, and would not have found a man in
her stables bold enough to harness her horses
for her flight.

She had arrived there late one evening,
and, despite the fires, the lights, the torches
in the courts, the large household assembled
in the entrance, a chill like that of the catacombs
seemed around her, and she had felt
that living she entered a grave.

Szarisla was an absolute solitude. The
nearest town was a three days' journey of long,
bad roads ; and the town, when reached, was
an obscure and miserable place. The peasantry
were sullen and disaffected. The district was
under the iron heel of a hated governor, and
its scanty population was mute in useless and
gloomy resentment. She had no friend, no
society, no occupation save such as she chose
to make for herself; she was waited upon with
frigid ceremonial and etiquette, and she was
conscious that she was watched incessantly.
Many women would have lost their senses,
their health, or both, in that bitter weariness
of blank, chill, silent days. *

Vere, whose childish training now stood
her in fair stead and service, summoned
all her courage, all her pride, and resisted
the depression that was like a malady, the
lassitude that might be the precursor of mental
or bodily disease. She rode constantly, till
the snow fell; when the snow came, and
the frost, she had the wild young horses put
in the sleigh, and drove for leagues through
the pine woods, and over the moorlands. Air
and movement were, she knew, the only
true physicians. Little by little she made
her way into the homes, and into the hearts
of the suspicious and disaffected peasantry ;
it was slow work, and hard, and thankless,
but she was not easily discouraged or rebuffed.
She could do little, for she was
met at all times in her wishes for charity by
the adamantine barrier of 'the prince forbids
it ; ' she had no more power, as she
bitterly realised, than if she had been his
serf. But all that personal influence could do,
she did; and that was not little. She was the
first living creature who had borne the name

of Zouroff that had not been loathed and cursed
at Szarisla.

Personal beauty is a rare sorcery, and when
the fair face of the Princess Vera looked on
them through the falling snow in the forests,
or the dim light of their own wood cabins, the
people could not altogether shut their hearts to
her, though she bore the accursed name.

She was very unhappy ; wearily and hopelessly
so, because she saw no possibility of any
other life than the captivity here, or the yet
more arduous captivity of the great world, and
in her memory she always heard the song.

Si vous davies que je vous aime,
Surtout si vous davies comment !

But she would not let her sorrow and her pain
make slaves of her.

The wild and frequent storms of wind and
snow tried her most hardly, because they
mewed her in those gloomy rooms, and sunless
corridors, which had seen so much human
tyranny and human woe, and the long, black
nights, when only the howl of the hurricane
and the howl of the wolves were heard, were

very terrible ; she would walk up and down
the panelled rooms through those midnight
hours, that seemed like an eternity, and
wondered if her husband had wished to drive
her mad that he had sent her here. Her
French women left her, unable to bear the
cold, the dreariness, the loneliness ; she had
only Eussians and Poles about her. At times
in those lonely, ghastly nights, made hideous
by the moans of the beasts and the roar of
the winds, she thought of the Opera-house of
Paris ; she thought of the face of Faust. Then
in that emptiness and darkness of her life she
began to realise that she loved Correze ; began
to understand all that she cost to him in pain
and vain regret.

If she would receive Jeanne de Sonnaz she
could go back ; go back to the splendour, the
colour, the light of life ; go back to the world
where Correze reigned, where his voice was
heard, where his eyes would answer hers. But
it never once occurred to her to yield.

Now and then the truth came to her mind
that Sergius Zouroff had sent her to this

solitude not only as a vengeance, but as a
temptation. Then all the strength in her
repelled the very memory of Correze.

Would my husband make me like Jeanne
de Sonnaz/ she thought with a shudder of
disgust, ' so that I may no longer have the
right to scorn her ? '

And she strove with all her might to keep
her mind calm and clear, her body in health,
her sympathies awake for other sorrows than
her own.

She studied the dead languages, which
she had half forgotten, with the old priest of
Szarisla, and conjured away the visions that
assailed her in those endless and horrible
nights, with the sonorous cadence of the Greek
poets; and in the daytime, when the frost
had made the white world firm under foot,
passed almost all the hours of light sending her
fiery horses through the glittering and rarefied
air.

So the months passed, and it was midwinter.
Letters and journals told her that
the ga}^ world went on its course, but to her it

seemed as utterly alien as it could do to ans
worker in the depths of the salt or the quicksilver
mines that supplied his wealth to Prince
Zouroff. The world had already forgotten her.
Society only said, ' Princesse Vera is passing
the winter in Poland; so eccentric; but she
was always strange and a saint ; ' and then,
with the usual little laugh, Society added,
There is something about Correze.'

But the world does not long talk, even
calumniously, of what is absent.

Prince Zouroff was on the boulevards; he
gave his usual great dinners; he played as
usual at his clubs ; he entered his horses as
usual for great races ; the world did not
concern itself largely about his wife.

She was in Poland.

She committed the heaviest sin against
Society, the only one it never pardons. She
was absent. No one had even the consolation
to think that she had her lover with her.

Correze was singing in Berlin.

Madame Nelaguine, forcing herself to do
what she loathed, went across Europe in the

cold, wet weather as swiftly as she could travel,
and visited Szarisla.

She strove to persuade her sister-in-law to
accept the inevitable, and return to the Hotel
Zouroff and such consolations as the great
world and its homage could contain.

^ Be reasonable. Vera,' she urged, with the
tears standing in her keen, marmoset-like eyes.
^ My dear, society is made up of women like
Jeanne de Sonnaz. Receive her, what does it
matter ? It is not as if you loved your husband,
as if your heart were wounded. Receive her.
What will it cost you ? You need never even
see her in intimacy. Go to her on her day,
let her come to you on yours. Show yourself
half an hour at her balls, let her show herself
at your. That is all. What does it amount
to? what does it cost? Nothing.'

Little, no doubt,' answered Vere. ' Only
all one's self-respect.'

And she was not to be changed or persuaded.


'I shall live and die here, very likely,'
she said at last, weary of resistance. ' It

is as well as any other place. It is better
than Paris. Your brother has sent me hereto
coerce me. Go back and tell him that
force will not succeed with me. I am not a
coward.'

Madame Nelaguine, grieved and yet impatient,
shuddered, and left the bleakness and
loneliness of Vere's prison-house with relief,
and hurried home to the world and its ways,
and said impetuously and bitterly to her
brother, 'Do not darken my doors, Sergius,
while your wife is shut in that gaol of ice. Do
not come to me, do not speak to me. You area
brute. Would to heaven Jeanne de Sonnaz
were your wife ; then you would be dealt with
aright ! Are you mad ? do you wish to make
her faithless ? Can you think she will bear such
a life as that ? Can you leave a woman as young
as she without friends, lovers, children, and
expect her to change to snow, like the country
you shut her in ? — are you mad ? If she
shame herself there any way — any way — can
you blame her ? Can you take a girl, a child,
and teach her what the passions of men are, and

then bid her lead a nun's life just when she has
reached the full splendour and force of her
womanhood — — ? '

She is a saint, you say,' he answered with
a smile ; and he and his sister never spoke from
that hour. In the boudoir of the Faubourg St.
Germain his friend knew well how to surround
him with an influence which little by little
isolated him, and alienated him from all who
had the courage to speak of his wife.

Jeanne de Sonnaz had one set purpose, the
purpose which she had let him see in her at
Arcachon ; and until she should succeed in it
she suffered no hand but her own to guide him.

The lily might have a stem of steel, and
never be bent ; but it could be broken.

Soulless though it might remain in its
solitude amidst the snow, it should be broken ;
she had said it in her soul.

Ge que femme vent, homme veut,' was the
proverb as her experience read it.

All that there had been of manliness in
Sergius Zouroff's nature resisted her still in
this thing that she sought ; he still had a
faith in his wife that his anger against her did

not change ; in his eyes Vere was purity incarnate,
and he could have laughed aloud in
the face of suspicion. To ruin by open doubt
and calumnious accusation a creature he knew
to be sinless, seemed to him so vile that he
could not bring himself to do an act so base.

He sent her into captivity, and he kept her
there without mercy, but to hem her in with
falsehood, to dishonour her by affected belief in
her dishonour, was a lower deep than he could
stoop to, even at the bidding of his mistress.

That her solitude was the sharpest and
most terrible form of temptation he knew welland
he exposed her to it ruthlessly; willing
she should fall, if to fall she chose. But whilst
she was innocent, to assume and assert her
guilty was what he would not do. Nay, there
were even times, when the fatal drug of Jeanne
de Sonnaz's presence was not on him, that he
himself realised that he was a madman, who
cast away the waters of life for a draught of
poison, a jewel for a stone.

But he thrust aside the thought as it arose.
He had surrendered himself to the will of his
mistress. He had put his wife away for ever.

One day, when the snow was falling, a
traveller reached the gates of Szarisla.

He was wrapped in fur from head to foot ;
he wished to see the Princesse Zouroff.

No one sees her,' answered the guardian
of the gates ; ' it is the Prince's order.'

^ But I am a friend ; will you not take my
name to her?'

I will not. No one enters ; it is the
Prince's order.'

To the entreaties of the stranger, and to his
gold, the custodian of the entrance-way was
obdurate. In his boyhood he had felt the
knout, and he dreaded his master.

The stranger went away.

The next day was the Immaculate Conception.
At Szarisla the catholic religion was
permitted by a special concession of a French
princess Zouroff, and its functions were still
allowed by her descendants.

There was no other church for the peasants
than that which was part of the great building,
once the monastery of Szarisla. They all flocked
to it upon holy days. It was sombre and ill
lit, but gorgeous in Byzantine colour and taste
from the piety of dead Zouroff princes.

The peasantry went over the snow through
its doors ; the stranger went with them ; the
mistress of Szarisla was at the midday mass,
as well as the household.

In the stillness, after the elevation of the
host, a voice arose, and sang the Salutaris
Hostia.

A warmth like the glow of summer ran
through all the veins of Vere ; she trembled ;
her face was lifted for one moment, then she
dropped it once more on her hands.

The peasants and the household, awe-struck

and amazed, listened with rapt wonder to
what they thought was the song of angels;
they could not see the singer. Kneeling as
in prayer, with her face hidden, the mistress of
Szarisla, who was also the captive of Szarisla,
never moved.

The divine melody floated through the
dimness and the stillness of the lonely Polish
church ; the priest stood motionless ; the people
were mute ; some of them wept in ecstasy.
When it ceased, they prostrated themselves
on the earth. They believed that the angels
of Grot were amongst them.

Vere arose slowly and stood pale and still,
shrouded from head to foot in fur.

Sie looked towards the shadows behind the
altar. There she saw Correze, as she had
known that she would see him.

He came forward and bowed low. His eyes
had a timidity and a fear in the wistfulness of
their appeal to her.

They stood before each other, and were
silent.

Is this how you obey me ? ' her glance
said to him without words.

Forgive me,' he murmured aloud.

By this time the people had arise, and
were gazing at him, amazed to find him buta
mortal man.

Vere turned to the priest, and her voice
trembled a little ; ' You are not angry, father ?
Will you not rather thank this — traveller? —
he is known to me.'

In Latin the priest spoke his admiration
and his thanks, and in Latin the singer replied.

Yere looked at him, and said simply,
'Come.'

Correze obeyed her, and moved by her side.
He dared not touch her hand, or speak any
word that might offend her. He could see
nothing of her face or form for the black furs
that swept from her head to her feet. She
passed into the sacristy with a passing word to
the priest. She threw the heavy door close
with her own hands, and let the furs fall off
her in a heap upon the floor.

Then for the first time she looked at him.

Why do you come ? It is unworthy '

VOL. III. T

He moved as if a blow had been struck him,
his eyes, longing and passionate, burned like
stars ; he too cast his furs down ; he stood
before her with a proud humiliation in his
attitude and his look.

That is a harsh word,' he said simply ; ' I
have been in this district for weeks ; I have
seen you pass with your swift horses ; I have
been in your church before now ; when you
are imprisoned here do you think I could live
elsewhere, do you think I could sing in gay
cities ? For some months I knew nothing ; I
heard that you were on your Russian estates,
and nothing more ; when I was in Styria five
weeks ago, I heard for the first time that you
were in Poland. A man who knew your
husband spoke of Szarisla as no place for a
woman. Then I came. Are you offended ?
Was I vnrong? You cannot be here of your
own will ? It is a prison. When I rang at
the gates they told me it was the Prince's order
that you should see no one. It is a captivity ! '

Vere was silent.

You should not have come,' she said with

an effort ; ' I am alone here ; it was ungenerous.'


The blood mounted to his face.

Cannot you make excuse ? ' he murmured.
I know what Russians are ; I know what their
tyrannies are ; I trembled for you, I knew no
rest night or day till I saw the walls of Szarisla,
and then you passed by me in the woods in the
snow, and I saw you were living and well ; then
I breathed again, then all the frozen earth
seemed full of spring and sunshine. Forgive
me ; — how could I lead my life singing in
cities, and laughing with the world, while I
thought you were alone in this hotbed
of disaffection, of hatred, of assassination,
where men are no better than the wolves?
For the love of heaven, tell me why you are
here ! Is it your husband's madness, or his
vengeance ? '

She was silent still. He looked at her and
stooped, and said very low : ' You learned the
truth of Jeanne de Sonnaz. Was it that? '

She gave a gesture of assent. The hot
colour came into her averted face.

T 2

Correze stilled a curse in his throat, ' It
is a vengeance then ? '

'In a sense, perhaps she answered with
effort. ' I will not receive her. I will never see
her again.'

And your banishment is her work. But
why imprison yourself? If you resisted, you
would have all Europe with you.'

'I obey my husband,' said Vere simply,
and I am in peace here.'

In peace ? In prison ! We spoke once of
Siberia; this is a second Siberia, and he
consigns you to it in your innocence, to spare
the guilty ! Oh my God ! '

His emotion choked him as if a hand were
at his throat ; he gazed at her and could have
fallen at her feet and kissed them.

Noble people, and guiltless people, live
in Siberia, and die there,' said Vere with a
faint smile. ' It is not worse for me than
for them, and the spring will come sometime;
and the peasantry are learning not
to hate me ; it is a better life than that of
Paris.'

But it is a captivity ! You cannot leave it
if you would ; he does not give you the means
to pass the frontier.'

He v^ould prevent my doing so, no doubt.'

It is an infamy ! It is an infamy. Why
will you bear it, why will you not summon
the help of the law against it ? '

If a man struck you, woulrl you call in the
aid of the law ? '

No. I should kill him.'

When I am struck, I am mute : that is
a woman's courage ; a man's courage is vengeance,
but ours cannot be.'

Correze sighed : a heavy, passionate, restless
sigh, as milder a weighty burden.

'A man may avenge you,' he muttered.

'No man has any title,' she said a little
coldly. ' I am the wife of Prince Zouroff.'

A greater coldness than that of the ice
world without, fell on the heart of her hearer.
He did not speak for many moments. The
snow fell; the wind moaned, the grey dull
atmosphere, seemed between him and the
woman he loved, like a barrier of ice.

He said abruptly, almost in a whisper :
The world says you should divorce him ; you
have the right '

I have the right.'

Then sou will use it ? '

No — no,' she answered after a pause. * I
will not take an 3- public action against my
husband.'

He wishes you to divorce him ? '

No doubt. I shall be here until I do so.'

And that will be '

Never.'

Never ? '

She shook her head.

I think,' she said in a very low tone, ' if
you understand me at all, you understand that
I would never do that. Those courts are only
for shameless women.'

He was silent. All that it was in his
heart to urge, he dared not even hint. A great
anguish seemed to stifle speech in him. He
could have striven against every other form of
opposition, but he could not strive against this
which sprang from her very nature, from the

inmost beauty and holiness of the soul that he
adored.

The salt tears rose in his eyes.

You have indeed kept yourself unspotted
from the world ! ' he said wearily, and then
there was silence.

It lasted long ; suddenly he broke it, and
all the floodgates of his eloquence were opened,
and all the suffering and the worship that were
in him broke up to light.

Forgive me,' he said passionately. ' I^ay,
perhaps you will never forgive, and yet speak I
must. What will you do with your life ? Will
you shut it here in ice, like an imprisoned
thing, for sake of a guilty and heedless man, a
coarse and thankless master ? Will you let
your years go by like beautiful flowers whose
blossom no eyes behold? Will you live in
solitude and joylessness for sake of a brute who
finds his sport in shame ? Your marriage was
an error, a frightful sacrifice, a martyrdom,
will you bear it always, will you never take
your rights to liberty and light, will you never
be young in your youth ? '

I am his wife,' said Yere simply; ' nothing
can change that.' She shuddered a little as
she added : ' God himself cannot undo what is
done.'

And he leaves you for Jeanne de Sonnaz ! '

I rule my life by my own measure, not his.
He forgets that he is my husband, but I do not
forget that I am his wife.'

But why remember it ? He has ceased to
deserve the remembrance — he never deserved
it — never in the first hour of your marriage to
him.'

Vere's face flushed.

If I forgot it, what should I be better
than the wife of Paul de Sonnaz ? '

You are cruel ! '

^ Cruel?'

Cruel — to me.'

He spoke so low that the words scarcely
stirred the air, then he knelt down on the
ground before her and kissed the hem of her
gown.

I dare not say to you what I would say ;

you are so far above all other women, but you
know so Avell, you have known so long, that all
my life is yours, to use or throw away as you
choose. Long ago I sang to you, and you
know so well, I think, all that the song said. I
would serve you, I would worship you with the
love that is religion, I would leave the stage
and the world and art and fame, I would die
to men, if I might live for you '

She shook as she heard him, as a tall lily-stem
shakes in a strong wind ; she sighed
wearily ; she was quite silent. Was she insulted,
angered, alienated? He could not tell.
His ardent and eloquent eyes, now dim and
feverish, in vain sought hers. She looked away
always at the grey misty plain, the wide waste,
treeless and sunless, swept with low driving
clouds.

You knew it always ? ' he muttered at
length ; ' always, surely ? '

'Yes.'

The single word came painfully and with
hesitation from her lips ; she put her hand on

her heart to still its beating ; for the first time
in all her years she was afraid, and afraid of
herself.

Yes she said once more. ' I knew it lately
but I thought you never would speak of it tome.
You should have been silent always —
always ; if I were indeed a religion to you, you
would have been so. Men do not speak so of
what they honour. Am I no better than my
husband's mistresses in your eyes ? '

She drew herself erect with a sudden anger,
and drew the skirt of her gown from his hands ;
then a shiver as of cold passed over her, a sob
rose in her throat ; she stood motionless, her
face covered with her hands.

He wished he had died a thousand deaths
ere he had spoken. He rose to his feet and
stood before her.

Since the day by the sea that I gathered
you the rose, I have loved you ; where is the
harm ? All the years I have been silent. Had
I seen you in peace and in honour I would have
been silent to my grave. I have been a sinner
often, but I would never have sinned against

you. I would never have dared to ask you to
stoop and hear my sorrow, to soil your hand to
soothe my pain. I saw you outraged, injured,
forsaken, and sour rivals the base creatures
that I could buy as well as he if I chose, and
yet I said nothing ; I waited, hoping your life
might pass calmly by me, ready, if of any defence
or any use I could be. What was the harm or
the insult in that ? You are the golden cup,
holy to me ; he drinks from the cabaret glasses ;
can you ask me, a man, and not old, and with
life in my veins and not ice, to be patient and
mute when I see that, and find you in solitude
here ? '

He spoke with the simplicity and the
strength of intense but restrained emotion.
All the passion in him was on fire, but he
choked it into silence and stillness ; he would
not seem to insult her in her loneliness.

Yere never looked at him. All the colour
had left her face, her hands were crossed upon
her breast above the mark which her husband's
blow bad left there ; she stood silent.

She remembered her husband's words : ' All

women are alike when tempted.' For the
first time in her pure and proud life temptation
came to her assailing her with insidious
force.

What do you ask ? ' she said abruptly at
last. ' Do you know what you ask ? You ask
me to be no better a thing than Jeanne de
Sonnaz ! Go — my life was empty before ; now
it is full — full of shame. It is you who have
filled it. Go!'

These are bitter words '

They are bitter ; they are true. What is
the use of sophism ? You love me ; yes ; and
what is it you would have me do ? cheat the
world with hidden intrigue, or brave it with
guilty effrontery ? One or the other ; what else
but one or the other could love be now for us ? '

Then, with a sudden recollection of the only
plea that would have power to persuade or
force to move him, she added.

To serve me best — go back to Paris ; let
Jeanne de Sonnaz hear you in all your glory
there.'

He understood.

He stood silent, while the large tears stood
beneath his drooping eyelids.

I would sooner you bade me die.'

*It is so easy to die,' she said, with a passing
weary smile. ' If — if you love me indeed — go.'

'At once?'

She bent her head.

He looked at her long ; he did not touch
her ; he did not speak to her ; and he went.
The door of the church closed with a heavy
sound behind him.

His footsteps were lost upon the snow.

When the old priest entered the building
he found the mistress of Szarisla kneeling
before the altar.

She remained so long motionless that at
length the old man was frightened and dared
to touch her.

She was insensible.

Her household thought she had fainted
from the cold.

Ten days later Correze sang in the midnight
mass of Notre Dame. The face of the
Duchesse de Sonnaz clouded. ' C^est fine
imjjasse/ she muttered.

The winter went on its course and the
spring-time came.

Correze remained in Paris.

He sang, as of old, and his triumphs were
many, and envy and detraction could only
creep after him dully and dumbly. For the
summer he took a little chateau in the old-world
village of Marly-le-Roi ; and, there, gathered
other artists about him. The world of women
found him changed. He had grown cold and

almost stern ; amours he had none ; to the seductions
that had of old found him so easy a prey
he was steeled.

In him, this indifference was no virtue.
All women had become without charm to him.
The dominion of a noble and undivided love
was upon him ; that love was nothing but pain ;
yet the pain was sacred to him. His lips
would never touch the golden cup, but the
memory of it forbade him to drink of any
earthly wines of pleasure or of vanity.

His love, like all great love, was consecration.

'He will end in a monastery,' said the
neglected Delia's ; and Sergius Zouroff heard
them say it.

A sombre jealousy began to awaken on him
as it had awakened at the sight of the necklace
of the moth on the breast of Vere. What right
had this singer to be faithful to the memory of
his wife while he to his wife was faithless ?

Pur amant sur terre egare ! '

murmured Jeanne de Sonnaz again, with a little
laugh, when she saw Correze passing out of

the opera-house alone, and added in the ear of
Zouroif: ' How he shames you! Are sou not
ashamed ? '

Zouroff grew sullen and suspicious. He
began to hate the sight of the face of Correze,
or that of the letters of his name on the walls
of Paris. It seemed to him that all the world
was filled with this nightingale's voice. As
the horses of Correze passed him on the
Boulevards, as Correze entered the St. Arnaud
or the Milton, when he was himself in
either club ; when the crowds gathered and
waited in the streets, and he heard it was
to see Correze pass by after some fresh success
in his art, then Zouroff began to curse him
bitterly.

There was a regard in the eyes of Correze
when they glanced at his that seemed to him to
say with a superb scorn : ' I am faithful to
your wife. And you ? '

This hatred slumbered like a dull and sullen
fire in him, but it was a living fire, and the lips
of Jeanne de Sonnaz fanned it and kept it alive.
With ridicule, with hint, with conjecture, with

irony, one way or another she stung him a
hundred times a week with the name of Correze.

She is in Poland, he is in Paris ; what
can you pretend there can be between them ? '
he said to her once, in savage impatience.
Then she smiled.

Distance is favourable to those loves of the
soul. Did I not quote you Sully Prudhomme's
Purs amants sur terre egares ? '

Once in that spring-time Zouroff wrote one
line to his wife.

If you are tired of Szarisla you know on
what terms you can return to Paris ? '

He received no answer.

He was perplexed.

It seemed to him impossible that she could
have courage, patience and strength, to remain
in that solitude.

It is obstinacy,' he said. ' It is stubbornness
! '

It is love,' said Jeanne de Sonnaz, with a
little smile.

Zouroff laughed also, but he chafed,

Love ! for the wolves or for the Poles ? '

VOL. III. u

It is love,' said his friend. ' It is the
same love that makes Correze live like an
anchorite in the midst of Paris, which makes
your ivife live like a saint at Szarisla. It is
their idea of love, it is not mine or yours. It
is the dissipation of the soul. Have you never
heard of it ?

Aux dresses meme implies
Vous prefers vin deuil plus beau,
Et vos levies meme au tombeau
Attendent le droit d'etre unies.

When our poet wrote that he saw, or foresaw,
the tragic and frigid loves of your wife and
Correze. What can you do ? It is of no use
to swear. You cannot cite them aux trihimaux
for a merely spiritual attraction, for a docile
and mournful passion that is e>i cleuiL'

Then she laughed and made a little grimace
at him.

'You cannot keep your wife in Poland all
the same,' she said, seriously. ' It becomes
ridiculous. It is not she and Correze who are
so ; it is you.'

He knew that she meant what she had
meant at Arcachon.

She was that day in Lis house ; lie had
called there, she had little Claire with her
whom she had sent to play in the garden under
the budding lilacs ; she was about to fetch Due
Paul from the Union, being a woman who was
always careful to be seen often with her husband.
Meanwhile she was in her friend's
own suite of rooms in the Hotel Zouroff; she
was going about them, to and fro, as she talked.

I must write a note to leave for Nadine,'
she said as she went to his bureau. ' Why have
you quarrelled with Nadine ? It is so stupid
to quarrel. If one has an enemy one should
be more intimate with him, or her, than
with anyone else, and your sister is your
friend though she has an exaggerated adoration
of Vera, sympathy through dissimilarity,
the metaphysicians call it. del ! what have
you here ? All women's letters ! I will bet
you the worth of your whole entries for Chantilly
that the only woman whose letters are
absent from this coffer is your wife ! '

She had seen a large old casket of tortoiseshell
and gilded bronze. The key was in the

V 2

lock, it was full of notes and letters ; she had
pulled it towards her, turned the key, and was
now tossing over its contents with much entertainment
and equal recklessness.

It is too scandalous she cried, as she ran
her eye over one here and there. * If there
are not one-half of my acquaintances in this
box ! How imprudent of you to keep such
things as these. I never wrote to you ; I never
write. None but mad women ever write to
any man except their tailor. I shall take this
box home '

Zouroff, who only slowly awoke to the
perception of what she was doing, strode to the
bureau with a cry of remonstrance. * Jeanne !
what are you about ? ' he said, as he strove
to get the casket from her. ' There is nothing
that concerns you; they are all old letters,
those, very old ; you must not do that.'

Must not ? Who knows that word ? not
I,' said his friend. ' I shall take the box away.
It will amuse me while they put on my hair.
Novels are dull; I will send you this thing
back tomorrow.'

You cannot be serious ! ' stammered Zouroff,
as he tried to wrest the box from her.

I was never more serious,' said his visitor,
coolly. ' Do not scream ; do not swear. You
know I do what I like. I want especially to
see how my friends write to my friend. It is
your own fault ; I thought men always burnt
letters. I wonder if Paul has a box like this.
Adieu ! '

She went away, with the coffer in her
carriage, to fetch her husband on the Boulevard
des Capucines, and Zouroff dared not arrest
her ; and the casket of letters went home to the
Faubourg with her.

In the morning she said to him : ' They
were really too compromising, those letters.
You had no business to keep them. I have
burned them all, and Claire has got the coffer
for her doll's trousseau. I never thought much
of my sex at any time ; I think nothing now.
And, really, they should no more be trusted with
ink than children with firearms. Pooh !
why are you so furious? They were all old
letters, from half a hundred different people ;

you have nothing to do with any one of
the writers of them now; and of course I amas
secret as the grave, as discreet as a saint
pere.'

With any other woman he would have let
loose a torrent of abuse ; with her he was
sullen but apparently pacified.

After all they were old letters, and he could
not very clearly remember whose letters had
been shut away in that old tortoiseshell casket.

I thought men always burnt these things,'
said Jeanne de Sonnaz. ' But, indeed, if
women are foolish enough to write them they
deserve to be unfortunate enough to have them
kept. I never wrote to any man, except to
Paul himself — and Worth.'

You are a model of virtue,' said her companion,
grimly.

'I am something better,' said his friend.
I am a woman of sense. Apropos, how
long will this retreat in Poland last? It
cannot go on ; it becomes absurd. The world
is already talking. The place of the Princess
Zouroff is in the Hotel Zouroff.'

It cannot be her place said ZourofF,
savagely. 'She is — she is — obdurate still. I
suppose she is content ; the frost has broken,
the weather is good even there.'

Jeanne de Sonnaz looked him in the
eyes.

Weather is not all that a woman of twenty
requires for her felicity. The whole affair is
absurd ; I shall not permit it to go on. I say
again, what I said last year at Arcachon. It
may end in compromising me, and that I will
not have. You must take your wife back to
your house here, and live with her later at
Felicite, or you must prove to society that you
are justified in separating from her; one or
the other. As it is you are ridiculous, and I —
I am suspected. Faut enfin.'

Zouroff turned away and walked gloomily to
and fro the chamber.

I will not take her back,' he muttered.
Besides — probably — she would not come.'

He dared not say to his companion that he
could not insist on his wife's return without an
open scandal, since she would for ever refuse to

receive or to visit the Duchesse de Sonnaz, once
her guest and her friend.

Besides, probably, she would not come ! '
echoed Jeanne de Sonnaz, with a shrill laugh
that made his sullenness rage. ' My poor
bear ! is that all jon: growls and your teeth
can do for you ? You cannot master a
woman of twenty, who has nothing in the
world but what you gave her at your marriage.
Frankly, it is too ridiculous. You must make
a choice if you would not be the laughing-stock
of society ; either you must have your wife herein
Paris before all the world, and I will be the
first to welcome her, or you inst justify your
separation from her ; one of the two.'

I shall do neither ! '

Then, mon ami, I shall be very sorry
indeed, because we have been friends so long
but unless you do one or the other, and that
speedily, I shall be obliged with infinite regret
to side with your sister and all the House of
Herbert against you. I shall be obliged to
close my doors to you ; I cannot know a man
who is cruel to an innocent wife. There ! you

know I do what I say. I will give you a week,
two weeks, to think of it. Afterwards I shall
take my course according to yours. I shall be
very sorry not to see you any more, my dear
Sergius ; but I should be more sorry if the
world were to think I supported you in injustice
and unkindness to Princess Zouroff. Please to
go now ; I have a million things to do, and a
deputation about my creole is waiting for me
downstairs.'

Sergius Zouroff went out of her house in a
towering passion ; yet it never occurred to him
to separate from his tormentor. She had an
empire over him that he had long ceased to
resist; he could no more have lived without
seeing Jeanne de Sonnaz than he could live
without his draughts of brandy, his nights of
gambling. Ass there is love without dominion,
so there is dominion without love.

He knew very well that she never wasted
words ; that she never made an empty menace.
He knew that her calculations were always
cool and keen, and that when she thought her
own interests menaced, she was pitiless. She

would keep her word; that he knew well.
What could he do? It was impossible to
recall his wife, since he knew that his
wife would never receive Jeanne de Sonnaz.
The presence of his wife in Paris could only
complicate and increase the difficulties that
surrounded him ; had he not banished her to
Poland for that very cause ? He cursed the
inconsistencies and the insolences of women.
The submission of his wife to his will and his
command had softened his heart towards her ;
lie had vague impulses of compassion and of
pardon towards this woman who was so unyielding
in her dignity, so obedient in her
actions, so silent under her wrongs. As the
year before, after he had found her the victim
of her mother's falsehood, some better impulse,
some tenderer instinct than was common with
him had begun once more to move him towards
that mute captive of his will at Szarisla. But
Jeanne de Sonnaz had always been careful to
smother those impulses at their birth under
ridicule ; to arouse in their stead anger, impatience,
and the morbidness of a vague jealousy.

Without the influence of Jeanne de Sonnaz
ZouroflP would have loved his wife ; not nobly
because he was not noble, nor faithfully, because
he could not be otherwise than inconstant ; but
still, with more honesty of affection, more indulgence,
and more purity, than he had ever had
excited in him by any other creature. But
perpetually, as that better impulse rose, she
had been at hand to extinguish it by irony, by
mockery, or by suggestion. He left her house,
now, in bitter rage, which in justice should have
fallen on her, but by habit fell instead upon his
absent wife. Why could not Vere have been
like any other of the many highborn maidens
of whom he could have made a Princess Zouroff ,
and been indifferent and malleable, and wisely
blind, and willing to kiss Jeanne de Sonnaz on
the cheek, as great ladies salute each other allover
the world, no matter what feuds may
divide or rivalries may sting them ? Why must
she be a woman unfitted for her century, made
only for those old legendary and saintly days
when the bread had changed to roses in St.
Elizabeth's hands ?

A devilish wish that he was ashamed of, even
as it rose up in him, came over him, without his
being able to drive it away. He wished he
could find his wife guilty. He knew her as
innocent as children unborn; yet almost he
wished he could find her weak and tempted
like the rest.

His course would then be easy.

Throughout the adulation of the world she
had remained untempted, and she remained so
still, in that solitude, that dulness, that captivity
which would have driven any other to
summon a lover to her side before a month of
that joyless existence had flown. But then she
had no lover. He was certain she had none.
Not all the mockery and the insistence of his
mistress could make him seriously credit any
infidelity, even of thought or sentiment, in Vere.
'And had she one I would strangle him tomorrow,'
he thought, with that vanity of possession
which so sadly and cruelly survives the
death of passion, the extinction of all love.
Justify your separation from her, said his friend ;
but how? Sergius Zouroff was not yet low

enough to accuse falsely a woman he believed
from his soul to be innocent. He was perplexed,
and bitterly angered against her, against himself,
against all the world. He had meant to
break her spirit and her will by her exile ; he
had never dreamed that she would bear it in
patience and in silence ; knowing women well,
he had fully expected that the strength of her
opposition would soon wear itself out, that she
would soon see that to meet Jeanne de Sonnaz
in society and exchange the commonplaces of
courtesy and custom was preferable to a life in
the snows of the north, with no one to admire
her loveliness, no pleasure to beguile her days
and nights ; he had thought that one single
week of the winter weather, with its lonely
evenings in that deserted place, would banish
all power of resistance in his wife. Instead of
this, she remained there without a word, even
of regret or of protest.

He was enraged that he had ever sent her
into exile. He would not retreat from a step he
had once taken ; he would not withdraw from
a position he had thought it for his dignity to

assume. But he felt that he had committed
the worst of all errors in his own sight; an error
that would end in making him absurd in the
eyes of the world. He could not keep his wife
for ever at Szarisla; society would wonder,
her family would murmur ; even his empress,
perhaps, require explanation : and what excuse
could he give ? He could not say to any of
these, 'I separate from her because she has justly
thought herself injured by Jeanne de Sonnaz.'

As, lost in sullen meditation, he went down
the Rue Scribe to go to his favourite club, he
passed close by Correze.

Correze was walking with a German Margrave,
who nodded to ZourofP with a little
greeting, for they were friends ; Correze looked
him full in the face, and gave him no salutation.

The insolence (as it seemed to him) filled up
the measure of his wrath.

I will slit the throat of that nightingale,'
he muttered as they passed.

At that moment a friend stopped him in
some agitation. ' Good heavens, have you not
heard ? Paul de Sonnaz is dead ; his horse has

thrown him just before the door of the club.
He fell with his head on the kerbstone ; his
neck is broken.'

Zouroff, without a word, went into the Jockey
Club and into the chamber upstairs, whither
they had borne the senseless frame of the Duo
de Sonnaz, who had died in an instant, without
pain. Zouroff looked down on him, and his own
face grew pale and his eyes clouded. Paul de
Sonnaz had been a good, simple, unaffected
man, hon 'prince always, and unconscious of his
wrongs ; docile to his wife and blinded by her,
cordial to his friends and trustful of them.

Poor simpleton ! he was very useful to me,'
muttered Zouroff, as he stood by the inanimate
body of the man he had always deceived. It
was of himself he thought, in the unchangeable
egotism of a long life of self-indulgence.

When Zouroff went to his own house that
day he found the usual weekly report from his
faithful servant Ivan. Ivan affirmed that all
things went on as usual and nothing happened,
but ventured to add :

The climate does not seem to suit the

princess. She rides a great deal, but she
appears to lose strength, and the women say
that she sleeps but little.'

His sister came to him a little later in that
day.

It is of no use for us to quarrel, Sergius,'
she said to him. ' I shall do Vera no good in
that way. I am anxious ; very anxious ; she
writes to me as of old, quite calmly ; but Ivan
writes, on the other hand, that she is ill and
losing strength. "Shy do you not recall her ?
Paul de Sonnaz is dead ; his wife must for
some time be in retreat. Vera is your shield
and safety now ; without her, Jeanne would
marry you.'

Zouroff frowned.

My wife can always return if she please,'
he said evasively.

Would she return ?

He could not see the Duchesse de Sonnaz,
who was surrounded by her family, and that
of her husband, in the first hours of hei
bereavement; and without her counsels, hei
permission, he dared do nothing.

I will write to Vera lie promised his
sister ; but she could not persuade him to write
then and there. ' Szarisla is healthy enough,'
he answered, impatient of her fears. ' Besides,
a woman who can ride for many hours a day
cannot be very weak.'

He knew Szarisla was a place that was
trying to the health of the strongest by reason
of its bitter cold springs and its scorching
summers, with the noxious exhalation of its
marshes. But he would not confess it.

She could return if she chose,' he added, to
put an end to the remonstrances of the Princess
Nelaguine. ' As for her health, if you are
disturbed about it send any physician you like
that you employ to see her ; she has never been
so well as she was before the birth of that
dead child in Russia.'

I shall not send a physician to her as
if she were mad,' answered his sister with
anger.

Send Correze,' said Zouroff with a sardonic
little laugh which he knew was vile.

Would you had died yourself, Sergius,

VOL. III. X

instead of that poor imbecile, whom you
cheated every hour that he lived ! '

Zouroff shrugged his shoulders. ' I regret
Paul — pauvre jargon ! ' he said simply, and said
the truth.

Why do you not regret your own sins ? '

They are the only things that have ever
amused me,' he replied with equal truth. 'And
I thought you were an esprit fort, Nadine ; I
thought your new school of thinkers had
all agreed that there is no such thing as sin
any more ; nothing but hereditary bias, for
which no one is responsible. If we are not to
quarrel again, pray make me no scenes.'

We will not quarrel ; it is childish. But
you promise me to recall your wife ? '

I promise you — yes.'

When I shall have seen Jeanne,' he added
in his own thoughts.

Nadine Nelaguine went to her own house
angered, dissatisfied and anxious. She was a
clever woman, and she was penetrated with the
caution of the world, as a petrified branch with
the lime that hardens it. She smiled cheerfully
always when she spoke of her sister-in-law, and

said tranquilly in society that lie had not Vera's
tastes, she could not dedicate herself to solitude
and the Polish poor as Yera did. She kept lier
own counsel and did not call in others to
witness her pain or her dilemma. She knew
that the sympathy of society is chiefly curiosity,
and that when it has any title to pity it is quite
sure to sneer.

She held her peace and waited, but her often
callous heart ached with a heavy regret and
anxiety.

She has so much to endure ! ' she thought
with hot tears in her sharp keen eyes. ' So
much, so much ! — and it will pass her patience.
She is young; she does not know that a woman
must never resist. A woman should only —
deceive. It is Jeanne's work, all her work ; she
has separated them ; I knew well that she would.
Oh, the fool that he is — the fool and the brute !
If I, and Jeanne, and Lady Dorothy, and all the
women that are like us, were eaten by dogs lilio
Jezebel the world would only be the better and
the cleaner. But Vera, my lily, my pearl, my
saint ! — — '

X 2

In Poland the slow cold spring was leaden-footed
and grey of hue.

In the desolate plains that stretched around
Szarisla the country slowly grew green with the
verdure of budding corn and the yellow river
outspread its banks, turbulent and swollen with
the melted snows.

She knew what it was to be alive, yet not to
live. If it had not been for the long gallops over
the plains through the cold air which she forced
herself to take for hours every day, she would
scarcely have known she was even alive. Little
by little as time went on and the household
found that she remained there, and that her
husband never visited her, the impression gained
on all the people that she had been sent
there either as captive or as mad; and a certain
fear crept into them, and a certain dislike to be
alone with her, and timidity when she spoke,
came upon them. She saw that shrinking from
her, and understood what their fancy about her
was. It did not matter, she thought, only it
hurt her when the little children began to grow
afraid too, and flee from her.

I suppose I am mad she thought, with a
weary smile. ' The world would say so, too ; I
ought to go back to it and kiss Jeanne de
Sonnaz on both cheeks.'

But to do so never occurred to her for one
moment as any temptation.

She was made to break, perhaps, but never
to bend.

One day in the misty spring weather,
which seemed to her more trying than all the
ice and snow of winter, there came over the
plains, now bright with springing grasses or
growing wheat, a troika, with hired horses,
that was pulled up before the iron-bound
doors of Szarisla.

From it there descended a very lovely
woman, with an impertinent, delicate profile,
radiant, audacious eyes, and a look that had
the challenge of the stag with the malice of
the marmoset.

When the servants on guard opposed her
entrance with the habitual formula, ' The
Prince forbids it,' she thrust into their faces a
card signed Sergius ZouroflF.

On the card was written, ^ Admit to
Szarisla the Duchess of Mull.'

The servants bowed to the ground, and
ushered the bearer of that irresistible order
into the presence of their mistress, without
preparation or permission.

Vere was sitting at a great oak table in one
of the high embrasured windows ; the dog was
at her feet; some Greek books were open
before her ; the white woollen gown she wore
fell from her throat to her feet, like the robe of
a nun ; she had no ornament except her thick,
golden hair coiled loosely about her head.

Before she realised that she was not alone
her cousin's wife stood before her, brilliant in
colour as an enamel of Petition, or a Saxe
figure of Kaendler ; radiant with health, with
contentment, with animation, with the satisfaction
with all existent things, which is the
most durable, though not the most delicate,
form of human happiness. Vere rose to her
feet, cold, silent, annoyed, angered ; she was in
her own house, at least her own since it washer
husband's ; she could say nothing that was

discourteous ; she would say nothing that was
welcome. She was astonished and stood mute,
looking down from the height of her noble
stature on this brilliantly-tinted, porcelain-like
figure. For the only time in all her life she
who was Pick-me-up in the world of fashion
was made nervous and held mute.

She was impudent, daring, clever, vain,
and always successful; yet, for the moment,
she felt like a frightened child, like a chidden
dog, before the amazed cold rebuke of those
grand, grey eyes that she had once envied to
the girl Vere Herbert.

'Well! you don't seem to like the look of
me,' she said at last, and there was a nervous
quiver in her high, thin voice. ' You can't be
said to look pleased no-way, and yet I've come
all this way only just to see you ; there aren't
many of the others would do as much.'

You have come to triumph over me ! '
thought her hearer, but, with the stately old-world
courtesy that was habitual to her, she
motioned to her cousin's wife to be seated near
her and said, coldly :

'You are very good ; I regret that Szarisla
can offer you little recompense for so long a
journey. My cousin is well? '

Frank's first rate, and the child too,' said
Fuschia, Duchess of Mull, with a severe effort
to recover the usual lightheartedness, with
which she faced all things and all subjects,
human and divine. 'I called the boy after
you, you know, but you never took any notice.
Goodness ! if it's not like a convent here ;
it's a sort of Bastille, isn't it, and the windows
are all barred up, and I thought they'd
never have let me in ; if I hadn't had
your husband's order they never would have
done till the day of doom ; it's very hard on
you.'

'My husband sent you here?' said Vei?e,
with her teeth closed ; she felt powerless before
a studied insult.

Sent me ? M}^, no ! I don't do things
for people's sending,' said the young duchess,
with some asperity, and her natural courage
reviving in her. ' We were bound to come to
Berlin, because of Ronald Herbert's marriage ;

he is marrying' a Prussian princess — didn't you
know of that ? Doesn't your husband forward
you on your letters? And I said to myself
when I'm as near as that, I will go on to
Poland and see her, so I got that order out of
your husband ; he didn't like it, but he couldn't
say no very well anyhow ; we saw him as we
came through Paris.'

You were very good to take so much
trouble,' said Vere, but her eyes said otherwise.
Her eyes said, ' Why do you come to offend
me in my solitude and insult me in my captivity?'


But in truth her visitor was innocent of
any such thought. Human motives are not
unmixed, and in the brilliant young duchess
there had been an innocent vanity — a half-conscious
conceit — in showing this high-born
and high-bred woman, who had always disdained
her, that she was above revenge and
capable of a noble action. But beyond all
vanity' and conceit were the wish to make Vere
care for her, the indignation at tyranny of a
spirited temper, and the loyal impulse to

stand by what she knew was stainless and
aspersed.

Fuschia Mull, having once recovered her
power of speech, was not silenced soon again.
She had seated herself opposite the high
window, her bright eyes studied the face of
Vere with a curiosity tempered by respect and
heightened bv wonder ; she could flirt with
princes and jest with sovereigns, and carry her
head high in the great world with all the
insolence of a born coquette and a born revolutionary,
and since the day when she had become
a duchess she had never ceased to assert
herself in all the prominence and all the
audacity that distinguished her ; yet before
this lonely woman she felt shy and afraid.

You aren't a bit glad to see me,' she said,
v/ith a little tremor in her words, that flowed
fast from the sheer habit of loquacity. ' You
never would take to me. No ; I know. You've
never forgiven me about that coal, nor for my
marrying your cousin. Well, that's natural
enough ; I don't bear malice. There wasn't
any cause you should like me, though I think

you'd like the baby if you saw him ; he's a
real true Herbert, but that's neither here nor
there. I wanted to see you because you know
they say such things in Paris and London,
and all the others are such poor dawdles ;
they'll never do anything. Even Frank himself
says I shouldn't interfere between husband
and wife ; but people always say you shouldn't
interfere when they only mean you may do
yourself a mischief, and I never was one to
be afraid '

She paused a moment, and her bright eyes
roamed over the dark oak panelled monastic
chamber, with its carpet of lambs' skins, and
beyond its casements the flat and dreary
plains and the low woods of endless firs.

My ! ' she said, with a little shiver, ' if it
aren't worse than a clearing' down West !
Well, he's a brute, anyhow '

Vere looked at her with a regard that
stopped her.

It is my own choice,' she said, coldly.

^ Yes ! I know it is your own choice ina
way,' returned the other with vivacity ;

that is what I wanted to say to you. I told
Frank the other day in Berlin, " She never
liked me, and there wasn't any particular
reason why she should ; but I always did like
her, and I don't mean to stand still and see
her put upon." You don't mind my speaking
so ? — you are put upon because you are just
too good for this world, my dear. Don't look
at me so with your terrible eyes ; I don't mean
any offence. You know they say all sorts of
things in society, and some say one thing and
some another ; but I believe as how the real
fact is this, isn't it ? Your husband has sent
you here because you would not receive Madame
de Sonnaz ? '

That is the fact — yes.'

Well, you are quite right. I only know if
the duke — but never mind that. You know,
or perhaps you don't know, that in the world
they say another thing than that; they say
Prince Zouroff is jealous of that beautiful
creature, Correze '

I must request that you do not say that
to me.'

Well, they say it in your absence, some. I
thought I'd better tell you. That Sonnaz woman
is a bad lot ; poisonous as snakes in a swamp she
is, and of course she bruits it abroad. I cannot
make out what your husband drives at ; 'guess
he wants you to divorce him; but it aren't
him so much as it's that snake. Men are
always what some woman or other makes
them. Now you know this is what I came
to say. I know you don't like me, but I
am the wife of the head of your father's
house, and nothing can change that now,
and in the world I'm some pumpkins — I
mean they think a good deal of me. Now
what I come to ask you is this, and the
duke says it with me with all his heart.
We want you to come and live with us at
Castle Herbert, or in London, or wherever weare.
It will shut people's mouths. It will
nonsuit your husband, and you shall never see
that hussy of the Faubourg in my house, that
I promise you. Will you do it ? Will you ?
Folks mind me, and when I say to them the
Princess Zouroff stays with me because her

husband outrages her, the world will know ita
fact. That's so.'

She ceased, and awaited the effect of her
words anxiously and even nervously ; she
meant with all sincerity all she said.

Into Vere's colourless face a warmth came ;
she felt angered, yet she was touched to the
quick. She could not endure the pity, the protection
; yet the honesty, and the hospitality,
and the frank kindness moved her to emotion.

None of her own friends, none of those who
had been her debtor for many an act of kindness
or hour of pleasure, had ever thought to come
to her in her exile ; and the journey was one
long and tedious, involving discomfort and
self-sacrifice, and yet had had no terrors for
this woman, whose vulgarities she had always
treated with disdain, whose existence she had
always ignored, whose rank she had always
refused to acknowledge.

'You aren't angry?' said the other,
humbly.

'Angry? Oh, no; you have been very
good.'

^ Then you will come with us ? Say !
Your cousin will be as glad as I.'

She was silent.

Do come ! ' urged the other with wistful
eagerness. ' We are going straight home.
Come with us. Of course your mother ought

to be the one, but then she's ; it's no use

thinking of her, and, besides, they wouldn't
believe her; they'll believe me. I don't lie.
And you know I'm an honest woman. I mean
to be honest all my days. I flirt, to be sure,
but, Lord, what's that. I'd never do what my
boy would be sorry I had done, when he grows
big enough to know. You needn't be afraid of
me. I aren't like you. I never shall be.
There is something in the old countries, — but
I'll be true to you, true as steel. Americans
aren't mean ! '

She paused once more, half afraid, in all
her omnipotent vanity, of the answer she
might receive.

Vere was still silent. The great pride
natural to her was at war with the justice and
generosity that were no less her nature. She

was humiliated; yet she was deeply moved.
This woman, whom she had always despised,
had given her back kindness for unkindness,
honour for scorn.

With a frank and gracious gesture she
rose and jut out her hand to her cousin's
wife.

I thank you. I cannot accept your offer,
but I thank you none the less. You revenge
yourself very nobly; you rebuke me very
generously. I see that in the past I did you
wrong. I beg your pardon.'

Into the radiant, bold eyes of Fuschia
Mull a cloud of sudden tears floated.

She burst out crying.

When she went away from Szarisla in the
twilight of the sultry day she had failed to
persuade Vere, yet she had had a victory.

You are a saint ! ' she said, passionately,
as she stood on the threshold of Vere's prison-house.
' You are a saint, and I shall tell all
the world so. Will you give me some little
thing of your own just to take home to my
boy from you? I shall have a kind of fancy

as it will bring him a blessing. It's nonsense
maybe, but still '

Vere gave her a silver cross.

The long, empty, colourless days went by in
that terrible monotony which is a blank in all
after remembrance of it. Since the footsteps
of Correze had passed away over the snow a
silence like death seemed to reign round her.
She noticed little that was around her; she
scarcely kept any count of the flight of time ;
it seemed to her that she had died when she
had sent him from her to the world — the world
that she would never revisit. For she knew
her husband too well not to know that he would
never change in the thing he demanded, and to
purchase freedom by the humiliation of public
tribunals was impossible to a woman reared,
in her childhood, to the austere tenets of an
uncompromising honour, an unyielding pride.

I can live and die here,' she mused often.
But I will never meet his mistress as my
friend, and I will never sue for a divorce.'

When Sergius Zouroff from time to time
wrote her brief words bidding her reconsider

VOL. III. Y

her choice she did not consider for a moment ;
she tore up his message.

The worst bitterness of life had passed her
when she had bidden Correze depart from her.
After that, all seemed so easy, so trivial, so
slight and poor.

If her husband bad sent her into poverty
and made her work with her hands for her
bread, it would have seemed no matter to her.
As the summer came, parching, dusty, unhealthy,
after the bitterness of the cold and
the dampness of the rainy season, her attendants
grew vaguely alarmed, she looked so thin,
so tall, so shadowy her eyes had such heavy
darkness under them, and she slept so little.
As for the world, it had already almost forgotten
her ; she was beautiful but strange ; she
had always been strange, society said, and she
chose to live in Poland.

She thought of society now and then, of
all that hurry and fever, all that fuss and fume
of precedence, all that insatiable appetite for
new things, all that frantic and futile effort
at distraction, all that stew of calumny and

envy and conflict and detraction which together
make up the great world ; and it all seemed to
her as far away as the noise of a village fair in
he valley seems to the climber who stands on
a mountain height. Was it only one year ago
that she had been in it ? — it seemed to her as
if centuries had passed over her head, since the
gates of Szarisla had closed behind her, and its
plains and its pine woods had parted her from
the world.

Even still the isolation was precious to her.
She accepted it with gratitude and humility.

'If I were seeing him daily in the life of
Paris,' she thought, ' who can tell — I might
fall into concealment, deception, falsehood —
I might be no stronger than other women, I
might learn to despise myself.'

And the gloom and the stillness and the
lonely unlovely landscapes, and the long empty
joyless days were all welcome to her; they
saved her from herself. Her loveliness was
unseen, her youth was wasting, her portion was
solitude, but she did not complain. Since she
had accepted this fate she did not murmur at

Y 2

it. Her women wondered at lier patience as
the exiled court of exiled sovereigns often
wonder at their rulers' fortitude.

One day at the close of the month of May,
she sat by herself in the long low room, which
served her as her chief habitation. She had
come in from her ride over the level lands, and
was tired ; she was very often tired now ; a dull
slight rain was veiling the horizon always
dreary at its best ; the sky was grey, the air
was heavy with mist.

It was summertime, and all the plains were
green with grass and grain, but it was summer
without colour and without warmth, dreary and
chilly : it was seven o'clock ; the sun was setting
behind a mass of vapour ; she thought of Paris
at that hour at that season ; with the homeward
rolling tide of carriages, with the noise, the
laughter, the gaiety ; with the light beginning
to sparkle everywhere before the daylight had
faded, with music on the air, and the scent of the
lilacs, and the last glow of the sun shining on the
ruined Tuileries. Had she ever been there with
the crowds looking after her as her horses went

down the Champs Elysees ? — it seemed impossible.
It seemed so far away.

B}^ the papers that came to her she knew that
Correze was still there ; there in the city that
loved him, where his glance was seduction, and
his hours were filled with victories ; she knew
that he was there, she read of the little chateau
at Marly, she comprehended why he chose to
live so, in the full light of publicity, for her
sake. She thought of him this evening, in that
dull grey light which spread like a veil over
the mournful plains of Poland. Would he not
forget as the world forgot her ? why not ? She
had no pride for him.

At that moment as the day declined, a
servant brought her letters.

Letters came to Szarisla but twice in the
week fetched by a horseman from the little
town. The first letter she took out of the
leather sack was from her husband. It was
very brief. It said merely :

Paul de Sonnaz died suddenly last week.
If you will consent to pay a visit of ceremony
and respect to his wife in her retirement at

Ruilliieres, I shall welcome you to Paris with,
pleasure. If not, if you still choose to disobey
me and insult me, you must remain at Szarisla,
which I regret to hear from Ivan does not
appear to suit your health.'

There was nothing more except his signature.


The letter was the result of the promise he
had given to his sister. Vere tore it in two.

The next she opened was a long and tender
one from Nadine Nelaguine urging deference to
his wishes, and advising concession on this point
of a mere visit of condolence to Ruilhieres, withall
the arguments that tact and affection and
unscrupulousness could together supply to the
writer.

The next three or four were unimportant,
the last was a packet addressed in a hand
unknown to her.

She opened it without attention.

Out of the cover fell three letters in her
mother's handwriting.

Wondering and aroused, she read them.
They were letters ten years old. Letters of her

mother to Sergius Zouroff; letters forgotten
when others were burned the week before his
marriage; forgotten and left in the tortoiseshell
casket.

At ten o'clock on the following night as
Prince Zouroff sat at dinner in the Grand
Circle a telegram was brought to him. It was
from his wife.

Never approach me : let me live and die
here.'

SzARiSLA had hidden many sad and many tragic
lives.

It hid that of Vere.

To her husband she had perished as utterly
as though she was dead. From remote districts
of the north, news travels slowly ; never travels
at all, unless it be expressly sent ; Vere had so
seldom written to anyone that it scarcely
seemed strange that she now never wrote at
all. The world had almost ceased to inquire
for her; it thought she had withdrawn herself
into retirement from religious caprice, or from
morbid sentiment, or from an unreturned
passion, or that she had been sent into that exile

for some fault ; whenever women spoke of her
they preferred to think this, they revived old
rumours. For the rest, silence covered her life.

Her sister-in-law wept honest tears, reviled
her brother with honest rage, but then played
musical intricacies, or gambled at bezique, and
tried to forget that the one creature her cynical
heart yearned over, and sighed for, was away in
that drear captivity in the Polish plains.

If I went and lived with her,' thought
Nadine JSTelaguine, ' I should do her no good, I
should not change her: she is taille dans le
marre, I should alter her in nothing, and I
should only be miserable myself.'

In country houses of England and Scotland
her mother went about through summer and
autumn unchanged, charming, popular, and
said with a little smile and a sigh, ' Oh ! my
dear child — you know she is too good — really
too good — wastes all her life in Poland to teach
the children and convert the Nihilists ; she is
happiest so she assures me ; you know she was
always so terribly serious ; it was Bulmer thafc
ruined her ! '

And she believed what she said.

Jeanne de Sonnaz mourned at Ruilhieres
in the austere severity of a great lady's widowhood
in France, heard mass every day with her
little blonde and brown-headed girls and boys
about her in solemn retreat, yet kept her keen
glance on the world, which she had quitted perforce
for a space, and said to herself, annoyed and
baffled, ^ When will he cease to live at Marly ? '

For Correze was always there.

Sergius ZourofF had been to Russia. He
only went to Livonia, but the world thought he
had been to his wife. He returned, and kept
open house, at a superb chasse he had bought in
the Ardennes. When people asked him for his
wife, he answered them briefly that she was
well ; she preferred the north.

Felicite was closed.

The old peasant stood by her wall of furze
and looked in vain along the field paths under
the apple-blossoms.

Now the lark is dead,' she said to her son,
neither of the two comes near.'

So the months fled away.

When the autumn was ended, Correze, who
was always at his little chateau with other
artists about him, said to himself, ' Have I not
done enough for obedience and honour ? I
must see her, though she shall never see me.'

Correze lived his life in the world obedient
to her will, but men and women went by him
like shadows, and even his art ceased to have
power over him.

He was a supreme artist still, since to the
genius in him there was added the culture
of years, and the facility of long habit. But
the joy of the artist was dead in him.

All his heart, all his soul, all his passion,
were with that lonely life in the grey plains of
Poland, whose youth was passing in solitude,
and whose innocence was being slandered by
the guilty.

I obey her ; ' he thought, ' and what is the
use ? Our lives will go by like a dream, and we
shall be divided even in our graves, the world
will always think she has some sin — she lives
apart from her husband ! '

He chafed bitterly at his doom ; he grew

feverish and nervous ; lie fancied in every smile
there was a mockery of her, in every word a
calumny ; once he took up a public print which
spoke of himself and of his retreat at Marly,
and which with a hint and a veiled jest, quoted
that line which Jeanne de Sonnaz had by a
laugh wafted through Paris after his name.

Pur amant sur terre egare !

Correze crushed the paper in his hand, and
threw it from him and went out : he longed todo
something, to act in some way, all the impetuosity
and ardour of his temper were panting
to break from this thraldom of silence and
inaction.

He would have struck Sergius Zouroff on
the cheek in the sight of all Paris, but he had
no title to defend her.

He would only harm her more.

She was the wife of Zouroff, and she
accepted her exile at her husband's hands ; he
had no title to resent for her what she would
not resent for herself.

I am not her lover,' he thought bitterly ;

'I am nothing but a man who loves her hopelessly,
uselessly, vainly'

It was late in autumn, and ghastly fancies
seized him, vague terrors for her, that left him
no sleep and no rest, began to visit him. Was
she really at Szarisla ? Was she indeed living ?
He could not tell. There were disturbances and
bloodshed in the disaffected provinces ; winter
had begun there in Poland, the long, black
silence of winter, which could cover so many
nameless graves ; he could bear absence, ignorance,
apprehension no longer ; he went to sing
twenty nights in Vienna, and ten in Moscow.

There I shall breathe the same air,' he
thought.

He went over the Alps, by way of the Jura
and Dauphine ; he thought as he passed the
peaceful valleys and the snow-covered summits
that had been so familiar in childhood to him :

'If I could only dwell in the mountains
with her, and let the world and fame go by ! '

Then he reproached himself for even such
dishonour to her as lay in such a thought.

What am I that she should be mine ? ' he

mused. ' I have been the lover of many women,
I am not worthy to touch her hand. The
world could not harm her — would I ? '

In Vienna he had brilliant successes. He
thought the people mad. To himself he seemed
for ever useless, and powerless for art, his voice
sounded in his ears like a bell muffled and out of
tune. The cities rejoiced over him and feasted
and honoured him ; but it seemed to him all
like a dream ; he seemed only to hear the
beating of his own heart that he wished would
break and be at peace for ever.

From Moscow he passed away, under public
plea that he was bound for Germany, towards
those obscure, dull, unvisited plains, that lie
towards the borders of East Prussia and the
Baltic sea, and have scarce a traveller to notice
them, and never a poet or historian to save them
from the nations' oblivion, but lie in the teeth of
the north wind, vast, ill-populated, melancholy,
with the profound unchangeable wretchedness
of a captive people.

Once more he saw the wide grey plains that
stretched around Szarisla.

For days and weeks he lingered on in the
miserable village which alone afforded him a
roof and bed ; he passed there as a stranger from
the south buying furs ; he waited and waited in
the pine woods merely to see her face. ' If I can
see her once drive by me, and she is well, I will
go away,' he said to himself, and he watched
and waited. But she never came.

At length he spoke of her to the archimandrite
of the village, as a traveller might of a
great princess of whom hearsay had told him.
He learned that she was unwell, and rarely left
the house.

Correze, as he heard, felt his heart numb
with fear, as all nature was numbed with frost
around him.

He could not bring himself to leave. The
village population began to speak with wonder
and curiosity of him ; he had bought all the fur
they had to sell, and sent them through into
Silesia ; they knew he was no trader, for he never
bargained, and poured out his roubles like sand ;
they began to speak of him, and wonder at him,
and he knew that it was needful he should go.

But he could not ; he lived in wretchedness, with
scarcely any of the necessaries, and none of the
comforts of life, in the only place that sheltered
travellers, but from that cabin, he could see the
stone walls of her prison-house across the white
sea of the snow-covered plains ; it was enough.
The spot was dearer to him than the gay,
delirious pleasures of his own Paris. In the
world wherever he chose to go, he would have
luxury, welcome, amusement, the rapture of
crowds, the envy of men, the love of women, all
the charm that success and art and fame can
lend to life at its zenith. Buc he stayed on at
Szarisla for sake of seeing those pale stern walls
that rose up from the sea of snow.

Those walls enclosed her life.

The snow had ceased to fall, the frost had
set in, in its full intensity ; one day the sun
poured through the heavy vapours of the cloud-covered
sky.

He went nearer the building than he had
ever done. He thought it possible the gleam
of the sun might tempt her to the open air.

He stood without the gates and looked ; the
front of the great sombre pile seemed to frown,

the casements had iron stanchions ; the doors
were like the doors of a prison.

sand that brute has shut her here!' he
thought, ' shut her here while he sups with
Casse une-route ! '

Suddenly he seemed to himself to be a
coward, because he did not strike Sergius
Zouroff, and shame him before the world.

I have no right,' he thought. ' But does a
man want one when a woman is wronged?'

He stood in the shadow of some great
Siberian pines, a century old, and looked ' his
heart out through his ej-es.'

As he stood there, one person and then
another, and then another, came up and stood
there, until they gathered in a little crowd ; he
asked, in their own tongue, of one of them why
they came; they were all poor; the man who
was a cripple said to him : ' The Princess used
to come to us while she could ; now she is ill
we come to her ; she is strong enough sometimes
to let us see her face, touch her hand ;
the sun is out; perhaps she will appear to-day;
twice a week the charities are given.'

VOL. III. z

Correze cast his furs close about him, so
that his face was not seen, and stood in the
shadow of the great gateway.

The doors of the building opened ; for a
moment he could see nothing ; his eyes were
blind with the intensity of his desire and his fear.

When the mist passed from his sight he saw
a tall and slender form, moving with the grace
that he knew so well, but very wearily and very
slowly, come out from the great doors, and
through the gates; the throng of cripples and
sufferers and poor of all sorts fell on their knees
and blessed her.

He kneeled with them, but he could not
move his lips to any blessing ; with all the might
of his anguish he cursed Sergius Zoiiroff.

Vere's voice, much weakened, but grave
and clear as of old, came to his ear through
the rarified air.

My pecnle, do not kneel to me ; you know
it pains me. It is long since I saw you ; what
can I do ? '

She spoke feebly ; she leaned on a tall cane
she bore, and as she moved the thick veil

from about her head, the man who would have
given his life for hers saw that she was changed
and aged as if by the passing of many years.
He stifled a cry that rose to his lips, and stood
and gazed on her.

The poor had long tales of woe ; she
listened patiently, and moved from one to
another, saying a few words to each ; behind
her were her women, who gave alms to each as
she directed them. She seemed to have little
strength ; after a time she stood still, leaning
on her cane, and the people grouped about her,
and kissed the furs she wore.

Correze went forward timidly and with
hesitation, and kneeled by her, and touched
with his lips the hem of the clothes.

What do you wish ? ' she said to him,
seeing in him only a stranger, for his face was
hidden ; then as she looked at him a tremor ran
through her ; she started, and quivered a little.

'Who are you?' she said quickly and
faintly ; and before he could answer muttered to
him, ' Is this how you keep your word ? — you
are cruel ! '

z 2

For the love of God let me see you alone,
let me speak one word,' he murmured, as he
still kneeled on the frozen snow. 'You are
suffering ? you are ill ? '

She moved a little away, apart from the
people who only saw in him the traveller they
knew, and thought he sought some succour from
the mistress of Szarisla. He followed her.

'You promised ' she said wearily, and

then her voice sank.

I promised,' he murmured, ' and I had not
strength to keep it ; I will go away now that I
have seen you. But you are ill, this country
kills you, your people say so ; it is you who
are cruel.'

He could scarcely see her in the veils, and
the heavy fur-lined robes that screened her
from the cold ; he could only see the delicate
cheeks grown thin and wan, and the lustrous
eyes that were so weary and so large.

I am not ill ; I am only weak,' she said,
while her voice came with effort. ' Oh, why
slid you come ? It was cruel ! '

She dropped her hood over her face ; he

heard her weeping — it was the first time he had
ever seen her self-control broken.

Why cruel ? ' he murmured. ' Dear God !
how can I bear it ? You suffer ; you suffer
in health as well as in mind. What do you
do with your life ? — is it to perish here, buried
in the snow like a frozen dove's? He is a
brute beast; what need to obey him? what
need to be faithful ? '

Hush — hush ! there has been sin enough
to expiate. Let me live and die here. Go —
go— go ! '

Correze was silent. He gazed at her and
loved her as he had never loved her or any
other ; and yet knew well that she was right.
Nay, he thought almost better could he bear
the endless night of perpetual separation than
be the tempter to lead that fair life down into the
devious ways of hidden intrigue, or out into
the bald and garish glare of open adultery.

my love, my empress, my saint ! ' he
murmured, as all his soul that yearned for her
gazed from his aching eyes. ' Long ago I said
cursed be those who bring you the knowledge

of evil. Others have brought it you ; I will not
bring more. I love you ; yes ; what of that ?
I have sung of love all my days, and I have
sworn it to many, and I have been its slave
often, too often ; but my love for you is as
unlike those passions as you are unlike the
world. Yet you ask me to leave you here in
the darkness of these ghastly winters ; in the
midst of an alien people that curse the name
you bear ; alone amidst every peril, surrounded
by traitors and spies? Ask me any other thing;
not that ! '

It must be that,' she said ; her voice was
below her breath, but it was firm.

No, no — not that, not that ! ' he cried
passionately ; ' any other thing ; not that ! Let
me stay where I see the roof that shelters you.
Let me stay where I breathe the same air as
you breathe. Let me stay where, from a
distance in the forests, I can watch your horses
go by and see the golden gleam of your hair on
the mists ; I will perish to the world ; I will
be dead to men ; I will come and live here as a
hunter or a woodcutter, as a tiller of the fields

what you will ; but let me live where I know
all that befalls you, where I can be beside you
if you need me, where I can kiss the wind as it
blows, because in its course it touched your
cheek '

In all the strength of his passion, in all the
melody of his voice, the eloquence that was as
natural to him as song to a bird poured itself
out in that prayer. Only to dwell near her —
never to touch her hand, never to meet her
eyes, but to be near her where she dwelt, in
this land of frost, of silence, of darkness, of
danger, of sorrow-that was all he asked. And
all the tenderness that was in her, aJl the
youth, all the womanhood, all the need of
sympathy and affection that were in her longed
to grant his prayer.

To have him remain within call ; to feel that
in that dark, lone, wintry desert his heart was
beating and his courage was watching near her;
to think that when the chill stars shone out of
the midnight clouds they would shine on some
lonely forest cabin where this one creature who
loved her would be living in obscurity for her

sake ; — this was so sweet a thought she dared
not look at it, lest her force should fail her.
She gathered all her strength. She remembered
all that his life was to him — so gay, so great,
so full of love, and honour, and triumph, —
would she ue so weak, so wicked, in her selfishness
as to take him from the world for her, to
be his living grave, to make him bankrupt in
genius, in art, in fame ?

She thrust the temptation from her as
though it were a coiling snake.

'You mean the thing you say,' she murmured
faintly. ' Yes ; and I am grateful ; but
all that can never be. All you can do for me
is — to leave me.'

How can I leave you — leave you to die
alone ? What need — what use is there in such
a waste of life ? No ! what you bid me do, I do.
I will keep the word I gave you ; if you tell me
to go, I go, but for the pity of heaven, think
first what it is you ask ; think a little of what I
suffer.'

'Have I not thought?'
She put her hands out feebly towards him.

If you love me indeed, leave me ; there is
sin enough, shame enough, spare me more.
If indeed sou love me, be my good angel — not
my tempter ! '

He eras pierced to the heart ; he, the lover
of so many women, knew well that moment in
the lives of all women who love, and are loved,
when they sink in a trance of ecstasy and pain,
and yield without scarce knowing that they
yield, and are as easily craven downward to
their doom as a boat into the whirlpool. He
saw that this moment had come to her, as it
comes to every woman into whose life has entered
love. He saw that he might be the master of
her fate and her.

For an instant the temptation seized him, like
a flame that wrapped him in its fire from head
to foot. But the appeal to his strength and to
his pity called to him from out that mist and heat
of passion and desire. All that was generous,
that was chivalrous, that was heroic, in him,
answered to the cry. All at once it seemed to
him base — base, with the lowest sort of cowardice
— to try and drag the pure and lofty spirit to

MOTHS.

earth, to try and make her one with the women
she abhorred. He took her hands, and pressed
them close against his aching heart.

Better angels than I should be with you,'
he murmured ; ' but at least I will try and
save you from devils. No man's love is fit for
you. I will go, and I will never return.'

He stooped, and with tremulous lips touched
her hands ; then once more he left her, and
went away over the frozen snow.

Without pause Correze travelled straight to
Paris.

He reached there late, and had barely time
to dress and pass on to the stage.

It was the opera of ' Romeo and Giulietta.'

He knew its music as a child knows its
cradle-song.

He played, acted, and sang, from one
end to the other of the long acts perfectly,
but without any consciousness of what he did.

I am the mechanical nightingale,' he
thought, bitterly : the crowded opera-house
swam before his eyes.

Are you ill, Correze ? ' murmured the
great songstress, who was his Juliet.

'• I am cold,' he answered her. It seemed
to him as if the cold of those bitter plains,
which were the prison of Yere, and might be
her tomb, had entered his blood and frozen
his very heart.

When he went to his carriage the streets
were lined with the throngs of a city that loved
him. They pressed to see him, they shouted
his name, they flung bouquets of flowers on to
him ; he was their Roi Soleil, their prince of
song. He wondered was he mad, or were they ?
His voice felt strangled in his throat ; he saw
nothing of the lighted streets and the joyous
multitudes, he saw only the piteous eyes of the
woman he loved as she had said to him —

Be my angel, not my tempter ! '

I cannot be her angel,' he said to himself.
But I will try and save her from devils.'

In all his life before he had never been at
a loss. He had never known before what doubt
meant, or

What hell it s in waiting to abide.

His victories had all been facile, his love

had all been swift and smooth, his career had
been a via triumphal without shadow, he had
been happy always, he had had romance in his
life, but no grief, no loss, no regret ; he had
been the spoiled child of fate and of the world.

Now the fatal tenderness, the unavailing
regret, which had been no darker than a summer
cloud when he had passed away from the
shores of Calvados, leaving the child, Vere
Herbert, in her mother's hands, had now spread
over all his present and hung over all the horizon
of his future in a sunless o'loom that nothing
would ever break or lighten.

And he was powerless !

If he could have acted in any way he would
have been consoled. The elasticity and valour
of his temperament would have leapt up to
action like a bright sword from the scabbard.
But he could do nothing. The woman he
adored might perish slowly of those nameless
maladies which kill the body through the mind ;
and he could do nothing.

He would not tempt her, and he could not
avenge her.

He who knew the world so intimately, who
had seen a million times a laugh, a hint, a
word, destroy the honour of a name, knew well
that he would but harm her more by any
defence of her innocence, any protest against
the tyranny of her husband. .

Though he gave his life to defend her fair
fame, the world would only laugh.

He drove through the brilliant streets of
Paris at midnight, and shut his eyes to the
familiar scenes with a heartsick weariness of
pain. He loved cette bonne ville de Paris,
which had smiled on him, played with him,
pampered with him, as a mother her favourite
child; which always lamented his departure
when he left it, which always welcomed him with
acclamation when he returned. He loved it
with affection, with habit, with the strength of
a thousand memories of his glory, of his
pleasure, of his youth ; yet as he drove through
it, almost he cursed it ; Paris sheltered the vices
of Sergius Zouroff, and worshipped his wealth.

He entered the club of the Grand Circle
after the opera. He wished to gather tidings

of the husband of Vere and of what the world
said of her in her exile.

In one of the rooms Zonroff was seated,
his hat was on the table beside him ; he
was speaking with the Marquis de Merilhac.
As Correze entered, Zouroff rose and put his
hat on his head. ' Let us go to a club where
there are no comedians,' he said in a loud
voice to Herve de Merilhac, and went out.
It was an insolence with intention ; in the
Ganaches men keep their heads uncovered.

All who were present looked at Correze.
He took no notice. He spoke to his own
acquaintances; the insult had no power to
move him since he had so long kept his arm
motionless, and his lips mute, for her sake.

Some men who knew him well and were
curious, made a vague apology for the Russian
Prince.

He is jealous,' they added, with a little
fatuous laugh. ' You come from Poland ! '

I have sung in Moscow and Warsaw,' said
Correze, with an accent that warned them not
to pursue the theme. ' And it is true,' he added.

with a grave coldness that had its weight flora
one so careless, so gay, and so facile of temper
as he was. ' It is true that in a part of Poland
the Princess Vera Zouroff does live on one
of her husband's estates, devoting herself to
the poor because she prefers solitude and exile
to receiving as her friend the widow of Paul
de Sonnaz, the sister of Herve de Merilhac'

For the moment, such is the immediate
force of truth, no one laughed. There was the
silence of respect.

Then they spoke of his return, of the opera
that night, of his stay in Vienna, of all the
topics of the hour then occupying the scarcely-opened
salons of Paris. No man in the
Ganaches was bold enough to speak again in
his presence of Princess Zouroff.

Why did you insult Correze ? ' said the
Marquis de Merilhac, as Zouroff passed on
with him to the Rue Scribe.

I do not choose to be in the same club with
a singer,' answered Zouroff, with rough impatience.


But he belongs to half the great clubs of
Europe.'

Then I will insult him in half of them !
You may have heard, il fait la cour a ma
femme.'

Jeanne told me something at Felicite,' said
Herve de Merilhac. ' But she said it was only
romance.'

Romance ! Faust or Edward ! or, as in a
Renaissance dress, he is adored by Leonora !
Merci Men ! I am not jealous, I am not unreasonable
; I know the destinies of husbands.
But I do not accept a rival in the satin and
tinsel of the stage ! Half a century ago,' added
ZouroflF, as he turned in at the doors of the
Jockey Club, ' one could have had this man
beaten by one's lackeys. Now one is obliged
to meet him at one's cercle and insult him as
though he were a noble.'

He is one,' said the Marquis de Merilhac,
who was perplexed and dissatisfied.

Faugh ! ' said Zouroff, with the scorn of
a great prince.

The next morning, as Correze passed through
the gardens of the Tuileries, he chanced to seethe
small, spare form of the Princesse Nela-

VOL. III. A A

guide; she was seated on a bench in the
sunshine of the wintry morning, watching
the little children of her eldest son float
their boats upon one of the basins. He paused,
hesitated, saluted her, and approached. Madame
Nelaguine smiled on him.

Why not ? ' she thought, ' there is nothing
true; even were it true she would be justified.'


Correze spoke to her with the compliment
of daily life, which he, better than most men,
could divest of the commonplace and invest
with grace and dignity. Then abruptly he
said to her, ' Princesse, I was coming to you
this morning ; I have been to Szarisla '

She started, and looked at him in surprise.


To Szarisla ? You have seen — my brother's
wife ? It is strange you should tell me.'

I tell you because she is your brother's
wife,' answered Correze ; his face was pale
and grave, and his tone was sad and cold,
with an accent of rebuke, which her quick
ear detected. ' May I speak to you honestly ?

I should be your debtor if you would allow
me.'

She hesitated ; then sent the children and
their attendants farther away, and motioned
to him to sit beside her.

^I suppose you know what they say,' she
said to him ; ' my brother would think I did ill
to listen to you.'

In what they say, they lie.'

The world always lies, or almost always ;
I think it lies about you, or I should not speak
to you. You have been to Szarisla ? '

*I have been there; I have seen her for
five minutes, no more, though I lived in the
village five weeks. Madame, she has death in
her face.'

The tears rushed into his hearer's keen,
curious eyes, her lips trembled.

'No-no, you exaggerate! Vera dying?
You make my heart sick. I have feared for her
health always — always — what did you do those
five long weeks ? '

'I waited to see her face,' said Correze
simply ; ^ Madame, listen to me one moment ; I

A A 2

will try not to tire your patience. She is your
brother's wife ; yes, but she is dealt with as he
would never deal with one of his mistresses.
Listen ; long ago, when she was a child, I net
her on a summer morning ; I loved her then ;
call it fancy, caprice, poetry, what you will ;
her mother gave her, not to me, but to Prince
ZourofF. I kept away from her ; I would not
sing in Russia whilst she was there ; I would
not approach her in Paris ; if I had seen her in
peace, seen her even respected, I would have
tried to be content, I would for ever have been
silent ; instead, I have seen her insulted in every
way that infidelity can insult a woman '

I know ! I know ! Spare me that ; goon
'

At last I knew that she was sent into
exile ; and why ? because she would no longer
receive Jeanne de Sonnaz.'

It was a madness to refuse to receive Jeanne
de Sonnaz ; after all, what did it matter ?
women meet their rivals, their foes, every hour,
and kiss them. It was madness to refuse ! '

It may have been. It was noble, it was

truthful, it was brave, it was befitting the
delicacy and the dignity of her nature. For
that act, though no one can deny that she is
in the right, she is exiled into a land where
life is unendurable, even to yourselves, natives
of it; where the year is divided between an
endless winter and a short, parching season of
heat that it is mockery to call the summer;
where the only living creatures that surround
her are servants who watch and chronicle her
simplest action, and peasants, whose God is a
dream, and whose homes are hovels. Did
your brother wish for her death, or for her
insanity, that he chose Szarisla ? '

My brother wishes that she should meet
Jeanne de Sonnaz. I am frank with you ; be
frank with me. Are you the lover of my
brother's wife? Paris says so.'

Madame, that I love her, and shall love no
other whilst I live, I do not deny. That I am
her lover is a lie, a calumny, a blasphemy,
against her.'

Madame Nelaguine was silent ; she looked
at him with searching, piercing eyes.

What did you do, then, at Szarisla ? '

I went to see her face, to hear her footsteps,
to be sure that she lived. I spoke to
her; I laid mj soul, my honour, all the service
of my life, at her feet, and she rejected them.
That is all.'

'AH?'

She was once more silent; she was a suspicious
woman and a cynical, and often false
herself, and never credulous ; yet she believed
him.

You have been unwise, imprudent ; you
should never have gone there,' she said
suddenly. ' And she is ill you say ? '

The priest said so ; she looks so ; she is
weak ; she is all alone. I should never have
gone there? I should have been a coward
indeed if I had not ; if I had known her so
deeply wronged, and had not at least offered
her vengeance '

Her husband is my brother ! '

It is because he is your brother that I
asked the grace of your patience to-day.
Madame, remember it is very terrible that at

twenty years old an innocent creature, lovely as
the morning, should be confined in exile till she
dies of utter weariness, of utter loneliness, of
utter hopelessness ! Prince Zouroff is within
his rights, but none the less is he an assassin.
I believe he alleges that she is free to return,
but when he couples her return with an unworthy
condition that she cannot accept, she
is as much his captive as though chains were
on her. If she remain there, she will not live,
and she will never consent to leave Szarisla,
since she can only leave it at the price of
affected friendship with the Duchesse de
Sonnaz '

What would you have me do ? ' cried his
hearer in a sudden agitation very rare with
her, in which anger and sorrow strove together ;
what is it you ask ? what is it you wish ? I
do not understand '

I wish you to speak to Prince Zouroff.

Speak to Sergius ? '

In my name, yes ; he would not hear me
or I would speak myself. Madame, your
brother knows very well that his wife is as

innocent as the angels, but it suits him that all
the world should suspect her.'

Then he is a villain ! '

'He is under the influence of an unscrupulous
woman, that is nearly the same thing. Madame
de Sonnaz never forgave his marriage ; she
now avenges it. Madame, what I wish is that
you should speak to your brother as I speak to
you. He would not hear me ; that is natural.
He is her husband, I am nothing ; he has the
right to refuse to listen to her name from my
mouth. But you, he will hear. Tell him what
I have told you ; tell him that, when the world
speaks of me and of her it lies ; and tell him —
I can think of no better way — that to remove
all possibility of suspicion, to put away all
semblance of truth from the rumours of society,
I myself will die to the world. Why not ? I
am tired. She will never be mine. Fame is
nothing to me. The very music I have adored
all my life seems like the mere shaking of dried
peas in an empty bladder. I cannot forget one
woman's face, a woman who will never be mine.
I will leave art and the world of men ; I will

go back to the mountains where I was born,
and live the life my fathers led ; in a season
Europe will have forgotten that it had ever an
idol called Correze. Nay, if that fail to content
him, if he doubt that I shall keep my word, I
will do more ; I will enter one of those retreats
where men are alone with their memories and
with God. There is the Chartreuse that has
sheltered greater men than I and nobler lives
than mine. It is all alone amidst the hills ; I
should be in my native air ; I could go there.
You stare ; do you doubt ? I give my word that
1 will die to the world ; I can think of no
other way to save her name from mine. If
that content him I will do it, if he will bring
her back into the honour of the world, and
never force her to see Jeanne de Sonnaz. Does
it seem so much to you to do ? It is
nothing ; I would die in my body for her, or
to do her any good. Thus I shall die, only in
name.'

He ceased to speak, and his hearer was
silent. There was no sound buff the wind
blowing through the scorched ruins of the

Tuileries, and scattering on the earth the
withered leaves of the trees.

But what you will do is a martyrdom,' she
cried abruptly ; ' it is death ten thousand
times over! Retreat from the world? you?
the world's idol ! '

I would do more for her if I knew what todo.'


She held out her hand to him.

You are very noble.'

I will do what I say,' he answered simply.

She was silent, in the silence of a great
amaze ; the amazement of a selfish and a
corrupt nature at one that is unselfish and
uncorrupted.

You are very noble she murmured once
more, ' and she is worthy of your heroism.
Alas ! it will be of no use ; you do not understand
my brother's character, nor what is now
moving his mind. You do not see that his
desire is, not to save his wife from you, but to
force her to divorce him.'

If he were not your brother '

You would curse him as a scoundrel ? He

is not that ; he is a man, too rich, spoiled by
the world, and now dominated by a dangerous
woman. I will speak to him; I will tell
him what you have said; but I have little
hope.'

She gave him her hand again, her eyes were
wet. He rose, bowed, and left her. He had
done what he could.

At that moment Sergius Zouroff, in the
smoking-room of the Ganaches, was reading a
little letter that had come to him from the
chateau of Ruilhieres. It was very short, it
said only, ' Correze has returned to Paris ; he
has been at Szarisla. Do not let his talent,
the trained talent of the stage, deceive you.'

Madame Nelaguine an hour later told him
of what had been said to her in the gardens of
the Tuileries. She spoke with an eloquence
she could command at will, with an emotion
that was rarely visible in her.

This man is noble,' she said when she had
exhausted all argument and all entreaty, and
had won no syllable from him in reply. ' Have
you no nobility to answer his ? His sacrifice

would be unparalleled, his devotion superb ;
he will die to the world in the height of his
fame, like a king that abdicates in his full
glory and youth. Can you not rise for once
to his height ? Will a prince of our blood be
surpassed in generosity by an artist ? '

He heard his sister speak in unbroken
silence. She was afraid with a great fear.
His stormy passions usually spent themselves
in rage that was too indolent to act, but his
silence was always as terrible as the silence
of the frost at midnight in his own plains,
when men were dying in the snow.

^ You may be the dupe of a comedian's
cows de theatre,' was all that he said when she
had ended ; ' I am not ; tell him so.'

Sergius Zouroff knew well when he looked
into his own heart that he was doing a base
thing; he knew well that Yere was as .pure of
any earthly sin as any earthly creature can be ;
he did not believe any one of the daughters of
men had ever been so innocent as she, or so
faithful to the things she deemed her dut3\
But he stifled his conscience, and let loose

only the rage which consumed him ; half rage
against her because she was for ever lost to
him, half rage against himself for this other
tyranny, which he had allowed to eat into and
absorb his life. He was sullen, angered, dissatisfied,
a dull remorse was awake in him, and
the savage temper which had been always uncontrolled
in him, craved for some victim on
which to vent itself. His wife he dared not
approach. His fury, though never his suspicions,
fell upon Correze.

He is not her lover ; she is pure as the
ice,' he said impatiently to himself. But she
was not there, and Correze was before his eyes
in Paris. A real and sombre hatred grew up
in him ; for little, for nothing, he would have
killed this man an he killed a bird.

Correze sang this night at the Grand
Opera, according to his engagement.

The opera-house was in a tumult of rapture
and homage ; flowers rained on him ; women
wept; Paris the cynical, Paris the mocker,
Paris the inconstant, was faithful to him, worshipped
him, loved him as poets love, and dogs.

It was the grandest night that even his
triumphal life had ever known. It was the
last. When the glittering crowds swam before
his eyes, and welcomed his return, in his heart
he said to them, ' farewell.'

As men doomed to death at dawn look at
the sunrise of the last day they will ever see,
so he looked at the crowds that hung upon his
voice. It was for the last time, he said to
himself: tomorrow he would keep the word
he had given to Sergius Zouroff and would
perish to the world. He would sing no more,
save in the matin song, in the cold, white
dawns, in the monastery of the mountains
above Grenoble.

She said rightly,' he thought ; ' it is so
easy to die.'

But to live so would be hard.'

He would leave the laugh of the world
behind him ; a few women would mourn their
lost lover, and the nations would mourn their
lost music, but the memory of nations is short-lived
for the absent, and he knew well that
for the most part the world would laugh ;

laugh at Euy Bias, who chose to bury his life
for a fatal passion in the solitudes of the
mountains in days when passion has lost all
dignity and solitude all consolation. To the
world he would seem but a romantic fool, since
in this time there are neither faith nor force,
but only a dreary and monotonous triviality
that has no fire for hatred and has no soul for
sacrifice.

I can think of nothing else,' he said to
himself. He could think of no other way by
which he could efface himself from the living-world
without leaving remorse or calumny
upon her name. And to him it was not so
terrible as it would have been to others. He
had had all the uttermost sweetness and
perfection of life, he had drunk deeply of all
its intoxications, he was now at the zenith of
his triumphs. He thought that it would be
better to lay aside the cup still full rather than
drain it to the lees. He thought that it would
not be so very bitter after all to abdicate, not
one half so bitter as to await the waning of
triumphs, the decay of strength, the gradual

change from public idolatry to public apathy,
which all genius sees that does not perish in its
prime. And he had more of the old faiths in
him than most men of his generation. He
had something of the enthusiast and of the
visionary, of Montalembert and of Pascal. It
would not be so hard, he thought, to dwell
amidst the silence of the mountains, waiting
until the Unknown God should reveal by death
the mysteries of life. Beyond all and beneath
all, as he had often said, be was a mountaineer
; he would be a monk amidst the
mountains. Let the world laugh.

As the crowd of the Opera House recalled
him, and the plaudits that he would never
hear again thundered around him, he murmured
:

Je briserai sur mon genoa
Le sceptre avec le diadem
Comme un enfant casse un joujou,
Moi-meme, en plein r^gne, au grand jour.

And his eyes were wet as he looked fur the
last time on the people of Paris and said in his
heart — farewell .

As he went away from the theatre, amidst

the sh-Outs of the exulting multitude — waiting
as when kings pass through cities that hail
them as victors — a note was brought to him.
It was from Nadine Nelaguine. It said merely :
I have spoken to my brother, but it is of no
use. He will hear no reason. Leave Paris.'

The face of Correze grew dark.

I will not leave Paris,' he said to himself.
He saw in the counsel a warning or a threat.
I will not leave Paris until I enter the shroud
of the monkish habit.'

And he smiled a little wearily, thinking
again that when he should have buried himself
in the Chartreuse the world would only see in
the action a coup de theatre ; a fit ending to the
historian who had been so often the Fernando of
its lyric triumphs.

He went down the street slowly on foot, the
note of Nadine Nelaguine in his hand, his
carriage following him filled with the bouquets
and wreaths that had covered the stage that
night.

He looked up at the stars and thought :
When I am amidst the snows alone in my

VOL. III. B B

cell, will these nights seem to me like heaven
or like hell ? '

An old and intimate friend touched his arm
and gave him a journal of the evening.

Have you read this ? ' said his friend, and
pointed to an article signed ' Tin qui n'y croit
pas.'

It was one of the wittiest papers that was
sold upon the Boulevards ; there was a brilliant
social study ; it was called, ales anges terrestres.'

Under thin disguises it made its sport and
jest of the Ice-flower away in Poland, and the
Romeo of Paris, who was breaking the hearts
of women by an anchorite's coldness.

It had been written by a ready whiter in
the Rue Meyerbeer, but its biting irony, its
merciless raillery, its gay incredulity, its sparkling
venom, had been inspired from the retreat
of Ruilhieres.

Correze turned into Bignon's, which he was
passing, and read it sitting in the light of the
great salon.

It would have hurt him less to have had a
score of swords buried in his breast.

^ If I avenge her I shall but darken her
name more ! ' he thought, in that agony of
impotence which is the bitterest suffering a
bold and a fervent temper can ever know.

At that moment Sergius Zouroff entered ; he
had both men and women with him. Amongst
the women were a circus-rider of the Hippodrome,
and the quadroon Casse-une-Croute.

It was midnight.

Correze rose to his feet, at a bound, and
approached the husband of Vere.

With a movement of his hand he showed
him the article he had read.

Prince Zouroff,' he said, between his teeth.
Will you chastise this as it merits, or do you
leave it to me ? '

Zouroff looked at him with a cold stare.
He had already seen the paper. For the moment
he was silent.

I say,' repeated Correze, still between his
teeth. * jDo you avenge the honour of the
Princess Zouroff? I ask you in public, that
your answer may be public'

The honour of the Princess Zouroff ! '

B B 2

echoed her husband, with a loud laugh.
'Mais — c'est a vous, monsieur ! '

Correze lifted his hand and struck him on
the cheek.

You are a liar, you are a coward, and sou
are an adulterer ! ' he said, in his clear, far-reaching
voice, that rang like a bell through
the silence of the assembled people; and he
struck him three times as he spoke.

To Szarisla, " in the intense starlit cold of a
winter's night, a horseman, in hot-haste,
brought a message that had been borne to the
nearest city on the electric wires, and sent on
by swift riders over many verses of snow and
ice.

It was a message from Sergius Zouroff to
his wife, and her women took it to her when
she lay asleep ; the troubled, weary sleep that
comes at morning to those whose eyes have
not closed all night.

It was but a few words.

It said only : ' I have shot your nightingale
in the throat. He will sing no more ! '

She read the message.

For a few moments she knew nothing ; a
great darkness fell upon her and she saw
nothing ; it passed away, and the native
courage and energy of her character came to
life after their long paralysis.

She said no word to any living creature.
She lay quite still upon her bed, her hand
crushed upon the paper. She bade her women
leave her, and they did so, though they were
frightened at her look, and reluctant.

It was an hour past midnight.

When all was again still she arose, and
clothed herself by the light of the burning
lamp. No man can suffer from insult as a woman
does who is at once proud and innocent. A
man can avenge himself at all times, unless hebe
a poltroon indeed; but to a woman there
is no vengeance possible that will not make
her seem guiltier in the eyes of others, and
more deeply lowered in her own. As Vere
rose and bound her hair closely about her head,
and clothed herself in the furs that were to
shelter her against the frightful frost, all her

veins were on fire with a consuming rage that
for the moment almost burnt out the grief that
came with it.

She had been made a public sport, a public
shame, by her husband, who knew her innocent,
and faithful, and in temptation untempted!
She had been sacrificed in life, and peace, and
name, and fame, to screen the adulterous guilt
of another woman ! All the courage in her
waked up in sudden resurrection; all the
haughty strength of her character revived
under the unmerited scourge of insult.

They should not dishonour her in her
absence. They should not lie without her
protest and her presence. He who was also
guiltless should not suffer alone. Perhaps
already he was dead. She could not tell ; she
read the message of her husband as meaning
death ; she said to herself, ' Living, I will
console him ; dead, I will avenge him.'

She drew the marriage-ring off her hand,
and trampled it under her foot as Sergius
Zouroff had trodden the Moth and the Star.

There is a time in all patience when it

becomes weakness ; a time in all endurance
when it becomes cowardice ; then with great
natures patience breaks and becomes force,
endurance rises, and changes into action.

She, proud as great queens are, and blameless
as the saints of the ages of faith, had been
made the sport of the tongues of the world ;
and he who had loved her as knights of old
loved, in suffering and honour, was dead, or
worse than dead.

The fearlessness of her temper leapt to act,
as a lightning-flash springs from the storm-cloud
to illumine the darkness. ' I am not a coward,'
she said with clenched teeth, while her eyes
were dry. She prepared for a long and perilous
journey. She put on all her fur-lined garments.
She took some rolls of gold, and the papers
that proved her identity as the wife of Prince
Zouroff, and would enable her to pass the
frontier into East Prussia. With these, holding
the dog by the collar, she took a lamp in her
hand and passed through the vast, dark, silent
corridors, that were like the streets of a catacomb.
There was no one stirring ; the household

slept the heavy sleep of brandy-drinkers.
No one heard her step down the passages and
staircase. She undid noiselessly the bolts and
bars of a small side door and went out into the
air. It was of a piercing coldness.

It was midwinter and past midnight. The
whole landscape was white and frozen. The
stars seemed to burn in the steel-hued sky.
She went across the stone court to where the
stables lay. She would rouse no one, for she
knew that they would to a man obey their
Prince and refuse to permit her departure
without his written order. She went to the
stalls of the horses. The grooms were all
asleep. She led out the two that she had
driven most often since her residence at
Szarisla. Her childish training was of use to
her now. She harnessed them. They knew
her well and were docile to her touch, and she
put them into the light, velvet-lined sledge in
which she had been used to drive herself
through the fir forests and over the plains.

Her feebleness and her feverishness had
left her. She felt strong in the intense

strength which comes to women in hours of
great mental agony. Her slender hands had
the force of a Hercules in them. She had
driven so often through all the adjacent lands
that the plains were as well known to her as
the moors of Bulmer had been to her in her
childhood. The sledge and the horses' hoofs
made no sound on the frozen snow. She
entered the sledge, made the dog lie covered at
her feet, and, with a word to the swift young
horses, she drove them out of the gates and
into the woods, between the aisles of birch and
pine. The moonlight was strong ; the moon
was at the full. The blaze of northern lights
made the air clear as day. She knew the road
and took it unerringly. She drove all night
long. No sense of mortal fear reached her.
She seemed to herself frozen as the earth was.
The howl of wolves came often on her ears in
the ghastly solitude of the unending lines of
dwarfish and storm-rift trees. At any moment
some famished pack might scent her coming
on the air and meet her, or pursue her, and
then of her life there would be no more

trace than some blood upon the snow, that
fresher snow would in another hour obliterate.
But she never thought of that. All
she thought of was of the voice which for
her was mute for ever.

When in the faint red of the sullen winter's
dawn she arrived at the first posting village
with her horses drooping and exhausted,
the postmaster was afraid to give her other
horses to pass onward. She could show
him no order from Prince Zouroff, but she
had gold with her, and at length induced
him to bring out fresh animals, leaving her
own with him to be sent back on the
morrow to Szarisla. The postmaster was
terrified at what he had done, and shuddered at
what might be his chastisement ; but the gold
had dazzled him. He gazed after her as the
sledge flew over the white ground against the
crimson glow of the daybreak and prayed for
her to St. Nicholas.

Driving on and on, never pausing save to
change her horses, never stopping either to eat
or rest, taking a draught of tea and an atom of

bread here and there at a penthouse, she at
length reached the frontiers of East Prussia.

Correze lay on his bed in his house at Paris.
Crowds, from princes and senators and marshals
to workmen and beggars and street-arabs,
came and asked for him, and the
people stood in the street without, sorrowful
and anxious. For the first news they had heard
was that he would die ; then they were told that
the haemorrhage had ceased, that it was possible
he might live, but that he would never sing
again.

Paris heard, and wept for its darling — wept
yet more for its own lost music.

The days and the weeks went on, and the
first emotion and excitement waned with time.
Then the Crown-prince of Germany came
into the city; there were feasts, reviews,
illuminations. Paris, as she forgot her own
wrongs, forgot her mute singer, lying in his
darkened room ; and the bouquets in his hall
were faded and dead. No one left fresh ones.
Only some score of poor people, amongst them
a blind man and a little ugly girl, hung always,

trembling and sobbing, about his doors, afraid
lest their angel should unfold his wings and
leave them for the skies.

Correze lay in his darkness, dumb.

He had been shot in the throat ; he himself
had fired in the air.

When he had fallen, with the blood filling
his mouth, he had found voice to say to his
adversary : ' Your wife is faultless ! '

Sergius Zouroff had looked down on him
with a cold and fierce contentment.

I have done you the honour to meet you,
but I am not your dupe,' he had said, as he
turned away : and yet in his soul he knew —
knew as well as that the heavens were above
him — that this man, whom he believed to be
dying, spoke the truth.

They had met in the garden of the house
of Correze. They had taken only their seconds
with them. It had all been arranged and over
by sunrise. Sergius Zouroif had hastened out of
the city, and over the frontiers, to make his
peace with his sovereign in his own country.
Correze had been carried into his own house and

laid in his own bedchamber. Their friends,
according to the instructions given them
previously, had sent to the newspapers of the
hour a story of an accident that had occurred
in playing with a pistol ; but it had been soon
suspected that this was but a cover to a hostile
account, and rumours of the truth had soon
run through Paris, where the scene at Bignon's
had been the sensation of the hour.

He lay now in the gloom and silence of his
chamber. Sisters of charity were watching
him : it was twilight there, though outside in
Paris the sun was shining on multitudes of
people and divisions of troops as the city
flocked to a review in the Champ de Mars.

He could not speak ; they would save his life,
perhaps, but he knew that they could never
save his voice.

As a singer he was dead.

All the joys of his art and all its powers
were perished for evermore, all the triumph
and the ecstasy of song were finished as a
tale that was told; all the fame of his life
and its splendour were snapped asunder in their

prime and perfection, as a flower is broken off
in full blossom.

And I did her no good ! ' he thought ; he
had lost all and he had done nothing !

He was half delirious ; his sight languidly
recognised the familiar room about him, and
watched the stray lines of sunshine glimmer
through the shutters ; but his mind was absorbed
and full of dull feverish dreams; he
thought now of St. Petersburg, with the rain
of hot-house flowers on the ice in his nights of
triumph, now of the Norman sunshine with
the common roses blooming against the fence of
furze, now of the bleak snow-plains of Szarisla.
All was confused to him and showed like figures
in a mist. Sometimes he thought that he was
already dead, already in his tomb, and that
about him the crowds of Paris were singing
his own Noel. Sometimes he thought that he
was in hell walking with Dante and with Virgil,
and that devils tried to hold him down as he
strove to cry aloud to Christ : ' Lord, she is
innocent ! '

All the while he was mute ; he could scarcely
breathe, he could not speak.

Unconscious though they thought him, he
heard them say around his bed : ' he may
speak again, perhaps, bat he will never be able
to sing a note.'

They thought him deaf as well as dumb.
But he heard and understood.

In his fever and his suffering he said always
in his heart : ' If only she will think that I
did well ! '

Then he would grow delirious again and
forget, and he fancied that he was called to sing
to the people and that his mouth was closed
with steel.

The wintry sunshine was brilliant and clear ;
it was in the afternoon ; through the dusk of
his room there came the distant sounds of
trumpets, and the boom of the cannon of the
Invalides. All else was still.

All Paris was interested with the pleasure
of a spectacle ; the streets were deserted, the
houses were emptied, all the city was in the
Champ de Mars, and on the cold clear air bursts
of distant sounds from clashing cymbals and
rolling drums came into the chamber of Correze,
whom Paris had forgotten.

At the Gare de ?Est with other travellers
at that moment, there descended from a
sleeping-carriage a woman clothed in furs, and
with a dog in a leash beside her.

She walked quickly, and with a haughty
movement across the crowded waiting-room ;
she was alone except for her dog. Her face
was very white, her eyes seemed to burn as the
stars did in the Polish frost. She was praying
with all the might of prayer in her soul.

She might be too late to see him living ;
too late to tell him that she loved him ; she,
for whose sake, and in whose defence, he had
found death, or worse than death !

All the courage, all the fearlessness, all the
generosity, of her soul had leaped up into life
and movement; she had ceased to remember
herself or the world, she only prayed to heaven,
Grant him his life ! his beautiful life, that is
like sunlight upon earth ! '

She had come across the middle of Europe
in the winter weather, over the snow plains
and the frozen rivers, unaided, unaccompanied,
making no pause, taking no rest either by

VOL. III. e

night or day, as she had come through
Poland.

She descended into the noise and dirt of
the streets ; she who had never been a yard on
foot, or unattended, in a city. The movement
around her seemed to her ghastly and horrible.
Could he lie dying, and the city he loved not
be still and stricken a moment ?

She mingled with the crowds and was soon
lost in them, she who had always gone through
Paris with pomp and splendour ; she at whose
loveliness the mob had always turned to look ;
she who had been the Princess Zouroff.

The day was drawing to its close ; the
troops were returning, the multitudes were
shouting. In his darkened room Correze, disturbed
and distressed by the sounds, moved
wearily and sighed.

The door of his chamber opened and Vere
entered.

She threw her furs and coverings off her as
she moved and came to the sisters of charity.
The lassitude, the weakness, the sickness which
had weighed on her, and suffocated her youth in

her, were gone ; there was a great anguish in
her eyes, but she moved with her old free,
proud grace, she bore herself with the courage
of one whose resolve is taken and whose peace
is made.

I am the woman for whom he fought,' she
said to the nuns. ' My place is with you.'

Then she went to the side of his bed and
kneeled there.

It is I,' she said in a low voice.
From the misty darkness of pain and delirium
his senses struggled into life ; his eyes
unclosed and rested on her face, and had such
glory in them as shone in the eyes of martyrs
who saw the saints descend to them.

He could not speak, he could only gaze at
her.

She bent her proud head lower and lower
and touched his hand with hers.

You have lost all for me. If it comfort
you — I am here ! '

c c 2

In the heart of the Alps of the Valais there lies
a little lake, nameless to the world but beautiful;
green meadows and woods of pine and
beech encircle it, and above it rise the snow
mountains, the glory nearest heaven that earth
knows.

A road winds down between the hills to
Sion but it is seldom traversed ; the air is pure
and clear as crystal, strong as wine ; brooks and
torrents tumble through a wilderness of ferns,
the cattle-maiden sings on the high grass
slopes, the fresh water fisherman answers the
song from his boat on the lake, deep down
below and darkly green as emeralds are.

The singer, who is mute to the world forever,
listens to the song without pain, for he is
happy.

His home is here, above the shadowy water,
facing the grand amphitheatre of ice and
snow, that at daybreak and at sunset flash like
the rose, glow like the fires of a high altar.
It is an old house built to resist all storms, yet
open for the sun and summer. Simple, yet
noble, with treasures of art and graces of colour,
and the gifts of kings, and emperors, and cities,
given in those years that are gone for ever to
Correze. The waters wash its walls, the pine-woods
shelter it from the winds, its terraces
face the Alps.

Here, when the world is remembered, it
seems but a confused and foolish dream, a
fretting fever, a madness of disordered minds
and carling discontent. What is the world
beside Nature, and a love that scarcely even fears
death since it believes itself to be immortal ?

He leans over the stone balustrade of his
terrace and watches the rose-leaves, shaken off
by the wind, drop down into the green water

far below, and float there like pink shells. On
a marble table bj him there lie some pages of
written music, the score of an opera, with
which he hopes to achieve a second fame in
the kingdom of music which knows him no
more. A great genius can never altogether rest
without creation, and he is yet young euDugh
to win the ivy-crown twice over in his life.

In the sunset light a woman, with a dog
beside her, comes out on to the terrace. She
is clothed in white, her face has regained its
early loveliness, her eyes have a serious sweet
luminance ; on her life there will be always the
sadness of a noble nature that has borne the
burden of others' sins, of a grand temper that
has known the bitterness of calumny, and has
given back an unjust scorn with a scorn just
and severe ; those shadows all the tenderness,
the reverence, the religious homage of a man's
surpassing love can never wholly banish from
her.

As with him, amidst his happiness, there
will sometimes arise a wistful longing, not for
the homage of the world, not for his old hours of

triumph, not for the sight of multitudes waiting
on the opening of his lips, but for that
magical power for ever perished, that empire
for ever lost over all the melody of earth, that
joy and strength of utterance, which are now
for ever as dead in him as the song is dead in
the throat of the shot bird, so upon her, for
no fault of her own, the weight of a guilt not
her own lies heavily, and the ineffaceable past
is like a ghost that tracks her steps ; from her
memory the pollution of her marriage never
can pass away, and to her purity her life is forever
defiled by those dead sears, which are like
mill-stones hung about her neck.

She was innocent always, and yet .

When the moths have gnawed the ermine, no
power in heaven or earth can make it ever
again altogether what once it was.

You never regret ? ' Yere says to him, as
they stand together, and see the evening colours
of glory shine on the snow summits.

'I? Regret that I lost the gas-glare to
live in heaven's light ! Can you ask such a
thing?'

Yet you lost so much, and *

I have forgotten what I lost. Nay, I lost
nothing. I passed away off the world's ear
while I was yet great, how well that is — to be
spared all the discontent of decadence, all the
pain of diminished triumphs, all the restless
sting of new rivalries, all the feebleness of a
fame that has outlived itself — how well that
is!'

She smiles; that grave and tender smile
which is rather from the eyes than on the
mouth.

'You say that because you are always
generous. Yet when I think of all I cost you,
I wonder that you love me so well.'

You wonder ! That is because you cannot
see yourself; humility blinds you, as vanity
blinds other women.'

They called me too proud '

Because you were not as they were ; what
could they understand of such a soul as yours ? '

'You understand me and God sees me —
that is enough.'

He takes her hands in his, and his kiss on

them ha-s as reverent and knightly a grace as
that with which he had bent to her feet in the
day of Szarisla.

What is the world to them ? what is the
bray and the tinsel of a mountebank's show to
those who watch the stars and dwell in the
gracious silence of the everlasting hills ?
* * % %

In the bright evening light of the springtime
at the same hour the crowds go down the
Boulevards of Paris. The black horses of Prince
Zouroff go with them ; he is sitting behind them
alone. His face is gloomy, his eyes are sullen.
On the morrow he marries his old friend
Jeanne, Duchesse de Sonnaz.

Russia, which permits no wife to plead
against her husband, set him free and annulled
his marriage on the testimony of servants, who,
willing to please, and indifferent to a lie the
more, or a lie the less, bore the false witness
that they thought would be agreeable to their
lord.

Too late he repents ; too late he regrets ;
too late, he thinks, as alas ! we all think :

Could I have my life back, I would do otherwise
! '

In her own carriage, down the Avenue du
Bois, drives the Duchesse de Sonnaz, with her
children in front of her ; her face is sparkling,
her eyes are full of malice and entertainment ;
the Faubourg finds her approaching marriage
with her lost Paul's old friend, one natural and
fitting. With a satisfied soul she says to herself,
as the setting sun gilds Paris :

Avec un pen d* esprit, on arrive a tout,'

For marriage she does not care, but she loves
a triumph, she enjoys a vengeance — she has
both.

Je ferai danser mon ours she reflects, as
the eyes of her mind glance over her future.

The Princess Nelaguine drives also in her
turn out of the avenue and down the Champs
Elysees ; with her is her old comrade. Count
SchondorfiF, who says to her :

And you alone know your brother's divorced
wife ! Oh, surely Nadine '

I know the wife of Correze ; I know a
very noble woman who was the victim of my

own brother and of Jeanne,' answers the little
Eussian lady with asperity and resolve. * My
dear Fritz, she had no sin against my brother,
no fault in her anywhere, I have told the
Emperor the same thing, and I am not a coward,
though I shall salute Jeanne on both cheeks
tomorrow because life is a long hypocrisy.
Yes, I know Vera. I shall always love her ; and
honour her too. So does the Duchess of Mull.
She was the martyr of a false civilisation, of a
society as corrupt as that of the Borgia, and
far more dishonest. She had chastity, and she
had also courage. We, who are all poltroons,
and most of us adulteresses, when we find a
woman like that gibbet her, pour encourager les
autres*

At the same hour Lady Dolly, too, rolls
home from Hyde Park, and ascends to her little
fan-lined boudoir, and cries a little, prettily,
with her old friend Adine, because she has just
learned that Jura, poor dear Jura, has been
killed in the gun-room at Camelot by the
explosion of a rifle he had taken down as unloaded.


Everything is so dreadful,' she says with
a little sob and shiver. ' Only to think that I
cannot know my own daughter ! And then to
have to wear one's hair flat, and the bonnets
are not becoming, say what they like, and the
season is so stupid ; and now poor dear Jack
has killed himself, really killed himself, because
nobody believes about that rifle being an accident,
he has been so morose and so strange for
years, and his mother comes and reproaches me
when it is all centuries ago, centuries ! and I
am sure I never did him anything but good ! '

Other ladies come in, all great ladies, and
some men, all young men, and they have tea
out of little yellow cups, and sip iced syrups,
and sit and talk of the death at Camelot as they
chatter between the four walls with the celebrated
fans hung all over them, amidst them the
fan of Maria Teresa once sent to Felicite.

She has so much to bear, and she is such
a dear little woman ! ' say all the friends of
Lady Dolly. ' And it is very dreadful for her
not to be able to know her own daughter.
She always behaves beautifully about it, she is

SO kind, so sweet ! But how can she know her,
yon know ? — divorced, and living out of the
world with Correze ! *

So the moths eat the ermine; and the
world kisses the leper on both cheeks.

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY

6POTT18WOODB AND CO., NEW-street 8QCABK

AND PARLIAMENT 8THKF.T

BM
