OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS


D374

V.I

^^V'V^^A

/XK

%\

^U.yVvv AA/^ Ql^

^QW\ J 8*^

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
ore reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

/ pii ■)

L h isis

APR 2 «r ^

■??&'

1S78
f3

FOR CASH ONLY. By James Payn. 3 vols.

Crown 8vo.

THE MARTYRDOM OF MADELINE. By

Robert Buchanan. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. i

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin
McCarthy. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

A HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles

Gibbon. 2 vols. Crown Bvo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tatler.

2 vols. Crown Bvo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

Jl gforp

By OUIDA

amor CH' a NULLO AMATO AMAR Persona'

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

^



&

^

'vel

OP

THOSE HOSPITABLE DOORS

WHICH

THE Etruscan LION GUARDS

• OF AN ETRUSCAN TOMB

"4 TO

T

MY DEAR FRIENDS

THE Story

^^3^



It is needless to recall to the scholar, but
it may be as well to tell the general reader,
that the ' golden warrior ' stretched on a
couch of rock, who vanished as the air
entered the long-closed tomb, was thus
found by Volta in the famous tumuli of
the Montarozzi opened in the year 1823.

CHAPTER I.

[HEPiE was a very busy crowd
gathered in the cathedral square
of garden-girdled Grosser.
It was the end of October, and
the town and all the country round it were
awakening from the summer desolation and
sickness that reif:^n throughout Maremma from
springtime till autumn, whilst all the land is
sunburnt and storm-harassed and fever-stricken,
and no human beings are left in it,
save the tired sentinels at their posts along
the shore, and a few villagers too poor to
get away, sickening amidst the salt and the
seaweed.

VOL. I. B

With late October the forests begin to
glove with a golden tinge or a scarlet flush,
the fever abates and slackens its hold, the
ague-trembling limbs grow stronger, the
north winds come, and the swamps are
healthy with the smell of the sea or the scent
of the woods ; the land that has been baked
and cracked till it looks like dried lava,
or has been soaked by torrential rains till it
is one vast smoking morass, becomes ready
for cultivation.

Then the real life of Maremma begins
; down from the mountains of the
Lucchese and Pistoiese districts labourers
troop by the thousand ; shepherds come
from the hills with long lines of flocks ;
herds of horses and cattle go daily by the
roads ; hunters chase the boar and buck,
and charcoal burners and ploughmen pour
themselves in busy legions over the plains and
the woods.

The country is then full of the men come
from the hills, from far and near, ' il 
con scaiye grosse e cervello jine^ whom
the Maremmano employs, envies, and detests;
brown, erect, healthy, smiling, stalwart;
looking, beside the pale, swollen,
ague shaken creatures, who live here all the

year through, like life beside death. They
are all niountain-borii, and chiefly from
the chestnut-woods of the northern spurs of
the Apennines, Avhere the snow has fallen
already ; here, down' in the green Maremma,
they will, year after year, arrive
all their lives through, to plough, and
harrow, and sow, to hew, and saw, and
burn wood for timber and charcoal, all the
winter long ; and then, after waiting perhaps
for the first hay stacking or wheat harvest,
will go back with the money in their
pockets to reap and plough, and gather
the nuts, and prune the olive on their own
hills; a half nomadic, half home life that
is rough and healthy, changeful and pleasant,
and makes them half vagrant and half
husbandman ; bitter foes and hot lovers ;
faithless ones, too ; for when the Maremma
girl sings of lier lover, he is always some
Pistoiese or Lucchese Ja??i(? from the Apennines,
and the burden of her song is always
one of absence, of doubt, and of inconstancy.


When he goes away with the ricci loads
of summer-grass or grain, he goes to his
own hamlet up high in the chestnut forests
of a healthier land, and it is seldom 

2

deed that he will cast any backward look of
regret to misty Maremma steaming beneath
its torrid suns. And when he comes back
another year there, — then he finds some one
else.

This day in Grosseto there where many
hundreds of these come here for the hiring
by owners and stewards of this perilous yet
fruitful Maremmano soil ; the same men came
for the most part year after year, and were
well known ; the market day was the day to
find masters and make terms for their winter
labours ; and from here they would all
scatter themselves far and wide, north and
south, east and west, on their several roads ;
some to the swamps and the thickets ; some
to the pine and oak woods ; some to the
gea-shore towns for the industries of the
coast ; some to the vast wheat and oat
fields that stretch level and dreary as moorland,
and bring forth the finest grain in all
Italy.

There were o;at]iered together hundreds
and even thousands of them ; but this morning
they had other thoughts besides those
of their hire and wages ; they were
standing under the broad, blue autumnal
sky, patient, and yet eager to see a great

sight : no less a sight than the passing
through Grosseto of the brigand-chief of
Santa-flora — Saturnino Mastarna.

The news of his capture had startled
the town at miduii«;ht when the carabiniers
had ridden in, thirty strong, with a man
bound hard and fast in the midst of them ;
and the Grosseto citizens, for the most part
in their beds, had lit their lanterns hurriedly,
and thrown open their casements as the
tramp of the horses and the clatter of the
weapons had awakened them from sleep.

They have captured some poor soul ! '
the good folks had said with a sigh of sympathy
and regret, and had murmured to each
other mournfully, ' e il nostra Saturnino ! '

As the troop of guards had passed under
the Avails of their dull little city, a torch
here and there flickering on their naked
sabres and the barrels of their short carbines,
and a moonbeam here and there glistening
on the whiteness of their cross-belts and the
foam on the manes of their horses, there had
been few in Grosseto who did not pity the
captive in their midst, with his arms tied
tightly by cords behind his back ; few who
did not for his sake wish the troopers a
sudden death and a bad one,

When the trot of the charters and the
dash of the steel had passed into silence,
and the town had lapsed into its wonted
quietude, the burghers of Grosseto putting
out their lanterns had sighed : ' Quel povero
Satuimino^ Aie I Che jjeccato ! ' For Maremma
had always adored her Saturnine,
and it regretted his capture very
greatly ; he had never done any harm, he
had only robbed the rich, and killed a
foreigner now and then ; he had been a holy
man, and the priests had always been the
better for anything he had done ; and he
had been so precious as a theme for talk in
the long dreary winter nights, in the still
longer, still drearier, summer days.

Without Saturnino Mastarna, the Maremma
would be more than ever desolate.

The province had always been full of
sympathy with its great robber, whose
popular boast it was that he never had
wronged any poor man. All the creatures
of the law, soldiers, guards, coastguards,
and carabiniers, were hated and shunned
throughout the province ; got help from
none, and were, again and again, baffled
and laughed at by the shrewd finesse of the
people in the "woods, and on the shores. To

cheat a shirro was a loyal task that brought
praise and honour to whosoever had accomplished
it.

Therefore for years the seizing of Saturnine
had been impossible, and scarcely even
desired by the authorities, so great an unpopularity
was his capture certain to produce.


But at the last the brigand had crown
too audacious : he had seized foreigners of
note, and foreign governments had bestirred
themselves, and it had been thought needful
to show some vigour and vigilance against a
mocker of the law who would stride about
in the towns of the Maremma in festal
bravery, secure of immunity, and. boasting
that no ruler of them all would dare to touch
him. Troops had been put in motion ; municipalities
arraigned by ministers, and at
last it was felt that the great days of Saturnine
Mastarna must be numbered.

The Government had been told by foreign
nations that it behoved its own honour not
to leave him at large any longer. So strenuous
efforts had been made all summer
through, and the hill sides had swarmed with
scouts and sharpshooters, and at last on one
misty October night, the State had been one

too many for its wary and ferocious son, and
Saturnino, asleep and heavy with wine, had
been surprised, and after bitter and murderous
resistance been vanquished, and dragged
from where he dwelt amongst the clouds of
the mountain's top, where Monte Labbro
reared its silver summit to the whiteness of
the moon.

All men of the Maremma had been proud
that their province boasted so dread a name
as Saturnino's : a name sweeping clear, like
a scythe, all the country side of travellers,
and resounding even down to the very walls
of Some.

That terrible shape and rumour up
there in the mountain-labyrinths above the
stormy Flora water had lent mystery and
majesty to the land ; had hung a dread tale
to every wayside bush along the lone sea-roads
and haunted every thicket of mastic
and laurel that grew above the old ways of
Porsenna's kingdoms. They had been proud
of Saturnino, the great Saturnino, at the
lifting of whose voice all the wet grass upon
a summer's nigh!: would grow suddenly alive
with gleaming eyes, and flashing firelock,
as though he called men up from the very
stones to do his bidding,

All men in Grosseto this autumn day
were talking of that one theme : Saturnino
of Santa Fiora — il gran' Saturnino !

So they murmured with one accord,
leaving business, and bargains, to crowd together
and tell the tale over a thousand times
and in a thousand different ways, and. agree
amongst each other, cordially and with many
an oath, that to have captured Saturnino and
slung him across a horse's back, with heels
tied together like any sheep's, was a sin and
shame in the executive.

For Saturnino had been their hero, looming
«: as lahore as sods loom in the mist of
myths. ' He was a man ! ' they muttered one
to another : and then the natives of the little
city seized the strangers who came down for
the first time from the Lucchese hills, and told
them wondrous tales in passionate high-vibrating
voices, and cried a hundred times :

Do your mountains breed the like ?
Nay, not they. There is but one Saturnino.
Never would he hurt the poor. Nay, not a
poor soul in the land but had him for a
friend. And a dutiful man too has he always
been. When he came down into the towns,
straightway would he go to the church and
be shriven, and to the Madonna lie would

send always half the jewels that he might
light upon : a good man and a great ! And
now, see you, oh the pity of it ! They have
trapped him and taken him, like any greenfinch
in a net. Well, he will not be forgotten.
We weill tell our children's children.'

Then, as talk is always thirsty work, they
would go in and drink a good rough red
wine, with the Lucchese and Pistoiese
strangers, wherever some green bough hung
out over a doorway, and over the wine tell
how a waggon full of barrels of Neapolitan
Lacrima had been stopped but last week by
Saturnino on the Orbetello road, and the
Avaggoner, because a crusty and persuade
obstinate, had been left in the dust with
his feet cut off, Saturnino being intolerant
of obstinacy.

Meanwhile the yellow autumnal sun
shone on the grey stones of Grosseto, and
bells clanged, nodes brayed, horses champed,
swords clattered, and towards the doors of
the prison a fresh squadron of carabiniers,
come to replace the jaded escort of Saturnino,
rode slowly across the square amidst the
muttering of the hostile people. What
mattered the wine-carrier? He had been
only a Eomagnolo.

Besides, all Maremma knew that it was
not for the wine-carrier at all that their
demi-god had been hunted down, but for a
stranger, that no one cared about except
the Government ; a traveller that Saturnino
had shot in a paroxysm of jealous rage, and
who had been a person of distinction enough
for the nation to which he belonged to
demand that justice should be done on his
assassin. The stranger had been Avaitinfij fora
ransom to be sent, and had looked at the
beautiful Serapia who dwelt with Saturnino
too long or too boldly, and Saturnino without
waste of words had blown his brains out ;
a rash act of violence which had become his
own undoing.

And now he had been taken ; taken
just like any common thief who robbed an
old dame of a copper coin ; taken by those
general foes, the soldiery, and brought down
into the lower lands with his feet tied under
a horse's belly, as helpless as though he were
a kid in a butcher's hands. They where restless,
curious, passionately eager to see and
hear ; but there was only one emotion
amonf^^st them — reine. A regret which was
full of resentment, and sympathy, and indignation,
and which would have burned fiercer

and higher, and become revolt and rescue
had not the military force been strong, and
the mounted guards many.

All the multitude was awed and chilled.
A heavy sense of the power of the law, of
a law which they had no sympathy for, and
which they feared with the angry fear of
impatient resentment, was weighty upon
them, like a sheet of lead.

Many of them were sensible of more or
less close abetting of the hill thieves, more
or less passive or active interest in the lawless
acts of the band of Santa Flora. Many a
tradesman there had never sought too curiously
to knoAv how the black-browned seller
of rich brocades or costly jewellery had come
by them, or how foreign gold had found its
way to sunburnt, powder-blackened hands.

Even those to whom the great Saturnino
Alas but a name, the youngsters come down
for work from the high villages of the Carra-rest
and Lucchese ranges, were unbounded
and regretful. Saturnino had always been
the friend of the forester and the ploughman
and the shepherd ; the lads felt that when
no more tales could be told of the king]: of
Maremma, savour would be gone out of the
goats flesh roasted in the charcoal in the

woods, and the wine flask passed round when
the last of the \o\m furrows had been turned
across the plains.

In a gloomy silence, broken only by
gloomier muttering of the crowd, the carabiniers
drew rein before the prison.

The closely-packed, loudly chattering
groups of men, few women amongst them
but many in the doorways of houses and
churches, stood gathered together to see him
brought out and taken on his next stage to
the tribunal of Massa, where his trial was to
take place. They were all sorrowful. None
blamed him. None thought him a criminal.

Poveretto I he had lived a bold, vigorous,
manfid life up yonder on the snow-capped
hills above the foaming Flora and down in
the deep, dark ravines where the Flora water
rolls, and in the rich vale of the Aliena,
and on the treeless lands that stretch away to
Ostia far down in the south.

He had been a fierce fellow, indeed, and
a terror to all travellers, and many a tale of
his ferocity to captives was told from mouth
to mouth along the marshy shores of the
Maremma, and in the huts of the shepherds
on its moors ; but the travellers were
all strangers, and the captives all ricci men,

for from the poor he had never been known
to levy a crust or a coin, and the sympathy
of the crowds Alas wholly with him
as they hung about the cathedral walls and
outside the warehouse doors, waiting until
the prisoner should come out with the strong
guard that was to march him to his trial at
Massa ; which would, they knew, certainly
end in his condemnation to the mines of the
south or the prisons on the little island that
was then glancing to amethyst and gold in
the glory of the sunset light, away there to
the west on the seas they could not see.

They had not to wait very long. As the
time grew near, the people became very
quiet in the hush of expectation.

For many and many a year to come, the
imagination of the Italian people will be
always captivated and blinded by the bastard
heroism of the brigand ; he is born
of the soil and fast rooted in it ; he has
the hearts of the populace with him ; and
his most precious stronghold is in their sympathy,
from which no laws and no logic of
their rulers can dislodge him yet.

Saturnino Mastarna was to all the Maremma
shore a hero still.

A few quiet citizens of Grosseto apart.

the people looking on were all for him,
and muttered menaces of the guards. The
mountaineers and woodcutters, and rough
labourers of all kids that had come down
into the town, were most of them men
to whom ' to take to the hills ' seemed a
bold and right thing to do ; most of them
would Lave been not unwilling? to trv it themselves
; many of them had been often in secret
league and complicity with the terrorism
which was no terror to them, because it
only struck the rich and never harmed the
poor. They would have all been willing
to rescue the doomed man, but they paused
doubtfully : no one taking the lead.

Poveretto ! Poveretto I ' they all muttered
in regret for him ; and had there been an
adventurous spirit amidst them to advise his
rescue, those gathered labourers of the forests
and the plains might have been formidable
in their resistance to the law.

But the Italian loves to talk ; he loves
not equally to act. And so they stood there.,
sullen, sympathetic, but inert, as the prison
gates opened, and the carabiniers rode outwith
Saturnino in their midst.

The autumnal floods had for the time
rendered the railway that runs through Gros-set,

from north to south, impassable, and
the carabiniers had had their orders to ride
with him through the twenty odd miles that
were under water. It was thought well that
the folk of Grosseto, whose traders were
suspected of collusion with the brigand, by
the purchase of many of his stolen treasures,
should see the famous marauder in
this sorry plight in their streets. Further
south, such a spectacle would have provoked
a rescue, or at least a riot ; but, in
Grosseto, blood ran more quietly and more
soberly, and the multitude waiting there only
muttered a curse or two as the little troop of
horsemen passed out of the court of the
prison and came in sight.

With his legs tied beneath his horse,
Grosseto saw its fallen hero.

He was in his own mountaineer's dressa
sheepskin jacket, breeches of untanned
leather, a sash of brilliant crimson, weather
stained, a broad-leafed hat with golden tassels,
and in its band a little gold image of Our
Lady. At his throat, too, was a Madonna.
His pistols, his knife, his earrings, they had
taken away from him ; but these little images
his captors had left him, from a charitable
feeling" that it was as well to leave the man,

in such a strait as this, all such aid as he
could have from heaven.

His great black eyes were sombre and
terrible ; his dark locks hung to his throat,
slightly curling, for he had been vain of his
good looks ; his lips were rich and red ; his
features straight and handsome ; his brow
was low, his chest and his limbs were massive.
He was the true robber-chief of romance.

Who could say what blood ran in his
veins ? His name was the old Etruscan
name that had once been that of Service
Nullius ; he had been the son of wild mountain
hunters ; who could say what blood of
omnipotent Lucumo, of aruspex weighted
with the secrets of the stars, of languid and
luxurious Lydian, of lustful lord of Sardis,
might not be in him, hot and cruel and
lascivious ? The Etruscan name had been
his forefathers' for hundreds of years counted
on the hills.

Is that truly Saturnino who is taken ? '
asked an old woman on the edge of the
piazza, a tall gaunt woman with blue eyes
and snow-white hair, who had a different
accent and look to those of the crowd.

Aye, mother, that it is,' the man nearest
to her answered sorrowfully.

VOL. I. c

Grosseto knew him well. He had loved
to ruffle it, in all his finery, on feast days,
in its wine shops and on its public ways, in
open bravado and scorn of the power of the
law to touch him.

Dear God ! ' she muttered, ' how are
the mighty fallen ! Only the other day and
his name was a terror that made the very
dead quake in their graves.'

And she pushed a little nearer to see
better.

It is verily he ! ' said the crowds now
wistfully gazing up at this fallen majesty,
bound there on his horse's saddle, with the
muzzle of a trooper's carbine resting on
either side of him, as the little band halted
for a moment in the midst of the cathedral
square while the captain bade farewell to the
syndic of the town. ' It is verily he ! ' they
sighed, and were full of regret. What would
Maremma be without its Saturnino ?

Ay, it is he ! ' said the old woman,
bending her piercing eyes upon the face of
Mastarna. She was a plain-featured, clear-skinned
^voman, much beaten about by sea-winds
and scorched by poisonous suns ; but
she had a frank, straight, and even noble
regard. She dwelt on the low shores of

Maremma, but in her youth she • had com-from
the Alpine ranges of Savoy.

She looked at Saturnino as she stood on
the edge of the crowd, and said, ' Ay, ay, it
is he ! '

You have seen him before, mother ? ' said
an eager youth, who had come from the
Apennines to go and make charcoal in the
Ciminian woods away yonder to the southeast.


'Ay, ay,' she said briefly, and said no
more, being a woman of few words, dio,
though she had dwelt here fifty years,
was always called the woman of Savoy, and
deemed an alien and a stranger.

She was standing near the troop of horsemen,
clad in a russet gown, with a yellow
handkerchief tied about her white hair. The
brigand was sitting in his saddle, sullen,
sombre, ashamed : ashamed to be brought
thus amidst the people, like a netted calf,
like a yoked bull.

The old woman with the keen blue
eyes, and the face that had once been fair,
looked with the rest, and though she was an
honest woman, law-abiding. God-fearing, her
heart also was heavy for this hawk of the
bills that for ever was caged.

c 2

She had been a woman of many sorrows,
to whom death had been unkind, and a
little son of her dead daughter's had been
all that had been left to her of the children
of her blood. And one day the little lad had
been lost, going with his goats on the high
passes above the Albegna valley, and there
had been found by the dread Saturnino,
asleep, and frozen, where the snows were
deep, and Saturnino, who never hurt the
poor, had taken him up in his arms and
carried him to his own lair miles away, and
there fed and tended him, and next day
sent him down by one of his own men into
his native village safe and sound, and with
twenty broad gold pieces in his little woollen
breeches.

She, being a brave woman and a holy
one, no sooner found her one lost lamb thus
than she took the most precious thing she
had, an image of Our Lady, that had been
blessed by God's Vicegerent, and slipped
that and the gold coins in her pouch, and
said to the mountaineer who had brought
her boy, ' Lead me to your chief that I
may thank him.'

The man demurred .and was afraid, but
finally she prevailed, and he took her back

with him, a long and toilsome tramp up into
the hills, staying one night at a cabin on the
way, and when they started on the morrow
blindfolding her eyes that she should not see
whither she went.

When the handkerchief was lifted she
was in the presence of Saturnino, whose
eyes, according to the people's tales, could
send out flame and burn up those on whom
his rage lighted.

But she was not afraid. She took out
of her pouch the holy image and the gold
pieces, and she held them both out to him.

Saturnino,' she said to him, ' I have
come up hither to bless you with my own
voice, for you have restored to me the only
little having thing I have to love, and night
and day I will pray to the saints to have
you in their holy keeping. And I have
brought you the only bit of value that I
own — a Madonna that our Holy Father
blessed — and do you ])\\i it by a string
about your throat, and it will keep the
thoughts and hopes of heaven with you.
But this gold that you gave to my boy I
bring you back, because I know too well,
alas ! alas ! how all your gold is gained.'
The men standing around thought that

he would cut her clown with a stroke of his
sword straight through skull and throat.
But he did not harm her. He took the
image meekly like a chidden child, and the
gold pieces he dashed in the snow.

A brave soul ! ' he said of her, and she
blessed him once more, and kissed his hand
that had sent many a one to an untimely
death, and took her homeward way again,
praying silently that the holy hosts of heaven
might be about his steps and win him from
his sin.

Since that time, when she had gone up
into his very lair, she had not seen Saturnine.
Twenty years had gone hj. The little
boy that he had saved had died of fever —
the ghastly fever that walks these shores all
summer through like the ghost of dead
Etruria.

Twenty years had gone by, and Saturnine,
from a young and generous man who,
although fierce and terrible, could be merciful
and just, had grown year by year a
deeper terror, a reader name ; not to Maremma
still, for still he spared the poor, but
to the law and state. More murders lay
upon his soul than he had time to count ;
his will, which was unchecked by those

around, and unbridled by any fear of consequence
or qualm of conscience, had grown
overbearing, intolerant, exacting, and capricious
almost to madness.

Amongst his many loves he had conceived
a violent passion for the woman whom he
had carried off and kept up in his mountain
lair by force : that most beautiful Serapia,
of whom the stranger waiting for his ransom
had been too amorous. Serapia had died,
and after her loss all that there had been of
any softness in the nature of the man had
been burnt out under the fires of his hatred
of fate and rebellion against his misery ; lie
had become a monster of cruelty, having in
him the same temper as of old made the
tyrants of Padova and Verona and Brescia
the scourges of their generation. Even his
men had begun to grow disloyal under the
iron heel of his unendurable despotism, and
the treachery of one of these had delivered
him over into the chains of the State at
wliicli he had laughed in secure defiance for
so long.

Yet the hearts of the folk in Gros-set
were sad for his fate, and the old
woman with the northern eyes said to her
neighbours : ' Nay, I am sorry he has been

taken. You remember how he saved my
Carling. Always I have hoped that with
time and my prayers Saturnino woukl some
day turn to an honest life.'

-Nay, mother,' said a Pistoiese, ' of a fox
never can you make a house-dog. The pity
is that such a man had not luck to the end
to die of a shot or a sword-thrust out on his
own hills.'

The people murmured assent ; that would
have been fitting enough certainly. But the
galleys ! For Saturnino to be chained and
numbered, set to work with an axe or a
spade in dockyard or on highway, cowed
with the whip of the overseer, and pointed
out like a wild beast to strangers, that
seemed hard.

The thought of it made the blood
curdle and grow cold in their veins with
the fear of that law which could work this
miracle.

If one may not kill the man who covets
our ganza^ what use are powder and shot ? '
said the men of Grosseto.

Suddenly the old woman of the north
put her hand into her pocket, drew out a
piece of money, pushed her way to a wine-shop
a few yards behind her, bought a

stoup of the best wine, and came out with
it. She went straight up to the carabiniers,
and said to them :

Yon man did me a good turn once.
Will you let me give him this to wet his
lips ? A good man he is not ; but he was
good once.'

The guards hesitated. They were not
churlish ; they had a lingering sympathy
themselves for their prisoner, who had been
taken in a snare at the last, after having been
the hero of all Maremma twenty-five years
and more, since he had been a mere lad
when he had first captured a great English
milord, and had let him go with only the
loss of one ear cut off, in consideration of
a ransom of thirty thousand scud.

Saturnino, sitting with his head erect, and
his great black eyes blazing in a scorn he
strove to assume, that he might hide the
bitter shame at his heart, heard the voice of
the woman, and glanced at her.

The carabines on his right side, relenting,
held the wine towards his mouth. The
brigand's hands were tied behind his back, or
he would have dashed the pewter cup down.
As it was, he would not drink ; but his
sombre eyes dwelt on the woman.

Let her speak to me,' he said.

The carabiniers were ill-disposed to obey,
but they saw that the crowd was eager and
full of pity for Saturnino. They were afraid
to irritate, since they had not gagged, him ;
and, after all, a woman could do no harm.

One of them moved, so as to let her in
between his horse and that of the captive.
He kept the muzzle of the cocked carbine
pointed against her ; but she was a brave
woman ; she did not heed that.

Drink my wine, Mastarna,' she said to
him, and lifted the cup herself.

Is it you, Joconda ? ' he said.

But he did not drink.

It is Joconda,' she said cin^tly, ' How
came you in this plight ? '

I was betrayed,' said the brigand, while
his great despairing eyes flashed as a knife
that is raised to kill flashes in the light, and
he said it more truthfully than many greater
conquered conquerors who excuse their own
feebleness and lack of forecast by the plea of
treachery. He had been betrayed, and seized
as he had sat drinking at sunset at the door
of his hut in the hills.

Joconda, I saved your lamb,' he said,
after a pause.

You did. You are a butcher ; but you
saved my lamb. That is why I am sorry
to-day.'

Save my lamb, then.'

Have you one ? '

I have one that I love. She is Serapia's
child. I loved her mother, and her mother
is dead. Go and save her! '

Where is she ? '

Up yonder,' he answered, with a backward
gesture of his head to where, in the
haze of the far distance, the snowy hills of
his own lair lay. ' Any one will tell you on
the hills. Ask for the Eocca del Giulio.
They seized me ; my men fought, but they
killed them. She was with women ; but
they may have fled. Will you find her,
and bring her up in your house ? '

The face of the old woman grew weary
and perplexed.

It will be a burden, Mastarna.'

Ay, it will. Do as you choose. But
she is little and alone.'

The woman paused and mused.

I will take her if I can find her,' she
said at length.

Across the bold, sombre, fierce face of
the fettered man a strong emotion swept.

Lift your wine to my mouth,' he said.
I will drink it now.'
And he drank.

'Loosen the image from my hat. She
has the same about her throat ; her mother
hung them both. I have your Madonna
still at mine,' he muttered, when he had
drained the cup.

She put one foot on the stirrup, for
she was strong and active, though old ;
loosened the golden image, and detached it
from its place. At that moment the officer
in charge of the escort, arriving in haste, reproved
his men in fury, and the horses started
so suddenly that she could scarcely save herself
from falling between their legs and being
trampled to pieces on the stones.

By good fortune she escaped injury, and
only fell on her knees, and rose again unhurt.
The troop of carabiniers were trotting out
of the square, their carbines pointed at the
head of Saturnino.

They soon vanished in the golden haze of
the rising sun.

A hundred hands were stretched to touch
her ; a hundred questions rained on her ear.

What did Saturnino tell you, mother ? '
cried the Grosseto folk jealously, for they

had been so kept at musket's length by the
guards that no one had heard a syllable of
what had been said.

I knew him years agone,' she answered,
'and he bade me hang this image in some
chapel, that Our Lady may have grace to
him. Nay, hands off; it shall go where he
told me. And he whom you call your
Saturnino needs heaven's mercy sorely; for
he was a murderer many times — many times.'

For these were her foolish notions, she
being a woman from the north.

More they could not get out of her. She
carried the empty wine-cup back to the wine-shop,
and then made her way quietly out of
the square by a narrow lane.

The people stood about in a silent, sad,
sullen mob ; discomfited and dissatisfied with
themselves that they had not struck a blow
for their hero.

Saturnino Mastarna had been a robber ;
and, as she had justly said, a murderer many
times. He had swooped down on the lonely
mountain paths above the mountain-born
Flora, and along the once consular and imperial
highway that runs through Orbetello
and Civitas Vecchia to Rome, even as the
pseudoetus eagle of these hills swoops down

from his cliff-nest, made of oak leaves and
olive boughs, on to the water-fowls of the
pools, until the daring and the frequency of
his captures had made his name a household
word that had rung far and wide beyond
the confines of Maremma.

Therefore Maremma had been proud of
him ; proud in a fierce, defiant way that had
given him many a nameless ally amidst the
scattered gentry of all that wild and lonesome
country, and even here in old grave
Grosseto, a score of miles away from the
foaming waters of the Flora, people had
felt the same pride in him, and now, as the
trot of the horses and the clangour of
weapons died away into silence, there were
regret and a smothered rage in the populace
to think that their hero should have been
brought through their streets with his feet
tied under the belly of his horse, to go to the
galleys of Gorgonaa or the salt mines of Sardinia,
and be no more seen of men, although
for years and years to come the story of his
exploits would be told from mouth to mouth
wherever a group of woodmen sat about the
forest fires at night, or a couple of fishermen
wiled the becalmed day away with talk, orin
the winter evenings in farmhouses faraway

on the Luccliese hills men and maidens
munched the chestnuts with white teeth.

A great stillness and gloom fell on the
populace, and the tongues of the people for
once ceased to buzz and scream, and were
only heard in a few rebellious muttering
against the State, which took a frank freebooter
like a rat in a trap and dealt with
him as it dealt with any paltry thief of
the cities. Saturnino was gone : a deadman,
or worse than a dead man, and nevermore
would his native Maremma thrill with
the Homeric tales of his acts ; never more
would this town of Grosseto see him stride
through their public places with his pistols
and knife in his broad red sash, and his
bold black eyes full of challenge and
scorn.

It was all over, like wine spilt on the
ground ; henceforth the Maremma would speak
of him only with bated breath, and memories
half glorious, half sad, like the memories
of dead heroes, Saturnine Mastarna was
gone ; seized by the impalpable, far-reaching,
spectral ami of the law, which to a rustic
and simple people is so vaguely terrible, so
unjust, so incomprehensible, coming out, as
it seems to them to do, from the infinite

and the unknown to seize them for their
secret sins.

He was gone, and there was little mirth
in Grosseto that day, though usually the
October weeks are full of merriment and business,
of song and dance, of bargains made,
and of wine drunk, and of gladness at the
coming winter, and of sportive love offered
and returned. But this day the crowds
were dull and vexed, and looking in each
other's faces read one unspoken thought
there, common to all : —

We should have rescued him ! '

meanwhile Joconcla Eomanelli,
the woman who had had the
courage to speak a bold word for
his sake, left the town to itself
and prepared to return on her homeward
way to her village of Santa Tarsilla, a long
way off upon the coast, a low-lying sickly
sea-shore place.

Twice a year regularly lie yoked her mule
to her cart and drove into Grosseto, making
a two days' journey on the road each way,
on purpose to sell the homespun linen she
had woven from thread she had spun in the
six months' time. She knew a hosier in
Grosseto who only sold ' nosirair linen, and
gave her a fair price for hers at spring and
autumn. She thought him honest than
Orbetello folk, so made the longer drive
ttcrdss the wild and loiiGly country.

VQI I, D

She went now to the tavern where
she had slept, and where her mule "was put
up, harnessed him with her own hands, and
drove out of the city gates with her hardly-earned
gains in a bag amongst the hay and
straw at her feet.

She went over the flat desolate lands
that lie cheerlessly and barrenly about Gros-set,
past the lime quarries of Alberese,
over the narrow ill-made roads that traverse
the marshes, and over the rivers by ford or
ferry or bridge, and underneath hills dark
with forest where the buck and the boar
roamed at liberty. She drove as long as it
was light, then reached a miserable little inn,
but a friendly one, and slept there ; then at
dawn resumed her homeward way.

She drove on and on, the old mule
ambling slowly, for he only had long journeys
twice a year, and resented them mournfully ;
the moss and the marshes, the wide fields
lying red and bare for the plough, and the
little knots of pale dust-coloured houses that
made the villages of the hillsides, were
passed in succession until she got across
country and down to the level of the sea,
and saw little else save stunted aloes and
sand, though the distance was dark with

the outskirts of the retreating Apennines,
and the woods upon the Giulio island rose
up in sight.

When she could see the isle she hath
reached her home, an old house of stone
and oak timber standing near the wharf of
the small township of Santa Tarsilla, on a
little bay, that scholars affirmed had once
been, like its neighbours Telamone and
Populonia, a port of those sea-kings, the
Etruscans.

In this little bay some small traffic in fish,
and in the stone and charcoal from inland,
kept the little place from absolute stagnation
and death ; but in the summer nearly all its
few souls fled away, and in summer no coasting
smack cared to lie by its little quay.

For it was full of miasma and fever in the
hot season, like all these places on the low
Maremma coast ; even now in the late days
of October the fever mists still hung about it,
the pools and the beach still sent out noxious
vapours, the scanty population sat about
listless and shivering, the children lay on the
sand too weak to care to play, and there
were but two or three of them in all the
place ; a few fishermen were out upon the
shore, a coastguardsman paced to and fro, a

p 2

little vessel was shipping grain, anchored
amongst the mud-choked shoals : that was all.

It was a dreary place at the best of
times ; antiquaries said that the sea had
receded nearly a mile since the days when
the Etruscan pirates had sailed from that
bay, and Etruscan colonies had had their
fortresses and their tombs away yonder where
the shore line grew dusky with thickets of
bay and rosemary and the prickly mariicca,
or holy thorn so common here.

'You are safe home, mother?' said the
pallid women, as the mule of Joconda picked
his way amidst the stones and sand to his
own house door.

Aye, the saints be praised,' said Joconda,
and said no more.

They knew the woman of Savoy never
chattered, and that it was useless to ask
from her gossip of Grosseto until she had
stabled her beast and broken her fast, and of
not very much use after that. Joconda went
on to her own dwelling ; it was all of stone
with a roof of red tiles; it was old and
spacious, and had pointed casements and a
massive oak door ; her living-room and her
bed-chamber were all the rooms she used

Pallium aneiraUs>

the next room she had given to her mule
and her poultry, and a fine black pig.
The floors were of stone, and the ceilings
too ; there was an open hearth that served
her for cooking ; the hearth now was
cold.

She first put her money into a secret
place, stabled her mule, counted her fowls,
to be sure none were stolen, and then lit
a little fire and put on a pot of vegetable
soup. Then she sat down and thought
while her frugal supper was simmering.

She did not tell anyone of what she had
seen, and heard, and promised in Grosseto.
She was not a sociable woman, and she had
only neighbours, no friends.

Joconda Eomanelli had been taciturn
and grave for forty years ; ever since one
summer day, when her man had gone down
in a white squall, like that which wrecked
Shelley. She had loved the man, and had
been sternly faithful to him and to the
offspring he had left her. She had always
got her own living by carrying cargo to
the coasters for her husband's comrades,
and taking her linen into Grosseto ; in bad
weather she sat at home and span, or
made fishing nets and sewed sails. She wag

active and very hardy ; lie lived honestly,
and in a stern, cleanly fashion that made her
village people think her odd and be a little
afraid of her. Her sons had died of the
marsh fever and her daughter had left her a
motherless grandson, a bold fair boy, the lamb
that Saturnino had saved ten years before
when the boy had gone up with his goats into
the mountains ; for which mercy Joconda
and her lad had blessed him every day and
night they told their beads.

But though Saturnino had spared the
boy, the fever had not done so ; and ever
since his death Joconda had dwelt alone with
her dead memories. She had been a sad
woman always, but she was a strong one.
She worked for her living, and owed nobody
a bronze piece, and was half respected and
half feared, which she liked better than being
loved.

Fifty years before she had been brought
here from her mountain home fronting the
high chain of the Grand Paradis by her husband
after a fishing cruise to the seaboard
of lower Savoy, and the tradition of her
northern birth made her still * a stranger ' to
the people of Santa Tarsilla and all the low-lying
shore. She had never seen Savoy for

nigh fifty years, but she was * the woman of
Savoy ' to them all.

It had been a fatal day for her when her
mother's sister, a farmer's wife near S. Martin
Lantosque, had lost her cows one by one by
disease, and sent to beg that her niece, who
was so skilled in dairy matters, would go
and spend a summer with her ; and in the
course of that summer, up at Lantosque, to
visit mountain' neighbours, there had come
some seafaring men from Villafranca, away
on the seaboard, and amongst them had
been a man of Maremma, Sostegno Eoma-
nellie, the owner of a tartan then lying off
the shores of Savoy. He had been a handsome
young man, and at that time well-to-do
as a coaster ; he had persuaded the blue-eyed
maiden from the green alps above the
Val de Cogne to give a favourable answer to
his wooing. She and he had been wedded
that same summer at the little church of
S. Martin, and she had gone to live with
him at his native Mariana town.

Tidings had done very well with them
awhile ; then turned and went as ill. The
tartan had to be sold, and its owner had to
become a deep-water fisherman, working for
the gain of others. His wife, ashamed of

their troubles, which her own people had
predicted, ceased to write to the chalet
under the arolla forests.

They were homely people there on the
pine-clad heights above Cogne, but there
was always a homely plenty, and no penury
touched them. They were good-hearted,
but hard of mind and scanty in sympathy.
She could never bring herself to tell them
that she had married into poverty, and was
sick to death of this fatal shore to which
her Maremmano had brought her. So silence
fell between her and her own family, and upon
the mountain slopes that faced the Grand
Paradis her brothers and sisters ceased to
remember and ceased to regret her.

She slept a little now over her supper,
being weary ; she was woke by neighbours'
voices ; women were looking in at her window
and tapping at it, being" unable any
longer to subdue their eagerness for news.

'Is it true that Saturnino has been
taken, good mother ? ' they asked her.

Ay, ay, why not ? ' she answered
crossly. ' He has been taken.'

Did you see him in Grosseto ? '

Yes, the poor soul ! with his legs tied
under the horse's belly.'

Oh, the hard pity of it ! ' mourned the
gossips with a wail.

He has got his deserts,' said Joconda.
A fine long time he has been loose on these
hills. Luck always changes.'

It was that foreign man that made the
fuss,' the women muttered. ' He must
have been some great prince, else never
would they have captured Saturnino for
his misfortune.'

Misfortune ' was their fine way of speaking
; they knew well that the traveller had
been foully murdered.

He killed the foreigner,' said Joconda
curtly. ' He had killed scores. That one
was the one too much. That was all.'

The women at the window muttered
that this was just the caprice and injustice
of the government and the soldiers ; a
murder more or less (if it were a murder),
did it matter so much? Saturnino was a
fine bold man, and never had harmed the
poor.

Why, he had good about him,' assented
Joconda. ' But murder is not a good thing ;
I wish he had had other ways of living.
Alas ! poor soul ! upon that rock of Gorgonaa
his crimes will be cold comfort to him.'

'And that is true,' said the gossips,
crossing themselves ; ' did you speak to him,
mother? Was there any chance to say a
word ? '

Yes ; I spoke to him.'

What did he say to you ? '

He reminded me of my dead lamb, and
I told him I had not forgot my debt.'

Was that all ? '

Yes ; get you to your beds ; I want to
get to mine.'

And she nodded to them, and shut her
latticed casement behind its wire grating,
and shut out the sight of the moonlit sea,
and the shining sands that hid her dead.
She heard them under her house wall on
the edge of the beach, for the night was still
young, talking still of the hero of the hills
and of his fate. She heard the deeper tones
of a man's voice strike across theirs and say :

No bolder soul ever lived than Saturnine
Mastarna. They have taken him, and
they will cage him out on Gorgonaa yonder,
or send him to the King's mines. If man
could free him, I would free him. What did
he do ever ? Did he steal from the poor ?
No. Did he rob the church ? No. Did ever
a peasant miss his sheep, or a woodman

his wallet ; or a labourer that had got his
wages in his waistband, was he ever lightened
of them by Saturnino ? Nay, never. That
we know. We have come and gone on
his mountains and never were we the worse.
When old Montino was lost in the snow on
Santa Flora, what did Mastarna do when he
found him ? Took him to his own hut, and
warmed, and fed him, and gave him of the
best, and when he saw that old Montino had
a bag of gold pieces with him, said to him,
Fear nothing ; neither I nor my men will
touch your gold, because you are an old
man and a steward, and the loss would get
you blamed by your masters, maybe thrown
in prison." And when full day came, he
himself took Montino down the mountain as
far as the first ford that crosses the Flora.
Five hundred times, if once, have I heard
the history from Montino himself. Nay,
Saturnino was a brave man, and a generous,
and because he aided this stranger to escape
from the burden of life, they have caged him
in a trap as you catch a gondola. It is vile.
The stranger was a rich man in this own
country, a great prince, they say ; what did
he do here in Italy ? why not stay where he
was? 'It was always the rich that Mastarna

made war on ; the poor were sacred to him.
That we know. Yet he will lie in chains
amidst the waves on Gorgonaa, or waste his
strength in the mines in the bowels of the
earth. It is unjust. It is unjust.'

Then an assenting and approving murmur
rose up from the listening people and joined
with the murmur of the sea.

Joconda heard them as she lay on her
hard straw bed.

And there is a grain of truth in what
they say,' she thought. ' Yet his sins were
many and deep, poor soul ! and they will be
heavier about his neck than the chains he
will wear on Gorgonaa. May Christ lighten
them ! '

Then she slept.

She was a woman who usually enjoyed
the dreamless, heavy sleep of the hard
worker ; but all through this night she
dreamed and saw the bold form of Saturnine
chained, and with his crimes written on
his breast for any who chose to read, even
as he would be henceforth in all his years
to come on the sunburnt, wave-beaten rock :
the eagle of the mountains fettered to a stone
in the sea.

At daybreak her mind was made up ;

she took a stout staff in her hand, skuig her
wallet about her, with some bread in it and
some goat's ham cured Savoy fashion, and
went out towards the mountains.

She was a strong woman, though old,
and she walked briskly. The pasture lands
and marshes were desolate, and she met
scarce anyone ; here and there a furze cutter
or a ploughman with his oxen, that was all.
She soon quitted the sight of the sea, and
bore inland by the course of the Albegna
river, through solitary untracked thickets,
and over rough rocky ground.

After some hours lie came to crossroads,
and there sat down on a stone, and
waited for the public waggon running from
Orbetello to Monte Murano to come by ;
when it jolted near her, its miserable horses
straining at their rope harness, she stopped
it, and got into it ; it lumbered on inter a
volley of blows and oaths rained on the
patient, sinking beasts.

At Monte Murano she descended, and
was forced to sleep ; with daybreak she left
the place, and thence had to make her way
as best she might up to what had been the
brigand's favourite lair, although he had
Others in the fastnesses of the Ciuiiuiau

mountains, which he frequented when it
pleased him to descend upon the southward
road nearer Eome, where more than once
he had even stopped the mail train itself as
it had rolled over the marshes and beneath
the sombre gloom of the maritime pines,
and had swerved off the line as it encountered
the timber and stones that Saturnino's
men had placed there in its path.

He had been always called Saturnino of
the Santa Fiora, though his range had extended
so much farther than these peaks,
and towards Santa Fiora she made her way
through the dense underwood and luxuriant
vegetation that here cover the soil, where
the roads are mere mule tracks, often
effaced, and the amphitheatre of the mountains
enclose a solitude and a silence scarcely
ever broken save by sound of sheep-bell, or
cry of bittern, or the browsing murmur of
the teeth of wild cattle chewing the luscious
grass.

Here on the wooded cliffs was once
Saturnia, whose giant walls still remain,
overgrown with laurentius and mountain
box and butcher's broom, and in the
hovels that occupy its site, and take its
name, where Saturnino forty-five years before

had seen the light, there is a filthy little
driiikiDg-house, whose only customers are
the shepherds and the woodcutters and the
muleteers.

There Mastarna, as the hero and martyr of
the soil, was being lamented by a knot of ill-looking
foresters as Joconda passed the open
door by which they were sitting together
playing at dominoes. Being a brave woman,
and not caring for their ill looks, she
gathered from them what direction to take
so as to reach the mountain crest without
sinking miserably in a quagmire, or wandering
till dead of hunger in the intricacy of
the pathless jungle.

She asked for the Rocca del Giulio, and
they pointed it to her ; far, very far away,
where the autumn snows lay on the highest
lines of the hills. She took her staff and
wallet and set out again.

You cannot reach it to-night, mother,'
the men said to her.

She said to them, ' Very well. No one
will hurt me. I am old and ugly, and I
have not a coin to steal.'

They laughed and asked her why she
went ; she told them ' to get a child to
nuriiQ ; ' and with the prudence of her country

appended to the fact a fiction of a daughter
whose infant was dead, and who needed one
to suckle.

'A little lie is always useful,' thought
Joconda, though she was not a false or a
faithless Avoman.

Then she lost sight of the foaming,
turbulent Flora, and began her climb towards
the mountain summits. The ways
were very steep and very long ; night overtook
her. She took shelter in an empty
hut of a shepherd, and ate and drank out of
her wallet, and slept not ill, for she was
tired and not timorous.

The great lonely mountain-side, with
the water freshness of autumn tearing down
it to swell the Flora water, was about her
when she awoke. She could not see the
rock she wanted above her, a grey speck
under the snows. She was stiff, and felt as if
she were frozen from sleeping out of her bed
on the damp leaves ; but she resumed her
upward way. It was again noon when she
passed the last robur-oak and cork trees
and came up amidst wind wasted pines and
boulders of granite and slate, tossed about
on a wild mountain scarp as if in the horseplay
of giants

She saw scarce any one ; the scattered
folk of the hills were most of them in hiding,
stricken with terror at the seizure of Saturnine,
with whom they were all in habits of
greater or lesser complicity.

One old man was met with, very old
and bent. He was looking for simples in
the many herbs that clothed the hillside.
He told her at last where the Eocca del Giulio
was, pointing, as he spoke, to a spot faraway
amidst the snow that had fallen on
the heights.

That was Satm^nino's nest,' he said.
Poor soul ! They have taken him, and
killed most of his men. He never did meany
harm.'

He was very old, and not curious ; being
so, he let her go on upward without question.

Here the snow had fallen heavily. It had
ceased to fall now, but there was a sharp frost
on these heights, and the ground was white
and hard. The stunted trees looked black.
It was very desolate. The clouds were low
upon the mountain side, and their mists
were all around her. She could see the
white crests of the Labbro and the Santa
Fiora loom close on her, it seemed, in the
steel-hued fog. She had never been so high

VOL. I. E

up on the mountains since her girlhood,
sixty and more years before in the alps
about the feet of the Mecca di None. The
sight of the great cones of snow so near
beside her, the feeling of the crisp clear air
and the icy freshness of it, gave her a strange
sensation — the sickness of nostalgia coming
on her in old age, after a long life in the
swamps and on the shore.

A sudden thirst made her throat and her
heart ache with longing for her old home,
set on a granite ledge of rock, with the
valley of Cogne stretching below it, and the
white summit of Mont Blanc in sight beyond
the gorge, and nearer at hand the peaks and
glaciers of the Grand Paradis, her old home,
with its girdle of deep green forest, and its
ceaseless sound of rushing water, and its
alpine winds, that are known no more to the
dwellers of the plains than what the condor
of the Andes beholds in its flight is known
to the hedge-sparrow in the thorn-bush by
the road.

It was sixty long years since she had
felt that wind upon her forehead, and heard
that rush of ice-fed waters as they leapt
from rock to rock ; since she had lifted her
voice in the model of the hills, and rested

her eyes on that fresh flowering grass, those
deep cool shadows of the pines. Yet now
and then it all came back upon her as it did
now, clear as a dream of the night, and then
the sea would fade away, and the sands
recede, and the misty scorching dust-grey
shores grow dim to her, and her eyes would
only be dry because she had grown too old
to weep. And when she slept, it was of
these she dreamed almost always ; above
all, in the stifling midnights of the terrible
canicular heat, when the air was like steam,
and the soil was like brass, and there was
no freshness or peace in the darkness, and
with itg fall no dews.

She felt for the brigand's image in her
bosom, and drew it out and looked at it ;
then walked to the first house that lay in
her way.

They seemed all empty. There was nota
sound, except the soughing of wind in the
tops of the pines.

She called, and no one answered. She
shouted again and again, but her voice died

on the mountain stillness unanswered. Then
she pushed open a door and looked inside.
The houses were little more than stone
huts, and they were all deserted ; hastily

E 2

Library

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNOO

deserted, it seemed to her ; for there were
things strewn about them, and here and
there pools of blood, and broken arms upon
the frozen snow. She could have guessed
how it had been, even had she known
nothing of the capture of Saturnino ; guessed
that there had been a struggle here, and the
women had left in hurried flight.

How shall I find his lamb ? ' she
thought, with a sigh half of regret, half of
relief; and she stood still and looked.

The few people who had dwelt there had
fled, that was plain to her ; most likely out
of fear of the soldiery.

Poor souls ! ' she said, and crossed herself,
seeing the scarcely dried blood on the
stones.

A dog's bark startled her.

It was a bark of anger and of appeal
both in one. She rose and went in the
direction of the sound. It came from the
last of the stone huts. Lie pushed open the
door as she had done that of the other.
A great dog, snow-white, stood in the centre
of the clay floor ; under his body was a
child asleep.

The child of Serapia ! ' she thought, as
she looked down on the sleeping infant.

Serapia had been but a name — a legend — to
the dwellers of the shore and ]plains.

Wild tales were always told of how
Saturnino had ravished her from her people ;
people beggared though of noble blood,
who dwelt on a wind-swept spur of the
Sabine hills, by whom she was cursed, and
looked on as one dead.

A beautiful, ignorant, mindless thing she
had ever been ; foolish and passionate from
the hour that she had been borne away, a
second Proserpine, to the night of oblivion,
peril, and crime in which her brute-lover
dwelt. One short year only lie had been
carried, half a captive, half a willing mistress,
to that topmost haunt of the hills where all
that Saturnino knew as home was made.
There she had died ; some said of fever, some
said of a blow from Saturnino ; anyway she
had died, and had been buried where the tall
stone pines rose up like columns of a temple
against the marble of the porches. And
her child was here, asleep amidst a scene of
carnage made more Horrible by the dreaming
smile of a baby's rest.

In the cabin there were loose coins,
gold, and jewels, dropped and stamped on as
they had been caught up in the haste of

flight ; a rich shawl was thrown aside iij^on
the beaten earth of the ground, a length of
gold brocade was tossed against a roiigh-
hewn table, overturned ; close to the childbed
there was a carved ivory toy such as
are made in India. In the child's hand was
a dry half-eaten crust.

Joconda looked neither to the gold nor
stuffs. Her soul was sick at the sight of
the pools of blood still wet, and at the sight
of the dream in o- creature who was left a
heritage of crime and woe,

The blood of Saturnino ! ' she thought ;
it seemed to her that it must be as a stream of
lava and of poison in the veins of a female
child.

This must be the child,' said Joconda
to herself, and stood looking ; she was
afraid of the white Molossus dog.

The child was two years of age, or two
and a half, she thought; not more. It
had been forsaken, no doubt, when the
mistresses and wives of the band had run for
their lives after the men's struggle with the
carabiniers.

Joconda stood wavering, on account of
the dog ; at length she spoke to him, and he
looked at her. Tien he ceased to growl,

and smelt lier. Then, apparently satisfied,
he let her d^a^\^ near the child, who
was sleeping : a lovely creature, half naked,
with long black lashes lying on cheeks like
mountain rose-leaves, and loose thick curls
like rings of amber.

It is a woman child ; so much the
worse,' said Joconda, looking down on it.

If it had been a male, it would have
been much easier for her ; a boy could soon
have run about and done something for his
daily bread in the boats, or with the
mules, or in the firewood. However, she
remembered that, be it what it would, she
had promised Mastarna. She looked timorously
at the dog, and raised the child
without waking it ; he looked at her in
return, watchfully, but comprehending that
she meant it no injury. She saw at the
baby's throat a little golden image ; then
she wrapped her shawl about it, and said to
the dog ' Come.'

For the dog was alone, and Joconda
was a woman of hard aspect but good heart.

The dog was of the same race as
Ulysses' faithful friend, perhaps the purest
and most ancient canine race of all in the
world, and one of the boldest and most

beautiful ; he was fierce and powerful, but
full of sympathy and wisdom ; he bent his
head, sniffed at her feet, gazed sorrowfully
in her eyes, put his nose to the child's cheek,
their went with her down the path by which
she had climbed to what had been, until
the night before, the brigand's home.

She began to descend the mountain, but
night drew nigh, and the child, who still
slept, was a heavy weight. She stopped at
the first cabin she came to, and asked for
shelter. The charcoal-burners, who dwelt
there, knew the look of the child and the
dog, and would not take her in ; they were
afraid Saturnino's daughter might bring them
trouble with the police. Joconda cursed
them heartily for cowards.

She made her way with great fatigue,
and with strong effort manacled to reach the
inn where she had slept the first night.
Here they did not know the child nor the
dog, or did not say that they did.

Ah ! thou hast got the baby for thy
step-daughter,' was all the woman of the
house said to her ; and Joconda answered —

'Ay ; but it has ceased to suck ; that
is a pity.'

Long before this the child had wakened

more than once, and had cried and sobbed,
and become very troublesome. The dog
was quiet and sad.

They gave her goat's milk and black
bread, and let her and the child and the
dog sleep altogether in a room full of hay
and straw. She and the baby slept well ;
the dog but little.

The following morning she resumed her
journey, and returned as she had come,
only that she had the burden of the infant
and the companionship of the animal.

The child was now wakeful, impatient,
tyrannous ; the dog, as he got farther and
farther from his old home, was melancholy,
and footsore, and anxious.

You are like a white lion,' she said to
him, and named him Leone : what names
either he or the child had borne before she
could not tell.

It was still fresh, fine weather, happily
for her, for she had to walk much, and it
took her several days to return on foot, and
the diligence only ran once a week, and
she missed it at Monte Murano. She was
an old woman, and she became very weary.

It was evening once more when she
drew nigh her own village.

The pale sands, the tufa rocks, the background
of marshes and stagnant water
looked very dreary even to her who had
been used to them all her life ; there was a
sickly haze upon the sea, and a fog upon the
horizon.

Two or three of her neighbours, wasted
and wan-looking folks, gave her good
evening, and glanced at the child and the dog.

Is that child of thy kin, mothers ' they
asked curiously.

Nay ; I have no kin here. It is a
dead friend's child,' she answered them
wearily, for she was very tired.

And the dog ? '

He was my dead friend's dog ; he followed
me. I could not turn him adrift.'

They will be hungry mouths, mother? '

Ay ; but I will not ask you to feed
them.'

Then they laughed and stared and wondered,
but dared not ask more, and let
her be.

She made her way to her own house,
and drew the great key from her girdle,
and unlocked her door and opened it, and
entered, leading the child by the hand, and
followed by the dog.

It was cold and dark and cheerless.
The child was awed, and the dog dulled, hj
the stillness and solitude, the greyness and
gloom. The sound of the sea breaking on the
sands below was more mournful than perfect
silence.

Joconda kneeled down by the crucifix
that \\\\\\^ on the wall and made the little
limbs of the baby kneel too.

See me, good saints, and bear ye testimony
that I have kept my word. Be this
3'oung thing blessing or curse, I have kept
my word. Be ye good to us both.'

Then she rose and fetched from her
closets water and milk, salted fish and bread,
and broke her fast, and gave food and drink
to both the child and the beast.

When she went to rest, the rosy and
fresh-washed warmth of the child was on
her romish couch, and the white Molossus was
stretched before her door. She could not
tell whether she were sorry or content. She
Alas at least no longer alone.

But the blood of Saturnino ? ' she said
doubtfully to herself. Any way, she had kept
her word.

As she had stumbled down along the
stony mountain road, the weight of the two-year-old

child heavy on her shoulder, she,
being a religious woman, had bethought her
that surely it had never been baptised, and
pondered on what holy name to give to this
offspring of sinners.

She knew her calendar by heart, and
called to mind that this autumnal day, with
the deep white snow on the heights, and the
red and gold ash-foliage in the woods, was the
twenty-ninth of October, the day dedicated
by the Latin Church to that sad and little
remembered eastern saint, Mary the Penitent.

Joconda was not a book-learned woman.
She could spell out her missal, that was
all ; but she vaguely remembered that Santa
Maria Penitentee had had the grace of heaven
given her after sorrow and shame, and that in
her story there was a dragon who devoured
a dove, and out of the body of the monster
the beautiful Avhite bird had come forth unharmed
and spread its wings, and shot upward
to the Sin. And for sure this is a dove
come forth from a dragon, she had said to
herself, looking at the sleeping child, and so
had resolved that when she should get down
back to her own little town, the child should
be received into the Church by the name of
Maria Penitent and no other,

;ANTA TAESILLA was a dreary
place midway between Telamone
and Orbetello, lying low upon a
shore half sand, half swamp, with
aloes and sea fennel and the prickly samphire
for all its vegetation, and blocks of stone
and marble strewn about, some Woman,
some Etruscan. There was beauty indeed
on its horizon, in the luminous air where
the distant snow-peaks of Corsica and the
near crags of iron-bound Elba could be
seen, with far Carrara and Monte Crista,
and many another island nameless to the
world. But to see these it was needful to
go a good way out upon the open water ;
from the little crooked land-locked bay there
was little to be discerned save the low pale
coast and low red tufa hills that locked in

the harbour, where the waters were shallow,
turgid, almost stagnant, choked with weed
and sand, although, beyond, the Silurian
sea, blue as turquoise in some lights, blue
as lapis lazuli at others, sometimes rose in
fretted turbulence, and sometimes rolled ina.
sullen swell.

A little way inland the moors began ;
in grand level stretches of gorse and brushwood,
covering many a buried tomb, and
buried town, with the lentiscus and the
rosemary weaving above them. Nigh at
hand were dark lines of pine forests, although
their balsamic scent and resinous
breath could not purify the miasma of the
coast, and eastward were the still wild and
scarce-trodden woodlands, stretching away
to the mountain-ranges where the robber
had made his lair. But wood and hill were
all too far away to alter the weary monotony
of the scene at Santa Tarsilla. It seemed
all shore — pale barren shore ; and shallow
sea — sea which yet drowned so many that
it seemed to the people like a graveyard.

On a narrow tongue of sandy land there
was a little fort ; sickly soldiers came there
and guards to watch the coast. There was
also a furnace-house to make the salt that was

raked upon the beach ; but smoke selon
issued from its chimney, though wood was
to be had for the getting, and salt for
the taking of it. The people had little
strength and less spirit. In winter time
their lives were very hard, and with the
summer came the pestilence, and then ague
and fever fed on them and drained their
bodies, and left them scanty force to do more
than sit in the shade of their boats or their
walls and push out for moonlit fishing when
night fell. It was the strong fellows who
came down from the mountains of Pistoia
and the hills of Lucca that did their work,
and reaped the harvest on moor and in
forest when autumn came round.

The people of the shore were nearly all
dropsical, and the few soldiers and coast-guardsmen
sent on duty along the shores
suffered more than the native population at
most times. But the Pistoiese and the Luc-these
and the armies of winter-workers did
not come into Santa Tarsilla itself except at
rare odd times, when some of them brought,
from the interior, grain or timber or charcoal
to load the little coasters that were the only
vessels insignificant enough to deign to remember
this secluded little lay; and even to

these the port dues were so heavy as to be
well nigh ruinous, and the skippers, poor
men of Livorno and Genoa for the most part,
were scarcely able to scrape a profit from
their cargoes. The port dues and shipping
taxes have crippled and nearly destroyed all
the commerce of the minor merchantmen of
Italy, and they have struck a death-blow
to the humble industries of the little Mares
sea-towns.

Before the independence, of which the
Maremma heard much but understood little,
Santa Tarsilla had been very feeble, but
able to get its own living ; since then
it had become paralysed, and was perishing
off the face of the earth.

The waters teemed with fish ; only looking
down from the side of a boat you could
see fish, by the thousand, gleaming like gold
and silver in those bright transparent depths,
with the feathery weeds, and the branches
of coral. There was always fish indeed ;
but fish, though it will serve to fill your
own mouth, and the mouths of your children,
is of very little further use unless there
be buyers for it. The waters teemed, the
nets ran over, but as often as not the living-spoils
of the sea were thrown down and

left to rot in noisome heaps upon the sands,
because there was no one to purchase them
and no means to carry them to other towns.
Now and then they took the fish on mules to
Grosseto or other places on the line of rail,
but there was little sale for it ; and before
it could be passed through the gates of
any town there was so heavy a tax on it
that it paid no one to load a felucca's deck
or a beast's panniers with so perishable a
thing.

So Santa Tarsilla was sad and solitary
always, and usually sickly enough ; there was
never any mirth or joviality in it ; the young
men grew impatient of its loneliness and
poverty and always went away as soon as
they readied years enough to be their own
masters. There were only a few old men,
and some women and children ; all the
stronger folk who had been born in it were
elsewhere, coral fishing in the south, doing
forest work on the hills, or gone to live at
Follonica where the foundries are.

Only the feeble, the old, and the very
poor stayed in the little bay that had once
been a great port for the galleys of Porsenna,
as Joconda did, Who had neither means nor
strength to move away to a cooler laud.

VOL. I. Y

An almost absolute silence reigned there,
only broken by the booming of millions of
mosquitoes, and the tinkling now and then of
the one feeble church bell. The many pedlars
that travel through Maremma did not very
often give an hour to Santa Tarsilla, unless
their way lay most directly over the Tombolo
or sandy shore. Now and then one came
with needles and pins, tapes and kerchiefs,
and a hundred other small articles
of merchandise, packed in the wooden or
leathern case upon his back ; and when he
did come, there was much gossip but few
pence for him, for every one was poor in the
forlorn forgotten town, which would have
been no more than a village had it not been
for its coastguard and its church.

By June, when the harvest was reaped,
the labourers fled ; a few fisher-folk remained,
sallow and lean with weakness, or
swollen with the dropsy common to the coast.
Its very priests where sent to Santa Tarsilla asa
penitence ; and its military were stationed
as a chastisement ; of late years, even the
little garrison of soldiers had been withdrawn
by the Government, and there were none
nearer than Orbetello. The little fort was
falling to decay, and even the coastguards-men

dwelt not at Santa Tarsilla itself, but ina
tower on the coast a mile away.

Soothing could be sadder than this place,
or seem more forgotten of God and man.

Joconda sometimes, sitting at her door in
the heavy parching summer heats, thought
with a dull agony of remembrance of the
mountain home of her birth.

In these unhealthy places of Maremma,
where no one ever stays who can get away,
and nearly all who remain are ague-stricken
and fever-worn, young children not seldom
thrive well enough. The poisoned air,
so hot, so damp, so laden with seeds ' of
disease, seems to have mercy sometimes on
these young open lips, and bare, soft, uncertain
limbs, and in six years' time from
the capture of the brigand of Santa Flora,
there was the lithe figure of a beautiful
child, bright as a rose, erect as a palm, on
the pallid sands under the sultry skies.

This child that was Saturnino's throve,
and grew without ailment, without accident,
without a flaw anywhere, in feature, or limb,
or body.

When Joconda had come down the hills
with the weight of Saturnino's legacy in her
arms, she had pondered long and anxiously

r 2

as to whether she would tell the people of
Santa Tarsilla that it was the daughter of
their hero whom she was about to take
beneath her roof. She had turned the matter
over long and anxiously in her thoughts, as
the public waggon had rumbled on its way-down
the long stony roads, and at length had
decided with herself not to let them knoAV
it. Joconda was a woman more truthful
than the rest ; that is to say, she saw no
harm whatever in an untruth if it were
necessary and injured nobody, a distinction
that in Italy is rarely drawn ; but she did
not think a lie the natural answer to, and
legitimate offspring of, a question, as most of
her neighbours did, and she preferred to tell
the simple truth when she could, which is
esteemed in the country generally as but
poor dull work, showing great lack of invention
in whosoever is content with it.

At last, as she had lain the night
through wide awake, disturbed by the presence
and the thought of Saturnino's offspring,
she had resolved that it would be
best not to tell the truth here. The people
would make an idol of their hero's offspring,
and the child, as she grew older, would be
restless and perturbed if she heard that her

father had been sent by his judges to pass
his life as a galley-slave on Gorgonaa.

Joconda feared no scorn and unkindness
on the score of her birth for the child, if
that birth were known ; on the contrary,
she feared the vanity and the evil passions
that, with the knowledge of the blood of
the Mastarna in her veins, might by public
sentiment be engendered in her.

She would be the child of a hero, almost
of a martyr, in the esteem of Maremma.
She would hear no account made of his
crimes ; she would only hear of his valour ;
and if she lived she would grow up to think
of her father as a sufferer by the law's injustice.


To the cooler, sturdier, northern sense
of ricrht and wroncr which abode in the
mountain-born spirit of the woman of Savoy,
this prospect carried a fatal future to give
to any child ; and she resolved within herself
to keep the secret of the baby's paternity
from all, save, of course, her confessor. To
him she told the truth.

To the rest of the shore people she said
merely that it was a friend's child come from
over the other side of Monte Labbro, and
she, being a close and resolute woman, was

impenetrable to the curiosity of her neighbours.


They were not very curious either.

A child was no rare treasure, and there
was nothing strange in a lone one being
placed with a lone woman who was known
to have a little money secured and hidden
somewhere. Plenty of people along the
coast would have been willing and glad tolet
Joconda adopt their children, would she
have taken them. So without more comment
or inquiry the child and the dog were domiciled
at the old stone house by the pier in
Santa Tarsilla, and there grew and throve,
as they best might, in an air that to many
was death.

Joconda's first care was to have her
friend and director, the priest, baptise the
infant, and wash away in holy water the sins
of its fathers from its soul. She knew not
what it had ever been called, or if it had
ever been called anything, but the name of
the saint on whose day she had found it, she
gave to it, as on the mountain side she had
resolved to do. By the sad recluse of Syria
the little large-eyed rose-checked child of
Saturnino and Serapia was named, and
Joconda saw a storm-swallow fly beyond

the grated casement of the chiircli, and sail
to herself that it was a dove. She was nota
superstitious woman, but still, if such
things once had been, why not again ?

She is a love child ? ' said the sacristan,
as he gave her back to Joconda's arms,
weighted henceforward with the name of
the Syrian Magdalene. ' A child of crime,'
said Joconda ; for she had not the indulgence
to the sins of Saturnino Mastarna that
the Maremma had. She was a northern
woman.

When the old priest died a dozen years
later on, Joconda did not tell his successor
of the child's parentage.

They are good as good can be, the holy
men,' she said to herself, ' and of comes they
never tell anything out of confessional — no
but still, when their housekeeper gets gossiping
over a nice bit of fried liver, or their
appellant comes in with some new wine,
they are but human, and they may mix up
a little that they hear in the street with
what they hear m the chapel. Why not ?
A man must talk, even when he is a holy
one ; that stands to reason.'

So she, who did not feel the necessity to
talk, kept her own counsel.

She said to herself that it would be
better the child should never have known
that her father dwelt on that stony face of
Medusa. What good could it do ? As the
child would grow older the thought would
torment and fester in her, and lead her to
evil, so she thought ; and being a woman
with a strong power of silence, the silence
of one who has long lived alone with God,
she never breathed the secret to any living
soul.

Slowly the memory of Saturnino would
die away, she knew, when he should be no
more a living wonder on the hills, to feed
their fancies with fresh legends of violence
and romance. Saturnino was caged upon
that isle whose strange shape lies on the blue
waves, carved like a woman's head, with hair
out-floating on the deep, and blank eyes
staring up at Heaven. Costa has painted it
so, and its name of Gorgon is old as the
rocks are old.

There, galley-slaves (keeping their old
name also) are mewed in a bitter company,
and every now and then one escapes, and
most likely is drowned, or shot, as he
struggles in the waves; and every now and
then strangers, curious and indifferent, come

over the water to see these caged gallows-birds,
and stare at them blankly.

There are Italian children who look as
though they had stepped down from a predella
or a tryptich ; they are like the singing
children of Angelico, the light-bearing angels
of Filippo, the pages of Victoria Carpaccio,
the winged boys of the Siennese masters.
The old type is there still in all its purity ;
the oval face, the level brows, the curling
hair, the spiritual eyes, the rosalie, smiling,
yet serious mouth which the painters of those
happier times saw around them in the streets
and in the fields.

There are so many Italian children still,
looking? on whom one thinks at once of dim
rich altars, of gold-starred vaulted niches,
of lunettes glowing in the dusk like jewels,
of vaulted roofs that are borne up by the
wings of sculptured angels.

This child, born from a mountain robber
and named from the anointed penitent, was
like one of these children who, in the works
of the early masters, stand with chalice, or
lyre, or dove of the Holy Spirit, about the
feet of martyrs or around the throne of Mary.
Only in the eyes of this creature, who was
called a penitent ere she had sinned any sin,

there was a rebellious light, and in the arched
mouth there was a resolute scorn that the
masters did not put into their young servitors
of God.

In feature she was strangely like the
Cano-el of Annunciation of Carlo Dolce. It
is the mode nowadays to deride Carlo Dolce,
as it is the mode to deride melody in music ;
but let them chatter as they will, none can
take away the lovely living light on his
Jesu's infant face, nor deny the exquisite
beauty of that angel who has all the yearning
of humanity and all the grandeur of
heaven in that perfect face which bends
beneath its cloud of nimbus'd hair.

I pity those who can look unmoved on
that angel where the painting hangs in the
forsaken bed-chamber of the Pitt, whilst,
beyond, there are the sweet still sunshine and
the sounds of the falling waters of the
gardens. Who can do so, may have the
jargon of art on his tongue ; he has not its
secret in his soul. I would almost give up
even the divine visions of Eaffaelle to have
that herald. of Christ for ever before my
eyes.

There was a bad feeble copy of this
seraphic thing in the Church of Santa Tar-silk,

but a copy of Carlo Dolce's own time,
and therefore one made with reverence and
tenderness ; and Joconda would look at it
where it hung above a side altar, and "would
think to herself, ' If it were not profane,
how like the child of Saturnino ! '

This likeness grew more and more
strongly visible as she grew up to girlhood,
and when her hair blew in the sea wind of
autumn, and the sun found the gold in its
bronze, then had she an aureole too, and
she had the light, the strength, the power,
the mystery that are in Carlo's angel's
face.

'Almost one looks to see wings spread
from your shoulders ! ' said old Andreino to
her, meaning only that she was like the sea-swallow
in her swiftness and her faith in the
sea ; but Joconda, hearing him, thought,
Have you too seen that likeness in her to
Carlo's angel ? '

But he had not ; his eyes were always
on the fish and the nets.

Fed on black bread and dried fish, with
rarely anything else, for milk there was
none, and fruit there was none, and meat
was ever scarce, except when a lamb or kid
was killed from some shepherd's passing

flock, she grew erect, strong, bold, bright,
handsome ; with a clear, colourless skin ; and
brown, lustrous, astonished eyes, and bright
bronze-hued hair that Joconda brushed back
from her brow in rippling masses, and cut
short at the throat.

In summer she was clothed in the grey
homespun linen that Joconda made, and in
winter she was clad in blue or white
woollen stuff instead ; both short, straight
little garments, very like in form to those
of the Florentine choristers of Lucy della
Eobbia.

In all weathers it was her delight to cast
this off, and plunge into the sea and float
there, indifferent to wind or sun ; and this
passion for the water got for her in her
fourth year a popular name in Santa Tar-silly,
which quite displaced and effaced the
saintly one she had been baptised by ; she
was always called by the people — the few
sickly suffering people, to whom the sea was
but a breeding bed for fish — the delia, or
sea-gull, that lares mariners, with plumage
white as his native snows, Which came from
the northern ocean as soon as the north
wind blew.

C'e una delia I ' an old man had said

once, seeing the child in the sea on a stormy
day, when she looked no bigger than a sea-bird
on the crest of foam ; and from that
time she was known by that word chiefly,
and also as the Musoncella.

Mnsoncella ! ' the other children yelled
after her ; for in the honors that are sunjr in
the Maremma, round the charcoal burner's
fires in the forest, and on the decks of the
fishing feluccas on the sea, and behind the
driven buffaloes in the reedy swampy plains,
the girl that turns her face away is always
twitted with this epithet.

Far it must is to be scornful of, and
sullen to, your kind : to have the black dog
on your back as northern phrase it.

It troubled Joconda to have that good
name of Maria Penitentee so utterly put
aside and abandoned. It seemed as if the
saints rejected the child of Saturnino, she
thought. But when a popular tide of feeling
rises high, no one can change it, even when it
only sets toward a trick of speech in a
fishing village, and Vclia or Musoncella, the
child was called by one and all, even by
Joconda, who could not get out of the contagion
of the nicknames.

She would not play with others ; she

played with the sails, Avitli the surf, with the
crystals of the salt, with anything rather
than with the children, who, compared with
her, were very timid, and were afraid of her,
they could not have well told why, except
that once, when one of them, twice her age,
had worried Leone, she had darted into the
hut and rushed out of it with a burning
brand, which she would have hurled into
the face of the boy who had hurt the dog
if the women had not flung themselves on
her.

When Joconda, who was absent that
day, returned and heard, she trembled again.
She is of Saturnino's blood,' she thought
with fear. She was herself so old ; she felt
unequal to the task of training this lion-cub
to lie down amidst the folded lambs.

The child certainly was not tender, and
could be very fierce.

She liked best to be alone and to be
always in movement ; she never cared to be
still, except in the church when there was a
requiem or a choral mass, and the sounds
went floating away into the dark dimly lit
place and mingled with the sounds of the
seas and the winds without. Then she would
sit motionless, and sometimes her voice would

come out of lier and rise far above lier ken
and hover in the air like a bird, and then the
people would hold their breath to listen and
mutter to one another, ' there must be a
saint that thinks about her after all.'

For herself, she did not want any saint.
The religion of Santa Tarsilla went past her ;
it never reached her, still less did it ever
enter into her. They had taught her the
usual formula, and she had had the priestly
benison on her dusky head like other
children ; but it all went by her as the
wind did ; it never took hold upon her.
And yet Saturnino was a true believer,' said
the good Prior of Santa Tarsilla; to whom
alone Joconda had told the truth. Yes, the
murderer and robber had believed devoutly,
and had been a true Christian, so far as faith
and fear could make him so, but this child
was a heathen.

I do not care for them ; ' that was all
she answered to the priest when he strove to
make her love Christ and the saints.

She cared more for a fish with jewel-like
eyes, when she could steal it away from the
overflowing net, and let it glide back into the
sea, and watch its fins stir, and its languid life
(quicken, till with a rush and a dajfh it vanished

into the lustrous silent depths where it had
its being.

The child's desire to set all things free
gave often a sharp pang to Joconda's
heart.

What would she say if she knew of
her father on those rocks up yonder ? ' she
would mutter now and then to the Prior,
who would answer : ' There is no reason
that she should ever know of him. It
could do no good. She would think him
a hero, as Maremma has done.'

She would try to set him free, too, if she
swam all night and all day to reach him,'
said Joconda.

And as she grew older, and age with its
many infirmities made her weaker both in
brain and body, she began to be afraid, nervously
afraid — calm, strong woman though
she was — that anyone or anything should
ever tell the child of that galley-slave at
Gorgon a.

No one did, and the child but rarely wondered
whence she came ; she took existence
as a matter of course, like all ignorant creatures
; it was no stranger that she should be
alive than that the fish should be so in the
water and the birds in the air. Culture

alone sets before the baffled brain the cruel
problem : idly are ice ?

Musa, as she was now oftener called,
was absolutely ignorant. But ignorance is
not always stupidity ; and she was full of
a restless, though dormant, intelligence
which was always groping about blindly
for knowledge. Of the arts she knew
nothing, not so much as their names, but she
had an instinct towards the love of them ;
the lore of books was unknown to her, but
she audit eagerly at all fragments of legend
and tradition that came to her from the
mouths of the old men and women around
her ; that earth and sky were lovely no one
had ever told her, but their beauty was full
of vague delight to her. ' A strange child,'
said the people of Santa Tarsilla always,
because she would sit for hours quite still,
with her dreamy eyes fastened on the stars
of a summer night or the sea of an autumn
day.

Once a fisher-lad, thinking to please her,
had given her a branch of coral. Musa had
taken it in silence. ' You can sell it,' said
another girl of her age. ' It is a brave piece
and of rare colour.' ' When you grow
bigger, and go in with the mule to the town,'

VOL. I. G

said another, ' you can have it cut into beads
to wear ; it is a brave piece.'

Musa had said nothing, but she got old
Andrea's boat, that day, and rowed out to
where the water was deep, and purple in
colour, yet transparent as glass in its great
depth ; and there, being all alone, leaned
over the boat's side and dropped the coral
into the water, and watched it sink down,
down, down, and join the other coral that
grew there, far below.

It will be happier,' she had said to
herself; ' it is not where it came from, I daresay,
but it is the best I can do.'

It had seemed to her that the coral would
be so glad to be once more in those calm, cool
and shadowy deeps where never burned the
sun, and never sound was heard.

When she had reached land afterwards
and met all the other children, and the giver
of the coral amongst them, and they asked her
for it, she had answered, ' I have put it back
into the sea,' and they had screamed at her ;
and the fisher-had sworn at her and tried to
give her a blow : this was all her gratitude !
they cried in offence and wrath.

Questioned, she could not very well have
told why she had done it. Only she pitied

everything that was taken out of that fresh
free life of the deep sea, and not seldom when
she got a chance slipped back from the net
into the waves the shining silver of the
stru^zaliiio' fish, caiiQ-ht when the moon was
high. For which not seldom she got a
blow too. For men and women do not like
pity that interferes with their livelihood.

Thou art a strange one ! ' said Joconda
many a time, for the splendid, abundant,
daring; health and strength of the child
seemed strange there, in those pale fever
mists, amidst those pallid, inert populations.
She was good to the child, but she was afraid
of her. The crimes of the Mastarna men
seemed to her fancies to hover, like a cloud
of guilt, above this innocent head. The
blood that coursed so buoyantly in those blue
veins was the blood of an assassin and a
robber. Joconda could not forget that.

When she looked at the form of the
child, leaping naked in the blue waters, she
could not but look over to the north where
the islands blent with the golden sky, and
cross herself as she thought, ' the father is
there in chains ! '

She was not even sure that the child
cared for lier ; the child seemed to love

G L>

nothing except Leone the dog, and the sea.
She had a passion for the winds and the
waters, for the open moor, for the free air,
and was no more to be kept within
doors than a mountain beast or sea-bird
would have been ; but for human creatures
she did not care, and she had none of the
caressing, clinging ways of childhood. The
thought of her weighed heavily on Joconda ;
it was a burden to her, night and day.

Does one suffer for doing good ? ' she
muttered with a sigh to her priest.

'If one did not, where would be the
merit of it ? ' said he.

But Joconda shook her head ; the ways
of the Saints were hard. Her old ae^e had
been already joyless and laborious and bare
and meagre. But it had been tranquil, with
no heavier care than to get provender for
her mule, and bread for her own soup-pot.
Now a weary apprehension, an anxious
trouble, were with her always.

If the child, like the father, should offend
God and man ?

She knew nothing of transmitted taint
and hereditary influence, but her experience
told her that what is bred in the bone comes
out in the flesh ; and her fears made her see

for ever behind the proud, bright, noble
figure of the child the scarlet spectres of
carnage and crime, the shadow of Saturnino
Mastarna's sins.

And I am old,' she would think ; ' I
may die — die soon — and what then ? '

Once the child terrified both Joconda
and the village. A man threw a stone at
Leone and hit the dog in the eye ; she flew
on the man and stabbed him with the knife
with which she was cleaning a gourd.

The knife only made a skin wound, and
the man was appeased with wine and a little
money ; but the terrible fury and convulsive
rage of the child scared the people of Santa
Tarsi 11a, though they were used to dagger
thrusts and long feuds.

Joconda reasoned with her, and punished
her, and threatened her ; but nothing that
she could do could convince the little rebel
that she had been wrong.

'Leone bites those who hurt me,' was
all that she would say.

she grew to eight years old without
ever seeming to think of accounting
for lier own existence.
Then, abruptly one day she
said to Joconda :

Are you my mother ? '
Joconda's weatherbeaten hard slice broke
into a laugh.

Lord ! baby — why I am seventy years
old and more ! '

Where is my mother, then ? '
In heaven,' said Joconda ; and thought,
poor soul, more like in hell ! '
The child was silent, pondering.
Where is my father, then ? '
Why do you ask such things ? '
Because the others, they have a father
and a mother apiece, where are mine ? '

Joconda lead often dreaded the question
that sooner or later was sure to come.

Your father is dead,' she answered.

Dead in the sea ? ' said the child.

People were so often killed by the sea in
Santa Tarsilla.

'Yes,' said Joconda, and she looked over
to the north where she knew that the isle of
Gorgonaa rose from the waves.

Did he q;o to fish ? ' asked the child.

No, dear,' said Joconda, with a pang at
her heart. ' No, dear ; he was a mountaineer,
he lived up yonder ; in the hills ; do not vex
your soul over that, child ; it is of no use.'

The child did not understand, nor did
she give much heed ; her grave straight
brows were drawn too-ether in thought, and
her curved rosy lips were shut fast.

I think I do remember him,' she said
at last very slowly. ' I remember him kissing
me, and he had something cold and
bright that hurt me, and he put it away, and
then there were smoke, and screaming, and
shots, and I crept inter Leone's stomach
and hid. I do remember.'

You dreamt that, baby,' said Joconda
harshly, because she was pained ; ' the cold
bright tiling ' that had hurt her must have

been the dasfgrer red with so much blood !

CO

But the child shook her head and persisted :

No : I do remember.'

And she sat down on the earthen floor,
and put her arms round Leone, and leaned
her head on his, and asked him, did he not
remember too ?

Bless the o-ood God that made the
beasts dumb ! ' thought Joconda.

She hoped the child would not tell it to
the ■ neighbours. The child did not. She
was never talkative, but held herself aloof;
not out of shyness nor yet out of temper,
because she was a bold child, and except for
rare fits of untamable passion, was of serene
temper, but out of a seriousness and indifference
that seemed strange in one so young.

There was no one to give her guardian
counsel in Santa Tarsilla.

The priest was a homely, ignorant
man, son of a fisherman, one of themselves
in both his ways and thoughts,
and the rest were all poor creatures in
her estimation, shrunken and sickened with
fever, swollen with dropsy, or palsied with
the ague of the coast, as they so often were,
and living quite away from the world of
men, hardly knowing when revolution was

running riot in the cities, hardly hearing
when ships were sinking, and squadrons were
falling, in war upon sea or land.

There is, perhaps, no isolation more
complete, no ignorance more absolute, than
that of a little obscure town on the ' accursed
Maremma,' as the people call this
rich and fruitful land, because the greed
and the folly of men have cursed it.

No one comes nigh it ; nothing is done
for it; now and then, with years between
each, travellers may wander to the sites of
Etruscan cities, or hunters come to kill
the wild, soft creatures of the marsh and
moor ; that is all. The only thing known
of government is the tax wrung out of
the empty pocket ; the fine, for which
the cupboard must go breadless ; no one
can write, scarce any one can read ; submission
and weakness beget indifference to
all things ; if any great tidings are brought,
no one cares ; it will make no difference to
the people. They creep about in the sun,
and the slow boats go out, and the sultry
heavens hang over the torpid sea, and when
the bell rings they all wend their listless
way to the old church and pray to Something
Which they believe in, but which does

not help them, and so their lives go on and
end : and no one cares.

It is the sea-shore, indeed.

But all the health, and vigour, and strong
activity, and pungent fresh odours, and buoyant
winds, of the sea elsewhere are too often
missing here. No one knows how hateful
the blessed and beautiful sea can be who has
not seen it, oily, and glassy, and motionless,
stretching under a gTcy sky that looks
parched with mists of interest heat, and
with the fever fog of the poisonous summer
hovering about the glaring sands.

It is no sin of the sea's ; the sin is man's
alone.

Centuries upon centuries of carnage, and
destruction, and fatal waste, have laid the
land bare, and brought disease and desolation
in their train. Perhaps one day the
whole earth will be like this wasted Maremma
shore ; it is very possible. This land
was healthful and lovely enough in the
da s Ashen the legions of Fabius coveted its
wealth; and even in the later age, when
Lucilius dropped anchor at Populonia, it
was still for the most part busy, crowded,
prosperous.

The sickliness of the shore, however,

seems little to affect children, and it hurt
not at all the buoyant health and elastic
strength of the young child they called Delia
and the Musoncella. For one tiling, she was
for ever in the water when lie was not scampering,
fleet of foot as the hill goats, along
the sands, or further out to the moorlands,
where the fresher air was. Hardy
men came from the mountains, and fell
sick, and even died ; strong soldiers came
on guard from hot cities, and there grew
wasted, and languid, and ill, but she
throve there with a splendid vitality and
vigour that were the pride of Joconda
and her shame ; her shame, because it
recalled to her the face and form which
she had seen for the last time by the red
autumn light in the market place at
Grosseto.

She is his image,' she would say, scanning
the pure, oval face, the arched, proud
lips, the eyes like the eyes of the Branch
Antinous, the whole fiice that had the
colour and the beauty of a flower with the
firm lines of a classic bronze.

Of beauty she was no great judge, herself,
but she knew that this child was beautiful
with the terrible beauty of Saturnine.

The law, with its curious one-sided
chastisement which it calls justice, had
taken to itself the guilty man, and left the
innocent offspring alone to perish as it
might ; and the heart of Joconda was heavy
because she herself was old and the child
was so young, and eras not a child to put
away in peace within convent walls, nor yet
grow up to dwell contentedly in a fisherman's
hut.

Blood will out,' she thought.

Meanwhile the child for the time was
content enough ; she fared hardly, for
Joconda could do no better for her ; she bit
black bread and salt fish with her pearl-like
teeth and often was hungry ; she raked in
the glass wrack and the ribbon weed for fuel,
and wore rough homespun clothes about her
supple loins, but she was content enough ;
she had the freedom of the shore and the
sea, and if any maltreated her it was the
worse for them. And she knew nothing of
that wild life which had been caught like a
wild beast; and caged like one, on that
island, which lay far off upon the waters like
a little light golden cloud.

When she grew old enough to listen to
what people said, the story of Saturnino had

grown older also, and few even gave a thought
to it. There had been wars and other heroes
since then ; he was at the galleys at Gorgon
; but the Marennna had ceased to talk
of him except when, now and then, round a
fire in the forests, or becalmed out at sea, a
charcoal burner or a coral fisher would say,
Aie ! he incas a man ! — that was in the good
thine ; we have no such men now, we are all
afraid.'

For as the monotonous years rolled on,
all alike, exactly alike, bringing the drouth
of summer and the storms of winter over the
low sea-shore, twelve years had drifted away
like twelve hours, and the child was fourteen
years old before Joconda could have counted
twelve on her fingers ; so she said, one day,
looking up at the lithe figure between her
and the sunshine.

Holy Mary, you will be a woman
before one knows it!' she cried, with a
pang at her heart, for she was now very old
herself, and when she was gone — who could
tell?

A woman ! ' repeated the girl : it did
not seem a word that suited her.

Yes, you are not a boy,' said Joconda
testily. ' So a woman you will be, worse

luck. If one could only see a little way
ahead — woe's me ! '

Does it vex you I am not a boy ? ' said
the girl. ' Why should it vex you ? I can
do all that they can. I can row better than
many, and sail and steer ; I can dive too,
and I know what to do with the nets ; if I
had a boat of my own you would see what I
could do.'

All that is very well,' said Joconda, with
a little nod. ' I do not say it is not. .But
you have not the boat of your own, that is
just it ; that is what women always suffer
from ; they have to steer, but the craft
is someone else's and the haul too.'

The child looked at her from under bent
brows. She did not understand the words,
she took them literally.

Eor me,' she said, ' I do not care whose
it is, not at all ; I care for the fishing, but
what does it matter dio has what it
brings ? '

It matters when one starves,' said
Joconda.

But we do not starve.'
No we do not.'

She spoke with curtness, but there was
a dimness in her eyes that was not merely

from old age. They did not, while she was
here, with her lease of the old house, and
her prudent savings, but when she was

gone ?

The people were very poor ; they could
seldom get food enough for themselves ; who
would cherish a nameless child ? She herself,
though she had neighbours, had no friends ;
she was always the ' woman of Savoy ' to
all the folks of Santa Tarsilla.

It made her very anxious, for she was a
good woman, and the creature that lay on
her bed and ate at her board, lie loved,
though she said but little.

Do you ever think that I shall die ? '
she said abruptly to the child, who looked
at her in some surprise.

'Die?' she echoed, 'That is a'oino;
away into the earth, you mean, as everything
does, and then it goes upward and
lives with God, they say ; would you wish
that?'

I will have to do it whether I wish or
not, and about living with God I do not
know. I am a sinful soul, though not worse
than most. But you do not understand.
When I am dead, under the earth as you
say, what will you do ? '

I do not know

She did not ; she had never thought of the
matter ; her mind was blank, though her
body was vigorous. Then she added after a
little thought :

I will give myself to the sea ; that is
the way I will die.'

You ! I speak of myself.'
I will die if you do.'

Joconda looked at her amazed and
keenly touched.

Do you love me so much then ? ' she
cried suddenly.

• Is that love ? ' said the child. ' I should
not like to live if you were not here ; I do
not know if you call that love.*

It is love,' said Joconda.

She felt her eyes full of the slow tears of
age, tears salt as the crystals the sea left
on the shore. ' Ah, my dear, my dear ! '
she muttered, 'It is not myself that will
cause you to die for love, but it may be
some other — when I am gone and cannot
help you ! Ah, child, why were you born ?'

Musa did not hear ; she was standing
with her brown hand on the white head of
her dog looking out seaward ; the words
that had been spoken had not saddened her

because they were vague to her. Joconda
had always been there — why should lie go
away to earth or sky ?

It was an April day ; at this season the
sea had no vapour and the shore no miasma ;
there was enough breeze to curl the little
waves and send the foam in ripples ; the
boats were out and the low pale beach was
alive with life, as the women shook and
tossed the seaweed, and raked up the crystals
of the salt, in the morning light.

If I had only a boat ! ' she said with a
sigh.

It seemed to her the one supreme glory of
life — a boat.

A boat altogether one's own, to go outwith
in wild weather when all others were
afraid ; to lie in, all still and alone, on
tranquil waters, gazing down into the blue
depths where the coral branches were, and
the starry flowers of the sea, and the
gemhke eyes of the fishes ; to steer, all by
oneself, through tossing roaring breakers,
through wind and tempest, under inky skies
and beetling rocks, with the fierce hurricane
in front and the thundering waters behind ;
a boat all one's own ; that was the one
triumph of life.

VOL. I. II

But lie had no boat ; Joconcla could not
give lier one ; and when it was stormy
weather the men put her back, and would
not let her go with them, because she was a
child, because she would be a woman. Yes ;
she understood as she thought of the boat ;
she understood that it was very bad to be a
woman.

Joconda broke in on her thoughts.

Wild bird of sea and cloud,' she said
more tenderly than she had ever spoken, ' you
are a stormy petrel, but there may come a
storm too many — and I am old. I have done
my best, but that is little. If you were a lad,
one would not be so uneasy. I suppose the
good God knows best — if one could be sure
of that — I am a hard-working woman, and
I have done no great sin that I know of,
but up in heaven they never take any
thought of me. When I was young, I asked
them at my marriage altar to help me, and
when my boys were born, I did the same, but
they never noticed ; my man was drowned,
and my beautiful boys got the fever, and
sickened one by one and died : that was all
I got. Priests say it is best ; priests are not
mothers.'

She was silent awhile, her thoughts travelling

backward many a year to the time
when she had been 3"oung, and had known
both the joys and the travails begotten of
love. She had been a hard-working woman,
toiling for the bare bread of life, until she
had grown old; but she had been faithful,
and she had not forgotten.

Only heaven had forgotten her.

She was one amongst so many, she
thought : it was not wonderful.

Then she roused herself and went on
with her speech to the child.

I am old and you are young. Soon I
must leave yon, dear, down in the earth,
up in the sky, one way or another I
must so. I am anxious — there is the little
money in the jug under the bricks, and
the linen and the mule, that is all ; the
house goes back to the master. I cannot
tell what you will do — may the saints
spare me just a little. If you were a
woman grown , one would not be so anxious.
To please me will you go and learn of the
Sisters ? '

No,' said the child, resolutely. There
was a bare, dreary place near at hand, where
a few good women dwelt, who nursed the
fever - stricken and taught the children.

n 2

They would have taught this child, too, but
she would never 2:0 to them.

'Within four walls I am stupid as a
stone,' she said, and said aright.

But the Sisters would help you to learn
things useful for all your life.'

The child shook her head.

I can sail a boat and cast a net ; they
cannot.'

Some fisher lad must take you in a year
or two.'

They will not take me,' said the child,
not understanding the sense that was meant.
They are jealous, because I am strong. The
old men take me ; they are kind, sometimes ;
old Andreino most of all.'

Joconda said no more ; she would not
disturb the innocence and ignorance of the
child by saying what she herself had meant.

These thoughts come soon enough,' she
said to herself, and added aloud :

'Don Piero says you sing like all the
angels. That is better than even to sail a
boat, for it pleases those in heaven.'

I sing for myself,' said the child, ' and
it is on the sea that I sing the best. In the
church my throat gets full of dust ; there is
no air, and I hate it.'

Hush, hush ! The church is a holy
place, and the sea may drown you some
day.'

It is a good death,' said the child, carelessly


Joconda shuddered ; she remembered
the night of fifty years before, when her
husband's boat had gone down, heeling over
into the white, boiling surf, on the very edge
of the shore.

There are such beautiful things to see
down, down, deep down, in the sea,' added
the child.

What good is that to them ? Dead
men are blind,' said Joconda wearily.
Whether you lie in the sand or the sea
it matters nothing once you are dead, but it
matters to those that are left. Child, do not
talk of such things ; death is no toy, and the
sea is greedy always.'

The sea is good,' said the child jealously,
as if some creature she loved were
aspersed. ' The sea is better than the
land. You wish me a boy. It is a seagull
that I wish I were ; I would be if I could.'

A seagull cannot sing.'

'I would sooner fly than sing. It is
something that sings in my throat, not me ;

but when I swim, when I dive, that is all
me.'

Joconda for her part did not understand.

You are a strange creature,' she said
impatiently. ' It would have been better if
you had been ugly and quiet, and without
that devil in you that will never let you be
still. But it is no fault of yours. There are
seagulls and there are barn-door fowls, and
the good Lord made them both. Well, go,
rake some seaweed together or any other
rack of your precious sea that one can burn ;
we are very poor ; we shall be poorer, for I
get too old and you are too young.'

Joconda looked after her as the little
erect figure stood out in the light against
the turquoise blue of the sky and sea, and the
primrose colour of the low sunlit clouds.

She would never be a house-keeping,
heaven-fearing thing,' she thought with a
sigh. ' All one can hope for is that she may
please some fishing lad and be an honest
mother of young sea dogs. There is fierce
blood in her ; it will out.'

And she felt sorrowful, and as though
she herself had done some sin, sitting in the
stone archway of her house door with the
-heavy brown sail dropped across her knees.

'EANWHILE, the child went out
to her task. She was always
willing to labour in the open air.
It was only against four walls
that she rebelled.

She had taken a kneel, and a fork, and
went down to the black and purple masses
of als^as that a rough sea of the ni^iit
before had cast on the shore. Her feet were
bare ; her grey linen garment clung close to
her graceful and strong lim]:)s ; her hair was
cut so that it only touched her throat, and
was as brilliant in the sunshine as that bronze
of emperors which had gold grudged in its
formation ; her noble eyes grave, lustrous,
wide opened, gazed over the sunlight, beyond
the bay, to the open sea.

She was not unhappy, because Joconcla
was good to her ; because she had perfect
health and strength, because she had no
sorrow and took no thought, having a simple
unconscious existence like any one of the
northern birds that she was called after ; but
she was always restless ; she always wanted
something, but she never knew what ; sometimes
she would dive head foremost into the
deep water and fancy she might find it there ;
sometimes she would get away into the
moors in the great summer silence, and sit
there alone and wonder, but nothing was
very clear to her.

Without culture, neither wishes nor
wonder are very intelligible, and Musa,
though she had been forced to put letters
together till she could read the names of the
boats and the saints, and other familiar
things, was very ignorant. Her mind was a
blank, — as her soul was ; all that was alive
and strong iii her, was physical life ; life
abundant, vigorous, untiring, beautiful, like
the life of a forest animal.

The few fishing-cobbles that Santa
Tarsilla owned, were out at sea ; there was
only one man left on the beach who was

tinkering up his own old boat and humming
to himself that song of the coast,

Chi va in Maremma, salute il bel giulio
Che sta sullen montagne di Solid !

He was called Andrei no, or Little
Andrew, perhaps for no other reason than
that he was a very tall, lean, angular man ;
bent and yellow, and very old ; so old that
his age was lost even to himself hi the fog
of some irrevocable and inconceivable past.

Avant '1 regno dei Frances,' he would
say with a vague sense of unlimited ancientness.
When a boy he had been very nearly
shot by a squadron of French lancers, and
this had impressed the epoch of invasion on
him ; and most things with him were referred
to that time.

He was a garrulous man, and had many
stories, mythical and fantastical, in which
he believed ; things that he had seen and
done in real truth, but which had become
distorted or transfigured, according to their
kind through the loss of his many years.
To these tales Santa Tarsilla always listened
in the long hot evenings of trio weary
summer, when not a hand had scarcely

strength to twang a string of a chimaera, and
only the tongues wagged on as their owners
lay full length on stone or sand.

Amongst his listeners there was none so
attentive as the wild-bird Delia. She Avould
stand or sit with parted lips and wondering
eyes, and listen to all he said without a word ;
mute and awed, and charmed to stillness.
For that homage of attention, which she had
rendered to him ever since she was old
enough to know the meaning of ^\'ords, old
Andreino favoured her.

Santa Tarsilla did not. She was stronger,
brighter, bolder, than its sickly children, and
moreover it Alas jealous because it was
always thought the woman of Savoy had
hidden treasure, and of course what there
A^•as the child would have, when in due
course the silent life of the Savoyard should
sink into the intense silence of the tomb.

They say he sang too well, and that
was why they burnt him,' said Andreino to
her to-day, after telling her for the hundredth
time of what he had seen once on the
Ligurian shore, far away yonder northward,
when he, who knew nothing of Adonis or
Prometheus, had been called, a stout seafaring
man in that time, amongst other

peasants of the country side, to help bring
in the wood for a funeral p3're by the
sea.

He had known nought of the sonf]:s or
the singer, but he loved to tell the tale he
had heard then ; and say how he had seen,
he himself, with his own eyes, the drowned
poet burn, far away yonder where the pines
stood by the sea, and how the flames had
curled around the heart that men had done
their best to break, and how it had remained
unburned in the midst, whilst all the rest
drifted in ashes down the wind. He knew
nought of the Skylark's ode, and nought of
the Cor Cordial ; but the scene by the seashore
had burned itself as though with flame
into his mind, and he spoke of it a thousand
times if once, sitting by the edge of the sea
that had killed the singer.

Will they burn me if I sing too well ? '
the child asked him this day, the words
of Joconda being with her.

Oh, that is sure,' said Andreiuo, half in
jest and half in earnest. ' Tliey burnt him
because he sang better than all of them.
So they said. I do not know. I know the
resin ran out of the pine wood all goshen
and hissing, and his heart would not burn,

all we could do. You are a female thing,
Musa ; your heart will be the first to burn,
the first of all ! '

"Will it ? ' said Musa, seriously, but not
in any way alarmed, for the thought of that
framing pile by the seashore by night was
a familiar imasje to her.

Aye, for sure ; you will be a woman ! '
said Andreino, hammering into his boat.

She knitted her brows in angry meditation,
and went slowly away from him.

Andreino looked after her as Joconda
had done.

She grows fast,' he said, as lie took his
pipe from his mouth. His wife was sitting
near him on a block of stone, a feeble, ague-stricken,
wasted creature.

She grows fast,' he repeated. ' I wish
we could get her for little Xando ; she hasa
rare com-aofe, and is as handsome as an
almond tree in flower.'

She is a child,' said the wife ; ' how
you talk ! '

In a year she will not be a child. The
almond tree is first to flower, but it is soon
off blossom,' said Andreino, hammering at
the crazy timbers of his old boat. ' The
woman of Savoy should look out for a stout

and honest lad. She is too much alone.
She ponders too much. That is not good.
Were she my girl I would get a good lad.'

There are no lads here.'

But some come ashore from the coasters ;
a child as handsome as that one, with the
pretty penny the woman of Savoy has got
under the hearthstone, need never go a
begging. If she were like Dine, yonder,
she would soon leave off thinking about
dead singers and their hearts.'

He pointed with his pipe-stem to his
grand-daughter, a young woman, who, with
one child on her breast and another on her
back, was mending nets on the mole wall.

'She is a baby herself,' said his wife,
and it is you who tell her all those tales.
Why did you tell her if it was anything
wrong.'

'It is nothing wrong,' said Andreino,
offended. ' Is it likely I would tell a child
a wrong thing ? All the others they listen
and gape ; it is only she who takes the tale
to heart in that fashion. Things one says
are like well-water; it is the pitcher they
are poured into that colours them.'

The pitcher is as it is made,' said the oldwife,
who was a sensible and positive woman.

I never said it was not,' said Andreino.

Musa worked on steadily at her task,
carrying load after load of marramgrass, cud-weed,
and reality, into the house, which stood
at the edge of the little mole of Santa Tarsilla
between the quay and the beach.

When she had reached her last load, and
Joconda, looking up from her own work at
the sail, called out from the distance
enough ! ' she stood a moment with her
hands lightly resting on her hips and looked
over the pale sands the white stones, the
blue waves.

Then she pursued her last task of carrying
in the weed, as other women were doing
also. The morning was young still ; there
was an opal-hued light on land, and sky and
sea ; the low, flat beach was wet with recent
showers ; the air was cool and fragrant ;
even the stagnant salt-pools and the dreary
marsh lands took the sweet hues of the
springtime and the morning.

Although she had taken in a good provision
of the algae and salt-water plants and
stacked it in the mule's stable, it was still
early. Joconda was now baking her black
loaves of bread, and the house was full of
grey smoke.

Euu out again,' she said to the child.
*you are like a goat ; you stay ill at ease iu
stall'

Musa wanted no other word ; she was
out and away along the shore almost as
soon as it was spoken, the dog Leone with
her ; though he grew old he seldom left her
side.

May I have the boat ? ' she asked of
her friend Andreino, and he nodded assent ;
he had to stay at home and mend his nets.
His legs were stiff and helpless with
rheumatism. He adored his boat, but he
could trust her with it. She was as good a
sailor as himself, and knew no fear.

She ran down to the place where the
punt was drawn up on the low sands, and
pushed it to the water ; she sprang in, and
bade the dog stay and mind Joconda. She
set the sail. There was a fair wind blowing
from the south ; the little boat went with it.
Now and then she o-ave it the aid of the
oars, but seldom. She could sit at rest, with
the tiller rope round her foot, and let the
boat go along the shore.

The land had no loveliness on that bay,
but the sea had much in that radiant and
tranquil morning, and from the water even

the land looked almost lovely, with the dark
masses of the mountains at the back still
keeping the clouds and the mists about
them. They were far away, but they looked
almost near, those blue and sombre hills
that had held so many secrets and so many
sins of the father of whom she knew
nothing.

When she had left Santa Tarsilla behind
her by a mile, the water was rougher, the
wind was brisker, the boat flew faster, the
child grew gayer. She was all alone on the
sea as far as her eyes could reach, except fora
few large vessels away on the horizon,
merchant ships bearing grain or spice to the
old harbours of the classic world.

The voice that according to her own
fancy was not herself, but some bird singing
in her, rose unconsciously to her lips as she
felt happy ; happy in the sense of liberty, of
movement, of space, and air, and light. She
sang aloud ; all that sweet, wild, unwritten
music of the people which they sing at marriage
feasts and in threshing yards, about
the forest fires, and behind the oxen's yoke ;
natural song, pastoral and amorous, that
might thrill the world with its sweetness,
only no Theocritus has arisen amongst these

singers to make fair in fame this sad Maremma
land, and to string strophes that
would echo through two thousand years,
telling stories of their sorrows of the sea and
of their loves and lives on land. Centuries
come and go, and every winter the people
sing around their hires, and every summer
the fever wastes them and they die, and the
living still sing because they still love ; but
the world does not hear the song. Shelley
and Theocritus are dead.

Musa sang as the birds do, as the people
do, scarce knowing that she did so, and the
clear, tender notes, with all the flute-like
melody of extreme youth in them, echoed
over the waters, and startled the rock-martins
working at their conical houses.

The child was happy without any reasoning
or any consciousness that she was so, like
any other young animal. The sense of
motion, of fresh wind, of wide sea, of being
able to go Wherever she chose, and guide
the boat as she liked, appeased the restlessness
which tormented her like a fever when she
was in the house of Joconda, or in the
church with the others, or wherever, as
she said, there were four walls imprisoning
her. The other children thought her

VOL. I. I

fierce and sullen, the women thought her
dull and intractable, the priests thought her
heathenish ; but she was none of these
things ; she was only a young creature of
splendid health and vigour, with sentiments
in her that had no name, and found no home
in the world that was around her : she was
the child of Saturnino.

The boat went thro ii oh the waters swiftly,
as the wind blew more strongly ; the sandy
shore with its scrub of low-growing rockrose
^ and prickly Christ's-thorn did not
change its landscape, but what she looked
at always was the sea ; the sea that in
the light had the smiling azure of a young
child's eyes, and dien the clouds cast
shadows on it, had the intense impenetrable
brilliancy of a jewel.

In the distance were puffs of white and
grey, like smoke or mist ; those mists were
Corsica and Carrara.

Elba towered close at hand,

Gorgonaa lay far beyond, with all the other
little isles that seem made to shelter Miranda
and Ariel, but of Gorgonaa she knew nothing ;
she was steering straight towards it, but it was
many a league distant on the northerly water.

^ Helianthemum cfpenninu?n.

When lie at last stopped lier boat in its
course she was at the Sasso Scritto : a favourite
resting-place with her, where, on feast-days,
when Joconda let her have liberty from
housework and rush-plaiting and spinning of
flax, she always came.

Northward, there was a long? smooth
level beach of sand, and beyond that a lagoon
where all the water-birds that love both the
sea and the marsh came in large flocks, and
spread their wings over the broad spaces in
which the salt water and the fresh were
mingled. Beyond this there were cliffs of
the humid red tufa, and the myrtle and the
holy thorn grew down their sides, and met
in summer the fragrant hesperus of the shore.

These cliffs were fine bold bluffs, and one
of them had been called from time immemorial
the Sasso Scritto, — why, no one knew ;
the only writing on it was done by the
hand of Nature. It was steep and lofty ; on
its summit were the ruins of an old fortress
of the middle ages ; its sides were clothed
with myrtle, aloe, and rosemary, and at its
feet were boulders of marble, rose and white
in the sun ; rock pools, with exquisite network
of sunbeams crossing their tippling
surface, and filled with green ribbon-grasses

I 2

and red sea-foliage, and shining gleams of
broken porphyry, and pieces of agate and
cornelian.

The yellow sands hereabouts were bright
just now with the sea-dafFodil, and the sea-stocks,
which would blossom later, were
pricking upward to the Lenten light ; great
clusters of southern wood waved in the wind,
and the pungent sea-rush grew in long lines
along the shore, where the sand-piper was
dropping her eggs, and the blue-rock was
carrying dry twigs and grass to his home in
the ruins above or the caverns beneath, and
the stock-doves in large companies were
wino'inf^ their way over sea towards the
Maritime or the Pennine Alps.

This was a place that Musa loved, and
she would come here and sit for hours, and
watch the roseate cloud of the returning
flamingoes winging their way from Sardinia,
and the martins busy at their masonry in the
cliffs, and the Arctic longipennes going away
northward as the weather opened, and the
stream-swallows hunting early gnats and
frogs on the water, and the kingfisher digging
his tortuous underground home in the sand.
Here she would lie for hours amongst the
rosemary, and make silent friendships with the

populations of the air, while the sweet blue
sky was above her head, and the sea, as blue,
stretched away till it was lost in light.

Once up above, on these cliffs, the eye
could sweep over the sea north and south,
and the soil was more than ever scented
with that fragrant and humble blue-flowered
shrub of which the English madrigals and
glees of the Stuart and Hanoverian poets so
often speak, and seem to smell. Behind the
cliffs stretched moorland, marshes, woodland,
intermingled, crossed by many streams, holding
many pools, blue fringed in May with
iris, and osier beds, and vast fields of reeds,
and breadths of forest with dense thorny
underwood, where all wild birds came in
their season, and where all was quiet, save fora
bittern's cry, a boar's snort, a snipe's scream,
on the lands once crowded with the multitudes
that gave the eagle of Persia and the
brazen trumpets of Lydia to the legions of
Eome.

Under their thickets of the prickly sloe-tree
and the sweet-smelling bay lay the
winding ways of buried cities ; their runlets
of water rippled where kings and warriors
slept beneath the soil, and the yellow
marsh lily, and the purple and the rose

of the wind-flower and the masque-flower,
and the bright red of the Easter tulips,
and the white and the gold of the asphodels,
and the colours of a thousand other
rarer and less homelike blossoms, spread
the innocent glory in their turn to the sky
and the breeze, above the sunken stones of
courts and gates and palaces and prisons.

These moors were almost as solitary as
the deserts are.

Now and then, against the blue of the
sky and the brown of the wood, there rose
the shapes of shepherds and their flocks ;
now and then herds of young horses went by,
fleet and unconscious of their doom ; now
and then the sound of a rifle cracked the
silence of the windless air ; but these came
but seldom.

Maremma is wide, and its people are
scattered.

In autumn and in winter hunters, shepherds,
swineherd, sportsmen, birdcatchers,
might spoil the solemn peace of these moors,
but in spring and summer no human soul
was seen upon them. The boar and the
buffalo, the flamingo and the roebuck, the
great plover and the woodcock, reigned alone.

The child loved them and came to them.

Tireless, she would wander over the grass and
moss and thyme for hours and hours ; even
when the sun was so strong that the very
eicalas themselves were silent against their
wont, she felt no harm from it, and the
fevers that lurked in bush and brake never
touched her ; in these calm solitary places,
where she was alone with the powerful
creatures, four-footed or winged, that slept
beside her in the drowsy, sultry noons, lie
was at ease and happy". Even in the sickly
drouth of midsummer, when the turf was like
sheets of brass, and the very trees seemed
to faint and pant, she was well here.

She tied her boat now to a tough slunib
growing on the edge of the shore and began
to go inland ; a slender figure for her age,
tall, brown, and lithe, with a proud dauntless
carriage of her head and body, and eyes
that seemed made like the earle's to dart
their lio^lit into the \\<i\\i of the sun.

The road she took now lay over the
cliffs and across the moorland ; although so
much nobler and more beautiful than the
marshy ground that stretched so drearily
around Santa Tarsilla, it was not much
healthier, for heavy vapours hung over it,
and stagnant waters intersected it, but it

had far more character and a luxuriant vegetation,
thrush both were sombre and mourn-fill
from the utter loneliness that prevailed
there.

She went onwards, happy though 
watching with grave eyes the flight
of feathered things and the movements of
animal life. She knew their ways better
than those of the human people around herat
Santa Tarsilla ; the turtle-dove and the
common coot, the fox and the hare, the
mole and the porcupine, and a hundred
other tribes that lived their life in the dull
waste once peopled by the Pelasgic and
Etruriann nation — all were dear to her and
familiar ; and even of the savage boar, the
monarch of the marshes, she was never
afraid when he passed her with gleaming
tusks and fierce eyes, crushing boughs and
branches in his ponderous haste, and pushing
his shaggy crest through the reeds.

She used to wish that she were he, great,
strong, bold, ruler of the swamps, having his
hardy life under the oak shadows, and
dying, when he did die, with his front to the
foe and his fanofs red with vengeance.

Why cannot they let him alone ? ' she
said to herself once, when she saw hunters

pursuing liii with their hounds through the
hot dank solitudes that were his rightful
kingdom. She had sympathy with the
hunted, not with the hunters.

The boar, let alone, did no living thing
harm ; he ate the green leaves, the wet grass,
the red reeds, the wild fruits ; he only wanted
the air to breathe, the moor to roam over,
the pool to bathe in. Where was the sin of
such a simple need ? She did not reason,
she only felt, and the fate of the hunted and
innocent brutes seemed a wrong to her, a
cruel and wanton wrongs.

To-day she saw a herd of them, at a little
distance, in peace, pushing through the reedy
thickets, happy in their own rough clumsy
way, lifting their bristling manes above the
flower-foam of the spring-snowflakes and
the Lenten lilies.

She was glad to see them so, and went
on, content.

The sun shone, the birds sang, the roots
of the nuphar lutea were beginning to
spread their broad leaves on the waters, the
primroses and daffodils were making the
sombre earth bright in many a nook by the
shallows and pools. It wa in Maremma,
accursed Maremma, but it was springtime,

and even here the world was once more
young. Musa passed singing — like the poet's
Pippa.

She was accursed for no fault of her
own, like her native Maremma, but it was
springtime with her also, for it was youth.

Suddenly as her light feet went over hills
and hillocks that here were of yellow sandstone,
not of tufa, and were clothed and
covered up in greenery, she felt the earth
give way beneath her ; she sank through the
creeping moss and maidenhair up to her
hips ; she thought it was one of the innumerable
spots where stagnant water was
hidden under foliage and flowers, but her
feet were not wet ; it was not even mud.
She had caught hold of some tangled junipers
as she felt herself sink, and by these raised
herself on to safer standing ground. Looking?
down to see whv it was the earth had driven
way, since there was no water and no
swamp, she saw a hole in the ground like a
fox's earth. It was into this hole her feet
had gone. Thinking always of the creatures
of the moorland she leaned down to see which
of them might have made his lair there.

The wood grew very thickly everywhere,
but the arbutus undo and bilberry and

laurel, the butcher's broom, aud mountains,
and ever-prevailing niarucca, grew
more luxuriantly still above these mounds.

She stooped nearer and cleared the
grasses away ; there was an orifice large
enough for all her body to enter, and she
saw a step of stone down in the dusk of the
opening. Musa did not know fear, and
enterprise was strong in her.

With some difficulty she thrust herself
downward into the aperture ; and, groping
with head bent and shoulders bowed, got
her feet upon the stone. It was the first
step of a staircase ; of such a staircase as was
hewn roughly and laid together in the old
house of Joconda, to lead down into the
cellar. The descent was difficult, the passage
very narrow ; the sunbeams slanting in
showed lier the outline of the stairs, and she
thrust herself down them, bruising herself at
every step.

At the foot of this rude stairway was a
portico, without doors, and with the figure
of a winged genius holding a torch, and
of a couchant lion, carved boldly on each
side of it in the stratified sandstone of the
rock. The rank growth, overhead and all
around, of vegetation, made a labyrinth of

prickly boughs and of entangled foliage
before the porch, as above the steps. But
the curiosity and the interest of Musa were
awakened ; she knew it was no shepherd's
dwelling, for their huts were always raised
upon the open soil, conical in shape, and
thatched with rushes and ling. She hacked
away the thorny network that made a screen
before this open doorway, having in her
girdle the large strong knife that she always
carried for many uses, and after some long
tedious labour, which tore her hands and arms
with many a thorn, and sent many a spider
and beetle and little snake hurrying from
their homes, she cleared the way before the
opening enough to pass through it with her
shoulders bent, and found herself in a small,
square, stone chamber hewn out of the rock,
and empty, save for a little grey dust in a
niche like a dog's kennel, and an urn or
vase of red and black earthenware.

It looked a strange, chill, melancholy
place ; she could not make out its use or
object ; there was no scholar near to say to
her, ' this dreary vestibule is the imitation of
the cellula janitor ; yonder is the dust of
some favourite watch-dog ; in the urn, doubtless,
are the ashes of some favoured and

faithful slave ; the master must lie beyond ;
it was only the humble whose bodies were
burned.'

Learning' was not with her to sled liulit
on her from its lamp ; she had no other
chide than instinct, and instinct here was
naturally curiosity. In her temper timidity
had no place. In front of lier, in the wall
of this entrance-chamber was a stone door, a
double, or, as it is commonly termed, foldings
door, ti^rht closed. She crossed the
rock-floor of the place, while a great grand-duke
owl, roused and alarmed, flew heavily
by her, as owls fly when daybreak overtakes
them, and strings of bats hanging to
the stone jambs of the roof, clinging to each
other by their claws, in a string, like so many
onions, now awakened from their winter
sleep, swayed to and fro uneasily, and
uttered their shrill sibilation of annoyance
and fear. Probably for thousands of years,
generation after generation of neuroptera
had there made their daily bed, their winter's
refuge, undisturbed by man, at nightfall
finding their way through the tangle of the
shrubs and flying on their moth-hunting
quest over the wide face of the moor.

It is like the cavern of S. Giovanni

Bocca cVOro,' she thought ; not that she had
much affinity with holy men and legends,
but their histories had been all the teaching
she had received.

All the while, as she pondered thus, and
wondered if she should find S. John Chrysostom
here, with the glory round his head,
she continued her efforts to inclose the
door, above the lintel of which there was
painted on the sandstone a strange winged
shape with angry countenance and Wreathing
curls.

She pushed with all her young strength
against that mysterious barrier.

A strange excitement and anxiety, such
as she had never felt, possessed her. She
longed to ]penetrate the secret of these
strange dwellings. She said to herself,
Joconda found me in the hills ; may be
these people that dwell in stone lower than
the surface of the earth are my own people.'

It was an odd fancy that had come into
her head, but she thought it so likely that
she had been born in some such place as
this, hidden away under the leaves and the
furze, where men could not reach, nor the
scream of their voices intrude.

She had torn and hacked the shrubs

away from about the entrance, and the
light from the cloudless skies above shone
down steadily. She pushed with her hands
against the stone with the innocent unreasoning
curiosity of a child. There Alas
no lock nor bolt upon the door, nor
were there any hinges. It would turn,
if it turned at all, in sockets cut in the
stone ; and turn at the last it did, slowly
opening as though some unwilling hand
were behind it. She thrust it backwards,
wider and wider, until she entered it, and
stood on the threshold of a narrow chamber
hewn in the dark grey rock ; on either side
couched a stone lion. She entered ; timid
for the first time in her bold brief life.

Around the walls ran benches of stone ;
on them stood vases and jars in black ware,
and others in white painted pottery, bronze
lamps, and amber ornaments, and strange
little vessels whose like she had never seen.
There was nothing else. An archway, however,
in the end wall showed beyond another
and larger chamber. Curiosity and wonder
mastering fear, the child passed through the
first room and entered the second.

On its threshold she paused entranced
and appalled.

Upon the walls of this spacious place
were painted figures seated at a banquet,
dancing before an altar, leading strange
forest beasts, playing on lyres, riding on
many-coloured steeds : around them and
above them were pictured lotus flowers.

But these she scarcely saw in the dim
shadowy atmosphere ; Avhat her gaze was
fastened on, what made her tremble in every
limb, was the recumbent figure, stretched
upon a bier of stone, of a man in armour of
bronze and casque of gold ; a gold cup stood
beside him on the ground, and a shield of
gold was on the bier, and a golden lamp
was near, of which the light was spent.
About his helmet was a diadem of oak-leaves
in gold, and on his breast was an ivory
sceptre tipped with an eagle of gold.

When the vast, desolate, lonely lands
stretching towards the south had borne on
their breast the towers and walls and palaces
and sepulchres of Yetidonia and Cosa,
of Ensellai and Tarquin, of Ardea and
Norcliia, this man had been a magnate of the
land ; his women, his children, his servitors,
this descendants for mau}^ a generation, had
doubtless been laid in costly state here,
where the mastic-tree and the mountain-box

now flourished and built a green wall between
them and the world.

Youth laughed and kissed ; ships went
and came over the sunny sea ; street crowds
still met for sale and barter ; and marble
walls still towered up to heaven in man's
pretence of majesty and mockery of the
imperishable ; in cities, and ports, human life
was still the same as in the days of pride of
Telamon and Populonia, but little changed
in substance and in temper, if altered in
mere outward form.

Yet, though all living mankind were his
brethren, like unto him as one white bean
of the fields is like another, unimproved,
purified — nay, in some senses far more
ignorant and unlovely than he — the Etruria
noble had no friend or remembrance
amongst modern multitudes, and all his
pomp and elegance in death, and all his
tenderness for those he loved, had failed to
keep him a place upon the earth ; and the
weeds and the wild shrubs had covered him,
even as they covered the empty hole of a
dead snake.

The child, who knew nothing of the
great Lydian nation that had once reigned
in her Maremma, stood silent and immovable

VOL. I. K

in great awe. For a few moments her eyes
beheld the form of the dead warrior ; then,
all in an instant, it crumbled away before her
very sight, riveted in amaze upon it.

The air and the light entering with her,
after exclusion for two thousand years or
more, reached the oxidized armour, the
recumbent corpse, and melted them back to
dust. Soon, where the warrior, who looked
to her but sleeping, had been stretched on
his cold bed, there was nothing but a few
grey ashes.

She stood motionless as though she
were changed to marble ; a sort of trance
had fallen upon her as the golden king had
faded into that heap of pallid ashes. A
cloud had obscured the sun, and the feeble
light that had reached the subterranean
chamber had ceased to come there, the
painted figures on the walls faded away in
the gloom ; it seemed to be already night.

She was afraid, but her fear had the
sublimity of awe in it, and nothing of the
feebleness of terror. Was it death ? was it
life ? was it a god ? was it a devil that was
near her now ?

All the words that she had heard in the
church of Santa Tarsilla, and which had

no real meaning for her, thronged on her
memory now. She was afraid, but she was
enthralled ; the horror that was upon her
had both beauty and tyranny in it.

This king was dust.

All his gold had availed him nothing;
when the air or the light had touched him,
he and it had dissolved and perished.

He had been there one moment before,
and now was gone for ever.

An immense wonder and an infinite pity
began to drive the terror from her soul and
take its place. There was his place of rest,
there was his bed of stone, and he was gone,
taking his treasures with him. Had they
melted into the rays of the sun and gone on
the wings of the wind ? Why had he not
taken her too ? She would have been so
glad to go.

The place grew darker and darker ; for
up above, in the world of the living, the sun
was sinking to its setting into the deep-blue
sea.

Absolute night enshrouded her here ;
the Great cold of the tomb bef]^an to chill
her veins and freeze her heart ; for the first
time in all her fearless young years lie was
afraid ; she honored for some hinnan voice

- K 2

some toiicli of warm and moving life, some
friendliness of animal or bird. For the
ghastly dread of the unknown and of the
unseen was for the first time upon her. She
tried to call aloud, but she was dumb.

A heavy impenetrable darkness seemed
to fall on her, and she thought as it smote
her, ' this is death ! ' That death which
Joconda had spoken of that day, which then
to her had been unintelligible and without
dread. Death had been here so long alone
and in peace, and she had broken in upon
his rest, and he in wrath had claimed her.
So she thought, dully and feebly, as the
darkness seemed to bend her under it asunder
some falling mountain, and she lost
all knowledge and all sight.

!HEN she regained her consciousness,
a slender thread of light
was shining on the rocky floor.
It was a ray of the risen moon.
Day was quite gone, and night had come
to bear death company.

She raised herself slowly upon her feet,
and though her heart beat with the force of
hammers, and every limb quivered with a
ghostly fear, the courage inborn in her
roused itself, and moved her to struggle for
life and liberty. The grey dust lay behind
her, the dust which was the only thing left
of a human corpse and a golden treasure.
But the dust to her was neither warrior nor
gold ; to her the dead man had arisen at the
touch of the sunbeams, and lead gone out

away into the light, and had left her alone
in his place.

The great fear Alas still upon her like
frost upon a flower.

She could not understand what she had
seen. She could not comprehend what place
this was in which she stood. But the instinct
of reviving" life made her lons^ to rise and
flee ; it put strength into her limbs and
courage into her veins ; she dragged herself
towards the entrance, thrust herself through
the narrow aperture, and forced herself once
more up into the air, under the open sky.

When she sa^v^ the bushes around her
and the stars above, she gave a cry of joy ;
they were familiar, they were friends.

She breathed asrain.

o

She felt no fear of the fresh night, of the
lonely moors, of the silence and the solitude
of these marshes that stretched around.
She knew them all. When the bats flew
by her, and the owls, she stretched out her
hand to them and laughed aloud.

After that awful silence, that intense
cold, that terrible nameless burial-place, the
moles burrowing; in the black earth, the
water-beetle blundering: through the shadows,
the stealthy polecat hunting rats through

the prickly punr/ente,^ the common snipe
forao'inGf for skies and snails amongst the
sharp spines of the water-soldier, the woodcock
winging his way against the wind ashe
likes best to do, the great plover trotting
to the marsh to drink, these were all dear
companions, welcome as the air.

She made her way quickly over the
solitary moor down to the beach. Some far-off
bell from a church far inland on the
waste was tolling for vespers ; the night was
clear and cold. She found her boat safe, and
unmoored it and rowed backward. There
was no wind, and the way seemed very long.
For the first time in her life she felt terrified
and feeble. Tie sea looked so wide and the
heavens so vast.

The moon was full and of a deep gold
colour ; she wondered was it the dead man's
golden shield that lay in the tomb all day
and at night was held up there by unseen
hands? A golden shooting-star flashed
down the west ; she thought it was the deadman's
vanished spear.

The dead had risen and fled.

Was he there in the lustre of the sky ?

The great fear went with her like a pure

Scarjriurui) innricdtn.

suing shadow, yet an immense longing, an
intense eagerness, were with her too ; if only
she could go where he was gone, if only
she could know that mystery !

But she could only bend over her oars
and send her boat through the phosphorescent
calm of tranquil water. Neither sea
nor sky answered her.

When she reached Santa Tarsilla, the
village was all dark. It was midnight. The
fishing smacks were still out, far away by
many a mile, and the men with them.
The women and children slept. She fastened
the boat to its iron ring in the stone landing,
and went slowly ashore.

On the edge of the little water worn low
pier an old woman stood and a white dog ;
the dog rushed to her, the woman cried
angrily, 'Wliy give us this fright? I bid
you always be in at moonrise. I have been
here for hours, looking, looking, looking,
while Leone howled '

It was not my fault,' said the child in a
low tone. ' I have seen strange things.'

Pray God you have not seen your
father,' thought Joconda, as she said aloud,
Come to the house ; you must be hungry.'

No,' said Musa ; but she went with Joconda

homeward, and when she got there
drank thirstily ; she could not eat. Joconda
waited for her to speak in vain.

What have you seen ? ' she asked at
last.

I have seen Death, and it is beautiful,'
the child answered wearily.

Beautiful ? ' said Joconda. ' Child, you
have not yet seen what you love die ! Do
not speak in riddles. What have you seen ? '

Musa told her what she had seen ; speaking
in a hushed strange voice, and with pain.

Is that all ? ' said Joconda, when she
had ended. ' That is nothing. You stumbled
on a grave. I know those people.
They are underneath the soil everywhere
hereabouts. We call them bouche delle fate.
They were great people once, I have
heard tell, who had cities and palaces and
the like, and all is covered with thistles
and thorns now ; they buried their gold
with them, but it did them no good. There
are plenty of their graves all over the
country, and treasure is dug out of them.
But it is not well to rob the dead. Forme
I would not do so. You took nothing ? '

I ? It all went away with him ; went
away into the air.'

That is folly,' said Joconda, ' and if you
talk of it so, none will believe you ; they
will say you have robbed the tomb, and
there will be bad work, and I am not sure
to whom that waste land belongs. Say
nothing. That will be best. You have seen
something, surely, for you look scared, but
to say the gold and the dead went into the
air is folly.'

I say the truth,' said the child.

You slept and dreamed, and I am tired.
Get you to bed. It is midnight.'

But who were those dead people ? '

That I do not know, and what does it
matter? Poor souls — their day is done.'

But the earth-reis it all a grave ? '

Ay ; and we shall be in it ; no fear
of our not having our turn ; I almost wish
you had brought a bit of the gold if you
really did see it, not that it Avould have been
right.'

Did God make men and women ? ' she
asked, meeting the eyes of Joconda, who
answered testily —

Por sure, and He might have made
them better when He was after it.'

'He must have been more glad when
He made the coral in the deep sea, and

set the lilies in the pools,' said the child
wearily.

Joconda sighed and stared.

Aye, there is nothing to make Him glad
in any of us. The wicked never cease from
troubling, and the whitest souls are but
greyish and spotted, like a fungus in a wood
Sometimes I have thought myself He must
repent. But I talk wickedly. Have you
lain in moonlight, child, that you say such
odd think's ? '

Musa was silent.

I think those people are my kindred,'
she said under her breath to Joconda, who
replied :

Well, they may be ; no one knows
whence you come ; ' and said to herself, to
excuse the lie to her conscience, ' and no
one does, for I never heard tell who Serapia's
people were ; some said one thing and some
another.'

But how did I come to you ? ' said
Musa, with that direct question which Joconda
had always dreaded.

I picked you up on the hills in ,'
said Joconda ; and said to herself,
and that certainly is true.'

Musa asked no more. Her thoughts

were with all those dead people under the
ground, whose gold outlived them.

Her great eyes looked up through the
unglazed window to red Arcturus shining in
the constellation of Bootes.

Do the dead sleep all day in the dark
in the earth and at night shine in there ? '
she asked, gazing at silvery Spica hanging
above the sea.

Joconda pushed her to her bed.

Leave the dead alone. You have just
begun to live. Get you to bed, for it is late
and oil is dear. If you had brought a little
bit of the gold now — God forbid I should
tell you to steal, but the dead are dead and
it could not have harmed them.'

The child lay down and turned her face
to the wall : her cheeks were wet with
tears.

^E child never after that night
spoke of what she had seen in
the tomb. She shut it in her
thoughts with many another thing,
and did not share it. But her mind was constantly
busy with these dead people, who all
slept on their beds of rock and when the air
touched them fled. She longed to see them,
know of them, go with them.

There was no one to tell her anything.
In this ancient land of theirs no one knew
of the Etruscans. Strangers came and dug
indeed about the Maremma, and rifled the
graves that they found, this they knew, but
there were no graves known of at Santa
Tarsilla, and the subject had no interest for
them, and was not even intelligible. In

other parts the scattered peasantry here and
there made a little money as custodians of
the opened tombs, and wondered to see
travellers ford bridi^eless streams and force
a difficult way through the prickles merely to
see painted caves with coffins of stone.

But there were none of these near at
hand, and Santa Tarsilla knew nothing but
of its own fever, its own fishing, and its own
smuggling, carried on under the very e3'es
of the sickly coastguard in a small way, but
successfully ; Santa Tarsilla within a few

miles of Cosa and Vetulonia knew nothing
of Etruria.

Tliat Joconda knew anything was because
she was a northern woman, and so
had keen use of both her eyes and ears, and
coming and going to and from Grosseto
through fifty long years had gathered many
a quaint random scrap of information, and
remembered it even when she could make
but little of it.

Musa had a strong visionary fancy,
though no poet read or history studied had
fed it. All she had ever lead to nourish it
were the songs and improvisations of the
foresters and mountaineers, when, with
autumn and spring-time, they came into

Santa Tarsilla on their way to and from the
woods and hills ; rough men and wild, but
often eloquent, making their lutes sound
sweetly by the side of the moonlit sea, or
rolling out strophe and antistrophe, unconscious
of their harmonies, as the wave broke
upon the sand.

Her fancy, untrained but strong, like the
wild ' mother of the woods ' that brought
forth its blossoms unseen over the waste
around, made of the dead Etruscans her
own nation, and of their subterranean graves
her temple.

You live too much with these dead
people, child,' said Joconda to her.

They do me no harm,' saidMusa. ' The
having make me angry often, and I strike
them sometimes; the dead make me ashamed
that I am ever wicked.'

They were wicked enough themselves,
most like,' grumbled Joconda. ' I will be
bound men and women have never differed
much.'

They do me good,' said Musa ; and she
said no more.

They were sacred to her. She could
not have put into words what she felt, but
it was very strong in her, this sense of

tenderness, of kinship, of reverence, with
which the lonely tombs moved her.

Musa in her utter ignorance would not
for her life have robbed of an ounce of gold
or a vase of clay these dead sleepers of a
sleep of three thousand years.

She was jealous over them, she worshipped
them, they were her idols ; let others
have their saints as they would, she had
never cared for the saints ; she cared for
these ghostly hosts who filled the under
chambers of the earth and waited so calmly,
so patiently, with the oak and the thorn and
the myrtle growing above their heads.

On all the earth there is in truth nothing
so intensely sad, so intensely solemn, as the
thought of the buried cities that lie with
their buried millions under the hurrying feet
of living multitudes, or lost in the green
silences where orchids bloom, and the thorn
of Christ puts forth its golden flowers, and
the dragon-flies spread gossamer wings above
the fritillaria and fraxinella. As scholars
know, she knew nothing of them ; but as
poets feel for them, she felt.

Whenever Musa had a day of freedom,
fascinated by her very fear, she went to the
spot on the moor where she had found the

sleeping warrior. The place had awe and
seduction for her stronger than anything
else, even stronger than the sea. She felt
that the earth held a mystery, a Avhole inner
world of mute motionless creatures.

Of death she had never thought except
on that one day when Joconda had spoken of
dying. She had seen the dull black bier go
by borne by the beccamorti ; she had seen
the torches flare as the dead went home, and
knew that they were put away underground,
and wondered that they were not thrown into
the sea. Children, who had been at play on
the shore beside her one week, the next were
dead of fever, and were buried ; that she
knew very well, but she had never thought
about it. These skeletons on their beds of
rock were the first creatures that made her
think of the fate that waits for every living
thing.

Was he dead indeed, that hero robed in
golden beauty, who had passed out under the
stars and been seen no more ? Then death
could not be terrible, she thought ; to lie
still undisturbed till you went out to the
stars and the clouds, that was so sweet and
grand, no one need fear it.

She conquered her first terror and went

VOL. I. L

ao^aiu and ao-ain to the tomb. There was
the couch of rock, the floor, the walls,
the faintly coloured banquet, but the hero
returned no more. When the day was
bright and noon was high she would go
down out of its heat and light into the gloom
of that cold chamber and sit upon the bed
that die dead had left and watch, always
vaguely and wistfully, hoping he would
return to tell her all the secrets of the grave,
all the glories of the skies.

Beyond this chamber in which the
Lucumo and his treasures had lain, an open
stone door led to another room of the same
dimensions, and from that again, beyond
other doors of stone, opened out two cells,
divided by a wall of the natural rock. In
all these three there were, as she saw, not
then but in after days, stone benches and
stone chairs, dust-covered. The dust had
once been human bones.

Here, too, there were painted jars and
bowls, bronze candelabra and utensils of
beautiful workmanship and exquisite form,
ivory and enamel toys, glass and gold
necklaces and clasps and brooches, amber
amulets, and jewellery and rings. The
walls and the roofs also of these tombs

were painted. In one, Mantus and Mania
held dread court of judgment ; on another
the twelve gods sat in council ; here
the lotus and the bulrush sprang to life,
and Etruscan boys danced and leapt and
strung the lyre ; there Cup and Horta
sported amidst flowers, and Vertumnus was
crowned with fruit.

The graves had doubtless all belonged to
the same family that of the great Lucumo,
whose skeleton and armour had melted and
vanished at the first touch of air. Possibly
he had been one of the forgotten kings of
the Tyrrhene people ; certainly he had been
some mighty warrior-prince, since he had
lead the corona etruscan about his casque, and
the eagle with spread wings upon his ivory
sceptre.

The shape and sentiment of Greek art
.were visible on all the ornaments of his
burial chamber ; the painted vases were all of
Greek taste, polychrome and decorated with
divine figures or groups of fruits or flowers ;
such vases as are oftener found in Athens
than Etruria. Probably this necropolis had
been contemporary with, or somewhat
earlier than, Alexander of Macedon.

The tombs had been undiscovered alike

L 2

by Eoman or Gothic greed of gold, and
modern science lead not dreamed of their
existence, even whilst busied in the excavations
of Cyclopean Cosa, near at hand,
southward, on the same seashore. Doubtless
other sepulchres adjoined these, made
under the same low swell of friable sandstone
cliffs and hillocks, but any others were
grown over by brushwood, and engulfed in
earth disturbed by volcanic action, no trace
of them, or of any opening that might have
led to them, was ever found, even though in
after days Musa searched diligently and often.
They were lost as utterly as the vast labyrinth
of Porsenna is lost ; only the janitor's
room had been left some little connection
with the upper earth, and outer soil, by the
passage of wild animals, who had found
through the ever-open door of the entrance-cell
a lair of safety.

Their lonely territory was southward of
the great lake that the Eomans called Lacus
April, along whose shore the Aurelian
Way once was made ; it was northward
of the weird rocks of Monte Argentaro,
and shared in the rich sylva and flora
which the central part of the Maremma
possesses, in that grander and virginal aspect

which the province between the rivers of
Onibrone and Fiora owes to the forests of
pine, of ilex, of cork, of oak, of manna-ali,
and of locust-tree which clothe the slopes
beneath the Apennines ; to the wilderness of
evergreen trees and shrubs that cover in their
verdure and dusky glooin the ruins of Eoman
roads, of Latin castles, of Tyrrhene towns and
sepulchres ; to the innumerable pools and
streams and lakes which are hidden away
under impenetrable thickets, and known
only to the sultan-hen and the wild duck,
the nocturnal plover and the common coot
Away to the southward stretched vast grass-lands,
peopled solely by the melancholy
buffalo, covered in spring with the elysian
asphodel ; and the dreary, solemn, almost
treeless moors, walled in from the east by
sombre mountain heights, and covering beneath
their soil lost Ansedonia and perished
Cosa, and the tombs of the Tarquin, and the
moats and ramparts of the once mighty Ardea,
and many another perished greatness of which
the very name had been forgotten even in
Virgil's generation.

Between the moors and the sea stretched
all along the coast a yellow sandy beach,
or a wide algae-strewn swamp, or a rocky

stony waste bearing the traces still of the
ancient Consular way.

From the hills and mounds of sandstone,
covered with mountain box and
juniper bushes, that swelled up low and
long in a ridge that traversed the part
of the moorland which she so especially
haunted, the child, looking north and south,
could see the whole coast-line from the
deep semicircular bay to the eastward,
enclosed between Populonia and the Cape of
Trojan, and facing the peaks of Elba, to the
south-westward where Telamone had been a
crowded port, and where once the great
Argo herself had anchored, yet where now
even the little coasters, that drew but two feet
of water, often ran aground, and dull Orbe-tell
sheltered a dreary life of sickly soldiers
and of sullen coasti]^uards and of listless
people picking the salt crystals from the
soil.

Over that blue sea, where once the
Argonauts sailed, and the Etruscan pirates
hunted the Latin galleys, and the merchant
vessels went out from the grand and busy
ports laden with the Lydian wool, the ironwork
that Eome deemed of even more worth
than men, the silver and the gold chasing

that Greece eagerly bought and could not
equal, the yellow grain that made Marenima
then, as now, the granary of Italy, over that
blue sea there still came stately ships bound
for Athens or for Asia, fleets of fishing craft
with their lateen sails curved and white in
the summer sun, brigs laden to the water-line
with carc^o and steering; straight for
Africa. But on the land, the wondrous,
mysterious, memory-haunted land, where
the lost cities lay under the forests, and
the labyrinths of endless cemeteries wound
beneath the sand and turf, there scarce
any sign of human life was ever to be
seen, save when a mounted shepherd on his
wild and shaggy horse rode in amongst the
herds of buffalo — a true son still of the
fierce Etruscan jk76'^o;7' whom even Eome
confessed none could war with and none
could win without.

True, not very far off there were the
ironworks of Follonica beatings the ore
of Elba into shape, in the only vigorous
work to be found along the coast-line, true
sons of the Etruscan Sethlans, who were
said to be rough, coarse, ill company enough
if met away from their sweltering furnaces.
But of the smiths of l^ollonica she knew

no more than she knew of the Etruscan
Vulcan.

Another year went by, and the girl grew
taller and stronger, and had Santa Tarsilla
counted young men amidst its population,
they would have looked full well and often
at that dark yet luminous face that vas by
old Joconda's side in the morning mist and
the troubled sunlight of the dull church at
time of mass. Joconda kept her close, and
encouraged her to be silent. Joconda was
not loquacious like those chatterers of the
seaboard, and she always thought that
no harm could come from holding your
tongue, though much might come ' from
wagging it.

At fifteen, Musa, as she was now oftener
called, and would be called in Santa Tarsilla
if she lived in it a century, was a noble-looking
and beautiful creature, with pride
in her glance, and more still of shyness,
with a bearing royal in its calmness and its
freedom, and an untamed and sombre spirit
in her blood.

When old Andreino saw her at his tiller
or from his boat's side looked down at her
as she lifted her bronze-hued, loose-curled
head, like a young god's, out of the waters,

he would say to himself, ' that suits her
better than distaff and missal ; there is the
courage of sea-lions in her.'

But going to mass by Joconda's side,
with her cross on her breast and her palm-branch
in her hand, at Easter-time, she looked
but a girl, simple, silent, docile, wise in some
things beyond her age ; yet she seemed out
of keeping with the place and with the
people ; and the old woman would glance at
her, and think, ' would not one know there
was wild blood there P ' and feel her own
heart heavy as she looked.

She had been brought up in the best
ways Joconda knew; taught cleanliness,
truthfulness, and industry could spin welland
be useful in the house, though she hated
confinement under a roof, and the moment
she was set free rushed to the air like a bird
loosed from a cage.

Whether she had affection in lier or not,
Joconda could not tell ; the only creature
she ever caressed was the Molossus dog.

As for learning, she had little. She
could read slowly, and she could write very
badly ; this was all that she had been forced
to do. But she could, as she said, steer and
row like the best of them ; she could take

the helm of a felucca and bring it safely in
over the algas-lieaps and dangerous shallows
of the choked harbour ; she could fling a
net with force and skill, though when it was
full of shining, struggling little fish, she often
liked to loose it and let them all slide back
whence they came ; and furthermore she
could sing all the rossetti and stornelli of the
Maremmano shore to the throbbing strings
of an old lute, which Joconda's sons in their
short lives had loved to make music with,
when they came homo from the coral fishes.
The chords of that lute and the clear
voice from her young tln^oat were the only
melody that ever enlivened the damp hot
nights, when the scirocco was filling the
sorry houses with sand and the haze on the
sea hid the m-een Giojho isle.

Even her singing took its character from
the melancholy and abandonment that characterised
the land and the water, and it
was rarely that she chose other themes than
the passionate laments of the provincial
cannon, for those who go far out to sea at
risk of life, or for the faithless mountaineer
who leaves samara Maremma without a sigh
or a backward look, or than, more tragic and
more terrible still, that tale of Pia Tolomei,

whose despair lias echoed through so many
centuries, and whose history still often makes
the theme of their song to the mariners and
the marsh labourers of the Orbetellano, of
Massa Maritime, and of the Patrimony of
S. Peter, as the lower part of the province is
still called.

But when she santos love and all its
sorrows, she knew nothings of the meaning? of
the words ; and she liked better songs of
war and death. When she sang

Vorticella celia pcrso la campagna
Di giorno e note va melanconesca,

she did not understand why any one should
grieve to be alone ; when she sang

Come volet fascia che noir pianga
Spend che da voi devon partie ?
E tu, bello, in Maremma, ed ion montagne,
Quest partenza mi sara morirc,

it seemed to her but ]poor and feeble nonsense.
And yet her voice gave interest
passion and longing to the words ; and when
she sang

Andai a bere alia fonte d'Amorc,

Joconda shook her head and thought with
wistful pain, —

Ah, you will drink indeed, one day ;
drink so deep that you will drown ! '

Joconda was always anxious and troubled
lest anyhow she had missed the way, and
done less than she might in the fulfilling
of Saturnino's trust. The man was but a
galley-slave, a thief, a murderer ; but
Joconda was faithful to him as though he
had been a king.

She was always anxious. The Mastarna,
of whom there were none living save this
child and the galley-slave, had all died by
violent deaths, the deaths of hunters, of
smugglers, or of brigands ; of Serapia's
people she knew nothing, but report had
spoken of that dead woman as of a beautiful
light voluptuous fool. From both sides
there was dangerous heritage — dark precedent.
The old woman, v/ith her tender
conscience and her upright soul, was always
harassed with fear.

Musa had a great skill at rhythmical improvisations.


Silent at other times, with a silence that
was in strong contrast with the loquacity of
those around her, she would at times, when
the fit fell on her., recite in the terza rima or
the more difficult octavo, poems of her own

on every theme wliicli came before her eye :
poems that the next hour she forgot as utterly
as the nightingale for<]^ets no doubt the trills
that he sets rippling through the night under
the myrtle and the bay leaves. It is not an
uncommon gift ; in country places where the
dreary levelling parrot-learning of the towns
has not touched and destroyed the natural
original powers of the people, this trick of
musical language, of words that burn, and
paint their pictures with fire of passionate
and just recital, still refreshes and adorns the
life of the labourer of the corn lands and the
fishing villages and the old grey farm-houses,
set high on a ledge of Cai-rara or Sabine
hills and the fragrant orange thickets, and
the sombre calm woods of Sardinia or
Apulia. Where the Italian has not been
dulled, stiffened, corroded, debased by the
levelling and impoverishing influences of
modern civilisation, there is he always
classic, eloquent, ardent, graceful in body
and mind ; there is he still half a Greek, and
wholly a sylvan creature.

Musa, with her old mandoline with its
ivory keys across her knee, and her brown
hand every now and then calling the sleeping
music from its strings, had moments of

inspiration like any pythoness of old, and at
such times lier eyes flashed, her lips grew
eloquent, her colour came and went, her
voice rose in cadence that stirred the sluggish
sickly souls around her with joy and with
terror. All the fire and the force that were
in her blood came out of prison in those recitations,
and, listening to her, Joconda thought,
with a shudder, ' that is Saturnino who speaks
so, of love, and hate, and war, and death ! '

A thousand memories that were not of
her life, yet seemed of her remembrance,
thronged on the child at such hours. She
seemed to hear the clash of arms, the roll of
artillery, the shrieks of slaughtered children,
the hiss of the hot blood pouring out as the
cold steel plunged in through flesh and sinew ;
strife, combat, violence, fierce courage,
ghastly death, all seemed familiar to her, and
she sang of them as Tasso sang of strife
before Jerusalem that never his eyes looked
on in life. Higher and higher, stronger and
stronger, her voice would rise as the rhyme
rushed from her lips, and the lute under her
fingers would scream and sob like a suffering
thing, and a i?reat fear would come over all
her listeners; and when, all suddenly, she
stopped, pale, breathless, with dilated eyes —

the eyes of those Who see what is not upon
the earth — the neighbours wouki steal away
alarmed and yet entranced, and Joconda
Avould cross herself and think : 'All the dead
that her father slew seem to cry out to her.'

It was not very often that she could be
induced to take up the mandoline, or show
this power to others ; but song and narrative
flavour l\\Q daily bread of all households of
the south, like the onion, or the melon ; and
even in these languid, naked, fever-haunted
shores there was always some knot of tired
seamen, of weary women, to gather in the
shade of a wall, or under the luck of a
stranded boat, and beguile the time with
rossetti and recitative.

Such as these would coax lier, or bribe
her with some carnation flower, or some
nautilus shell, to come amongst them, and
conjure up, to thrill their sluggish veins,
some tragedy of sea or land, some vision of
love or death. So she san? of thin<]js she
knew not, and in the sultry evenings, when
the skies were livid and seemed hard as
metal, and the sea swayed heavily under the
heat like a flood of molten lead, the drought
and the drouth and the shivering sickness
and the parched poisonous land were all

forgotten as they hearkened to that voice of
hers which seemed, even as the nightingales'
voices do when many of them sing together,
to be like the sound of silver cymbals smiting
one another.

Joconda discouraged and disliked this
power of improvisation, this inborn melody.

Who knows where it may lead her one
day,' she thought ; ' and if she bcGame one
of those singing women Who give their throats
for gold, and show themselves half stripped
upon the stage of the world, then had I
better have left her to be eaten by the rats
under the pine-trees of her father's lair.'

For Joconda was a Puritan at heart,
having in her by her mother the Waldensian
blood ; and she did her best to discourage
the gifts of voice in Saturnino's child. But
nature is stronger than counsel, and Musa
rhymed and sang. Knowing nothing of the
metrical laws that govern the s jennet, she yet
imitated these so well that she strung many
a sonnet like a row of pearls ; only never
hardly could she keep the text unchanged,
her fancy varied, and her spoken poems
varied also as the quail's call varies, when
he cries across the waving grass to his mate.

Sing the same as yesterday,' her neighbours

sometimes would say to her ; and she
would answer : ' Can you call yesterday's
wind back, or the clouds of last night,
can you gather them together this morning ?
I can only sing what comes to me.'

Under other influences it would have
become genius, this facile power of stirring
the brains and hearts of others with sound ;
but here it remained only a gift of verse
as many had, though fresher and more
eloquent than most. There was no food
for it, except a strophe of the ' Jerusalem
Liberate,' a story from the * Furioso,'
or the 'Morgan Maggiore,' passed from
mouth to mouth of the people.

Once she found in a drawer a torn and
yellow transcript of the sonnets of Petrarch,
copied in a crabbed hand by some poor
scholar of the past century ; it was the
dearest treasure that she had ; it was her
only book. She read with trouble and slowly
at the best of times ; but by degrees she
learned these sonnets all by heart through
dint of going over them so often, and the
stained rough yellow leaves were sacred to
her as the Holy Grail to a knight. She knew
nothing as to who Petrarca had been, nothing
of Vaucluse, or of the entry into Pome ; but

VOL. I. M

lie loved those ' liquid numbers ' with all
her soul, and in her thoughts he was vaguely-blended
with the dead hero of the tomb.

So she dreamed the hours away, whilst
her bodily strength laboured at the crank of
the watershed, at the mounds of seaweed,
at the sickle, with which she cut the wild
oats for the mule, at the heavy sails which
she dra^cred over the sands for Joconda to
mend. So she never saw the lads who came
with the coasters, and who would fain have
had play or flattery with her in the evening-time,
when the tarred ropes lay idle over the
sea-wall, and their tartars anchored in the
weed-choked, sand-filled bay ; and they
grew angry, and hooted after her, ' Masons
! ' and turned their thoughts to Mariannina,
the pilot Giano's daughter, who had
yellow hair, and red-brown eyes, and was
esteemed a beauty, and kept her pink and
white skin safe by going up out of the heat
every summer to the house of an aunt dio
lived high on the Valerian hills, although
Giano's daughter at her best was, beside the
lustrous colour of Musa's beauty, as a pale
aster in September's sun is beside the glow
of the autumnal rose.

But Giano's daughter, Mariannina, smiled

and listened and flirted, and had a merry
word and a bashful blush for each of them ;
and in Musa they found a restive, silent,
scorned creature ; for what do young sailors,
or landsmen either, want with a girl who only
sees Laura's dead lover, and has no ej^es at
all for them and th^irfesta bravery ?

Throughout Maremma, where love plays
fast and loose, and the sower of the corn
is seldom the reaper of it, and the hunter of
one autumn is rarely the same as another
in Maremma, where the passions are lava
and*the faith is thistle-down, — the boldest
and the lightest Avould never have dared an
amorous word to the Musoncella.

There was a straight, far-away look in her
great blue-black eyes, and a curve on lier
red hips that would have scared them, even
had any of those passers-by had time to tarry
and see what a rare and strange flower was
growing up in the stone', reedy sands of the
dreary world-forgotten place. And besides,
there was Joconda, who always banged the
door with scant ceremony, or grumbled a
morose good-morrow, if she saw any human
beings looking twice at the child whom she
had called after Mary the Penitent Joconda
was always afraid for the future.

31 -1

There was the galley-shive on Gorgonaa,
and there was the wild blood m the storm-bud.
The only good, she thought, she could
wish for the daughter of Saturnino Alas to live
without sin in this desolate spot, unseen, unknown,
with little more soul in her than
there was in the stout shore thistle, that
neither sands nor sea could swamp.

So, the saints will pluck her to themselves
at last,' thought Joconda ; and the
dreariness, the lovelessness, the hopelessness of
such an existence did not occur to her, because
age, which has learned the solace and
sweetness of peace, never remembers that to
youth peace seems only stagnation, inanition,
death.

The exhausted swimmer, reaching the
land, falls prone on it, and blesses it ; but the
out-going swimmer, full of strength, spurns
the land, and only loves the high crested
wave, the abyss of the deep sea.

There were seventy-one years between
the souls of Joconda and the child who slept
in her bed, sat at her board, and knelt
before her cross. They were too many for
sympathy to bridge them, and though she
loved the child, behind the love was always
fear ; the human fear of the tiger's cub.

Meanwhile Andreino, who was a shrewd
and sagacious person, lead other schemes
for her future ; he liked the child, and he
liked still better the thought of the good store
of gold and silver pieces that rumour assigned
to the woman of Savoy. He had a rickety,
ague-shaking little great-grandson of eighteen,
with a pretty, sickly face, who lived
with his father at a wineshop in a little sea-town
in Apulia. ' Why not get the girl for
the lad,' he thought.

And they could live with me,' mused
this disinterested old man ; ' and she is
stronger than many a boy, and loves steering
and rowing, and would go out to the
night-fishing like any man among them.
It would be but kind to speak of it to
Joconda.'

So he went and spoke of it with his
pipe in his mouth one day that Joconda
was sitting in the shade of her house wall
mending a sail, for she was never idle.
Joconda gave him few words in answer.

One does not mate a trailing weed with
a young oak,' she said with calm contempt,
having well in her mind's eye Andreino's
sickly and shaking descendant ; and though
he talked his best for the chief part of two

hours, he did not come any nearer towards
chancing; her convictions.

She is a crafty, crabbed soul,' thought
her neighbour. ' Maybe she has some one
in Savoy '

At that moment Musa came in sight.

We were talking of marriage for you,'
said Andreino with a grim smile, as she
drew near them.

Musa looked at him a little perplexedly
under her straight brows, then her grave
face laughed.

Marriage ! I know what that is : it is
for the woman to stay at home and spin
while the man is at sea, and to go out and
rake wood and salt while he is drinking at
the wine shop. That is what it is ; it is not
for me.'

The old fisherman laughed.

It is not only that. There are '

Hold your tongue, Andreino,' said
Joconda. ' It is oftener only that or worse.
The child need not think of it for many a
day.'

Men will think of it,' said the old sailor,
and you have a pretty penny, and it would
be well to find a decent lad.'

When I show the penny the lads will

come like flies to wine, never fear,' said
Joconda grimly. ' The child has no such
thoughts. Let lier be.'

Andreino went away grumbling. He
liked to act the part of the padrone d' amove,
though the sickly and scant population of the
coast gave him little scope for the taste, and
he had thought to taunt and tease the woman
of Savoy into proving to him how many of
those pretty amoris, good solid coins, were
in the pitcher under the hearth, or the
bucket sunk at the bottom of the well, or the
hole in the brick behind the mule's manner,
or wherever it might be that the savings of
her long life were kept.

Joconda, left alone with the girl, looked
at lier a little wistfully.

Child, you are handsome,' she said at
last. ' Tliat old cracked chatterer said true.
Some one may want to marry you.'

Yes,' said Musa, indifferently.

Though there is not a soul here, still
sometimes they come — Lucchese, Pistoiese,
Avhat not — they come as they go ; they area
faithless lot ; they love all winter, and
while the corn is in the ear it goes well, but
after harvest — phew ! — they put their gains in
their pockets and they are off and away back

to their mountains. There are broken hearts
in Maremma when the threshing is done.'

Yes,' said Musa again.

It was nothing to her, and she heeded
but little.

Yes, because men speak too lightly and
women hearken too quickly ; that is how
the mischief is born. With the autumn
the mountaineers come. They are strong
and bold ; they are ruddy and brown ; they
work all day, but in the long nights they
dance and they sing ; then the girl listens.
She thinks it is all true, though it has all
been said before in his own hills to other
ears. The winter nights are long, and
the devil is always near ; when the corn
goes down and the heat is come there is
another sad soul the more, another burden
to carry, and he — he goes back to the mountains.
What does he care ? Only when he
comes down into the plains again he goes to
another place to work, because men do not
love women's tears. That is how it goes in
Maremma.'

Yes,' said Musa for a third time.

Child, do not let a man touch you till
you have had the blessing of Church upon
you. Remember that, Whilst I am here,

if a man come, it will be the worse for him
if he come not honestly. I am tough still.
But when I am i?one there will be no one, for
Andreino is but a gawky gossip full of tales.
Promise me that ; let no man touch you
till the Church has blessed you. Promise
that.'

Musa at last was astonished and startled.
A warmth of blood came over the delicate
brown of her face and throat.

I promise,' she said quickly. ' But I
do not see any men ; I do not want them.'

Some one will come,' muttered Joconda.
' Some one always comes. Swear
me that by the image you wear.'

The child kissed the gold Madonna
that hung about her throat, and said, ' I
swear it — but a promise is the same.'

With you I think it is,' said Joconda.
But, Lord, what are you yet ? A bird not
out of nest — a bud all folded up. You do
not know what you will be in a year or two.
And now that you have sworn you will
remember.'

I will remember,' said Musa.

Joconda was silent, recollecting, as she
twirled her flax, on what the Maremma had
always said of Saturnino — that he was true

to a plighted word through good and ill,
and when he swore on his Madonnina abode
by his oath, whether it were for bloodguiltiness
or for the sparing of blood.

She is Saturnino's own child,' thought
Jocund. She was his child. To the mind
of Joconda that one fact made this calm
young life seem like a fair garden outspread
on a volcano's side. There were the budding
lilies indeed, and the half-shut roses,
but there was the lava stream beneath them
that any day might rise in fire.

If only I could be always here,' she
thought, poor soul, fancying that she would
find some force to staj^ the lava with the
uplifted crucifix. But she knew she could
not be always here ; she was eighty six years
old this brilliant day of San Zenone, when
the light and the fragrance of spring were
beautiful, even in cursed Maremma.

When Musa was asleep that night and
all the little place was still, Joconda, behind
her barred shutters and bolted doors, by the
light of her lantern looked at her little
hoard, which was kept under a stone in the
paved floor of her kitchen.

She counted it. It was but little, though
the fancy of Santa Tarsilla made it much.

Fortunes are not made by weaving hemp
and mending sails.

There were some score of gold Grand
Ducal coins, and some handfuls of Papal
silver ones ; that was all. Before the child
had come to her she had thought the money
would do to bury her, and buy some masses
for her soul. Now the child was there she
said to herself, ' my soul can do well enough
without masses ; she must have it all;' and
caused to be scrawled in Grosseto, by a friend,
on a scrap of stamped paper to make it good,
these words of formal bequest : —

All this is for the child Maria Penitentee,
whom they call Musa or the Musoncella,
and the parish may bury my body, and my
soul will be with God, who will do what
lie likes v/itli it. Deus plaudit nose

This, which had been written at her own
dictation, she wrapped carefully round the
money, and with a sigh replaced it in the
hole, and set the stone down over it. It
was but little to be the only plank between a
girl, and hunger, and thirst, and homelessness,
and shame.

Yet over the face of Joconda a grim
smile fluttered as she put out her lantern.
Andreino thinks I have a pretty penny,'

she thought ; ' and he would like to sell me
his rickety great-grandson that shakes with
ague like a jelly-fish in a lobster-pot ! '

The smile faded as she laid herself
down to sleep ; she knew all the niggardly
self-seeking ways of the people, and had
diverted herself with them through all the
silent years of her life on these shores ; but
they were sorry neighbours to whom to leave
a solitary child for care and for mercy.

Well, the good God will be with her,'
sighed Joconda in the formula of her faith.
But she was a woman whom a formula
could but half console.

Deity at his best was very far away, and
always silent.

She would gladly have had those pieces
milder the pavement more by a hundredfold.

She glanced wistfully at the figure of
the girl ere she ]put out her light, as Musa lay
on the rough bed scarcely covered, with
her slender straight round limbs glistening
like some golden-hued marble, and her head
hung downward in deep rest, as a flower
hangs when full of dew.

She thought once of her own people, but
she knew nothing about them. More than
sixty years had gone by since she had comedown

the mountain paths out of the mist,
and said farewell to the great snow-peaks,
the forests of pine, the green glacier waters
tumbling through the ravine. She lead
never seen them since, nor any of her kindred.
Letters had come once, now and then,
in two or three years' time, but that Alas
long ago, long ago ; i^he had had but two
brothers, and they had forgotten her, when
once she was married, and far away over the
southern sea.

It was of no use to think of them.

Never hearken to the voice of a man
that bears you away,' she would say to the
unconscious child, as her memories drifted
to that time, so long ago, when she had left
her Alps for her lover's shores. He had
been a true lover, indeed, that dark eyed
Marennnano, but he had perished before her
eves, and his bent had come in on the surf
keel upward, and all the widow's jointure
he had left her had been sorrow and disease
and barren years, dry from grief as the
shores were dry with the sand-bearing
scirocco. If she had never known him, she
would no doubt have lived and died amidst
the peace and plenty of those Alpine farms.

'Love is a cruel thing,' she thought;

and the next day she brought out their few
scant letters, of which the latest was thirty
years old, and bade Musa read them aloud
to her.

The child read them with some difficulty
; they were short and grave, such
letters as busy farmers would write on a
winter's night when the chalet was blocked
in snow, and their mountain side seemed
severed by a wall of ice from all the world.
Joconda listened, and said never a word.
Her heart was fulL Herself, she could not
read, but she looked at the signatures, Anton
Sanctis, Joachim Sanctis ; and it seemed once
more as though she were fifteen years old,
and her brothers were breastins^ the face of
the rocks and calling to her where she
stood above, with the red and white cow
Dorothea. She had never spoken of her
youth to the child before. She spoke now,
in few words, but tenderly.

Musa, with the old faded yellow ill-writ
letters lying on her knee, sat in the
sultry pestilential mists of a summer day in
Maremma, and heard of that land of coolness,
of rest, of forest stillness, of glacier
solitude. It seemed strange to her, and
very wonderful,

Are they all dead, do you think ? ' she
said, sharing Joconda's vague anxiety.

'Ay, for sure, they are all dead,' said
Joconda. with a smothered si^^h ; and in the
dust, in the glare, in the furnace-blast of
the scirocco that is like a curse from the
mouth of a fever-stricken man, she told her
beads and muttered to herself :

Dear heaven ! for the feel of the snow
in the air, for the smell of the great pine
woods in the wind — what I would give,
Avhat I would give ! But I have nothing to
give ; I am old and a fool ; and they are
dead, my brothers

To be sure they were dead ; dead many
a year, no doubt, with the cross set at their
headstones, about the little chapel under the
crest of the mountain ; the little chapel
that she remembered so well, lying so high
that the clouds bathed it, and the snow
scarce melted till June. And she would
herself lie here in the sand and the sun.

During this hot summer season the
thought of them, her two only brothers,
grew stronger and stronger upon her ; and
as she drove one day into Grosseto, the
remembrance grew so vivid that she went
to a scrivener and said to him —

Write me a long letter and a good
one, and word for word as I tell it you ;
and write it so that it can go over the sea
and the hills without harm ; and when it is
written address it clearly and in a bold hand
to Anton and Joachim Sanctis, above the
Yah de Cogne, in the kingdom of Savoy.'

As she dictated so the scrivener wrote,
and with her own hand Joconda dropped
the letter into the bag of the post, as it
went out of Grosseto that evening time at
sunset.

Anton and Joachim, if alive, would be
very old men, for they had been older than
she by some years, but that scarcely occurred
to her. She always saw them as she had seen
them last, bold mountaineers and farmers,
stalwart and handsome, angry at her wedding
With the Italian from over the seas,
and bidding her and him a reluctant and
sullen God-speed" as the mules jolted down
the steep ways into the valley, and the
glaciers of Grandson and Money and the
peak of the beautified Agricola were lost forever
to her sight.

•• Ay, I had better have stayed there,'
she thought, with a wistful sigh, as she
dropped her letter in the post and made

her way through the pale dusty haze of a
summer twilight in sickly Grosseto.

The memories of the mountain winds, the
deep still Avoids, the crystal clearness of the
cold bright air, the forest silence on those
heights where the sole visitants were the cackle
and the vulture, came back upon her mind
amidst the heat, the dust, the heaviness, the
nauseousness of the atmosphere of the seashore
in Maremma.

Surely I am near my end,' she thought,
knowing that when the thoughts of youth
return fresh as the scent of new-gathered
blossoms to the tired old age which has so
long forgot them, the coming of Death is
seldom very distant ; and she jolted home
behind the mule, falling asleep at intervals
while the beast took his homeward course
unerringly, and when she awoke with a
start and saw the level and mournful plains
around her, she did not for the moment
understand, and began to call Rosa, and
Nix, and Dorothea, the cows that she had
had at pasture on the Alps when she had
been some fifteen summers old !

Lord, their bones lie bleaching fifty
years ! ' she said to herself, knowing her
own folly ; yet she could see them all ; the

VOL. I. N

dun, the black, the pretty red and white,
thrusting their noses through the his Alpine
grass, and lowing their welcome to her
through the Alpine mists of morning.
When one leaves one's cradle-land one does
ill,' she thought wearily, as the sea gleamed
in her sight, pale, smooth, ghastly, in the
light of the moon ; the bottomless grave
that held her dead.

Each day after that lie began wistfully
to hope that she might hear something from
Savoy. The postman came over the plains
and along the shores very irregularly to
Santa Tarsilla. If it were not the soldiers
or the priest who had a letter, no one else
ever saw such a thing save once, when
Andreino had been known to have one announcing
the death of a son of his, who
kept a wine-shop far up the Elvira, where
the orange, and the lemon, and the fragrant
olive grow together by the edge of the sea.
Joconda began to look wistfully for the
dusty jaded figure of the tired j906'^i?zo
coming across the sand, but she looked in
vain.

The weeks came and went ; the drought
became greater ; the plain grew yellower
and the sky greyer ; the air was like a



furnace, and over the water there honor
always a livid fog of heat. But she got no
answer.

No doubt they are dead,' she thought,
and felt the sadder and the longer fox the
thought.

N 2

*EANWHILE, for sympathy Missa
went elsewhere. She turned to
those who had been dead three
thousand years if one.
She had never spoken of her discovery ;
the secret was sacred to her and SAveet ; she
loved the moors and the city of the dead
that was beneath them. All the leisure that
she had she spent there. With the help of
Andreino she had made, at last, for herself
a rough little boat out of drift-timbers lying
about, and she rowed herself hither and
thither in it : it was not very seaworthy,
but that had no terrors for her ; she could
swim like a fish. She visited her Etruscan
burial-place with each fast-day that came
round, when the crisp snow of December
made the marsh ice and the world white.

as when the suns of August sucked up the
venom from the emerald soaking swamp.

She found the other spacious chambers
connected with the first grave ; tombs Avitli
stone biers around the walls, and the same
strange fantastic paintings on the wall, and'
many earthenware cups and trays, and some
lamps and goblets of gold. These last had
not been oxidized as the first that she had
seen, and therefore did not vanish at her
touch ; no doubt because, though she could
see no ray of light into these inner chambers,
some air had always come, for the dead were
not there, not even their bones and ashes ;
these had long ago gone forth on the
breath of the wind, as her warrior king had
done.

To any scholar, or even to a traveller
scholarly, these tombs would have seemed
capable enough of simple explanation ; but
to her they were as an enchanted city, asa
world apart, as a thing given to herself
from some unseen power that set the planets
rolling, and made the storm arise and sweep
bare the sea.

When the bare cold rocks blocked her
passage, she felt very sure that beyond it,
though she might not behold further, were

all the oilier kingdoms of the dead, all the
hosts over whom the whig, who had vanished
in the light of the stars, once had reigned.

The upper world, that bore the oaks and
the grain, the honeysuckle and the holy-thorn,
became almost nothing to her ; it was
but as a mere crust above the true world, the
world where the dead in their millions slept

and awaited— what? she did not know,

but she felt she would .wish to wait with
them for ever, rather than be one in that
sordid, sickly, little living world she knew,
with its greed over a haul of fish, its savage
quarrels over a copper-piece, its worry, its
weariness, its wailing, its beds of sickness,
and its hearts of stone.

To whosoever dwells in an ideal world the
world of men and women seems but a poor
thing; and Musa began to dwell in one —
she, whose father had seen no beauty save
in a scarlet lip, a narrow poignard, a sack
of gold, a pool of blood.

The little that Joconda had said of the
nation of dead, instead of allaying the fever
of her fiincy, inflamed it.

'Do they tell of these dead people in
books?' she asked Joconda once, who
answered :

Aye ; all lies come out of books, I
believe, and some truth too, they say. For
my part, a book was always a thing I
thought best put in the priest's hands, and
left there.'

Musa grew diligent in her endeavours to
read well and rapidly. But nothing did she
find of the dead people. All that she had
to read in were stories of the saints, and the
proclamations about taxes and other annoyances
that were posted up on the piers of
Santa Tarsilla.

Who has got books ? ' she wondered.

Xo one at all in her world.

She went back to the world of the dead,
and imagined all that she would have liked
to find in the books. Imagination without
culture is crippled and moves slowly ; but
it can be pure imagination, and rich also, as
folk-lore will tell the earnest.

There was that in the silence, the solitude,
and the sense of ownership which made the
subterranean sepulchres beautiful and beloved
to the child ; if any other had broken in on
them, their spell would have been weakened ;
she grew familiar with the strange dancers
on the walls, the strange creatures, and
flowers, and symbols ; she found ornaments

on the floors and on the stone biers, but she
only looked at them reverently ; everything
was only waiting : the dead people would
come back.

The grey shadows of these chambers
grew dearer to her than the light of spring
or summer in the thickets or on the sea.
Their intense stillness seemed sweeter than
even the sound of the waves she had so
well loved. She returned to her home
with sorrow ; there were the jar of shrill
voices, the hissing of oil in frying-pans, the
cry of hurt animals, the rattle of copper
vessels, the babble of sickly women.

An Italian village is never lovely.

There is always so much dust, so much
dirt ; there is so much stink of oil and
sickly smell of silkworms ; the dogs and
cats and the fowls and mules look hungry
and scared. The children play in mud or
sand with some live thing they torture ; even
amidst the hills or beside the pastures they
are always marring the beauty of the
country thus. By the palsied shores of the
Maremma this squalor, this cruelty, this unloveliness,
were a thousandfold more painful.

When she went back to them from the
silence and solemnity of the Etruscan moorlands

they hurt her with a sudden sense of
their unfitness and their hatefuhiess.

It is better with the dead,' she thought,
when she went reluctantly home to the low-lying
shore when the flat roofs of Santa
Tarsilla were white and black under the
moon.

When a certain Etruscan tomb was
broken open in Italy, and one of those necklaces
of fine gold that no known work can
surpass for skill was found in the grave,
a duchess, still living, put the dead woman's
ornament on her own throat, and danced in
it on that night.

Musa never so offended the dust. She
would as soon have rifled the Madonna's
altar as have touched their jewels.

She let all the gold and the earthenware
lie or stand where she had found it, where
the mourners had placed it when the bones
had been laid there ; and although in one of
the empty biers there were golden chains and
golden grasshoppers, and a girdle of gold such
as might well tempt a girl to put them above
her linen bodice and about her woollen
kirtle, she let them lie — she whose father had
snatched gold wherever he saw it.

She spent many an hour in loneliness,

sitting in the twilight of the tombs, studying
the figures on the walls till they seemed
alive to her, and thinking, not clearly, but
dreamily ; as the ox thinks in the meadow-heats
of noon, as the deer thinks, and the
dog, and the great eagle, when he sways on
an oak-bough, and looks down through ten
fathom deep of azure air and mist of sunbeam
in the gorse below.

The summer was very hot and full of
mist and of disease as summer on those
shores is always ; the moorland grew full
of dangerous gases, the broad oak foliage
sicklied and looked parched; the sea was
grey and hazy with the horrible haze of
heat; pestilential vapours rose in steam from
the marshes ; clouds hung on the windless
air that were clouds, not of rain, but of
mosquitoes ; all animal life grew feeble,
languid and inert ; the time was come for
the curse of Maremma, the midsummer
that elsewhere is the year's crown of rejoicing.


In this oppressive weather, when the
heavens looked a vault of copper, and the
sea a breathless noxious oily plain, and all
the marshes and the moors were as though a
destroying wind of fire had passed over and

scorched them brown, Miisa, all by herself,
still sought the shadow and the shelter of that
tomb whose secret was only known to her.

She was never afraid ; she was always
watching, watching for the dead to arise or
to return. The intense silence did not
appal her ; the intense solitude there, underneath
the soil, all alone in that vault of
sandstone, with the bones strewn on the
beds of rock, had no terrors for her. These
dead were like her people.

She was afraid lest any one should come
to share their secret with her.

The moor was very lonely ; far off, now
and then, the figure of a shepherd, satyr-like
and clad in goatskin, would loom black
against the orange of the sunset sky ; and
she would watch him angrily and suspiciously
lest he should bring his flocks to crop
too near the mouth of the tombs, and learn
their existence and rob her of their solitude.
But no one disturbed her. The herds of buffaloes
tramped by, snorting and bellowing as
the gnats stung them, and the flies fastened
in their flesh ; the wild boars would come
too, seeking roots in the cracked dry ground,
and thrusting: their snouts amidst the saw-grass.


These were the only visitants that she
had, except the frogs that croaked on the
stagnant mud of the steaming pools, and all
the feathered tribe of smiler singers, that
were mute under the burden of the windless
weather, and sat dull and gasping in the
caroba boughs.

One day at early morning, going there,
she saw for the first time a human being
amidst the maidenhair and the fetches about
the orifice of the warrior's tomb. She saw
him with displeasure and fear. Yet he was
only a young goatherd about ten years of
age, whose goats were all about him, cropping
the herbage ; grey, and black, and
wlnte, wise-looking, bright-eyed, creatures,
half beast, half fawn, as all goats are, always
looking as though they had strayed from
Hymettus or from Tempe.

He was a pretty brown boy, a mountain
and moorland boy, half-naked, and
playing with his reed pipe, like a true son
of Pan.

Who are you ? ' she said angrily ; for
she felt that the moor was her own.

He laughed.

I am Zefferino ; they call me Zirlo. I
know you. You are the girl they call

Miisoncella and the Yclia down in Santa
Tarsilla.'

What if they do? Either is as good a
name as Zirlo. Why do they call you Zirlo? '

Because I sing ! ' ^

Who does not sing ? That is nothing.
Why do you bring your goats here ? '

Why not here ? The moor and the
marsh are free. It is hot, but there was no
grass on the mountain so I came ; I Ive ina
hut on this moor in winter. I have not
been down here since Pasqua.'

Musa was silent. She knew that it was
true ; the land was free.

'Do you hive far off? ' she asked.

Up there,' he said ; and pointed vaguely
across the ]plain.

What do they call it, where you live? '

San Lionardo. It is over there.'

He pointed again across to where the
red sullen haze of the heat overhung the
inland moors, wdierc they swelled upward
and met the first spurs of the mountains.

Musa stood and looked ; he was close
by the aperture of the tombs, which she had
carefully covered with stones and dead
branches ; he was lying on his back, with

Zirlo means the whistling of the thrush.

this reed-pipe in his half open hand ; he had
a lovely, dusky, innocent face.

Why do you mind my being here ? '
he said, good-humouredly. ' It is all so dry ;
my poor goats have had scarcely a mouthful
all the week; just here it is a little
better, because there is so much water.
Why do you mind ? '

I like to be alone.'

Ah, yes, you are the Musoncella. But
it is not good to be alone. I never am,
because I have the goats. I have heard say
you are wicked. Are you wicked ? '

I do not know.'

They say you strike people .^ '

Sometimes.'

Zirlo raised himself, a little in apprehension.


Why do you strike them ? '

Only if they make me angry.'

You are angry now. I will take the
goats away.'

Musa's eyes shone ; then she relented.
He was afraid of her, so he disarmed her.

I do not want to hurt you. Let the
goats feed,' she said. She said it as a
princess might have done, giving them leave
to crop the roses of a palace garden.

Though she was Hke a young dryad, and
he like a little fiiun, they were but children
after alL The childhood in them lead its
affinity and its attraction.

It was early in the day ; a burning
day in the most cruel month of the
southern year, when even the red of the
rosebud seems pale with heat, and even the
goU of the sunflower wanes and rusts ; when
the birds are silent everywhere, and the
grass looks like the sand of a desert, and
even the deep still hours of midnight are
stifling and without air, and the cloudless
heavens are as a furnace of brass.

There was a broad ilex-oak here, and
the boy was in the shelter of its shade, and
the goats too. Musa sat down beside them.
She had some black bread and a flask of
water; he had the same. They ate and
drank as two children might have done on
the slopes of the Sicilian hills when Theocritus
was shepherd there.

The boy was timid and yet attracted ;
she was displeased, and yet cid not wish
to be unkind. The great heat was around
them and above them, like a sea of hot
vapour ; there seemed no hues anywlicrc
that were not either grey or yellow ; it

looked as though dull sinking fires were
burning on the horizon all around in a rinej
of flame ; it was always so every morning
and every evening while the sun was passing
through the sign of Leo.

Musa sat and thought, How could she
descend to her refuge without this lad learning
the secret of it ? As for him, he had
taken his pipe, and was playing on it those
melodious, carolling, tender little lays Which
had earned him his name from the people
of the little mountain hamlet where he
lived.

Musa, while she pondered, on her own
thoughts intent, lifted her voice and sang ;
Zirlo sang too. The clear voices burst over
the silence of the songless moor, and floated
away over the silence of the buried tombs.
Pan might have listened with joy had not
Christ killed him.

When their voices were tired of leaping
and falling, and piercing with sweet sound
the drowsy heaviness of the atmosphere,
they drank the water of their flasks and ate
of their black crusts ; the ilex leaves, black
and grey against the yellow sunshine,
drooping above their heads, stirred by
any breeze.

Suddenly the grazing goats stopped
browsing and beij^an to bleat uneasily, standing
with their heads seaward.

There will be a storm,' said ZefTerino.
We cannot see it coming, but they can.'

If I were out at sea, I should know,'
said Musa. She was not so familiar with
the portents of the land.

In less than ten minutes the storm broke,
sudden, violent, terrible as only a rainless
storm can be. The sky was a sheet of
lightning ; the wind rose in fury ; the
thunder pealed as if heaven and earth were
meeting ; clouds of dust were driven before
the wind over the moor ; and herds of
buffaloes with their horns sloped downward,
rushed, like a whirlwind themselves,
over the ground towards the shelter of the
thickets.

The goats massed together, with stern
outward, resisted the force of the hurricane
as best they could, trembling and staggering
as the wind struck them like a scourge.
Musa, who stood erect, though she was
shaken like a young tree, seized the boy, who
had fallen prone upon his face.

Get up ; bring the beasts into shelter
or they will perish !' she cried to him as slice
VOL. I. o

grasped him by his shirt of goatskin and
plucked him from the ground.

Shelter ! There is no shelter for leagues
round ! ' he screamed, and strove to cast himself
again upon his face.

Lie dragged him up by sheer superior
strength.

There is shelter,' she said. ' Follow me,
and make the flock follow you.'

Deafened and blinded by the hurricane
and the dust-storm, she managed to keep her
feet, and reach the aperture that she had
covered ; she tore away the brambles and
boughs till the stone steps were laid bare ;
then by force of will and force of limb
together dragged the little shepherd down
with her whilst she called his beasts. More
sagacious than he, with a headlong rush the
goats descended into the refuge, while the
storm which for one instant had lulled broke
out afi esh with increased violence.

Musa, with the goats around her, stood
in the warrior's tomb. Zefferino was trembling
and white with terror ; he had fallen
on his knees.

Oh, you coward !' she cried, with boundless
scorn ; she, the daughter of Saturnino,
had no fear in her.

Zirlo did not hear ; lie was so aghast at
his OAvn plight that he was scarcely sensible.
Above head the tempest was pealing with
awfid fury ; the echoes of the thunder pealed
through the hollowed rocks ; but the tomb
was a safe shelter, the goats gathered themselves
together against the bed of the
vanished king, and were no more afraid :
they bleated gently, that was all.

They say their prayers,' said Musa.
Say yours if you are so timid

Zirlo beu'an to murmur words that he
had been taught to say at mass.

Musa stood and looked at him in the
semi-darkness, with pity and contempt.

What would you do on the sea,' she
said, ' when there is a storm ? There are
fifty every summer.'

I was not frightened when I was on my
face,' whispered Zefferino trembling. 'But
this place, this dark cold place — where am
I ? And your eyes blaze so ; you frighten
me more.'

Do my eyes blaze P ' said Musa, who
was pleased to hear it. ' If they do, it is
because you are such a coward. Zirlo do
they call you ? A thrush wT)idd Jive
more sense. This is mine, mine, do you



hear, this place, and you must never speak

of it;

Zirlo stared at her in the twilight.

Yours ? ' he said, wonderingly.

Mine, because I found it,' said Musa,
and, added under her breath, ' Of course, it
is theirs.'

'It is a cave,' said Zirlo, as his eyes
wandered over the vault and the walls.

It is a tomb,' said Musa.

The boy shuddered.

You say that to frighten me. There is
never a tomb made like this. A little hole
in the earth, and a wooden box pushed in —
that is what they call a tomb. I know, for
they buried my mother last year.'

You have no mother ? '

'No.'

I too have none.'

The common misfortune drew them
together a little nearer ; Zirlo's eyes filled
with tears ; Musa stood grave and absorbed ;
he knew all he lost ; she could only imagine
it. The storm still beat above ground ;
they could hear the breaking of boughs,
the rushing of winds, the scampering hoofs
of terrified animals running hither and
thither.

If it would only rain,' said the boy
listening.

It will not rain,' said Miisa. ' It will
not rain for a month, perhaps not then ; the
fishermen said so this morning.'

There is something awful and. weird in a
rainless storm, that seems unnatural, and is
more deadly far to vegetation than the
storms that drench and flood the land.
When they are passed they leave a benison
behind them, at least to all the sylva and
the flora, in the freshened soil, the deepened
streams, the brimming rivers. But a rainless
storm is like a loveless life ; it brings and
gains no blessing.

The children in the hollowed rock stood
and listened to the sounds in the earth above.
If it would only have rained, how welcome it
"would have been to hear the sweet cool
fall of the big rain drops ! But it seldom
rains in August even in moist Maremma,
and besides ' there is a red moon,' said Sirloin
the common superstition of all husbandry.

To the red moon the vine-dresser and
the tiller of the fields ascribe one-half their
ills. When the red pestilent dew is over
leaf and soil no peasant will ever believe that
it is not the moon that causes it.

It grew darker aud darker, the roll of
the thunder was continuous, the blaze of the
lightning lit up now and again all the
shadows of the Etruscan sepulchres.

I am afraid ! ' cried Zirlo, and hid his
face, as the electric glare shone on the
banquet painted on the walls.

There is nothing that will hurt you,'
said Musa more gently, remembering the
great awe that had fallen even upon her in
this place.

But who are those ? ' said Zirlo, trembling,
pointing to the figures of the frescoes.

They are pictures of the dead ; the
dead of honos a^fo,' said Musa with a wistful
sadness and reverence in her voice. ' They
used to reign here — here — and they must
have been happy, I think ; and they had
flowers ; see, there are the water-lilies like
our lilies now, and the dog like my own
white dog, and the pipe like that pipe you
have cut from a reed. And yet it is all long,
long ago, Joconda says ; so long that the
earth has had time to pile rocks and grow
trees above their graves, and men have quite
forgotten who they were.'

Zirlo was silent ; this was a tliin^ he
could in no way grasp, and of time he had

no notion. If lie had been asked how long lie
had lived, he would have said that he could
not remember ; he lead been always on the
moor, always with the goats ; he knew Avhat
to do for them, and that was all he did
know. His fathers before him had been
shepherds, and he had been born in a hut
made of reeds and bramble amidst the goats,
and he had sucked them as the kids did, and
grown up from a baby to a child amidst
them, and then had had a goatskin garment
girded about his loins, and a staff put in his
small hand, and had been told to take the
kids to pasture. That was all so long, long
a^o to him ; he did not think these dead
people that she spoke of could be so far away
as that.

Nothing is so impossible for the uneducated
mind to grasp as the idea of time.
Musa only understood it ^vith her imagination
; her fancy enabled her to conjecture
what her knowledge left a blank. But Zirlo
had not this fatal gift ; his mind had never
got beyond the marsh and moor, the flock
and fold. The bare l^old scarp that was
called San Lionardo was the outmost
boundary of his world. As he thought that
the ivy and the honeysuckle only grew for

his goats, so lie thought that the sun and
the rain were only made for them.

It is this narrowness of the peasant mind
^vhich philosophers never fairly understand,
and demagogues understand but too welland
warp to their own selfish purpose and
profits.

When the hurricane had lulled and they
could leave their refuge, Musa bade him
good day, and took her own way to the
Sasso Scritto, three miles off; the storm
had quite passed, Jut it had only left the
earth more arid and more desolate. Broken
branches strewed the ground, and the earth
had yawned open in many places as if by an
earthquake ; the lizards swarmed, making
the dry grass crack and rustle as they
kissed or fought ; here and there out of
a hole a snake thrust his black or leaden-coloured
head. The intense heat lay like a
fog on all the country ; a heat breathless,
scorching, cruel, in which all hues were
blanched and all animal movement seemed
suspended.

It was near the close of day; the sun
almost touched the horizon; it was dully
red, and rayless.

When she reached the edge of the waves

the red globe seemed to rest upon the water ;
a cone of luminous white light replaced it in
the heavens ; and on each side of it thei-e
flowed another crimson sun.

It was but the optical effect well known
to astronomers, due to the refraction and
reflection of light. But it terrified philosophers
and astrologers and conquerors in
days of old, and startled her now.

The long curved shores, the sea still asa
painted ocean,' the grey skies with their
pallid mists, the black heaps of putrefying
weed upon the beach, the fierce sickly heat
that had a pressure on the brain like the
heavy hand of an invisible god — these were
all too familiar to her to seem strange, but
the white iridescent intense lii>"ht of this
atmospheric phenomenon she had never
seen, for in these latitudes it is rare.

She stood still and looked at it as
Antoninus, and Pliny, and Constantine had
looked before her in the same wonder ;
herself, black as a figure on a camera against
the yellow haze of sea and sky.

As she gazed in some vague awe, beholding
the sun thus multiplied, she saw the
head of a man in the sea. He seemed not
to swim, but to be at the pleasure of the

water swell which floated him where it would.
He never moved, or struggled, or seemed to
exert himself at all. Musa looking intensely,
used to all the ways of the water and those
who trusted themselves to it, saw that the
swimmer could not make any way, that he
was cramped and paralysed. A mere black-looking
log, he lay on the glassy surface
with the vertical transparent gleam of the
luminous column behind him. Then, as she
looked, slowly, quite slowly, he sank.

He was drowning, peacefully, unresisting,
as the sun seemed itself to sink into
the sea, tranquilly and of its own will.

Musa wasted not one moment, nor
thought again of the apparition on the
heavens, but waded in, and struck out
towards him.

The water was still warm from the heat
of the day ; it felt oily and unwholesome ;
the storm had left a heavy turbulent movement
in it that was like a tide and was hard
to breast. But she had lived in the sea for
hours most days of her life, and was a strong
swimmer, capable of long exertion. The
body rose up, and once again sank, as she
neared it ; she knew it would rise yet again ;
if only she could be certain where it would

rise it would be possible she thought to herself
to save him yet. She made her way
steadily and swiftly, cleaving the Mediterranean
with her brown supple arms and
keeping her head and throat well above
water. It would have been better if she
had had the boat, she knew ; but it was ten
yards off her, moored under the Sasso Scritto,
and it would have wasted many minutes to
unloose and launch it.

She rested on the waves a moment and
watched for the man, who misrht be drowned
and dead by now, to appear again ; it was very
dark upon the sea ; the brief light of the
perihelion had faded ; the sun and its
phantoms had alike gone from sight ; there
was only a dull red spent colour far away
in the west, and the moon had not yet
risen.

At last something came in sight ; it
would have been hard to tell what it might
be in the dusk, and with the sea churned to
white foam from the storm as it was.

But she swam to and seized it ; she felt
the round shape of a human head in her
hand, and, being close to it, she saw the
dusky bulk of a human body. The skull was
close shaven, and there was nothing on the

body to hold by except a trouser-belt about
the loins, which she could daily see as the
foam broke over it and the motion of the
water rocked it. She grasped the belt with
one hand, and, swimming with the other,
turned now flat upon her breast instead of
on her back, she towed the body behind
her towards the land, as she might have
towed a piece of driftwood.

She thought he was dead, but having
thus reached him she could not abandon
him ; and there might be breath in him still.
Lie had seen drowned men restored to life.

Happily for her and him, she was but a
little way from shore, or she could not have
continued to push and drag the inert mass
that lay so heavily upon the water. The sea
upon that portion of the beach was shallow ;
she soon stood upon her feet and waded upto
her middle, always dragging the senseless
swimmer with her till she gained the pebbles
and the sand, and let him drop on them.

It was now very dark.

She bent over him and breathed into his
nostrils, and tried to make him vomit the
water from his lungs, and did what she had
seen the fishermen of Santa Tarsilla do for
any one of their number overcome with such

exhaustion. The fishermen's were rude ways,
not founded on any scientific reasons, but
often tried in actual experience ; they sometimes
succeeded and they succeeded now ; the
heart of the man began to beat feebly, the
sea water poured from his mouth, a shiver
ran through all his frame ; he awoke to life.
He was a large, sinewy, supple-limbed man ;
he wore canvas drawers and a belt of
leather ; he was burnt almost black by the
san from the forehead to the waist. He was
about fifty years old, or more. He raised
himself into a sitting posture on the sands,
and stared into the dusk with wild, fierce,
suspicious eyes, not knowing where he was,
ngt seeing the girl in the deep shadows, not
understanding what had come to him.

Do not give me up,' he muttered ; and
his hands felt at his ankles and his wrists, as
if seeking something familiar that was not
there. He lifted his head and glared around,
trying to pierce the gloom. He was confused
and stupefied, but this eyes had ferocity
and fear like those of a captured wild
beast.

If I had only a knife ! ' lie muttered. ' If
I had only a knife !'

Musa listened and was soi'rv for him.

He was afraid, this strong, rough, savage
creature ; afraid of something — perhaps of
capture. She did not think that he might
be dangerous to her. She touched him on
the shoulder.

Why do you want a knife ? And what
is it you dread ? '

He looked at her and realised in a dim
way that it was only a girl, a child, whose
figure loomed dark between him and the
grey sea sand.

How came I here ? ' he asked her, confused
still. There was scarce any light ; but
the little there was, reflected from the skies,
showed her a face so sullen in its despair, so
brutal in its ferocity that, bold child though
she was, she trembled as she saw.

You were drowning,' she said simply.
I saved you. Tliat was all'

You saved me ! '

He looked at her and laughed with a
liard, grinding, joyless laugh that grated on
her ears.

YoiiV he echoed, ' you are a baby. It
is a lie. There are men hidden '

There is no one. I am strong. I swam
and saved you. I was foolish to do it.'

He was still sitting on the sand, his

soaked canvas clinging to him, his breast
and back bare and looking like the torso of
a bronze Hercules ; his head was shaved
close, his shoulder had a brand.

Musa felt the bright brave blood in her
veins run cold. She had heard of galley-slaves
; she knew now that she was facing-one,
alone on the lonely shore.

I understand,' she said very low. ' You

have escaped ? '

He moved his head in assent.
You will not betray me ? ' he said
quickly. ' If you do, though I have no
knife, I will kill you. You are young. One
coidd crush you to death.'

You could,' said the child, and stood
looking down on him, wondering why she
had seen him this hot, silent night — why she
had saved him.

Another of her age would have fled in
terror ; Musa did not leave him. His very
ferocity and wretchedness rooted her there
and kept her wondering, and forgetful, or
indifferent, of personal pity.

How did you escape ? By swimming ? '
she asked breathlessly ; the longing for the
bold, strange tale that he must have to tell
overcame every other feeling in her.

Are you alone ? ' he said, disregarding.
If you lie I will tear you with my teeth,
and kill you, so.'

Why should I lie ? '
To hunt me down.'

I would not help them to hunt you ;
not more than I would to hunt the boar.'

He stared at her with brooding, bloodshot
eyes that glowed in the gloom like a
jackal's.

Was I drowning, do you say ? '
Yes, you were drowning : who are you P '
He ground his teeth that Hashed white
like an angry dog's.

Who ? Who ? I am nothing. I have
no name ; I am numbered like a beast of
burden. I am dead and buried. But if I

had a knife ! — if I had a knife ! '

What would you do ? '
I should be a man once more. To have
a knife and a gun, that is to be a man.'

His head sank on his chest ; he was stupid,
and his mind began to wander a little ; he
had been in the water for hours ; he was
numb and felt isti-ange. He stared at her
with reddened eyes that were black and
sombre save for the flame that could light
up in tli(3m.

You are a strange wench. Perhaps you
mean well. If you did save me '

I did save you.'

You are strong and bold then. Yes, I
swam. I have lain hid on the rocks at night
and crept along the coast by day ; we had
sighted a boat; we sculled along in her,
but in the storm just now she heeled over ;
we swam for our lives ; he who Alas with
me is drowned I think. Just now I grew
blind and numb, and I could not make
way any more. I suppose it was being so
long in the sea. I am thirsty. Give me to
drink.'

She had had the half emptied gourd slung
at her side, and had set it down on the
beach when she plunged into the water. She
held it to him, and he drank it dry.

Were it but wine ! ' he said, with an
oath. ' Give me a knife now.'

I have no knife.'

You can get one.'

Not here. This is all wild coast.'

He sat up and stared still sullenly into
the gloom ; he was bewildered, but he
remained suspicious and ferocious like the
tiger chased by night and dazzled by torches
and fire.

VOL. T. p

'I was Saturnino,' he said, low in his
teeth.

She understood. She had heard 'of
Saturnino.

If I had only a knife ! ' he repeated ;
only a knife or a gun ! '

His bronze-like shoulders glistened with
the salt of the sea ; he sat erect on the
beach regaining strength and consciousness
with each breath ; the heat of the night was
around them like steam : it seemed to her
startled fancy as if his eyes and his mouth
gave out fire. She was rooted to the ground
as by some spell ; a fascination, that she was
powerless to resist held her there, by this
man, though she knew he could turn and
rend her as the wild boar tore the young
dogs.

'Tell me how you got away,' she said
very low at last, spurred on to rashness by
an unquenchable longing to hear and know.
Tell me, tell me ; I will tell no one else ;
never, never, will I tell.'

The hunted creature that had once been
the superb chieftain of the hills did not
heed. He was looking northward down the
loner, low, level shore that shone ashen and
white in the strong moonlight.

'Is there no place to hide in?' lie
muttered ; ' is there not a rock, not a stone ?
Is it all bare — bare and accursed. They
will come hunting at daybreak.'

Do they know you are a^vay ? '

Know ? Every day I baulk them and
beat them. I lie hid, and I hear their feet
on the stones above me. I see the shine of
their steel through the gaps. Where can I
hide ? You are of the coast ? '

Yes.'

Where can I hide ? Hide me. If you
betray me I will kill you — somehow.'

Musa did not answer. She was thinking.

I know of one place,' she said slowly.

On the shore ? '

No. Inland ; a little way.'

He rose with difficulty ; a tall, gaunt,
terrible form, black and weird against the
shining sea and the starry skies.

Lead me there. Remember, I need no
knife to kill you. You are young, and tome
are little.'

I am not afraid that you should kill me.'

She spoke the truth ; she was not afraid.
An immense pity, and what was that stronger
sister of pity — sympathy — was in her for the
hunted, houseless man, and the strength of

r '2

that emotion absorbed into itself all weaker,
slighter feelings, and made selfish dread
impossible.

She was awed, but she Alas not afraid.
She wished to help him as she had wished
to help the driven boar at bay.

Her lustrous, unfathomable, star-like eyes
looked up into his wild and sombre ones ;
they did not know one another, but each
trusted the other after that one long look.

Come,' she said simply, and struck inland.


The light was clear almost as the day ;
the pale, sad shores looked wan ; the brown
and shadowy moors had a mysterious, unearthly
calm ; the heat brooded on sea and
earth like a cloud of pestilence slowly
gathering its forces to destroy. From far
off down the shore in the intense stillness
there came a sound. It was the sound of
the horses' feet of the carabineers: they
were seeking the galley-slave.

He listened with pricked ears, and
crouched, like the hunted fox; then he
followed the chin, their two shadows falling
one on another in sable blackness on the
pallor of the sand. Musa led him to the
tomb of the Lucumo.

^SlphE followed her mutely, and asked
her nothing. He did not doubt
her. He did not question her.
The sound of the horses' hoofs in
pursuit had gone from off the stillness of the
night. His quick and apprehensive glance
told him of the excellence against discovery
of the tangled scrub and thorny brake
through which she led him. When they
descended into the tomb he asked nothing
still ; to others it might be a tomb — to him
it was only a hollow in the ground as is his
earth to the fox.

It is good,' he said, as he looked around
him in the chamber of stone.

She drew the lamp forti and lighted it.
His glance glistened ; he saw gold,

What place is this ? ' be muttered, the
sight of the gold stinging his senses to life.

It is a grave,' said Musa, in a hushed
and tender voice. 'And these are sacred
things. Sacred to the dead, and to the gods.'

He laughed ; his laugh was hard and
low, and hurt her.

The place is good,' he said once more.
Is there food in it ? '

There is no food. But I will bring you
some at morning ; some bread at least.'

And a knife. Bring me a knife.'

She hesitated.

I will bring you bread and wine.'

Bring me a knife.'

But you will kill some one ? '

'What of that? I will not kill you if
you keep faith.'

I did not mean that. I am not afraid.'

Bring me a knife, if you are not afraid.'

I am not.'

Who knows of this place ? '

Not any one ; only I know, and a little
goatherd.'

That is well. Go get me the bread ; I
am sick with hunger.'

I cannot ; it is miles off that I live, but
at daybreak I will be here.'

A gleam of sullen, suspicious wonder
flared like a dull flame in his eyes.

Why should you do this ? You cannot
care.'

You are hunted,' she answered simply.

That was the truth ; he was hunted, and
so she aided him.

You can sleep there,' she said to
him, and pointed to the couch of stone on
which the golden warrior had rested. ' I
am sorry that I have no food. I will try
and be quick. But I am tired, and it is far.'

His eyes gazed at her sullenly, wonderingly,
yet with a gleam of gratitude, like the
gleam in the eyes of a fierce dog which, after
being lashed and chained through years, is
loosened by a tender hand, and wonders, distrusts,
and yet is thankful.

If you do come back you will be brave
as men are rarely,' he said, with a gloom
deep as night upon his darkening face.

I will come,' she said simply ; then she
looked up once in his face, put the lamp
down on the stone, and went.

Perhaps I should have killed her,'
thought Saturnino. ' It would have been
safer, and it would have been easy — that
small throat.'

His fingers closed instinctively as though
they were closing upon the slender neck.

But Musa was away, running fleet
through the pallid moonlight.

When she reached the edge of the sea
there was no sound ; her boat was rocking
on the surf ; the moon had climbed into the
zenith ; far away upon the white expanse of
the sands she saw four dark specks no bigger
than four stalks of grass ; they were the
carabineers riding on southward towards
Santa Tarsilla.

They are fools ! ' said the child with
scorn. Had she been in pursuit of any
creature, she would have noticed the signs
on the sands disturbed where she had
drascred the swimmer ashore ; she would not
have ridden by unheeding as they did, and
passed on, as they were doing, to Santa Tar-silly
unsuspecting.

They are fools ! ' she said to herself
with that pleasure in the defeat of authority
and that contempt for its narrow means and
narrow sight which had been born in her
with her blood. Then she loosened her
boat and rowed backward to the little
town.

The carabineers were always in sight-little

dark specks in the white space of the
sandy shore.

She was very tired. Strong and young
though she was, she was exhausted by the
efforts she had made and by the long hours
in which all her muscles had been strained
to unusual effort. The heat was still intense,
for in midsummer in this country the
heat in darkness is often more oppressive
than in the hours when the sun is shining. At
midnight and for a little after midnight, it
will at times be chill, but before midnight it
is sultry still. The heat, the sullen, heavy
air, the singular drowsiness which comes
with the moon's rays after these burning
days, united with the fatigue that she had
borne, made her eyes grow weary and
slumber steal upon her ere she was aware.
The oars lay motionless in the rowlocks, her
head dropped, her arms relaxed their tension,
and she fell asleep.

The sea was calm as glass ; her boat
floated on it with hardly any movement ; the
great white flood of moonlight fell upon it
and her ; together they made but a small,
dark, motionless tiling in the midst of that
silvery held of light. How long she slept
she never knew ; when she awoke with a

start the cool of the midnight had come that
comes with the descent of the dews.

Used to the look of the sky, she knew
that it was midnight by the stars. She
awoke refreshed, but conscience-stricken.
Every moment she delayed was a pang of
hunger and of fear more to the hunted man.
Lie owed him no service, but she pitied
him ; she had promised him ; these were
bonds that knit her to him strongly, and that
it never occurred to her to break.

But how to poet him food and wine and the
weapon that he had prayed for ? — the weapon
that she could understand would be sweeter
to him than any drink to his thirst, any
bread to his famine? She did not know
how to lind them. The houses of Santa Tar-silly
would be all shut and the people all
slumbering by the time she reached there,
and money she had none, even had there
been any place upon the coast nearer than
the fishing-town that was her home. There
was nothing for it but to ask Joconda.

She bent her back to the oars once more
and rowed on steadily ; the carabineers had
passed out of sight long before : whilst she
had been asleep they had ridden down into
Santa Tarsilla and had revived long dormant

memories with the old forgotten crv of
Saturnino.

She rowed on, and in somewhat less than
two hours she saw the low, grey line of the
stone piers of the little harbour, and the
masts of the few old useless boats that were
left at home, and the round white towers of
the soldiery and coastguard. All was quite
quiet.

She steered herself carefully within the
shallow water, and fastened the boat to the
ring. Where the moonlight is so brilliant
the shadows are proportionately black. She
could keep out of sight in these shadows,
and did so, for she heard voices and a sort
of stir in the narrow lanes that parted the
houses one from another. Some people Averse
awake loitering languidly on the stones, or
hanging from the open windows. The
passage of the mounted carabineers through
the town had roused them, but only roused
them slightly. To men and women shaking
with ague, feeble with fever, ill always
through brain and bone with the deadly air,
it mattered very little whether the law had
its rights or not.

For the most part they would have
hindered the law rather than have helped

it, but even to hinder it they would have
had but scant energy.

She went by under the shade cast by the
projecting roofs unseen by r.ny of them.
She gathered from their talk that the carabineers
had searched through the place, then
ridden on ; men were saying to one another
that they remembered Saturnino Mastarna,
remembered the day the guards had brought
him down from the hills with his feet tied
under his horse's belly for the market crowd
to gaze at in dull Grosseto.

He was a brave man,' they said with a
reverence in their voices that they never
gave to the guardians of the law.

'He was brave,' thought Musa as she
heard. * Then it must be right to save him.'

She went to her own home.

All was locked and barred; but she
pushed herself through the stable windows
by withdrawing the wooden shutter on the
outside.

Leone did not give tongue ; he came
to her in silence, only moving his tail
with welcome. Joconda lay in a sound
slumber, so sound that she might have been
murdered in her sleep without awaking. A
gleam from the moon came in and fell on

her hard, toilworn, withered face, and her
knotted hands and her rough white hair, and
the sheaf of bleached pain blessed at Easter
that hung above her bed to keep away evil
spirits and to please the saints.

Musa looked at her with a great tenderness
gleaming in her own eyes.

T am going to rob her,' she thought
wistfully. ' But I will tell her in the morning,
and if she be angry then I will sell my gold
Madonnina and pay her. That will be just.'

Without arousing the sleeper she took a
brown loaf, a flask of wine, and a knife.

Then she 'soothed Leone with a caress,
and went as she had come, softly and unseen,
drawing the stable shutter behind lier carefully
when she had gone forth again into the
air. She was now very tired. But her
spirit was strong and her will resolute. She
never thought of not returning to the tomb.
Not to keep faith with that friendless creature
would have seemed to her most vile. She
could not have told why, but when he had
every man's hand against him it would have
seemed to her vile and mean to desert him
or betray him. To spare herself did not
occur to her. She would go on, she said to
herself; go on till she dropped down, perhaps,

as the women did sometimes from
sunstroke when they were raking in the
salt.

It was now day dawn ; the pale gleam of
mornings beginning to show over the dusk
of the marshes and mountains far away inland.
Another long, dreary, scorching, cloudless day
was about to be born on Maremma.

She stepped once more into the boat,
and once more retraced her path across the
waters.

The gossipers had all gone within to
sleep a little ; a few early-risen toilers, too
aged or ill to be away with the coral fleet,
were getting out tackle and nets to go and
try for fish close in to shore, or going with
their sickles to cut the maritime rush that
grew in lonir lines here and there between
the beach and marsh.

No one noticed her, because they were
so used to see her out at daybreak by. or on,
the sea.

She got away safely, and rowed on along
the coast. She was so fatigued that she could
barely grasp the oars and move them, and
she made slow headway against the inert
water. There were fish rising all around
her ; before going deep down in the heat of

the noon they passed the early morning on
the surface, catching insects and infusoria.
The sun was not yet up, and it was cool ; yet
all the landscape was pale, grey, and weary-looking
as if the night had brought little
repose and little freshness.

It was a toilsome journey ; it seemed to
her to be endless. Midway in it the sun
rose, and the touch of its rays on her bare
arms felt like fire. In the great heats even
sunrise loses its charm, and seems but a
trouble the more to the tired eyes that wake
from startled sleep and wasting sweats.

With pain and effort she dragged herself
ashore at last, three hours after she had left
the pier of Santa Tarsilla, and began her
toilsome walk throu<]jh the close-frrowinjx
timber and thorny thickets up to the tomb.
Her head swam, her sidit began to fail, her
limbs felt heavy as lead ; but the thought of
the faith that she kept, of the succour she
went to give, sustained her.

'He will not doubt now,' she thought.
'He will be glad.'

She had brought away with her, as well
as the knife, three silver coins that had
been given her once by a traveller whom
she had guided across the marshes ; they

were all she had ; she meant to give them
to Saturn.

She pushed her way through the cistus,
and bear berry, and rosemary ; now and
then a partridge flew up before her feet, but
there were no birds singing ; the season of
song was passed. There were hundreds of
lizards rushing to and fro, and the big wood
rat, the fox, and the snipe, and the plover,
were still astir, going home after their
night's foray ; that was all.

She pushed the bushes aside and ran
down the steps, and entered the cave without
fear, thinking only of the help that she
brought. The tomb was empty.

In answer to her shouts there was only a
dull echo thrown back from the roof of
sandstone.

Suspicion and distrust, the seeds sown by
captivity, and sure to bring forth fruit in
sullen sins of hatred and of fear, had been
too strong for the nature of the galley-slave
to resist their influence and their instinct.
How could he tell that she would not sell
her secret for a price, and only return to
bring his capturers with her? How could
he tell ?

Alone there in the bowels of the earth,



cowardice and mistrust had mastered him.
He had left his shelter and fled.

Looking round, she saw that the golden
lamp, and the golden diadem, and all the
toys of gold, were gone.

Saturnino, so long the robber of the
living, had now robbed the dead.

VOL. I.

;HEN late in the hot clay Miisa
returned to Santa Tarsilla, after
long dreamless sleep of intense
fatigue which had lasted many
hours, she was very pale, and her face had a
look of sullen pain. For the first time in her
young life lie had been deceived. Where
he had gone in those ^^dld swamps and
barren moors she knew not, but he had
deceived her — that was enough to know.

He had robbed the dead and their gods.
He became abhorrent to her.

Of the thanklessness to herself she
thought little, but of that theft of the sacred
things she had no forgiveness. She had
never felt even tempted to take them ; they
had been hallowed to her ; they had been

the armour, the arms, the jewels, the possessions
of the golden king whom the first
ray of light had set free to ascend to the
stars. She should sooner have stolen the
chalice off the church altar, the jewels ofl
the saint's shrine, than have touched those
treasures of the Etruscan dead.

The flight and the theft of the man
she had saved, weighed on her ^vith a sense
of shame ; a burning indignation consumed
her. She was silent by nature ; she crushed
the pain in silence into her heart, and said to
herself that she would never speak of that
traitor — never tell any living being of her
rescue of him and of her betrayal by him —
never ; not even Joconda.

She came home to the stone pier of
Santa Tarsilla and fastened up the boat in
silence, and took her way through the
little town, steeped in the drowsy calm of
a sultry and late afternoon.

Here and there in an open court, or upon
a stone bench, or under the deep eaves of a
roof some figure was lying asleep ; that was
all. The stillness of heat and of exhaustion
had fallen on all the place, and the very
dogs lay motionless and stupid in what little
shade there was to be found anywhere.

u -2

Where was he, the hunted man, in this
intolerable glare of day ?

She thought of him fleeing always over
the brown burnt moors, the pallid wastes of
sand, with the stolen gold that he would be
able neither to eat nor drink, and would not
dare to barter. Let the guards have him if
they would, she thought ; he was vile.

Nothing is so cruel as south in its scorn ;
she was full of scorn, and cruel. She would
have seen the guards take him now, and
would not have lifted her hand or opened
her lips. He was a traitor and a thief.

Yet it hurt her to remember what he had
done. The betrayal weighed upon her with
a heavy hand. She had given him sanctuary,
and he had robbed her.

A girl she knew, Fulvia, daughter of
Gianno, was sitting on an open door sunning
her rich sold tresses in the old Venetian
way.

Where have you been ? ' the girl called
to her. ' There was a stir last night. Some
carabineers came hunting for a man that
had got away off Gorgonaa. They said he
was Saturnino. Saturnino used to rule all
the mountains over there, so my father says ;
have you heard tell of it ? *

I have been away on the sea,' said
Musa, and passed on ; the girl called after
her.

He is loose on the country, so they say,
lie has got away somewhere ; I thought
you might know. But you have never a
word for any one, you graceless, sullen
thing.'

Musa passed on along the line of sun-baked
stone-faced houses with their middens
stinking in front of them, and beyond the
middens the rotten seaweeds, the salt and
clammy beach.

She reached her home in a few moments ;
the house was closed as it had been at
midnight, and was quite as still. She was
not frightened at that, since often Joconda
went far afield with the old mule, and shut
her dwelling closely in her absence. Perhaps
Joconda had gone to seek for her, herself,
alarmed at her being away so long upon the
water ; — so she thought.

She tried the house door ; the dog was
howling low within. She could not stir the
door, which fastened inside with ancient
iron bolts and locks. She slipped the
stable shutter as before, and by the stable
entered the house as iu the night. The

mule was in his place, mingling straw and
the withered leaves of cane.

She went thence into the room of Joconda
; Leone did not cease to howl, although
he saw her.

Joconda still lay sleeping.

She must be ill,' thought Musa, with a
sudden pang, and the chillness of a new
vague terror falling on her.

She sprang to the bedside where the dog
lay moaning. Joconda had not moved since
the night ; only on her face there was
shining, instead of the silvery moonlight, the
yellowish, sickly glare of the setting sun.

She had died in her sleep.

A terrible cry rang through the empty
house out to the seashore.

Musa was left alone.

!HILSr in the midnight hours the
carabineers had searched Santa
Tarsilla, and the people had
spoken of Saturnine and recalled
the old days of his prowess and fame, this
long, toil-worn, rough, enduring life had
come to an end ; decently, silently, without
complaint and without companionship, as it
had been spent.

When the neighbours, apathetic but not
brutal, though, being a foreign woman, they
had let her live alone, came running in at
the sound of that terrible and desolate cry,
they found Musa lying senseless by the white
dog, and the blanched blest palm hanging
above a body already cold in the stiffness of
death.

Joconda must have died somewhere
about midnight, so the apothecary told them
when he came. He said that death had come
from sheer old age ; the life had ceased, that
was all, as an old tree falls, as an old clock
refuses to move and grows dumb. There was
nothing strange in it. She had been eighty-five
years old if one. No one had noticed
her house being closed all day, because it
was so often shut up in that way when she
was absent.

When Musa regained consciousness she
saw the brown, withered, labour-bent body
lying still upon the mattress, as an old broken
bough will lie on the cold ground.

I robbed her last night ! ' she said
suddenly, with a piteous self-reproach. Her
great eyes had a grievous despair and shame
in them.

Happily for her, in the clamour of
tongues around her no one heard or heeded.
No one thought of her, or troubled about her.
Joconda must be buried before another day
broke, that was what they thought of, and
talked of who would have the little she had
saved, and the mule. It was a strong beast
and useful, although old ; they began to ask
each other what they would give for it, and

to wonder who had the right to see to the
burial and pay for the mass. She was
known to have had a little money hidden
somewhere, but perhaps she had people that
belonged to her over the mountains in far
Savoy.

None of them thought of Musa, who,
after that first bitter cry of self-reproach
had burst from lier, had sat mute and still
beside the dead, with the white dog between
her knees.

When they fetched the priest from
vespers, and he spoke to her, she stared ; his
words went by her without awaking in her
any sense of them ; she was dumb as the
dog was ; her sorrow had neither tears nor
speech, yet it was very great.

Between Joconda and herself there had
been seldom tenderness, but there had been
always love. An immense void had suddenly
yawned in lier pati ; an immense
loss, that lie could ill measure, had fallen
on her. She had not been very happy, for
life at Santa Tarsi does not contain many
of the elements of happiness ; she had always
vaguely suffered from the narrowness and
stupor of it, from the languor and disease
that were around her, and her whole nature

and intelligence had always needed a richer
soil, a finer air. But Joconda had been
good to her always. She had been all that
the girl had known of motherlike care and
watchfulness ; she had been always just, and,
in her own rough way, indulgent. What
she knew of the wild, fierce strain that was
in Musa's veins had made her very patient
of her wanderings on sea and land, and of
her sudden passions. Joconda had always
said to herself, ' it is the blood of the
Mastarna,' and so had made excuse.

It had been a part of her life to see
Joconda always near her ; she had never had
to take thought for herself : the bread and the
broth were always on the board ; her linen in
summer, her lamb's-wool clothes in winter,
were always ready ; as she had dropped
asleep she had always heard the voice of
Joconda muttering her aves in that faith in
some answer coming sometime, from somewhere,
which had never left her ; though an
answer she never had got, unless this death
which had come to her all unawares in the
stillness of the night could be called one.

they buried lier at midnight with
the horrible, selfish haste of the
country's habits and laws in death.

The day before she had been alive ; a
woman, shrewd, brave, wise, and faithful
in her own rude way, boiling the soup in
her pot, cutting the canes for her mule,
looking at the sea and the sun, giving good-day
to her neighbours from her house-door;
and now she Alas thrown into a hole of the
earth, and the earth was cast in upon her,
and she was nothing — nothing ; — less than
the fish that died in the nets on the shore,
for they could be sold, and so were of
value.

To the living, human beings are cruel
very often ; but to the dead they are always
brutal, be the dead, pauper or king.

Only one torch burned for her ; old
Andreino, the fisherman, bore it. It burnt
steadily in the hot, heavy night. Musa and
the white dog stood by the grave. She
moved as if she were walking in her sleep,
and never a sound came from her lips ; the
dog hung his head, but was quiet, pressing
close to her side. Once he threw his muzzle
in the air and howled. It was when the first
shovelful of sand and clay fell on the dead
body.

The priest spoke some commonplace
words of consolation and of hope ; he was a
simple, honest man, the son of seafaring
people, and born fifty years earlier in
Santa Tarsilla. Musa did not hear what he
spoke.

She went home in unbroken silence ;
the night was oppressive, the sea was still,
the heavens were covered with mist. There
was one more grave on the low sandy shore ;
that was all.

She went home to the house, and barred
herself in, and threw herself on the bed
where Joconda had died. No one had the
heart to disturb her that night.

Let her sleep if she can,' said the priest
and old Andreino. But for them the women

would have dragged lier out, and made her
understand that she was homeless.

All the day following she kept her door,
and her shutters, barred, and would see
no livinj]^ creature. Towards evening the
priest of the parish came ; a little bibulous
and garrulous, not clever nor wise, but
simple of spirit, and honest and cheerful.

She would not open to him until he said
that he brought her a message from the dead.
Then she let him enter, shutting the door
again on the peering faces of Andreino and
some women shattered out there in the hot

air.

The priest spoke kindly to her, a little
frightened at her looks ; she was quite silent,
and her eyes were dry though their lids were
swollen and very weary.

He told her that the dead woman had-left
with him the knowledge of the precise
spot where her little treasure was hidden,
and lie counted] the stones of the paved
floor from right to left, and found the one
beneath which was the pitcher containing
the coins, and he raised it up, and took
the pitcher out, and read to her the words
of bequest leaving to her the money, the
furniture, the hardware, the mule, all in a

word that Joconcla had possessed, written
by the scribe of Grosseto on the bit of
yellow paper folded across the jug.

Musa listened and saw ; she said nothing ;
she did not even notice that on that paper
she had herself no name save the baptismal
one from the Egyptian saint » She only
thought all the while :

She was all I had on earth and she is
gone.'

The priest tried to speak a few phrases
in season of counsel, to hazard a few questions,
but he made no way. Musa was
still and mute ; she seemed to him like a
statue ; she said only as lie looked at the
pitcher —

This is mine ? '

Surely,' said the priest. 'At least
there are none that I know of nearer of
kin to dispute, and even if there were, the
bequest, I think, would hold good. I am
not sure, but so I believe.'

Musa lifted the pavement and replaced
the pitcher with its coins in its hole. Then,
with a sound that was half sob, half sigh,
she sat down on the edij^e of the low bed

and said to the good man ;

t>'

Father, will you go ? I am best alone.'

'But you cannot remain alone — yon, a
girl so young '

She did not answer. There was something
in her look and in lier attitude that
awed him : he was used to the vehement
outbursts and the evanescent passions of a
passionate but quickly consoled people ;
lie did ■ not understand her ; he thought
hastily that in the morning he must take
counsel with the sisters up at the convent,
and muttered his blessing feebly and
went away. She barred the door behind
him.

The good man went home and ate his
little supper of small fish and oil, and drank a
sweet pale wine, and gossiped with his capellae,
telling him that the woman of Savoy
had after all died worth a pretty penny ; a
whole jug full of gold pieces under the
stones and left to the girl. Who was the
girl ? What would she do ?

The capellae in turn went out and gossiped
with the few dwellers in Santa Tarsilla,
all loitering or lying about by the edge of the
sea this hot night, gasping for a breath of air,
and, in default of the air, gratcftd to hear
some news.

They grumbled much one to another;

for they were dissatisfied, and their curiosity
had no food for its appetites.

One would have thought to know who
that wench is now,' they grumbled to one
another, and some of the women said :

She has got no name. That is odd. Do
you mind of the time when Saturnino was
taken up in the hills yonder ? Some did
think then the girl was Saturnino's daughter.
But Joconda was always so close.'

Musa herself did not notice that she had
no name in that little wrinkled bit of paper
which gave her the money and the mule.

Alone she passed the long oppressive
sultry hours.

She heard the voices of the people outside
as the sun dropped and the night came ;
but she would not open, even to old ,
who rapped at the door with a stick
and called to her more than once. She
lay awake all the night long ; towards dawn
she fell into what was rather stupor than
sleep. In her sleep she was always trying
to loosen the weight of the sand and the
earth that lay on the body of her lost friend,
and to hft up Joconda from that close and
cruel prison. She thought she could have
better borne her loss if the dead body had

been laid gently down upon those rocky biers
in the Etruscan tomb, there to wait till the
moonlight should touch her and take her to
itself, as it had touched and taken the
Etruscan king. But hoar could she ever rise
from that narrow bed, from that stifling sand,
from that ghastly crowded place where the
dead lay like mounds of putrid fish, thrown
down and forsaken ?

It was late in the day when the child
awoke from this heavy troubled sleep, which
left her dazed and fatigued, as she had been
at night ; awoke with the burning sun on her
aching eyes, to hear impatient hands knocking
at the shutters and the house door :

Art thou dead, too ? ' the shrill voices
of women were calling.

Musa-shuddered, and in the scorching
heat of the morning felt cold.

Was Joconda in truth lost for ever.^
Had this death which had been so \o\vf in
the mist of a vague dread and foreboding
become a fact ? Would she never come back ?

The neighbours knocked louder and
louder. She rose, clothed herself and
opened to them.

What do you want ? ' she asked of
them.

VOL. I. R

Tliey burst into the room ; the ^Y(i or
six women who were all that Santa Tarsilla
held in summer-time, a little sickly child
or two between them ; old Andreino was a
little way behind.

My dear one,' he said, with a hand to
his eyes, * if any love can be of use to you, I
and my Seraphina too '

You can have nothing ready in the
house. Come and break your fast with us,
Musa mine,' said the foremost woman, ruthlessly
drowning the rest of his phrases
with her own shrill tones, to be in turn
swamped in a neighbour's fuller voice that

cried :

Not a wink of sleep have I had this
night, thinking of the good soul gone to her
rest ; neither have you closed your cyc^, my
dear ; that one sees without asking. I have
brought a fresh egg '

Addle your eggs ! ' cried a third, elbowing
her away with scorn ; though, indeed,
PCTcfs were rare as roses on the sad seashore.

CO

'Let the girl come and take bit and sup
with one who can be as a mother to hier.
How should she dwell alone and fare and
cook for herself ? My man has just brought
in some fine fresh crayfish '

Get out,' said old Andrei no fiercely ;
who should lie come to if not to her oldest
friends? My Seraphina is in bed with the
ague, or she would have been here all night.
My house is Musa's, and that 1 promised long
ago to the good dead soul sitting out by the
threshold there. I said to Joconda — I
said '

He continued to talk for ten full minutes,
but no one heard a syllable more that he
said, by reason of the superior strength of
screaming that the women's lungs possessed.

Amidst the hubbub and outcries she
stood quite still ; she scarcely seemed even
to see that the people were there.

When they found her silence continue so
long, and that neither by look nor word was
she moved to respond to their hospitable and
fond entreaties, they began to grow angry ;
and one of them said tartly and hotly :

We come in charity and good will, but
we may go in wrath. Musa, there is money
here, and there are debts that should be paid
with it.'

Debts ! '

It was the hast word she spoke. She
had heard of debt ; she knew that it was a
great calamity. Joconda had always spoken

K 2

of it as a great shame ; she lead seen the
man of the law gong into the wretched
cabins of the neighbours more than once,
and seizing and selling the very chattels of
the cupboard, the very mattress of the bed ;
and at such a time Joconda had always
said — ' they have burned their candle at
both ends ; they have eaten their Paschal
lamb at Cognisant ; poor fools, poor knaves ! '

She knew that debt had no more clung
about Joconda's honest name than ill-got
gold had clunor about her honest fingers.

You have got all the money she left,'
said one. ' You are a brave and honest girl,
Maria Penitentee ; you will pay me that
quintals of hay for the mule '

And my little bill for the coffee and
the beans and the cheese,' said another, who
kept the small pizzicheria shop by the
church. ' It has run and run, goodness
can tell how long, but I was never one
to press ; and we all knew that the old
soul was safe and warm though she was
niggard.'

And there are three pairs of boots
owing to my husband,' said the cobbler's
wife, who had come on his errand, because
he was such a poor weak white-livered

thing himself; ' Joconda wore out a many-boots
; tramp, tramp, trot, trot, for ever as
she did ; and too proud-stomached ever to
go a seal z a '

There is a trifle of oil, a quarter-barrel ;
I let her have it last Night of the Kings as I
had fetched it in from the country, thinking
it only neighbourliness,' said a fourth, who
had a year-old baby at her breast.

'And there were little sums I lent, on
and off, not much ; she put her cross for
them ; she was a lone creature ; one could
not be hard. I have got them all fair writ
out, and her cross is at home in the book,*
said the woman who lived next door, whose
husband owned three of the fishing-smacks,
and was a strozzino in a little hungry way,
i.e. a usurer, who lent out small sums at
large interest, and kept his gains in a deep
well in the court of his old house, and could
never sleep at night for thinking of them,
and so was in a fair way to grace a madhouse
before long : a man whom Santa Tar-silly
cursed as it never had cursed Saturnino.

Musa was still and mute ; she heard
them ; she stood erect in the centre of the
floor where the sunlight made a f]^olden
glory all about her.

Old Andreino sidled through the vociferating
knot of women, and came close to
her and put his mouth to her ear.

Never listen to them ; her debts were
her own if she had any ; let them take their
scores to her grave. Come home with me,
my dear, and bring the pitcher with you and
we will count it all out fair and straight, and
think what best to do with it ; you might
put it in my son's wine shop, and he would
give you good profit out of it, and so '

Musa shook him off; she stood like
one slowly awaking out of a hideous dream ;
she looked from his face to the faces of the
women, and a darkness of scorn and of rage
gathered over her own.

You all lie ! You all lie 1 ' she said,
sternly. ' She never Saved man or woman a
handful of leaves, or a hank of wool, or a
copper coin in all the days of her life.
Never, never ! She robbed herself to give
to me. She robbed no other. Oh tongues
false and accursed !-have you no fear when
you lie of the dead ? '

For a moment they were silenced before
the intensity of scorn, the solemnity of
rebuke. For a moment their falsehood
and their greed shrivelled up as dry leaves

shrivel before a flame. But only for a
moment, for they had so lied one to another
that their lie almost seemed a truth to them ;
almost they had persuaded even themselves
that they had a right to the gold of the
woman of Savoy.

Would we come with false claims ? ' they
shrieked aloud in a chorus of wounded
honour, and cried one against another, ' This
is what comes of too great goodness ! We
trusted a foreign woman, and we left her
alone because she was old, and then, Avheu
her end comes, we are despoiled ! This is
our reward ! This is the justice we get from
aliens ! '

Be quiet ! be quiet ! my dear friends —
my good sweet neighbours I ' murmured the
old man, running from one to another, and
thinking": to himself, ' Whether she owed them
or not, not a stiver of that good money shall
go in the maw of these pigs. Xo, no ; my
grandson and I will do justice by her ; and
if she love not the wineshop we might buy
a share in a boat, or in the salt-working, or
purchase a pinto and clear it '

For as yet he did not know how much
was in the pitcher or not ; but lie was quite
sure the amount must be large.

The women began to shriek more and
more loudly ; they screamed one against the
other. Conscious that proofs were wanting
they made up for lack of evidence with
storm of noise ; they howled aloud that
they were honest as the day, and were
robbed, they reviled the dead in her

grave.

Proof ! She wants proof ! ' they yelled.
If we have no proof, or but little, it is because
we Avere too good. We trusted an old
lone creature. We let her take our substance
and never asked her a quittance. We
were too good, too simple, too long-suffering ;
and now we are cheated at last.'

Musa stood and looked at them ; her
face was pale and cold as marble, only in her
eyes a passion of hatred and of scorn shone
as the lightnings would shine at night in the
purple skies of the summer.

She bore in silence for a while that hissing
steam of angry breath, that harsh shrill
uproar of abusive voices, their menacing
hands that dashed about her in the air, their
glittering eyes, that seemed to dart at her
like snakes' tongues in the sundays. Then,
all of a sudden, she stooped, lifted the
loosened stone, and took up the pitcher from

the hole. She raised it above lier head one
instant, high above her head and their reach,
as she had held a pitcher of water a thousand
times if one.

You are false and accursed,' she said to
them, and her voice was deep and clear, and
smote them as if it were a sword. ' You are
false and accursed ; and she owed no manor
woman a thread in her garments, a crust
in her mouth. She was honest and faithful
and true, and cheated not a dog nor a mice
of his rights. But all she has left — take !
Take and scramble for it like the thieves you
are ; and may the bread and the wine that
you buy with it blister your mouths and
consume your bodies.'

Then with a single gesture of magnificent
rage she dashed the pitcher down through
the sunlight on to the floor amidst them ; it
fell shattered in a score of pieces on the
stones, and the coins rolled hither and thither,
and their metal gleamed in the sunlight.
The women threw themselves on them. The
old man screamed.

Musa called Leone to her side, took the
linen, and the summer and winter clothing
that belonged to her, took the lute and the
distaff, and the trifles that were her own,

passed into the adjacent clamber where the
mule was stabled, bridled him and led him
out into the open air, first having bound
upon his back her own mattress, with its
hempen sheeting and its coarse but warm
blankets.

The women were yelling and quarrelling
over the scattered coin ; the old man was
trying to snatch his share, and was buffeted
and beaten between them. In their haste
and their greed and their struggle they did
not notice or know what she did.

Without looking back once she passed
out of the old home of her childhood, and
went out between the blocks of stone and
the stunted aloes, leading the mule and
followed by the dog.

She went straight across the tufa mounds,
and the narrow paths crossing the reedy,
moist soil, the rank grass lands, and the
wild undergrowth that stretched around
Santa Tarsilla, and walked slowly on and on,
on and on, for eight miles, plunging into the
deep woodland and entering the vast virgin
meadows, until she came within sight of those
cliffs of sandstone, where the tombs of the
Tyrrhenes were hidden away behind the fence
of thorny fuscus and the dense walls of bay.

Tliey will not be angered against me,
nor will they speak ill of her,' she thought ;
and led the mule straight onward to the
place she loved, where the tall leafy cork-trees
rose up from the thickets, and the
white-flowered cistus-bushes, and the hawthorns
and the myrtles, and the yellow-blossoming
Christ 's-thorn covered the burial-place
of the Etruscan dead.

Intense heat still brooded over all the
land, but she was used to it ; it did not
harm her.

For miles around there was nothing
visible ; not a sail in the distant sea, not a
bird in the air, not a boar in the brakes, nota
snake in the sand.

She led the old mule, and paced beside
him ; her heart was like a stone, her feet felt
like lead ; all at once she realised all that
the faithful, kindly, fostering love of Joconda
had been to her, and knew that it was gone
from her for ever.

She went on with the animal through the
hot white light, their shadows lying black
behind them on the scorched grass and the
grey sand. An immense sorrow had entered
into her, and an immense regret. She
thought — ' I was never thankful ! '

She had not been thankful because she
had not understood. As the child does not
comprehend his cost to the mother who bore
the burden of him, so she had never understood
what she owed to the woman who had
sheltered her nameless life.

She had taken all that was about her, as
children do, unthinkingly ; they do not ask
why the sun shines, why the bread is there,
why the roof is between their heads and the
Winter storm ; these things are so ; they
accept them and do not question nor wonder.
She had not been thankless ; she had
only been a child. Stow she was a child no
more. She had looked on death, and it had
left her desolate.

She had made her mind up to go and
dwell with those whom she had called her
own people, in the twilight of the earth,
underneath the grass and canes. She was
sure that they would not repulse her.

She preferred their mute mercy to the
clamouring greed of the living. What appalled
her was, not that she was penniless,
but that she was alone.

She went across the moor in the strong
unchanging sunlight that, as the day grew
apace, ceased to have even the relief of any

shade from leaf or blade of reed. She met
no living elinor. She uncovered the entrance
of the tomb and descended the steps into it ;
and the mule, used to the stone stairs that
led to his own stable, was with little trouble
induced to follow. She unloaded the things
off his back and laid them down ; she took
her sickle and went up into the air and cut
thistles and dry grass for him, and filled a
stoup of water at the half-dried pool, and
stabled him there in as much comfort as she
could. Then she shattered sticks together,
and lit a fire on the stones of the entrance-place,
and set a little soup-pot on to boil
with some herbs and beans and fish in it
that she had brought, with some rough bread,
to make her midday meal.

The food seemed to choke her, but lie
ate, being young and in health, so that
hunger came to her despite her sorrow.

When she had eaten she laid her bedclothes
on the stone couch that had served
for the last sleep of the Etruscan Lucumo, and
sat down in the soft grey gloom of the twit
place, sheltered from the glare and scorch
of day, and said to herself, ' my home is
here.'

Santa Tarsilla was no more her home.

It was full of liars and of thieves. She abhorred
it. Though its sands were to become
full of silver ore, as the soil of Populonia
once had been, she said to herself that
never again should her feet tread them.

Let them keep the money and kill each
other fighting over it !

She almost smiled as she sat there in the
gloom and thought of old Andreino beaten to
and fro by the struggling women, and clutching
at the coins and shrieking in his feeble
treble.

One would think that gold were God ! '
she thought ; remembering how but three
days before the galley-slave had robbed her :
robbed the tomb that was sacred, the dead
that were defenceless.

The terror of her own lonely and hapless
fate looked at her from the awful eyes
of the sculptured Chimaera and the frowning
brows of the painted Typhon ; yet so consoled
was she to be in this silent sanctuary
that she began to think of her future maintenance
and her future liberty here with a
Sense of deliverance rather than of danger.
There would indeed, she knew, be no means
of gaining any livelihood here. She could
spin well, but so could every one else in the

province, and she could make nets with skill,
but so could every fisherman on the seaboard
: and there was nothing beyond these
to do.

Work is the political economist's one
advice and panacea ; but there are many
places in the world where it is not possible
to work, and the Maremma in summer-time is
one of them. There is nothing to labour
at ; all has been already done by the army of
labourers that stream down from the mountains.
The few that are left lie in the sun
and think themselves blessed if they do not
sicken or starve ; many do both.

But of sickness she had no fear, and she
was not even afraid of famine.

She thought if she could manage to make
her bread from the saggina^ or wild oats, that
grew all around she could live here well
enough. She scarcely, indeed, took more
thought of what might be her bodily privation
than the nit^jhtiuo^ales comines back,
whilst the days are still short and the woodlands
still brown with their first budding,
take heed of the wild weather that may come
to still their sciig and stay their courting.

She had never known any kind of indulgence
or fastidious appetite. She had

always eaten sparingly of the simplest food ;
the idea that she might have only a bit of
oaten bread for weeks together did not
frighten her. She was very well aware that
she would have to depend on what her owen
hands could gather.

The old mule was Ivino- down on the
litter of dry grasses ; the dog was asleep, for
he was old too and soon drowsy ; the twilight
of the tomb was like the soft shadows
that herald the dawn ; the painted shapes
upon the walls played on their pipes, and
wreathed their garlands, and danced in the
border of lotus flower ; outside, the burning
day was fierce and white, the animal life of
the moors was all hidden and still, there was
only the rustle of the snake through the tall
stalks of the distaff-canes, the hoot of the
cicala swino-ins^ high on the caroba^ boughs :
the sound of the insects' odd singing came
faintly into the stillness of the tombs.

If only she were here ! ' thought Musa.

Who had been those vanished people who
had known so well how to cherish their dead
and put them gently away in their painted
chambers with the toys of their infancy, or
the weapons of their manhood, or the

Ceratonia siliqua.

jewels of their virginal or matronly pride,
tenderly placed beside them ? Who had
they been, those forgotten peoples, who
robbed death of half its terrors, and laid the
dog beside his master, the toy beside the
child, in cool, fresh, sacred chambers where
the dead seemed not dead but waiting?

Ah ! why was she not here ! — she, who
was thrust into that hole in the sand, in that
box of pitch-pine, thrust out of life with
unseemly haste, with a brutal eagerness to be
rid of her and forget that ever she had been.

Musa could not have reasoned out the
thing she felt ; but the ghastly rites, the hideous
selfishness, the vulgar hurrying cruelty,
that mark out the Christian treatment of the
dead weighed on her with their harshness
and their horror as she sat in these graves of
the Etruscans — made ere men had heard of
Christ.

Then for the first time a few great tears
rushed into her eyes and she Avert bitterly,
and, thus weeping, fell at the last asleep, in a
merciful sleep that lasted through several
hours, while the hot day throbbed itself away
without, and the rays of the sun beat in
vain upon her resting-place and could not
enter.

VOL. I. 8

When she awoke it was dark ; night-herons,
early come from the north on their
voyage to Egypt, flying over the marshes
sent forth their loud harsh croak. She
mounted the stairs and looked upward, and
guessed the hour by the place of the evening
star, and the look of the heavens. She went
down again and ate a little and drank some
water, fed the dog and the mule, shut them
both in the chamber, and went out into the
open air.

She had an errand to do, with which, undone,
it seemed to her she could not sleep. A
strange fancy had come to her, and the fancy
assumed the shape of duty to her ; of a duty
of gratitude so imperative that it would have
been a guilt in her sight to evade its execution.


The uneducated are perhaps unjustly
judged sometimes. To the ignorant both
right and wrong are only instincts ; when one
remembers their piteous and innocent confusion
of ideas, the twilight of dim comprehension
in which they dwell, one feels that
oftentimes the laws of cultured men are too
hard on them, and that, in a better sense than
that of injustice and reproach, there ought
indeed to be two laws for rich and poor.

Musa walked through the still sultry night.

There was a haze of heat over the heavens
that obscured the stars, and there was no
moon. •

When she reached the entrance of Santa
Tarsilla it was midnight and quite dark.
There were no lights in any of the houses ;
far down the coast there was the gleam of
the pharos of Orbetello : all else on sea and
earth was in impenetrable gloom.

She, who had known the ways of the
place from infancy, made no error in her
going. She took her path straight to that
field of death where they had laid Joconda.

The walls of the cemetery were low and
white ; one of them was washed by the sea.
Her eyes, grown accustomed to the blackness
of the moonless air, discerned the outline of
the walls, and over the inland one, nearest to
her, she leaped with the agility of her strong
youth, and slowly took her road over the
rough clods and the rough grass of the
enclosure.

Then she lit a lantern she had brought
with her, and by its light found her way to
the freshest grave that was there, hard by the
sea wall.

The cartli lay all broken up into liard
s 2

clods and heavy lumps as the earth, when
sun-baked by a scorching midsummer, always
lies, beat it as spade and hoe may.
She stood by it, looking down on it timidly
and tenderly with yearning eyes awhile ;
then she lifted her lantern and Event to the
little white-washed shed which served as a
funeral chapel.

There was a toolhouse close by it, the
door of which was never shut ; she went
in and got a pickaxe and other tools and
returned with them to the grave of Joconda.

She began to loosen the earth ; that brutal
earth which lay so heavily on the breast of her
best friend.

Southward on the sea there was now
a crowd of lights burning yellow against
the deep blue of the summer night ; the
men of the Orbetellano were spearing the
fish frightened and blinded by the blaze of
lanterns. But there was no sound in all the
place except the ripple of the water against
the low tortured wall. Once a dog, faraway
in the fields, barked.

She laboured on undisturbed.

The earth loosened when so dry does not
readily adhere together again, and the clods
were all easy to remove. In an hour's time

she had uncovered the rough deal box that
they had called Joconda's cofTiii.

She took breath and leaned against the
wall and gazed down into the chasm. Before
womanhood had fully opened for ]her she
knew the doom that comes with age. She
lived with the lost dead instead of with the
living.

A deep-toned clock in the house nearest
struck faintly the seventh hour ; the old way
of counting time still prevails in Maremma.
It was, as we say, one hoi' after midnight.
The fear of interruption gave her
fresh strength and energy. She knew that
to raise the coffin would be more difficult
than to uncover it ; but she descended into
the pit, tied cords about it, and, after another
Jour's hard and patient toil, raised it up onto
the ground above.

Then she trembled ; the great dews
rolled off her forehead ; in the hot night she
grew cold.

The only human soul that had ever
loved her was there at her feet, helpless and
senseless as the clods of clay — no more a
luunan creature, but a thing thrust out of
sight and forgotten of all.

She shivered as she looked on it ; then

she took up her spade and shovelled in the
earth ; dry as it had been, and loose, she
knew that in the morning it would bear
no sign of disturbance to careless eyes, and
that most likely there would not be even a
careless glance cast on that waste corner by
the old sea wall.

When it was all filled in, the earth was
lower than it had been, but this would
seem no more than the natural in-sinking of
the soil. She rested once again, a moment,
from her labour, and drew breath again for
her heaviest trial of strength, the lifting of
the coffin over the wall and into the boat
beneath. She had great strength in her
symmetrical limbs ; she was shaped as nobly
as a Greek statue, and in her beautiful arms,
her straight limbs, her superb hips, there was
no less force than grace. From her childhood
upward the sea had bathed, the wind
had fed, the sweetness of sound sleep and
the tonic of athletic exercise had nourished
her. Beside the sun-starved, room-cooped
prisoners of the factory and of the schoolroom
she would have been as Atlanta beside
the dried and shrivelled atomy of a specimen -
jar. With all her strength now she raised
the coffin by the cords she had knotted

about it, dragged it up on to the wall beside
lier, which was of breadth enough to afford
safe footing, and thence by degrees lowered
it into the old wooden craft, half boat, half
tub, belonging to Andreino in which she had
spent her happiest hours.

She descended into the punt, laid the
coffin reverently at her feet, loosened the
chain from the staple, and, taking up her
oars, bent over them and began to row
back to the place on the sea-shore where she
had rescued the galley-slave Mastarna.

She was drenched with the sweat of
exertion, she was cold with a nameless
terror, she was aching in every muscle with
the strain of her over-wrought labour. But
she was content. She had done her duty as
she saw it. When her eyes rested on the
deal surface of the oblong thing at her feet,
she thought tenderly,

Surely she knows ; surely she is glad I
take her to them ? "

It had seemed to her so brutal, so vile,
so thankless to thrust the dead, only because
it incas dead, into the earth, in a waste hole
of ground, and leave it alone to the growth
of the rank grass and the thistle, to the companionship
of the newt and the worm.

The sea was perfectly placid ; the air
was still without wind ; the moon had now
risen, and seemed like a friend in the sky.
In Santa Tarsilla no one had awakened ; all
was still. She was safe, and her errand was
done.

When at length the boat reached the
place on the sands where the low myrtles
and rosemary grew well-nigh to the edge of
the sea — the place where Saturnino had sat
on the sand and cursed mankind and his
own soul — the lovely vermilion hue of
early daybreak in the Maremma was slowly
spreading over the heavens.

She sprang into the water, and with
infinite tenderness and solemn care drew the
boat with its freight upon the shore, amidst
the sea-stocks and the samphire.

Then she dragged her weary feet over
the three miles of heath that lay between
her and the Etruscan tomb. She went down
into the grave, stirred the old mule from his
slumber, and placed his pack-saddle on his
back ; followed by Leone, she led him by
the bridle to the shore. She was now so
fatigued that her limbs shook under her, and
her head swam. But she pursued her way.

Teaching the edge of the waves, she

drew out the coffin from its shelter beneath
the shrubs, raised it with great difficulty onto
the pack-saddle and fastened it there ;
then once more, with her hand on the
mule's bridle, and with the dog beside her
silent and subdued, she went back, now
not alone, to the grave of the kings.

As she went — the mule patiently bearing
the burden of the dead mistress who had fed
and tended him for twenty years, rendering
his owner this last sernce ere he, too,
should fall away into the uselessness of age,
into the darkness of death — Musa looked back
once at the open sea.

The rose of dawn was all above her
head, the waters lay wide and peaceful in
the sweet mysterious light.

Her heart was full.

^ Surely she must be glad,' she thought ;
'she Avill be with us, and she will know
that I did not forget.'

I HE removal of Joconda's body from
its grave was never noticed by
the sacristan of Santa Tarsilla, or
by any one of lier neighbours.
No one ever went nigh that rough space of
ground under the sea wall. They had done
with her when they had buried her. Alien
the torch of Andreino had flared itself out,
the last rite of remembrance had been finished
for ever.

Santa Tarsilla was like the greater
world that lay around outside its desolate
plains and swamps.

That girl is a base one,' said the neighbours
; ' never so much as a wooden cross
has she set above the grave, or a two-soldo
print of a saint has she hung above it ! '

They knew she had gone to live away
on the moors ; where, they were not sure ;
it was a matter of indifference. They had
got the money, and had torn each other
well-nigh to pieces over it ; they were
readier to forget her than to recall her. If
she had come back she midst have demanded
some clear account of their alleged
claims, and to satisfy her would have been
awkward. The landlord, or rather his
steward, for the landlord was a gay noble,
far away, came and looked about the
house, and affirmed that he had a title to a
sear's rental, and sold the sticks of fiirni-
tm-e, and the pots and pans, the mattress
on which Joconda had lain every night till
she had slept on it her last sleep, and the
porridge-pot from which she had given the
child of Saturnino her first bit and sup.

The landlord was far away ; the steward
pocketed the proceeds of the sale, though
Joconda had paid her rent beforehand, as
every tenant does in Italy ; and he took
credit to himself, as he conversed with the
people, that he did not find the girl out, and
make her render him up the mule. So an
honest life went out under the smirch of
calumny, as a sweet-smelling pine-cone goes

out ill smoke when it is thrown on a coke
fire.

In Santa Tarsilla the August weather
was hot with the cruel, unchanging, misty
heat that breeds all manner of disease from
the waters and the earth, and which is only
good for the lecherous vine that strangles
the maples it clings to, and lives on to steal
the soul out of man by and by, and vines are
there none in Marerama.

After the momentary excitation following
on Joconda's death and legacy, the few
inhabitants returned to the dull, dropsical
apathy in which they were wont to pass
their lives. The girl was somewhere on
the moors, and Andreino's boat was missing
one night from its mooring by the mole,
though replaced the next ; but it was no
concern of theirs. Curiosity consents to close
its unwinking e3^es when interest sings its
lullaby.

Old Andreino had, indeed, spasms of the
pain of conscience, for in his way he had
been fond of Musa, and had a regard for
the woman of Savoy. But he never sought
for her. Nay, if he had not been ashamed
to put up such a prayer to his saint, he
would have entreated S. Andrea to grant

him never to see her face again, since he felt
that the rebuke and the reproach of those
magnificent jewel-Hke eyes would be very
hard to bear, and he remembered how
strong her wrist was, and if it should please
her to belabour him with one of this own
oars he would be as a rush in the grasp of
the reed-cutter. And when his conscience
pricked him, he felt that he had behaved
not nobly ; and he was sorry for his conduct
; for, after all, the women had hustled
him so that he had not been able to get one
single coin that had rolled out of the pitcher.

'I might just as well have stood up for
her,' he thought woefully ; ' and after all
she might in time have come to think of
our little Landing. I was too quick with
her, that is the truth ; and then those hags
came in between us with their screeching —
well, the Saints grant me not to see her
face ! '

He was terribly afraid lest he should
see her. When he sat on the mole smoking
his pipe as the shadows lengthened, he
scanned anxiously the open sea and the low
shore in fear lest he should behold the figure
of Musa coming between him and the
evening sky.

But the days and the weeks and the
months went by, and she never came back
to Santa Tarsi.

One night Santa Tarsilhi, which never
hardly heard any news at all (the only news-sheet
in the place being the priest's copy of
the Voce della Veritas), was a little stirred out
of its feeble, feverish drowsiness by hearing
that the escaped galley-slave Saturnino Mas-tarn
had been captured afresh : taken by the
carabineers after a fierce fight, having been'
discovered as he was hiding in a wine-shop
in the hamlet of Saturnia, whose owner*,
a widow woman, had gone into Orbetello
to sell some Etruscan ornaments and an
Etruscan crown of oak leaves to a goldsmith.

The woman's poverty, and her halting
,story to the goldsmith, had roused the
suspicions of the police, and the carabineers,
entering her house by force, had shot down
Saturnino through the keyhole of a door,
and had seized him, after being crushed by
his arms and rent with his seeth where he
lay shot on the ground, as though he were a
beast of prey they were driving out of its
lair.

Wounded and disabled, but not so greatly
as to be thought in peril of his life, the

once famous brigand lead been borne to the
casemates of Orbetello, thence to go back
to his doom on Gorgonaa. So the pale,
emaciated, fever-shaken coastguards said one
night, standing about on the mole, and
smoking their rank tobacco.

More than fourteen years had gone since
the name of Saturnino had been at once the
pride and the terror of Mar em ma, and the
legends of him had faded off the minds of
the people, as the frescoes of their churches
faded in the damp of ages. Yet when they
heard his name ai^ain — that name which
had been as a trumpet-call, as an incantation,
as the telling of the king-stag in the
forest to his herd — even the sickly women
lifted their heads, even the palsied men took
their pipes from their mouths : ' he was a
man ! ' they said softly, under their breath.

The mountain robber always bewitches
the fancy of the multitude, and the robbery
which only strikes at the rich always seems
a sort of rough justice to the poor : the
argument of the bandit is the argument of
the socialist couched in simpler language.

Beneath their subjugation by that witchery
of adventure and of defiance, which allure
the imagination of the populace, there is

always, also, this resentful thought — he is
condemned, this bold marauder who carries
his life in hand, whilst the sleek poltroons,
the thieves in broadcloth and fine linen, the
Rabbi of commerce, stalk abroad through
the tens of thousands they have duped or
ruined, untouched by law, denounced by
any wrath of earth or wrath of heaven. The
preference of the multitude may be unsound
morality, but it has a wild justice and a
rude logic at its base.

Santa Tarsilla once more lamented for
Saturnino. It was of the same mind with the
mob of Orbetello, which, could it have got
at the woman whose stupidity had cost him
his liberty, would have made her rue that
ever she had been born.

In like manner all the villages and the
towns in Maremma mourned for him ; feeling
pity and pain for the old eagle of their
rocks who had broken loose from his cage
only to be trapped afresh. He had once
been the glory of Maremma ; the country
was hurt in its own pride to think that their
hero was dealt with like any mean cut-purse
of the cities.

Even to little San Lionardo the tidings
of his sad fate travelled ; travelled by the

mouth of a senate ; that is, a go-between,
who negotiates with the farmers or shepherds
who sell cattle, and the butchers or
breeders who buy their.

Owners and buyers would be much
better served if they did their own negotiations
without the middleman ; but Italy is
the land of go-betweens, in commerce as in
love, and these men swarm over the land
and fill their money-bags not ill nor slowly.

This one, riding about the moors in the
evening time, viewing herds and flocks, had
business which took him to San Lionardo ;
a little white washed place lying on the
amethyst and pearl-grey of the hills like a
humble sea-shell on a grand table of pietro
dura and mosaic.

San Lionardo never knew anything
unless by some rare stray visit of a pedlar
or of a dealer ; it had very few dwellers in
it, and had not even a church or a priest.
When any Avere wedded or buried in the
hamlet they had to go up miles above,
along the road that wound over the bare
face of the stone mountain, where every
tree and shrub had been felled, and the sun
scorched the rock, that had not the shade of
even a leaf or a blade of grass,

VOL. I. T

These little white hamlets and towns of
Italy glisten all over her long, low, mountain
sides, their church towers red roofed with
tiles, or brown With wooden belfry, or
pointed with the air perched statue of a
saint in their midst, and not seldom around
them the circle of broken walls which tells
the tale of their ancientness and of their
bygone wars. Oftentimes they are old as
Eome itself; classic as Tusculum ; full of
memories as the foundations of Troy ; but
no one comes to them. They are little,
lonely, humble places now, far out of the
highways of men ; and, save their spinning-women,
and their hinds and herdsmen, and
their priest, they shelter no living thing.
When winter comes, they are severed by
unbridged torrents even from other villages
that lie along the same line of hills ; and upto
their heights in the snow, or in the heat,
no traveller ever wanders.

There is something quaint, pathetic,
touching, in the lives that begin and end in
these solitary places ; the hamlet is the
nation of its people, and the church tower
to them is the centre of the world. The
great plains lie beneath them, and often
from their walls the sea is visible, but the

cities and the seas of the world are nought
to them ; their history les in Pippa's plaiting,
in Sancho's bridal, in the birth of
children, in the huckster's price for wool
and linen. They are peaceful lives ; simple,
archaic, close-clinging about tradition, more
innocent than most lives are ; when they
are no more on the face of the mountains
men will be sadder, and earth will be the
poorer.

Into San Lionardo the sense came this
day, and, drinking his thin red wine at
the tavern door, told the few people of the
hamlet how the brigand had been captured,
away there in Orbetello. There was a little
fellow there who heard, while his goats and
he were lying in the shade of the house
wall.

The little fellow was Zefferino, whom his
village called Zirlo, who had taken his
goats up to the hills out of the heat, and
who listened as he lay in the shade on the
stones.

When he could take his flock again
on to the lower lands, in the greyness
of dawn, which is the freshest hour at this
season, he lost no time in descending the
mountain side and making for the moor,

T 2

until he came to broad pools, laden with
golden and white water-lies, and cliffs of
sandstone broken by strata of palombino, of
malign, and of travertine.

There he whistled like the thrush.

Via ! ' cried the voice of a girl from
beneath his feet, and presently the face and
throat of Musa raised themselves from out of
the acanthus and alterius and enchanter's
nightshade that grew about the entrance
of the tomb. She lifted him up a little
brown earthenware can ; he took it and
milked one of his ewes, and handed the can
back to her full of milk. She had been up
an hoi: ; her brilliant face was like a flower
in its freshness, for she bathed herself in the
sea every daybreak ; her hair was brushed
back in its massive undulations and just
touched her throat, as Joconda had always
kept it ; her clothes were still of the linen-cloth
Joconda had spun.

She took the milk and gave him a little
copper coin, and came up with a piece of
black bread in her hand, and ate the bread
and drank the milk, sitting on a stone
amongst the wild clematis, and sharing her
meal with Leone.

She had made friends with Zefferino ;

there was a certain distance between them
always because he was a little afraid of her,
and she was a little suspicious of him. He had
been forced to swear to her that he would
tell no one how or where she dwelt, and
having sworn this, he shared her confidence.
One thing alone she never told him, that
she had brought the coffin of Joconda there,
and had laid it in an inner chamber of the
painted tombs.

He was of use to her.

She cut the lake-rush and the chair-maker
's-rush and wove them into rude
matting and into frail baskets, and he sold
these to San Lionardo folk for a few centimes.
She had learned many uses of edible
roots and cryptogamia from Joconda, and
gathered those, and he sold them also ; he
brought lier flax and she spun it ; he brought
her straw and she plaited it ; when his goats
were on the hills and his smaller brother
minded them, he had run to and fro on her
errands. Busy and fond of money, which
his father never let him handle, he was glad
to go between moorland and mountain on
these missions, and could cheat her comfortably
with a childish glee that was united
with a shrewd self-interest.

He was only a little fellow, living, with
his goats and his reed-pipe and his naked
feet, the most sylvan and pastoral life in the
world ; but he knew the worth of money
as well as the bailiff adding up figures in
his fat note-book, or the innkeeper selling
watered draughts to thirsty wayfarers.

Zefierino was a pretty little curly-headed
boy, with a sweet voice, a sunny smile,
and limbs like a child-Bacchus ; he was
affectionate and he was very innocent, but
all the same he knew how to lie and he
knew how to cheat, his round laughing eyes
open and candid all the while, and his
mouth smiling.

Why not ? Had he not seen the wine-carriers
bore the hole in the cask and suck
the wine out with a straw, and sell such a
drink to anybody on the road ? Had he
not always heard his father, bartering with
the cattle-dealer, say, ' And what will there
be as marcia for me ? ' which meant, ' Hoar
much will you let me rob my friend if I
induce him to sell you this beast? '

So he himself robbed this strange
maiden, of whom he was half frightened
always ; yet he loved her and admired her
in his half-hearted way, and kept her secret

for her, because he thought if others knew
that she lived here down in the ground they
might do 3vhat she wanted, and so he would
lose the taste of her pratajoli huoni ^ and
blackberries and broth, and all those centimes
that got him bread and polenta and
salt wish and rude sweetmeats, such as okl
Deaneira sold in San Lionardo, sitting at the
stall under the battered Madonna in her
iron cage, against the old watch-tower wall,
that looked down from the hills on moor
and sea.

Are you happy here ? ' he asked her
now, sitting with his legs drawn up amongst
the purple loosestrife, all dry with the ]past
summer heat ; watching lier as lie ale, while
his goats strayed about, cropping what they
would, the forfeited Huns that ravage the
mountains and the forests and lay them bare
as with fire, so that nothing will ever spring
again where their little hoofs have trodden
and their little teeth have browsed.

Happy ! ' echoed Musa ; the word
sounded strangely. ' I do not know. I am
alone ; that is always good.'

She had never heard of Chateaubriand,
who wrote above his house in the depth of

^ Ayaricus campestris.

the Breton solitudes, a Vahri des hommes.
But the spirit that moved him to write it
was in her.

Zirlo tilted himself over on his back.

He was a child, so he let the reply he
had had go by without compliment. He
said instead :

I forgot to tell you, Saturnino is taken.*

Taken ! '

She left off eating and stared at him,
with a light in her gaze and a flush on her
cheek. ,

'Yes. On the coast. A woman was
selling his gold things for him, and they shot
him down in the Orbetellano.'

She leapt to her feet, her eyes flashed, her
whole face lit up with exultation.

Selling my gold — their gold ! They
took him so ? I am glad ! I am glad ! '

It was not yours,' said Zefferino, who
knew from her what the galley-slave had done.

'No. It was ^/mns. It was sacred. He
stole it ; he is well served. If it had been
my own I would not have minded ; but a

thing that belonged to the dead ! oh, it

was vile, vile ! And I wronged Joconda
that I might feed him ; I left her alone to
return to him, and she died ; I am glad

indeed that they have got him. Are you
certain it is true ? '

Oh, yes,' said the little lad ; ' they eliot
him down as they shoot the roebuck here,
and took him ; he was alive, though badly
hurt. He fought like a devil, but there was
the whole troop of the carabineers all there.
They do say that another one, who got away
from Gorgonaa with him, is loose still, hiding
somewhere in the hills, but about that I do
not know much. But there is a reward for
anyone who sees him, and I mean to look
about ; I might get the money as well as
another.'

I am glad he is taken,' said Musa, unheeding
; ' I am glad. He robbed them and
he was false to me.'

Zirlo shuddered. Had he not himself
cheated her to go and nibble at mother
Deaneira's stall?

'You are savage,' he said with a little
whimper and tremor. ' That poor soul was
a brave man they say, and never did any
sin except lightening rich men's purses ; he
used to live upon the mountains, right away
there as high as the stars are, and never
touched a poor man ; they all say so, — only
the rich '

And is not the gold of the rich their own
as well as the crust of the poor ? ' said Musa
with scorn in her low tones. ' He was a
thief; a thief; and a traitor. I sheltered
lira, and he robbed the dead. He was a
thief and a traitor.'

Zirlo rolled over and hid his face in the
green bichierini,^ pretending to catch a lizard.
He had gone back into the tombs the very
day after the galley-slave had robbed them,
conquering his abject fear of the place forsake
of the gold toys and the gold lamps
that he too would have taken if he could
only have found them.

'And I should not have been a thief,'
thought Zirlo, with national sophistry instinctive
in him. ' 1 should not have been a
thief ; they belonged to nobody ; they were
as much mine as hers.'

Yet not for worlds would he have had
her know that he had ever crept into the
graves on any such errand.

He was a thief and a traitor. And he
was taken as he sold the gold ? I am glad,'
she said once more, and her face was
exultant, sombre, almost cruel.

The fate of the robber of the tombs

^ Zichefi jyyaidatus.

seemed to her so just ; it was almost
beautiful in its inexorable and instant
justice.

You are savage,' said Zirlo.

Why not ? ' she answered ; to be savage
was right enough ; it was what they
called the boar, when he fought for his
own poor life, and his own lair in the
thickets.

The boy said nothing. He was frightened.
If ever she knew, he thought, of those centimes
?

Musa rose, leaving the rest of her bread
uneaten, and dropping it between the paws
of the dog.

He wronged my shelter and betrayed
me,' she said once more. ' He has met a
right fate. Zirlo, drive your goats further
on ; my mule needs this forage.'

Zirlo rose and mutely obeyed.

His heart was beating. He wished that
the polenta and buccal that lead tempted
him, and that old Deaneira's luscious muscat
wine that was like the honey of thyme-fed
bees, had all been down the throats of the
people of San Lionardo instead of down his
own.

'If ever slice know, she will beat me

black and blue, or throw me with one hand
into the sea,' thought the little sinner
miserably.

She went down into the tomb, and brought
the mule up to pasture while there was still
some coolness and shade ; then she again
descended, lit her little fire and put on her
pot with fish and herbs to stew by noontide,
and took up her distaff and went and sat in
the open air once more.

She was oppressed and absorbed by the
tidings of the galley-slave's capture. She was
glad ; yes, she was glad ; but the gladness
began to glow less hotly in her : she thought
of the wretched homeless fugitive as he had
sat on the sands after her rescue of him : for
what had she rescued him ? — only for fresh
torture.

All was still around her in the hush of
early day: the only sound vas the insect
life that is never still on those moors and
marshes night and day. The first heavy
rains of September had fallen and the refreshed
earth was growing once more green,
and the fainted leaves arose and stood out in
the clear air. The snakes were sorry the
drought was gone, but all other living things
were glad.

Zirlo, who had sent his goats farther away,
strayed back and stood looking at old Cecco,
the mule.

He is of no use to you ? ' he said
timidly

No use ; no.'

Would you not sell him ? ' lie said more
timidly too, thinking of the sense.

I would not sell him.'

You would get money for him — much
money '

I do not want money.'

But you want to eat.'

I get enough to do that.'

He is old '

The more reason to keep him by me ;
old things fare ill with strangers.'

Zirlo eyed the mule wistfully, and
went away a little sulky and a good deal
afraid.

'What will you do in the winter?' he
said fretfully. ' I cannot leave the goats to
run your en-ands in the winter. Sometimes
it snows, too, and I am always very busy.
You must go up and live in San Lionardo ;
that is what you must do.'

I shall not do that,' said Musa ; ' I shall
live where I am. You will do my errands

ill whiter and in summer both when you
want a bowl full of soup or a handful of
mushrooms.'

Then Zefierino cried.

He did not like her to fancy him
selfish.

For if she once think me so,' he thought,
she will begin to doubt, and to count the
centimes.'

But Musa did not count the centimes.

When the heat of noon came, she took
the mule down into the painted chambers
of the dead, and sat there herself. Zirlo
came too ; — a pretty little quaint figure, a
childish Faunus ; — and asked her for a bowl
of soup. Then together they ate, using the
black earthenware cups and platters that had
been strewn on the floor of the tombs : cups
and platters made two thousand years before,
made for the banquets of the dead, and perhaps
profaned by their young lips, yet innocently
so.

Chapter Xiy.

|0 the days passed by and the

weeks and the months, and the

i^2 life was always the same there.

The death of Joconda had left an awful
blank of silence and loneliness around her.
In its desolation she realised all that the
dead woman had been to, and had done for,
her, and a great remorse entered into her.
She had been too thankless, she had been
indifferent, unthinking, hard of heart, so she
thought ; and she would have given her life
to have those brown, wrinkled, rough hands
in hers for one hour.

Apart from this great sorrow she was
happy in her wild, lonely life on the moor.
She had no one to say her yea or nay. She
was as free as the wild boar himself; and

the wholesome winds of the west blew
against her face, and nigh at hand was the
green autumn of Maremma.

So she took up her domicile in earnest
there, and ceased to feel desolate.

The jewellery was all that Saturnino had
robbed from the tombs, and the utensils of
bronze and of pottery served all her daily
needs. Untroubled by any knowledge of
their history and antiquity, yet vaguely
moved to reverent use of them because they
belonged to these dead owners of the place,
whom she revered, she took the bronze
oinochoe with her to the water spring, she
set her herb-soup on the embers in the
bronze situla, she made her oaten bread in
the embossed phials. she drank the broth out
of the painted depas, shaped like that cup
of the sun in which the Python Slayer once
passed across the sea. She used all these
things reverently, washed them with careful
hands, and never thought they were dishonoured
thus.

The Typhon frowned at her from the
ceiling of the tomb, and the Dii Involution
turned their impassive faces on her every
time she passed out of the stone doors or
combed the steep stair passage to the

open air ; but she knew nothing of their
dread attributes, and though they awed her
they did not fill her with any painful fear.
She did not understand them ; there was
no one to explain to her the meanings of the
paintings, and carvings, and the letters on the
walls ; but she grew into a great and tender
sympathy with them which was in itself a
sort of comprehension.

Even of the terrible shapes she had no
fear ; the dread winged boy with hoary locks
of age, that the Etruscans feared as higher
than the gods, had no terror in his frown
for her ; and the veiled divinities who sat
beside the inner door of the warrior's tomb,
who for the dead had been tyrants of fate,
mystic, inscrutable, omnipotent, grew to be to
her as playmates and as friends. The very
twihfifht and hush and solemn sadness of this
place were but so much added sweetness to
her. And in her there seemed to have been
always that melancholy, and that obedience
to destiny, which were the characteristics of
the Etruscan religion, even when most they
loved the lyre and the lotus garland and the
brimming rhyton.

Here was her refuge, her palace, her
place of sanctity and dreams; Jure the

VOL. I. U

native unconscious poetry and passion in her
found a likeness to themselves, a consolation
for the unlovely life that seemed to pollute
the sea and shore in the only group of human
habitations that she knew, and which hurt her
without her ever tracing the why or wherefore.


She managed to live very well ; her
wants were few, and the moors supplied all
save one or two of her needs, such as oil to
burn, and flax to spin, and hens to keep for
eggs, and these Zefferino brought to her,
being paid for them with scrupulous punctuality
out of the two silver pieces that she
possessed.

She found she could cut the wild oats in
plenty for the old mule, which was all she
needed herself, since she could live on the
bread she so made, and she could make
enough any day in the year for herself and
the dog.

It is wonderful how few are the actual
wants of a human life that is far away from
all artificial stimulus and necessities.

She was up as soon as the white gleam
of dawn showed above the barren mountains
of the eastern sky-hne, and, long before the
heavens there grew warm with that sunrise

flush which is as bright and deep a rose as
any oleander-flower, she said her Latin
prayer at daybreak beside the coffin of
Joconda, as she lead been used to do by
her side, tended the mule and the doit,
baked her rude loaves, and swept over and
burnished her stone chambers and her bronze
utensils with those northern habits of
cleanliness and order in which the woman
of Savoy had reared her.

Then she was free to roam all the day
long, and go out upon the sea as she might
choose ; every day she dipped and dived and
swam like any gannet. She bathed twice
daily, either in fresh water or salt water,
with as much zest as her winged comrades ;
and she kept her thick hair, that clustered
like the bronze curls of a Greek bust, and
all her simple apparel clean and in .order,
obeying all that dead Joconda had enjoined
on her as her daily habits, with as implicit an
obedience as ever on that soil the Etruscans
had shown to the commands of Takes.

That was her fashion of repentance for
many a moment of petulance, and many an
hour of wilful indifference, which were to her
memory as the sting of the spine of the
yucca is to the flesh.

u 2

Now and then, faintly from a distance,
the bells of some hamlet or of some monastery
would ring over the plains, and be wafted by
the wind to her ear; now and then some
shot would sound from some little lagoon, or
some thicket of box elder, and wild olive,
where the strangers were slaying the natives
of the marsh and the moor ; this was all she
heard of the living world, and she desired to
learn no more. She lived with the dead ; and
something of their cold repose, their ineffable
indifference, their passionless defiance of
mankind, had come upon her and entered
her soul.

She had quite forgotten she was
young. She had never known that she was
beautiful.

She was not afraid of anything ; she
had the courage of Saturnino in her blood,
and with it the superb innocence of a child's
soul that has never been dimmed by the
breath of folly.

Whilst it was summer weather even shepherds
and herdsmen were never seen ; the
Hocks were on the mountain, the harvests had
been reaped at midsummer, the chase was
forbidden by the law ; all Maremma was as
silent as the heart of the Share. Sometimes,

against the law, which is utterly defied
in this respect all over the country, ran
would come over the scorching moor at
eventide to set their fell net, the square
paratoio with its fettered call-bird, and would
watch all night at peril of their lives from the
swamp-gases, and at daybreak would carry
away their poor fluttering struggling prey.
But even these were few and far between,
because the fever and ague of the marshes
had terrors enough to daunt and conquer
greed.

In summer she and Zefferino had these
moors to themselves, and even Zefferino had
been more alarmed at the heat and the fever
than she, and stayed for days together upon
the wooded spur of his native mountain,
where the miasma seldom reached.

So the long days went by, one by one,
and were not long to her ; and at noontide
she slept soundly and dreamlessly within the
cool solitude of the tombs, safe as a mole in
his castle, refreshed as a coot on the breast
of the pool. In the short nights, above all
when they were moonlit, she did not care to
sleep ; she sat at the entrance of the graves
with the white dog like a carved marble
thing at her feet, and watched the sylvan

life that stirs at dark flit over the face of
the sky or the shadows of the earth. She
could not see the sea, the growth of the low
woodland was too thick, but she could hear
the surf breaking on the shore, and often
when a steamer was passing, or a brig coasting,
or a fishing barque standing in under
the wind, she could hear the beat of paddles
or the rattling of halyards or the voices of
fishermen calling to each other.

The sea was near enough to give the sweet
sense of its strong companionship, and if she
climbed the sandstone only a little way and
overlooked the darksome stretch of myrtle
and oak scrub, she could, at any moonlit hour,
see it sparkling underneath the stars, flowing
away into the infinite space of the clouds and
the night, phosphorescent, radiant, hushed —
the black fantastic crags of Elba borne upon
its waters like a barque.

So the end of the summer passed with her
untroubled except by that sense of ingratitude
towards her lost friend which lay like a
stone on her heart. Whenever she knelt
by the coffin she said at the close of her
prayers always : ' Dear and good one, forgive
me. I was blind ! '

The need of companionship never

weighed on her. She was iincouscioiisly
happy in the air, m the liberty, in the
delightful sense of heahhfiil and untrammelled
life.

Her mind busied itself with its own
vague imaginations, and her mode of life
was filled with that sombre mystery which
she loved as the Etruscan race had loved it.
If she had been shut in the garret or the
factory-room of a city, this temper would
have become morbid and dangerous in her ;
but, braced by the daily physical labours of
her life, and by the abundant and vigorous
exercise of all her bodily powers, it only
served to give a solace, and a sort of sublimity,
to a fate which would have seemed to
many hard and friendless. The moorlands
and the moorland sepulchres were made for
her and she for them.

The visits of little Zefferino kept her
from that absolute solitude which in time
hurts the mind and distorts it. He was a
very human little thing; greedy, playful,
timid, kindly when it cost him nothing, most
kindly when he gained most by it ; a complete
little epitome of humanity clothed in
shaggy goat's hair.

She grew fond of the child and was in-diligent

to him with that indulgence of the
strong to the weak which is often misunderstood,
abused, and preyed upon by the feeble.
She knew that he told lies by the hundred,
and pilfered when he could, and had no more
real heart in him than the red and white
pumpkin that keeps the beauty of its quaint
shell whilst the summer sun has sucked up
all its pulp inside it. Yet he was loving and
lovable in his own way, and Musa, who
thought he loved her, was glad to see him
always as she was glad to see the birds and
flowers.

They were more truly her companions,
however, than he. She was always in the
air, except when the sudden and frequent
storms of the Maremma drove her perforce
into the shelter of the sepulchre, although
the ' bolt-hurling gods ' of the tempests had
no terror for her as they had had for the
Tyrrhenian multitude who had seen divine
wrath in every electric flash, and heard
imprecation and prophecy in every roll of
thunder that echoed from the Apennine to
the Ciminian hills.

The white straight rain, the slanting windblown
showers, the blackness of hurrying
storm-charged cloud, the strange yellow light

that made the leaves look like foliage cast in
copper and the skies like a vault of brass,
the ominous hiss and shriek of the wind that
made the slow buffaloes gallop fast with fear,
and filled the air with the hurrying wings of
frightened birds, all these where to her only
as the sound of trumpet and the smell of
powder to the war-horse. The storms were
fierce and swift, and rent like a veil the
drowsy languor and heat of the usual atmosphere.
She would see them coming
over the sea from the west at sunset, or
gathering above the southern horizon,
where the Eoman Campagna and the Pontine
marshes were steaming with vapour.

Wlien the autumn arrived, she was undismayed
by the prospect of winter there,
although she felt afraid that it would be
more difficult to keep out of sight of men in
the season when the waterfowl and the
roebuck and the boar were hinted from
dawn to twilight in their native haunts.

At this time of the year, too, the flocks
came down from the mountains, footsore,
travel-tired, with the sliepherdandhis woman
and children behind them footsore also, and
the white dogs that were kin to Leone running
among the bleating sheep. She saw these

travelling tribes more than once; dusty-jaded
crowds moving slowly over the marsh
and moor. The shepherds are solitary and
sullen people for the most part, and instead
of a crook they often have a carbine. She
avoided them and let them pass on southward
to the rich low pastures, afraid that if they
knew of her retreat they might rob her of it.
As little did she like the hunters who harried
the boar in his brake and shot the wildfowl
in the marshes. What harm did those wild
boars do, living on the roots of the earth and
the acorns, or the lovely green-throated drake
of the swamp floating his little day away
amongst the weeds and lilies ?

Except these, there were not many newcomers
to fear, her own immediate portion in
the Etruscan kingdom was so overgrown with
thickets and low timber and matted parasites
that walking was almost impracticable, and
a bill-hook was needed at almost every step,
and the quagmires and swamps that separated
it from the vast grain fields to the
north deterred all save the boldest and the
hardiest from adventuring there.

It never occurred to her that her life
would alter. Of love she knew nothing,
and marriage, when she thought about it.

seemed to her, as she had said to Andreino,
an unequal and unjust division of toil.

Her only fear of men was lest, if they
knew of her beloved tombs, they might
drive her out and rifle them of the bronze
and the pottery as the galley-slave had done
of the gold. It was for that reason alone
that she scanned the horizon with the keenness
of the roebuck, and fled at any sound of
steps into the shelter of the thorny coverts
with the self-preserving instinct of the mountain
hare.

The chill season was at hand, but she was
not much in awe of it ; she was only afraid
lest those sportsmen whose guns echoed over
the lonely wastes, or the labourers from the
north who passed by on their way to level
some remnant of sacred wood or of historic
forest, should see her and wonder and talk.

She grew learned in all the ways of
nature, and, could .she have told or written
all she saw, would have lent much to the
world's knowledge of fauna and of flora. In
proportion as she fled from man so she grew
familiar with and endeared to the beasts and
birds that filled the moorland with innocent
life, and with as deep an interest as ever the
Etruscan priests had watched them, to forecast

from them augury of the future, did she
watch in awe and ecstasy that miracle —
perhaps of all the greatest miracle — of
nature, the migration of the winged nations
of the air.

She did not know what these flights
meant, but she observed and pondered on
them with intense curiosity and interest as
the winged tribes changed their feeding
grounds, and came, and went ; the northern
birds arriving as the songsters of the south
fled.

A triangle of silvery grey would float
slowly down the yellow light of closing day ;
it was the phalanx of the storks passing over
the country without resting there ; wisely
distrusting the land beyond all others fatal
to all birds. Less wise, though usually so
cautious in his ways, there flew here in large
bands the bright and gracious lapwing from
the frozen canals of the Low Countries and
the German forests covered deep in snow.

In a waving line, graceful against the
sky as the sway of a reed against the water,
a band of the glossy ibis would go by on
their aerial voyage to Egypt or to India.
The crows sailed over her head from Switzerland
or Sweden, not pausing, or, if pausing at

all, dropping on the moor for a few days
of rest only, and going straight towards
the Soudan or the Blue Nile. The ever-wandering
quails fell, in autumn as in
spring, panting and exhausted in millions
on the beach and turf, so strangely ill-fitted
by nature for the long, almost perpetual,
flight that nature impelled them to
undertake.

There would break upon the silence of the
moors at night a sound as of flames crackling
and hissing over dry turf and through
dry wood ; and it was but the noise of a
mile long troop of wild ducks coming from
the Polar seas to the Tuscan lagoons.

The kittiwake and the tarn and the
storm swallow forsook their Finnish fjords
and Greenland rocks to come and fish in
the blue Ligurian waves. The graceful and
vivacious actodroma, and the trustful sanderling,
alighted here in simple good faith to
escape the death grip of the Arctic ice. The
cheery godwits settled upon sea or sand, and
looked like clouds of silvery smoke touched
by red rays of flame. The shore was
peopled with the feathered exiles of the
north, whilst, inland, the common buzzards
arrived with the first gold of autumn to wage

war on rats and snakes in honest open
combat ; the superb merganser spread his
bright plumage to the sun and surf of this
unfamiliar shore ; and the sea-mew less confidently
trusted himself to the south-west
sands, where the aloe, and the hesperus, and
many an unknown thing growing there,
startled him as he made for the inland
pools and streams. The laughing-mew and
the stream-swallow sought the shelter of the
rushes and the reeds, and most of the family
of the gulls were to be seen upon the wing
above the shallows where sea and river
blended. More rarely, and alone, might perchance
be seen the northern oyster-catcher
(misnamed) hunting his worms and tiny fish
in the shallows of the shore, meeting perchance
the merry turnstone bent on the
same quest, but never wetting his slender
feet more than by contact with wet pebbles
he was compelled to do. Whilst, by the
side of the polar piscatricides, with their
plumage of snow-white or grey, there were
along the line of the breaking waves, and
oftener beside the shallows of the swamps,
slender and lofty shapes of radiant rose
colour, bending their slim long necks, lithe
as wands of willow, or standing motionless

and dreaming in the wintry sunshine on the
sands ; they were the flamingoes.

Some of them live all the year round
here, as in Sicily or Sardinia, but these are
not numerous ; in large numbers they only
arrive in the cold weather, to depart on the
wings of the first March wind.

Though they are so shy of human eyes,
she had seen them ever since she had been
old enough to come here, and she had
always fancied that they were half flower
half bird ; no heart of a June rose or
cluster of rose-laurel blossoms has ever more
lovely crimsons, more delicate flush of
colour, than the pA6J??2zc6>^^^rw5 roses of
Egypt and of Asia. Flying, the flamingoes
are like a sunset cloud ; walking, they are
like slender spirals of flame traversing the
curling foam. When one looks on them
across black lines of storm-blown reeds on
a November morning in the marshes, as
their long throats twist in the air with the
flexile motion of the snake, the grace of a
lily blown by wind, one thinks of Thebes, of
Babylon, of the gorgeous Persia of Xerxes,
of the lascivious Egypt of the Polemics.

The world has grown grey and joyless in
the twilight of age and fatigue, but these

birds keep the colour of its morning. Eos
has kissed them.

Farther inland yet, the jays came, saddened
and stupid as all these little travellers
are when they first arrive in a strange
country, missing their dark pine forests of
Scandinavia, of Lithuania, of Thuringia.
With them there came the redwing, the
redstart, the redbreasts from the mountains,
and from further afield, the English and
French robin, dearest, cheeriest, brightest,
kindest of little birds, and even the robin
was sorrowful and timid at the first, though,
soon plucking up his gallant little spirit, he
sang upon a myrtle spray as gaily as on
his native hawthorn branch or apple bough
in Westmoreland or Calvados.

All these and many more she watched
as they came, singly, or in bands, according
to their habits, upon the chilly wind that
blew from their native north countries.

In the moorland ponds and the marsh
rivulets there were the persecuted coots with
Tier all the year round, the water-hens, too, in
their demure garb of olive-brown and grey,
and their brilliant relative the beautiful
porphyries, showing the sapphires and the
rubies of his feathers in all seasons, amidst

the white vapours of a wintry dawn as amidst
the gold of the pond-marigolds in midsummer
; and over all the land, all seasons
through, the red-legged partridges ran under
the cistus and rosemary they best love, and
the cushats, though their voices where mute,
stayed at home and braved the autumn
rains and winter sea-fogs that stretched to
the mountain's foot.

All these innocent and most lovely creatures
had cruel foes ; cruellest foe of all
the pitiless snarer or Sportsman who had no
better aim in his own miserable life than to
slaughter these lives that were so much
lovelier than his own.

But the moors are vast, and vast the
meadows virgin of the scythe, and vast the
labyrinths of forests and of undergrowth
stretching at the mountain's foot. There
was many a lagoon, where never other
voices than the birds' were heard ; there
was many a league of woodland, where the
thorns of the firebush and the sloe and the
tangle of matted vegetation made impenetrable
barriers to the greed of trappers.

When the boats came at night with the
lanterns to daze and bewilder the roosting
wild ducks, and the cowardly showers of

VOL. I. X

eliot fell like hail on the miresistmg myriads,
Musa could do nothing ; she could only
listen with throbbing heart and clenching
hands, and laugh aloud in derision to think
that men called the hill-fox a robber and the
falcon bird of prey. But when she found
the nets stretched across the pools, and the
paratoio set on the turf, and the setters of
these had gone away for the night, fearing
the deadly vapours of the soil, then she,
seeing these fell things at twilight, and not
being afraid, would wait and go without
sleep, and when the night was fully down,
and the invaders of the birds' kingdom had
prone to some distant knot of houses on the
hillside or the shore, or to some shepherd's
hut, she would work her hardest at the
snares, pulling up the stakes from the ground,
dragging the huge nets out of the water,
hacking down with her hatchet the poles,
and destroying all she could destroy of those
treacherous engines.

If the men had ever suspected her, if they
had ever returned before dawn and come
upon her at her work of demolition, they
would have shot her in all probability, as
they would have shot the poor birds, and
with no more scruple or remorse after it.

She knew that very well ; but her love of
the soft wild things of lagoon and woodland
was stronger than self-love, and the bold
blood that filled her veins was warm with
pleasure as she strained at the wood or the
cordage of the great traps closing in the
mouths of streams, or drawn round the
sleeping places of the unconscious palisades.

It was not often that she had the chance
of saving her feathered friends, for not very
often did the snares leave their prey, but
whenever the power came in her way she
made use of it, and whenever she saw ill-looking
fellows, strangers or natives, coming
in upon the territory which she regarded as
the birds' and beasts' and hers alone, she
followed them unseen, creeping under the
heather of the uplands, and the cane-brakes
of the swamps, to snatch their choice of
place, and foil their efforts if she could.

To a snarer of birds she would have had
no more mercy than he would have had to
her, if he had known what she was about ;
and she had almost as much scorn for the
so-called sportsmen, hiding amongst the
reeds to take the bright porphyries unawares,
or steering their boat through water strewn
with a thousand dead and dying coots.

X -2

Her watching of the sea and land birds,
and her care over them, made the absorbing
interest of her lonely life. Her wants were
so few that they were soon provided for, and
almost all the day long she could ]pass in the
open air ; like Borrow, she did not fear
native's clean bath, the kindly rai.' When
she went home dripping with water, she
changed her clothes, lighted a wood fire, and
was none the worse. Leone shook himself,
and slept after the rain, and so did she.

In that free life she grew still taller and
still stronger, slender and supple, and fit
model for a young Artemis, had any sculptor
been there to copy the fine and graceful
lines of her limbs in the modelling clay that
comes from Tiber.

She, like the flittermouse, passed the
winter there as tranquil as though beside
Joconda's hearth ; nay, more tranquil, for in
her old home the constraint of severe habits,
the enforced household labours, and the
squalor and the sickness of the people round
had been irksome and painful to her. Here
she was sole possessor of her painted chambers,
and without had the wide moors and
the blue sea to roam over as she would.

Even the sea was kind to her ; for one

night, when there was a great storm and she
sat beside her fire in the warrior's sepulchre,
Leone howling by the kennel tomb where
the Etruscan dog's allies lay, there was a
barque wrecked a mile or so down the
coast ; and when the weather cleared on the
Third days — for the white squalls of violent
wind and rain upon these waters usually last
three days — she went down to the beach
to see the sea, that was sobbing still like
a child after vain passion, and, washed up
upon the driftwood and the glass-wrack of
the rocks, she found a little boat bruised,
but still serviceable ; doubtless belonging to
the lost brig that had foundered with all
hands off the dark grim peaks of Monte
Argentaro.

It was flotsam and jetsam, and she took
it as a sea-gift.

It was light and shapely, and its two
oars were in it. She dumbly thanked God
for it ; having a real boat, for wjiat she
had made for herself was but an awkward
and unseaworthy tub, she felt as though
Savings had grown upon her shoulders. The
sea seemed to be all her own, as it had
seemed to the Tyrrhene pirates three thousand
years before to be theirs and none others.

She was as thankful as a dog ; she
dragged her treasure up over the rocks out
of the wet sand in which it was bedded bows
downward, and hid it in a little aperture she
knew of in the cliffs within a few yards of
the water.

With this boat for her use when she
would, she felt strong and free as any
osprey. It was another means of livelihood
also ; she could make a net, and catch a fish,
as well as any man of the sea hamlets ; in
the hill-villages they never tasted fish, their
few folk were too far off and too lazy by far
to drag their limbs a dozen miles down to
the beach at any time, and the shore folk
were too indolent and too feeble to go to
them. But she, who was neither idle nor
weak, determined to carry fish to the hovels
of the plains and hills if she were ever
pressed for hunger, and get their bread and
dead goat's flesh in return. So she said to
herself as she hauled up the boat over the
stones, though she would never take the lives
even of the fish if she could help it. And she
felt satisfied, having her future thus provided
for ; it seemed to her as if she coukl five
thus so easily all her days.

With the winter, she clothed herself in the

warm, thick, woollen clothes made of lamb's
wool that Jocouda had woven for lier ; and at
night, when rain, like the rain of the tropics,
poured on the sandstone rock that made her
roof, and was sweeping in sheets of water
over Maremma from mountain to sea, she
span at her wheel, as Tranquil had done
before her, by the low light of one oil wick
burning in the lofty candelabra whose like
lead charmed the delicate and lofty taste of
Sappho's Hellas.

Sometimes a snow-storm woidd sweep
over the moors and the sea ; sometimes the
broad lagoon, formed where the marsh waters
joined the salt pools in the sand, was one
mass of boiling, wind-lashed, turgid, yellow
froth ; sometimes thunder rolled and blue
lightning flamed above the bare peaks and
crags of the easterly mountains, and a darkness
that could be felt descended at noontide
on Maremma as on the land of the plagues ;
sometimes, rarest of all, there was the film of
frost on all the moors, and the terns and
shews had to tap with their bills at a sheet
of ice on their tarns and streams, and
fancied themselves back in their own Greenland
or Siberia.

But rough weather, and wet weather,

were the portion rather of autumn than of
winter, and for the most part the sun shone
above the Arctic birds that had come southward
for sheer, and upon the child of Saturnine
gathering the fallen wood off the moor,
or driving her little boat through surf and
spray. The winter-time was short — shorter
than counted by the solstice — for by the
turn of the new year the corn was springing
and covering, like a thin green cloud, all the
vast plains to the north ; and on the yet
vaster grass lands, where no foot of a ploughman
or hand of a mower was ever known,
under the gauze veil of the rime frost, the
bulbs of the wild crocus and the wild narcissus
began to feel their trustful way upward
through the earth like little children timid in
the dark, yet confident because they think
that God is near.

Then, in those still, starlit nights,
cleared by the magic wand of the frost till
all the lustrous sky seemed alive with
throbbing light, Musa would leave her
hearth and lamp and go up into the air,
and stand and look at the silent procession
of those distant worlds of which none had
ever told her anything.

She had no conception what they were.

She knew that fishermen and mariners
steered by them all night long, and that was
all she knew.

The gorgeous constellation of Perseus
hung above the sea, and over the weird
peaks of Elba the great star Aldebaran
burned ; the Golden Plough was driven on
its fiery way down the north-eastern heavens ;
above the great south moors, far down in
the purple night, where Rome was, there
flamed Orion, and straight above her head,
in the zenith, Auriga shone, holding in his
hand Zeta and Eta, the dreaded storm-ringers
of the Greeks. To her they had
neither name nor message, yet she would
stand and gaze at them for hours. Surely
they could not burn there only that ships
might steer ?

Her only idea of them was inspired by
the songs of the Maremmano people, which
call on Hesperia to help their loves as on
a living spirit, and hymn the star that has
an angel by its side, a young angel — ' ?/n'
angiolin ' — attending it always on its path
through the shining heavens ; a graceful
fancy, which took root as a fact in her
belief, so that she would gravely gaze upward
for hours, trying to see the winged servitors

of the constellations ; and sometimes she grew
angry with them, thinking, ' are there so many
angels, cannot they warn the tartane off the
shoals? cannot they stoop and let a light
shine on the sea when their stars are covered
and the boats go aground in the dark ? '

The planets and the stars were as great a
perplexity to her as the birds, and much
less consolation.

Every one knows (or at least every one
who takes thought of these things, which],
perhaps, is a small minority) that to see
birds in their own homes is difficult. The
nest of the blackhead is made so like in hue
to the thornbush it rests on, the nest of the
cisticola is woven so wisely amongst the
rushes of the waterside, the flight is so swift,
the vigilance is so great, the feathers are so
often so like the brown of the bark or the
grey-green of the sedges, that even the
quickest eye may see but little of them, and
even the gold of the oriole and the blue of
the magnificent chough may escape detection
in the shadows of the woods. But ^vitli
tenderness for them and patience they maybe
traced in their daily ways and wanderings,
and few lives repay attention to them
so delightfully as do the lives of the birds.

She was herself so much a native of the
woods, she was as motionless as the kingfisher
himself beside a stream, she was as
solitary and as wary of men as the woodpecker,
she was so heedful never to disturb
a nest, or startle a callow brood ; and as her
recompense she grew as acquainted and
familiar with the winged tribes as was ever
Audubon or Naumann. She had not their
knowledge, indeed, but she had more than
their love. When the naturalist fires on a
sanderling or a bunting, he may be a man of
science and culture, but he is no lover of
birds.

Musa knew very few even of the common
names of either the flowers or the
birds ; of their names in men's books she
knew not one, but she knew the look and
the season of every blossom that blew, and
she knew the haunts and the habits of most
of the singers, and the divers, and the
many creatures that made populous the
wastes around her, and at night could tell
by the manner of their lliglit whether the
barn-owl or the Athens Noctua went past
her, whether the wild-duck was going
through the shadows or the niulit-lovin^^-
plover.

She knew the northern birds went away
with the first warm wind of February ; she
had every year since she could remember
seen the gulls, and gannets, and storm-swallows,
and all their congeners, take their
flight due north, never to return until
winter returned too.

She missed the timid and yet bold
creatures of the Pole, after which the people
of Santa Tarsilla had named her ; and she
missed the little red birds of the north with
their tiny sweet song, piping when the full
melody of the nightingale was mute.

But whilst the sky was fill of storm
clouds and the sea of froth and foam, and the
snow was still half-way down the sides of
the black Argentaro rocks, and wholly
clothed the Apennines, she was cheered by
the glad exuberant chatter of the dauntless
starling.

Then, as the year grew a little older, and
the blackthorn of the brakes grew white
with blossom before the leaf, and the green
silent wolds that entrapped the dead cities
and the dead nations were rosy, and purple,
and lilac with the springing of the anemones ;
then, though the little robin no more showed
his red waistcoat under the myrtle scrub,

in the stead of him and his came back the
truants, the birds which, by the law laid
down by naturalists, could claim the country
as a home, since it was there they made
their nests.

Why some went, some stayed, was a
strange, unending perplexity to Musa, and a
perplexity indeed it is.

Why does the blue thrush stay on the
same spot all the year long and all the years
he lives ? and why does his brother the
stone thrush go off on autumnal equinoxes
as far as the White Nile? WJiy indeed?
The birds can laugh at science ; their
secrets none shall know.

Musa sorely missed her friends of winter,
but the budding of the crocus and the
daffodil brought her many others in their
stead, and soon she grew reconciled to the
new comers and knew their looks and haunts
and ways as well as those of their predecessors.


With earliest break of the year the red
buzzard came, so much more cowardly and
cruel than his cousin the python slayer, to
watch all the summer long warily amidst
the water-stars, and the pond plantain, to
seize some unwary moorhen, or snatch a

coot away as she brought the rushes together
to beojin a home.

All the moist ground that stretched for
leagues on leagues southward, ground that
trembled with water as human eyes will do
with unshed tears, was covered with little
feathered people who loved the marsh, and
pool, and found health and nourishment
where men found death.

There the sedge thrush hung his nest
upon a bulrush, lining it with cobwebs and
with shred rosemary as softly as a lady
sleeps on down ; there the bearded titmouse
would slumber upon a reed, covering tenderly
with his wing the female he loved so well ;
there the petits, and the finches, and the
chats, and the cricket singers, and the grasshopper
warblers, and all the multitudes of
scenes, fluttered and flirted, and darted and
dived, and made the lonely wastes mirthful
and peopled. The fisher-heron, as timid
a solitary as any that the Thebaid knew,
walked by choice rather beside the brackish
pools where fresh and salt water met, or
along the white line of the rippling surf,
eyes downward and head bent, meditative,
melancholy, and absorbed. The sheldrake
shared his taste for those saline shallows

where the salt chin-marsh and the pungent
sea-rush thrave, which have defied and made
the despair' of all engineering skill from the
days of the Etruscans ; and Musa grew well
acquainted with liii on the soaked sand
where the many streams of her moorland
trickled together, and formed, with the in-running
sea, a broad, shining, reedy mere
the breeding-place of many a noxious
vapour, but the delight of her and of the
birds.

When the asphodel was all golden and
white over the green deserts of Southern
Maremma, and she left the sea-shore for the
inland charm of fresh-born vegetation, and
the undergrowth was like snow with the
laurentius flowers, and the thyme and the
l)asil began to be dewy and fragrant underneath
her feet, she found the fieldfare that
had come from Nubian sands, and the tiny flycatcher
that was putting on his ruby coat for
spring-time and for courting, and the song-sparrow
busy building his high nest in some
solitary pine and lining it solidly with bark-fibre
or with fish scales, and the bush-singer
hanging his upon a branch of thorn or
under close leaves of myrtle, and the red-breasted
shrike darting on butterflies and

locusts as the falcons on the herons, and the
bee-eater falling through the bright air on his
prey, and the green woodpecker drilling a citadel
for himself in the stem of a dwarf cork tree
and the hoopoes patiently following the
buffaloes' slow march, and the blue nut-thatch
holdings his seed beneath his claw as a i\o^
holds a bone under his foot, and his cousins
the sittce of the rosy tails descending tree
trunks head foremost, and the woodlark
making music, from a tuft of rosemary or
broom, clearer and sweeter than the love-songs
of any lute ; and with these countless
others, too many to name the half of, and
Philomel herself for ever pouring her heart
out in rapture, as she does all day long and
all night long from the first Lenten lily to
the last midsummer rose.

Altogether they made such a jocund
company upon these unknown and silent
wastes that it was the saddest pity that
Milton and Shakespeare and Shelley could
not awake and come and hear. Oftentimes in
such a place one longs for them, and wonders
as the children wonder of the flowers that
die with summer — where are they gone?

She had the heaven-born faculty of
observation of the poets, and she had that

instinct of delight in natural beauty which
made Linnaeus fall on his knees before the
English gorse and thank God for having
made so beautiful a thing. This child of
the foolish and sensual Serapia and of the
murderer Mastarna was a poet at heart ;
in another land, and under other circumstances,
the world might have heard of her
and have hearkened as eagerly to her as the
people of Santa Tarsilla had listened to her
singing. Had study and wise companionship
been given to her she might have found
utterance for all the thoughts and fancies,
the dreams and the affections, that thronged
on her amidst the woods and on the sea, but
left her dumb and moved to a mute joy,
keen almost to pain.

In a freer and a gladder day than hers,
in time of Urban or Florentine or Venetian
greatness, lie might have forced her own
way up to light and learning, and made the
heaven of some great soul, and been crowned
with the golden laurel on the Capitol.

As it was, her sympathies and her
imaginings spent themselves in solitary song
as she made the old strings of the lute throb
in low cadence when she sat solitary by her
hearth on the rock floor of the grave ;

VOL. I. Y

and out of doors her eyes filled and her hips
laughed when she wandered through the
leafy land and found the warbler's nest hung
upon the reeds, or the first branching
asphodel in flower. She could not have told
why these made her happy, why she could
watch for half a day untired the little wren
building where the gladly blossomed on
the water's edge. It was only human life
that hurt her, embittered her, and filled her
with hatred of it.

As she walked one golden noon by the
Sasso Scritto, clothed with its myrtle and
thyme and its quaint cacti that later would
bear their purple heads of fruit, the shining
sea beside her, and above her the bold
arbutus-covered heights, with the little bells
of the sheep sounding on their sides, she saw
a large fish, radiant as a gem, with eyes like
rubies. Some men had it ; a hook was in its
golden gills, and they had tied its tail to
the hook so that it could not stir, and
they had put it in a pail of water that it
might not die too quickly, die ere they
could sell it. A little further on she saw
a large green and gold snake, one of the
most harmless of all earth's creatures, that
only asked to creep into the sunshine, to

sleep in its hole in the rock, to live out its
short, innocent life under the honey smell of
the rosemary; the same men stoned it to
death, heaping the pebbles and broken sandstone
on it, and it perished slowly in long
agony, being large and tenacious of life.
Yet a little further on, again, she saw a big
square trap of netting, with a blinded
chaffinch as decoy. The trap was full of
birds, some fifty or sixty of them, all kinds
of birds, from the plain brown minstrel,
beloved of the poets, to the merry and
amber-winged oriole, from the dark grey or
russet bodied fly-catcher and chitchat to
the glossy and handsome jay, cheated and
caught as he was going back to the north ;
they had been trapped and would be strung
on a string and sold for a copper coin the
dozen ; and of many of them the wings or
the legs were broken and the eyes were
already dim. The men who had taken
them were seated on the thy my turf, grinning
like apes, with pipes in their mouths
and a flask of wine between their knees.

She passed on, helpless.

She thought of words that Joconda had
once quoted to lier, words wliicli said that
men were made in God's likeness !

In the loneliness and meditation of her
life the pity of her nature deepened, and her
scorn of cowardice grew still stronger. She
was brave, self-reliant, and tender to all
those creatures whom the human race,
because it understands not their language,
chooses to call dumb. Of the human beast
she had not fear, but a great mistrust.

The short winter, the enchanting springtide,
came and went, and none had traced
her to her hiding-place ; the solitudes around
had kept her harmless secret as they kept
the mysteries of the buried multitudes. The
only creature she ever spoke to was little
ZefFerino, and he did not tell of her because
he loved her herb soup, her pullet's eggs,
her store of bilberries, her skill at finding
edible mushrooms ; and she let him come
and nibble when he would, squatting like a
little faun upon the floor of the tomb, and
holding some platter or bowl of the dead
Etruscans tight in his brown hands.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : Printed BY

BP0TTI8W00DR AND CO., NEW-street Squab

AND Parliament Street

CHATTO & Winds's

List of Books.

NE W FINE-ART WORK. Large 4to. bound in buckram, 21s,

Abdication, The ; or, Time Tries All.

An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff. With Seven
Etchings by John Petrie, R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J. Mac
Whiter. a. R. a., Colin Hunt kr , R. Macbeth. andTOM Graham.

Crown 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt, js. 6d.

Advertising, A History of.

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious specimens,
and Notices of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

The Evolutionist at Large. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Vignettes from Nature. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
One\of the best specimens 0/ popular scientific exposition tJtat we have ever
had the good fortune to fall in with." — Leeds Mercury.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, yj. 6d,

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

From the German of A. Rosengarten by W. Collett-Sandars.

Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile, cloth extra, ^s<. 6d,

Artemus Ward's Works :

TheWorks of Charles Farmer Browne, know n as Artemus Ward.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;

With some Account of their Predecessors, the Early Goldsmiths : together
with Lists of Bankers from 1677 to 1876. By F. G. Hilton Price.

Barley (Rev. C. W.), Works by :

English Surnames : Their Sources and Significations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7^-. 6J.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 'js. 6d,

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of.

By Henry Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations .
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, sis. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.

The First Series including Examples by Wilkie, Constable,
Turner, Already, Landseer, Machine, E. M. Ward, Frith,
Sir John Gilbert, Leslie, Anselm, Marcus Stone, Sir Noel
Paton, Feed, Eyre Crown, Gavin O'Neil, and Maddox Brown.

The Second Series containing Pictures by Armytage, Feed,
GooDALL, Henley, Horsey, Marks, Nicholls, Sir Noel
Paton, Pickersgill, G. Smith, Marcus Stone, Solomon,
Straight, E. M. Ward, and Warren.

All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, Mea.
This book is well got up, and good engravings by jfeens, Lamb Stocks, ard
ethers, bring back to us Royal Acadei7ty Exhibitions oj past years** — Times.

Small 4to, green and gold, 6j. td. ; gilt edges, yj. 6<3?.

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bernstein . With
Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and loo Illustrations by
Richter

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Belgravia for 1882.

A New Serial Story, entitled "All Sorts and. Conditions of Men"'
written by Walter Besant and James Rice, Authors of " Ready-money
Mortiboy," "The Golden Butterfly," "The Chaplain of the
Fleet," &c., and Illustrated bv Fred. Barnard, was begun in the
January Number of Belgravia ; which Number contained also the
First Chapters of a New Novel, entitled " The Admiral's Ward, "
by Mrs. Alexander, Author of "The Wooing o't," &'c. ; the first
portion of a Comedy in Two Parts, by Ouida, entitled " Resurgo ; "
and a Story by Wilkie Collins, entitled " How I Married Him :
A Young Lady's Confession." In this Number was also given the
First of a Series of Twelve Papers, by Mrs. Macquoid, entitled
About Yorkshire," Illustrated by Thomas R. Macquoid.
*,» The Forty-sixth Volume of BELGRAVIA, elegantly bound
in crimson slothful gilt side and back, gilt edges, price js. 6d., is now
ready. — Handsome Cases for binding volumes can be had at zs. each.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21J.

Blake (William) :

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. Sc OTT. With descriptive Te xt.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, ^s. 6d,

Boccaccio's Cameron;

or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated Into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait, and
Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size fcH* binding.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks:

Academy Notes, 1875. With 40 Illustrations. is.
Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, i/.
Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, academy
Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1881. With 128 Illustrations, is.
Qrosvenor Notes, 1878. With 68 Illustrations. is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations. is,
Qrosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations. ix.
Qrosvenor Notes, 1881. With 74 Illustrations. ix.
Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, is.
Pictures at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, is.
The English Pictures at the National Gallery. 1 14 Illusts. is.
The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts. is. 6d,
Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with

nearly 600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6x,

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.
With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242 Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3X.

UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY NOTES."
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, is.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 1 14 Illustrations, is.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1381. 104 Illustrations, is,
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. is,
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. is.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881. 108 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. is.
Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations, is.
Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. ix.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from

Gorseborough. II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with
Stag Hounds. Oblong 410, half-bound boards, 21*.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in

facsimile of the originals. Oblong 4to, half-bound, 21*.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Brsmd's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis. An entirely
New and Revised Edition, with fine full-page Illustrations.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the

Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j. each.

VoL I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate
Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author.

Vel II. Earlier Papers— Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends.

Vol. HI. Tales of the Argonauts — Eastern Sketches.

Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.

Vol. V. Stories — Condensed Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With

Introductory Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait of the Author, and 50
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, •]$. 6d.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. By Bret Harte.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 25. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Cap.

8vo, picture cover, is. ; crown Svo, cloth extra, 31. 6d.

The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. By Bret

Harte. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. Fcap. Svo, picture

cover, zs. ; cloth extra, 2s. 6cL

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with full-page Portraits, 4J. 6d,

Brewster's (Sir David) Martyrs of S science.

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Astronomical Plates, 4J. 6d.

Brewster's (Sir D.) More Worlds than One,

the Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of the Christian.
A HANDSOME GIFT-BOOK.—Small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Brushwood.

By T. Buchanan Read. Illustrated from Designs by Frederick
Delian.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Buchanan.— Ballads of Life, Love & Humour

By Robert Buchanan, Author of " God and the Man," &c.
THE STOTHARD BUNYAN.—Qrown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by
Stothard, engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy :

A New Edition, complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates,

Demy 8vo , clo th extra, 14J.

Campbell's (Sir G.) White and Black :

Travels in the United States. By Sir Georob Campbell, M.P.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ^s. 6d.

Caravan Route (The) between Egypt and

Syria. By His Imperial and Royal Highness the Archduke Ludwig
Salvator of Austria. With 23 full-page Illustrations by the Author.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, u. 6d,

Carlyle (Thomas) On the Choice of Books.

With a Life of the Author by R. H. Shepherd. Entirely New and
Revised Edition.

Two Vols., demy Bvo, cloth extra, 21J.

Cavalry Life;

Or, Sketches and Stories in Barracks and Out. By J, S. Winter.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some ol
the Indian Tribes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Chap-Books.— A History of the Chap-Books

of the Eighteenth Century. By John Ashton. With nearly 400
Illustrations, engraved in facsimile of the originals. fen the press .

*#* A few Large Paper copies will be carefully printed on hand-made
paper, for which early application should be made.

Large 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 28 j,

Chatty and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood

Engraving : Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G.
John ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revised Edition.

Small 4to, cloth gilt, with Coloured Illustrations, los. W.

Chaucer for Children;

A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With Eight Coloured
Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.

Demy 8vo, cloth limp, aj. 6</.

Chaucer for Schools.

By Mrs. Haw eis, Author of " Chaucer for Children."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. 6rf.

Colman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Colman. With Life by G.
B. BucKSTONE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the

Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

VoL I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate
Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author.

Vol II. Earlier Papers— Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends.

Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts — Eastern Sketches.

Vol. IV. Gabriel Conrov.

Vol. V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With

Introductory Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait of the Author, and 50
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra-js. 6d.

An Heiress of Need Dog, and other Stories. By Bret Haute,

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Fcap.

8vo, picture cover, u. ; crown Svo, cloth extra, 35. 6d.

The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. By Bret

Harte. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2J.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. Fcap. Svo, picture

cover, xs. ; cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with full-page Portraits, 41. 6d,

Brewster's (Sir David) Martyrs of Science.

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Astronomical Plates, 4J. 6d.

Brewster's (Sir D.) More Worlds than One,

the Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of the Christian,
A HANDSOME G/FT-BOOK.—Small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Brushwood.

By T. Buchanan Read. Illustrated from Designs by Frederick
Delian.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Buchanan. — Ballads of Life, Love & Humour.

By Robert Buchanan, Author of " God and the Man," <S:c.
THE STOTHARD BUNYAN.—Cro^n Svo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by
Stothard, engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy :

A New Edition, complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of the
Cla ssical Extracts.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of tb
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14J.

Campbell's (Sir G.) White and Black :

T revels in the United States. By Sir George Campbell, M.P.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J, 6</.

Caravan Route (The) between Egypt and

Syria. By His Imperial and Royal Highness the Archduke Ludwig
Salvator r of A austria. With 23 full-page Illustrations by the Author.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, u. td.

Carlyle (Thomas) On the Choice of Books.

With a Life of the Author by R. H. Shepherd. Entirely New and
Revised Edition.

Two Vols., demy Bvo, cloth extra, 21J.

Cavalry Life;

Or, Sketches and Stories in Barracks and Out. By J. S. Winter.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 7J. td.

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some ol
the Indian Tribes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Chap-Books.— A History of the Chap-Books

of the Eighteenth Century. By John Ashton. With nearly 400
Illustrations, engraved in facsimile of the originals. vin the press.

*^ A few Large Paper copies will be carefully printed on hand-made
paper, for which early application should be made.

Large 4to, half bound, profusely Illustrated, 28J.

Chatty and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood

Engraving : Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G.
John ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revised Edition.

Small 4to, cloth gill, with Coloured Illustrations, ioj. 6d.

Chaucer for Children:

A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With Eight Coloured
Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.

Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 2J. 6d.

Chaucer for Schools.

By Mrs. Haweis, Author of " Chaucer for Children."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Colman's Humorous Works ;

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Colman. With Life by G.
B. BuCKSTONE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21J,

Drury Lane, Old :

Fifty Years' Recollections of Author, Actor, and Manager. By
Edward Stirling.

Demy 8vo, cloth, i6j.

Duty's India Past and Present;

with Minor Essays on Cognate Subjects. By Shosheb Chunder
DuTT, Rii Bdhddoor.

Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6j. per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat,

1. Fletcher's(Giles,B.D.) Complete

Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial Introduction
and Notes. One Vol.

2. Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto
Unpublished MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited. Memorials.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete
Collected Poems. With Memorial*
Introduction and Notes, Steel Portrait,
Index of First Lines, and
Glossarial Index, &c. Three Vols.

4. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works, Including: all
those in * ' Arcadia. ' ' With Portrait,
Memorial-Introduction, Essay on
the Poetry of Sidney, and Notes.

Introduction and Notes. Two Vols. ' Three Vols.

Crown 8v«, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6j.

Emanuel On Diamonds and Precious

Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7^. 6rf.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, doth extra, with nearly 300 Illustrations, 75. 6^.

Evolution, Chapters on;

A Popular History of the Darwinian and Allied Theories of Development.
By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S. Eden. &c. \^In preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, di.

Pairholt's Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By F.
W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards of
100 Illustrations by the Author.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7J. unfamiliar

Allusions :

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names ot
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins,
Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like.
By William A. Wheeler, Author of *' Noted Names of Fiction; "
and Chalices G. Wheeler. fin the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. dd.

Faraday's Chemical History of a Candle.

Lectures delivered to a Juvenile Audience. A New Edition. Edited
by W. Crookes, F.CS. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. Sd.

Faraday's Various Forces of Nature.

New Edition. Edited by W. Crookes, F.C.S. Numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ^s. 6d.

Finger-Ring Lore:

Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By Wm, Jones, F.S.A. With
Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries.
•• Om 0/ those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as of instruction."
— Athkn^um. •

Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 21J.

Fitzgerald.— Recreations of a Literary Manor,

Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's Working Life. By Percy Fitzgerald.
fin preparation.

Gardening Books:

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice

to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and
Frame Garden. By George Glknny. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we
Cook Them. By Tom Tenfold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the
Rent," &c. Post Svo, cloth limp, zy. 6d.

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom
and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s, 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis

George Heath. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5J.
One Shilling Monthly.

Gentleman's Magazine (The) for 1882.

The January Number of this Periodical contained the First Chapters
of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorne,
Author of "Garth," &c. "Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., will also be continued monthly.
"^* Now ready, the Volume for July to December, isti, cloth extra,
price 8j. 6d.; and Cases for binding, price 2s. each.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

THE RUSKIN GR/MM.—Sqaaxe 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6rf.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor.

Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations

after the inimitable designs of George Cruikshank. Both Series

Complete.
Ta illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which
they illustrate; and the original etchings, as I have before said in the Appendix to
tfiy ' Elements of Drawing,' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rent'
brandt (in some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . . , To make
somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass,
and never putting two lines where CruiksJiank has put only one, would be exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to bt learnt
in schools" — Extract from. Introduction by John Ruskin.

Square imo (Tauchnitz size).

Golden Library, The:

Ballad History of England. By

W. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club.

Byron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of

the Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the

Breakfast Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities.

Complete. With all the original Illustrations.


Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both

Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale

for a Chimney Corner, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, 2J. per volume.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

d' Arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'CWB,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Bochefoucauld's Mazlms and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by .


St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and

Queen Mab, with Essay by Lkigb
Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems : Lion

and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including

A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel

borne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7J. td.

Golden Treasury of Thought, The:

An Encyclopaedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Excited by Theodore Tatler.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, zr. 6d.

Blenny's A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management
of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Blenny.
A great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. Th
amateur need not wish for a better guide." — Leeds Mercury.

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, "js.ftd.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.
KONER. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Excited by
Dr. F. HuEFFER. With 545 illustrations.

^' Must find a place, not ,oily upon the scholar's selves, but in every well-chosen
library of art. ''^ — Daily News.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 41, 6(/.

Guyot's Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its Relation to the History of Mankind.
With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray ; la Maps
and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and copious Index.

Crown Bvo, u.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in Health, Weakness,
and Disease. Translated from the German of Dr. T. Picus,
of Berlin. [/« the press.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 410, cloth extra, Zs.
New Sjncnbols. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ds.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, dr.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, i2J.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.

With Notices of their Lives and Writings. By Helen and Alice
ZiMMERN. A New Edition.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, yj. 6rf.

Hairs(Mrs. S. Sketches of Irish Character-with

numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Maclisb, Gilbert,
Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.
" The Irish Sketches oj this lady resemble Miss Milford's beautiful English
sketches in ' Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque anu
bright." — Blackwood's Magazine.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5J.

Heath (F. G.)— My Garden Wild,

And What I Grew there. By FRANCIS GEORGE Heath, Author of
"The Fern World," &c.

Haweis (Mrs), Works by :

The Aii; of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the
Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, \s. ; cloth limp, li. (id.
"A well-considered attempt to apply canons oj good taste to the costumes

of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to th*

pointy she does not mince matters but boldly remonstrates with her own sex
on the follies they indulge in. ; . . . We may recommend the bock to th*
ladies whom it concerns — Athkn^um.

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly loo
Illustrations, vos. 6d.

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,

handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, xos. 6d.

*^j* See also Chaucer, p. $ of this Catalogue.

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells.
'• The merits of the hook cannot be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts ;
it should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and, in our opinion, its
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed'" — St. James's Gazette.

Cr. 8vo, bound in parchment, Zs. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15J.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Cherbiuy. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.
Complete in Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, I2J. each.

History of Our Own Times, from the Accession

of Queen Victoria to the General Election of 1880. By Justin
McCarthy, M.P.

•* Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approval.
This is a really good book on a really interesting subject t and words pied on words
could say no mere for zV."— Saturday Review.

New Work by the Author of "A HI STOP YofOURO WN TIMES."
Four Vols, demy Bvo, cloth extra, I2J. each.

History of the Four Georges.

By Justin McCarthy, M.P. vin preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2j. 6d.

Holes's The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, L.R.C.P.E.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. 6d.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gelt edges, 6j.

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes.

The amusing letterpress is profusely interspersed with the jingling rhymii
which children love and learn so easily. Messrs. Brandon and Barnes do fu I
justice to the writer's meaning, and a pleasant result of the harmonious c<"
operation of author and artist could not be desired. " —Times.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. dd.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns, and Hoaxes;
Wit h a new Life of t he Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and Illustrations,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 71.

Home's Orion :

An Epic Poem in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horns.
With a brief Commentary by the Author. With Photographic Portrait
from a Medallion by Summers. Tenth Edition.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, yj. 6d.

Howell's Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This book is an attempt, and on thu whole a successful attempt, to place the
work of trade unions in the past, and their objects in the future, fairly before the
Public front the working man's point of view)" ~Y MJi. Mall Gazette.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12J. 6<f.

Suffer's The Troubadours:

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. Ey
Francis Suffer.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.

Janvier. — Practical Keramics for Students.

By Catherine A. Janvier.

\tV ill be found a useful handbook by this tho wish to try the manufacture
ar decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to know something
«f the art." — Morning Post,

A New Edition, Revised and partly Re-written, with several New
Chapters and Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, ^s. 6d,

Jennings' The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings, With Five tull-page
Plates and upwards of too Illustrations.

Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14J.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and •* The Wars of the Jews."

Jerrold (Tom), Works by:

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom

and Jane Jkrrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, "zs.ixi.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook

Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of " The Garden that Paid the Rent,"

&c Post 8vo, cloth limp, ■zs. 6d.

*• The combination of hints on cookery-with gardening has been very cleverly

carried out, and tke result is an interesting and highly instructive little work,

Mr. Jerrold is correct in saying that English people do not make half the use of

vegetables they might ; and by showing hcnv easily they can be groton, and so obtained

fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more popular." — Daily Chronicle.

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, di.

Kavanaghs' Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JULIA Kavanagh. With

Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

•• Genuine neve fairy stories of the old type, some of them, as delightful as the

etsi of Grimm's ' German Popular Stories,' For the most part the

cries are downright f thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kirtle

. Mr. Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, are admirable." — Spectator.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Knight (The) and the Dwarf.

By Charles Mills. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas
Lindsay.

Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2j. 6d,

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Portraits, 7J. 6rf.

Lamb's Complete Works,

In Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Original Editions, with many

Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction,

by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and. Facsimile of a Page

of the " Essay on Roast Pig."

**A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been

wanted, aid is now supplied. Tie editor appears to have taken great paints

to bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a

number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first tim since their original

appearance in various old periodicals." — Saturday Review.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, lor. 6d,

Lamb (Mary and Charles) :

Their Poems, Letters, and Remains. With Reminiscences and Notes
by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's Portrait of the Essayist,
Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare First Editions of Lamb's and
Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Very many passages will delight those fond of literary trifles I hardly any
portion will fail in interest for lovers of Charles Lamb and his sister"— St axdamd.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, $s.

Lamb's Poetry for Children, and Prince

Doris. Carefully Reprinted from unique copies.
Th quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery oy which all the heart
this lo vers are yet warm with rejoicing." — A. C. Swinburne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.

Lares and Penates;

Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy.

The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions.
. . . We hope nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a
good deal about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones*' —
Graphic.

Crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, 6j.

Leigh's A Town Garland.

By Henry S. Leigh, Author of "Carols of Cockayne."
"If Mr. Leigh's verse survive to a future generation — and there is no reason
why that honour should not be accorded productions so delicate, so finished, attd so
full of humour — their author will probably be remembered as the Poet of the
Strand." — Athhn^um.

Second Edition.— Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6j.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.

By Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Zoology and Comparative
Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School.
"It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator
who in the intervals of his more serious prof essional labours sets himself to impart
knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct,
with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this
little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.
Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in science at Edinburgh and Glasgow, mt
leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem wit h
matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the truths
af nature." — Saturday Review.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d,

Life in London;

or, The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
*• Thoreau : A Study."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. 6d,

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including "Outre Mer," "Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets
and Poetry of Europe," and " Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations
by Valentine Bromley.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, ^s. 6d,

Longfellow's Poetical Works.

Carefully Reprinted from the Original Editions. With numerous
fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 55.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By a Sane Patient.

Tk* story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though the subject
bt. There is no personal bitterness and no violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to an
asylum., nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book ; it is
bright, calm, cmdto the point ." — Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, iBj.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian verse by ROBERT French Duff,
Knight Commander of the Portuguese Royal Order of Christ.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ^s. 6d.

Machine Gallery (The) of Illustrious Literary

Characters : 84 fine Portraits, with Descriptive Text, Anecdotal and
Biographical. By William Bates, B. A. \ In preparation.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 55.

Magna Charta.

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Mallock's (W. H.) Works :

Is Life Worth Living? By William Harrel Mallock,

New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
This deeply interesting volume It is the most powerful vindication
of religion, both natural and revealed, that has appeared since Bishop
Butler wrote, and is touch more useful than either the A analogy or th£ Ser'
m-ons of that great divine, as a refutation of the peculiar form assumed by

the infidelity of the present day Deeply philosophical as th* book

is, there is not a heavy page in it. The writer is 'possessed,' so to speak,
vkth his great subject, has sounded its depths, surveyed it in all its extent
and brought to bear on it all the resources of a vivid, rich, and impassioned
style, as well as an adequate acquaintance with the science, the philosophy,
and the literature of the ^/ay."— Irish Daily News.
The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an
English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, cloth limp, «. td.
The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism on an Island. By

W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2j. td.
Poems. By W. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, 8j.
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. By W. H. Mallock,

Second Edition, with a Preface. Two Vols., crown 8vo, 2 if.

Macqnoid (Mrs), Works by:

In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Uniform with " Pictures
and Legends." Square 8vo, cloth extra, lor. (td.
This is another of Mrs. M acquits s pleasant books of travel,fuU of useful
information, ef picturesque descriptions of scenery, and of quaint traditions
respecting the various monuments and ruins which she encounters in her
tour. . . . To such of our readers as are already thinking about the year's
holiday, we strongly recommend the perusal of Mrs. Macquoid" s experiences.
The book is well illustrated by Mr. Thomas R. Macquoid." — Graphic.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By

Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, vos. 6d.

Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.
Om of the fevj books which can be read as a piece of literature, whilst at
the same time handy in the knapsack." — British Quarterly Review.

Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. Svo, cloth extra, ts. 6d.
** The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Macquoid offers, while wandering
from one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed charm,
around each of t-depicted scene." — Morning Post.

Mark Twain's Works:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected

throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d,

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With

100 Illustrations. Small Svo, cloth extra, 7*. 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated
boards, 2s.

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocents

Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress; By Mark Twain. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. By Mark Twain. With nearly

200 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Uniform with " A Tramp
Abroad."

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The Nev Pilgrim's Progress :

Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion
to Europe and the Holy Land, with descriptions of Countries, Nations,
Incidents, and Adventures, as they appeared to the Author. With 234
Illustrations. By Mark Twain. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Uniform
with " A Tramp Abroad."

A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d.
The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living fan but
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and Fantasy and slyness, the wonderful
feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make of all this episode oj
yitn Baker and his jays a piece oJ work that is not only delightful as there
reading, but also oJ a high degree of merit as literature, , . . The book it
full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the
funniest o/thott that have gone before," — ATHSNiSUM.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Post sto, cloth limp, sj. 6</. per volume.

Mayfair Library, The:

The New Republic. By W. H.

Mallock.

The New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. Mallock.

The True History of Joshua

Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter

Thornbury.

Thoreau : His Life and Alms.

By H. A. Page.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.
Jeux esprit Edited by Henry

S. Leigh.

Juliana. By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.

More Fenian. By the Hon.

Hugh Rowley.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.

The Speeches of Charles

Dickens.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by

H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Philosophy of handwriting.

By Don Felix de Salamanca.


Curiosities of Criticism. By

Henry J. Jennings.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by
W. T. Dobson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt,
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by
W. Davenport Adams.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.

First Series. Containing:
The Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing:
Broken Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts
— Dan'l Bruce — Gretchen —
Tom Cobb — The Sorcerer — H.M.S.
Pinafore — The Pirates of Penzance.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry

S. Leigh.

The Book of Clerical Anecdotes.
By Jacob Haywood.

The Agony Column of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.

The Cupboard Papers. By

Fin-Bec.
Pastimes and Players. By

Robert Macgregor.

Balzac's "Comedies Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations
by H. H. Walker.

Melancholy Anatomise : A

Popular Abridgment of " Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy."

Quips and Quiddities. Selected

by W. Davenport Adams.

Leaves from a Naturalist's
Note-Book. By Andrew Wilson,
F.R.S.E.

The Autocrat of the .
By Oliver Wendell
Holmes. Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson.

Forensic Anecdotes ; or, Humour
and Curiosities of the Law and
the Men of Law. By Jacob Lar-wood.


Other Volutnei art in preparation.

Small 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, aj. 6rf.

Miller's Physiology for the Yoimg;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its Applications to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller.
*' An admirable introduction to a subject which all ths value health and tnj'oy
lift should have at their fingers' ends"— Echo.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the

Management of the Skin ; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths,
&c. By J. L. Milton, Senior Surgeon to St. John's Hospital. Small
8vo, IS. ; cloth extra, u. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small sto, cloth extra,

is.6 d.

Square 8vo, doth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7s, 6d,

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Coins Carr. Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott.
•• A d^Ught/ul book, of a kind which is far too rare. If anyone wants to really
htunu the North Italian folk, we can honestly advise hi?H to omit the journey, and
read Mrs. Carr' s pages instead. . . Description with Mrs, Carr is a real gift. ,
It is rarely that a both is so happily illustrated*— QxiwvMiVO'SiKVi Review.

New Novels:

IN MAREMMA.

By OuiDA. 3 vols., crown 8v». shortly.

ODD AND THE MAN.

By Robert Buchanan, Author of "The Shadow of the Sworn," &c.
3 vols., crown Svo. With ii Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

THE COMET OF A SEASON.

By Justin McCarthy, M.P., Author of "Miss Misanthrope." 3 vols.,
crown Svo.

JOSEPH'S COAT.

By David Christie Murray, Author of "A Life's Atonement," &c
With 12 Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

A HEART'S PROBLEM.

By Charles Gibbon, Author of " Robin Gray," &c. s vols, crown 8v».

THE BRIDE'S PASS.

By Sarah Tatler, 2 vols., crown Svo.

PRINCE SARONI's WIFE, and other Stories.

By Julian Hawthorne. 3 vols., crown Svo. \ Shortly.

SOMETHING IN THE CITY.

By George Augustus Sala. 3 vols, crown Svo. \I n preparation.

THE MARTYRDOM OF MADELINE.

By Robert Buchanan. 3 vols., crown Svo. shortly.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price dj. per Vol.

Old Dramatists The:

Ben Jonson's Works.

With Notes, Critical and Explanatory,
and a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel
Cunningham. Three Vols.

Chapman's Works.

Now First Collected. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the Plays
complete, including the doubtful ones;
Tol. II. the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay

by Algkrnon Charles Swinburne.
Vol. III. the Translations of the Iliad
and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works.

Including his Translations. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, by CoL
Cunningham. One Vol.
Massinger's Plays.

From the Text of William Gifford.
With the addition of the Tragedy of
Believe as you List." Edited by
Col. Cunningham. One VoL

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Fcap.

O'Shaughnessy (Arthur) Works by :

Songs of a Worker. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy.

8vo, cloth extra, 7^. td.

Music and Moonlight. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap.

8vo, cloth extra, 7^. (id.

Lays of France. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, xos. 6d.

Crown 8vo, red cloth extra, 55. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castlemalne.

Tricotrin.

Puck.

Folle Urine.

Dog of Flanders.

*«* Also a Cheap
boards, 2j. each.

By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
Edition of all

Pascal By Ouida.

Two Wooden Shoes. By Ouida.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.

A Village Commune. By Ouida.
but the last, post 8vo, illustrated

Post 870, cloth limp, u. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook
of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Large 4to, cloth extra, gilt, beautifully Illustrated, 31J. 6d.

Pastoral Days ;

Or, Memories of a New England Year. By W. HAMILTON GiBSON.

With 76 Illustrations in the highest style of Wood Engraving.

The volume contains a prose point, with illustrations in the shape of wood
engravings more beautiful than it can well enter into the hearts of most men to
conceive." — Scotsman.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.

Payn.— Some Private Views.

Being Essays contributed to The Nineteenth Century and to The
Times. By James Payn Author of " High Spirits," " By Proxy,"
Lost Sir Massingberd," &c.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, xos. 6d.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes, Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhornb.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 7s. 6d,

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

With Baudelaire's •' Essay."



Library Editions, many Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3J. 6<f. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

Papular ^isxxxxi^ bj? tf)e %zii ^uttortf*

The Haunted Hotel. ByWiLKiR
Collins.

The Fallen Leaves. By Wilkie

Collins.

Jezebel's Daughter. W. Collins.

The Black Robe. By Wilkie

Collins.

Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. H,

LovETT Cameron.
Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs. H.
LovETT Cameron.

Felicia. M. Bentham-Edwards.
Archie Lovell. By Mrs. Annie
Edwards.

Oljnnpia. By R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua. By R. E.

Francisco.
The Capet Girls. By Edward

Garrett.
Robin Gray. Charles Gibbon,
For Lack of Gold. By Charles

Gibbon.

In Love and War. By Charles

Gibbon.
What will the World Say P By

Charles Gibbon.

For the King, Charles Gibbon.
In Honour Bound. By Charles

Gibbon.
Queen of the Meadow. By

Charles Gibbon.

In Pastures Green. By Charles

Gibbon.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

By Thomas Hardy.

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne.
Ellice Question. By Julian

Hawthorne.

Sebastian Stroke. By Julian

Hawthorne.
Thornicroft's Model. By Mrr.

Alfred Hunt.
The Leaden Casket. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.
Fated to be Free. By Jean

Ingklow.

Confidence. Henry James, Jun.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ? By

Mrs. Alexander.

Ready-money Mortiboy. By

W. Besant and James Rice.

My Little GirL By W. Besant

and James Rice.
The Case of Vir. Craft. By

VV. Besant and James Rice.
This Son of Vulcan. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
With Harp and Crown. By W,

Besant and James Rice.
The Golden Butterfly. By W.

Besant and James Rice.

By Celia's Arbour. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
The Monks of Helena. By

W. Besant and James Rice.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By

W. Besant and James Rice.

The Seamy Side. By Walter

Besant and James Rice.
The Chaplain of the Fleet. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

The Ten Years' Tenant. By
Walter Besant and James Rice.

A Child of Nature. By Robert

Buchanan.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins.
Basil. By Wilkie Collins.
Hide and Seek. By Wilkie

Collins.

The Dead Secret W. Collins.

Queen of Hearts. W. Collins.

My Miscellanies. W. Collins.

The Woman in White. By

Wilkie Collins.

The Moonstone. W. Collins.
Man and Wife. W. Collins.
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins.
Miss or Mrs. ? By W. Collins.
The New Magdalen. ByWiLKiE

Collins.
The Frozen Deep. W. Collins.
The Law and the Lady. By

Wilkie Collins.

The Two Destinies. By Wilkie

Collins.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels — continued.
The Queen of Connaught. By

Harriet Jay.

The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay.
Number Seventeen. By Henry

KiNGSLEY.

Oakshott Castle. H. Kingsley.
Patricia Kimball By E. Lynn

Linton.

The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
By E. Lynn Linton.

The World Well Lost. By E.
Lynn Linton.

Under which Lord? By E.

Lynn Linton.

With a Silken Thread. By E.

Lynn Linton.
The Rebel of the Family. By

E. Lynn Linton.
"My Love!" By E. Lynn

Linton.

The Watergate Neighbours.

By Justin McCarthy.

My Enemy's Daughter. By

Justin McCarthy.

Linley Rochford. By Justin

McCarthy.

A Fair Saxon. J. McCarthy.
Dear Lady Disdain. By Justin

McCarthy.

Miss Misanthrope. By Justin

McCarthy.

Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy.
Quaker Cousins. By Agnes

Macdonald.

Lost Rose. By Katharine S.

Macquoid.

The Evil Eye. By Katharine

S. Macquoid.

Open ! Sesame 1 By Florence

Marryat.

Written in Fire. F. Marryat.
Touch and Go. By Jean Middlemost.



A Life's Atonement. By D.
Christie Murray.

Whiteladies. Mrs. Oliphant.

Lost Sir Massingberd. By James

Payn.

The Best of Husbands. By

James Payn.

Fallen Fortunes. James Payn,
Halves. By James Payn.
Walter's Word. James Payn.
What He Cost Her. By James

Payn.

Less Black than we're Fainted.

By James Payn.

By Proxy. By James Payn.
Under One Roof, James Payn.
High Spirits. By James Payn,
From Exile. By James Payn.
Carlton's Year. By James

Payn.
A Confidential Agent. 'By
James Payn.

Put Yourself in his Place. By

Charles Reade.

Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.

J. H. Liddell.

Bound to the Wheel. By John

Saunders.

Guy Waterman. J. Saunders
One Against the World. By

John Saunders.
The Lion in the Path. By

John Saunders.

The Two Dreamers. By John

Saunders.

Proud Maisie. By Bertha

Thomas.

Cressida. By Bertha Thomas.
The Violin-Player. By Bertha

Thomas.

The Way We Live Now. By

Anthony Trollops.

The American Senator. By

Anthony Trollops.

Diamond Cut Diamond. By

T. A. Trollops.

What She Came through. By

Sarah Tatler.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, dr.

Planche,— Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.

By J. R. Planche. Edited, with an Introduction, by his Daughter,

Planche.
Mrs. Backwardness.



Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2j. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[WiLKiB Collins' Novels and Bksant and Rice's Novels may also be had in
cloth limp at 2J. 6d. See, too, tht Piccadilly Novels, /<?r Library Editions']

Confidences. Hamilton Aid£.
Carr of Carlton. H. Aiofi.
Maid, Wife, or Widow? By

Mrs. Alexander.
Ready-money Mortiboy. By
Walter Besant and James Rice.

With Harp and Crown. By

Walter Besant and James Rice
This Son of Vulcan. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
My Little Girl. By the same.
The Case of Mr. Craft. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

The Golden Butterfly. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
By Celia's Arbour. By Walter
Besant and James Rice.

The Monks of Helena. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

Seamy Side. Besant and Rice.
Grantly Grange. By Shelley

Beauchamp.

An Heiress of Red Dog. By

Bret Harte.

The Luck of Routing Camp.

By Bret Harte.

Gabriel Convoy. Bret Harte.
Surly Tim. By F. E. Burnett.
Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. L.
Cameron.

Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs.

LovETT Cameron.

The Cure of Souls. By Mac-laden

Cobban.

The Bar Sinister. By C.

Allusion Collins.

Antonio. By WilkieCollins.
Basil. By Wilkie Collins.
Hide and Seek. W. Collins.
The Dead Secret. W. Collins.
Queen of Hearts. W. Collins.
My Miscellanies. W. Collins.
Woman In White. Collins.
The Moonstone. W. Collins.

Man and Wife. W. Collins.
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins.
Miss or Mrs. P W. Collins.
New Magdalen. W. Collins.
The Frozen Deep. W. Collins.
Law and the Lady. Collins.
Two Destinies. W. Collins.
Haunted. Hotel. W. Collins.
Fallen Leaves. By Collins.
Leo. By Button Cook.
A Point of Honour. By Mrs.

Annie Edwards,
ArchieLovell. MrsA.EDWARDES
Felicia. M. Bentham-Edwards,
Roxy. By Edward Eggleston.
Polly. By Percy Fitzgerald.
Bella Donna. P. Fitzgerald.
Never Forgotten. Fitzgerald.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson. By

Percy Fitzgerald.

Seventy-FiveBroolieStreet. By

Percy Fitzgerald.

Filthy Lucre. By Albany dk

FONBLANQUE.

Olympia. By R. E. Francisco.
The Capet Girls. By Edward

Garrett.

Robin Gray. By Chas. Gibbon.
For Lack of Gold. C. Gibbon.
What will the World Say ? By

Charles Gibbon.

In Honour Bound. C. Gibbon.
The Dead Heart. By C. Gibbon.
In Love and War. C. Gibbon.
For the King. By C. Gibbon.
Queen of the Meadow. By
Charles Gibbon.

Dick Temple. By James

Greenwood.

Every-day Papers. By Andrew

Holiday.

Paul Winter's Sacrifice. By

Lady Duffus Hardy.

Under the Greenwood Tree.
By Thomas Larry.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Popular Novels — continued*

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne.
Golden Heart. By Tom Hood.
TheHunchback of Notre Dame.

By Victor Hugo.
Thomicroft's Model. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.

Fated to be Free. By Jean

Ingklow.

Confidence. By Henry James,

Jun.

Tae Queen of Connaught. By

Harriet Jay.
The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay.
Number Seventeen. ByHENi^Y

Kingsley.

Oakshott Castle. Kingsley.
Patricia Kimball. By E. Lynn

Linton.

Learn Dundas. E.LynnLinton.
The World Well Lest. By E.

Lynn Linton.
Under which Lord ? By E.

Lynn Linton.

The Watergate Neighbours.

By Justin McCarthy.
Dear LadyDisdain. By the same.
My Enemy's Daughter, By

Justin McCarthy.

A Fair Saxon. J . McCarthy.
Linley Rochford. McCarthy.
Miss Misanthrope. McCarthy.
Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy.
The Evil Eye. By Katharine

S. Macquoid.

Lost Rose. K. S. Macquoid.
Open! Sesame 1 By Florence

Marryat.

Harvest of Wild Oats. By
Florence Marryat.

A Little Stepson. F. Marryat.
Fighting the Air. F. Marryat.
Touch and Go. By Jean

MlDDLEMASS.

Mr. Dorillion. J. Middlemost.
Whiteladies. ByMrs.OLiPHANT.
Held in Bondage. By Ouida.
Stratford. By Ouida.
Chances. By Ouida.
Under Two Flags. By Ouida.
Italia. By Ouida.

Cecil Castlemaine. By Ouida.
Tricotrin. By Ouida.
Puck. By Ouida.
Folle Farine. By Ouida.
A Dog of Flanders. By Ouida.
Pascal. By Ouida.
Two Little Wooden Shoes. By
Signa. By Ouida. [Ouida.

In a Winter City. By Ouida.
Ariadne. By Ouida.
Friendship. By Ouida.
Moths. By Ouida.
Lost Sir Massingberd. J. Payn,
A Perfect Treasure. J. Payn.
Bentinck's Tutor. By J. Payn.
Murphy's Master. By J. Payn.
A County Family. By J. Payn,
At Her Mercy. By J. Payn.
AWoman'sVengeance. J. Payn.
Cecil's Tryst. By James Payn.
The Clyffards of ClyfFe. J.Payn.
Family Scapegrace. J. Payn.
The Foster Brothers. J. Payn.
Found Dead. By James Payn.
Gwendoline'sHarvest. J.Payn.
Humorous Stories. J. Payn.
Like Father, Like Son. J.Payn.
A Marine Residence. J. Payn.
Married Beneath Him. J. Payn.
Mirk Abbey. By James Payn.
Not Wooed, but Won. J. Payn.
Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

By James Payn.

Best of Husbands. By J. Payn.
Walter's Word. By J. Payn.
Halves. By James Payn.
Fallen Fortunes. By J. Payn.
What He Cost Her. J. Payn.
Less Black than We're Fainted .

By James Payn.

By Proxy. By James Payn.
Under One Roof. By J. Payn.
High Spirits. By Jas. Payn.
Paul Ferrol.

Why P. Ferrol Killed his Wife.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

By Edgar A. Pol.

«S

Popular Novels — continued.
Put Yourself in hia Place By
Charles Reade.

Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.

J. H. RiDDBLL.

O-asllght and Daylight. By

Gkorgb Augustus Sala.
Bound to the Wheel. By John

Saunders.

O-uy Waterman. J. Saunders.
One Against the World. By

John Saunders.

The Lion in the Path. By John

and Katherine Saunders.

A Match in the Dark. By A.

Sketches.

Tales for the Marines. By

Walter Thornbury.

The Way we I*ive Now. By

Anthony Trollops.

The American Senator. Ditto.
Diamond Cut Diamond. Ditto.
A Pleasure Trip in Europe.

By Mark Twain.

Tom Sawyer. ByMARK Twain.
An Idle Excursion. Twain.
Sabina. By Lady Wood.
Castaway, By Edmund Yates.
Forlorn Hope. Edmund Yates.
Land at Las i. Edmund Yates.

Nev Two-shilling
Pipistrello. By Ouida.
The Ten Years' Tenant. By

Besant and Rice.
Jezebel's Daughter. ByWiLKiE

Collins.
Queen Cophetua. By R. E.

Francisco.

In Pastures Green. By Chas.

Gibbon.
A Confidential Agent. By Jas.
Payn.

NOVELS IN THE PRESS.

Ellice Quanta. By Julian

Hawthorne.
With a Silken Thread. By E.
Lynn Lixto.v.

Quaker Cousins. By Agnes

Macdonald,

Written in Fire. By Florence

M.\RRYAT.

1 A Life's Atonement. By P.
Christie Murray.
Carlton's Year. By J. Payn.

Fcap. bvo, picture covers, u. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By the Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7J. dd.

Primitive Manners and Customs.

By James A. Farmer. ^

Small 8vo, cloth extra, with 130 Illustrations, y. td.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Move Smith.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Pursuivant of Arms, The ;

or. Heraldry founded upon Facts. By J. P. Planche, S^raarset
Herald. With Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.

Proctor's (R. A.) Works:

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the

Year, Drawings of the Constellations, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s,

Familiar Science Studies. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. 6d.
Saturn and its System. By Richard A. Proctor. New and

Revised Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, lOJ. 6d. \^l7t preparation.

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. By Rich. A. Proctor,

Author of " Other Worlds than Ours," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, dr.

Pleasant "Ways in Science. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j,
Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. By R. A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6*.
Our Place among Infinities : A Series of Essays contrasting

our Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By
Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.
The Expanse of Heaven : A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo. cloth, ts.

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. Crown 8vo, \s. 6d.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and
numerous characteristic Illustrations by Gustave Pore.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, ys. 6d,

Rambosson's Popular Astronomy.

By J. Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B . Pitman. Profusely Illustrated.

Entirely New Edition, Revised, crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
pious, and stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Third Edition,

revised throughout, with a new Appendix containing a Complete
English Bibliogr Ashy. [In the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ts.

Richardson's (Dr.) A Ministry of Health,

and ot her Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by:

Oiir Old Country Towns. With over 50 Illustrations. By

Alfred Rimmer. Square 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, los. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer.

With 50 Illustrations by the Author. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, icy. 6d. Also an
Edition de Luxe, in 4to (only a limited number printed), with the lusts.
beautifully printed on China paper, cloth bds., edges uncut, 42^. [Shortly.

About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred

Rimmer and C. A. Van dkrhoof, Sq. 8vo. cloth gilt, l os. 6d. [In the press.
Crown svo, cloth extra, 6j, per volume.

Robinson. — Natural History ot the Poets.

By Phil. Robinson. Author of " Under the Punjab," &c. In Four
Volume?. Vol. I. The Birds. Vol. II. The Beasts. Vol. III. The
Fauna of Fancy. Vol. IV. The Flora of Poetry. vin the press.

Handsomely printed, price 5^.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled ip this Country, A.D. 1066-7,
With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Two Vols., large 4to, profusely Illustrated, half-morocco, £1 z6.».

Rowlandson the Caricaturist.

A Selection from his Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions of his Familia
Caricatures, and a Sketch of his Life, Times, and Contemporaries.
With nearly 400 Illustrations, mostly in Facsimile of the Originals. By
Joseph Greg, Author of "James Gillray, the Caricaturist ; his Life,
Works, and Times."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 4J. 6^. each.

Secret Out" Series, The.

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury ; j Magician's Own Book :

or, Complete Art of Making Fire 1 Performances with Cups and Balls,
works. By Thomas Kentish. With \ Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. AH
numerous Illustrations. j from Actual Experience. Edited by

The Art of Amusing : i ,,^- f'^^^^'tl^- ^ "°° lustrations.

A Collection of Graceful Arts, Games. I Magic No Mystery:

Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By : ^?^?*?,r*? ^^'^^h ^19^. Balls, &c.,

Frank Billet. 300 illustrations. Y^'^ ^J descriptive Du-actions ; the

- , , ' Art of Secret Wntmg ; I raining of

ManKy-Panky : Performing Animals, &c. Coloured

Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult Frontispiece and many Illustrations.

Tricks, White Magic, Sleight of Hand
Edited by W.H.Crkmkr. 200 lusts.

The Merry Circle :
A Book of New Intellectual Games

The Secret Out

One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and
other Recreations ; with Entertaining
Experiments in Drawing-room or

and Amusements. By Clara Bbllkw. "White Magic." By W. H. Crkmbr.

Many Illustrations. 300 Engravings.

Shakespeare :

Shakespeare, The First Polio. Mr. William Shakespeare's

Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true
Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. Blunt,
1623. — A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile
by a photographic process — ensuring the strictest accuracy in every detail.
Small 8vo, half-roxburgh, 75. dd,

Shakespeare, The Vanstone. Beautifully printed in red

and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile cf
Drokshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7J. td.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Crown 4to. cloth gilt, xos.dd.

Shakespeare Music, The Handbook of. Being an Account of

350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of
Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Roffh. 4to, half-roxburgh, 7*.

Shakespeare, A Study of. By Algerian Charles Swine

FURNB. Crown 8vo cloth extra 8x.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, bj.

Senior's Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William
Senior (red Spinner), Author of" By Stream and Sea."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gut, with lo fall-page Tinted Illustrations, js.6d.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. ; with a Collection of Sheridaniana,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with ico Illustrations, yj. 6d.

Signboards :

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By Jacob L atwood and John Camden Rotten
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6j. 6d, ~~

Slang Dictionary, The :

Etymological, Historical, and Anecdotal. An Entirely New
Edition , revised throughout, and considerably Enlarged.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2J. 6d.

Smoker's Text-book, The. By j. Homer, f.r.s.l .

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 5J.

Spalding's Elizabethan Demonology :

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.
Crown 4to, with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, los. 6d.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. Tory. Illustrations in Colours bv Walter J, Morgan.
A New Edition, small crown Bvo, cloth extra, 5^.

Staunton. — Laws and Practice of Chess ;

Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End
Games. By Howard Staunton. Edited by Robert B . World.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gs.

Seaman.— Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Seaman.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Stevenson. — Familiar Studies in Men and

Books. By R. Louis Stevenson, Author of " With a Donkey in the
Cevennes." &c. nearly ready.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 51.

Stories about Number Nip,

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children, by Walter

Grahame. With Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

Two Vols., crown Bvo, cloth extra, 215.

Stories from the State Papers,

By Alex. Charles Weald, Fas. A , Author of " The Life of Prince
Charles Stuart," &c. With an Autotype Facsimile.



Two Vols., crown 8vo, with numerous Portraits and Illustrations, 24J.

Strain.— Twenty Years of a Publisher's

Life, By Alexander Strain.

\Inthc pres' .

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6d,

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People

of England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140
Illustrations. Edited by William Hone.

Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, js. 6d,

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,
and House Accommodation.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the
Maps in the Original Edition of "Tulliver's Travels."

Swinburne's Works :

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.
Fcap. 8vo, $5.
Atlanta in Corydon.

A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6«.

Chastelstrd.

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 7*.

Poems and Ballads.

First Series. Fcap. Bvo, gs. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.

Second Series. Fcap. 8vo, gs. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Notes on "Poems and Ballads."

8vo, I*.

William Blake :

A Critical Essay. With Facsimile
Paintings. Demy 8vo, 16*.

Songs before Sunrise.

Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

Bothwell :

A Tragedy Crown Svo. ttc. ^^

George Chapman :

An Essay. Crown 8vo, 71.

Songs of Two Nations.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

Essays and Studies.

Crown 8vo, 12 J.

Erechtheus :

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Note of an English Republican

o-n the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, u.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

A Study of Shakespeare.

Crown 8vo, 8j.

Songs of the Springtide.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

Studies in Song.

Crown Svo, js.

Mary Stuart :

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, Zs.

Small diu, cloth extra, lUusiraied, 25J.

Sword, The Book of the :

Being: a History of the Sword, and its Use. in all Countries from
the Earliest Times. By Captain Richard Burton. With over 400

Illustrations {/n preparation.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d,

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and In Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustrations,
in Colours, and Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten,

Four Vols, small 8vo, cloth boards, 301.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
•,• Also a Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15^.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6s,

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.

One VoL crown Bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

the Foot's
and Passion."
\* The Plays may also be had separately, at Is. each.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and numerous
Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thackerayana :

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Hundreds of Wood Engravings, facsimile from
Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by ALLAN Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, vdth numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury's (Walter) Haunted London.

A New Edition, Edited by Edward Walford, M.A., with numerous
Illustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Times' Clubs and Club Life in London.

With Anecdotes of its famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns,
By John Times, F.S.A. With numerous prostrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Times' English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters, &c. By JoaN Times,
F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations.

Demy Bvo, cloth extra, 14J.

Torrens' The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol, /. of Proconsul
and Tribune: Wellesley and O'Connell: Historic
Portraits. By W. M. Torrens, M.P. In Two Vols.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 95.

Tunis : the Land and the People.

By Erne t von He sse War egg. With 2 2 fine Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations, 7J. 6d,

Turner's (J. M. W.) Life and Correspondence:

Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow-academicians.
By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition, considerably
Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile
from Turner's original Drawings.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground Plans, 14J.

Walcott's Church Work and Life in English

Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Rev.
Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.

Large crown 8vo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler :

or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation : being a Discourse of^Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations.

The Twenty-second Annual Edition, for 1882, cloth, full gilt, 50J.

Walford's County Families of the United

Kingdom. By Edward Walford, M. A. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country Addresses.

Clubs, &c. [7«-f^ ready.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, y. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Merrier England in the Olden j Low-life Deeps. An Account

Time. By George Daniel, With I of the Strange Fish to be found there.
Illustrations by Root. Cruikshank. By James Greenwood.

The Old Showmen and the Old Seven Generations of Execu-

London Fairs. By Thomas Frost. tones : Memoirs of the Samson

The Wilds of London. By Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by

James Greenwood. Henry Samson.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ; The World Behind the Scenes.

Including the Origin of Signs, and i ^V Percy Fitzgerald.

Reminiscences connected with t London Characters. By Henry

Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. Mathew. Illustrated.

By Charles Hinder. With lusts. The Genial Showman Life

Circus Life and Circus Celebrated Adventures of Artemus' Ward,

ties. By Thomas Frost. By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece

The Lives of the Conjurers. Wanderings in Patagonia ; or,

By Thomas Frost. Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By

The Life and Adventures of a Julius Beerbohm. illustrated.
Cheap Jack. By One of the Frater Summer Cruising in the South

city. Edited by Charles Kindly. Seas. By Charles Warren Stod-

Theory of the London Parks, j card, illustrated by Wallis Ma«-
By Jacob Haywood. With lusts. ' ^^y.

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., m.

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price 2j.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and a
Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 4J. Sd.

Westropp's Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or. History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Post 8vo, cloth limp-zs. 6d.

What shall mv Son be P

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their
Sons. By Francis Covenant, Mea.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v. Ruskin ; Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler.
A VERY HANDSOME Volume Large 410, cloth extra, 31J. 6d.

White Mountains (The Heart of the) :

Their Legend and Scenery. By Samuel Adams Drake. With
nearly 100 Illustrations by W. Hamilton Gibson, Author of
Pastoral Days."

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2j. 6d.

Williams' A Simple Treatise on Heat.

By W. Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., F.C.S.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, dr.

Wooing (The) of the Water Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By EvAN Daldorne. lUust.byJ. Moor Smith.
Crown 8vo, half-bound, i2J. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way Matters. By
Eli ever Edwards.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Wright's Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs,
Broadsides, Window Pictures, &c . By Thomas Wright. M.A., F.S.A.

Large post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Wright's History of Caricature and of the

Grotesque in Art, Literature, Sculpture, and Painting. By Thomas
Wright, F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A,

J. OGDBM AND CO., Printers, 172, ST. JOHN Street, B.C.

i^^K

OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS


D374 i
V.2

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

FOR CASH ONLY. By James Payn. 3 vols.

Crown 8vo.

THE MARTYRDOM OF MADELINE. By

Robert Buchanan, 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin

IMcCarthy. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

A HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles

Gibbon. 2 vols. Crown Svo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tatler.

2 vols. Crown Svo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

H gfotrs

By OUIDA

AMOR CH' A NULLO AMATO AMAR Persona'

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. n.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[/4// rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

IN MAREMMA.

CHAPTER XV.

Being this second summer that
lie passed upon the moors, early
in a May morning, when lie was
out on the waters, there was a
vessel standing off the shore ; a rare sight
there, for, though many sailing ships and
steamers passed in the offing, no one of them
ever came close in, unless it were a tartan
coasting, much less did any cast anchor
anywhere nearer than Civitas Vecchia one
way, or Livorno the other.

This vessel, however, a comely barque
of Sicilian rice, a bric of some 100 tons, lead

VOL. Iii



paused in her course for her crew to fish,
as in the clear water a shoal of tunny had
been seen, and the nets had been thrown in
amidst it. The men hailed her in her boat,
and asked her some questions as to the
soundings and the coast ; for there was a
fog on the horizon, a white fog like a
silver veil, and they thought it meant wind
and water both, and they were strangers.

She answered them willingly, for she
thought well of all sailors; and their
skipper, a young fellow and handsome,
whose first voyage it was on these seas, ashe
was of Palermo and had always traded
eastward, pulled himself out to her in his
loner-boat, and threw into her little skiff
some oranges and other fruit. As they were
from a sailor she took them, and let him see
her white shell-like teeth in a smile like
sunshine in a storm. When she pulled her
boat to shore, he pulled his too inland ;
and when she stepped through the shallow
water and the sands, he stepped beside her.

He was very handsome, with a going,
sun-warmed beauty, like one of his own
Sicihan fruits. He was but twenty-three
years of age ; his heart was warm, and his
head was hot. He said to her ;

Maiden, where I come from the land is
beautiful as the sea is ; the shores laugh ;
the hills are rich as a mother's breasts for
her first-born ; men and women live on
fruit and wine, and song and love ; yet not
in my own Sicilia did ever I see so handsome
a maiden as art thou ! '

And this he said in his own soft amatory
Sicilian tongue, which is like the flow of
honey from the lip of a ewer of gold.

She looked straight at him and frowned
a little.

I took your fruit, friend, because you
gave me it with good friendliness ; if you
clog it with lies, I will fling it in the
waves.'

The Sicilian stared at her hard with
his brown starry eyes ; then he laughed allover
his face.

Lies ? I said never a truer word. But
if it displease you, so much the wiser are
you. Tell me, who are you ? Nay, do tell
me, I pray of you.'

I am no one,' said Musa, curtly. ' They
call me the Musoncella and the Delia. Go
you back to ^ your ship, and leave me to go
home.'

Where is your home ?

B '2

paused in her course for her crew to fish,
as in the clear water a shoal of tunny had
been seen, and the nets had been thrown in
amidst it. The men hailed her in her boat,
and asked her some questions as to the
soundings and the coast ; for there was a
fog on the horizon, a white for like a
silver veil, and they thought it meant wind
and water both, and they were strangers.

She answered them willingly, for she
thought well of all sailors ; and their
skipper, a young fellow and handsome,
whose first voyage it Alas on these seas, ashe
was of Palermo and had always traded
eastward, pulled himself out to her in his
honos-boat, and threw into her little skiff
some oranges and other fruit. As they were
from a sailor she took them, and let him see
her white shell-like teeth in a smile like
sunshine in a storm. When she pulled her
boat to shore, he pulled his too inland ;
and when she stepped through the shallow
water and the sands, he stepped beside her.

He was very handsome, with a going,
sun-warmed beauty, like one of his own
Sicilian fruits. He was but twenty three
years of age ; his heart Alas warm, and his
head was hot. He said to her :

Maiden, where I come from the land is
beautiful as the sea is ; the shores laugh ;
the hills are rich as a mother's breasts for
her first-born ; men and women live on
fruit and wine, and song and love ; yet not
in my own SiciHa did ever I see so handsome
a maiden as art thou ! '

And this he said in his own soft amatory
Sicilian tongue, which is like the flow of
honey from the lip of a ewer of gold.

She looked straight at him and frowned
a little.

I took your fruit, friend, because you
gave me it with good friendliness ; if you
clog it with lies, I will fling it in the
waves.'

The Sicilian stared at her hard with
his brown starry eyes ; then he laughed allover
his face.

Lies ? I said never a truer word. But
if it displease you, so much the wiser are
you. Tell me, who are you ? Nay, do tell
me, I pray of you.'

I am no one,' said Musa, curtly. ' They
call me the Musoncella and the Delia. Go
you back to ^ your ship, and leave me to go
home.'

Where is you: home ?
^'2

On the moors ; miles inland.'

May I visit you there ? '

No.'

He was silent a moment. Then he
spoke again with fire and force :

I am a stranger, and you answer me
rightly. But listen to me one little minute.
Nay, I am an honest man. I am Daniell
the son of Feboo, of the house of Villamagna.
I have been a seaman all my days, and now
I command the brig yonder, and own part
of her too, my fair Ausiliatrice ; as good a
brig as there sails on the high seas, trading
with fruit as far as the misty cold northern
coasts. That is all. But it is enough. I
would not change with princes. I am my
own master ; and yonder, in my island, I
have withal to keep a wife in comfort.
Now, look you, if you will be that wife I
will be a happy man. What say you ? '

He was only the rough skipper of a
coaster that made the chief profits of her
voyages for her merchant owners, not for
him. But he was a Sicilian ; he had fire in
his veins, fancy in his brain, passions in his
heart ; he had been born under the flame
and snow of the mighty Etna, and he had
been lulled to his sleep from infancy with

the sound of the waters that wash the Golden
Shell.

He was a sailor ; a son of rude Sicilian
mariners ; but love had stricken him through
the eyes, even as it struck great Dante,
gallant Ariosto, and grave Petrarca.

For in this land this sudden birth of
love is still a truth ; a fact, like the gold in
the lily's heart or the red in the pomegranate's
flower.

She stared at him, half enraged, half
amazed. Then she shrugged her shoulders
with a gesture of scorn and scepticism.

Go back and say that to your Sicilian
maidens. You remind me well that I have
spoken too long to a stranger.'

Then she shook his fruits down on to
the sands, and turned her back on him, and
began to walk homeward with the dog, who

had been in her boat beside her. The sailor
was stung and wounded, yet he approved her.
He stepped quickly on too, and kept pace
with her a moment.

As Jesu lives I speak in seriousness,
and swear you honest love. One flash of
your eyes to mine was enough ; that is how
we love in Sicilia. My eyes to your heart
say nothing, alas ! alas ! But this I swear

to you, oh cruel one and unjust ! I pass by
here in four months' time with my cargo
from the Scotch shores. Here I will land,
and, if you will meet me, I will say the
same again, and you shall go back with me
to my isle, and we will build you a nest in
the fig-tree and the cactus-hedge of my own
shore. There is my hand on it, as I am
Danielloo, son of Feboo, of the house of Villa-magna.'


He stood before her on the lonely beach,
and held out his hand ; he looked eager and
passionate, and youthful and handsome as a
young sea-god.

But he failed to touch her.
Her eyes laughed with incredulous scorn.
In four months — wee will see,' she said,
with the same incredulity in her accent as in
her glance.

In four months you shall see,' said the
sailor, with suppressed fury and pain. ' Oh,
maiden, with whom have you dwelt that
you have a heart like a stone to a man ? '

'What matters it?' she said, with a
shrug of her shoulders once more.

Her soul was dumb and blind as yet ;
she could not understand ; she thought him

mad, or in joke.

It will matter to you also, some day
said the Sicilian skipper.

Will you promise to be here on the
beach this day four months ? ' he pursued.
Come what winds and tides there may, here
will I be.'

Not I,' she answered him ; ' if you
want to see me, then you may fid me. But
you will not.'

I will find you,' he said passionately ;
you have said they call you a sea-bird and
the Musoncella.'

But ere he spoke she had taken to flight ;
going over the moist, red, moss-eaten earth
as the wary lapwing skims it when the nets
are spread in his sight. He could have
followed her, for he was young and fleet, buta
sense of awe and of timidity withheld him.
He looked after her a little while, then he
went back to his good brig.

It made no impression on Miisa ; her
senses were unawakened, like the sting of the
bee that lies undeveloped in the alveoli ; and
her emotions were more quickly moved to
anger than to pity. She ran on like a young
ostrich who hears the negroes after it, and
felt no safety till lie had plunged once more
into the friendly twilight of her home.

No thought of the future troubled her.

If the charcoal-burners never drove her
out, or the shepherds never found her
refuge and maltreated her, she feared
nothing. It seemed to her that she would
live on for hundreds of years, so, in that calm
unending solitude, in that dreamful quiet
place.

'EANWHILE that morning, Zirlo,
lying on the wild thyme and
grass, was accosted by two
strangers who were wandering
over the moors on a vain quest for an Etruscan
city, which was marked on old maps as
lying to the south of San Lionardo.

These persons looked down on to the
little faun-like figure of the shaggy child
and his upraised pretty face, and said to
him : ' My little man, can you tell us of any
buried tombs, or any great old walls, known
hereabouts ? '

Zirlo rose up on his rosy feet and put his
hand up against his eyes as if he were
dazzled by the sun, and he answered at once
and sturdily : ' No ; I never heard of any
such thing.'

Try and think again. Look at this. It
strengthens memory marvellously. If you
can lead us to any such old places under the
ground, this shall be yours.'

This was a broad silver coin — a whole
scudo in solid silver !

Zirlo felt as if he were giddy.
There is no such place he stammered ;
but his accent was unsteady and his eyes
fastened on the silver bit glancing in the
sun-rays.

'There is such,' said the stranger with

insistence, 'and I think you know" it very

well, and if you will bring us to it this

scudo shall be yours. Come, my little lad,

you will earn it cheaply.'

Zirlo grew red, grew pale, shuffled his
feet on the turf, trembled, longed, feared,
denied ; then longed again.

You will not hurt her if I show you ? '
he said wistfully.

The strangers laughed.

What should we hurt ? We are only
travellers, artists, archaeological. We will dono
harm, little man ; we will only give you
that money and as much again if you lead
us aright.'

Zirlo was silent in an agony of hesitation.

'It is a cave you want? ' he stammered,
with coffins, and painted walls, and pipkin
strewn about ? '

Yes, yes,' they said eagerly ; ' you
know where to lead us. Come, go on,
and we will follow you. Your goats can
come to no danger here in this solitude.
Why are you doubting about such a simple
tiling'

Zefferino grew very white, his hands
clenched nervously together, his teeth chattered
as with cold ; he was afraid of his
own perfidy and of her vengeance. But the
silver scudo ! — it tempted him as the ' Dio del
Oro ' tempts alike in desolate country places
as in crowded cities. What would it not buy !
The boy, whose stomach was never full, and
whose appetite was always keen, shook with
the intensity of his longing.

And the place is as much mine as it is
hers ; ' he thought, with a sophism that came
to him by nature.

Yet she had trusted him, and she had
threatened him. Between his desire and his
dread the little fellow was like one torn in
twain by wild horses.

I dare not ! ' he said at last, with a
piteous sobbing and shivering.

'The dead whom we seek had that
passion, and it is the only human passion
that is immortal,' said his companion. ' You
were too quick to pay the greedy little imp ;
dio knows whether he has cheated us or
not ? This may be but a fox's earth.'

Foxes have no stairs, and we can soon
see for ourselves,' said the other, and he
descended into the aperture and felt his way
down the steps, and at the foot of them
stood still in surprise at the tomb that was
Musa's home.

It was a grand tomb, he saw, Etruscan
beyond doubt, and more perfect than most of
these graves are when once the light of day
and the eyes of curious mortality have fallen
on them and found them out beneath their
veil of myrtle and of bay leaves.

The stone biers, the stone chairs, the
black pottery, the niche for the dog, the
various paintings, all were Etruscan beyond
question ; but on the earthen floor there
were the sticks and ashes of a spent fire ;
in the platter and one of the cups there
were milk and bread and wild fruits, in a
corner were a spinning wheel and a mandoline.


Some one must live here,' they said one

to another, and understood wliy the child
had been so afraid to brin them to it.

This is a coffin of to-day ! ' cried one of
them, who had penetrated into the third
chamber, where old Joconda lay.

Some one lives here, sleeps and eats
here, and here buries his dead,' said his
companion. ' A Avoman it must be, for here
are female clothes and the distaff

It is strange,' replied the other. ' But
it is a grand tomb, and finely preserved. Let
us make sketches while we can.'

And they sat down and spread out the
colours they carried with them, for they were
both artists, and one was a scholar. The
latter sketched the proportions of the chambers
of death, and copied the strange figures
of the dancing women, of the winged boys,
of the lotus flowers. The other made a
drawing of the spinning wheel and the
mandoline and the blackberry boughs that
were thrown, ftdl of berries, across an Etruscan
dish, while a bronze lamp stood on the
floor beside a bowl full of yellow marsh lilies.

The one would serve for some grand
cartoon of an Etruscan marriage feast or
burial banquet. The other would serve for
-some minute genre picture.

When Musa returned from her headlong
flight across the country, she saw at the first
france that her careful screen of brushwood
had been disturbed. Supposing that Zirlo had
so stirred it by his usual boisterous entrance,
she descended the steps, thinking thereto
find her playmate. But Leone growled
and looked at her for some word of command,
and she saw instead of the child the
two strangers, who were intent on examining
the paintings of the walls. She had no
conception of what the men were like ; it
was enough for her that they were human
creatures, violators of her sanctuary and of
the dead.

She advanced to them with all her i-Ace
dark as the summer skies in tempest, and
her eyes flashing like lightning.

How dare you. How dare you,' she
cried with intense passion. ' All this is mine
and theirs. You profane it, you blaspheme.
Out of it ! Out of it ; or I will send the dog
upon you ! '

The two men stared at her, confused, and
dimly almost doubting whether she were
mortal, so sudden was her descent into the
twilight of the cave, so burning and furious
were her eyes and words.

Pardon us,' said one, with hesitation.
Is this Etruscan tomb your care in anyway
? We did not know. We sought for a
sepulchre that is marked on ancient maps.
A little boy, a Httle goatherd, brought us
here. If we offend '

She turned very pale.

A goatherd ! Zirlo ? '

How should I know his name ? ' said
the stranger. 'A little long-haired, barelegged
fellow. I am grieved if you are distressed,
but how were we to know ? '

Zirlo ! Zirlo ! ' she said again, with a
bitter wondering sadness in the words that
touched her listeners, though they could not
understand its cause, and thought she was
but jealous of the custody of the tombs and
of the silver scud.

'If,' began one of them, holding out
a French gold piece ; but his very breath
was caught and stopped by the girl's imperious
gesture.

Get you gone or I shall hurt you ! * she
said, as she motioned to the stairs. ' This is
my house, my home, my temple, my grave,
ray all ! The boy betrayed me. He is vile.
Get you gone ! '

She is mad,' they murmured one to

VOL. 11. c

another, awed by her anger, which they
could not comprehend, and dazzled by her
beauty.

Get you gone, or the dog shall tear
you ! ' she said, with a passion that was the
more intense because restrained. ' The place
is mine. I am here with my dead. Get
you gone ! '

Let us go,' said the men to each other,
and they did go, slowly, and looking back
at her, and doubting still whether she were
mortal, and, if mortal, mad.

Mad, surely ! ' they said one to the
other, and one of them added :

It is best to humour her. But we will
go back again. She is beautiful. It must
be she who owns the spinning wheel and
the guitar.'

Left to herself she sat quite still, and
hot tears gushed into her eyes.

Zirlo, Zirlo ! ' she repeated. ' And I
loved him ! '

There is no knife that cuts so
sharply, and with such poisoned blade, as
treachery.

Time went over her head uncounted.
She sat there, lost in the intense pain that
consumed her at this her first taste of

the bitter-sweet apple of human confidence
and friendship.

She had trusted him and he had betrayed
her.

It seemed to her that fire ought to
descend from the skies and smite him, and
burn up his Httle, weak, false, worthless
life. She did not know that if this vengeance
overtook human falsehood the skies
would be for ever as a scroll in flames.

She sat there a lone time motionless.
Then she was seized with a deadly fear.
Had they come for Joconda's body ?

She went into the third chamber, and
there she found the wooden cofhn untouched,
the flowers she had laid there undisturbed,
and the lamp burning steadily.

She left it, and ascended the stairs, and
looked over the moors.

The day was dying down, and the grand
red glory of the west blinded her for a
moment as she looked on it from the gloom
of the tombs. There are no sunsets more
gorgeous than those on the sea of the Maremma,
and their pomp of gold and purple is
a mockery of kings.

This day the gold was burning behind a
transparent cloud of dusky blue, and the

o2

scarlet, soft, yet intense as the colour of
pomegranate flowers, glowed above it, and
melted into the azure of the still shining
skies. The moorlands were dark and
hushed ; the sea was the hue of the zenith.

She looked, and her eyes filled.

Then, far gff, very far off, she saw a little
dark figure, black against the ruby and the
gold. All her rage sprang back into her
heart, and she ground her teeth like a wolf.
She wound her short and narrow skirt
about her limbs, and with bare feet and
bare shoulders leaped across the grass and
ran like a greyhound.

He was half a mile off. In his babyish
cunning he thought that, if he were near at
hand with his goats, she would think him
innocent. Seeing her, across the moorland,
coming towards him, swift and silent as the
wind, his cunning deserted him, and his
fear alone mastered him. He fled.

She gained on him nearer and nearer.
No fawn of those wild meadows was swifter
on her feet than she ; she ran as the Greek
girls ran of old in the arena, in the springtime
of their lives and of the year.

The dark elastic turf, the lightsome wood-moss,
rebounded from Tier touch ; she sprang

through the sunset glow of the air as the doe
springs.

The boy, leaden-footed with terror, and
not fully braced as she was to the movement
of his limbs, tumbled forward rather
than ran, and in his blind and palsied
terror gained no ground, but stumbled
round and round in a circle.

With every moment she drew nearer
to him. He thought he felt her hands
amidst his hair, her breath against his
cheek, her steel upon his throat. He put
the silver coins that were the price of his
treachery between his teeth, and his teeth
chattered so that he scarce could keep their
hold upon the treasure for which he had
lost his own soul and her trust and love.
He ran on and on, falling forward in his
terror, and plunging into watery grasses,
slimy, and sinking under him. The glow
faded, the sun had sunk to light the nether
world. It was night ; still he ran on and on,
and she ran in his wake. At last, as the moon
rose above the distant hills, lie reached
him, and he fell prone under her grasp.

She stood over him, and to his terrified
eyes she seemed to grow in stature and
dilate until she touched the stars.

You betrayed my shelter ! ' she said
aoiain, and lier hands fell on his shoulders
and she swayed him to and fro till the
glittering vault of the night seemed to rock
about him.

Oh, miserable ! ' she cried to him ; and
the deep intense scorn of her voice seemed
to roll like the notes of an organ over the
solitary land. ' You betrayed me for silver
pieces as Judas betrayed his Lord ! Do you
know that I could kill you, you mean
and wretched thing ; you so small and
so light, and I as strong as the buffalo?
Do you know that I can dash out your
brains on these stones, and hurl you dead
into the sea, and wherefore should I not,
you vile and faithless worm, viler than the
adder and the newt ? '

As she spoke she swung him backwards
and forwards, and he was dumb and blind
with horror ; his eyes gazed up into the sky,
but saw nothing.

He believed she would take his life.

I trusted you, I trusted you ! ' she said
to him ; and it seemed to him as if her
grasp were closing at his throat, and pressing
the breath and the air and the life out
of it.

An unutterable terror kept him mute
and motionless ; the whiteness of the moonlight
shone on his ghastly little face, and its
abject fear stung her to disgust, that made
her rage seem too high an honour to so
cowardly a thing.

She threw him off her some distance, so
that he fell heavily on the turf.

You are a traitor ! ' she said ; and her
voice rang loud through the night. ' I will
not hurt you. You are too vile. But come
never in my sight. Breathe never the air I
breathe. If you were dying, never would I
lift a finger of mine to save you. I trusted
you, you base, false, foolish, trembling
thing, and you lost my trust for a silver
coin ! Oh you fool, oh you fool ! '

Then little Zirlo, lying where she had
flung him, saw her for a moment, seeming to
him to touch the stars, and gather all their
brilliancy about her hair and shoulders and
luminous fire-flashing eyes, and the night
appeared to snatch her up into itself, and a
great darkness fell between them, and he
was all alone.

Musa, convulsed with passion that was
still but half spent, went slowly away from
the spot through the luminous aii', and

retraced her steps until once more she satin
the shadow of those solemn chambers
which now were hers no more, but opened
to the world of men.

A shudder of rage shook her from head
to foot ; then she bowed her head down
upon her knees, and wept bitterly.

She had been betrayed.

Kinder than treachery is the knife that
severs the cord of life.

It was her home, this temple of the
dead, this sanctuary of the lonely moors
that sheltered her and Joconda.

It was her home, and stood in the stead
to her of all those ties and defences which
surround the lives of other female creatures.
Here she had been safe ; her only visitants
the timid hare, the friendly goat, the winters
lizard, and the night-birds that
love gloom and silence.

Now all that sweet calm sense of
security was gone for ever. Strangers any
day might come and disturb her and the
dead in their tacit amity, and drive her, as
they would drive the scops from his hole ina
tree, or a fox from the refuge of the tombs.
She knew nowhere else to go in all the world ;
she had no other home, no other friends.



The child knew that, and yet he had
sold her for silver !

As she sat in the darkness of these
chambers, where the moon-rays could not
come, she wondered that she had not killed
him.

What had held her hand ?

Not fear, of a surety, nor pity ; some
awful sense of unutterable strength and
scorn, set high above herself and him as
the stars were, which had come upon her as
she had gazed up into the brilliancy of the
shining summer heavens.

!N the following iiiorniDg lie was
sitting outside the tombs, plaiting
([J^^r^ the h'lodo^ with her mind still
darkened and her spirits still troubled by
the treachery of ZeiFerino. Her rage had
been like a styptic, and in a measure had
cauterised the pain she felt, but it was
sorrow as much as wrath that filled her heart
this morning ; she had been fond of the
child and had trusted him, and he had sold
for silver her secret, her peace, her safety ;
since all security for her depended, as she
knew well, on no one being aware of the
existence of the sepulchres.

It was, therefore, with heavy and anxious
thoughts that she plaited on at her rushes in

SqIi'^us 'paludosus.

the early day, whilst the bees buzzed about
the yellow-flowered corolla, and the jewel-like
snakes crept harmlessly under the
emerald leaves of the wake-robin.

Her worst fears took definite shape as,
between her and the glory of the morning
rays, pouring down over the mountains
behind her, there came a human figure.

His back was to the sun and she could
not discern his features, but there was that
about him which made her sure it was one of
those to whom Zirlo had sold her — the one
who had spoken most to her.

Her first instinct was of flight, as it is
that of all other moorland creatures at sight
of an invader of their solitudes. Her next
was a bolder one ; she rose, thrust her
plaiting down on the ground, and went
forward to meet him. Her eyes blazed as
they had done the night before ; her teeth
were set.

How dare you to come hither again ? '
she shouted across the heather and the lioly-
thorn, the corolla and broom, that parted
him from her. ' How dare you ? I forbade
you. This land belongs to me. Get you
gone, or I will force you to repent of it.'

The stranger paused humbly and looked

at her over the golden flowers of the corolla
and the broom.

May I speak one word to you ? ' he said
gently.

The man who drew near her was about
thirty years old ; he was tall and strongly
made ; his face was delicate and full of
thought; it had not much beauty, except
that which was due to the luminance of
expression, and the colour and largeness, of
his clear blue eyes. It was a physiognomy
strange to her, for it was entirely northern.

He came on as quickly as the prickly
shrubs, and the creepers that laced them
together, would allow him to do. He was
looking at her with an expression of keen
interest, and she stood awaiting him with
knitted brows and dark suspicious glances,
ankle-deep in cinquefoil and saintfoin.

Are you not she whom the shore
people call the Delia and the Masons


Yes,' she answered angrily ; ' what is
that to you ? '

It is much,' he said gently, being as
fearful of her taking flight ere she could hear
him as the bird-catcher is of alarming the
lapwing when it is turning its crested head

in innocent curiosity to the nets he spreads.
It is much. I will tell you who I am — I
am the grandson of Joachim Sanctis.'

All the rage and the imperious scorn
went out of her face ; she was amazed and
awed.

You are of her people ! ' she said under
her breath ; then, with the lapwing's caution,
she drew back her momentarily awakened
sympathies.

'Maybe you only lie,' she said with
impatience. ' Any one on the shore knows
that I lived with Joconda. It is very easy
to say this ; and you crept into my house
yesterday while I was away as a fox
creeps into the moorhen's nest when she is
absent.'

I am no fox, indeed,' he said with a
faint smile, ' and I mean you nothing but
friendliness. Here is Joconda's letter, written
to Joachim, who has been dead five and
thirty years and more, when I was not born
myself.' ^

Across the morning light and the amber
blossoms she glanced at the letter which the
public letter-writer had penned in ceremonious
and very flowery language ; but she
did not take it.

I knew nothing about the letter,' she
said suspiciously. ' And how did you come
to have it. It was not written to you.'

No ; it was written to my grandfather
and his brother. Both are dead. All are
dead of her generation. There is a bailiff in
the farmhouse she knew. The letter went
to the priest down at Cogne, and he sentit
on to me. But I was in Asia, and never
received it till this spring, when I returned
from the East ; and when, as I landed at
Naples, I got it, I resolved to come and see
you and Joconda. At Santa Tarsilla I heard
of her death, and of you no one could tell
me anything. I have roamed about your
Maremma to look for you. Yesterday, a
friend who travelled with me wanted to find
out these tombs ; and when I saw you I felt
sure that you were the " Musa " of Joconda's
letter, only I would not speak before the
other man. I slept up at a wretched place,
San Lionardo, and at sunrise came to see
you. That is all. I do not know why you
should doubt me.'

She was silent, unconvinced, yet a little
touched by his words and troubled at the
thought that one of her dead friend's blood
should be living and standing before her.

Why did you look for me ? ' she said
curtly.

The letter asked Joachim to befriend
you if she died ; I thought I ought to do
what he would have done.'

That was kind.'

If it were I have more than my
reward'

The flattery passed by her unseen, making
no more imprint than the dew as it rolls
off a cabbage-leaf.

I do not see why you should care,'
she said at length ; meaning what she
said.

But I did care,' he said with some
anger. He did not add, ' because Joconda
said that you were beautiful, and alone, and
I love all beautiful things, and I pity all
lonely ones.'

She stood silent, looking at him, musing.

Come to her,' she said abruptly and yet
with a great tenderness in her voice ; and she
motioned him to follow her into the chamber
where the coffin of poplar-wood lay in the
twilight of mother earth.

She knelt down by it and kissed the
rough wood.

Dear and good friend,' she murmured,

canst thou not hear ? Thy people forgot
thee so long, but at last they have repented
and remembered

Then, kneeling still, she prayed in Latin,
as she had been taught, to the God who was
to her a vast, unknown, incomprehensible
Spirit brooding on the face of the waters and
smiling with the sunbeams of the morning.

Maurice Sanctis felt his eyes grow moist,
and he bent his knee beside her ; though for
prayer and paternoster he had the easy
scorn of a modern student, yet for the old
faith that moved the simple hearts of the
women of his family he kept a reverent
indulgence.

When Musa rose her face had grown
tender, and had lost the suspicion and the impatience
with which she had received him.
He seized that moment of softer feeling to
draw from her some account of how she
lived there, and why, and of how her early
years had passed in Joconda's house.

She told him, simply and frankly, having
nothing to conceal ; and unconscious of how
her narrative made her short history stand
before his mind's eye in as bold and pure
and heroic hues as those of a Pathetic
frieze. What added to his interest was his

own knowledge of the blood of Saturnino
that ran in her veins, her parentage having
been written by Joconda's scribe on a
separate page that he had not offered to her.
From the dragon had come forth, not indeed
a dove, but a white-winged curlew,
strong aUke on sea and moor.

But how is her coffin here ? ' he asked
with surprise, after long silence.

She told him how she had brought it
there.

He listened Avitli emotion.

You are as faithful as a dog,' he said ;
it is not southern, such constancy.'

She did not understand ; she knew nothing
of any divisions and races of men.

'Do you not think she would have
wished to be with me ? ' lie said, anxiously.

I am sure that she would. Who of us
all cares to lie alone in the black earth with
the worms? You loved her much, it
seems ? '

Lie was good, and I was too thankless.
I know it now ; now it is of no use.'

My poor child ! We all feel that wJieu
we have lost what served us. When my
father lay dead before me I seemed to myself
to have l)een a very brute, living all for

VOL. II. D

my own aims and pleasures in Paris, not
giving a thought to the old man by the
lake, who would fain have had me Jive all
my life where I could look upon Mont
Blanc ; and very likely I shall go and live
there ere I die. When you are mountain-born
you use cities, you do not love them.'

Is Paris a city ? ' she asked.

The city of cities.'

Where is it ? Is it far from here ? '

Will you come with me and see it ? '

He spoke half in jest, half in earnest.
She took the question literally, without its
seeming strange to her.

I would never go where roofs lie close
together,' she said ; ' how can the people
bear it ? always breathing others breath
instead of the honey smell of the flowers.'

It is a false taste ; like choosing wine
rather than water. So you are wed-ded to
your Maremmano moors ? '

I love Maremma,' she answered him,
slowly ; for she had never been called on to
analyse and express what she felt. Then
she added :

'Where is that other gone who was
with you ? '

He is gone back to Genoa, to go to

Vienna, where he lives. Did he please you,
that you ask ? '

Please me ! I am only afraid that he
may come back, or tell others of these
tombs. I wish that you did not know of
them

'Why?'

Because it is the solitude that I care
for, and if people know of them, travellers
will come and look ; they do wherever there
are huche delle fate ; and if the shepherds
find it out they will drive me away and
stable themselves in my stead ; it would be
much better for a shepherd than this hut,
because in storms and very cold nights he
could drive his flock in with him.'

Sanctis gazed at her in amazement.

But — but you do not mean that you
think in all seriousness of staying here all
your life long ? '

That is what I hope to do.'

Good God ! Have you no other dream
for your future ? '

Musa knitted her brows angrily.

What better can there be ? I have all
I want. I can maintain myself very well.
I am in the midst of the birds, and of the
beasts. There is the air in my mouth, tho

D 2

Ivied ou my face, whenever I choose. I am
content. In summer time it is too hot perhaps,
and they say the steam of the marshes
is bad to breathe, though never has it hurt
me ; but to hive here is good, so good ! I
do not know what cities may be like, but I
know that I will never go to one. Men and
women make me angry, cruel, wicked ; I
never am with them that they do not ; they
are so mean, they are so cowardly, they are so
greedy. But here I am content, and I think,
wherever she is, she is content with me.'

Maurice Sanctis was silent ; he was moved
by that intense and reverent remembrance
of the dead woman ; he was bewildered at
this creature's absolute ignorance of her own
physical charm, and of the passions and the
hopes that agitate humanity, and illuminate
for youth its visions of love. He was loth
to disturb her repose. Besides, he saw that
he would speak to her in an unknown
tongue ; he saw that she was a child entirely
in thought and feelings:.

The early hours of the morning grew
warmer, and the noon chimes swung drowsily
in many a belfry in little villages upon
the shore and on the plains ; Sanctis remained
there in the shadow of the burial

place, breaking this fast with her oaten
bread, and " drinking the spring water Iron
the ivory-handled rhyton that had served
the funeral feasts of the dead Liicumo.

Musa had resumed her plaiting of the
biodo. and Alas all the while longinus for
lira to be gone. He was sacred to her, but
he was not welcome ; and all the while,
also, the treachery of the little curly
cherub-faced Zirlo was heavy at her heart.

He had sold her for a silver piece !

As she plaited she had a rebellious
and unwilling look, as if this stranger held
her captive instead of being but a visitor
there ; a guest, sharing her bread. She was
vaguely distrustful of him ; his hands where
so white, his linen so fine.

Joconda was poor,' she said, abruptly ;
you are not a poor man.'

No, I am not. Anton, the son of
Joachim — named after his brother Anton —
went to live in Geneva, and owned small
craft upon the lake. He throve, and earned
bigger boats, and built them for himself,
and at last became owner of lake-steamers,
and made much money. He was a simple
hard-living man to the last, and saved all
the money he made. I am his only son ; I

inherited all he had, years since. I myself
am a painter of pictures, and live in Paris.
Men call me famous, but I do not think I
am worth as much as were Anton and Joan
Now,' he continued, almost solemnly,
will you not come with me ? My dear, do
not be afraid ; you will be sacred to me
beyond everything. I will take you to
sisters of mine, who live upon our lake
in such a green wooded place ; in spring
it is a bower of apple and pear blossom,
and rosy chestnut flowers. I swear by that
good dead woman, whom her kin forsook
and you have cherished, that we will be
tenderness itself to you, and make your life a
fairy story. Now, answer me, you will come ?
I do not ask you to come to a city ; you will
come to mountains grander than yours, and
to wider waters and healthier winds.'

'All these words are very well,' said
Musa, with scorn ; ' but why did you all let
her live and die alone ? '

It was wrong,' said Sanctis ; ' but mine
was not the blame, nor was it my father's.
Joachim and Anton had hated and opposed
her marriage, and in later times resented
her silence. For want of a word lives often
drift apart.'

Was not a Maremmano mariner as
good as a cow keeper in Savoy ? ' said Musa,
with continuous contempt.

It was the antagonism of races ; our
people came from Glarus, and were of
a Teuton stock,' said Sanctis ; and then remembered
that he was talking in an unknown
tongue to his companion. He added
quickly, ' I am very sorry that we let her
live so. But to me she was only a vague
name, she belonged to such a distant time ;
even my grandfather Joachim I never saw

She was mute. She was angered with
his intrusion on her solitude, and she was
resentful of that long neglect under which
Joconda had lived through so hard a life to
pass away in so lonely a death.

If he had been a shepherd, or a herdsman,
or a rude sailor, he might have
awakened her sympathies ; but there was
about him the atmosphere, as it were, of
another world than hers : a sort of look of
ease, of culture, of success, of all things
which were beyond her comprehension, yet
which alienated her.

He could not prevail on her to listen, nor
on himself to give up so easily what the dead
woman's letter had entreated her brethren

to do. He stayed a few days at Telamone,
at the wretched little wine-house which was
all the accommodation it could afford, and
hired a little felucca and sailed along the
coast to the Sasso Scritto, and thence, most
days, walked inland to the tombs. This displeased
her, and she made him feel it,
though she checked many a harsh word unuttered
because he was of Joconda's kindred.

He meekly asked her permission to finish
his sketches of the sepulchres, and she gave
it reluctantly, suspicious of a stranger's entrance
in those solitudes.

Often when ]ie arrived there to go on with
his careful drawings of the walls, he found
the place silent and empty ; she was away,
gone over the moors which she knew so welland
in whose mazes of vegetation it was hopeless
for him to follow her. She avoided him ;
he was allen to her, he was outside the pale
of her sympathies ; she had more friendship
for a sheldrake plunging and splashing
amongst the pond-lilies, for a porcupine ora
hedgehog creeping on its careful excursions
under the giant fennel. She vaguely
felt, as the gipsy feels it in the stranger who
accosts him, that he desired to take her
away from all this freedom. She did not

know the world he came from, but she
hated it without knowing it ; a work where
the roofs were close together, and the birds
were in cages, and the free air of heaven was
feared ; that was what she thought it, and
she was afraid lest he should in any way
compel her to go to it. She did not think
he would betray her, because he had
Joconda's clear blue eyes ; but she did not
breathe freely where he was ; it seemed to
her that he wanted to take her as the bird-snares
took the poor stream-swallows, to
carry them into cities and sell them, to have
a thread tied about their foot for housed
version.

I^NCE or twice he met her upon the
shore, and she gave him a curt
word or two, and pushed her boat
out into the water and sculled herself
out of sight. He was unwilling to alarm
or to scare her by too close pursuit, and
he began to feel that his journey here would
be fruitless. He was a man of honest purpose
and clear conscience ; he was incapable
of wronging, even by a wish, a child bequeathed
to the mercy of his people by a
dead woman, but he began to grow dissatisfied
and angry with his failure. He
had obtained some rare drawings of an un-mutilated
tomb of Etruria ; and this was
the sole result that seemed likely to accrue
to him from the waste of a midsummer
month.

The air, too, which gives ' distemper if
not death ' to the stranger, began to-work
its evil way on him. He began to lose
strength, to feel chilly, to have a touch
of fever ; the burning suns on the rank soil
began to pour their poison into his northern
blood. She met him on the twelfth day of
his stay at Telamone as she came home
towards sunset with wild strawberries and
blackberries as her afternoon's sleanint]^.

She looked at him and smiled a little.

Maremma makes you ill,' she said with
unconcealed contentment ; ' you are very
unwise to stay in it. The sun is always
angry with strangers. Why do you not go
away ? '

Dear, you know very well why I stay,'
said Sanctis gently and with humility. ' I
cannot bear to leave you here, all alone,
in so utter a solitude, in so wild a life.'

She frowned impatiently.

That is not for you to think about ;
myself I would not live elsewhere. It is
foolish of you to stay on at Telamone. You
may stay twelve weeks, twelve months,
twelve years, and you will not make me
live in any other way than I do. You will
only lose your own health

'You will lose yours. All the people

are sickly '

They are sickly chiefly because they
are dirty. The heats never hurt me ; I
bathe twice a day. But strangers are
always ill here. If they wait too long, they
die''

Do you wish that I should die ? '
No ; I do not. That is why I tell you
to go away while it is time. If you stay
much longer the fever will get in your
blood, in your bones, it will be like fire inside
you, and your limbs will feel to you no
better than the dry empty canes in autumn.
The fever has never touched me, but I have
seen it often ; and then there is the ague that
comes with it, and you shiver as if you
were up to your throat in snow, though the
air is like the blast of an oven round you.
It will be a pity if you wait for that. You
will never be the same man again after
it, even if you do throw it off you intime.'


But why are you so well here ? '
I do not know. Why are the roebuck
will, and the boars, and the hares .^ I
and they belong to the soil ; you are a
stranger.' ,

She belonged to the soil ; she was one
of those Etruscan Mastarna who had dwelt
on the slopes of the Apennines for so many
generations. He thought, as he looked at
her, should he tell her that she was the
daughter of Saturnino, would it make any
c'haDg;e in her? Would it render her more
willing to come away from a land soaked
YN^ith the blood of her father's prey ? Xo ;
he thought she would only cling more
closely there if she learned that one of her
race was in chains upon these shores ; and
she was so calm, so bold, so innocent, so
]proud, he had not the heart to say to her —
the man who stole your gold is the man
who gave you your life.'

He let her go home with her summer
fruits, and himself returned to the dreary
and unhealthy shore.

He had the hand of a painter, but he had
the heart of a mountaineer. What he loved
best were the rush of ice-fed waters, the stillness
of the great glaciers, the rarefied air
of the peaks and domes that towered above
the earth-hiding clouds. This sea-coast in
summer was loathsome to him, even whilst
this eyes saw and his soul acknowledged the
lovely liirht on its ametlivstine hills, the

transparent wonder of its distances, the
rose and the gold of its daybreak.

The enervating atmosphere seemed to
steal the strength from his sinews like
Delilah ; the squalor and the sickness in the
clustered hovels that were called a town
made him weary and depressed ; he grew
ill, as Musa had told him that he would do ;
he began angrily to feel that it was of no
use to lose his time and his powers only to
force on an unwilling ear what was unwelcome,
only to try and offer safety and ease
to one who scorned the one and could not
understand the other.

It seemed to him that it was his duty to
compel this lonely child to accept the succour
and the asylum whose benefit she
could not comprehend ; but then duty could
only be done by means that would be base.
He must resort to that betrayal of her which
would seem to her most vile. He must
state what he knew of her to the civic authorities
of Grosseto ; he must set at work
against her the machineries of that law against
which Saturnino's life had been one long
revolt. He must publish to her and everyone
that story of her birth which the rude
tenderness of Joconda had so carefully concealed.

The law should have to take her
for him as the decoy took the field-birds, and
when that was done he could show no right
to her ; Joconda's letter would be nothing
before the law, and the Musoncella would
be only to them the love-child of a galley-slave,
to be thrust into some public institute
at best, and forced into some social
groove without regard to how that pressure
hurt or drove lier desperate. Very possibly
the law would only treat her as a nomad,
as a vagabond, and he himself could have
no standing-point of legal right from which
to oblige her to receive his benefits.

What could he do ? It was a difficulty
which perplexed and began to sadden him.

This creature, who seemed to him so
beautiful, so fearless, and so redundant of
animated life that she appeared a very incarnation
of Artemis, was happy as she now
was, innocent as the wild doe of her own
oak-glades, and bold enough to defend her
innocence were it menaced.

Would not interference with her do more
harm than good P

He knew the danger that accompanies
meddlers, and he was of too modest a
temper to be sure of his own wisdom. He

had no hold on her ; that he felt. He
might as well have tried to make the wild
doe sit by his side.

He knew the force of hereditary instincts,
the strange and subtle influence of descent.
He knew that though the soul of the Tziijane
is full of music, and full of music are his
hands and his heart, yet if you try to teach
him the science of sound and make him play
from written notes he is dumb ; his very soul
dies in him. So he felt that with her would
it be impossible to take her from the melody
of the woods and the waters, to set her down
amidst conventional life.

Had she been dissatisfied and restless and
ashamed, he could have moved her easily to
some ambition, some curiosity ; but before
this absolute tranquillity of content, this fierce
repudiation of any possible better thing, he
was helpless. It was the content of the
pastoral Greek, the content of the Bedouin
Arab. It was a kingdom in itself, and a
kingdom not easily invaded or impaired. It
was like the invisible line drawn by the
magician — no step could pass it, no adamant
could oppose a barrier as strong.

She had aroused a strong pity within him,
and had a seduction for him in that classic

charm which hung about her as its fragrance
clings to the dried calycanthus.

He Avould willingly, without a single
selfish motive or ignoble thought, have done
for her at any cost any service ; but since she
only saw in the outstretched hand of friendship
the grasp of the gaoler, he knew not
what to do.

I am near my end ; save the child from
the sins she has inherited, from the loneliness
in which I leave her,' Joconda had
written to her brothers ; and this their descendant
was almost morbidly anxious to
fulfil her prayer. When he had received that
letter sent by a dead woman to his father's
father, his imagination lead been stirred by
the fcAv words that spoke with a yearning
fear of this storm-bird on the southern seashore.


He was rich in most of the blessings
of life, and his name was already illustrious
; love of the arts lent their beauty
to his daj's, and wherever he went men
welcomed him.

He was a man often lonely amidst troops
of friends, and a man to whom the thought
of duty was not irksome but readily welcome.
It had seemed to him so simple a thing to

VOL. II. £

give a home amongst his kindred to a child
who was all alone on earth. Pity and a
chivalrous charity had been at work in him,
but he found himself before a young Amazon
who would have nothing at his hands, an
Atlanta whom no golden apple would
tempt.

It was midsummer, and the miasma of
the country began, as she had said, to steal
the health out of his face and the marrow
out of his bones. It was time also for him
to be beside the high Biscay waves on the
west coast of France, where he had promised
to paint the frescoes of a great gallery ina
friend's Breton castle. Thinking, alone,
in the hot nights as the sails of the tartane
grew silvery under the moon, and the lights
of the hushing-boats glimmered in the deep
blue of the night, he reluctantly came to
the conclusion with a sigh that this greatest,
his only possible, kindness was to leave her
to herself

The conviction wounded his conscience
and hurt his self love, of which, however, he
had less than most people ; but to do otherwise
he would needs be harsh and treacherous.
He could not bring himself to be either ; it
seemed to him that she was the last of the

hamadryads, and he could not bring himself
to be the one who should snatch her from
her mossy couch and canopy of leaves to
drag her into the fictitious wants, the
artificial customs, and the, always in a
measure, vulgar strife of human life in
modern days.

Her manner of existence was like nothing
else now on earth ; it was like that of a
young priestess of Fauna or of Pales in the
Golden Age. He could not forcibly disturb
it any more than he, of a humane and a
poetic nature, could have plucked out of the
reeds the little blue warblers' nest in the
season of their love and in the spring-time
of the year. Would she have come willingly,
willingly would he have run all risks of
misconstruction and ridicule from his fellows
to do her loyal service in any way she chose.
But he could not use against her the pricks
and bands of that civil law of whose very
name she knew nothing : a law always cruel
in all lands to the homeless wanderer and to
the offspring of a criminal.

The law would not see, as he saw, the
innocence and beauty of that woodland life,
of that tender fidelity to dead Joconda, of
that serene independence of the help of man.

E 2

XvE^.T.0f.U.HO.

She would seem to the law no more than
any one of the hill-foxes that burrowed under
the centaury and cinquefoil of some fern-grown
bank.

True, in this land the pastoral life has
been more general and more honoured
than in any other ; the shepherd still lives
under his conical reed-thatched hut, the
cattle-keeper still camps out amidst his
bullocks and his horses on the thyme-sweet
plains ; their lives are much the
same as that of the peasants of old who
looked for the Pleiades as the bringers of
spring, and saw, in the great Constellation of
the North, oxen drawing the corn-pains of
the gods across the sky. True, Maremma
was so lonely, so wide, so virgin in its water-fed
greenery, so severed by its season of
disease from all the moving world, that such
a life here was less strange than it would have
been elsewhere, and the native mountaineer
in the hillside woods, and the shepherd
from the north on the rich garlands,
were nomads as utterly as ever were their
forefathers in days when Pan and Faunus
were the gods of the forest and pasture.

They would have understood well enough
that the tombs made a good dwelling-place,

and that any one with eye and ear trained to
the sights and the sounds of the moors and
the woods could, without much hardship, find
enough from them to hold body and soul
together. On the lonely mountain-sides of
Italy many still live as simply as S. Francesco
did upon Algeria ; their only bread what
the wild oats give, their only esculent the
fuui>'i that 2^row about the roots of the holm-oaks,
their only wine the spring that bubbles
up amongst the water-cress.

But to Maurice Sanctis, fresh from the
world of civilisation and culture, with its
infinite multiplication of needs and desires,
it appeared terrible for a woman who was
scarcely more than a child to dwell thus, to
be alone in the winter nights, to face the
]privations of the winter weather, to be dependent
on her own strength of limb and
surety of eye for all her maintenance, to
have neither dream nor desire of any other
life than this, which was no higher than the
deer's in the moorlands, the flamingo's in the
willowy swamps.

With daybreak on the fifteenth morning
of his fruitless stay at sorrowful Telamone
he went to speak to her, if he could, for the
last time. He had the <]^ood fortune to find

her as she was returning to the tombs with a
load of freshly-cut chair-maker's rush put on
the back of the mule. Her hands where
quick and clever at the plaiting of the reeds,
and wove rude matting and baskets with care
and skill. She did not know how she should
be able to sell them now that she had no
more the assistance of Zirlo ; but she continued
to make them, and meant, when she
had made enough to fill a boat, to sail with
them to some place on the coast where she
was not known and barter them herself for
shoes, and flax, and other necessary things.
Of clothing and linen she had still a good
store, for Joconda had laid by much of
the cloth she wove, and the stout hand-woven
stuff was tough and lasted long
even in the wear and tear of Musa's open-air
life.

She saw Sanctis approach with a frown
on her straight brows and no greeting on her
lips. He wearied her ; he importuned her ;
he rendered her angry and impatient.

Her life was good in her own sight ; she
could not see why he should want to interfere
with it.

On this last day he argued with her
almost passionately for a man so calm of

temper. He offered her that alpine farm
facing the Grand Paradis where the girlhood
of Joconda had been spent. He told her, if
any thought of cities and of cultured life
appalled her, she should have nothing of
either; she should dwell there, under the
glaciers, as free as any chamois, and since
she had so proud and resolute a spirit she
should owe him nothing, but maintain herself
by her spinning or by any other work she
chose. Only, if she would but come thither
she would be safe ; she would be no longer
alone, she would be with good women, and
the last wishes of Joconda would be fulfilled.


But Musa only laughed, deep down in
her starry blue-black eyes.

'A Sicihan asked me the other day to
go to his island,' she answered him ; ' and he
was a sailor, and he had a fast-sailing hv\^ ;
and if there be a thing that I would care to
have it is a vessel of any sort. But I said to
him what I will say to you — I will not go
from Maremma.'

'And how did he ask you to go with
him ? '

Oh, he said he woidd marry me,' said
Musa, indifferently. ' He owned the ship,

and she was a fast and a good one ; but I
would not oro.'

A sailor is seldom to be trusted in such
invitations,' said Sanctis, with some irritation.
' He makes them in most ports. What
I offer you, my poor child, is very different ;
you should go to good women, to peace and
safety and comfort, to knowledge and light
and the grace of life. You are as beautiful
as a young goddess, but you are as wild and
untamed as a kestrel. What I want to dois
what Joconda would have wished to have
done for you. My dear, is it possible you
mistrust me ? '

I neither trust nor mistrust you,' said
Musa, a little angrily. 'I do not think
about it, because I do not want anything
that you offer me. I shall not leave Maremma.'


Sanctis was silent and baffled. He had
no means by which to control or coerce,
and it began to seem impossible to persuade
her.

The northern mind was in him, all
artist though he was ; order, security, education,
protection, seemed to him the very
breath of life to any female creature ; the
liberty, the loneliness, the indifference to

the future, the ways of having like any bird
or beast of the moors, which were so good
in Musa's eyes, were intolerable to him.
He sympathised with her passion for her
strange dwelling-place as little as the
Hollander can sympathise with the Bedouin.

He was a great painter, but his creations
were cold, clear, classic, faultless, full of
intellect ; and even in the colour and movement
of Parisian life the influences of the
stiff, serene, precise routine of the Swiss
home of his boyhood had never entirely left
him.

Musa, with her lovely face and her noble
regard, had fascinated him, and a pity, so
intense as to be pain, had moved him for
the child of Saturnino, whose birth-history
he knew, though she did not know it. But
his pity was rejected, and a certain anger
began to grow up in him.

Why should I trouble about lier ? ' he
thought ; ' she has wild blood in her ;
doubtless a wild life suits her ; and doubtless,
too, to take her to that tranquil home
on the Lake of Geneva would be to loose a
tornado in a greenhouse ; yet it is horrible
that she should be left here to my to
ruin, body and soul, as she must do.'

So he urged her again and again. It
seemed his duty, and it was also his desire ;
he was a man of noble temperament, he had
no sinister thought ; he meant to do for her
what Joconda would have wished done ;
more, if possible. She seemed so young
and so intelligent that he thought there
would be little difficulty to make of her a
grand and thoughtful woman, although he
knew that it is hard to tame the nightingale
that has had a single year in the woods ; so
hard that it dies under the effort.

With all the eloquence that sincere
longing to succeed could inspire in him, he
used every argument he could think of to
shake her resolution, and induce her to trust
herself to another land and to another life.
But it was utterly in vain.

Musa heard him more or less patiently,
but his persuasions passed over her head
as if they were thistle-down flying on a
breeze.

Go and see if you can drive a grey-lag
goose ^ into your poultry byre,' she said once,
with a little low laugh ; ' do you think you
can ? You know nothing of wild birds'

^ The answer cinereous-which migrates here in winter j
not of course the chess hypei'horeus.

ways ? More pity. Well, I will tell you.
The wild goose will very likely walk and
fly with your tame ones when they are out
on the open, grass lands; perhaps he will
even go with them part of their road home ;
but never will you get him to enter with
them. Never. When he sees a house-wall
he gets up upon his wings and goes away
upon the air.'

He saw that he had no effect upon her,
took no more hold on her than the water
takes upon the glossy laurel leaf, or the
plumes of the coot.

Let her stay ! ' he thought, angrily ;
'she will go away with the Sicilian sailor,
no doubt, sooner or later; she will be
happier so than amidst culture and repose.'

His heart revolted from leavings her
here all alone in the twilight of the sepulchres,
and upon the wildness and vastness
of the moors. But he saw that if he pressed
her more she would very likely say nothing,
but go and hide ; that if he remained in
the Maremma to return and urge her afresh
she would very likely on the morrow be
flown, as the hunted snipe flies to new
willows and to strange waters, thinking its
familiar pool deceived it.

He felt that if she did not distrust lira
she had no friendliness for him.

She had brought him the clear spring
water in the graceful rhyton, and tendered
it to him with a pile of wood strawberries
and a loaf of her own oaten bread, because
she had nothing else to give ; but he felt
that the hospitality was always for the sake
of dead Joconda, and her tolerance of his
presence due to the same cause.

Since you cared for Joconda, you
should have some kindliness for me,' he
said With a sicfh.

You do not recall her to me, though I
believe what you says' she answered him.
She was so poor, so sad of heart.'

I am neither, thank heaven,' said Sanctus.
' But it is no merit of mine ; my father
amassed wealth as I have told you, and I
am able to walk in the sunshine and give
my years to art.'

That is no fault,' said Musa. ' But yet
one does not care for it.'

I never knew any one who was well
off,' she added after awhile. 'It does not
seem right ; why should you not work as
every one does in Maremma ? '

I work in my own way.'

'To do what you like — that is not
work.'

You are very stern and harsh,' he said
with a smile, as he looked at her Antinous-
like face, which it seemed to him the lotus-flowers
of love and dreamful ease should
crown. ' We must not quarrel, for Joconda's
sake.'

'No.'

Is there nothing I can do for you ? '

'There is one thing, but you will not
like me to say it, perhaps.'

'Yes, say it. Whatever it may be I
will do it.'

I should be grid if you would go
away ; that is what would please me.'

He was silent and chagrined.

In this brief time have I made myself
so offensive ? ' he exclaimed bitterly.

Oh, no,' said Musa, a little eagerly, for
she did not wish to pain him. ' I have no
dislike to you ; you are one of her people ;
that is enough for me. But I shall be glad
if you will go. In the first place it teases
me to talk to you. Your Italian is not what
we use in Maremma ; it may be better, I
dare say, but it is not ours ; and then, if
you go on living anywhere near and come

to see me here, somebody on the moors will
be certain to observe it, and then they will
find out these tombs, and, as I have said to
you, the shepherds will come.'

It was so long a speech for her that she
drew a deep breath of fatigue after making
it. She did not wish to be harsh to Joconda's
relative, but she intensely desired
him to be crone from Maremma.

Sanctis was mortified and discomfited.
She had taken a strong hold on his imagination
; also on his pity. She was like
nothing he had ever seen, and he could
get no hold in return upon her mind. It
was closed to him. He was sure that she
would never give him a remembrance if he
did as she wished, and left Maremma.

But to leave you thus now, once I have
known you,' he said, almost timidly ; ' that
hurts me and troubles me. You are content
in it, but indeed it is not a life for a
woman.'

Musa laughed a little, low in her
throat.

It is a life for me, just as it is a life for
the moor-hen and the stream-swallow.'

But it is dangerous *

'Not for me. I can hide as the mole

does, and I can fight as the mole can ; I am
never without my knife.'

The fierce fire of Saturnino's eyes glowed
for a moment in hers ; her nostrils dilated,
her hips smiled, her breath came quickly,
there was blood in her veins that was warm
as wine at the vision of conflict.

'Oh, I do not doubt your courage,' said
Sanctis ; and paused, hesitating how he could
awaken this savage innocence to a sense of
its own true peril. He felt a momentary
shudder go over him at the glance that her
eyes gave ; he seemed to see the panther in
her, as the Greek sailors saw it in the young
god Dionysus, when he leapt and rent the
garland from the mast.

If I could but persuade you,' he said,
with the timidity she was quick to hear in his
voice.

But you cannot,' she said, rudely. ' Do
not make me angry ; I do not wish to part
with you in anger, for Joconda's sake. But
you would never persuade me if you stayed
a thousand years ; you would only drive me
away up into the hills ; for if I were not
alone here, this place would be nothing tome.
If it be true that you wish to please
me — go

His face flushed ; a deep discomfiture
and mortification filled him as he heard. He
tore a leaf out of his note-book, wrote on it
and laid it down beside her.

That is where I live,' he said to her ;
if ever you want me, send there ; I will be
here as soon as steam can bring me.'

Why should I want you ? ' said Musa,
with unconscious cruelty of wonder. 'I
thank you for your thought of me ; but I
need nothing.'

You may, some day.'

She shook her head.

What I cannot get myself, I go without.
The sun will be soon setting. You will lose
your way on the moors, if you do not set out
at once.'

You are hard of heart, Musa.'

I am the Musoncella,' she said with a
little smile.

'Will you not say a kinder word at parting
? I came out of goodwill.'

Of that I am sure. God speed you.'

Then she turned away from him, and
began to walk back towards the tombs.

He looked after her while the clematis
vital, that made a thick screen all around
the place as it clung to the shrubs and trees,

enclosed her in its starry veil, and shut her
from his view.

The virgin's bower,' he thought, as the
peasant's name for the parasite of the woods
came on his mind. ' May she be safe in it ! '

But his fears were with her though his
anger would fain have extinguished them.

She is only a savage wild creature as the
gondola of her moorland is,' he said to himself,
as he walked through the blossoming
ling which the slanting sun-rays made into
a path of gold.' But he could not persuade
himself that she was only this ; he could not
banish from his sight the face that was fit for
the young Cleopatra's ; he could not forgive
himself for having missed the way to fulfil
Joconda's wishes. Yet his conscience was
blameless.

The fault was not his.

She was a pomegranate-flower blooming
in the wilderness ; a paradise-bird captive
in a cellar. He felt a fool, and guilty,
because he had been unable to gather the
flower, and too weak to persuade the bird
that liberty and light were without.

After him Musa did not look back.

She descended into her shadowy home
and called the old dog to her.

VOL. II. p

Oh, Leone, how good it is to be alone ! '
she said with a smile on her mouth ; then
the smile faded and the darkness of wrath
and of scorn came upon her face.

The little asp that bit me by betrayal ! '
she said bitterly between her teeth.

For never would she feel quite safe
again. She was always on the watch for
some strange face, some strange step ; and
the loss of little Zirlo and the sense of his
treachery weighed on her. It was her first
experience of the human curse.

The little, chattering, good-humoured,
selfish boy had been welcome to her at all
times. They had blent their young voices
together in many a lay of sea and shore ;
they had been mirthful about nothing, as it
is the privilege of childhood to be. Zirlo,
trotting to and fro between the mountains
and the moors, had been the one note of
gaiety, the one touch of affection, which
had allied her with that common humanity
which she often hated, oftener despised, and
always pitied.

Fortnight, or a little more,
after that curt farewell to Maurice
Sanctis, when she was out cutting
osiers far away from the
tombs, the mule was stolen. When she came
home, to fetch him to carry the osiers for
her, he was missing from the stable she had
made for him in the tombs with a cosy litter
of moss and ling, and a plentiful ration of wild
oats and grass. He was missing; and she
knew in a moment that he had been stolen.
He could not have slipped his halter and
opened the stone doors himself.

It is Zirlo ! ' she said between her tight-shut
lips. It could be no other than Zirlo.

She went out and saw the wet sand
marked with the fresh impress of two little

¥ 2

naked feet and the four hoofs of the mule.
She tracked them till nightfall over the
moors and through the shrubs, but night
soon fell over the land and then she could
see nothing. She returned, and could not
sleep, thinking of the poor old animal gone
to unknown misery in hard toil and strange
hands.

She remained wide awake, listening to
the delicious song of the nightingales that
came from every knot of thyme and clump
of rosemary, crossed discordantly now and
again by the croak of the snipe, the mourning
of the owl, the scream of the coot seized
by the fox.

At dawn she looked for the tracks again,
but they were effaced by the dew.

With full daybreak she went across the
country to San Lionardo, where it stood
naked and white upon its low spur of the
Apennines. She had never been there, but
she ran all risks rather than not see Zirlo
and find the mule. It was three hours'
walk, and most of it was combing work ;
but she reached there as the sun, that had
long been up over the Umbrian pastures and
Adrian shores of the east, first reached the
dreary little hamlet hidden in the rocks.

She asked for the house of Zefferiiio the
2)astorino^ and went straight to it. It was
a foul-schelling place, reeking of garlic
and stable filth ; she saw the father of
Zefferino, who Alas eating an onion and
throwing young boughs into a manger for
cows.

Zirlo has stolen my mule,' she said
abruptly. ' I am come to you to have it
back.'

You are a bold one, whoever you are,'
said the man. ' Why do you think he has
robbed you ? '

Because the mule is gone, and he alone
knew where I kept it ; and because he is
a false and wicked creature, and did me a
treachery but a few days ago ; and I spared
him then, and I was foolish '

Oh ho ! ' said the man, ' my little lad has
told me about you ; you are a gipsy, and a
witch, and worse, and you live in the bowels
of the earth, and some fine night we will
come and smoke you out. As for your
spavined beast, I know nought of it, and
ZefTerino is gone away to Bolsena to his
mother's folk who are fishers there, for he
was afraid for this life to remain where you
could get at him ^'

Then he has taken the mule to Bolsena ! '

JSTo, no ; your mule be burnt ! My little
lad went away With a good sense '

To whom he has sold it ! ' she cried,
beside herself with powerless rage.

The man's face turned red, but he only
swore at her.

If you say more about that, I will say
something to you,' he said savagely. ' Who
stole the gold out of the tombs ? The tombs
were ours as much as yours.'

I stole nothing,' said Musa ; ' but your
little liar has robbed me of my mule, and
you know it very well, and you have the
females silver in your house now, and you
are all of you wicked and accursed ; and
sooner would I that you had cut off my
rioiit arm rather than that you had taken
that poor beast to misery in its old age.'

She felt a sob choke her as she spoke,
thinking of the patient beast that she had
known and cared for all her life, and of the
baseness and the vileness with which the
child she had trusted had rewarded her
trust.

She knew her own impotence. She
could prove nothing, and she was full sure
that Zh'lo and the dealer were far away — no

doubt in some direction the most opposite to
the great lake, since this wretch had named
Bolsena. She was too proud and too strong
to protest when she was powerless to avenge.
She turned away and went down the steep
street of San Lionardo, roughly paved with
rough granite of the mountain.

We will come and smoke you out some
night, as we do the foxes,' yelled the father
of Zefferino after her, and muttered to his
cow and his pipe, ' They say there were bags
full of the Austrians' gold florins in those
caves. Zirlo was sure there were none left,
else a knife across her throat '

Happily for her and for himself, he was
a very lazy man, and munched on at his big
onion without going after her to try the persuasion
of his knife.

Musa scarcely saw the mountain side as
she descended it for the mist of passionate
sorrow that blinded her eyes. The menace
to herself passed her ear unheeded ; what she
grieved for, what she saw in her thoughts,
was the poor old mule plodding far away
over cruel, stony roads, with no one to give
him a draught of water, or pull for him a
handful of grass, taken in his old age to the
torture-loads of the Carrara marbles, or to the

hard labour of the hindoo or water-crank,
or to those brutal taskmasters, the charcoal
burners, who compel their beasts to sleep
standing, and kick them up if they dare to
lie down, and drive them night and day with
the black loads from the forests in long
pitiless journeys over stone and sand to the
gates of cities.

Poor old Cecco ! Never more would he
have his fragrant couch of heather, and
browse off the sweet shoots of the honeysuckle,
and stand at will, knee-deep in the
pools, amongst the green water-plantain.
Never more would she rest her cheek against
his shaggy neck, and say in his long, soft,
furry ear : ' You and I, — we do not forget
Joconda ? '

Those who live in the great world, or the
world of haste and toil, may think it a very
little thing to lose an old mule to an unknown
and almost certainly cruel fate. But to this
child, in her loneliness, it was a loss more
sad than words can easily tell. He Alas the
only thing left to her of her old life, and he
was gone away into misery.

She searched far and wide over the land
for many days, and dropped her usual
caution to ask questions of the few men she

met ; but Zefferiiio had been too cunning for
her. He and the mule were far away ; the
animal, in a dealer's hands, being sold at
Massa, and the little traitor safe with his
mother's brother, who lived not on Bolsena
water, but at the foundries at Follonica,

So Zirlo dropped out of her life, and the
solitude which she had told Sanctis was so
dear to her closed in upon her yet more
completely.

She was not alarmed by the threats of
ZefTerhio's father, for she knew there was now
nothing in the place to which his kind would
attach value ; but she was afraid lest others
hearing of the tombs would drive her out of
them, and often in the night she awoke and
listened, hearing the call of the bittern, or
the cry of the hare seized by a booted-eagle.
She was not afraid, but she was troubled.

Another and a yet greater sorrow also fell
upon her at that time. Leone was killed.

To the woods one afternoon two of the
smiths of Follonica came with their guns to
shoot what they might of the furred and
feathered owners of the soil. It was against
the law at this season, but there was no one
to enforce the law ; it would need legions of
mounted guards to scour Maremma and

secure obedience. No one sees, no one
cares ; the shot beasts and the trapped birds
are carried through the very gates ol' the
towns, and the law is a dead letter.

She had been at one work or another all
the morning and was tired. In a mossy dell
some mile or two distant from the
sepulchres — a green shady place, pranks
with the blue and the rose-coloured
lychnis, and the wild convolvulus, and the
clematis both white and purple — she sat
down to rest a little while amongst the
mosses, and the warmth and the drowsy
air overcame her, and her eyelids dropped,
and [her limbs stretched themselves out at
ease, and she fell fast asleep.

There were many a danger there of ass
that might creep from under the boulders of
tufa, and of vipers that might steal from
under the great leaves of the pan di serpe ;
even the booted-eagle, who passes his summers
in the Apennines, might sail across the
sky and espy her and do battle with her, as
she had once seen him do it with a grand-duke
owl till both of them fell dead together.
But of these risks she seldom thought, and
Leone lay at her feet and watched her quiet
breathing.

As she so slept, there came near the
two smiths from Follonica, and they caught
sight of her, and, being warm with wine they
had carried with them, burst throufrli the
network of greenery and were about to put
rou^li hands on her in her unconscious
sinner, when the dog, who had seen them
approach, and watched without a sound, but
with his hips curled back from his teeth and
the hair of his shoulders bristling, sprang
upon them with a leap of such sudden force
that he sent one of them stairi?erino[ 

o

wards till he fell, and pinned the other at
the throat.

The one whom he held with this powerful
teeth he shook like a rat to and fro, the
man could do nothing ; but the other who
had fallen, and whose fowling-piece had
been unloaded, tottered to his feet, rammed
a charge down the muzzle of the gun, and
fired.

At the sound of the shot, Musa awaking,
sprang to her feet ; but it Alas too late
to save her friend : eliot tli rough the head,
Leone dropped like a stone and fell dead.

Ere her startled eyes were fully awake,
her knife was out of her girdle, and the
cowards fled for their lives as they saw its

blade flash in the air. She flew on in their
wake, but they dived and dipped beneath the
thick oak scrub ; she lost them as the gazehound
loses its quay. She threw herself
beside the body of the dog, and the green
earth and the blue sky seemed to her to
grow red as if soaked in his blood.

He had been her playfellow and her
protector for so many years. At night
she had slept safely, knowing him near ;
from infancy, when her baby's hand had
closed on his white curls, he had been
her comrade, her companion, her keeper,
and of later years, in her sorrows and
her solitude, he had given her all the
tender and comprehensive sympathy which
the dog so willingly gives, so rarely
receives in return.

And now his life was gone out in her
defence ; never again would his frank
brown eyes seek sunshine in her smile.

He lay stone-dead in a pool of his own
blood that crimsoned the white bells of the
bindweed ; and his murderers had escaped
and were lost for ever in the wide waste of
Maremma. She could not weep, she could
not cry out ; she took his poor shattered
head in her hands and kissed it. If she

could have avenged him with her own life
she would have given it.

She cursed her foolish hour of sleep.

She sat there beside him till the day
waned and the deep blue shadows of evening
began to lengthen over the wold.

Then she raised his body in her arms
and put him over her shoulders as she
would have carried a child, and began
slowly, and with effort, thus burdened, to
make her sad way homeward.

The weight was great ; the mile of
moorland seemed like ten. She went with
bent back and limbs that trembled as if all
in a moment she had grown very old ; but
she did not relinquish her task. He had
done more for her. She would not leave
him in the woods for the fox and the polecat
and the carrion birds to find.

It was long past nightfall when she
reached her refuge ; her clothes were soaked
through with blood, this weight had chilled,
stiffened, numbed her ; but she had brought
him home.

The next day she made his grave under
the alterius and the myrtle ; and now on
earth was utterly alone.

x5a^5::^C^A ■

HE summer passed on. Sanctis did
not return, and she gave him no
thought. The Avild flowers ceased
to bloom ; the torrid heats descended
on the earth ; tinder the passing rainstorms
the hot soil seethed and smoked ; the
Serpent-bearer gleamed nightly in the southeast,
and from Perseus shooting-stars fell
across the heavens.

The height of summer here is the weird,
the oppressive, the ghastly season of the year ;
rarely even has the sunset beauty, the red
rayless ball too often lends but a red, dull
hectic to the sun and sky. The chanting
tree-frogs are happy, and all the snakes and
the heat-loving lizards ; nothing else is.

The panting fox hangs this tongue out

even as he lies in his cool damp earth ; the
porcupine sleeps supine ; the birds doze,
songless; the hare is hot even in her leafy
form lined with the milkwort ; there is nota
breath even amongst the sedges, that rustle
so readily at the least air ; the very water is
sickly and lukewarm, even under the moon,
when the snipes are bathing and questing.

When the rains come, as they do often
here, they scarcely bring any coolness ; they
only serve to distil the dangerous miasma
from the ground.

For the first time in her life the season
affected Musa ; she was not ill in any way,
but she felt tired and oppressed. Treachery
is like the fever of these lands; its injury
may be shaken off and its poison defied, yet
where it has once entered no life is ever
quite the same again. Zirlo was only a
little, selfish, cunning, merciless child ; but
he had stabbed her to the quick.

Never once did she regret her refusal to
Maurice Sanctis. He had been so unlike all
she had ever known ; what he offered was
so unintelligible to her. His relationship to
Joconda seemed to her so like a fable, so
unreal, so intangible, that he had left no
impress on her mind.

Wlien she thought of him at all, it was
with a contemptuous impatience and wonder,
such as she had felt at Danielloo Villamagna.

But the sailor was nearer to her, more
comprehensible ; she would have liked to
own the good brig if she could have done
so without his owning her.

The Sicilian she laughed at, but in a
measure understood ; Maurice Sanctis she
understood not at all.

Meantime, in a great chateau of the
western provinces, Sanctis himself pursued
his work on vast blank wall spaces, which he
had promised to make bloom as the rose,
with frescoes of the old sweet story of Eros
and Psyche.

To every true artist there is no such true
delight as fresco ; no method which gives so
entirely the sense of the power of instantaneous
creation. Surely, also, art has never
been so great since the panel and the canvas
supplanted the wide wall-surface, so eloquent
in its barrenness to those who can see with
the eye of the mind, as Eaffaelle saw when
he went through the Stance that he was
called to decorate, dreaming of the School of
Athens.

Sanctis would not have been unworthy

to unloose the sandals of the Angel of
Urbino.

He worshipped Art and followed it
with humble and perfect reverence.

If there were too great an austerity, too
chill a calm, in his creations, as in Flan-trin's,
and Laurels', and Overbear's, they
were absolutely pure, entirely noble.

Under his touch now his Eros became
too entirely the incarnation of spiritual love,
his Psyche too entirely the embodiment of
the soul ; but the myth lost none of its
grace and gained a holiness not its own
under his treatment.

But, for the first time, his heart was not
in the work of his hand. He had not his
usual interest in his creations. He had his
usual fine thought, delicate touch, subtle
meaning in what grew beneath the sweep of
his brush, but for ever between him and
the fiasco came the remembrance of the
Musoncella and of Maremma.

As he drew the gold curls and fair face
,of his Psyche, he saw always the dark and
brilliant face of that daughter of the
Etruscan Mastarna. As he painted the
Greek portico, the cool atrmm, the dark
green of orange and myrtle touching white

Vois. II. G

marble, lie only saw the reel glow of the
tufa soil, the amethyst and sapphire of the
mountains, the dusk of the silent tombs, the
lustre of the eyes of the offspring of
Saturn vino.

He knew her origin ; his knowledge let
him trace the possible current of oriental
blood that had most likely been unmingled
with any foreign stream in all the generations
who had borne the name of Mastarna
and dwelt upon the site of the ancient
Saturnia. Her passionate instinct of attachment
to the Tyrrhene nation might come
from transmitted influences that for three
thousand years and more, under the shadow
of the Apennines, had been strong in a race
that had changed neither its dwelling-place
nor its instincts.

It was a fantastic idea, but it took hold
of the mind of the artist, which was more
dreamy and enthusiastic than he knew. He
fancied that he saw the voluptuous Lydian
of the days of Asian supremacy look from
under those level brows and full eyelids of
Saturnino Mastarna's child.

The memory of her pursued him and unnerved
him ; he was angered against her.
His reason told him that it was best for his

peace to see no more of a life which, brought
into his own, in any way, would be as the
wind and the lightning flash of the tempest
are in serene pale April skies ; yet, think ashe
would, he could not shake off a sense of
cowardice and wrong-doing in leaving undone
the task that Joconda had asked her
brothers to do. He could not, whether in the
historic silence of the old Armorica castle,
or in the mirthful and crowded streets of
Paris, forget for any length of time that
solitary figure as he saw it stand amidst the
amber of the corolla and the broom.

She was so strong, so fearless, so fierce,
so lonely, dwelling there amidst the graves
of her perished nation ; she was beautiful asa
hawk is, poised on a bough of oak and
looking with bold and brilliant eye down the
shaft of the golden sunbeam. She had that
grace, that strength, that untamed dignity
and daring, Which the free things of forest
and crag alone possess. The memory of her
haunted Sanctis, whose life, all artist though
he was, had been chill, orderly, calm, cultured,
with little passion in it, and on it the
yoke of an early training whose precision
could never be wholly abandoned, for strong
are the bonds of birth and habit.

&2

He was a man of genius, and by custom
a Parisian ; but there was much in him of
the calm and simple mountaineer, of the
patient and prudent alpine peasant. His
work, his mind, his modes of life, were
those of a famous painter who was also a
rich man, and could build for himself a
house that was a temple of art ; but his
nature remained that which had been
Anton's and Joachim's before him. He
loved order, method, cleanliness in morals,
serenity in the manner of his days ; his paintings
erred in almost too great an abundance
of timidity, of mathematical exactitude, of
faultless perspective ; they were so perfect
that they seemed a reproach to a hurrying
and careless world that loves trio and
celerity. Never in all his life had a thought
that was unwelcome and poisonous been
harboured by him for more than a moment ;
his clear and calm mind had been always
able to repel it. But the desire to return to
that strange, unhealthy, luxuriant, mournful
land where Musa dwelt grew upon him, and
although he resisted he could not banish it.
And he smarted with a sense of cowardice,
remembering that he had allowed her tq
drive him from it.

Doubtless the Sicilian lover is with
her he said again and again to himself ashe
worked on at the great frescoes.

And yet he could not fancy her with
any lover ; he could not think of those
superb lips as tremulous with any tenderness
or warmed with any kiss. It seemed
to him that she could never live in any
other way than so, alone with her Etruscan
dead.

To living humanity she was the Masons


He worked at the frescoes summer and
autumn, and was never content with them ;
and went back to Paris, where his house was
the envy of his fellows. There he shut himself
in during those chilly autumn days
when the leaves Avere flying in scarlet
squadrons down the asphalte without, and
he painted that which haunted him.

He portrayed her just as he had seen
her in the hot transparent morning, with
the gold of the corolla and the broom
behind her, and the turquoise blue of the
sky beyond. He gave the picture that
strength, that liberty, that untamable spirit,
that freshness of open-air life, and that
repose of solitude which were in her. His

IN Mamma.

friends came and saw it in progress and
called it Maia, Erinna, Heliodora, and many
another classic name ; and said that it would
be the grandest and most luminous thing
that he had ever created. But one day he
was struck with a sudden unreasoning sense
of utter hatred to it ; he drew a great brush-full
of bistre over the damask rose of the
mouth, the oriental sombreness and mystery
of the eyes, and set it with its face to the
grey wall, and locked his studio and went
away.

'EANWHILE, ill Maremma, as the
August heats lay heavy ou the
land, fate was at work for Musa ;
the fate which comes to all, and
sometimes, like the prophet of old, blesses
and curses in the same breath.

One day she went out on the sea ; the
sea was as hot as the land was, but still she
was glad to bathe in it, to swim against it,
to pull her boat through it, to watch its
lovely colours, here the hue of a pigeon's
breast, there deeply, darkly blue as the
indigo-berries of the laurentius when they
purpled the moors in autumn. There was a
slight southerly wind, and it filled the little
lateen sail that she had contrived, by much
hard work with axe and mallet, to fix up in

her treasure-trove of a boat. She had made
the mast from a young pine, and had woven
and stitched the canvas herself. In the
pleasure of her sail, she went far and stayed
late ; it was evening when she went down
the steps of the tombs.

As she descended, she saw iu the twilight
of her home a lonely figure sitting crouched
before the embers of the fire. Her heart
beat wildly, not with fear but rage. Who
had dared to violate her sanctuary ? And
with her wrath there mingled apprehension ;
if shepherd or forester found out this safe
shelter, would they ever leave to her sole
ownership of it ?

She looked through the boughs down
into the gloom. She could not see the face
of the stranger ; his head was bowed on his
hands and his whole frame crouched up like
that of a stray and shivering dog.

She took the long knife she always wore
in her girdle and went down the steps ; at
the slight sound she made the intruder
looked up as she had seen startled animals
look, sprang to his feet, and, before she
could stop him, had prostrated himself at
hers.

I claim your shelter,' lie said, and he

kissed her rough woollen skirts. ' I am an
innocent man, hunted and miserable. Save
me!'

Musa stood over him with lier grave
luminous face full of sudden compassion.
Her hand still held the long knife, but she
showed neither doubt nor fear of him.

Who are you ? ' she said simply.

I was a prisoner on Gorgonaa ; I escaped
with Saturnino ; we parted company in the
storm that overtook us. I saw him again
when he was hiding a few days later ; he
had doubled like a fox. He described this
place to me and bade me make for it. I am
wounded — and tired — and — forgive me.'

A great faintness came over him as he
spoke ; his lips turned blue, his heart seemed
to cease to beat, and he sank downwards on
the earthen floor. A wound in his shoulder
had burst out bleeding afresh.

Musa threw her knife on the ground ; she
busied herself with such restoratives as she
knew, and with a firm hand bound up the
gunshot wound while he still lay insensible.
Then she forced a little wine that Joconda
had kept as a cordial between his lips, and
bathed his head and face with cold water.

After a little he regained consciousness,

but only languidly, and he did not fully
aw£ike to the remembrance of what had
passed.

You are good ; you are good ; that
cools me,' he murmured as the water fell on
hmi.

He was in a feverish sort of trance, his
skin was burning, and his breath was short
and quick.

She was absorbed in her efforts to help
him ; she did not notice that he was a man
young, and wonderfully handsome, with the
beauty of the Greek ideal ; beauty which
not exposure, or imprisonment, or shame, or
terror, or privation, or the ghastly horrors of
the galleys had had any power to destroy,
though they had wasted, darkened, and
dimmed it, as dust and ill-usage obscure the
soulless glory and fine lines of the marble
sod. Of all this she saw nothing, thought
nothing ; it was enough for her that he was
hunted and in fear, like the beasts and the
birds of the Maremma.

She tended him as she would have
taken care of a stricken deer or a maimed
hawk. Saturnino's name said nothing to her.
She thought of him only as a thief who had
robbed the dead ; but even as she had aided

and pitied him, so she did this man. There
was in her blood a fierce hatred of law and
oppression ; a keen sympathy with all that
was driven and persecuted. ' ' -^

After awhile the stranger became more
awake to where he was, and recovered, as
the wine flowed down into his chilled,
bruised, weary body, sight and speech and
sense. She had piled dead wood on the
hearth, and he was still stretched where he
had first dropped before it. The night was
cold, though the days were scorching, and
the heat of the fire was welcome to his
limbs, numbed with long fatigue and exposure
in woods and marshes where lie
had disputed acorns with the boars and the
rats.

You will not give me up.^ ' he said, with
a timid appeal in his great dark eyes.

Musa standing above him, in her strength
and her health, smiled with a little scorn.
Why do you come to me if you think
so?'^

Saturnino said you had been good to
him, and that the place was a sure refuge.'

He did not say that Saturnino had also
said to him :

'If the maiden be squeamish, or be like

to be treacherous, you can easily rid yourself
of her — a fawn's neck is soon slit.'

He was vile himself,' she said hastily,
with sternness^in her eyes. ' What think you
he did ? He stole the gold cups and platters —
theirs. I was glad when I learned he was
taken.'

Can you be so cruel ? ' said the refugee
with a little look of wonder and fear.

I do not see that I am cruel ; he was
a traitor and a thief. If I let you stay,
will the place be sacred to you ? '

You and it, that I swear.'

Stay then,' said Musa, with calm
unconcern.

It did not occur to her that he was a
man, and young ; her innocence was too
grand a thing for that.

You did not do the crime they took you
for ? ' she asked him with a long, grave
look into his face.

No ; that also I swear. I Alas guiltless
as you.'

She felt that his answer was the truth.

What was the crime ? '

I was accused of the murder of my
mistress.'

Ah ! ' — lie drew a deep breath ; it did

not seem to her anything very strange ; the
knife was a common cure of faithlessness in
Maremraa.

She was false ? ' she added.

'Not false to me. Nor slain by me.
God in heaven hears me ! Never.'

Very well. I believe,' she said simply.
You can tell me more when you will.
Now you are unwell — tired and feverish. I
will make you a. bed of leaves — there is
nothing else — in the further chamber, and
you had best go to it.'

Can you sleep amongst these tombs ? '
he cried, and glanced around the sepulchres
with awe.

The dead do not hurt us said
Musa, with a grave tenderness. ' They
have but gone before where soon we

The young man shuddered a little. Life
had been glorious to him, and was still
sweet and precious.

It needs a pure soul to love the
dead.

She left him, and made a bed of moss
and leaves in the innermost chamber of the
tombs ; she filled one of the black vases with
the thin wine of Joconda's store, and put it

with some bread beside the bed ; she lit a
little wick in a little oil iii one of the
Etruscan lamps, and set it in the place ; she
went to the spring that welled through the
passage beyond, and filled a big copper vessel
with it for a bath.

That is all I can do,' she thought, intent
on her preparations as Nausicaa for her hero
from the sea.

It was a pleasure to have some one to
serve and to defend.

Can you walk to the spot ? ' she said to
him. ' If not, lean on me ; I am strong.'

I think I can walk,' he said, embarrassed
somewhat because she was not so ; and
he rose and dragged himself feebly into the
third chamber.

I am so tired,' he muttered. ' I think I
should let the carabineers take me now as
easily as a stunned hare.'

'The carabineers will not come here,'
said Musa. ' Do not think of them. Sleep,
and if you want any aid give a shout, and I
shall hear.'

You are good to me,' murmured the
stranger with a little confusion, looking
at her as she stood with the light of her
own lamp shed on ber dark level brows,

her lustrous eyes, her ii])-thrown masses
of bronze-hued hair, and the form that
Alas clad in the white lambs-wool as the
fauns and nymphs of old may have been
clad in Tempe and Arcadia when throng] 1
the gladness of the woods the winds of
winter rustled.

I will say of you as the angel Gabriel
said of Madonna last,' he said with a little
smile, 'that you are the fairest thing that
ever was seen in Monde or Maremma.'

'Oh, not I,' said Musa, with a little
displeasure. 'When the rose and crimson
flamingoes come like a cloud red with the
sun's setting, they are much more beautiful
than I. Do the angels ever remember
Maremma ? I think not. Who could tell
you they did ? Good-night to you ; good
repose.'

Then she went across the other chambers,
crossing herself as she passed the coffin of
Joconda, and in time laid herself down on
her own bed as calmly as though no human
intruder had disturbed her solitude.

Only, every now and then she kept
awaking with a start, and, sitting up on her
rough couch, listened with ears as eager and
sure as the deer's to hear whether any sound

on the night's silence was like the tramp of
the soldiers of the State. She was afraid for
him ; she was not afraid of him.

True, once before she had sheltered a
galley-slave, and he had robbed her ; but
she felt no distrust now. When this man
had said, 'I am innocent,' there had been
truth in his voice ; and she had sympathy
with him as she had with the large-eyed
deer, with the rose-red phenicop terse, with the
timid hare and the brave boar, and all the
man-hunted tidings of the marsh and the moor.

The blood of an outlaw was in her.

,HE was up whilst the sun was still
unseen, and only a geranium
colour, lovely and wondrous as
that of the flamingo's wings, was
spreading over the darkness of the Maremma.
She looked into his chamber ; the lamp was
spent, but he was sleeping. She could seethe
outline of his head and shoulders resting
on the homely linen she had spread above
the leaves.

She went softly back again ; went out,
and plunged into the tarn and bathed ; then
clothed herself and set about the preparation
of such humble meal as she could make
with water and with bread and With the
sweet herbs of the moors. It had always
done very well for her, but she doubted

• VOL. II. u

whether it would suffice for him. She looked
for some eggs from her fowls, and she was
pleased that she could find three.

Then she took up the silver-framed
mirror of burnished steel that had been
buried there with some regal or noble
woman, and that now served her to give
her back a dim reflection of her own face,
and she combed and brushed her short rich
hair till it shone like dusky gold that the
fires have burnished and reddened. For the
first time in her life she looked at the great
eyes that surveyed her from the mirror, and
said to herself, ' Is it true that I am good to
look at? Joconda said so once or twice,
but then she loved me.'

She had never heard of Boccaccio, but a
drop of the old potent Florentine philtres
that Boccaccio used had touched her hips.

She was leaning on the sward outside her
home, and gazing into the steel mirror which
was lying upon the grass.

For the first time she looked with interest
on the face that the Etruscan mirror reflected,
and wondered if indeed it were
handsome.

She did not know that her head was like
that of Carlo's angel, and her body like one

of the beautiful, lissom, strong, and harmonious
figures that are still left to us in
Greek marble.

As she looked down on the reflection,
where she lay, with her chin resting on her
hands and her elbows leaning in the thick
wild thyme, a scorpion, black and hideous,
ran out of the herbs and passed across the
steel face of the mirror which was engraved
with the figures of the Tyndarids, dear to
Etruria as to Eome.

She started as the ugly dangerous insect
passed over her own image.

She rose to her feet and left the steel
flatterer lying amongst the dews on the
ground. The scorpion remained upon its
silver framework.

Do you come to tell me that to think
of my face is a sin ? ' she said to the
beast ; ' a sin as ugly and as poisonous as
you ? '

Joconda had always told her so ; but the
soul of her vigorous and brilliant youth
insensibly rebelled against these austere
negations of the flesh. Nature told her to
rejoice in herself as the Hellenic mythologists
told the beautiful boy and the virgin who
.stripped for the race.



The soul of the Greek lives oftentimes in
the Italian, though it lives benighted and
struggling in bonds and unconscious of
itself.

She left the mirror still lying on the grass
and went within. She took some food in
one of the earthen jars and went towards his
chamber.

Are you arisen ? ' she called softly.

He answered her feebly :

I cannot rise ; my limbs seem made of
stone. I fear the chills have got into my
very bones ; I am in great pain '

She went forward to his side.

Our marshes will do that sometimes,'
she said, with a soft pity in her eyes, like
that which came there when she saw a
hunted bird or beast and could not save it.
I have seen that malady ; it is as though
your whole body were frozen ; but if you
have not much fever it may pass. I have
brought some good food — eat it.'

She held the earthen holkion, and a
Wooden spoon, towards him, and he took a
little of her broth and said that it was good,
and then took more.

With the momentarily revived forces
that came to him after the food, he drew a

quick breath from aching lungs, and with
many a pause from weakness, and many an
involuntary shudder from cruel memories, he
told her how he had first come thither from
Gorgonaa.

Saturnino and I escaped together, and
one other man, who, poor wretch, was shot
as he leapt from the wall. We had planned
it long before we could find the occasion to
take that mad plunge into the sea. We
swam and swam, and at last fortune favoured
us in a wondrous way, we came on a drifting
boat, the boat, I suppose, of some
wrecked mariana, she was Mediterranean
build. In that wee rowed ; and sculled ourselves
warily all night long, and gained the
coast, and hid all day long under the rocks
off Eomito. There is a wild thicket of rosemary
there ; it served to hide us. At nightfall
we took to the sea again. The idea of
Saturnino was to get ashore somewhere near
either the Albegna's or the Flora's mouth,
and so in time creep home to his old lair by
Monte Labbro. We pulled all day long ;
we were half dead of hunger and thirst ; we
had drunk at a spring near Eomito, and for
food we had a bit of black Gorgonaa bread,
but we had finished that at dawn. We

rowed on, keeping some way off the shore,
hoping against hope that if the coastguard or
the carabineers saw us they would see in us
two fishermen and nothing more. The heat
was frightful ; the sea looked still enough,
and glassy and oily, but there was a heavy
swell underneath that made the pulling hard.
I know not how many miles we rowed that
day, but they must have been many. We
rowed on all that day and caught some fish
and ate it raw, and chewed the seaweed, and
were nearly mad. At night we stole on
land ; thirst drove us ; it was a Avild place,
and we found fresh water and some wild
fruit. At daybreak, after sleeping like
drunkards, we went to sea again and pulled
along the coast ; we saw the mounted
soldiers riding along the Romola , by the bay
of Populonia. They were looking for us,
that is certain. At three o'clock, or thereabouts
as nearly as we could tell by the sun,
an awful storm burst over us. It was quite
sudden, or seemed so ; it was rainless and
horrible. The waves rose like walls; the
wind drove us like a whip in some giant's
hand ; great clouds of foam on the sea, and
of dust on the land, obscured the shore and
the horizon. We were thrown to and fro

like a cockleshell ; the noise of the wind all
the while like rushing cataracts. The sky
was livid with lightning, the thunder pealed
like the cannon of vast armies. Our little
skiff overturned ; we could not right her, we
were thrown headlong into the hissing water.
She was flung about for a few moments, and
then dashed like a plaything far out of our
reach. We were in the deep sea, faint for
Avant of food and almost weary to insensibility.
How I gained the shore I cannot tell.
But I did. Saturnino I never saw. Later I

heard that '

I saved him ! ' said Musa, Who had
held her breath and listened with parted
lips.

Yes, I know ! '

Yes,' she proceeded unheeding, ' I
plucked him out of the sea, and I hid him
here, and he paid me by stealing the gold
of the tombs.'

He told me that. We met up in the
mountains, up under the Labbro ; he had
made me acquainted with all the haunts and
hiding-places of the hills. We had endured
unutterable misery, both of us. To me
women had been kind — they are always so to
a man in misfortune ' [in his thought he said.

rather, to one who is young and well-looking].
' We were but a few days together ; he
told me of the gold out of the tomb, and I
blamed him hotly, and we came to fierce
words ; he went down to the Orbetellano to
sell that gold, though I told him to attempt
it would be his own undoing ; and I went upto
his old favourite lair on the Eocca del
Giulio, where it is cold as winter even in the
canicular heats. You will understand, of
course, that all this time we moved with the
greatest caution, and only at night, like the
bats and the owls. Well, in the Orbetellano
he was taken as I heard, but I heard it long
afterwards, and I remained awaiting him
up at the Giulio. There were some stone
cabins there, very wretched ones, where his
band had dwelt, and there were still remnants
of their booty and of the things they
used. There was even a child's toy in ivory
of Indian workmanship ; taken, I suppose,
when they plundered a train or stopped a
travelling-carriage. It seemed strange to see
it, that frail toy, in such a solitude I Well,
there I passed the autumn and the winter ;
I lived miserably, that is of course. I picked
up the pine cones and cut the brushwood ;
and there were old friends of Mastarna's

down at a hovel that is called a hostelry in
the hamlet of Saturnia, and for his sake
and for love of outwitting the law, for they
were all smugglers, if not worse, they sent me
up coarse food once in eight da3^s and took
down the fuel. So I lived. It was hardly
better than Gorgonaa, except that there was
the sense of a relative freedom, and the sight
of the clouds that lay beneath one of a morning,
and, when they cleared at noon, showed
so glorious an expanse of wood, and moor,
and cliff, and sea, far down, so far down ! —
One saw as the eagle sees. But I was forever
on the watch, and scarce dare, even in
the bitter days and nights of winter on the
mountains, light a fire, though timber was so
plentiful and near, lest any glow of flame or
any curl of smoke should tell my hunters I
was hiding there. Then I heard from the
men of Saturnia that Saturnino had been
captured afresh and been for months in the
prisons of Orbetello. That hurt me greatly,
for though I knew he was but a brute and
stained with many crimes of blood-guiltiness,
yet there were a force and a rough generosity
in him which allured one.'

It was generous to steal the gold I *

No, it was mean ; but what would

you? He had been a robber all this life,
and lie was at that moment most desperate,
starving, homeless ; besides, it was only
robe delle tome to him.'

That is what is so vile ! The dead
could not defend it, or strike him down.'

I know, I know ! But, my dear, Avild
and lawless men who go to the galleys
come out of them devils. I myself, who
had long habits of education and social
observance behind me, 1 was little better
than any, for when I had been for six
months in that accursed place, when hunger
and thirst tortured me, I could have killed
or robbed like Saturnino. What we call
our soul is only in safety so long as our
body feeds ! He took your gold, and that
was bad, and to wrong your trust was
worse ; but he has paid for both sins
heavily. He will not get away again from
his torture. Well, when I heard he had
been shot down, but taken alive, I lost
heart and hope ; he had seemed my only
friend. The time went by most miserably,
until, one daybreak, I saw down amidst the
cork woods the glitter of the musketry of
soldiers. Whether one of the men at Saturnian
had betray ed me or not I cannot tell.

but it was certain the soldiery were out
after me. In the stillness of dawn I could
hear their heavy tread, and their weapons
breaking the branches as they passed.
They were hundreds of feet down belo^v
me. I packed a little bread up, and took a
da'jf^er I had found in those huts — 



dagger you see, a three-edged old dagger of
Florence — and then I lied for my life again,
and hid in the holes of the rocks with the
other hunted beasts of the hills. That was
in April last ; I knew the month because
the ashes were in blossom, and made the
woods below look as if a snow-storm had
fallen on them. It is of no use going overall
I suffered — suffering of starvation, of exhaustion,
of cold, of heat, of rheumatism, of
cramp, of wet, of darkness, of perpetual
terror. Ah ! do not think me a coward ! I
have been palsied with fear — I am still ! '

He gazed at lier with dilated eyes, with
straining ears, with panting breath, with
shivering flesh ; his danger was ever present.
Even now the muskets of the soldiers
might be glancing in the moonlight amongst
the Christ's thorn above the sepulchres.

Musa was alarmed at his look.

You are unwell,' she said gently. ' Do

not talk any more, and be not afraid. Here
no one will come — you are safe ! '

Safe ! ' he echoed, with so poignant a
despair that it struck her heart with cold as
if his three-edged dagger of Florence had
pierced it. ' No ; I can never more be safe
on earth, though I wander as long as
Ahasuerus. There is nothing more to tell ;
you can guess what my life has been —
hiding and creeping away through all this
green land, for ever afraid of every sound,
of every breeze, of every leaf! I came
down here without knowing I was near you,
and then by certain landmarks that I saw
I recognised the place of the tombs that
Mastarna had described to me, and I
resolved to throw myself upon your mercy,
and in your absence I crept down the steps.
I was very faint ; I have eaten nothing but
berries several days, and I have an open
wound on my shoulder. A month or more
ago the soldiers were near enough to me to
fire at me, and they hit me ; though it is
but a flesh wound it does not close, and it is
painted. I have lain out many nights on
your moors, and men used to say that it was
death to do that. I have doubled like the
fox ; the soldiers believe me gone to the

hills again ; but any hour they may find out
and come.'

He shuddered ; his eyes closed, his head
fell back upon his rude pillow of dried
grasses. So much speech had exhausted his
enfeebled spirit and frame.

I shall be very ill,' he said wearily.
You had better turn me out whilst I can
crawl away from you.'

I will care for you till the illness passes,'
she answered.

It were better to call the carabineers,' he
said bitterly. 'A sick man and a felon —
what can you do with me ? '

I will tend you till you are well,' she
said simply again. ' You are quite safe here.
No one, except a little goat-boy and two
strangers who are far away, even knows of
these tombs. It is true there is little food
for you, but there will be enough to keep you
from linger.'

But why should you do all this forme
? '

Because you have no one else to help
you.'

That is very noble of you ! '

Why that ? I have no one either.
Leone whom I loved is dead.'

Leone ? What was lie ? '

He was a dog.'

Is that all you have had to love ? '

I had a woman ; she was very old. She
died m the summer of last year.'

You loved her very much, I think, by
the sound of your voice ; there are tears
in it.'

She was very good.'

• Tell me what is your name ? '

• I am called Musa. And yours ? '
I am Luitbrand teste.'

That is a very long, fine name. It is
not of Maremma — at least I think not.'

No, it is not ; it is of the north , of the
Lombard plains, where the snow lies long
in winter-time, and the rivers rage and outspread
themselves till the laud is drowned,
and men and their cattle and their cities
are drowned too.'

You should not speak any more. You
are weak. I will go and get a brazier and
light you a fire, and I will make you some
herb-tea that will be good for your pain.
Lie and sleep if you can. It is such a
fair day without. It is a pity you cannot
see it.' *

• I should not dare to look out into the

light if I could rise. You forget that I ama
hunted beast.'

That is why I trouble myself for you,'
she answered. ' I would always save the boars
if I could. They kill nothing ; they only eat
roots and berries, and men hunt them
wickedly. Of course they fight when they
are pressed ; so did you. Now lie still and
sleep, and I will light a fire.'

She had burned some fallen wood in the
summer into charcoal, and made of that the
brace, which was the only form of fire known
in Santa Tarsilla. She filled a big vessel
with this ; a metal lees that had served in
Etruscan times to hold the wines of a funeral
feast. Once lighted, the slow warmth of
the smouldering embers soon spread itself
through the place, though it had no power to
cure the chills and shivering of the sick man.

She did for him what she had seen
Joconda do for those thus afflicted ; and the
grand sunshine and storm of the late summer
days passed over the moors and mountains,
and the libeccio blew the sea into a field
of foam, a steam of mist, and for the first time
she kept no count of the change on the face
of nature, but in the twilight of the Etruscan
tombs watched the waning of strength, the

flickering of breath, the half-unconscious
torture of a human frame.

For days together she never left the
sepulchre.

She waited on his lassitude, his heats,
his chills, his shuddering pains, all the long
hours through, doing what she could do to
alleviate his ills ; and at night, when she lit
the little bronze lamp with oil, she was alone
with a man delirious, and who seemed to heron
the point of death.

She never felt that temptation, which a
coward would have felt, to leave him to
his fate and rush away from this misery
and danger into safety where the dwelling
of men and the meeting of roofs would
give it. She prayed passionately for him.
That was all she did. She never had heard
of physicians ; there was not one at Santa
Tarsilla. If such a person were needed
he had to be sought from Orbetello, and
no one dreamt of doing that once in ten
years, though the surgeon of the Orbetellano
was considered the parish doctor of the
whole district. There was hardly any one
in the villages in summer, and the few that
were there, in winter, cured themselves with
nostrums or with simples, and, if they could

not cure, lay down meekly like suffering
animals, called the priest, and died. Therefore
of medical help or service she had no
idea ; and if she had known of it, could not
have left the sick man to seek it. And
Zirlo had been a traitor ; she could no
more call to him across the moorlands and
see his little brown face peer tliroucfh the
brushwood in answer.

She was utterly alone with this hunted
creature who seemed at once frozen and on
fire, and of whom she knew nothing. It
never occurred to her to be afraid or to
summon other help. Distrust of others was
an instinct in the child of Saturnino, and the
loneliness of her life with Joconda had made
independence of human sympathy and aid
her second nature.

If she had wished it, moreover, she knew
that she would have called for help in vain.
Of the sickly timid souls of Santa Tarsilla,
not one would have ventured lucre, and of
the rude, scattered herdsmen and husbandmen
native to Maremma she knew nothing,
and they had their toil, which was their all,
to fill their time.

So she remained alone beside the nearly
dying man.

VOL. II. I

But as fear paralyses the feeble, so it
nerves the courteous ; she was brave, and
she did not let her fear conquer her compassion.
And she was afraid of the strangers
coming as Sanctis had come, afraid of the
creed of the labourers on the moors and the
hills if it were known that there was something
here strange and worth seeing ; and if
such as these came, then after them would
come the guards. These thoughts kept her
anxious and awake all through that long
night ; she sat by the sick man's bed on the
stone chair sculptured there for the dead
Etruria to occupy, and listened to his disjointed,
wandering speech, and watched the
oil flame flicker in the lamp that had been
fashioned by hands lifeless three thousand
years before.

She knew his malady to be that deadly
scourge of the soil, called the pernicious ;
that terrible fever which seems to have joined
hands with frost and fire. Twice the fatal
fit came on him ; the ceaseless shivering and
trembling, the blue pinched cold, the bloodless
icy collapse of the whole tortured body.
The third seizure would mean death, she
knew. Eating heat, as though his flesh
Avere melting in a furnace, followed, and held

him in its power for many clays, but the
cold fit returned not, and she began to hope
that life would be stronger than the marsh-poison.


What the fugitive said in his stupor told
her nothing of him.

When he was sensible, he complained of
thirst and racking pain ; when he was delirious,
he thought that the carabineers were
on him, and he struiZG;ied with them and

CO

shouted aloud. Sometimes he murmured
passionate love words and called with yearning
endearment on the name of Aloysia.

How could they think he killed her,
since he loves her so ? ' thought Musa as she
heard.

For fifteen months he had been wandering,
pursued, hidden amidst hill-forests or
by the sea in caves, holding his life in his
hand, more wretched than a hunted stag or
fox, waking from every hour of jaded sleep
with the memory that his foes were seeking
him and might be behind each rock, each
tree, each tuft of malacca. Now that he
had dropped thus in exhaustion, his harassed
brain could not escape the horrid terrors
of his haunted past.

Once she had seen a trapped flamingo
I 1'

struggle in the gin, writhing its ilower-hkd
body and its flame-ike throat, and beating
its crimson wings in madness and terror, till
it died ; he made her think of the Egyptian
bird.

It was a fear so natural which pursued
him even into the stupor of insensibility that
it seemed, not craven, but merely human,
as is the fear of men in shipwreck.

She soothed him as well as she
knew how, with wet moss upon his
head, and water ever to his reach. To her,
used as she was to the open air and
the open sea, there could have been no
greater deprivation than to remain cooped
up under the vault of stone all through the
brilliant days of the late summer. Yet she
stayed down in the tombs for this stranger's
sake, only going out for such time as it was
absolutely necessary to take for the finding
of simples and of food, and the cutting of
wood for fuel. She missed the help of
Zefferino sorely ; and without him the little
gains she had made were lost to her, at least
were lost until she could be free to carry
what she sold herself to the hill-villages,
and this she would then be afraid to do lest
it should lead to discovery not of her refuge

alone, but of the fugitive she harboured
there.

She wanted many things for this terrible
sickness with which she alone fought ; but
she could get none of them. She could not
bring herself to leave him in his great peril
for so long a time as it would take to go to
Santa Tarsilla or Telamone ; and, even if she
had left him, her appearance in those places
to which she had been so loner lost would
have provoked comment, wonder, and
possibly pursuit, and, with pursuit, the sight
of one for whom to be seen by human eyes
would mean a lifetime spent at the galleys.
So she had to do as she could with the
narrow means within her reach ; and whilst
the fever lasted the demands of the sick man
on her were not great. The water from the
nearest spring, a drink she made from the
bilberries on the moor, a little broth of herbs
thickened with beaten egg such as she had
seen Joconda make for sick people — these
were all he wanted, and often more than she
could force through his scorched lips, drawn
back from his teeth in the convulsions of
alternate heat and cold. The terrible
nausea of his disease made even the spring
water U^ste bad and bitter to him, though in

Diis devouring thirst he drank of it ahiiost
unceasingly, as if he had been shipwrecked
on s.")me bare rock without a drop to cool
his mouth save such as rained from the
clouds upon him.

But, if he should recover, when he should
recover, she said always to herself, she knew
very well that his hunger in convalescence
would equal his long fasting now ; that he
would want meat, wine, many things that
she would never be able to procure ; and the
thought of this kept her harassed and
anxious, and blinded her eyes to the
autumnal colours on the moors and woods,
and made her heedless of the departure of
her songsters from the myrtle coverts and
the jungle of cistus and bay.

When the call of the strigince echoed
over the marshes, or the night heron's croak
thrilled hoarsely through the dark, they
startled her now. She took them for the
shout of soldiery or the boom of powder.

As she watched his fever, and scanned
the moors for him, so, as a child, she had
watched the fluctuations of life in a storm-swallow
with a broken wing that she had
taken off the waves after a boatman had
shot it. Often the bird had seemed lifeless,

with blind eyes and dulled plmiiage, and she
had been sure that it was dead. Then she
had warmed it in her bosom, and it had
recovered. She had kept it all winter, and
then the wine' had irrown whole once more.
On Easter-day it had flown off her shoulder
over the sea, a speck of silver and bronze in
the sunshine, which she had watched with
big tears in eyes that had never been so
dimmed before.

As she had watched the bird then, so she
watched now the struggle between life and
death in the body of this doomed and
hunted man.

When he was restless and could not
sleep at all through the nights that seemed
long as centuries, she took her mandoline
and sang to soothe him such sonnets as she
had sung to the shore people at Santa Tar-silly.
The mellow, tender thrilling of the
old charta chimed in softly with her voice,
which in its youth and its clearness was as
melodious as the spring and autumn song
of the woodlark, Avhicli chaunt ever, as
the old French quatrain has it, ' Adieu, dieu,
adieu ! '

Once above ground a shepherd went by
over the turf, not witting of all that lay

below; and he heard that sweet hillary
beneath his feet thrilling through the earth,
and was so terrified that he ran headlong,
his fioek behind him, and told for
many a day in his own Pistoiese mountain
home on winter nights that in Maremma the
dead people sang below the soil, in the very
heart and core of the round globe.

So, slowly, by one care and another of
hers, her sick man rallied, and cast off little
by little the weight of disease, and stretched
out his thin transparent hands for more food
than she found it easy to supply to him.

Slowly, as the September days grew
shorter and the winter solstice came nearer,
his resurrection began in the shadow of the
Etruscan gi^ave.

Towards daybreak at the close of the
fifth week of his sojourn there, his fever grew
lower ; a quieter sleep came on his heavy
eyelids, his limbs shivered less ; he got some
rest. She left him to let the fowls out into
the air. The sun was once more coming up
behind the dark edge of the moors. She
scanned them with beating heart lest she
should see any new-comer on them. Dread
woke up with every dawn for her now ; her
old simple peace was gone for ever; the

peace that she had shared with the kid that
cropped the pasture, with the arum that was
curled within its green spathe.

She was thankful beyond words because
at last some hope had come fur him.
Yet a deep sorrow took possession of her
soul as she realised the burden bound upon
her ; tears rose in her eyes and veiled the
carnation of the morning skies. She did
not reason on it, but she felt that vast
irreparable loss which no treasures of the
world, or passions, or joys can adequately
pay — the loss of youth's unconsciousness.

Never again could she go light-hearted
to the shore to wade amidst the sea things,
glad as they ; never again would she come
back over the brown moor in the hush of
evening, content because a meal of chestnuts
or a few wild figs had been her day's
sufficient gleaning.

The unconscious life — the life that is
content with itself from sunrise until sunset
from the mere sense of living, from the
sheer sweet strength and health of the body
that is fleet as the roe and tireless as the
swallow — was gone for ever ; and in its
stead were the luu'cst, the bitterness, the
pangs, the ecstasies of human affections.

CHAPTER Xxii.

[E was young and by nature strong,
and his constitution conquered the
insidious poison that had entered
his blood from the vaporous
marshes in the August heats. The unbroken
silence, the cold water, the salutary herbs, all
served to contribute to his victory over the
fever-fiend of Maremma, and little by little he
grew sensible of other things than those deadly
chills, those waves of lava heat, which turn
by turn had filled his entire consciousness so
long. Then he saw that a woman all alone
had done this great service for him, and
hidden him from his pursuers, and kept vigil
by him through many weary days and
nights.

The weeks passed. Health very slowly returned

to him. He was but five-and-twenty
years old, and the clinging to life was strong
in him. Little by little, as time wore on,
the light came back into his great brown
eyes ; the blood coursed smoothly beneath
the delicate olive of his skin ; the traces of
fatigue and privation effaced themselves ; a
sense of safety and of tranquillity came on
him. In the strange twilight of this homemade
with the dead the world seemed very
far away. Sometimes it seemed to him as
if he were himself dead, and buried there,
and dreaming in his tomb. Only she was
here too, this girl who waited on him as
serenely as a boy, who had neither basle fulness
nor boldness, who was without fear as
she was without knowledge.

How can I thank you ? What can I
say to you ? ' he muttered, as he became
awake to the large debt he owed a
stranger.

I would have done the same for a stag
or a boar that had been hunted and hurt,'
she answered him a little roughly ; for she
was unused to talk of what she felt, and she
was ashamed to be told she had done well.

He was too weak and too drowsy to
say more.

A great catastrophe had shaken all his
previous life to pieces, and plunged it into
utter darkness. It seemed to him as if he
had awakened in some other planet than
the familiar earth.

But he was too feeble to reflect long or
to ask more. She made him think of those
immortals of whom he had read in Greek
and Latin and in marbles ; they who moved
through earth compassionate, yet aloof from
love. As she stood before him in the gloom,
clothed in her tunic of white wool, and with
the birds of night about her, he thought of
Persephone, of Nausicaa, of the nymphs
looking on whom a man grew mad — of all
old-world tales of beings who were on earth,
not of it.

Yet they were humble cares she had for
him. She made his fire, she made his bread,
she made his soup ; she wove linen for him ;
she sought far and wide for roots and
berries and mushrooms such as lie could
eat. Sometimes she went down to the sea
and netted fish for him ; at night, by the
solitary lamp, she spun and sewed diligently
to replace the garments of his prison that he
wore.

She did the simplest and the humblest

tidings for hin, but lie did them as of yore
they were done in Tempe, in Ilion, in Thessaly,
in days when the Sun-god herded and
ploughed for Admetus.

And all the while never once did it
seem to cross her thoughts that she was a
girl and he was a man.

He was weary, worn, full of care and
fear ; his senses were all absorbed in the
one incessant carling anxiety lest his refuge
should be found out, and his body, with
a dead soul in it, killed by despair, dragged
back to the hell of the galleys. As his
ear was always strained for the least sound
that should tell of his pursuers, so his whole
nature and existence seemed to him bound
up in that one terror of pursuit ; the terror
of the deer as he lies in the fern-brake, of
the she wolf as she hides with her cubs.

All other human instincts were momentarily
suspended in him ; all his being
was absorbed into this one intense, overwhelming
dread of his hunters and his doom.

If I but once get free,' he thought,
never, so help me God, will I hunt
to death any poor forest thing again ! '

But how was he to get free ? This was
not freedom, this hiding amidst tombs and

darkness. It was a shelter, and as sure a
one as earth could offer lin, but it was a
prison too. Often he thought of the sea,
but the sea was guarded yet more closely
than the mountains. He had passed the
whole of one ghastly day floating on it, with
the sun beating on his face and head, and
an agony of thirst and an agony of exhaustion
making the blue water terrible as
Procrustes' bed. He dared not trust himself
to it again.

Sunstroke, the jaws of a shark, the
paralysis of cramp, death by thirst — any one
of these mi(?ht be his fate if he sought the
sea. He would not dare to land anywhere ;
lie would have to swim on and on and on ;
escape that way was hopeless.

These two passions — the passion of
dread, and the passion of desire to escape — -
were too strong in him to let any other
emotion move him. He dwelt on in this
Etruscan solitude with this beautiful handmaiden
beside him, and he only thought
of her with vague doubt.

Is it true that she will not betray me ? '
he wondered. ' If they give her gold, will
she not lead them hither ? '

As he recovered ho grew more and more

suspicious of her. Yet, had he known it, she
watched for him as the stork watches sleepless
on tower or tree-toy) by its wounded mate.

What she feared most was Zirlo. He
had sold her secret, and he would, if he
could, sell this fugitive ; of that she was
shut. Every hour her eyes searched the
thickets and the hollows for the form of the
faithless little goat-herd ; but she never saw
him. He had been too terrified to venture
near the tombs.

From Zirlo she was safe. But it was
now autumn ; shepherds, hunters, travellers
came at times across the moors. Any
moment the white cone of the wood smoke
might be seen by some passer-by ; any
moment some one might ask her what she
did there under the thick malacca scrub.

She was for ever alarmed and on tie
watch, like the wild partridges that sleep ifi
their circle, back to back, ready for instantaneous
flight at any second.

The very shadows cast across the plains
by moving clouds made her heart throb
more quickly. Wlien the long dark line
of a string of animals, or waggons, crawled
across the horizon, small m the distance asa
line of ants, she hold her breath in terror

lest it should draw near. The long horns of
her old familiar friends the buffaloes seemed
to her fancy like the weapons of the carabineers,
and when a shot cracked in a far-off
swamp full of water-fowl, her pity and her
fear were no longer only for the winged
dwellers of Maremma.

It was near the season of the year which
she had dreaded for herself. She dreaded
it a thousand times more keenly now.

Why was it not the windless, vaporous,
silent summer, when all the land was empty,
and the great heat lay on it like a pall,
covering all the motionless mute figures of
the drowsy, sweating cattle and colts
dropped down beside some reedy drinking-place
— the only multitudes that peopled the
great plains of that Etruria which now was
dumb as they.

If it were but the summer ! ' she
thought. If it were but the summer there
would be no cause to fear, no need to scan
the sky-hne and gaze apprehensive through
the leaves.

But it was once more the month of
October, and the time had again come when
the Maremma awoke to motion and noise
of men. Already the snow upon the Apennines'

crests looked like battlements of ivory
round about the citadel of God ; already
axes were rinmngr, and tree trunks were
falling, on the wooded hillsides, shots were
cracking over the still lagoons, and birds
began to fly with shrill screams from bush
and brake. In the distant plains the plough
oxen were moving, white and slow, in
long and level lines over the rich, moist
red earth ; amidst the herds of buffalo the
rude utter was riding to capture the young
bull calves of the year. Countless flocks of
sheep and goats came down from the hav
mountains, and chestnut forests of the north,
and wended their way across the grass-lands,
the shepherd, and his women and
children and docs, dragrcrincT their tired limbs
in their wake through the pale lilac of the
blossoming meadow-mint. On the sea-shore
the torpid villages were stirring under the
autumnal winds as moles bestir themselves
fi'om slumber at the sounds of spring-time ;
tartars were loading in the weedy, slimy
ports, little lateen craft were home-coming
or fitting out, and striped sails were shaking
merrily in the rough breeze.

The days passed, and the weeks grew
into months, and lie became able to leave his

VOL. II. K

bed of leaves, and help himself and pull himself,
leaning against the wall of the tombs,
over the floor of rock. He did not dare to
see the light of day ; even from his deliverer
he was inclined to hide himself as much as
it was possible to do ; he was shy and suspicious,
like a long-hunted animal that fears
even the hand that feeds it, and cannot get
over the fear that its friend's hand hides a
knife. His brain was weakened like his
body by long fasting and suffering ; when he
could think calmly he was ashamed of his
own fears.

Meanwhile, she was sorely troubled by
the simple question of his presence there,
more troubled than she would even acknowledge
to herself. Not because he was a
man, and young and hunted down ; not
because she would be taken and punished by
the law for harbouring; him if the law found
him — not for any of these reasons, but
because she could not tell how she could
maintain him nor how long she could keep
his being there unknown. She herself
wanted so little ; a few berries, a little grain,
a little fruit, and like the birds she was satisfied
— when she had an egg and a cup of
milk she lead a banquet. But how to keep

this stranger, now exhausted by the most
enfeebling of all maladies, and who, each day
recovering more, woidd need more nourishment
— this was a terrible problem. Yet it
never occuiTcd to her to leave him, as she
could so easily have done, and go up to
the hill-villages, where her spinning and her
rush-plaiting would have kept her very
well throughout the winter-time, when all
busy hands are welcome. She never thought
once of deserting him. All at once a duty
seemed to her to have sprung out of the
earth for her as the orchid sprang out of
the rank grass of the moors, to glow on
the dulness of her solitary life as the nupha
lutea gleamed, a cup of virgin gold upon the
stagnant pools.

She knew what he wanted, and would
want more and more — good red wine and
animal flesh — to give him back the strength
of which the insidious marsh fever had
robbed him, emptying his veins of their
blood and health and pouring into them
instead its own poison. The nausea of the
ghastly malady remained with him after the
fever lead ceased to consume him as though
fire were turning his bones to ashes, as the
flame of the woodsmen scorched up the

K 2

strong green wood of robur- and s uglier-oak
into black sticks and shreds of charcoal.
Nothing tasted to him welcome or
good ; it was the sickness of his own palate
that would have found disgust in nectar and
wormwood in the honey of the moorland
thyme-fed bee.

But she did not know that this was but
the inevitable result of the blood-poisoning
he had suffered ; she thought it was because
she had only water for him to drink,
only such poor simple food to give to
him ; and she was distressed beyond any
power of her own to express the infinite
sorrow she felt at her own poverty, her own
incapacity to help him better. All this
time she never asked him one question as to
himself.

Instinctive in her, as his courage is in the
boar, and his gladness in the nightingale, vas
the sense of the sanctity of a fugitive and a
guest, and of the shame that would lie intaking
advantage of power to force confidence.
She longed very greatly to know
his history, to learn what woman had brought
him to such a pass, but no word of inquiry
or hint of one ever passed her lips. He
had said that he was guiltless, and she

Ind said that she believed him : this was
enough.

She waited for hin of his own free will
to tell lier more. He did not do so ; apathy,
and the selfishness of extreme feebleness and
misery, kept him mute and indifferent, and
absorbed in his own past.

An extreme lassitude and impatience
came over him turn by turn ; his long
malady and his terrible privations had
unnerved and paralysed him. Great tears
would gather in his eyes and roll down this
cheeks. He was heart-sick and bruised,
body and soul ; and there was no opiate in
her pharmacy of simples that could give him
rest from his own thoughts. Terror was
always with him ; and he never escaped
from it even in his disturbed and heavy
sleep.

As he recovered his strength, this life
became irksome and almost unendurable ;
these darksome chambers of the dead seemed
almost as abhorrent to him as the prison
cell of Gorgonaa. There was no change from
one morn to another ; only when tui sun
had set did he dare to come to the door of
the tomb, and breathe the air, and cast a
hurried glance, the glance of the hunted

creature, over the silent and lonesome plains.
All that made this silence musical, this loneliness
lovely to her, he did not see. When
he saw the nocturnal plover winging his slow
flight over the marsh, he only envied its
power of motion ; when he heard the great
boar pushing its heavy body through the
brakes of bay, he only fancied it was the
tramp of some pursuing force.

The terror of that life was on him ; he
had been condemned to thirty years of the
chain and the cell. If he were taken, the
sentence would not be lessened ; all his manhood
would go away in agony, as the captive
lion's does. When he should be set free, he
would be old, grey-headed, miserable beyond
compare ; a-childless and friendless outcast,
to whom the unfamiliar world would be full
of unknown faces, strange voices, alien ways,
who would feel in his hideous loneliness tlmt
the galleys had been home.

'Take me back!' said the man who
was let out of prison when he was seventy
years old ; to him the trodden bricks, the
bare stone walls, the warder's round, the very
chains and bars, were all he had of home.

What would you do if they took me ? '
he asked her once.

They should not take lis alive,' she
said ; and he did not notice how she had
identified his finite with her own.

That day lie cleaned and burnished and
gave a sharper edge to this dagger, and to
the long slender stiletto that she always
wore inside her girdle.

It is all we have,' she said sorrowfully,
thinking of the rifles of the hunters and the
carbines of the guards.

Este shuddered.

Ue recalled the ghastly struggle of
unarmed men with full-armed foes, the
horrors of that nii^ht of insurrection when
blood had run like water, and the flash of
musketry had blazed through the darkness,
and alone he and Saturnino had dropped
into the sea, stunned by the blow that water
can give a falling man, and long pursued by
the roar of the <]juns of the fort booming
dully through the night.

She did not know what such scenes
were, but he knew, and he sickened at the
memory of tliein ; his nature had made him
for languor, rest, and love, not combat ; and
he knew that when men wish to die they
never can.

With a passion that was almost madness

he longed to escape from the possibility of
capture, as strength returned into his limbs
and blood, and brought with it all the
natural longings and revolt of manhood.
He had his dagger close within his bosom :
thus, if no other way, he would be free. Musa
was right.

But death was terrible to him, even
while less terrible than the galleys.

To the sensuous and glad temperament of
the Italian, death must ever seem horrible
and cruel ; a blank darkness that closes in
and ends all things. The love of death,
morbid and gloomy, which comes upon the
northern is the choice of a man who knows
not how to live ; who knows not the delight
of love and light ; who has dwelt in mist
and in cold, and never has seen the red rose
of a woman's mouth, or of a southern
dawn, or of a pomegranate flower glowing in
the sun.

It is only to those who have never lived
that death ever can seem beautiful.

To Este, who had been happy when his
mistress kissed him, when his boat floated over
the fields of reeds, when the moon came up
over the meadows and the waters, and the
throb of a lute beat on the soft air like the

sigh of Aphrodite herself — to Este, the tomb
and the galleys were, alike, a yawning void,
in Which lie would sink and perish. The
dread of tliern — a natural dread like that of
the Greeks of old — weighed on him and
made his sight blind, his ears deaf, his soul
insensible.

Scarcely cared he whether it were a
youth or a maiden who waited on him with
those tall slender limbs, those short curling
locks, those grand pitiful eyes.

To get out, to get away, to flee hard and
first over plain and sea, and put all the
width of the earth between him and his
prison — that was his one thirst, this one
dream, his one craze.

He thought only of escape ; meanwhile
she thought only of him. She was like the
maidens of old to whom a god has descended.


For herself she had had no fear ; but
now fear filled all her days with a timidity
alien to her temper, that made every rustle
of a fox amidst the withered canes, every
call of a heron across the marshes, terrible.

NE day a thought struck her that
if she could sell her collection of
herbs she could get money, and so
get food for him. Joconda never
would sell herbs ; she gave all away.
She had said that God's afflicted were not
there for her to make pence out of, and
thus to Musa it had always seemed impossible
to turn her simples into coin. But
now she thought it would be honest dealing
; no shame in it, and no robbery. She
was glad she had gathered and dried so
many plants in the hot autumn weather.
She had a large stock of herbs of all kinds,
sweet and bitter ; some medicinal, some for
kitchen uses. Joconda had taught her all
their various properties, and in the autumn

of the previous year she had gathered a
great store, and dried them and kept them
carefully. They were the only things she
had to sell ; they, and some score of
baskets and mats that she had not given to
Zefferino.

It was a grand day outside ; such days
as, here, deck October and November with
a glory of colour and of luminance that make
all other months of the year seem pale. It
was such weather as made her always seek
the open air from dawn to dark, beside the
sea, or in the brakes and thickets where the
wild boar hid.

She determined that she woidd go to
Telamone and try and sell all she had, and
bring him back some wine and better food.
She was alarmed to see that lie remained so
weak. It seemed to her so unnatural that
a man should lie all the day long listless and
dumb with despair, and no more able to
move than the pine-tree that the foresters
slashed down with their hatchets.

She was alarmed, too, because food there
was none, save a little of the oaten bread
which she could eat but he could not.
Unless she could buy flour she could get
nothing better. Of fish he was weary, and

to go out and fish took her as long as it
would take to go to the little sea-town.

She went, and told him for whom she
slaved that she must be absent some hours.
She was going to Telamone.

He was lying on one of the stone
couches, in that prostration and silence
which had been habitual with him since he
had crept off his bed of fever.

He lifted his languid lids, and looked at
her with suspicion.

Why should you go ? ' he said angrily.

There is nothing to eat in the place,'
she answered him gently. ' You want food
and you want wine, and I am going to get
them both. I will be quick.'

How long will you be ? '

I must be several hours. We are on
the moors here ; the nearest place is far.'

They may take me while you are gone.'

There is no fear of that. I will cover
the entrance so that a polecat would not
find its way down.'

That may not prevent How do

you go ? '

I will walk over to Telamone. It will
be nearer so. I had thought of the boat, but
it will be nearer across the land,'

He looked at her and let her go in
silence.

He was ashamed and afraid to tell her
that he doubted her. Even his dazed mind
could see that there was no treachery in
those clear fearless eyes. Yet all the time
she was absent he would doubt her ; strain
his ear at every sound, and whet his dagger,
the only weapon he had.

She put her herbs in a great frail
basket, took the few articles she had made
wide the reeds and the canes, swung them
across her back, and stepped out for the
shore.

It was a grand autumnal morning,
steeped in the colour and the moisture of
late autumn.

The grass was embroiled with the
red brown feathers of the graceful 
and the fairy-like sprays of the
tremolino,^ and every moss-grown nook was
painted delicately with the exquisite colour
of the tender cyclamen-flowers hanging over
the moist autumnal earth, leaves, and
looking like rose-tinted shells. The golden
stars of the dandelions were gleaming everywhere,
and above the blossoms of the ivy

^ Panic ciliary. ' Briza maxima.

swarms of wild bees were humming in
ecstasy ; but in the water-places the reeds
and canes where growing ragged and broken,
the nuphar and the nympha3a leaves vere
getting yellow and torn, and here and there
a leaf fluttered from the silver poplar-trees.

To walk against the wind, to feel the
wet grass under her feet, to smell the fresh
scent of the sods as a troop of young horses
galloped past her, scattering the earth with
their unshod hoofs in merry scampers, unconscious
of the cruel fate — of the whip,
and the curb, and the shafts, and the brutal
mastery — that waited for them in the future ;
all these sights and sounds of nature where
such delights that the pressure of anxiety
which weighed upon her for the sake
of the man she protected was lifted off her.
as she went ; and her young body, and the
heart that beat in it, both felt light as
thistletlown.

She saluted all her friends and familiars.
She saw the first flight of herons of the
year sailing towards the Ciminian range ;
she saw a goose alight, jaded after long
journeying, and settle, as if With a sigh of
content, in a fringe of the red reeds ; she
espied some grasshopper warblers in the

sedges, and she saw a water-rail, arrived
before his female, look around him, calling,
and wearing his little mind out with seeking
Lier high and low upon the waters of his
favoured pool, she all the while most likely
flying steadily and faithfully towards him,
but afar off where he could not see her,
and where, perhaps, a shot would lay her
low and widow his tender constancy.

All these, and many another welcome
and well-known comrade, she saw as she
struck across the moors and thickets, and the
black heads of the buffaloes pushed themselves
up above the red-berried briony, and
the wild swine began to sniff for the first
acorns of the scarlet oak, and the beautiful
buck fled across the sunlight, made timid
in his innocence because man has so much
of the devil and spares nothing.

She was so glad to see them all again.

It seemed to her acres since lie had been
free to run and loiter at choice amidst these
green solitudes. But she could only give
them a glance and a smile ; she was bound,
or she thought so, to be no longer away
from the tombs than lie could help. Iter
voluntary loyalty to the man she sheltered
was like a chain upon her foot that was

fleet as the roebuck's and had been as
free.

She walked on rapidly, and sorely
tempted to turn aside into many a leafy
defile she knew of, where the hill-hare
made its form, to pause beside many a
sedge-rimmed shallow where the sultan-hen
was splashing. But she resisted the
lon«^inoj to revisit all those beloved haunts
that she shared with the winged and the
four-footed peoples. She held on straight
across the narrow dangerous paths that
intersected the marshes, and the cattle-tracks
that led through the mazes of underwood,
and after some hours of incessant
motion she saw the castle on its headland
that marked Telamone. Another hour
brought her to its desolate beach, where
the ruins of many a Eoman villa divide the
sand with the stunted aloes and the glazier's
weed.

It is a dreary, dirty, miserable place,
though in other ages it was decked with the
snowy marbles of patrician palaces, and
bore, on its then deep waters, the gilded
pleasure-galleys of the great Eomans.

Here she tried in vain to sell what she
had brought ; the few people were too poor

to be willing to spend a bronze coin even,
on field medicines which they knew were
good. They recognised her and asked her
where she had been all this while. She
pointed vaguely eastward and told them she
had fomid work to do over yonder, and she
only now wished to sell her herbs because
she wanted a little money to spend at the
autumnal fairs.

This they thought so natural that the
Telamone women were willing to help her.
They told her of a pharmacy in Orbetello
where her simples would be willingly
bought, and one of the old men, called
Feboo, who had his felucca lying off the
dirty, shallow port, where once Marius
landed with his thousand men, said to her :

You used to be a good one on a deck ;
I n-ant to go to the Orbetellano ; if you take
the tiller, I will carry you there.'

That is kind of you,' she said gratefully.

Nay, nay, you will give me something
when you have sold your stuff,' said he.
The wind will serve us ; we shall ^y. You
know the water hereabouts ; you will not
run us aground ? '

Not I,' she answered as she sprang on
deck.

VOL. II. L

The little felucca did fly ; these butterfly-like
boats are the lightest and the swiftest in
the world. A strong wind was blowing
from the north-east and made the little sail
swell out as if it were a soap-bubble
being blown by the children of Glaucus in
play.

I shall be so late home ! ' she thought
with a pang as the blue water raced past
the sides of the boat, and the sandy shore,
and the red tufa hills, and the white vapours
rising from the morass, and the stately line
of the receding mountains all drifted by her
as they went. Her eyes filled as she saw
the old stone house where she had dwelt
with Joconda standing against the crumbling
quay of Santa Tarsilla, whose stones were
fewer every year as the Rains soaked them,
and the weeds dragged them down, and the
stormy water sapped their base.

Andrea is always alive ? ' she asked of
the old man with her.

He chuckled, 'Ay, ay, always. We old
blasted sea-pines are hard to kill ; all the
sap has been run out of us, but we hold fast
on the sand. I am eighty years old, and
Andreino he must be going on for a
Hundred, but we are alive, we can suck our

pipe-stems still ; and there were two
youngsters from the Liicchese just come
clown here who died last week like flies,
just of our air and our smoking soil. You
die early, or never, here.'

She did not answer him. The words
sent a chill through her blood ; she thought
of the man at home. He was young and of
the blood of the north ; the fever had eaten
all the life out of him, and it was still very
possible that he never would rally entirely,
but would sink away out of apathy into
death, as slowly and as surely as the sea was
sinking away from the shore and leaving
disease and desolation, where once the coral
lead grown and the dianthus spread his pale
pink plumes.

The old sailor mumbled and chattered on
of the seaboard as he had remembered it,
and the time when he had known the great
Avorks begun in 1829 for the drying up of
the Castiglione lagoon (once so fair and
harmless a lake that we know from Cicero
rich men coveted an island on it), and
chuckled to himself over his prediction that
the bonijicamenio that was still going on
would be only so much squandering of
money and labour, and that the salt and

L 2

IVesli water would always manage to meet,
all engineers notwithstanding, and that they
would repent ever having meddled with the
ways of God aud the course of the Ambrose,
and that he for his part should be glad to seethe
houses of the Pescaja sink down into the
swamp, for he liked not such meddling with
the shape of the earth and the run of the
rivers ; and he expected heaven's vengeance yet.

Musa listened inattentively, though his
views were her own, for she too hated ' the
meddling ' with the streams and the waves,
the dykes and the locks that shut out the sea,
the drainage that killed the little fish and
the reeds and the brilliant marsh flora, and
the men who would fain make a dry place,
and build a factory, or a foundry, where the
bulrushes now nodded to their own reflection
in the water and the birds froai the north
found food and shelter.

Almost as quickly as a storm-gull could
have flown there, the felucca sailed over the
ten odd miles that part Telamone from
Monte Argentaro, and, drawing so little
water, ran easily in over the sandy bottom
and thrush the submerged fields of alors
into the stagno, and lay to underneath the
huge block of the Pelasgic sea-wall. .

Then ruin seemed to menace her, for she
was stopped on landing by the customs-takes,
and toll and fee were imperiously
demanded for her bundles of herbs and her
frail baskets, and she had not a single coin
upon her ! She had not one in the world,
indeed, for Zefferino had always paid her by
barter for whatever he sold for her, and had
brought her food or oil or flax or wool, and
never any money.

As a great favour and goodness, the
guards at last, after debating and scolding
half an hour, agreed to take two of her
baskets in heu of the number of centimes
that she ought to have paid to the State.

Eh, Musoncella,' said old Feboo, tutrainfj^
her sleeve as they landed, and pointing to a
proclamation pasted on the water-walls,
can you read that ? I cannot. They say
there is money to be made. You who are
always roaming, you may come across that
man they want.'

She looked where he pointed ; and went
up to the big printed letters and spelled
them out slowly, not being skilful in reading.


Her heart beat fast ; lier eves seemed to
grow for the moment blind.

The State offered a large reward in
money to any one who should aid in the
discovery and apprehension of the Count
Luitbrand teste, escaped from the prisons
of Gorgonaa fifteen months before.

The proclamation had been pasted up,
and torn down, or defaced, and put up again,
some hundred times since the summer night
when the galley-slaves had dropped off the
rocks into the deep water and swum for their
lives, with the musket-balls raining around
them and hissing in the sea.

The people of the Orbetellano had more
sympathy with the fugitives than with the
authorities, and thought that the young man
was hardly dealt with : ' Poor lad ! It was
only a love murder,' they said pityingly.
'After all, if you are jealous and stab your
dama, you do what is but natural. Does not
the stork kill the faithless mate ? So they
say.'

She read it ; but she had self-control
enough to let no emotion betray her ; side
by side with strong passions in her went
strong self-command and power of silence.

I should think,' she said indifferently, turning
to Feboo, ' that they might be pretty sure
that the marshes have killed this poor youth.

What will you do, Feboo, if they should take
to offering rewards for whoever will tell of
contraband goods run ashore to Maremma ? '

She smiled slowly as she said it, and the
old man winced.

Hold your tongue,' he said angrily,
and with these doganieri — burn them ! — so
near ; are you mad ? Come, let us go and
find your pharmacy

She was free to go into the town, which
to her seemed a large bewildering place,
enclosed as it was between its stone fortifications
and its sea-walls. She had never
been there before, and she had the true
mountain and moorland instincts of distrust
and hatred for all places Avhere men dwelt
in numbers, cooped up in stone or brick
compartments, and shut out by tiles and
timber from the sight of the sky.

The men began to stare at her and make
admiring jests ; she pulled further over her
head the woollen hood which Joconda lead
always enjoined on her to cover herself with
if she went amidst a crowd ; and laden with
her goods she set to work to find out the
pharmacy, and did find it in time, though
with trouble.

It was a little dark vaulted place, made

out of no one knew what old ruin of
Eoman work.

She knocked and went in boldly, and
found an old chemist, who was the leech of
half the Orbetellano, and far more trusted
by the people than the youth with many
greater accredited qualifications who was set
by the municipal rule to cure their ills as
parish doctor and surgeon.

The chemist was a wise and kindly
person, curing chiefly by those herbs which
modern medicine neglects, to ransack nature
for minerals and poisons. He was liberal
and could afford to be so, for he had a large
following in the maritime population, and
when the haul was large after the night's
fishing those men were open-handed. He
was pleased to see so rare and large a store
of the most useful plants, and said so
honestly, and questioned her where she
found them, and asked her how much she
wanted for them.

'I want quinine, not money,' she
answered him, ' but if you can give me
money too, I shall be glad ; I have none,
and I want to get wine as well.'

You have some one sick ? A father ?
A brother ? '

I have some one who has been sick,'
she answered curtly. ' But he is only weak
now. But it is such weakness ! — it is like
death.'

He has had the fever ? '

Yes. Quinine is what he should have,
is it not? You would know.'

Quinine and pure wine. I will give
you both for your herbs ; and as for those
baskets, I dare say my wife will take them.'

He called his wife, and she haggled
more than he liked over the baskets, but at
last consented to buy the lot. Frail baskets
are much in favour here, and are used by
women marketing, by masons and carpenters
for their tools, by anybody who has to carry
anything and can carry it with most ease
thus.

The wife gave her a handful of bronze
pence for the lot, and knew she could sell
them again for as many silver ones. The
chemist put up quinine in two large phials,
and three flasks of piu'e Campagna wine.

That is strong and good red Lacrima,'
he said to her. ' That will pour life into
your sick man as the sunbeams pour colour
into the green fruit. As for the quinine —
you can read ? — then give it him as I have

written on the phials, and if that do not
cure him, nothing will, but our Maremma
will take him to herself as she takes so
many. Can you carry those flasks ? See,
sling them together so ; and when you have
other simples to sell, bring them to me.
They are God's own medicines.'

She thanked him and Event out ; at the
door he slipped a little money in her
hand.

'You were not paid enough for your
baskets, my dear ; and get your sick man
some meat with that.'

I will bring you the rarest plants in all
Maremma,' she said, with a tremor in her
voice, ' and you shall pay me nothing at all
for them. You are good.'

Ashamed of her emotion, she ran away
up the little dark twisting street.

At the end of it, the old owner of the
felucca was waiting.

'You will give me something now,' he
said ; ' you have done well.'

I will pay you when we are back at
Telamone,' she said, knowing her people.

Oh, no, indeed,' said the old fellow
angrily ; ' that will not do at all. In the
first place, I am not going back. My son

lives here and we go harpooning to-night.
You must pay me now.'

I have no right to pay you. You were
coming, and you said I might steer. And
how shall I get back without the felucca ?
You will let me have the felucca at least ? I
can manage her all alone quite welL'

Eh, eh, Musoncella ! ' grinned the old
man, ' you will not pay for the voyage here,
and you think I shall trust you with my
boat? I go out in her to-night myself; that
is why I came. Pay me now, or I Avill
make it worse for you ; and if I call a guard,
then I shall know where you really live, for
it is my belief '

What will content you ? ' she said in
desperation, feeling her cheeks grow cold
with fear.

'Pay him nothing,' said a voice behind
her, and turning she saw the face of
Danielloo Villamagna, the Sicilian skipper.
Pay him nothing, and let him stay herewith
his cockle-shell. The " Ausiliatrice "
will land you where you will.'

Oh, I was only joking,' said the old
sailor, for he knew the skipper of the
'Ausiliatrice,' and knew his tongue was hot
and his knife not very slow to back up what

his tongue spoke, and he had no wish to
come in collision with this son of the lava
of etna.

Musa looked from one to the other
doubtfully. She was sorry to see Danielloo
Villamagna there.

You will let me have your boat,' she
said, in a low tone imploringly to the man
of Telamone. ' Pray let me have it. It
will be quite safe with me, and I will give
you silver for its use.'

Oh no ; that I cannot anyhow,' said
the man ; ' I go out to-night — I have
promised my son.'

My brig is off the stagno ; she cannot
come in, there is no draught for her. But
if you will come out to her she shall
land you where you choose,' said the
Sicilian.

I can hire a boat on the stagno^' said
Musa, and she turned away from them both
and began to make her way back to the
port, pausing at a butcher's stall to buy some
sound fresh meat, as the chemist had bade
her do.

The Sicihan sailor followed her ; he
looked amidst the yellow faces and the
yellow sands of Orbetello like a native of

some other planet ; his warm brown cheeks,
his brilliant eyes, this elasticity of step, his
rapid movements, were all the signs of a
perfect health and a dauntless manhood ; a
scarlet cap upon his black curls, and a
scarlet kerchief at his shapely throat, caught
the sunshine as he went. His glance was
full of triumph and gladness.

Eh, Musoncella ! ' he murmured. ' You
see I kept my word. I am back in four
months. I was coming to you.'

She felt the great dread tighten at her
heart.

How should 3'ou come to me ? ' she
said, with assumed indifference. *You
cannot tell where to find me.'

I should soon find you ; there are
not two like you on these shores. Have
you ever thought of what I said to you ? '

No. Why should I think of it ? '

I have thought of nothing else night
and day. I love you ! *

That is nonsense. I can be nothing to
you. Why will you walk through the
streets with me ? I dislike it.'

You never remembered me, never
once ? '

'Why should I?'

All, Musoncella ! The old man called
you aright.'

She smiled superbly.

They have always called me that.'

But if you would listen,' he pursued,
the passionate blood flushing his*clear brown
skin, 'I am no poor, sickly, dawdling
Maremmano, and my brig — she is as good a
barque as the high seas hold. And Sicily is
beautiful, and at home we laugh and sing
and dance all day ; and my people are
merry and good, and we are well enough
off* to deny ourselves nothing in reason.
And in Sicily the men are strong, and
the maidens gay. You would be happy
there. I love you ! I have seen nothing
but your face ; it was always between me
and the great tumbling Biscay breakers,
and the thick white fogs of that Scottish
coast, where once nearly we foundered,
and went to pieces, for the fog there
is like a wall, and the very lightship is

hidden in it ah, you do not listen ; you

do not care. Yet heaven is my witness ; if
you will, I will prove my love in every
honest way before men and the saints, and I
will take you back with me to the island
and be more proud than if my hold were

filled with gold and silver. And if you
doubt what I say and what I am, you can
ask the syndic of this very town, for he
has known me and my people many years,
since my father traded here '

Musa only tried to move faster before
him.

You are mad, I think,' she said
angrily. She thought he was. A man to
talk thus who had only seen her once before
for five minutes, on a summer morning,
upon the sands !

In vain he urged, in vain he pleaded ; he
could make no impression upon her as he
Walked beside lier, pouring out his full heart
in words as the nightingale pours his in
song. He was vehemently in earnest ; he
cared nothing for who she might be, nor
whence she came : he wanted her, this
strong and fearless and beautiful creature!
What a mother lie would be for sea-born
children cradled by the winds and
waves !

He might as well Jive spoken to a figure
of bronze for aught that she was moved
by it.

She scarcely Heard him ; she was thinking
every moment of the fugitive hidden in

the tombs of the rocks : was he safe ?
did he want for anything in her absence?
might faintness overcome him and, without
succour, pass into the endless swoon of
death ? if he were well, was he wondering
why she was so long, was he doubting her ?
would the old man of Telamone talk of her
and cause her refuge to be found ?

All these anxieties were torturing her ;
what cared she for a foolish, fire-tongued
Sicilian who doubtless said all those fine
phrases to somebody in every port at
which the ' Ausiliatrice ' touched ?

Soon they had threaded the dirty streets
and come out upon the harbour. It was a
busy day ; fishermen by the hundred sat on
the sea walls, or swarmed on the narrow
tongues of land that join Argentaro with
the mainland ; the harpooning of the night
was to be on a large scale, shoals of fish had
been seen, and, less welcome, several large
sharks. The men were telling long and
grim shark stories one to another ; the fishing
fleet was all ready and anchored, but
the fishing had to wait for the dark of the
moonless night.

One part of the sea-wall had been
recently washed down during a tempest ;

those huge blocks of Pelasgic or Tyrrhene
architecture have seen the storms of centuries
when Alexander was yet unborn and
Christ and Cix^sar names unknown. Three
thousand sears and more the sea has
raged at them in its furies of autumn and
of winter, but it has only been able to displace,
never been able to destroy them.

At these vast blocks, which tax the
strength of yoked oxen, a gang of galley-slaves
was working ; the overseer was near
them with his whip, as though they were
wild beasts of an arena and he their tamer.

One of them, a Hercules in build, and
burnt black with the sun on all his naked
limbs and throat, looked up and saw her
and knew her.

It was Saturnino. He had not yet been
moved from Orbetello since his capture
there.

She looked at the great black figure of the
man with a pity that quenched the scorn she
had always felt for the baseness of his theft.
She knew his story : the great Saturnino as
the country side still called him ! And he
was working there as elephants do in timber-gangs,
old before his time, calcined with sun
and powder, bent but massive still, with

VOL. II. M

angry, sullen, bloodshot eyes gleaming like a
lion's out from this black bent brows.

She pitied him, and that pity came back
like dew on her own heart. Almost she
loved this cruel, savage, brute-ike creature,
stained with so much blood, burdened with
so many crimes. Had he not sent her Este !

That memory made her eyes soft as they
dwelt on him ; he saw their softness, and
deep down in his fierce, ravenous, sullen
heart he was glad.

Does she know I robbed her tomb .^ ' he
thought — galley-slaves hear nothing.

On an instinct of pity she paused beside
him a moment.

He had taken the gold of the tomb, and
he was foi' that accursed, and he had betrayed
and wronged her shelter of him, and when
she had heard of his capture she had been
ferocious in her triumph. Yet now that she
saw him she was sorry ; sorry as she felt for
the great boar dien she saw him plunge
through the rushes bleeding and torn, with
the hounds at his flanks and the steam of
his panting lungs coming like smoke from
his red tongue.

She longed to say a syllable to tell him
that his companion in flight was safe with

her, but she dared not lest others should
overhear. She nevertheless paused by him
one moment and slipped one of the silver
coins the chemist lead given her into his
hand.

Yes ; I know,' she murmured, answering
the guilty interrogation of his eyes.
You robbed the dead. That was worse
than robbing me. But I think they would
forgive — now.'

Something in the tone of her voice
brought to him the echo of a voice that he
had loved ; the voice of Serapia.

He put her coin between his teeth in
silence. Then, as he looked up and saw her
standing in the full daylight, with bare head
and throaty something in her aspect and her
features stirred memory in his brain.

He seemed to see hiss own slice in the
innocence of its adolescence as it had looked
back at him mirrored in some hillside pool in
that season of his boyhood when no blood
Alas on his hands, no price was on his head.

A thrill of remembrance, a throb of
wonder, stirred the sluggish apathy into
which his ferocious passions had sunk under
the drugs of monotony, inactivity, and
despair.

h2

He had become half madman, half brute,
the dullest, most savage, most hopeless unit
of all that hopeless world to which he now
belonged. But for that one moment
humanity stirred in him — he was a man
once more.

He remembered the little child that he
had left under the stone-plies on the crags
above the Flora torrents.

He sprang forward, he cried out, the
whip of the overseer lashed him back into
the ranks, the guards hustled him with oaths
into silence.

Musa passed on, going she knew not
where.

Danielloo Yillamac^na looked hard at her.

You did not turn your face from that
hound,' he said jealously.

He is a hound chained, and so to be
pitied,' she answered him.

He was the robber of Santa Flora.'

I know.'

Her face was sad and anxious ; she was
thinking" of him who had been sent to herby
Saturnino.

Out in the deeper water beyond the
Argentaro rocks the Sicilian brig was at
anchor ; a trim vessel still, though she had

been buffeted about in the mists and storms
off the Scottish shores.

Danielloo pointed to her where she lay
rocking gently on the wondrous blue of the
Archipelago.

If you will come out to her,' he said
softly, and more timidly than he had spoken
before, ' I swear on the good faith of a
sailor to put you ashore where you will, and
to speak no word whilst you are on my deck
of what you do not choose to hear.'

I can hire a boat,' said Musa, and she
turned and tried to bargain with a ragged lad
who had an old punt there beneath the wall.
But the youth would not be hired or bribed ;
there was the night-spearing to be seen
and shared ; no man or boy would leave
Orbetello with that prospect of delight in
store for the evening as soon as the slender
crescent of the young moon should have
vanished.

You will get no boat here,' said
Danielloo. ' Not one of them will stir this
afternoon. Since you are distrustful of the
Ausiliatrice " hear this : yonder is my own
boat, with which I pulled from the ship
here ; there are some of my crew about ;
you could not row that boat yourself, but I

will send the best man I have with you
wherever you want to go.'

She was silent.

I will not come with you myself,' he
added, ' since you flout and hate me so. But
remember what I have said, and I shall see
you and say it again.'

She was still silent ; she could not bear
to owe him a service, but there was something
gr in this generosity of his action which

O CD *>

touched her as all his amatory eloquence
had had no power to do. She could not
endure to use his boat, yet' unless she did so
she could never reach home that night, and
what would Este think of her? What
might not happen to him, alone, and feeble,
and without food ?

As she hesitated, the Sicilian shouted to a
sailor on the little isthmus of sand ; his own
boatswain, a man of years and one to be
trusted. The boatswain ran to his call, and
Danielloo whispered to him. A long shm boat
was soon aground against the sand.

That will take you where you wish to
go,' he said, and his large black eyes gazed
on her with a reproach that dimmed their
fire and light.

She looked at him with a certain shame.

I am thankful to yoii,' she said simply.
But give me your word first that when I
land your sailor shall not follow me

Sailors are not spies,' said the Cilicia
with a haughty anger. ' No ; I take no
impair means. But we shall meet again. It
is written.'

Farewell,' she said to]iim,and she sprang
into the boat, and took the tiller-cords.

For herself she would not have done it.
For herself she would rather have run all
the certain dangers of night upon the
moors than have incurred this debt to the
man whose frank fiiir passion seemed to her
an intolerable ofFence. But, left to herself,
she knew she could never reach Clamour,
much less the sepulchres, that night ; already
the sun was slanting towards the sea, already
the glowing amber of his afternoon beams
was falling like molten gold upon the many-coloured
sails of the numerous fishing craft
that lay close in to shore upon the salt-water
lagoon, and further out under the shadow of
the twin-peaked rocks.

The boatswain pulled with long and
steady stroke against the nor-wester that
was blowing still. It was Ave Maria when
she reached Telamone. The mariner carried

out his orders strictly, and when he ran her
into the harbour never asked her a word, but
turned his boat's head with a cheery ' goodnight,'
and sculled himself back again towards
the south.

It was vesper-time and in another moment
would be night. She got through
the little town as quickly as she could, holding
the precious medicine closer in her
bosom, for quinine was coveted there like
the very elixir of life. She had eight or
nine miles of moor and hill and woodland
and marsh before her still ; but she was
not afraid, once in her own country as she
called it. Of the less known lands around
Telamone she was less confident.

She had her knife slipped, safe and
secret, in her garter and a bold heart in
her breast ; she walked on without pausing,
through the damp warm night, full of vapour,
only just rustled by the wind from
the north, which, though it was strong and
high upon the sea, had little power over
the low and close-woven foliage. She
met nothing worse, however, than a mounted
buffalo-driver, who swore at her because
the lantern she had lit to save herself from
straying into the swamps had frightened

the horse he rode ; and all her furred and
feathered friends of the season who liked
to hunt and travel by night ; the grand-dukes
and the smaller owls, were out, of course,
and all the various races of the snipe tribe
were busy after molluscs or mice, larvae, or
frogs, according to their size and prowess ;
the moor fox vas stealing through the
osiers to where the moorhen slept, and the
first wild ducks of the year flew by against
the slender horns of a new moon. Once a
great dark bird sailed over her head so near
that she could almost have touched him ;
it was a belated booted-eagle going from
his summer haunts on Monte Amiato to
his Asian or African eyrie on Himalaya or
on Atlas.

Save these she met nothing.

Men do not care to be out on the
Maremma lowlands after sunset ; every pretty
brown tarn reflecting clouds and stars may bea
poison-bowl of noxious gases ; every will-o'-the-wisp
that dances over the hairy sundew
and the vernal sandwort may be a torch that
leads on to the grave.

She met no creature to do her harm,
and knew her country so well that she
did not lose her way or miss the unsteady

IN MAREMMA.

bridge that oftentimes the rou^fli tussocks of
grass alone offered as passage across some
marsh that was like a soaking sponge. It
was midnight, she thought by the skies,
when she reached the tombs and knocked
aloud at the stone doors, and called with a
tired but happy voice, ' Open ! it is I ! '

LL this day and evening Este lead
passed in the alternate stupor and
agitation of o-reat fear. Against
his judgment, against his manliness,
he could not conquer the idea that she
had gone to give him up to the law. He
was very feeble ; the simple fare that kept
her in health lead no power to restore the
lost strength to his muscles or vivify his
impoverished blood. He had nothing to do
the whole day long ; the gloom of the
sepulchres, from wliicli he dared not stir,
oppressed him like a nightmare. His weak
pulse beat fast with terror as he said in his
soul, ' she is gone to tell them. She will
never come back. Lie will only send the
soldiers.'

When he heard her voice he could
have screamed for gladness. When he saw
her enter with the flasks of wine on her
shoulders he laughed for very joy and kissed
her feet for shame.

I have brought the quinine and good
Lacrima,' she said to him joyfully, yet
with a tinge of reproachfuiness in her voice.
Why did you doubt me ? I do not tell lies.'

Forgive me ! Hunted creatures doubt
their own shadows. You sold the herbs
well, then ? '

Ah, yes ! so well, and to a kind old
man who promised me that these would
soon give you back your strength.'

You never told him of me ? '

I did not tell him of you, of course ;
only that some one had had the marsh-fever
and could not get health again. I had to
go to Orbetello ; that is what has made me
so late.'

What can I say to you ? How can I
repay you ? '

Ah ! I want nothing but to see you
well. You have suffered so long and so
nuich.'

Yes, I have suffered. But I do not see
why you should care,' he said, using the

same words that she had spoken to Maurice
Sanctis.

She said nothing, but poured liii out
some of the rich red Vine, which he drank
eagerly.

It is Hke drinking sunbeams,' he said,
with the first smile that had dawned on his
wasted features. ' Tell me, how could you
get to Orbetello ? '

Feboo, a fisherman of Telamone, took
me there.'

But he will suspect ? '

Nothing — he is stupid, and, if he did,
he knows that I know he smuggles goods
from Sardinia ; he will hold this tongue
about me.'

There are many smugglers on the
coast r '

There are few people, but all the men
that there are do smuggle — from the islands
chiefly, to escape the customs dues. Why
not? Do you know that when a Tuscan
labourer comes back from working in Sardinia
they make him pay duty on his
Sardinian wooden shoes ? '

He was silent ; he was pondering
whether one of those smugglers would take
him across to France. Jilt lie had no

money to offer as a bribe, and the crime of
which he had been accused was one for
which any country would surrender him upto
undergo his sentence in his own land.

You are very good to me,' he said
with emotion as he saw her rake together
the embers of the fire and begin to prepare
his evening meal.

I do not know that ! ' said Musa, and
turned on him her luminous eyes that were
like those of Carlo's divine messengers. ' I
am sorry for you, and you have no one
else.'

For the first time, the glance of her eyes
startled him into perception of her as a
young girl.

Are you not afraid to come and go
like this, alone ? '

I have my knife,' she said curtly ; then,
tired as she was, she turned away to light
wood for a fire, and put the meat she had
brought into water, making graceful this
homely work by her own simplicity and
grace as women did in days of old, when
great Demeter herself thought household
cares no shame.

He sat by the blazing wood and cones of
pine and watched her ; for the first time

sensible of her beauty, for the first time also
grateful for all she did for him.

It was she who gathered the wood and
the fir apples ; it was she who cut the dry
heather to keep for fuel; it was she who
fished, who span, ^vho worked in all ways,
who brought heavy loads upon her shoulders
and shared her refui]^e with him, disdaining
any personal fear or harm. It seemed to him
that he ought to rise and go out into the
daylight amongst men at all peril rather than
bring risk and toil upon a woman — a girl —
thus.

She appeared to divine his thoughts, for
she spoke to him across the stone chamber
of the Liicumo :

I do not know that it is safe for
you to be in this first room. I heard to-day
in Orbetello that there is a reward up for
you, and they say soldiers have come anew
to the fort at Santa Tarsilla ; there never
have been any there in my remembrance.'

He shivered a little.

A reward ? You saw it ? '

Yes, for you ; it. describes you. And
Feboo said to me — '' If you see yon poor soul
on your moorlands there are gold and silver
to be made." '

And what did you answer him ? '

I told him he knew I was no trapper of
birds or beasts. I thought it best to tell
you this, because you must hide more carefully
; the inner rooms are safest. They
call you in that printing on the walls Count
teste. You did not call yourself so ? '

Men call me so,' he said, wearily, * or
did so until I became a mere number
amongst slaves.'

That is a title, is it not ? '

A title, barren as the honourable names
written under the paintings of these tombs !
We were a branch of the Este of Ferrara,
the great Este — the mightiest lords there
were ever, save the Gonzaga and the .
That is of no good now. All we
have is a damp, ruined palace in Mantua, a
few breadths of water-meadows ; beyond
Bergamo there is a little city on a rock —
men come to it for its arts and architecture —
that once was ours. Now we do not own a
brick within its walls, and it is only remembered
by travellers now and then because
its houses are Bramante's and Sansovino's,
and its altars are Giovanni Bellini's. We are
almost as dead, almost as forgotten, as your
Etruscans here.'

You know who they were ? ' she said
under her breath, as she spoke of her lost
people. ' Tell me of them ? When first I
entered here, there was a king in golden
armour, and with a golden helmet, lying-there,
just there ; and as the light touched
him the gold melted and he fled '

They were a great people, and they
perished,' he answered her ; ' their clay
vases survive, but they are gone, obliterated,
passed into nothingness. Stow and then
men find a wall of huge stones ; a gateway
hard and black as iron ; a sepulchre full of
gold and pottery. Then they say these were
Etruscan. But when that is said, it is but a
word ; we know but little.'

They were greater than the men that
live now,' she said, with a solemn tenderness.

Perhaps ; wdiy think you so ? '

Because they were not afraid of their
dead ; they built them beautiful houses and
gave them beautiful things. Now, men are
afraid or ashamed, or they have no remembrance.
Their dead are huddled a^vay in
dust or mud as though they were hateful or
sinful. That is what I think so cowardly,
so thankless. If tlicy will not bear the
sicrht of death, it were better to let meat

VOL. II, N

ships go slowly out, far out to sea, and give
the waves their lost ones.'

Great ships whose freights should be
death ? Yes ; the thought is fine. Would you
mantle them with black like the homeward-coming
vessels of Theseus ? They should bethe
sailing ships of old, with " canvas stately
in the wind," and their masts twined with
myrtle, Greek-like '

Tell me more of them ? ' she said softly,
motioning with her hand to the painted
shapes upon the walls dimly glimmering
into colour here and there as the lamp-hight
touched them.

There is so little ! My own Mantua was
once theirs, named from their Mantus, that
grim god of the land of shades — you see
him yonder — we Latins called him Pluto.
With other names, their deities and ours
were all the same.'

But was Christ amongst them ? '

No, dear ; Christ was not born of a
woman until this nation had been beaten,
captured, absorbed, trodden under the iron
heel of Eome. Christianity is a thing of
yesterday ; it looks beside Etruscan creeds
as this year's bulrush beside the holm oak
of the hills.'

Aud where are those earlier gods ? '

'Around us still; they are the unknown
forces, the unalterable fates, that rule us
then as now. What matter whether I called
you Luna, or Supra, or Hera, or Juno, or
Musa ; you would be yourself always, and
always beautiful, as your marsh-lies are that
glow in gold upon the swamp.'

For the first time in all her seventeen
years of life her face grew warm with a
quick blush.

I am not handsome,' she said, quickly.
'They call me Musoncella, the ugly face,
always on the shore. If you want what is
handsome you should see Giano's Mariannina
; she has hair like the scales of the gold
and red mullet.'

I do not want Giano's Mariaimina ! ' he
said, with a soft intonation that escaped her.

'Well, she would be of no use here,' she
answered him literally. ' She thinks of
nothing all day but "gilding "her hair in
the sun and getting bits of coral.'

Then she devoted her care to the meat
broth she was setting on the wood fire in a
bronze bowl ; his heavy eyes watched her
as she bent over the ruddy gleam from the
crackling heather.

N 2

You must be tired,' he said, with sudden
perception of his own selfishness. ' Go and
rest, my dear ; pray go. I can wait very
well for the broth until morning.'

Oh no. You shall have it as soon as the
fire will stew it. I am not greatly tired. You
know I am made of strong stuff, and I rested
in the boats.'

He did not urge her more.

As she sat by the fire she took some of
her oaten bread, and some water, and made
her supper of them, sitting beside the burning
wood that sent out resinous odours
as it burned.

I ought to tell you why I am accused
of this crime and condemned for it,' he said
abruptly, after long silence. ' You ought to
know — you who do so much for me on
trust. You have a right to hear w^liy they
hunt me down as a murderer.'

Do not tell it if it hurt you,' said Musa,
as he paused. She saw that he shrank from
telling the tale ; and the temptation that
was too strong for Psyche had never assailed
her yet.

Yes ; you have a right to know. After
all, it was ruin to me, but it is not much of a
story ; a tale-teller With his guitar on a

vintage iiiglit would soon make a better one.
I loved a woman. She lived in Mantua.
So did I, too. For her sake I lost three
whole years — three years of the best of my
life. And yet, what is gain except love, and
what better than joy can we have ? A
pomegranate is ripe but once. And I — my
pomegranate is rotten for evermore ! We
lived ill Mantua. It is a strange sad place.
It was great and gay enough once. Grander
pomp than Mantua's there was never known
ill Italy. Felix Mantua ! — and now it is
all decaying, mouldering, sinking, fading ; it
is silent as death ; the mists, the waters, the
empty palaces, the walls that the marshes
are eating little by little every day, the grass
and the moss and the wild birds' nests on the
roofs, on the temples, on the bridges, all are
desolate in Mantua now. Yet is it beautiful
in its loneliness, when the sunrise comes over
the seas of reeds, and the towers and the
arches are reflected in the pools and streams ;
and yet again at wight, when the moon is
hiujli and the lagoons are as sheets of silver,
and the shadows come and go over the
bulrushes and S. Andrea lifts itself against
the stars. Yes ; then it is still Mantova J a
Gloriosa.'

His voice dropped ; the tears came into
his closing eyes as though he looked on the
dead face of a familiar friend.

He felt the home sickness of the exile, of
the wanderer who knows not where to lay
his head.

The glory was gone from the city.

Its greatness was but as a ghost that
glided through its deserted streets calling in
vain on dead men to arise.

The rough red sail of the fishing boat
was alone on the waters once crowded with
the silken sails of gilded galleys ; the toad
croaked and the stork made her nest where
the lords of Gonzaga had gone forth to meet
their brides of Este or of Medici; Virgil,
Alboin, great Karl, Otho, Petrarca, Ariosto,
had passed by here over this world of waters
and become no more than dreams ; and the
vapours and the dust together had stolen the
smile from Giulio's Psyche, and the light
from Mantegna's arabesques. On the vast
walls the grass grew, and in the palaces of
princes the winds wandered and the beggars
slept. All was still, disarmed, lonely, forgotten
; left to a silence like the silence of the
endless night of death. Yet it was dear to
him; this sad and stately city, Awaiting for

the slow death of an unpitied and hungering
decay.

It was dear to lira from habit, from
birth, from memory, from affinity, as the
reeds of its stay-nant waters were dear to the
sedo^e-warbler that lino; its slender nest on
the stem of a rush. A price was set on his
head ; and never more, he thought, would he
see the sunshine in ripples of gold come over
the grey lagoons.

With an effort lie took up his tale.

We dwelt in Mantua. She was another
man's wife. It is a common story. She
was — nay, I cannot tell you what she was.
Gather a lily in its whiteness and steep it in
the sunset, and you will see something like
her. She was of noble blood ; the people
always called her Donna Aloysia, as though
she were a prince's daughter. She was
poor — every one is poor there — but when
she sat at her barred casement, with her
mandoline leaning idle against her breast,
she was a wife for Gonzaga's self; and
lier lord was an old, wizen, dull, and pitiful
wretch — a judge of one of the petty courts
there. So we loved one another. When
the night fell, I rowed beneath her tower
windows ; if she were alone, there was a

knot of flowers at the bars, and a lamp
behind them ; if all were dark, I stole away
and hid amongst the reeds. So three years
went by — you do not seem to understand !
We were happy ; we would have had nothing
otherwise. All the stillness, and the gloom,
and the hush of the close streets, and the
noiseless pathways of the waters, all seemed
made to make our lives the sweeter and the
closer-knit. You do not seem to understand
you have never loved any one ? '

Only Joconda.'

Joconda ! I speak to you, then, in an
unknown tongue. We were happy. Three
summers went by. One night in August I
rowed under her wall. The lamp was in
the window behind the knot of jessamine
and datura. The cord hung down from
the bars ; I tied my boat, and moored it as
usual. As usual I swung myself up the
rope, and entered her room by loosening one
bar of the grating, which we had filed
through long before. Whenever I shut my
eyes, in thought or sleep, I see the pale,
wide waters, the waving reeds, the white
light of the full moon ; I hear the hooting
of the mosquito-clouds, the lap of the water'
on the wall, the great bells of the city which

tolled Diidni^ht. I smell the scent of the
creamy natural and the jessamine flower as
I brushed them down in my haste and my
joy. They are always with me — always.
When I lie in my grave I think they will
be with me there. The room was light
with the light of the moon. I saw her
lying on the bed asleep — the great old
bed that had once been Isabella teste's,
with its velvet baldacchino and its gilded
angels — but she had no kiss for me, no
look, no murmur of delight. She Alas still,
quite still, and on her breast, inter a cluster
of the datura lilies, there Av^as a deep, dark
gap, and a stream of blood was running slowly
oh, so slowly ! — over the linen on to the
marble floor. For, you see, she was dead.
There was a three-edged dagger on the
couch ; a dagger of mine. I took it up. I
understood. Jealousy had killed her and
had used my weapon ; jealousy has killed
its thousands and its tens of thousands. At
that moment men seized me. I know
nothing more. When 1 came back to any
sight or sense I was in prison, charged with
the assassination of my mistress. Donna
Aloysia Gorgias, wife of Piero di Albany.'
He ceased, and buried his face upon this

hands. Musa listened, her eyes dilated with
wonder, fear, and awe ; her colour changing
with unspoken sympathy, that was at once
too timid and too strong for words.

'Who had killed her?' she asked at
last.

'Her husband. Of that I am as sure
as that the sun hang in the heavens. He
had a double vengeance so. I could but
deny ; I had no proof of innocence. Adultery
with her was proven on me, and he, a
man versed for many years in all the
crafts of law, easily worsted me, delirious
with the misery of her loss as I was then.
Some furious words that I had been overheard
to speak to her at a masked fete a
few nights before, because she smiled more
than I chose upon a youngster, were
brought against me. My family were poor
and proud, and ill-liked in Lombardy. They
condemned me as guilty of her murder, and
sentenced me to the galleys for thirty years.
Thirty years! That is my tale. Well, no
doubt in a way I murdered her, for she was
slaughtered through our love.'

He was silent again ; his head was sunk
- upon his arms ; he had forgotten all except
those nights in Mantua.

She was silent too. She was troubled

by the ghastly story. Passion and death
seemed to pass by her like the scorch of
fire, like the chill of a grave.

Does that old wicked man still live ? '
she asked.

No doubt. He had his vengeance.
After love it is the sweetest thing on earth.
I know not how I came to touch the
dafrs^er, the foul thing, but being? thus
found with it in my hand was proof enough
for the dolts who were my jury. Besides,
old Piero di Albano was a man of weight
in our poor ruined city, and I was an idler
and a titled beggar. So he had his way.
He laid her in her grave with a black
cruel hole in her beautiful breast, and he
sent me out amongst felons, to parch my
life away like a dog chained in the sun,
without a drop of water near, who looks up
at the hot brazen skies till he is mad.
Whilst I was in my cell a written paper,
unsigned, Alas brought to me, which told
me she had been as faithless to me as to
her lord. It might be so ; I know not.
Or it might be but her husband's lie. This
I know — love is a sorcerer's poison. It
burns the brain to ashes, and shrivels the
soul up in its heat, till it is no more than
the' cast coat of the tree-cricket.'

Then Daiiiello Villamao'iia saw this.
boat go out of the lagoon of Orbe-tell
bearing her with it,helooked
after it as long as he could see
its path over the Vater, that was growing
lilac and purple under the after-glow of
the west. Then he retraced his steps slowly
towards the town. The galley-slaves were
still at work ; the labour at the sea-wall was
urgent, and they would be kept at it by
lantern-light. There was a score of them.
They were all there until the State should
have decided whether to send them to inland
or island prisons, or to the mines, or to
public labours on the coast.

Danielloo looked curiously at the one
amidst them to whom she had spoken.

Satuniino Mastarua looked in turn at him,
with a hungry, longing look.

You know her ? ' he muttered, very
low, as the sailor passed him.

Danielloo, eager to catch a hint or a sign,
with his quick, ardent southern mind, murmured
back to him :

What is she to you — tell me ? '

I am her father,' answered the galley-slave
; ' and he bent his shoulders to the
rope-yoke with which lie and five of his
comrades were doing oxen's work in moving
with cords the great blocks of the fresh
stone that was beings fitted into the Pelasgic
wall.

As for the Sicilian, the red sunset skies
and the shallow waters of the lagoon seemed
to circle round him : he felt as if the high
lack rocks of Argeutaro had fallen upon
him.

The men of Sicily in general do not
think a brigand a criminal ; the calling to
them seems a fair and a brave one. To take
to the hills is, in their sight,. natural enough,
and honourable, since it needs a sure eye, a
firm hand, a steady foot, and a bold spirit.
But Danielloo Villamagna came of an old
seafaring stock, who had been always most

loyal and honest mariners. He and his did
not look with the common Sicilian sympathy
on the malandrini. They did not
abhor their crimes, indeed, as northern
nations or people of the cities might do.
They believed a man might be a mountain-robber,
yet have Heaven's grace touch him
all the same. Still, no one of them had
ever had dealings with or friendship for the
brigands that undermine public security allover
Sicily, as the scotus will do the trunk
of a beech-tree ; and to him Saturnino of
Santa Flora was a sinner who merited his
chains

That this great brute, with the dark hair
on his naked breast like a wild beast, and
his cavernous, cruel eyes that glowed like
a wild beast's in the dark, should claim
her, his Musoncella — his scarcely-known,
tenderly-adored, proud, self-willed, silent,
haughty daughter of the moors and sea —
seemed to him so incredible that he leaned
there against the broken wall staring
straight before him, and wondering if he
were awake ; and, if awake, were in his

senses.

The deeds of Saturnino were not of

his generation, but he had heard tell of

them ; they had reached even to his own
Sicilian shores, where the Sicilian mountain
chiefs had been jealous of the Achilles-like
valour, and the countless and ghastly acts,
which had marked the blood-stained rule of
the Maremmano hero.

He knew that Saturnine had made no
more count of the life of a man than a
fisher of those shores made of the life of a
fish. His blood ran cold as he stood therein
the glow from the carmine-coloiu' of the
west. He tried by every method he could
to approach and speak again to the galley-slave,
but in vain. Saturnino was kept at
Avork amidst others, close under the eye of
the overseer. Vigilance was redoubled as
the shadows of evening drew near and the
lamps were lit on the mole.

The men worked there till ten at night,
and then were called off to their prisons,
while the sea grew alive with the boats for
the spearing, and a myriad of little golden
lights sparkled on the water as the fire-flies
do on the land, and the whole seafaring
population of the coast, from ten miles up
and down, strained, and leaped, and cursed,
and laughed, and wrangled, and shouted as
the shoal of fish was murdered.

All the uproar, and the mirth, and the
quarrels, and the triumphs failed to divert
the young skipper from his thoughts. He
pulled out alone to his good brig, and spent
the night on his own deck, astonished and
perplexed.

With morning he tried again to get
an instant's speech with Saturnino.

In vain he spent his day by the sea-wall
watching the labours of the gang. It was
sunset aijain before he could seize a moment
when the overseer was occupied, and
Mastarna had been allowed to pause in Ins
ox-like toil. Then he said quickly, in a
whisper :

Are you truly her father ? '

She has the face of the woman I loved
most ; she has the face of Serapia,' answered
the galley-slave. ' When I was taken first
I gave her to a woman of Santa Tarsilla.
I see she knows nought of me. Last year
she saved and sheltered me ; but then I
scarce looked at her. I was half-drowned,
and mad with hunger. I took the gold
toys out of the place she hid me in. I
would rather she should never know '

Why do you tell me, then ? '

Because, by your eyes as you walked

beside her, I saw that you loved her ; and
for her sake, perhaps, you will free me.'

Free you ! '

Danielloo stared at him in amaze, forgetting
how absolutely the one single longing
to escape filled all the thoughts, and ate up
all the soul, of this mountain-eagle, who was
caged by the hot sea-shore.

The heart of Saturnino had thrilled with
a sudden memory of tenderness as he had
seen the mv\ in whom he had recognised
Serapia's daughter ; but far stronger and
more absorbing in him was his own thirst
for deliverance. It was almost the only
instinct left in him, and the few weeks tithe
had been free on his own hills in the
summer before — all wretched, hungry, filled
with fear, and compelled to concealment,
though they were — had been so sweet to
him, that night and day since he had been
captured afresh he had meditated escape ;
schemed for it, lived for it, scarcely felt the
heat of the sun or the cold of the wind, the
aching of his old wounds or the lash of the
overseer's whip, for thinking every moment
— could he get away ?

lie would have torn himself from his
trap as the eagle docs, leaving its fool

VOL. IF.

wrenched off behind it. The thirst for the
liberty of the hills was Hke a madness on
him.

To his gaolers and his companions in
misery he never spoke. If he could have
slain them all and so escaped, he would
have done it.

She is beautiful and her mother was
noble,' he muttered. 'The woman who
took lier was a good woman. There was
love in your eyes as you looked at her ; one
gives the world for that — I have not forgotten.
Will you help me to get free for
her sake ? '

You would torment her '

No ; I might have called to the gaolers
yesterday, and if I had said to them
"■ yonder child is of my blood," they would
have let me speak to her. But I would not.
I stole her gold toys ; I would rather she

should never know You are a sailor, you

have a ship ; if you can get me away, take
me to Sardinia. There are Mastarna men
there ; kindred of mine. They, too, hive by
the mountains ; they would make me welcome
'

The overseer turned and resumed his
walk near them.

Saturnino lapsed into the sullen silence
he had preserved since his capture.

I will see you again,' murmured the
Sicilian, and for prudence sake he left the
sea-wall and want towards the town to summon
those of his sailors who where drinking
and domino-playing at the wine-houses.

To do what the galley-slave asked him
might be utter ruin and disgrace to him ; it
might cost him his vessel, and his liberty,
and his good name. If he helped the captive
to cheat the law, the law would most likely
find out his complicity and fling him in turn
into its prisons ; and he knew well that
Saturnino Mastarna had been a murderer,
not once, but many times ; that his crimes
against the law were dark and numberless,
that he was still a wild beast ready to tear
even the hand that aided him.

Yet it hurt him to leave the man therein
his hourly torment, in his hopeless misery,
and who could tell, if lie where left thus,
growing more and more brutish and desperate
every day, liow^ he might not in
sheer despair call upon his daughter to
drink his cup of bitterness with him ? Or
if he escaped by himself, might lie not seek
her out and compel lier to shelter him



afresh, and bury her youth for ever underneath
the weight of his own secrecy and
guilt ? If it were possible to rescue liii,
would it not be well done for her sake ?

He was generous, and he took little
thought, and the memory of Musa was with
him, potent and intoxicating as the fumes of
strong wine ; her coldness, her scorn, her
strength enhanced her beauty of person to
him. The dangerous race she sprang from
gave her a mystery and a magic the more.
To the northern mind and worldly knowledge
of Sanctis this lineage had seemed the
most terrible of all inheritance. But to the
Sicilian it made her look the lovelier ; as
Persephone looked to her lover when the
darkness of the shades was about her instead
of the flowering fields.

That in her veins ran the bold, fierce
blood of the Mastarna of the Apennine rocks
was but a reason the more for him to honor to
bear her away on the deck of his own good
brig, and dwell with her under the dark
green orange-groves beside his own blue sea,
and make her the happy mother of dauntless
children who would ride the waves like the
dolphin and nautilus.

este's had been the usual tranquil,
amorous, unoccupied life of young
Italian men in old Italian cities that
are away from the common track of
travel : a life of sleepy calm, of often harmless
dalliance, that usually has its story told from
birth to death within the circle of the old
town walls. Why not ? Men used to be
greater when they lived only on one spot,
and more content. Unhappily, now, the
greatness and the content are gone, because
that which used to be repose too often is
now but apathy, languor, rust.

He had studied under monks in an ecclesiastical
college, ancient and solemn in art
and architecture, where no boy laughed

above his breath, and a Greek chorus was
second to a Latin hymn. There he had
grown up a beautiful, graceful, pensive lad,
in a home straitened by penury and made
austere by devotion, but keeping something
of the stateliness of grander times.

To drop slowly down the wide lagoons

and thread the mazes of the reed thickets was

his chief, often his only, occupation ; to make

his mandoline throb a love-lay under some

old sculptured casement, where some fancy

of the hour was hiding behind a curtain of

frayed velvet or tattered tapestry, was his

sole diversion. There was enough to live

on ; that slender pittance that kept his father

and himself in a corner of the dark old

palace would be enough for him to live on

afterwards. No one spoke to him of action

or of ambition ; they were unknown words

in Mantua; he lived through his years as

idly and as thoughtlessly as any one of the

dragon-flies above the rushes lived out their

summer hour. If he were pensive and

serious, it was only because the spirit of the

place was on him and the sense of narrow

fortunes curbed his youth.

Then, when he was twenty-four, this
passion for an old man's young wife came

on him with force and sorcery, and changed
the whole tenor of this dreaming, sleepy
days. He lived thenceforward only for one
woman, in all the beguiling mystery of a
secret and mutual love.

What he saw now was the beauty of that
dead mistress. There is no coldness so unchanging,
so unyielding, so absolute, as the
coldness of one who loves what is lost.
Actually, he never saw Musa with any
eyes that realised her beauty or her girlhood.


He saw some one who was good to him
in his sickness* and extremity; that was all.
The woman slain in Mantua, with the cruel
hole in her breast and the datura lilies red
with her blood, was for ever between him
and this creature who tended him, fed him,
sheltered him, saved him.

He had passed through one of those
terrible hours in life which even in the most
sensual temperaments burn out for the moment
all fires of sense and quench desire in
horror. He loved with all his force the
woman murdered in Mantua ; and yet he
knew she was dead, dead, dead — a putrid
thing pushed away under the friable, watery
soil. The terror of that, the ghastliness of

IN MAREMMA.

it, the despair of it, froze the blood in his
veins. What was this girl to him ?

No more than the empty lamps of the
tomb whose lights had been out two
thousand years.

daughter

Musical, ill the safe shelter of
lier fiitlier's halls, had never
tended Odysseus with more
serenity and purity than the
of Saturnino tended his fellow-slave.


The sanctity of the tombs lay on them,
the dead were so near ; neither profanity or
passion seemed to have any place here in
this mysterious twilight alive with the
memories of a vanished people. Iter innocence
was a grand and noble thing, like anyone
of the large white lilies that rose up
from the noxious mud of the marshes : a
cup of ivory wet with the dewdrops of
dawn, blossoming fair on fetid waters. And
in him the languor of sickness and of despair

borrowed unconsciously for awhile the liveries
of chastity ; and he spoke no word, he made
no gesture, that would have scared from its
virginal calm the soul of this lonely creature,
who succoured him with so much courage
and so much compassion that they awed him
with the sense of an eternal, infinite, and
overwhelming obligation.

It needs a great nature to bear the weight
of a great gratitude.

To a great nature it gives wings that
bear it up to heaven ; a lower nature feels
it always as a clog that impatiently is dragged
only so long as force compels.

Which nature was Este's he would not
have known himself.

At times, indeed, the weight of his debt
to the fellow-creature who had sheltered
him came upon him with a shock, and
startled him at its vastness. But commonly
he thought no more of it than the cuckoo
thinks of debt to the tree-sparrow in whose
nest he lies so safely whilst April storms
shake off the April blossoms.

All she did for him was done so simply,
so wholly as a matter of course, that no
mute claim on her part, even of look or
gesture, ever recalled to him that she owed

him no more duty than she owed to any
hill-fox or wounded scops who should have
hidden itself in her retreat.

Sometimes he liked to talk to her ; it
took him in a measure out of himself to tell
her those facts or traditions of science or
history which to her seemed like tales of
magic. Sometimes he liked to hear her
sing the mournful sea-songs of the people,
though oftener the sound of the mandoline
hurt him with an intolerable pain, recalling
to him the moonlit nights in Mantua,
when his lyric underneath her walls had
told his love that his boat was there,
casting its shadow on the reedy waters,
white with the shining; of the moonbeams.

But always she was no more to him than
the slave had been to the Lucumo. Her
strength, her courage, her directness of
speech, her power of exertion, all made her
seem to him rather a youth than a girl. He
had loved a woman with soft, idle hands,
and languid, inert limbs, no more capable
of facing the hurricane or steering through
the winter waves than a peacock in his
pomp of purple is capable of breasting the
breeze, or cleaving the breakers, with the
gyps-vulture or the storm-swallow.

He had loved one who was as useless as
the painted butterfly, as lovely and as idle as
the lotus floating on its broad green leaves,
rocked on the rippling water.

This creature, all strength, and daring,
and continual eflbrt, had for the moment, at
least, no woman's charm for him as he saw
her come home from her day's hard labour,
bearing on her shoulders the faggot of sticks,
or the sheave of bracken, and in her hand
the fishing-nets, and the sickle or the hatchet.
So might have looked any maiden of Tempe
or of Corydon ; so might have looked Theocritus'
love when the Sicilian vales Avere
lilac with the meadow mint, and rent by
autumn gales.

As these she had looked to Maurice
Sanctis. But Este, though he knew the
pastoral poets by heart, did not see her
with those eyes. For him her humble daily
cares of him obscured her beauty, as in days
of old it obscured for mortals the divinity of
those gods who came amidst them, and drove
their ploughshares and sat beside their
hearths.

If he had known of Danielloo Yillamagna,
with his face like a Veronese portrait, and
his sinewy elastic frame, and stately yet

supple movements, some pulse of auger
might have quickened in him, and with it
some smart of sudden appreciation.

But she never spoke of the Sicilian sailor ;
some vague instinct locked her lips about
him, though a little while before she had
opened them so carelessly to Maurice Sanctis.
So to Este she remained nothing more thana
dryad of the lonely woods, who scarcely
touched him with any sense of the sea in
her ; a genius alba who ministered to his
dire need and saved him from his hunters,
but who came and went without receiving
one impulse in him to keep her hand in his,
and say to her, ' I am beggared of love :
make me once more rich So nothings
troubled the perilous peace in which she
dwelt ; and the autumn deepened into
winter, and the rainstorms deluged the earth
above, and she was still innocent as Xau-
sicca, he was still sacred to her as Odysseus.

She did not know her own heart.

She did not know why all the ardour of
the Sicilian left her jiard and scornful ; why
all the gentleness of Sanctis lead left her cold
and thankless ; and why one languid smile
from Este's eyes, one listless word from this
mouth, made her grateful and full of joy.

She was drinking at that fatal fountain
which Joconda once had feared that she
would drink so deeply from that she would
drown. But its waters were clear and harmless
at her lips as yet ; she could not tell that
there was poison in them and bitter after-taste.

She did not even know the name of this
fount at which all pilgrims of earth drink
soon or late. She tended him as she had
tended the wounded dotterel from the Polar
seas. She loved him as she had loved
that ; but passion was still dumb and
slumbering in her. Often in youth it lies
and dreams like Endymion, and would never
wake but for the kiss that startles sleep, and
chant-es the dream into desire.

Once awakened, that peaceful rest, careless
on the crushed cowslips, can come back
no more.

So the months went on, and the days
renewed themselves, each like the other ;
filled to her with bodily exertion that
had become delightful because no longer for
her own sake alone, and to him with the
dull, heavy, stupid pain that men of cultured
mind feel when they are barred out
from the world of other men and from the
face of nature.

He told her all he knew of the Etruscan
nation ; all (that all so little) which Pliny
and Dionysius and Filius Italics have told ;
all the old tales that the Etruscans cherished,
and he himself had read in dreamy boyish
days of drowsy Mantuann summers — the old,
old tales of Ulysses and his son ; of the
Dioscuri, whose images were engraved on
the mirror she used ; of Diomedes, snatched
to the gods upon the Adrian isle, and his
companions changed to birds.

He pictured to her the grand and
puissant lucumonies that have perished
so utterly off the face of the earth that
even their records have perished ; he
pictured to her the people driving their
cattle and carrying their corn to the forests
dedicated to Verona, to exchange them
with the Umbras, the Latins, and the
Sabines : the white sacred cattle drawings
the brazen ploughshare through the moist
green soil, to trace the walls of cities to
be ; the long, ]prosperous, ease-loving and
luxurious life that was led through so many
centuries within those cities' walls when
raised, doomed to succumb and change and
die out, little by little, when the tramp and
the clang of the Legions came over the

mountains, and the greed of consul and of
emperor robbed the land of her marbles of
Luini, of her temple-columns, of her bronze
and her gold work, of her delicate potteries,
of her colossal statues.

The brother of Fabius Maximus, with
his slave, disguised as shepherds of Gaul,
with javelins and sickles, wending their
perilous way through the darkness of the
dreaded Ciminian woods, and descending to
the rich plains and the stately cities to propose
the admittance of that mission from
Eome which was ultimately to be the curse
of Etruria ; the augurs tracing with their
wand the lines of separation on the heavens,
watching the flight of herons, of storks, of
crows, to gather the secrets of the future,
taking warning or counsel from the play of
lightning on the heads of the spears, worshipping
with blood-sacrifice Jupiter Delicious
amidst the thunders of the storm ; the fifty-dared
armed galleys going out from the sunny
crowded ports, some up the tawny Tiber,
some away to Spina for the tin and amber
come overland from the far Scandinavian
waters, some by the ^gean coasts to the gorgeous
and languid lands of the East, where
the Tyrrhene mariners were welcomed as

brethren and sons ; the sunlit towns now
level with the dust, then strong with colossal
bastions and ramparts, graceful with temples
and with statues, stately with religious feasts
and princely banquets ; the son of Asserting
sail with his famished Lydian from
Smyrna ; the Tyrrhene pirates capturing
Dionysus, and changed for their sin into
water-spouting dolphins ; the Persian faith
brought with the Persian eagles to the Ita-lite
soil ; the great Etruscan confederations
gathering in harmony at the temple of
Columna ; the oxen drawing the fair
Carrara marbles into the port of Luna, to
make the altars of the beloved orchard-exod,
or the likeness of the divine Cytharoedus —
all these things he set before her in
vivid language, and as she followed his
words she sav all that they portrayed ;
she heard the brazen bray of the Lydian
trumpets, she saw the purple glow of the
Lydian robes ; when she went down to
the edge of the sea, she thought of
the Navigium of Isis, as the people had
gathered for it on those very shores with
their torches flaming against the dafibJil
light of a March morning ; when she
collected the broken boughs oi the sea-vol.

II. p

pines for fuel, she thought of the tree laid
low in symbol of lost Attis, and borne
garlanded with flowers to the shrine of
the Mighty Mother.

And when he told her that all this
Etruscan and Latin life had been lived
long ere the Galilean gathered his disciples
from the fishers of the lake side ; and that
before this yet again, in long ages ere
the Italiote or the Tyrrhene had turned
a sod of the soil of Maremma, all these
green, wet, shining woodlands and red
blossoming garlands had been the haunt
of the meridional elephant, of the armoured
rhinoceros, of the terrible machairodus, of
the huge hippopotamus, and, later than
that, of the mammoth and the lion and the
bear coming down over the Alps as the
Goths did after them — then her eager
imagination, starved so long, fed itself on
all these wonders with entranced delight,
and he who told her of them seemed to hera
magician as marvellous in power as the
Etruscan auspices had seemed to the Etruscan
slave.

Of all the tales what fascinated her
the most were those of that prehistoric time
when all the Tuscan valleys and plains had

been forest and marsh, and grass and water,
and the vast quadrupeds had moved with
massive measure through the woods that no
axe touched, in the twilight that no hearth
fires lit, in the green virgin wastes that
had no sound but the tread of their mighty
feet, the trumpet of their solemn voices ; and
man, when he did at length come amidst
them, had been a small, and timid, and puny-creature,
glad to profit by the branches the
elephants broke down, grateful to follow the
course of the hippopotamus along the shores
of the brimming rivers, meekly and humbly
culling the fruits the great lords of the soil
did not need. She wished that she had
lived then to have been friends with the
huge leaf-eating beasts. She sorrowed for
them, driven away little by little off the
soil they reigned over as man multiplied
and climate changed, until at the last they
perished utterly, as ages after them the
Etruscan people did in turn.

He told her all these stories, that are
written in fragments in ivory letters on the
heart of the earth, when he was in the
mood to speak in the long evenings that
now approached as the winds drove the
Fast leaves from the maple and ash, and

p 2

the dyer-oaks and the downy-oaks grew
yellow.

His shallow studies were enough to seem
to her ignorance a very ocean of knowledge,
in whose depths were wondrous pearls.

When he spoke to her of all these
unknown things, her mind, by nature eager,
poetic, and aspiring, followed his with
breathless attention and delight.

As she watched her round loaves bake in
the warm embers, she hearkened to these
stories of lands and peoples that she had
never heard of ; Herodotus and Pliny yielded
what to her were tales of absolute truth, and
her grave and brooding fancy, starved so long,
spread with rapture over these new fields
of thought, glad as any bird looked from
a narrow cage. They were all as real and
beautiful to her as they were to the Etruscan
sacrificing to his garden god in the red and
gold of his autumn orchards, or to the
Latin beseeching the smile of the goddess of
the myrtle bough alike upon his vineyards
and upon his nuptial Jos's.

They sat together in the chamber of the
Lucumo, the oil burning in the bronze
lamps, the wood fire upon the stones, while
she wove the basket osiers or spun the

hemp ; and it beguiled the time to him to
recall the narratives that he had read in his
college books, and after college in other books
that his ecclesiastical masters called heretical
and damnable, since they treated of geology
and science.

Time was long and dull ; he could
hardly keep so much count of it as the
Etruscans had kept of the years that they
marked by nails in their temples.

The hours were all so precisely similar, so
uneventful; so like was the night to the day,
here, where he never saw the sun itself, but
only some stray thread of it which came down
through the briony and bindweed, some faint
reflection of it which shone through the open
doorway of the entrance-cell, that all the
weeks became confused in his mind into one
blurred, grey, colourless mass of time that
might have been a century, so long it
seemed. He used to think that he would
remain here till he became like Carolus
Magnus in the depths of the Unterberg,
with grey beard grown downward to the
stones, and the ages rolling on without
awaking him.

His life seemed to him broken in his
hands ; like a plume of golden-rod or red

amaranth snapped off in its full flower
and left to wither. To venture forth into
the light and air was almost certainly to
return to the . galleys ; to stay on here,
though life itself was kept up in him, was to
die in all save the actual rotting of the body.

Musa to him was only like a brave boy
who had rescued him ; he did not feel to
her more than the Lucumo (once prince
here) might have felt to the faithful slave
whose ashes he had placed between his own
bones and his dog's. She was perforce out
all the day, getting him such food as she
could, or such work as she could glean from
the moors ; cutting the distaff canes to make
them into bundles, seeking for edible roots,
bringing in wood blown down in the autumn
winds, or the dry brake to make a couch
for herself, netting or swearing fish for his
evening meal, searching for and gathering
those medicinal herbs which she relied on as
the chief means of making money enough to
buy quinine and wine. Unless she went out
he must starve, and so perforce she left him
in these dark and stormy autumn days alone
with his passionate regrets, his almost sullen
despair.

If he could but have gone with her

and laboured beside her, lie would have
retrained strength and tone.

The cumulus clouds hurrying in vast
masses before the west wind ; the often
angry sea lashed by the north blasts into a
smoking field of foam and mist in which
the barques were lost as caravans of the
desert are lost in the simoom ; the beauty
of the green, wet, shining earth, with
pool and estuary brimming from the
copious rains, and thronged with the flocks
of arctic birds ; the glory of shadow
and colour, and sunbeams glowing through
the steam of rain, and dark hillsides swept
by the mists and echoing back the thunder, —
all these, which to her were so beautiful,
might have taken some hold also upon his
mind and freed him from the brooding
dread and desire which consumed him like a
disease of vital parts.

But the outer air could never touch
him save at rare short times when, fearfully,
he stole to the entrance and looked up at
the brambles and brandies crossiiifj one
another, and envied the brown wings of the
pilgrim-falcon wheeling against the wind, the
silver-grey triangle of the storks traveling
across the sky.

Air is the king of physicians ; he who
stands often with nothing? between him and
the open heavens will gain from them health
both moral and physical. But he could not
do this, and there was nothing to arouse
him from the morbid dejection into which he
fell with scarce an effort. The struorale had
been too long for him, and these tombs at
their best were but a naked prison.

Walls hung with storied tapestries,
couches rich with old embroideries, a
woman's ringed hand amongst his curls, a
mellow warmth scented with the orange-flower
and the carnation blooming in gardens
green and old, love murmurs, low
laughter, pensive fancies, ' sad only for
wantonness,' — these were what suited him,
as they suit the soft Italian night.

She was, meanwhile, still always troubled
more or less by what is called a vulgar care ;
she found it difficult to get such food as this
man, still weak and weary, could be induced
to eat. The bread she made from her
summer-garnered store of wild oats was
hard and indifferent ; there was no longer
Zefferino to bring any change of diet in
ewes' milk or maize flour for polenta ; the
crust with spring water and wild berries.

which lead been enough for lier strong
health and unpaniperecl appetite, were nothing
to tempt the nausea and the languor of
a still feeble convalescent. She knew how
to do what Joconda had done. If she lead
had them, she could have prepared the
goat's ham, the curd cheese, the broth
with wine in it of savoury herbs, but except
the herbs she had none of the materials
needful for these things ; and even forsake
of Este she could not brings herself

CD

to snare the birds, her dear friends, her
cherished playmates, beloved by her before
she had seen his face.

This life of the wild moorlands and
woodlands had been all-sufficient for her in
her simple needs, but the more complicated
wants of a man once used to gentle life,
and now worn with long languor and weakness,
found it utterly barren and empty.

It was a blessing to her that it Alas
autumn, that many a rough fruit and edible
fungus could be gathered off the moors,
and that the teeming sea was still so near
that she could draw from it fish succulent
and various. Still, food was liard to obtain,
and obtained hardly by the sheer strength
of her arm and sureness of her eye ; and

when afar off on the sky4ine she saw the great
corn-warns passing black against the sun,
laden with the wheat that in all time has
made Maremma the granary of Eome, she
looked at them with longing Imngry eyes, asher
father had looked from his lair upon the
rich men traversing the vale below.

True, she did not know that there were
such things as riches anywhere ; the life of
wealth, of luxury, was invisible to her ;
every one around her lived on roughly-made
polenta, a sea or a fresh water fish, a mussel,
or an onion. This was all they tasted for
relish or for rarity. All the opulence and
ease of the world were hidden from her by
the stretching sea, the solitude of the moors,
the noxious and uninhabitable marsh.
But she knew that there was a region where
all the grain went, all the cut grass, the
burned wood, the felled pines ; a fairer,
happier region, which rejoiced in all that
left Maremma poor, and where sickness was
not in the soil, nor fever always in the
sunbeams.

Those immense plains which the men
from the mountains ploughed and sowed in
autumn, in summer were golden oceans of
grain, reaped ere midsummer was passed.

And not a bearded head of it-all could she
have ! The rebellion that had been the
passion of her father's life rose up in her — the
reasoning rebellion of those who only
know that they have nothing.

Had not her honesty been natural to
her as her courage, and braced by the
Piedmontese woman's stern repeated lessons,
it would have broken down now under her
longing to serve this man, and her wondering
rage at the inequalities of fate.

These might fetch money,' Este said
once to her, taking up :i fibula of gold and a
necklace of amber which had escaped the
ravenous greed of Saturnino.

They are theirs' she said quickly and
sternly, and took them out of his hand and
laid them down reverently.

He smiled faintly.

Oh, do not think I would rob you like
Saturnino. But these things belong to you
by right of discovery, and they are no good
to the dead.'

She shook her head.

That may be. But I would sooner
seize some one by the throat and rifle his
pockets than I would rob those who sleep
and are silent.'

I cannot quarrel with you for that,'
said Este. ' Theodoric was less scrupulous
than you. He ordered the plunder of the
graves, and the moderns followed him.'

Who was Theodoric ? '

'Never mind ; I like your instinct
better than his greed. It is a right one.
Tlicy give to the galleys a poor wretch who
opens a tomb made yesterday to seek for
treasure ; and the nobles and the students
who plunder the Etruscans and carry their
toys of death off into cabinets and glass
cases are applauded. Life is very unjust ;
most crimes are sanctioned in some form or
another when they take grand names.'

I could not steal from them, even for
you,' she answered him, without noticing his
subtler argument.

Even for Inn she would not have
touched those golden Jibulce, those golden
grasshoppers, that the dead had carried with
them to the earth and trusted to it as the
wild partridge trusts her nest.

Even when she used the vessels of
bronze and pottery, and looked at her own
face in the steel mirror of the Tyndarids,
she was afraid she did an irreligious thing,
an ungenerous thing, since the dead could

not avenge an insult. Though these tombs
had been heaped with gold, the child of
Saturnino would have touched none of it.

Having nothing else of her own, she
gave Este the uttermost of her strength and
]patience ; she laboured late and early, she
hunted for edible fungi, she netted fish — a
cruelty she loathed— she worked hard at the
rush-plaiting and the spinning to have something
to take in to Telamone or Orbetello
with which to purchase the wine he needed.
She raked up the pine-cones, she cut the
ling and broom ; she carried in the dry
wood she collected from under the trees ;
she kept the sepulchres as clean and sweet
as any sea-shell with the cleanly ways that
Joconda had made a second nature to her
in her childhood. She worked arduously and
willingly in all ways, and this very devotion
to him obscured lier beauty to him ; sometimes
he was ingrate enough to murmur
angrily because she left him so much alone.

She was only his servant to him ; he
did not see his ministering angel in her. He
did not see that glory as of a young goddess
which was about her buoyant feet and her
close-curled head for the eyes of Maurice
Sanctis and of the Sicilian mariner.

To them she was so proud ; to him she
was so humble.

When he threw her a soft word or two
of thanks, she was repaid a thousandfold ;
when at nightfall she sat at her spinning,
and he told her old-world stories of all that
Maremma has seen since the mammoth
pulled down the foliage of its sculls-oaks,
she was so happy that her thoughts never
travelled past that glad immediate hour.

She knew nothing of her own danger.

The only fear that ever quickened her
pulse was when in the hush of night she
heard the call of the bittern booming over
the marshes, or the loud rush of the wild
duck's wings through the air, and trembled
lest the sound should be the coming of
armed men to break into her sanctuary.

Now and then a quiver of sharper alarm
ran through them both, when she saw any
figure of shepherd or hunter on the horizon,
when the mounted butter o crashed through
the thickets chasing a brood-mare or a bull-buffalo,
when the shots sounded from the
marshes or the estuaries, or the boar with
the hounds on his flanks burst through the
evergreen brakes.

But these alarms were few and far between.

Maremma is wide, and the tombs of
the Lucumo were fenced about with many
prickly outworks of all the roscius tribe, and
the holy-thorn, and the box-holly, which
horses could not face and that hunters had to
hack with their knives. Usually the days were
perfectly still, with no sound in them save
such as the birds made, or the foals as they
wdiinnied and capered, or the wild hogs as
they grunted for joy over a new fall of
acorns.

She saw moreover, at last, the colour of
health returning to Este's face, and strength
to his listless limbs ; the potent medicine
of the Orbetellano leech began to restore
the tone and the nerve to a constitution
naturally good, though never vigorous. His
physical beauty grew with each week that
his lost health and force came in some
degree back to him. His eyes ceased
to have beneath them the dark sunken
circles of weakness and pain ; his skin
had the delicate brown of his youth in lieu
of the pallor that had been like the hue
of worn ivory ; his limbs lost their emaciation,
and regained their symmetry of proportion
and ease of movement. When he
stood at nightfall for a few wary moments

at the entrance of the tombs, to draw a few
timid breaths of air, and the white light of
the moon fell full upon his upraised face,
it was beautiful as the Vatican Hermes' is,
as some human faces are here still in this
land of the Apollo and the Antinous.

They were both in their youth ; they
had each that physical beauty which is still,
despite all the efforts of the soul and mind,
the one sure sorcery that earth still knows.
They were together in the solitudes of the
marshes and forests, in the gloom under the
myrtle and the heath ; but they had never as
yet touched each other's lips, or found their
solace on each other's breast.

Of love she knew nothing, even while
she loved unconsciously ; and he, for awhile,
still only saw the dead face of his mistress
lying in the pale lamp-light under the
great golden canopy of the Gonzaga's
bed.

While it is winter the porphyries sails
down the willowy streams beside the sultan-hen
that is to be his love, and sees her not,
and stays not her ]passage upon the water or
through the air ; she does not live as yet to
him. But when the breath of the spring
bring's the catkins from the willows, and

the violets amidst the wood-moss on the
banks, then he awakes and beholds her ; and
then the stream reflects but her shape for
him, and the rushes are full of the melody
of his love-call. It was still winter with
Este — a bitter winter of discontent ; and he
had no eyes for this water-bird that swam
with him through the icy current of his adversity.


To break the frozen flood that imprisoned
him was his only thought.

Had he been asked he would have
answered that his heart was dead, like
last year's violets, and his passions with it.

If only you could come out with me ! '
she said often with a sigh to him, since to
her greatest and most cruel of all losses was
it to be debarred the feel of the wind as it
blew, the sight' of the cloud-shadows as they
sailed over the moors and meadows.

Never more shall I see the sun and
smell the heather,' he said wearily. ' It is
hardly worth while to live on — thus.'

Yet it was not the heather and the sun
that he missed the most, or would the first
have sought. His heaven had not lain, like
hers, in the sense of the broad sky, in the
feel of the elastic grass, in the simple joys of

VOL. II. Q

motion and vision and the gladness of
bright weather. What he Agonised for were
amorous secrecy, forbidden delights, the
silent ways of an old city that he knew,
the warm loveliness of a woman who had
leaned from her casement to draw him the
sooner upward to her arms.

Nature was nothing to him — to him said
nothing. What he longed for with intolerable
weariness was once more himself to
live. At his age men cling to life tenaciously,
and death appals at all ages the
Latin temperament. Yet even he at times
felt tempted to make an end of this dull,
torpid, aimless existence, maintained at such
difficulty and in such hardship : the life of a
hawk, half-starved, in an iron cage. Often
when she was away he looked at the keen-edged
dagger, or thought of the deep
pools of this wilderness, where none but
the moriens and mallards would see a
human life come to its last rest amidst the
reeds.

But he was young, and so against all
reason hope remained with him, and made
endurance possible.

It was November weather ; brilliant and
luminous, with noons warm as summer, and

gorgeous sunsets, and cold misty dawns that
heralded bright days.

The woods were in all their pomp ; the
poplars yellow as guinea-gold ; the ashes,
in their wondrous mingling; of fawn-colour
and purple and brown and crimson, the
most glorious of all autumn foliage ; the
oaks resisted change sternly for awhile, and
then transformed themselves suddenly into
masses of amber and of bronze ; the bays
were black with fruit ; the pines knobbed
with ripe cones ; the maple was a glow of
scarlet ; the osmunda and the hart's-tongue
were like teat flames of fire, on the ground.

The huge white clouds that wise men
call cirri-cumuli swept grandly over the
blue sky, and gathered in masses westward
as the sun went down. The air was
strong and full of exhilaration ; the pungent
odours of the wood-smoke rolled
down the mountain sides. Last of all the
flowers, the pretty canary-coloured dragon's-mouth
was in blossom in all green places.
It was a season in which, despite the added
perils that came with it, only to breathe and
move seemed joy enough to Musa ; the earth
and air around her were so gorgeous, so
clear, so radiant, so healthful.

u 2

NE day she went out fishing as
soon as the mountains grew red
with the uprising of the sun.
When she came ashore the morning
was still young ; the water had been very
cold, the air was stormy with a west wind,
far away where Sardinia lay unseen in the
south, mists were hurrying up in great
armies ; here the sun still shone, and the
dazzle of golden light and the play of deep
blue shadows cast from the wind-tossed clouds
were very beautiful upon land and sea.
The Sasso Scritto was all purple
green with the flowering rosemary
covered its marble-veined sandstone ;
rock-pigeons were wheeling and

and

that

the

meetmi]^

above it and across it, foreseeing a change in

the sunshiny weather ; some kittiwakes had
arrived and were floating away to the
estuary ; a Dutch dogger with square sail
was passing in the distance, and a little
fleet of feluccas, graceful as the kittiwakes,
was running merrily under the west wind
towards the Cape of Trojan.

Musa, in haste to return, put the rope of
her boat over her shoulders and began to
pull it over the sand to that hole in the
rocks where she was wont to hide it. As
she bent her head and shoulders forward to
make the first effort at hauling it from the
fringe of the waves, she heard the sound of
oars in the water behind her. Always
afraid of being watched, and above all
afraid when she had her boat, lest any should
see and steal it as soon as her back was
turned, she let the rope fall from her
shoulders and looked towards the sea.

In another moment, another boat's keel
ground upon the sand and stones, and from
it Maurice Sanctis leaped, and stood before
her amongst the southernwood and search.
For a moment they were both mute ;
he from hesitation, she from fear and anger
commingled. By the Sasso Scritto no human
foot but her own fell on that solitary shore

from one year to another. It was a bad
place for landing, and its ill-repute for this
amongst the fishermen had long kept it
untroubled for her and the blue-rocks and
the rock-martins.

She had never dreaded disturbance
there. She stood with wide-opened angry
eyes staring on him, the rope slipping
through her hand, the sea water running
from her kilted skirt and shining feet, the
west wind blowing the dusky gold of her
curls, her cheeks warm with exertion and
the cold sea air till they glowed like the
damask of the autumn rose.

'- Why did you come back r ' she said,
with a sombre wrath in her voice. ' I told
you to go away ; I told you to stay away.'

I could not obey you,' said Sanctis
gently. ' I have been away five months and
more. I strove against the wish to return,
since I knew that I should be unwelcome to
you. But at last, the thought of you all
alone now that winter is so nigh overcame
my resolution. I could not stay on in ease
and mirth and luxury in Paris and think of
you in the wild weather dependent on
chance for bread.'

He looked at her wistfully. She seemed

to him more lovely than before, and more
than ever sternly and fiercely hostile to him.

In truth she was not thinking of him at
all, except in the sense of a fresh and
terrible danger. How could she keep him
out of the tombs ? How could she prevent
his finding Este there ? It was of that
alone she was thinking as she continued to
gaze at him, her eyes full of anger and
alarm.

Do not look at me with so much fear
and hatred,' he said patiently. ' I can wish
you nothing but good. There is the
memory of Joconda between us. Can it not
be in some little measure a peace-maker? '

Her eyes softened at the name he
invoked, but she was too deeply disturbed
for her to be won over by his words.

I do not know wliy you should trouble
yourself as to me,' she said sullenly — sullen -
ness that was the outcome of extreme
dread. ' I told you in the summer-time I
have all I want. I am happy. ]3ut I do
not like to be hunted like this. Go back to
your own country, and leave me alone in
mine.'

You are alone still ? ' he asked : he was

thinking of the Sicilian sailor.

Her face grew troubled and the rose of
her cheeks spread over her brow and throat.
She had never hed in her life. She must
needs he now. It was the shame of that
which made her bkish so hotly ; but Sanctis
only saw in the sudden flush of colour an
answer to his question made in such wise
that there was nothing else left to learn.
Yet he could not repress an impatient word.

It is the Sicilian ? ' he said quickly.

She laughed angrily.

You remember the Sicilian ? No ; he is
gone as he came. I tell you I want no one.
If I did, what would that be to you ? I do
not know why you torment me. I loved
Joconda, but, I told you before, you have
nothing of her. You are rich and she was
poor ; your people forgot her all her lifelong,
and I do not see why you should think
of her now. As for me, I am well and I
need nothing ; but do not hunt me — it
makes me wicked.'

I do not hunt you,' said Sanctis, distressed
and perplexed. ' Why should you
think of such a thing? I would be your
friend if you would let me, and I cannot
understand why I should seem to you an
enemy. It is impossible that I can be that.

You are set against me, but that is no fault
of mine. I have met you by mere accident.
I came here to go over the moors to your
sepulchre. I intended nothing but what was
open and simple. I landed at Orbetello this

mornmg-

The colour faded as quickly out of her
face as it had come there. A great dread
froze her very heart. How could she keep
him from the tombs ? His patient gentleness
with his unchanging resolve alarmed
her much more than any fiery menaces
or reproaches of Danielloo Villamagna's
would have done. It gave her the impression
of being something she could neither
bend nor break. This northern persistence
gave her the sense of being meshed in by it
as the fish were in the web of the nets.

She did not know what to say to him,
nor how to rid herself of his importunity.

You see I do not want for anything,'
she said at last. ' You see I am strong and
well. Go back to your own land and leave
me in mine. I told you in the summer you
cannot drive a grey-lag goose by force to the
poultry byre.'

Will you not let me come with you ? '

No ; if the people, any one of them, see

you here again they will talk of me and find
out where I dwell. I told you so in the
summer. You are a stranger, you are a
signore ; it looks odd to see you here.'

I will come to you there '

Her heart beat loud ; a great terror
which she concealed was upon her.

It will be ungenerous if you do,' she
said coldly. ' I should never have been
found by you if Zirlo had not betrayed me.
Do not be as mean as he. When I see
where a moorhen has made her nest, I never
go near ; I will even walk miles out of the
way sooner than disturb her. Why do you
not feel that for me ? '

Is it a nest that you have made there ? '
said Sanctis with an irritation that he would
have been ill able to explain to himself.
You were all alone with your dead in the
summer.'

'The dead are better friends than the
living.'

You escape my question.'

I do not see why you should question
me. Let me go ; that is all I wish to do.'

You are free to go, of course. But if
you forbid me to follow you, will you meet
me here once at the least ? '

Wheat can you have to say ? If it be
what you said iu the summer, you know
that it is of no use to say it all again. I
shall not come.'

Let me put your boat up for you at the
least,' said Sanctis, controlling whatever
impatience he felt and having fliith that
patience soon or late prevailed with all
women. ' Your shore folks must be very
honest people that they have never stolen it
from you.'

It is not because they are honest, but
because they are afraid of the Sasso Scritto.
It lias a bad name. There are sunken rocks
and quaking sands about it. I know
where they are, but they are always
dangerous.'

As she spoke, she drew the rope over
her shoulders and began to pull lier boat
upward.

Seeing that she was obdurate, Sanctis
went behind the boat and pushed it and
lifted it through the stones and the sand and
the sea-grasses that choked the way.

I have put it up every day that I
have used it without help,' said ]\[iisa,
angrily.

But he did not desist, and with the aid

of his strength the little skiff was soon safe
beyond the water-mark of the rocks in a
cleft that glittered with marbles golden and
white, and gleams of porphyry and agate.

Then she took out of it the little fish she
had captured, and turned her head to
Sanctis.

If really you do not hunt me, do not
come with me. If you try to follow me I
will run ; you know I am swifter than you.
I can go as fast as the bunting when I
choose.'

Will you meet me here once for
Joconda's sake ? — I will not ask you for
myself.'

Very well,' she said reluctantly. ' It is
folly. But I will come if nothing else will
content you. I will be here tomorrow at
this hour.'

Not this evening ? '

JSTo ; tomorrow. Keep your word, and
do not follow me. It makes me feel as the
buck feels when the dogs are after him. I
am very sorry that you have come from
your own country, for it is loss of time, and
to you I seem thankless and rude, no doubt.
Look up yonder at those rock-martins.
What is the best thing you can do for them ?

It is to leave them alone. I am like them ;
I have my house in the rocks. 1 do not
want to go away to other air as the nightingales
go and the lords.'

'But in those sepulchres, under the
earth '

The kingfisher's house is under the
earth, and he would not thank you to
pull him out of it. I will come here tomorrow
— for Joconda's sake. Farewell
to-day.'

With the little glittering fish in her hand,
and the sea-wet wool of her clothes clinjzinfi
to her limbs, she turned away and began to
climb the face of the cliff as rapidly and as
easily as a woodpecker climbs a tree.

She went so quickly and with such sure
feet that the bluish-grey of her kirtle was
soon lost amongst the blue and green of the
rosemary. The sun-rays and the shadows
played about her head, and the rock-doves
who knew her so well flew in circles round
her path ; soon she had climbed to where
the little rain clouds floated across the upper
portion of the cliff, and there the vapour of
them took her to itself as if she were indeed
the goddess of the golden bow and hidden
in a cloud.

Sanctis stood baffled and troubled, looking
up at the face of the cliff and watching
the blue-rocks whirling under the shadows
and the martins swaying under the force of
the wind as they flew. He could not tell
what to think. An irresistible desire to try
once more to persuade her, to see once more
this sad sunlit land she loved, had driven
him here on an impulse altogether against
his judgment. A vague jealousy stirred in
him, thinking of that hot blush that had come
upon her face. Had any found the mystical
secret of influence that escaped himself P
Had any more akin to her learned the way
to tame and move her ? It did not seem
possible ; she was still so bold, so dauntless,
so grave, so innocent. Surely Love had not
passed by there ?

His heart set itself on winning this
halcyon from its subterranean home ; on
bringing this flame-winged flamingo from the
loneliness of the marsh and the estuary into
the world of men.

It was no wise wish, nor was it one easy
of fulfilment, but in its very unwisdom and
difficulty it dominated him with the same
persistence of possession as that with which
the desire of her beauty haunted the Cilicia

mariner. He did not try to follow her ; she
had touched his pride when she had called
the attempt ungenerous. But he stood
motionless, and followed her in thought over
the head of the cliff and along that green
winter country which stretched between the
shore and the tomb of the Lucumo.

Sudden splashes of white rain and the
breaking of the clouds massed southward
into storm aroused him. Under the heavy
downpour from the skies and against the
Avind he made his tedious way back to
desolate Telamone.

Musa ran home as fast as the little felucca
rivet was scudding before the wind to the
Trojan cape. Este was looking impatiently
upward through the shrubs that screened the
entrance.

How long you have been,' he said, with
a little accent of reproach that was almost
querulous.

'I will make haste now,' she said hmnbl}^
and, without waiting to change her skirt, still
heavy with sea and rain water, she began at
once to light a charcoal hire in the bronze
vessel which served her for that purpose.

I wish you had not to be so constantly
away,' said Este, as he watched her at her

work. 'It is very lonely here. There is
not even a dog.'

What can I do ? ' she answered him.
'You must have food, so must I. It does
not grow on these rocks.'

I know, I know ! And I am so useless
! '

She was silent as she fanned the charcoal
with her breath. She was wondering
whether she had better tell him of the new
danger to him that might arise if Maurice
Sanctis should come thither.

But silence was so habitual with her that
she doubted the wisdom of any departure
from it. Of what use to torment him with
a new dread? She trusted to her own
powers of repelling her undesired friend in
so resolute a manner that Sanctis would
abandon his attempts to force his companionship
and assistance on her. She knew that
he would not come there all that day ;
amidst her suspicion of him as so unlike
anything she had ever known, her instinct
made her unconsciously do justice to the
loyalty of his nature.

What is a place they call Paris ? ' she
said suddenly to Este, as she watched his
fish roast in the heat from the charcoal.

It is a great French city,' Este answered
her. 'I was never there. It is all light
and noise and mirth, they say ; it is carnival
with them all the year round. They are
very great in comedy and spectacle ; they
are half Greek and half Harlequin. What
made you think of Paris? I would sooner
you saw Mantua, with its water-meadows and
its long lines of reeds, and its dying frescoes,
and all the ghosts of the Gonzaga. What
could make you think of Paris? The seagulls
could not talk to you of it.'

I met a stranger on the shore ; he said
he was of Paris.'

A stranger ? A young man ? '

He is not old.'

Have you seen him before ? '

Yes — in the summer ; before you came
here. Then he went away, and now he is
here again ; and you will be very careful,
because in the summer he made paintings of
these tombs, and it may be that he will come
back to do the same.'

Then she took the fish from the embers,
and served them With a tempting grace upon
some jxreen leaves on one of the red and
black dishes of the Etruscan ware. She
took none of them herself; lie ate her

VOL. IT. R

rough oaten bread with good appetite,
whilst she gave a roll of wh eaten flour to
Este and a draught of wine in the ivory
syphon.

I thought you always hid yourself from
all eyes,' said Este with some anger, as he
looked suddenly at her, ' You must have
stayed to converse with this man since you
know whence he came.'

I had talked to him in the summer-time.
He means no harm ; only he must not see
you, though I do not think he would speak
and tell of you ; do not come so near the
entrance as you were to-day.'

Este was silent. A new sense stirred in
him that was almost a jealous anger. When
she was away all through the long hours he
had never thought of her as seeing or being;
seen by any human creature ; he knew she
hid herself from the shepherd, from the
hunter, fi'om the cattle-keeper, from the
charcoal-burner, and he had thought these
were the only men that ever passed over the
moors or came down to the marshes, and
that these were scattered and met with but
rarely. All in a moment, as he heard her
speak of meeting a stranger on the shore, he
became suddenly alive to that great personal

beauty in her wliicli his mind had languidly
acknowledged but this pulse had never
quickened to before.

This stranger had been here in the
summer and had come again !

All at once he realised that here, growing
unnoticed by him in the twilight in the
heart of the rocks, was a wild flower that
men of science would envy him ; an orchid of
the swamps, an amaryllis of the woods, that
they would covet for hothouse and hortus
siccus in the cities of the world.

Why do you go out so long and so
often ? ' he said angrily. ' You are too
young, you are too handsome ; you cannot
wander as the hare does and the polecat
from morn to eve.'

She laughed a little.

I must, or what food should we have ?
The danger is not for me ; it is for you. If
any one come down into these tombs you
must hide yourself, and you are not careful
enough when I am away.'

'Stay, then. Do not iro. We can live
on bread.'

I can. You cannot.'

I would sooner die of lumber than that
you should meet with other men and talk

K 2

with them, and let them see the glory of
your eyes.'

He spoke rather with petulance than
with passion. Musa coloured a little.

I did not suppose you cared,' she said,
and then was silent, not understanding
entirely why he was displeased and why his
displeasure gave her joy.

Of course I care ! You are all I have ! '
he said impetuously, and then paused. He
Alas not sure that he did care ; only he was
sure that he did not choose for men from the
North to meet her on the shore and tell her
stories of Paris.

Musa put down some of her bread uneaten,
and rose and went towards the stone
chamber where Joconda's coffin was, and
where he would no more have dared to enter
than he would have dared to draw a knife
across her throat as Saturnino once had
bidden him do if she were troublesome or
squeamish.

I must change my clothes,' she said to
him as she moved away. 'It rained very
hard as I came back ; and the rain gives
ague, they say, though never yet has it
hurt me.'

Stay ! have my words frightened you ? '

No. Why should they ? '

Then you care nothing for me ! '

I think you talk idly.'

She spoke gravely, with the shadow of
some reproach for the first time upon her
face.

Oh, you care — as saints care for sinners,
as wood nymphs cared for mortals ! What
is that ? '

She might have said to him 'it is your
life at least ; ' but she answered nothing.
She took her hand from the hold of his
fingers, and alike without haste and without
hesitation passed into the chamber where the
dead body of Joconda still gave her its
defence, as the sense of holiness in a consecrated
place protects the jewels and the
silver of an altar from bold hands and
covetous eyes.

;LL that day they spoke little to

each other. At daybreak she

rose to keep her tryst by the

Sasso Scritto. When she crossed

the entrance-place Este stood before the

stairs.

You go to meet that northern stranger? '
he asked.

She looked him straight in the eyes.
Yes; if I do not go, he will come here.'

Let him come. You shall not stir
from here.'

For a moment her eyes flashed fire.
You could not prevent me if I put out my
strength,' she said quietly. ' I promised to
see him there to prevent him from coming
here. If I do not go, I tell you he will

come ; he will feel that I have not kept
faith with him.'

1 wish that he should feel that. If you
do so, I will go over to OrlDetello and give
myself up to the law.'

That is madness.'

I swear that I will surrender myself if
you meet this man.'

He spoke now with both a petulance and
a passion that carried truth with them. For
the moment he meant what he said ; for
the moment nothing on earth seemed of
any import to him except to keep her
there.

Lie grew pale, and her dauntless temper
did not rise in revolt.

You will make me break my word ! '
she said, with a wistfulness of appeal in her
voice.

Yes ; I well make you break it, or I
will keep mine and give myself to the
galleys.'

'I will not go,' she said with a
humility of obedience utterly alien to her
nature. ' I will not go. But it is folly ;
and I am afraid that harm will come

of it;

Let come what will,' said Este, with a

glow of triumph on the pale olive of his
cheeks.

He said no more to her, nor she to him.

She occupied herself in the common
cares of that cleanliness and order which
Joconda had taught her, and with which she
kept her strange dwelling-place as heedfully
as though it were a palace. She
made her bread ; she drew fresh water ;
she prepared a meal of mushrooms and
herb broth ; then she took her spinning-wheel
and sat at it without lifting her
eyes from the distaff.

Without, the rain was still falling
heavily ; the wind was high. There was no
sound on the moors except the rushing of
swollen rivulets and the sough of the bay
and the arbutus boughs blowing and
rustling together ; the woodland animals
were in their forms, their lairs, their earths ;
the birds were all tucked away under the
leafless willows or the thick ilex-oak
foliage. The only creatures that rejoiced
were the marsh frogs and the mallards.

The rain fell all the day.

She spun on and on ; he wove the osiers,
as he had learned to do to wile away the
tedium of the long uncounted hours. Ever

and again he watched her with eyes that
saw lier as though they rested on her for the
first time.

It seemed to him that he had been blind.
He saw her now as Sanctis saw lier ; — a
creature half divine from strength and
innocence united, and with all the fragrance
of the woods and all the freshness of the
dawn and of the dew about her, and with
the mystery of the forest night and the
silence of sleeping nature part of her as they
were of the nymphs, on whom no mortal
looked without madness befalling him, or
death .

Disease and weakness and the carling
pain of continual apprehension had kept
him dull, sightless, half dead ; now he was
roused and saw, and his dead love drifted
away from him and went to join the many
ghosts that walk at midnight down the dim
ways of Mantua, once the Glorious.

Yet still he knew that he had loved his
lady there, as he would not have strength or
faith in him ever to love again.

X the shore, in the wild, wet
mornings Maurice Sanctis waited
for her in vain.

He was too hardy a mountaineer
by birth to heed rainy weather ; he
sat or stood beside her boat in the cleft in the
rocks, and patiently counted the hours as they
went by. There was nothing to be seen on sea
or land ; the one was all mist and wind, the
other was obscured by the driving sheets of
rain. When noon had gone, he gave up all
hope of seeing her that day ; he knew she
did not fear bad weather, yet he thought it
was possible the ink-black skies might have
deterred her from coming so far as the
Sasso Scritto. ' She will be here tomorrow,'
he said to himself, and went back to the
wretchedness of Telamone,

I am a fool,' lie said to himself, but the
folly grew with him. He had set his heart
on saving her from this wild and solitary
life, which was endurable only as long as
youth and health should last, but even then
Alas hourly filled with a thousand sources of
peril and possible evil.

He grew uneasy. It was unlike her
nature to fail in what she had promised ; she
was too grave to be capricious, too tenacious
to be deterred by any obstacle or accident
from doing what she had said she would do.
He saw she had not come there in his
absence, for she had not used the little boat,
which remained always high and dry upon
the shelf of rock, the oars and the fishing-gear
lying inside it. For her to be so many
days away from the sea, lie felt that something
unforeseen and serious must have
occurred.

Any day, a wild boar might turn on
her ; a false step take her from the narrow
]path of safety into the slimy slow death
of the black bog ; the fever that she
never feared might yet overtake her, or the
lawless fierce men from the mountains fid
out her dwelling-place under the malacca
and invite. The soil of Maremma was

treacherous as ago. and, though she made no
count of it, her days were full of danger as
the timid snipe's for whom the fox waits in
the brushwood, and the muzzle of the gun
slips through the reeds, and the hawk
watches above in the air, and the dog steals
through the fennel and brankursine. She in
her courage and ignorance hardly ever
thought of these perils, and trusted to the
earth and to the water as a child to its progenitors.
But Sanctis, who lead thought of
them almost unceasingly ever since he had
first seen her face, was tormented now by
his own imagination.

The people of the coast wondered to see
him there, but they supposed he was one of
those foreigners who to them seemed lialf-
witted, who endured privations, and penetrated
trackless swamps, and asked innumerable
questions, in the effort to find buried
stones and marbles under the vegetation of
Maremma.

He spent money willingly and gave no
trouble, and understood their boating and
their fishing ; he had not been unwelcome
to them in the summer-time, and he paid
largely for the little vessel that he hired and
sailed himself.

He went to the Sasso Scritto on three
fine mornings when the weather had cleared
into the buoyant and transparent brilliancy
usual in winter ; but Musa did not come.

He thought of going on to Orbetello
and there obtaining permission of the
authorities to see the man who had once
been the terror of all travellers and the idol
of all Maremma.

He was curious to know and study something
of that wild nature whose love of
liberty and impatience of control and custom
were inherited by her. He took blame
to himself that he had not done so in the
summer, that he had allowed her intolerance
towards him to drive him so soon away
from her shores.

He promised himself that With the
morrow lie would repair his fault. But
when that day he reached Telamone, the
people of the little town were talking of
an event that had happened that night in
Orbetello.

Listening to their chatter on the beach,
where the aloes pricked through the sand,
he heard that Saturnino of Santa Fiora, as
the people still called him, had escaped a
second time. As they had worked at night

Oil the sea-wall, he had leaped at oue bound
into the waves, as he had done off the island
of Gorgonaa. The night had been dark
from heavy clouds ; in the fitful light from
the lamps and lanterns he had been lost to
sight ; though bullets had ploughed the
waters and boats been sent out in all directions
he had never been seen again. Sharks
were about, and it was guessed that he had
met his fate in their jaws.

It was said that one of the gaolers, who
was a native of the Monte Labbro country,
had favoured the prisoner by intentional,
lack of vigilance ; but no one suspected of
any complicity with him the skipper of the
Sicihan brig that had been beating about up
and down the coast for some weeks, waiting
for a south-easterly wind to bear her back
merrily to Messina — a wind which rose that
night.

The few folks of Telamone, loitering out
there amongst the aloes and the sand and
the loose stones, once more recalled the
long-passed time when Saturnino Mastarna
had been the hero of every tale that was
told on tartan-decks in a calm, or on land
in the hot windless weather.

Sanctis listened to theu^ rambling disjointed

talk, and gathered the facts out of
the loose, redundant words, and a light of
comprehension broke in upon him ; Saturnino
was at large once more, he felt sure
that it was in the tombs that he was
sheltered. He did not for a moment believe
that either the sharks or the sea had killed
him ; he made no doubt for an instant that
her whither's presence was her secret, and his
danger her anxiety. He grew angry against
himself for ever having suspected otherwise ;
for ever having attributed to that fearless
life of hers the passions and the weakness of
an amorous secrecy. His heart grew
lighter ; and he felt that he could not leave
her land.

He waited patiently a whole week, willing
to have her come of lier own accord, if
it were possible, rather than rouse her susceptible
apprehensions of him as of one who
haunted her.

With all the pleasures and successes of
the cultured world ready to this hand, lie,
whose every hour could be ricci in creation
and ambition, stayed on by choice in the
squalor and poverty of a sickly fishing
village : his days empty, his mind barren,
his art neglected, and the world forgotten.

He spent jill his time under the great
wall of the Sasso Scritto, while the surf
leaped up amongst the rosemary and the
Avaves ran in between the now leafless rockrose
bushes.

Great ships passed in the offing, their
canvas swelling in the wind ; yawls and
brigs and the tartane of the coast went to
and fro in the fresh weather, dipping and
showing their copper under the rolling of the
seas ; now and then a little felucca with her
single sail stood off the shore while her men
were fishing, or out from the bay of
Follonica a whole lateen fleet came crowding
when the news was told of a shoal of regni
or rombi seen at sunrise. He waited
patiently, with the sea and its vessels before
his eyes, and the big white clouds floating
above the head of the bluff.

But not a soul came there.

Even his patience, which was long,
began to give way under the stress of
time.

He might wait for ever on this shore.
He began to think that he was under the
sway of Circe, and that these fables after all
were not so far from truth.

Then his fears took a more prosaic path,

and he began to be alarmed lest any accident
of asp-bite, or marsh-miasma, or too rash
trust to the chill waters of the pools and
streams should have befallen this child of
Glaucus that she came not to the sea, to
which he knew her face turned ever so
faithfully, as the face of the sunflower to the
west at evening.

At last, on the morning of the eighth
day, he climbed the cliffs and began to
walk across the evergreen Vater-threaded
land above, where the little slender pipes of
the robins were sounding under the berry-laden
boughs of the bay.

Wild as the country was, and dangerous
with bog that moss and couch grass hid
from sight, he remembered by certain landmarks
of tree and tufa-mound and the look
of the distant mountains how to find his way
back to the tomb of the Lucumo.

She cannot blame me if I go there now,
he thought ; ' she has failed me.'

His heart burned within him with as much
anger and alarm as ever she had felt at his
presence. His natural calmness forsook him.
He had come in good faith for good offices
and he had been met with indignity.

There was not a disloyal thought in him,

VOL. II. s

and she dealt with him as if he were the
hunter and snarer she had called him.

She shall do me justice ere I go, if. I
must leave her to her fate,' he thought ashe
walked on over the soaked turf and cut
his way through the pungent and the prickly
petty gree.

His step flushed woodcocks, the partridge
flew before him up from her tuft
of rosemary, the coots fluttered and splashed
as he passed their pools, a pilgrim falcon
sailed by holding a rat in its talons. He
Alas a mountaineer, a hunter on his own
alps, but he never noticed these creatures
now. Even, artist though he was, the
beauty of the scarlet balls hanging amongst
the glossy leaves of the arbutus, of the red
earth glowing under the morning sun, of the
brimming streamlets coursing through the
grass, of the flocks of white northern divers
settled on the estuaries, of the azure and
emerald wings of the kingfisher and the
porphyries flashing amidst the grey network
of leafless willows, even these, and all the
impalpable wonder of colour woven there in
the shadow and the sunshine as on a web of
green and gold, of scarlet and purple, escaped
his sight that day.

All he saw were sombre eyes, the colour
of summer skies at midnight, looking at him
with mistrust and disdain ; was a mouth, red
as the red arbutus-fruit, saying to him :
though you ask me for ever, never will I
come.'

The way seemed long to him, and his
progress slow. Though Musa ran from
there to the shore almost as quickly as the
fox could do, it was because she knew her
way at its shortest, and sprang over the bogs
by a leap from tussock to tussock, and over
the streams by shallow places that she and
the fox alone had found. To him the path
was tedious and entangled, and it was past
noonday when he at last saw the blasted
sober-oak which marked the place of the
tombs.

Whilst it was still soin distance from
him he saw Musa herself coming across the
moor. She had been gathering mushrooms
and collecting wood ; she had a bundle of
dry boughs poised on her head. She
walked easily and erect under the burden
of it ; some amber leaves which were still
on the branches hung down and touched
her shoulder.

There was nothing in her of the toil thats

2

is sorrow anti poverty ; of toil as Millet has
painted it and modern eyes seen it. Hers
was the old, glad, rural, health-giving, open-air
labour of the Italiote pastoral, of the
Greek girl treading, with feet winged by
youth, the honey-scented herbs and the wild
ivy of Mount Ida.

The world has lost the secret of making
labour a joy ; but Nature has given it to a
few. Where the maidens dance the salta-rollo
under the deep Sardinian forests, and
the honey and the grapes are gathered beneath
the snowy sides of Etna, and the oxen
walk up to their loins in flowing grass where
the long aisles of pines grow down the
Adrian shore, this wood-magic is known still
of the old, sweet, simple charm of the
pastoral life.

Some wistful thought of the sort crossed
the mind of Sanctis as he saw her approach.
After all, what was it he wanted to force on
her? Constraint for freedom, formality for
fawn-like ease, the breath of crowds for the
flower fragrance of the fields, the midnight
oil of anxious study or of feverish pleasure
for the gracious night of a slumbering earth
fresh with dews, unvexed with noise, stirred
only at dawn by whisperings of birds.

For a moment all he had to offer looked
poor and trivial. She had found the charm
that escaped the hands of men when they
slew Pan, and drowned his cries in whirr of
wheels and scream of steam.

The courage of Maurice Sanctis went
out of him as she drew nigh, the golden
leaves touching her lightly-breathing breast.
Plato's self could have found no plea to
urge the hamadryad to leave her groves, the
naiad to forsake her fountain.

At first she had not seen him, for there
was a screen of carob boughs and withered
bracken between himself and her. Wlien
she did perceive that he was there, a great
and, it appeared to him, utterly inconsistent
and disproportionate trouble and anger came
together into her speaking eyes.

She stopped short ; she did not speak.

He approached her, and said, with his
usual gentleness :

I was afraid some ill had happened to
you. It was not like you to break your
word.'

I could not come,' she said, with some
hesitation. ' I thought you would understand
when you did not see me, and that
you would go away.'

I asked you to hear me once, for
Joconda's sake.'

'I could not come,' she repeated, impatiently
; ' and I do not want to hear. I
told you so.'

I know you do not,' he said, with
regret ; ' and I can fancy that you are
reluctant to leave your woodland life. It is
free and has a beauty of its own ; but it
needs perpetual youth and a certainty of
health that are not given to our poor humanity.'


I shall be young a long time,' said
Musa, with her grave smile ; and she drew
a deep breath with the conscious strength of
perfect powers of life rejoicing in themselves.


Yes ; no doubt to you it seems that you
have a kingdom there that you can never
lose. But it will go away from you as it
goes from all ; and water and wind and
weather bring its loss early. Do you never
think of a future ? '

'No,' she answered curtly. A shudder
went over her for a moment. What mio^ht
the future bring ? Could Este always be
saved from his pursuers ? Would the time
come when all her care and thought and

vigilance and sacrifice would be unavailing
to shelter him ?

'But Joconda would have bade you
tank,' he urged to her. ' She herself
thought for you or she would not have
written to us. I know that the life you
have made for yourself, all alone as you
have been, is full of courage and strength,
and has much nobility of purpose and of
independence in it ; and I can understand
that it seems more delightful to you than
any other, because of your wise love of the
open air and the beasts and the birds. But,
dear, it is winter even here ; and if sickness
should overtake you your solitude
would become very terrible. I want sou
to think a little of that. You have no
friends, you have no home, you have no
one to look to in any need ; and there are
many dangers for a creature that is as
beautiful as you are when she is so near
womanhood.'

He paused, not knowing well how to
put his meaning into words that her pride
would hear patiently or her innocence
understand.

I have no one who has a right to say
a word to me,' said Musa, angrily. ' If

that is what you mean, you say truly ; and
you should know by that to hold your peace
and not to importune me.'

I do not wish to importune you said
Sanctis in his turn, a little moved from his
long patience ; ' but the wishes of the dead
are sacred — to me at the least. A woman,
now dead, wrote to her brothers on your
behalf, and I am their representative. As
I have their name and their fortune, so I
have their duties. I should be unworthy of
them if I refused to accept the last as well
as the first. You are too young to know
what perils you run, what a frightful future
you prepare for yourself. If you will not
hear me willingly, I must try what aid the
law will give me. Before the law you are
an outcast, and it would deprive you of
independence, it would regard your dwelling-place
as nothing better than the owl's hole
or the fox's earth ; it would certainly compel
you to accept some other asylum. If I
go to the authorities of Orbetello '

He paused in words which he was using
as his last resource without filly knowing
what they meant, or how far they would
lead him ; for Musa, as she stood before
him, suddenly changed from a listening,

angry child into a pythoness, a honest, a
very incarnation of every shape of rage that
the earth has ever seen upon it. She
snatched from her girdle her long two-edged
knife ; she cast down her brambles
and brandies from her head ; she leaped to
within an inch of him and flashed the steel
before his eyes. All the savage blood of
the Mastarna of Saturnia leaped up in her,
like a naphtha flame from the soil.

Unless you swear to me that you will
never breathe a word of my name or of my
dwelling, I will kill you where you stand,'
she said, as her eyes flashed their sombre
fires into his ; and her voice was not loud,
but low and deep, like the lioness's voice of
menace. Her whole frame seemed alive
with rage, as a tree, lightning-struck, is
alive with the electric fluid ; but it was a
rage that would strike as it threatened, not a
rage that would die of its own violence.

So intense a surprise seized Jim that he
for the moment could say nothing, and did
not move. Tliey gazed into each other's
faces.

Will you swear it ? ' she said, her voice
still low, but as fierce as a snake's hissing.
'If you will not, you shall not leave this

place alive. You are a man and strong ;
but you are unarmed, and I can kill you.'

She kept her eyes fixed on him, and her
Ind clenched on the stiletto. She had no
fear, nor any sense of sin ; all conscience and
all judgment was drowned in the flood of
one passionate instinct — to save Este.

For herself she would not have so
spoken. But for him she was ready to do
the thing she threatened. Why would this
meddler come unasked and undesired, and
thrust himself before her in these green
glades that were all her own ? She turned
on him as the boar turns on his pursuers.

He did not move. For a moment he
thought of wresting the knife from her ;
then he knew her strength and her tenacity
; the manhood in him recoiled from a
struggle with a woman who was scarce
more than a child.

I think you would kill me if you
wished to do it,' he said gently, and with
the sadness that he felt. ' I am stronger
than you, but you are like the lightning of
the skies ; you would find your way to cut
the cord of my life somehow. But I am
not an utter coward, my dear ; and I cannot
promise or swear you anything under a

threat. Put the point of your knife against
my heart if you like, but listen to me for a
moment.'

Musa gripped her stiletto the tighter,
but she did not move it nearer to him.

She understood what he meant, that he
could not say what she wished under a
menace. All courageous instincts found
their echo in her.

You must say that you will speak of me
to no living soul,' she said slowly, ' or I
cmnot let you go alive out of these woods.
It is not that I want to hurt you, but that
if you will not be silent any other way I
must silence you so ; that is all.'

And you would do it,' he said, for he
did not for a moment underrate the un-bleaching
determination that was in her, nor
the ferocity of the wild blood in her when
once aroused. ' But hearken one moment.'

I will not. You wish to betray me.
I will have no more words.'

Betray is a bitter thing to say. I am
no traitor. I meant only that since you
throw yourself away, and all your future, ina
barren and a dangerous life, I should dono
more than my duty if I sought the aid of
the law, which would protect you in your

own despite, and to which you would intime
grow grateful.'

That is betrayal. I have told you that
rather than you should live to do it '

Her eyes were full of fire ; her breath
came and went through her clenched teeth ;
an agony of fear made her ferocious ; her
hand, as it closed on the handle of the
stiletto, trembled with passion ; all the
mercilessness of Saturnino was up and alive
in her.

She longed to strike down this man who
menaced her secret and her treasure.

Had he not been kindred to Joconda she
would have struck, without giving him a
choice.

Do not make me kill you ! ' she muttered
behind her shut teeth.

He disregarded her words. He said
abruptly —

Tell me one thing ; you are not alone
now ? '

She was silent.

Is that why you menace me ? '

What is that to you ? '

You say always, What is it to me !
Well, it is much ; more than you know, or
would understand if you did know. I

think you are the loveliest creature upon
earth, and your ferocity does not disgust
me. It becomes sou ; and it is natural,
being what you are. I want to take you
out of all your ignorance, your peril, your
barbaric liberties, and make of you the
noble woman that you might become. I
have no other motive. I would neither
wrong you nor the dead ; and you are so
young ; but if you be not alone, if there
be another '

It is nothing to you,' said Musa,
with passion and with desperation. ' It
is nothing to you what I am or what I
have.'

You are not alone any longer,' lie said,
with his gaze trying to penetrate lies.

Why should you say so ? '

Because you care too little for yourself,
and are too generous to wish to kill me if it
were only yourself who was disturbed by
my interference.'

He kept his eyes fixed on her as lie
spoke; what he thought was that she
sheltered Saturnino. She did not change
colour or give any sign of the intense agitation
that was in her.

'Very well, then ; think so,' she said

between her slit teeth. 'Think anything
yon please ; bnt leave me to myself.'

I cannot promise that. I should feel a
coward if I did. I cannot leave yon to
yourself, for you are your own worst enemy.'

She was silent ; she was thinking sternly
and unflinchingly, as her father had often
thought of his foes, how she was to be rid
of this man who would be Este's ruin. All
life had been sacred to her in the birds and
the beasts around her ; but now it seemed
to her that she would have no choice but to
take his since he would persist and rush
upon his doom. She had been frank with
him and rude ; she had warned him, she had
refused him, she had done all she could to
turn him aside from what appeared to her
his persecution of her, and he would not
be persuaded. There seemed no choice for
her but to turn on him as the boar was
forced to turn on those who drove him from
the shelter of his bed of bracken and his
screen of oaks.

He had menaced her with the law, and
what would the law on herself mean but the
discovery, the seizure, the eternal misery of
the one for whom she was giving all her
own life without counting it as sacrifice ?

Will you let me come with you to the
tombs ? ' said Sanctis, with entreaty in his
voice. ' Beside Joconda's coffin I do not
think you would be at war with me like this.
I could make you understand '

I understand well enough. You want to
give me up to the law, though I have done
no ill. And I have said that you shall never
do it.'

Will you let me go home with you one
moment ? '

'No. I will never take you there
again.'

Because you are no longer alone ? '

You have threatened to betray me.
That is reason enough.'

Her eyes never ceased to keep their
lioness-like watch on him ; her hand never
relaxed its hold upon the stiletto. He was
of Joconda's kindred, that was the only
thought that made her pause, and give him
one more chance.

You must promise me, swear to me,' she
said passionately, ' or you will make me kill
you. I cannot let you go to bring the law
you boast of as your helper. If first of all
Zirlo had not betrayed me to you, you would
never have had the power to betray me

again, yourself. I am not unjust to you ; if
you are a traitor you deserve a traitor's
death, and I would give it to you — yes —
though I tracked you for twenty years over
one-half the earth.'

He looked at her with perplexity and
admiration. He had lived all his years in
the midst of cultured and controlled communities
where the passions were tamed and
the inborn ferocity of the human animal was
scarcely visible ; he had been reared amongst
pious and reserved people, and his manhood
had been spent amidst men whose minds
were steeped in light and art, and who had
little of the natural brute left in them. This
intensity of purpose, this readiness for fierce
action if by no other means its ends could be
attained, this constancy in vengeance which
would wait through half a lifetime rather
than forego punishment, these the qualities
of an earlier time, of a simpler and freer
world than his, fascinated him by their force
and their absolute unlikeness to anything in
his own life. The sense of impotence that
she had felt before his northern calmness
and tenacity now fell on him before her
more spontaneous and more violent nature ;
he felt that he might as well have tried to

change the course of volcanic lava as endeavour
to sway or alter her, or ever make her
regard him as a friend.

He looked at her, and through his mind
passed many images and memories to which
she had so much likeness. She belonged to
the soil ; lie was one with it ; she had its
fierce suns and its fierce storms in her
nature. Here on this coast, where the Dea
Syria had been worshipped with madness
and mutilation, Avhere Cybele had been
adored Avitli flame and sacrifice, where
earlier yet Mantus and Arcus lead been
propitiated with the palpitating hearts of
scarce dead victims, and the tempest and the
hurricane had been charged with the dread
messages of the gods, here she alone seemed
to live, the last echo and shadow of those
vanished years, of those forgotten religions,
of those changed or perished races.

To him lie seemed less a living soul of
his own time than some young priestess of
Isis, some vision in which Lydia and Latium
both lived, eternally young, preserved in the
secrecy of these forests, without change,
whilst all the rest of earth grew old.

What could he say to lier ?

How could he lioj^e to aUer lier ?

VOL. II. T

Who could ever have wooed Pan from
his thymy nest, and Glaucus from his cool
sea depths ? and who should win her from
their woods and waters that she alone
enjoyed now that Glaucus and Pan were
dead ?

He felt himself powerless and humbled,
as the artificial Avorld is always before the
strength and the simplicity of the sylvan life
that has none of its necessities.

A sigh escaped him. She was dearer to
him than he knew, and he felt that he could
no more hold her than he could have held
the fires of Vesuvius in his hand. He knew
that he could no more bind and influence
her than the shepherds and the mariners of
old could capture Pan and Glaucus.

Well,' he said slowly at the last, ' I
will not seek to force your secrets, and I Avill
even dare to seem a coward to you. It maybe
the truer courage, and perhaps one day
it is as such that you will see it. I promise
you that I will not seek alien aid or bring the
law you abhor to my assistance. So much I
will promise you, though 1 do not see why
you should trust my word since you mistrust
myself.'

'I thought no one ever broke their

promise,' said Musa : in such good faith the
woman of Savoy had reared her.

Well ; think so. I do not ; and you
may trust me. I will speak to no one of you,
or of the sepulchres that shelter you. But
at the same time I do not promise you to
renounce all effort to change you by my
own persuasion if we meet in the neutral
solitudes of these moors or on the shore. I
do not promise yet to go away.'

I cannot send you away,' she said, with
the dusky fire of her eyes still luminous.
But you \vill not come to me ? '

No ; since I am unwelcome.'

She slipped her stiletto back into its
hiding-place, and stooped and replaced the
boughs and brambles on her head.

That is enough,' she said. 'But it will
be better that you should go — me you will
never see.'

'You cannot prevent my seeing you
abroad ? '

She smiled a little at his stupidity.

You will no more see me than you can
see the dwarf-heron when he makes himself
into the likeness of a dead stump and sits,
all grey and brown, amongst the sedges.
You do not know the wisdom of the woods.'

T 2

Before the last word had reached his ear
she was away and was soon lost to sight
beyond a dense wall of arbutus and mastic.

She knew the wisdom of the woods herself
as well as the bittern or the great plover
knows it.

Sanctis retraced his steps with a heavy
heart, seeing nothing in the blue pale light
of the wintry day but her face as it had
been raised to his while her hand had
played with the steel. He was discouraged
and discomfited, and a sense of painful defeat
and mortification was upon him ; she had
threatened his life, and he had yielded to
her. He was a man of courage enough to
bear to look a coward if it were needful to do
so, yet it hurt him as he went away to think
that no doubt, as she was aoino^ thrush the
leafless woodlands and the green bay thicket,
she was thinking of him with contempt, perhaps
with laughter.

But his nature was calm and very patient.
He knew that he had been unwise to use
the menace of the law to her, and that her
menace of the knife had been but her
natural reply. He promised himself to do
better, to speak more tranquilly when next
he sued her ; for her threat that he should

never see her had passed by his ear unheeded.


That she was not alone he believed, yet
since he had heard of the second escape of
Saturnino Mastarna he had felt little doubt
but that her father had sought her out in the
tombs and claimed her shelter by making
himself known to her. He did not think
her savage pride and her stern self-dependence
were compatible with any other secret.

She, who to Este was gentle and soft as
the cushat to her mate, by him had been
always seen untamable, and shy, and fierce
as any one of the dwarf-herons that she
defied him to discover by the pools.

On the mountain side above San Lionardo,
set well above the miasma and rain mists of
the marshes, there was an old castellated
place called Praistanella, half villa and half
fortress, which from the ninth to the thirteenth
century had been a mighty stronghold,
changing hands often in the internecine
wars that ravaged the Massa Maritima.
Later on it lead been less of a fortress,
and had taken some of the characteristics
of a mountain villa, having terraced gardens
made before its matriculated walls and
hundreds of acres of wood behind and

around it. It now belonged to a noble
family who had many such places. It was
neglected and half dismantled. No one
cared to come to it ; stewards ate in its
tapestried halls and peasants made piastres
of its long vaulted corridors.

Maurice Sanctis had wandered over it
in the first days that he had stayed in
Maremma ; the glory of its views, the
intensity of its loneliness, and its war-scarred
towers and weed-grown terraces
pleased him. Money was nothing to him ;
his father Anton had left him great riches,
and he had simple tastes that cost him
little. He thought to himself now that
he would buy this place ; the price was a
mere trifle, hardly more than the value of
the pine-woods about its bastions. It was
melancholy and had been stripped of many
of its carvings, marbles, and tapestries long
before, but the magnificence of its landscape
and the solidity of its walls nothing
but an earthquake could destroy.

That night he went to Grosseto and there
saw the notary who had been charged with
its sale for twenty years and more. To the
rich an easy path is soon made. lie was
promised that in a week or two at the uttermost

the old palace in the Apennines should
be made over to him with all formality and
security ; a true eagle's nest set up on high,
and from its heights commanding all the deep
green vales and the asphodel meadows and
the reedy marshes where of old Etruriann and
Italiote, Eoman and Goth, mercenary of
Bourbon and soldier of Borgia, free lance of
Florence and horseman of Massa, had turn
by turn made the earth a field of death.

LITTLE later, as darkness closed
in without, she and Este sat in
the larger chamber of the Lu-cum's
bier.
It was now on the turn of the new year,
and the earth was green as an emerald,
though it was midwinter, with the forests of
holm-oak and pine, and the dense growth of
olive, of box, of bear-berry, of alterius,
of pyracantha.

The fire burned ; the lamp was lighted ;
she sat once again at her spinning, whilst he
was modelling clay that she had brought
for him from the bed of the Ambrose.

He ]had that facile skill in the arts
which is the gift, and often, also, the curse,
of his countrymen, since it is too readily

skilled at imitation to be often capable
of original creation. It passed the weary
hours for him to mould the clay with
his hands and such rude instruments as he
had been able to fashion out of the bronze
Etruscan spilled and knives found in the
tombs. He thought, too, that the time
might come when she would be able to sell
them for a trifle in some town ; and he
would thus be able to bring his quota to
their maintenance.

He had modelled, in the grey river earth,
flowers and fruits and oak-leaves, all forest
things she brought him ; the Typhon, too, and
the Chimaera, and the lotus-lilies of the walls
around him ; but, oftener of all, the head
of Musa. Sometimes he made her with the
lotus on her brow, like that Branch Antinous
she resembled ; sometimes he set the
sacred hawk of Egypt upon her head, as it
had been set upon Cleopatra's ; sometimes
he took her in her own simplicity, with no
wreath but her own curls, and her woollen
gown, still cut like the tunics of Delia Eob-
bia's choristers, drawn close up around her
slender, rounded throat ; and often, as he
did so, the features and the eyes of the
woman murdered in Mantua would come

before him, and sometimes the bust changed
despite his own will, and had a likeness in
it to his dead love that he would fain have
blurred out and could not ; and then again,
also, when the face in the clay was Musa's
and hers alone, there would be, do what
he could, a reproach in the eyes and a
sternness in the mouth which so annoyed him
that he would dash the earth out of all
shape, and leave it in a heap upon the stone
floor of the tomb.

To her, all these things that he did
seemed marvellous and exquisite. To be able
to take a lump of mud from the stream, and
make it fair, in the likeness of flower or bird
or human face, seemed to her a power and
possession as wonderful as his knowledge of
the past of perished nations. It was the
first time she had been ever touched by the
sorcery of the arts : the true magicians.

She would look at the likeness of herself
with a grave smile ; she was proud to belike
that. Then she would turn her eyes
away.

Joconda always bade me think nothing
of how I was made,' she said once.

Este always heard her speak of Joconda
with impatience.

I told you the first clay I saw you,' he
said to her, ' that one could say of you what
the angel Gabriel, in Boccaccio's story, says
to Madonna Lisa.'

'I do remember,' said Musa, with a sudden
flush upon her face. 'But that very day,
when I looked in the steel mirror because
you had said so, a scorpion ran across the
mirror ; and I believe that Joconda sent it —
to remind me.'

You keep her memory about you like a
knotted cord of penitence ! '

'No, no,' said Musa, softly; 'like a bit
of sweet basil, that keeps away the evil eye.'
Este heard with no sympathy.
Without distinctly knowing it himself,
it was just that ' bit of sweet basil ' which he
desired to pluck out of her hold ; which
held him aloof from her, and surrounded
her with an invisible defence.

It was that sweet basil set against her
breast which made her so unlike his dead
love in Mantua ; whose beauty had dropped
to his wooing as the ripe nectarine drops at
a touch off the sunny south wall.

It was but five or six o'clock ; accurate
time they could only keep by listening for
the Ave Maria bells, morning and evening.

from the monasteries on the mountain side
and the village churches down the distant
shore. The stone doors of the Lucumo's
chamber were shut close, but there was no
lock or bar, from their inability to make
either, and m the stead of those defences
they relied on their quick ears and their
unceasing apprehension of approach.

But in this early evening hour, as the
freshly-lighted heather and pine cones
crackled and blazed, and the coldness and
the gloom of the wintry night closed
in upon the country above them, suddenly
she lifted her head and met his eyes
fixed on her in angry and suspicious
contemplation. She conquered her habit of
silence, so long fostered by Joconda, and
spoke to him.

'Perhaps it is better you should
know ; — he who comes from Paris, and
who wished me to meet him that other day,
is a son of Joconda's nephew, Anton Sanctis.
They were poor, but he is rich.'

Then she went on to tell him in her
terse and simple diction of the coming of
Maurice Sanctis, through the letter of Joconda's
dictation written by the public
scrivener in Grosseto.

Este heard without response, his hands
all the while shaping the clay ; the lids
drooped over his pensive eyes.

A confusion of anger, dismay, and
jealous apprehension made him hear with
disordered mind ; lie kept thinking only :
She will ^o ; sooner or later, she will

go.'

He had heard enough of Paris to know
that it is to all women who have the chance
of it an irresistible paradise and perdition ; a
phosphorescent whirlpool in which all their
barques swim giddily and go down, one in a
thousand escaping.

For a moment he saw her in his fimcv

ft/

taken there, as a wild forest animal is taken
to the light and noise and glitter of the
circus. What would not an artist make of
that beauty that was at once Greek and
Lydian, at once classic and oriental, at
once so vivid and so serene ? What would
she be like, with jewels on her smooth transparent
skin where the blood mounted so
readily beneath the golden brown, with her
great eyes wide opened, astonished at the
world? Would he set pearls about her
throat, and take her there where all the
multitudes of rich and idle life could see

her, in some great circle of some dazzling
amphitheatre ?

All in a moment he saw her as she
would look — Penthesilea in chains of gold ;
the nymphoea alba of the forest waters in a
hot-house ; the pilgrim falcon hooded and
jessed with silk for sport.

If he be rich, why should you not go
where he asks ? ' he said, without raising his
eyes from their work.

The question hurt her, though in her
own simplicity and integrity of purpose she
saw no insult in it.

I would never leave Maremma,' she
said, as she had said to Sanctis.

Never is a word ; you are a woman.
Your " never " will be as long as a summer
day — no longer. Maremma is accurst, your
home is but a tomb ; you will go.'

I shall not go,' she answered, while
melancholy and impatience came upon her
face. Did lie understand her so little ? Did
he so little believe ?

She cluns^ to her own old land as the
fire-fly clings to its field of corn, knowing of,
and wishing for, no other share of earth.

Is he rich — rich indeed ? ' he asked
again.

What is it to me ? ' she answered. ' He
says so. He must be, no doubt, for he does
no work — only makes pictures, such as they
put over the altars in Santa Tarsilla and
Tehimone. Let us say no more of him. I
only told you because I thought it best that
you should know.'

You will think more of him,' said Este,
with sullen insistence. ' He wall tell you of
Paris till you will want to go ; you will learn
to forget Maremma, and to forget me.'

You speak foolishly. Even the bulls do
not forget ; year after year they build in
the same place. Am 1 less worthy than
they?'

He will talk to you till he makes you
go,' persisted Este ; " and why should you
not? You are not made to stay by me in
the twilight, here, for ever. I am but a
felon, and this is but a grave. Elsewhere
there are worlds full of light, of sound, of
stir, of colour ; you will go to them and
look at them with your mysterious eyes that
have all the night in them — the night that
means silence, and dreams, and love — and
they will not understand you because you
come from the depths of the forest and are
not as they are ; but they will adore you,

they will crown you, they will flatter
you, till you will no more remember
Maremma than you think now of the sand
that clung to your feet yesterday as you
came from the sea '

I shall never go ; therefore shall I
never forget,' she said simply, unmoved by
the visions that were framed in his words.

She was sorry he understood so little ;
he seemed to her to speak foolishly and
thanklessly.

'Have I once failed him?' she thought.
Have I once tired, that he thinks me so
poor a thing ? '

Why should you not go ? ' he said
obstinately. ' Why should you stay ? '

Wliy does the snipe stay in her reeds,
and the mountain dove cling to her rock ? '

He was silent awhile. Then he rose and
pushed the clay aside, and came nearer to
her.

The snipe has her mate and the rock-dove
too,' he said with a soft murmur of his
voice. ' But you — you do not love me,
though you befriend me so.'

A troubled look came into her eyes, and
she left off her spinning.

You love the woman in Mantua,' she

said, almost sternly ; this Mantuann memory
hurt her although love was in no way
distinct to her, and although when she used
its name she still understood little of its
passion.

Yes,' said Este, with a quick sigh and
shudder. ' But that past is past. She cost
me dear. Her memory is only terrible
'

Is tJiat love ? ' said Musa, with a scornful
smile upon her mouth. It seemed to her
very poor.

It was ours,' he answered. ' We had a
summer night; then tempest. The storm
wrecked us. Oh, I loved her — yes. For
months I never looked at you ; do you not
remember ? Now that I look, now that I
see, you bid me be blind.'

I do not understand,' she said, troubled
and confused. ' If you loved her, that was
for ever. Just because she is dead, is that
a reason to change ? Why should you look
at me ? I serve you. I do what I can ;
you are safe with me ; that is all you want,
since liberty you cannot have.'

Xo ; liberty and I have said farewell.
My life must pass in a prison, here or elsewhere.
But you nr.iy make the prison so
VOL. H. U

fair that I shall deem it one no longer. You
serve me, yes ; but do more — love me. Ina
way you do, I know ; but it is not that
way which will content me. You are not a
dog, nor a servant, like those two whose
ashes lie in the entrance there. You must
give me more than dogs and slaves can give,
faithful and tender though they be. Oh, my
dear ! love is given us to make a sunshine in
this gloomy place. The mountain doves
you talk of do not dwell apart I '

He glided to her feet and sat there, and
drew the distaff away from her, and gazed at
her with caressing eyes that subdued her
to his will and poured trouble into her heart.

We are happy as we are,' she murmured.
' Do not look so ! No ; you are not
happy ; I forgot. But I thought it was
always for Donna Aloysia you sorrowed '

Let the dead be. We live ! ' said Este
with sudden passion, as his arms enclosed
her and his face drooped towards her
breast.

But she, with a sudden movement of
alarm and anger that were rather at herself
than him, thrust him away and rose with
abrupt rapidity.

You hurt me,' she said feverishly, and

with the first personal fear that she had ever
known. ' Oh ! I have been so happy ! '

The tears rushed into her eyes. She did
not Ivnow what ailed her. Some great
impending loss seemed to hang over her.

Dear, there is more happiness than
that he murmured. ' You have known but
the daybreak ; I will lead you to the noon.
Are you afraid ? '

His hand stole towards her, his eyes
magnetised her, his lips approached her.

For the first time she shrank from
him : ' Let me go ; let me think,' she said
faintly.

Neither of them heard a step come over
the moist ground above and descend the
steps, and pass the entrance chamber.
Before either had been warned by the
slightest sound, one of the rock-doors was
thrust open, and through its aperture
there came Maurice Sanctis.

They sprang to their feet, and the hand
of each went quick as thought to the haft of
a knife ; but before they could move or
even think, he cried quickly :

Wait ! I come in Warning. Men from
the hills, from San Lionardo, mean to visit
you to-night. They have a fancy that gold

u 2

is hidden in the tomb. I overheard them ;
so I came.'

He was out of breath from the haste he
had made; the night dews clung about him.
His eyes, even as he spoke, were staring in
blank amaze upon Este. Este himself stood
erect, white to the lips with overpowering
fear : but as he met the gaze of another man,
the old chivalric blood that ran in his veins
compelled him to conquer fear, and with
dignity, even amidst his terror of discovery,
and with a patrician's grace, he put Musa
aside as she sprang towards the stranger,
and himself advanced a step.

I am Count Luitbrand teste,' he said
simply. ' If you be my enemy, you can
give me up ; I am a runaway felon.'

There was silence between them for a
moment ; the grasp of his hand on her
wrist held Musa motionless, and her hatred
and her anguish alone spoke to the other
through her eyes.

Count Luitbrand teste,' said Maurice
Sanctis at length, with a voice that he had
hard pains to control, for his heart was
beating in tumult against his ribs, 'I know
nothing of you ; I am not a hunter of men.
I heard what I said awhile aj^o on the

hills ; the men will come here after Ave
Maria '

Go out,' said Miisa to Este. ' Hide
under the shrubs till I call you ; I A\ill wait
and give them welcome.'

She did not even look at Sanctis ; she
heard the words of warning, thinking of
Este, taking their sense by instinct, but
without attention to their speaker.

I will not leave you. Can you think
me so poor a creature ? ' he answered ; the
presence of another man stung the dulled
spirit in him into life.

What of me ! ' she cried, with agony of
entreaty. ' I will show them that there is no
gold ; then they will go. But if they see
you '

Go, both of you,' said Sanctis, sternly.
Since you dwell here together, go together ;
I will stay and receive these men. When I
have dismissed them, you can return ; I too
shall be gone.'

Why should you do this? Why should
you think of us ? ' said Este.

'I do not think of you. I do not know
you. I came to warn her, to save her from
insult and violence, for when the men fid
there is no gold they will be brutal ; she

will have told you of me ; I am the grandson
of the brother of Joconda '

You are generous,' said Este.

There Alas a tone in the words that drew
fire from the calm eyes of Sanctis as steel
does from the flint-stone.

It does not matter what I am,' he said,
with effort keeping his patience. 'What
matters now is the loss of a moment. These
hill-men come on a devil's errand in hope to
get man's godhead. Let them find me here
alone. They will find with me dogs that
bite.'

He showed the steel of his pistols that
he wore in a belt about his waist.

She broke from Este and came up to
him and gazed at him with passionate, imploring,
searching eyes that tried to read his
inmost soul.

You will not betray him ? ' she said
under her breath. ' Now you know why I
said that I must kill you if you told '

Sanctis drew away from her.

I am not a spy of the police,' he said
coldly. ' You may be satisfied of that.'

She looked at him in silence.

She did not doubt him, yet she was
afraid.

A secret once disclosed is like a bird
once loosed : who can say where it may go ?

Go, and take liii with you,' added
Sanctis, with a certain harshness in his tone.
I shall not betray him, but these men, once
they see him, will.'

We had better stay,' urged Este. ' We
have both dancers ; we can do something
'

There must be nothing of that sort,'
said Sanctis, with cold indifference. ' If
blood were shed, the Anie and cry would be
out over the country and the guards here.
The men will go when I speak to them.*

It is the father of Zirlo ! ' said Musa
between her teeth. ' I will wait — but gogo,
go; — if the men of San Lionardo see
you, the carabineers of Telamone will be
here to-night.'

Sanctis laid a hand on her shoulder
with an imperious gesture.

'Go out into the dark and hide — you
and your friend — you have " the wisdom of
the woods " you say ; use it. When I sound
this whistle three times it will be safe for
you to return. Go ; or you will have the
men down on you — and him.'

A quick shudder of cold, like an ague,

passed over her as he spoke of Este's danger.
She dropped her head on her breast and
drew Este towards the inner chambers with
both hands.

He is right,' she said. ' Come, oh my
love ! Come ! '

Even in that moment of supreme peril
and fear, the eyes of Este shone with a great
triumph.

He glanced at Sanctis ; then went.

Sanctis, left alone in the chamber of the
Lucumo, heard the sound of their retreating
steps as they passed across the other
cells and bec^an to ascend the rocks without.

Then he sat down on the stone bier where
the Etruscan prince had lain in his golden
armour, and placed his pistols beside him.
He had received so great a shock that it
seemed to him as if the very pulse of this
life had stopped ; but he was quite calm,
and he listened for the sounds without with
the fine ear that was his mountaineer's
heritage.

As he had walked down through the
woods that afternoon from Preestanella, he had
overheard a scheme discussed between the
father of Zefferino and two charcoal-burners
of the oak forests below San Lionardo.

Their plan was to come some dozen in force
and plunder the tombs, and treat the dweller
there better or worse, according as she
yielded to them or resisted.

Lie will resist,' Zefferino's father lead
said with a laugh, ' and then — well, there
are dead there already ; and who will
know ? '

Then the minds of the men had inflamed
themselves with mad hopes of uncountable
treasure and unearthly beauty.

They do say she is the daughter of
Lucifer,' they had muttered one to another.

So much he had heard ; passing by
unseen in his grey clothes amongst the grey
tangle of leafless branches and tall-growing
rosemary.

He now moved into one of the inner
cells all the traces of her residence there,
the lute, the candelabra, the handsome bronze
vessels, the look of which might tempt
the San Lionardo men to plunder ; then,
with the lamp burning but the fire extinguished,
he sat down and waited for
them, and rested this eyes whilst he did soon
the clay busts that wore the likeness of
Musa.

He has been here long,' lie thought.

With his eye trained to perceive beauty in
the lowliest flower, the most fleeting phase
of nature, he had rendered instant justice to
the personal beauty of Este, to his supple
panther-like grace, to his patrician's air, to
his face that was such as Lionardo might
have seen in a vision of Adonis.

He understood everything now.

He needed to ask no question.

He had seen the printed notice all along
the coast, offering the Government reward
for the apprehension of Luitbrand teste.
One glance at Este's face and hers had told
him all he had to know.

He guessed the whole story, and he
understood why she had guarded her secret
so fiercely and had threatened his own life
under her terror of the law.

He smiled once, bitterly.

Poor Joconda ! ' he thought, ' of what
use was it to stretch a dead hand from the
grave ? '

Then he remembered that Joconda's body
was lying there, within a few feet of him.

The remembrance subdued the sardonic
bitterness which was coupled with his pain.
He sat still there, and time went on, and the
evening deepened into night.

He remembered two years before, when
he had passed through Italy on his way
eastward, pausing in Ferrara, and Brescia,
and Mantua, and staying longer in the
latter city on account of a trial then in
course of hearing in the court of justice,
which had interested him by its passionate
and romantic history ; it had been the trial
of the young Count teste, accused of the
assassination of his mistress. Sanctis had
gone with the rest of the town to the hearing
of the long and tedious examination of witnesses
and of accused. It had been a warm
day in early autumn, three months after the
night of the murder ; Mantua had looked
beautiful in lier golden mantle of sunshine
and silver veil of mist ; there was a white,
light fog on the water meadows and the
lakes, and under it the willows waved and
the tall reeds rustled ; whilst the dark
towers, the forked battlements, the vast
Lombard walls, seemed to float on it like
sombre vessels on a foamy sea.

He remembered the country people
flocking in over the bridge, the Sells ringing,
the red sails drifting by, the townsfolk
irathcrinf? together in the covered arcades and

o DO

talking with angry rancour against the dead

woman's lord. He remembered sitting in
the hush and gloom of the judgment hall and
furtively sketching the head of the prisoner
because of its extreme and typical beauty.
He remembered how at the time he had
thought this accused lover guiltless, and won

CD ^

tered that the tribunal did not sooner suspect
the miserly, malicious, and subtle meaning of
the husband's face. He remembered listening
to the tragic tale that seemed so well
to suit those sombre, feudal streets, those
melancholy waters, seeing the three-edged
dagger passed from hand to hand, hearing
how the woman had been found dead in her
beauty on her old golden and crimson bed
with the lilies on her breast, and looking at
the attitude of the prisoner — in which the
judges saw remorse and guilt, and he could
only see the unutterable horror of a
bereaved lover to whom the world was
stripped and naked.

He had stayed but two days in Mantua,
but those two days had left an impression on
him like that left by the reading at the fall
of night of some ghastly poem of the middle
ages. He had thought that they had condemned
an innocent man, as the judge
gave his sentence of the galleys for life ;

and the scene had often come back to his
thoughts.

The vaulted audience clamber ; the
strong light pouring in through high grated
windows ; the pillars of many-coloured
marbles, the frescoed roof; the country
people massed together in the public place,
with faces that were like paintings of
Mantegna or Masaccio ; the slender supple
form of the accused drooping like a bruised
lily between the upright figures of two
carabineers ; the judge leaning down over his
high desk in black robes and black square
cap, like some Venetian lawgiver of Veronese
or of Titian ; and beyond, through an open
casement, the silvery, watery, sun swept landscape
that was still the same as when Romeo
came, banished, to Mantua. All these had
remained impressed upon his mind by the
tragedy which there came to its close as a
lover, passionate as Eomeo and yet more
unfortunate, was condemned to the galleys
for his life. ' They have ill judged a guiltless
man,' he had said to himself as he had
left the court with a sense of pain before
injustice done, and went with heart saddened
by a stranger's fate into the misty air, along
the shining Vater where the Mills of the

Twelve Apostles were churning the great
dam into froth, as they had done through
seven centuries, since first, with reverent
care, the builder had set the sacred statues
there that they might bless the grinding of
the corn.

Sitting; now in the silence of the
tomb, Sanctis recalled that day, when,
towards the setting of the sun, he had
strolled there by the water-wheels of the
twelve disciples, and allowed the fate of an
unknown man, declared a criminal by
impartial judges, to cloud over for him the
radiance of evening on the willowy Seraglio
and chase away his peaceful thoughts of
Virgil. He remembered how the country
people had come out by the bridge and
glided away in their boats, and talked of
the murder of Donna Aloysia and the
sentence of Luitbrand teste ; and how they
had, one and all of them, said, going back
over the lake water or along the reed-fringed
roads, to their farmhouses, that there could
be no manner of doubt about it — the lover
had been moonstruck and mad with
jealousy, and his dagger had found its way
to her breast. They had not blamed him
much ; but they had never doubted his

guilt ; and the foreigner alone, standing by
the mill gateway, and seeing the golden sun
go doA\ai beyond the furthermost fields of
reeds that grew blood-red as the waters
grew, lead thought to himself and said half
aloud :

Poor Eomeo ! he is guiltless, even
though the tasso-er were his '

And a prior, black-robed, with broad
looped-up black hat, who was also watching
the sunset, breviary in hand, lead smiled and
said, ' Nay, Eomeo, banished to us, had no
blood on his hand ; but this Eornco, native
of our city, has. Mantua will be not ill rid
of Luitbrand teste.'

Then he again, in obstinacy and against
all the priest's better knowledge as a
Mantuann, lead insisted and said, ' the man
is innocent.'

And the sun lead gone down as he had
spoken, and the priest had smiled — a smile
cold as a dagger's blade — perhaps recalling
sins confessed to him of love that had
champed to hate, of fierce delight ending ii
as fierce a death-blow. Mantua in her day
has seen so much alike of love and hate.

The man is innocent,' he had said
insisting, whilst the carmine light had

glowed on the lagoons and bridges, and on
the Lombard walls, and Gothic gables, and
high bell-towers, and ducal palaces, and
feudal fortresses of the city in whose street
Crichton fell to the hired steel of bravoes.

The man is innocent,' he had said that
night in Mantua ; and now once more he
lead looked upon him, and his innocence
seemed no longer to him clear as then.

The priest, no doubt, he mused now,
knew better than he, a prior of Mantua as he
was, and able to judge aright the lover of
Donna Aloysia.

To live here, sheltering himself by ruin
to the one who aided him ; to live here,
defended by a girl's love, maintained by a
girl's labours ; — was this not as guilty a
think; as to have struck the darker through
the lilies at that Mantuann woman's breast?
And baser, perhaps, because less bold than
that. To Sanctis it seemed so, at the least,
in this first hour of overwhelming surprise,
of extreme bitterness, of intense disappointment
and chagrin. To him the savage
purity of her life had been sacred ; he had
believed in it undoubting. To him she
had been a vestal, a dryad, Penthesilea,
Maia, Britomart, everything strong pure,

heroic, virginal, steeped in innocence as the
flowers were steeped in the penetrating force
of the sunlight, clothed in the impenetrable
armour of an absolute ignorance of evil. He
had called her Una in his own thoughts ashe
had gone away from her through the
aisles of the evergreen-oaks.

o

And nowt

hurt him like a personal shame, it
wounded him as if in his own honour, to
find her here in the heart of the earth, side
by side with the lover of that murdered
Mantuann woman whom angrily to himself
he called the hero of a tawdry tragedy.

He remembered that in Mantua that
day lie had thought the accused prisoner
innocent, but now it seemed to him that he
must have been in error and the judge and
the priest been right. He was a man of
noble temper and usually just judgment ;
but, unconsciously, the finding of Este there
had made the Mantuann tale stand out before
him in new colour, in strange guiltiness,
blood-red as the sunset he had watched over
the westward lake.

Nevertheless, guilty or guiltless, he had
promised to save him. He had to do so,
even whilst at that very hour, no doubt, this

VOL. II. X

other Lombard Eomeo was hiding with her
hand in his, her breath upon his cheek, in
the darkness of the wooded glades and the
hushed mystery of the moorland night.

By his watch two hours went by ; then,
listening intently, he heard a sound of
several feet moving amidst the grass above
him.

They were near. He sat in the same
position, but he took a revolver in each
hand, ready cocked, and fixed his eyes on
the stone doorway.

The steps came, heavy and trampling,
down the few steps into the entrance-place.
There were some dozen men in all,
black-browed fierce-eyed charcoal-burners of
the mountains ; the father of Zefferino was
in the rear ; he carried the only lantern
amidst them ; they were all armed with
daggers or knives, two or three had axes
also and pickaxes.

They expected in the huche delle fate to
find more gold than all the Emperors of
Eome had owned.

Sanctis watched them, without moving ;
they did not see him as they hustled and
trampled through the entrance, already
jealous of each other, hot with greed, burning

with wicked passions, yelling aloud for
the girl and the gold.

When they stumbled, like fierce, stupid
cattle, into the chamber of the Lucumo,
Sanctis rose, and levelled his aim at them.

Halt there,' he said to them. * The
first that advances is a dead man.'

They hung together in a throng ; they
did not approach. They stared in bewildered
awe at the steel tubes of the pistols
and at the calm, stern eyes of this unknown
man.

What do you want ? ' he asked them.

They for a moment did not speak ; then
the father of Zefferino, who was the ringleader
and promoter of their foray, cursed
heaven and earth, and cried aloud :

We want the gold ; there is gold here ;
it belongs to us of right ; we are the men of
the soil. She is a witch, a devil and the
child of devils ; she struck my own boy till
almost he died under her hand. We want
the gold she has found ; we will let her go
if she give us the gold '

Sanctis kept his eyes fastened on them,
and he saw the whole dusky, restless mass
of them writhe and cringe under his gaze
and the death-dealing tubes of his weapons.

X 2

You are wicked men,' he said sternly ;
and you may thank God and me that you
are spared to-night adding the blackest
crimes of earth to your souls. I know all
you came to do. I know the names of you
all. There is no gold here; there is nothing
of any value here whatever. There
are dead men's skulls, if you be bold enough
to look on them. Constantino, father of
Zefierino, you lie ; and you have brought
your friends on a fool's errand. Go back as
you came ; and swear by the Madonna and
the Holy Spirit never to return.'

His calm voice, which had so much
menace in it, awed them not less than the
slim steel of his arms, beside which their
knives seemed weapons so poor and slow.
They were astounded and affrighted. They
began to mutter against Constantino who
had brought them thither, and to turn on
him with gnashing teeth.

If you do not take the oath, it will be
worse for you,' pursued Sanctis, as he saw
the impression he had made. ' I have
bought all the lands above San Lionardo ;
you are all men of my ground and my
forest. If I say how you have come hither
to-night, the law will lay hold of you ancj

not let you go lightly. Gold there is none
here. Had any found it, would they be
such fools as not to bear it away ? Learned
men care for these tombs, but there is
nothing in them for those who are ignorant.
I treat you more peaceably than you merit.
Come, take the oath I bid you while my
patience lasts.'

It Alas Constantino ! ' they muttered
with one voice ; and they cursed him.

If there is no gold, there is the girl,' he
shrieked in self-defence. ' Where is she ? '

She is not here,' said Sanctis. ' And if
she were she should be sacred to you as
your cross, or I would kill every one of you
like flies. She has those who can defend
her from afar, and whom you had better
fear in the future. Come, I have seen
enough of you; take the oath that I tell
you, or I may lose my patience. I have
your lives in my hand.'

They were men, ferocious enough if
crossed, with all an animal's instincts without
an animal's innocence ; they were brutal
in their lonely lives, where it was so liard
for the law to reach them. Tliey had come
primed for any and every crime that the
hidden sepulchres would cover, and they had

mad dreams of riches that should make them
free from need to labour all their years to
come. But they were so amazed, so discomfited,
so cowed by the stern serenity of
this northern stranger and the cruel gleam
of his merciless weapons that they hustled
one another uneasily to and fro, and gnashed
their teeth against their misleader and
deceiver ; and unwillingly, yet with one
voice, they swore never again to molest the
tomb.

Their hungry eyes, roving over the
chamber, saw its nakedness, its emptiness.
The half-worked clay told no tale to them.

They felt a mortal terror of this fair-faced,
cold-eyed man risen up there against
them in the midst of this place of the dead.
The father of little Zirlo muttered that he
had meant nothing ; only to share the
gold honestly.

Go, all of you,' said Sanctis, surprised
at his own facile victory. ' Since you
repent, I too will forget. But if you transgress
again, then you will find my memory
is long and my bullets reach far.'

We will go,' muttered the charcoal-burners,
feeling still a shivering cold, as of
those steel barrels pressed against their

brows ; and they began to trample backwards,
hustling against each other in their
mortification and confusion, and looking
with strained, dazzled eyes for ever at the
levelled pistols.

He heard them make their slow way out,
and heard them when they reached the air
fall into furious recrimination, and loud
inquiries, one of each other, while the voice of
ZefTerino's father rose shrieking in their
midst.

He went up the stone stair himself, and
sent a shot up into the starry heavens.

Be off in silence,' he called to them, ' or
you will have more of these messages.'

In the fitful shadows of the night, lit
only by the stars, lie saw the whole troop of
them seem to melt away and be swallowed
up in the great void of the darkness.

The night once more was peaceable,
with no other sound in it than the wings of
the water-hen splashing in the pools, and
the feet of the rodents scurrying through
the brushwood.

He laid his ear to the ground to hearken
to the retreating tread of his discomfited
antagonists ; but he heard nothing save the
rustle and the murmur of insects and chiron

MAREMMA.

opera. There was no fear of the return of
the San Lionardo men, for their souls were
white-livered though their appetites were
fierce, and they had been scared and palsied
with awe of this man who had known their
secret thoughts, and waited for them in the
place of the dead.

He listened for half an hour or more
for any echo of their returning steps, but
there was nothing near save the bats wheeling
through the gloom and the wood-rats
running fast and noiseless through the grass.

Then he descended into the tomb ; laid
his pistols down upon the Lucumo's bier,
and blew a dog-whistle three times. It
pierced the stillness of the night air with a
shrill blast.

HEN the two who lead hidden,
without, returned with timidity
and wonder to their resting-place,
they found it empty. lie was
no longer there ; he had left them his
weapons. They stood a moment, silent,
from the reaction of a horrible fear and an
overwhelming sense of wonder, gratitude,
and rejoicing.

Then the glance of Este lighted on the
slender tools of death, and he took them up
and examined them with tenderness and
delight.

He has left these for us ! ' he cried to

her. ' Look ! he must love you very much

It is for Joconda's sake,' she answered

him ; her face was grey with a terror that

she would never have felt for herself alone.
The horror of the past hours clung to her
as the spider's web clings to the hand that
has touched it. A sense of cowardice and
of something shameful was upon her ; she
could not have explained what she felt. It
hurt her that all the courage, all the sacrifice
of self, all the risk and peril, should have
been allotted to Sanctis, not to her. It was
a great debt that would for ever hang like
a stone about her neck ; she could never
again be free to menace him, to brave him,
to insult him if she chose, and drive him
away with the scourge of her words.

'He has done us a very noble service,'
said Este, as he still feasted his eyes on the
pistols ; ' and he has done us a still greater,
yet, by leaving these. Now we need never
be taken — alive. He is a generous man.
You must think so .^ '

No doubt he is generous,' she answered
slowly ; then with sudden violence she
turned on Este.

Will he stay here, think you, or go
away.^ '

How can I tell ? '

I think he will go, now that he has
seen you.'

You had told him nothing ? '

How could I tell him ? He might
have betrayed you.'

No ; he would never do that. I wish
we knew whether he would go ; he loves
you '

I do not think so. Why should he ?
It is for Joconda's sake that he does these
things. I hope he will go ; now that he has
saved us, I can say nothing to him that I
used to say.'

You have been harsh to him ? '

'Yes ; because he wearied me. He
wanted me to go to his own land, to another
life. I told you all that ; it troubled me
and I was harsh. The other day I told
him I would kill him ; I had my knife out
against his heart, and I would have done it.
Yes ; he is generous, but I do not like such
debt as this laid on me. One cannot breathe
under it. Wlien I see him again, what can
I say ? I shall never be free ; — he has
saved you ; how can I pay him for that if I
live a thousand years ? '

All the payment lie would wish, you
would not give ; and if you would, I should
not let you give it. Oh, my dear, you are
very blind. Men love you '

I do not want that,' said Musa, with
the sternness he so seldom saw in her. ' You
do not understand ; he has done this tonight
because it was right to do it, because
he is generous, as you say ; the other day I
Avould have killed him.'

Because it is me that you love,' murmured
Este, as his hand laid down the
pistols and stole up about her throat.

She shook him off a little roughly.

Yes, I love you,' she said, with an
infinite meaning in the simple words. ' I
love you. You are all I have, and I have
saved you, and I would give my life for yours.*

That is love. Yet you are so
cold '

'Cold? I? I thmk not; but do not
touch me ; it was so you touched the woman
dead in Mantua. It angers me '

She was about to say ' it frightens me
but the strong courage inherent in her
shrank from the acknowledgment of any
fear. When he would have insisted, she
still put him away from her with more
sternness than he had ever seen.

'We have escaped with our lives tonight,'
she said, with reproach and awe in
her voice ; ' think not of me ; pray to God.'



Then she loosened his hand off her once
more, and went to where the coffin of
Joconda lay, and kneeled down there and
murmured her thanksgiving.

He stood by the Lucumo's bier and
did not venture to follow her.

Neither did he dare to put up any
prayer.

^^l^^WO days later iu the year Sanctis
^pi ^^ stood alone in the great central

t^ir^® ^^^1 ^^ ^^^ ^^^ fortress of which
he had become lord.
The shadows of the early winter morning
were grey and sombre ; a pale sunshine
coming through them faintly touched a
gigantic carnatic in Carrara marble at
his side. In that splendid age when the
prince and the noble, sheathing their swords
in moments of repose, turned to the arts
alike for pleasure and for glory, the lords of
Massa had summoned painters of Florence
to decorate and ennoble this place that was
now forgotten and going to decay on the
solitary mountain side, as so many other
palaces and castles fade and fall, all over
Italy, burying their stories with them.

The colours Avere dim on the vast vault
of the ceiling ; the gilding of the friezes was
covered with webs of dust ; the marbles of
the columns and the statues were stained and
broken ; but there was a grandeur in the
place that gained rather than lost from that
invasion of time, that dimness of age.

He had pmxhased, but he was about
to leave it, and he knew that most likely
he would never return. His heart was sick
within him. He had been beaten and baffled.
It seemed to him that the good and evil
genius in which the Etruscan, like the
Asiatic, had believed, had striven together
for the soul of her, and the holier spirit
had lost.

He could do nothiiK^ more. She had
chosen this man, and must abide with him
since that was her choice. Now more than
ever it was impossible to invoke the aid of
the lii, since to let in one ray of light
upon that myrtle-hidden necropolis would
be to deliver her companion to this gaolers.
There she must stay, and drift to whatever
misery she might ; the burden she had
bound upon her shoulders none could lift off
from them against her will.

He stood in the hall of this ancient place

of Prsestanella, which he had bought with a
faint but happy hope which he had never
cared wholly to analyse ; and his heart was
heavy as he said to himself that there was
no more for him to do than to turn his face
for ever from this ' sun-bright waste,' which
would haunt him, he thought, through all
the remaining years of his life.

His eyes rested, without his knowing
well what they saw, on the wide landscape
beyond the columns of the loggia; on
the slope of the olive covered mountain
bathed in morning vapour that drifted
down and spread like a lake over all
the wooded valleys and level pastures faraway
below. As he looked he saw
a figure coming up the hillside, with
the white mists all along it : a figure
which always looked to him like the very
divinity of the woods, which always seemed
to him to have a forest fragrance and a wild
doe's grace.

She came steadily upward, clothed in
her garment of lamb's-wool, with a white
cloth folded on her head as a ciociara wears
it on the mountain ways that lie about
Horace and the Lioness.

He saw her for awhile, mounting slowly

but surely under the olive boughs ; then he
ost her from slight for a time where the
rough road wound away under the outer
bastions of the old fortress ; then in a little
while, which seemed very long to him standing
wondering and expectant there, she
came unannounced through the farthest
circle of the long open arcade that opened
from the loc^j^^ia.

She came towards him in silence, without
embarrassment, without hesitation.

Himself, he neither moved nor spoke.

A great anger and a great yearning
wrestled together in his heart, and held
him silent.

I wished to thank you,' she said simply,
as she came and stood before him.

He was mute.

I thought I ought to thank you for all
you did,' she said again. ' I heard that you
were here, so I came.'

It is a long way to come for so little,'
he said, his strong emotion seeking a
refuge in a commonplace truism.

That is nothing to me,' she said. ' I
wished to thank you. You were brave and
kind ; you were very generous ; I had been
rude and thankless.'

VOL. II. Y

Do not talk of that ; I did nothing.'

'You did much. And you left your
pistols.'

They may be of use.'

It was good of you ; and I am grateful.'

He had not looked at her since she had
first entered ; he did not look at her now ;
many words sprang to his lips, but he did
not wish to utter them.

'You know I am not ungrateful,' she
said wistfully. ' That is all 1 came to say.
You were bold and generous, and we
seemed craven. It was hard, but you
understood ; — it was not for myself I would
have hidden.'

I know,' said Sanctis quickly. ' I have
never undervalued your courage.'

That is all I came to say. You will go
away now, will you not ? '

Yes ; I go away — at once.'

And this place ? '

'This place will not be more forsaken
than it has been. It is mine, but most
likely I shall never look on it again. Child,
why could you not trust me ? Could you
think I should have betrayed your friend ? '
How could I tell ? And his secret was
not mine to give away.'

Sanctis was silent ; he had not yet looked
at her face ; her presence hurt him. He
wronged her ; he thought her bold and without
the natural shame of her womanhood.

She had no shame because she was as
yet as innocent as a forest-doe.

Do you want anything of me ? ' he
said abruptly.

She looked at him in some surprise.

No ; I only wanted to say that. I could
not bear to seem thankless and a coward.
I am sorry, too, that I was harsh and rude,
since you have been so brave and have saved
him.'

The face of Sanctis darkened.

I should not have lifted my ]hand to
save him ; I did what I did for you. How
can you harbour him? how can you care
for him ? He is a felon.'

He is innocent. He never killed her.'

He did not reply. The scene in the
judgment-hall of Mantua rose up before his
eyes.

Watching him she grew angry at his
looks and at his silence.

You believe he is innocent ? You
must ; you shall. He loved her ; he would
not have hurt a hair of her head.'

Y 2

I was present at his trial,' said Sanctis
coldly. ' Mantua believed him guilty.'

Mantua might ; you could not ? You
are a painter of men's faces — look in his.'

He was silent a moment. Then the
justice of his nature conquered him ; he
remembered that when the man was nothing
to him he had believed firmly in the innocence
of this most unhappy lover. Had
he not said to the priest on the bridge of
the Argive, ' Poor Eomeo ! he is guiltless.*
Should he say less to her ? Should he
affect to see the stain of blood because the
accused was hateful to him ?

I did believe him innocent,' he said at
length, with effort. ' Few others did ; but I
believed so, though the dagger was his own
with which the woman was murdered. He
has told you that ? '

Yes ; it was one he had left in her
chamber after a masked spectacle. He is
innocent.'

Sanctis said nothing.

I will go now,' said Musa. ' I came to
thank you. I do thank you from my heart ;
I never will forget. We shall not meet
any more. Farewell.'

He turned suddenly, and for the first

time looked full at lier ; his eyes were dim,
and his face was pale and very troubled.

Oh, child, what can I say to you ? ' he
murmured. ' If you would only have listened
in the summer ; now it is too late. Have you
thought what it is that you do ? '

Do not speak of me. It is of no use.'

I fear it is of no use ; yet — even now —
dear, I would always befriend you ; I would
serve you in any way. You cared for
Joconda ; think of her a little. If you would
still put your trust in me, you might still be
saved for a better life than this one — hiding
in the heart of the earth with a condemned
felon as your companion. Nay, — we will
say he is condemned unjustly. His city does
not think so. Once discovered he must suffer
his sentence ; and you, as the one who has
hidden him and braved the law for him, will
be condemned as well.'

Oh, I know,' she answered quietly ;
they will punish me with him — now.*

Her words were quiet, but in her eyes
there shone gladness and exultation.

A revulsion of feeling came over him ashe
heard. He thought her devotion hardihood
; he thought her loyalty audacity.

• They would punish you, no doubt,' he

answered, more coldly than he had spoken
before. ' And sooner or later they will find
you ; the moors and the woodlands are wide
and lonely, but some time the eye of the law
will find him out in your cave. The peril of
last night will renew itself when I am not
there. He may kill you and himself, perhaps,
but there will be no other way of
escape.'

That will be as it must be ; men have
hidden all their life, I think, in Maremma.
There are many stories '

I do not wish to say what hurts you ;
we will not speak of him ; but listen — for
yourself. This man is dear to you — dear, no
doubt, through his beauty and his misfortunes
— but what future will he give you, with
what misery does he not dower you ? Leave
him to me. I will busy myself with his
safety ; I will share his risk, I will be to him
as a brother — if you will leave him and go
where women can care for you, where your
youth may blossom blighted, where you
may be safe and happy without any sort
of fear. For me, if you will, I will swear never
to see you if only you-will let me place you
out of the reach of harm. What can your
life be as the mate of a felon hidden in a

hole ill the earth ? You do not seem to
understand what you have become ; but
think once of all I say for sake of the dead
woman who loved you.'

The words were wrung out of him almost
despite himself. All the night long he had
told himself that it was too late ; that she
chose her own fate and by it must abide.
All the night long he had argued with
himself that there was no other course for
him than to set his face northward and
banish her from his thoughts for ever. She
was no longer lovely to him in body or
mind ; she seemed to him to have the gloom
and taint of that Mantuann murder on her,
and of the sin and shame of Saturnino. She
was to him a Britomart, stripped and bound ;
a Penthesilea who was but her lover's slave,
and did not blush to be that humbled thing.
All his fancy and his faith which had grown
about and rooted themselves in her had
withered when she had put her hand in
Este's and led him out into the night of the
moorland. He could not tell that Este's lips
had never touched her own ; he could not
tell that the ' bit of sweet basil ' of a dead
woman's prayers had been as a magic
girdle of defence about her. He could

not tell. They dwelt there together, and
he had heard her say, ' Come ; oh my love,
come ! '

He had meant never to look upon her
face again ; he had thought of her as of a
creature quite as lost and dead as the
Mantuann woman was, in her grave beside
the reedy waters. Yet an irresistible longing
to snatch her away, to send her out into
light, peace, safety, to save her from the
touch of the hands that had the fetters of
the galleys on them, rose up in him stronger
than himself, and made him speak words
which he knew were as vain as ever had
been the call of Este on his murdered love.

She heard him without any movement,
and she answered him without emotion. She
did not understand that in his sight she had
lost all her Una's innocence, all her holiness
and purity of power.

I will never be angered against you,'
she said simply, ' because you saved us, and
were good. But to speak to me so is foolish.
It is of no use. I would not leave a fox
that needed me as he needs me, and you
could never be his friend ; there is no love
between you. The hole in the earth is all
the home I want ; we are happy in it. If

the soldiers come to take us, then we can die.
That is not so terrible.'

Thereon she turned, with a long look at
him, a look of reproach, and began to walk
down the arched corridor, open to the air,
which led out to the woods.

Sanctis put his hand up a moment to his
throat as if he were choked.

A certain emotion of disgust at what
seemed to him her lack of natural shame
mingled in him with veneration for her
fidelity, with passionate pain at her rejection.


'Wait one moment,' he said in broken
tones. ' Will you say one thing to him ? Say
it from me. I am a rich man, as I have
told you, and gold can do most things.
Go, and say to him from me that I will
compass his escape in some way ; I will
hire a vessel and a crew, and carry him in
safety away in the darkness of the night
(it will be possible on these lonely shores) if
he will trust himself to me. Are you loyal
enough to serve him so.^ to toll him this?
It will be your own separation from him ; it
is only fair to warn you of that. Are you
generous enough to take my message ? '

She grew very pale.

She covered her eyes a moment, and was
mute.

I do it for you, not for him,' continued
Sanctis. ' I should care nothing if he died
tomorrow ; but I will do my best to aid
him to escape if he will trust himself to me —
that I swear to you. Will you go and tell
hun so ? '

She was still silent ; so was he.

It will be possible if money enough be
spent on it ; and I will grudge nothing,' he
added, after a long pause. ' If he attribute
to me base motives, he must do so. I do
not care for his judgment. If he weill come,
I will aid him in every way that he may
wish.'

You would take him to your own land? '

Yes.'

She said nothing more for awhile ; she
rested against the marble column with lier
hand before her eyes still. Then suddenly
she looked up ; she was as pale as the
white marble by which she leaned.

I will go and tell him,' she said simply.
It is for him to choose.'

Without more words she turned and
began to traverse the loggia. At some little
distance she looked back and spoke :

The way is long ; I cannot be here till
tomorrow,' she said, as she paused.

Will you not have a mule, a horse ?
Will you not rest and eat ? '

No ; I will be here tomorrow.'

Then she went.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LOXIiOS : P1U>TKD Ii

8POTT18WOOUK And CO., XK\V-BTHF.ET BQUABB

ANU TAULIAllKM' BTKEKT

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 042839024

OF THE

U N IVLR5ITY

OF ILLINOIS



D374
v.3

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

APR 2 h 197*

APR 2*

in.

FOR CASH ONLY. By James Payn. 3 vols.

Crown 8vo.

THE MARTYRDOM OF MADELINE. By
Robert Buchanan. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin

McCarthy. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

A HEART'S PROBLEM. By CHARLES

Gibbon. 2 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tatler.

2 vols. Crown 8vo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

II gforu

By OUIDA

'AMOR CH' A NULLO AMATO AMAR Persona

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

Xonbon

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

IN MAREMMA.

CHAPTER XXXV.

Here have you been ? ; said Este
with anger and with doubt,
when she returned as the afternoon
shadows grew into the
gloom of evening, and the Ave Maria was
tolled or rung by all the belfries along the
hills or coast.

1 1 have been to see him,' said Musa
wearily. 4 We had one of us to thank him,
and you could not. I set out before
dawn. It is a long way. Let me rest buta
little and I will tell you all.'

She went into her own chamber, made
fast the stone door, bathed her face, changed

VOL. III. B

her clothes heavy with dew, and sat while
in the solitude, thinking.

What she was called upon to do cost her
all her courage.

When she had summoned up her
strength, and rested a little her tired limbs,
she approached Este. He did not look up
from the clay he worked on by the light of
the oil wick. He was angered, irritated,
suspicious.

She went to him and rested her hands
on the slab of nenfro.

6 1 could not bear that he should think
us thankless, so I went. He bade me give
you a message from him. If you will, he is
ready to buy or to hire a ship, and carry
you over the sea. If you like, you can go.
That is what he told me to tell you

Este started violently and let fall the
tool with which he worked.

He rose to his feet and breathed
quickly.

He — a stranger — would do this for me ?
Are you jesting ? It is impossible ! '

No ; it is true,' she said in the same
measured, low, grave voice in which she had
spoken the other words. 'He will do all
that, if you wish him. I am to go back and tell

him what you answer tomorrow. He says
that with gold all things can be done.'

4 That is true,' said Este bitterly. ' But
why should he do this for me ? Why ? '

I do not know. Because he is generous,
or because '

She hesitated ; she remembered that
Sanctis had said he would do this for her
sake.

A sudden light of fell suspicion flashed
on Este. His eyes lit up with it as a dark
night is lit up by blue fire.

1 And the price ? ' he said between his
teeth.

1 The price ? '

She did not understand him.

4 Do you not see ? Are you so simple ?
He will aid me to escape because he will
thus sever me from you. He is your lover,
or would be so. You are the price that he
will claim for freeing me.'

A dark red flush came over her face.

6 I do not think it is so,' she said firmly.
4 He is a generous man ; he is not a traitor.
He will save you if you choose.'

For the first moment his natural
impulse had been one of rapturous acceptance
of his liberty, of passionate ecstasy at

b -2

the mere thought of feeling the winds of
heaven upon him and beholding the width
of the sea before his eyes.

Then in another moment that rapture
passed, to be succeeded by the memory
that he who offered him this possibility
of escape was a stranger and an enemy ;
an enemy because a lover of Musa ; one
from whose hands he could not and
would not take a benefit. A darker suspicion
also came upon him. Was not this
only the northerner's scheme to sever him
and her? Was it not prompted by
jealousy rather than by generosity ?

He stood silent, with irresolute thoughts
chasing each other in tumult through his
mind.

He felt that he ought to leave her, to
take away from her the burden of his useless
existence, to lighten her of the weight and
the peril of his concealment there ; and yet
all the manhood and nobility of descent
that were in him told him that it would be
but a greater meanness to use the money
and the assistance of a man who loved her,
and buy his own liberty by the tacit
surrender and barter of herself.

The baser motive which Sanctis had

known he would attribute to the message
seemed the only one which could possibly
move a stranger to offer him a boon so immense,
to incur a risk so weighty ; and the
quick suspicion that lies in wait in every
Italian nature, for ever watchful and sleepless,
suggested to him darker reasons, crueller
hopes, that might spur on this foreigner to
share his danger and propose his flight. For
the crime of which he had been accused,
and for which he had been consigned to the
galleys, any other nation would give him up,
any other civilised country would be compelled
by the laws of extradition to deliver
him over to his own land to undergo his
sentence.

After the first moments of involuntary
gratitude and hope, he saw nothing in the
message of Maurice Sanctis but an intricate
and acute scheme to remove him for ever
from Musa and consign him with more or
less directness ultimately to the prisons
whence he had escaped.

1 Your friend forgets,' he said bitterly to
her as all these thoughts coursed through
his brain, ' or maybe rather he remembers
appositely, that I have been accused of and
condemned for murder. That is a crime to

which nowhere any land is lenient. Go
where I would I must hide myself in
secrecy and shame, or be given up, the first
time I walked abroad, to my own judges.
He is a man who knows the world. He
must know this very well. He would take
me over the sea, indeed ; but on the shores
whether of France, or Spain, or Greece, I
should be assailed by the law and seized as
soon as recognised. I am like your poor
playfellows the birds ; if I escaped from the
nets of my own land, it would be but to fall
into the traps set on a foreign coast. They
have hung this crime like a millstone about
my neck, and in whatever waters I may try
to swim it will always drown me, like a
doomed dog. He talks of saving me ! — he
cannot do it so long as this charge, this
sentence of me as an assassin, clings to me ;
and the law has fastened it and locked it
on me, and the world thinks the law cannot
err! Except on some desert island like to
Crusoe's, I can never be safe ; I can never
be sure that any night the hand of the law
may not rouse me up from my sleep and
shake me awake to my misery like the
wretched hunted rat I am ! '

'I do not think he knew that. Or at

least lie believed, I think, that he could
protect you some way. He is not false.'

Why are you concerned to praise
him ? '

To praise or to blame, I try and say
the thing I see. I do believe he spoke in
honesty. If I had not believed that, I
would not have brought the message to you

4 Cannot you see his aim P '

To save you ! I can see no other.'

'Who so blind as those who will not
see ! He would do this thing, even if he did
do it honestly, for the sheer sake of severing
you from me. I know I injure you, I hurt
you ; I know I have no right to let the
burden of my fate lie on you. Perhaps
long ago I should have gone out into the
light and called the soldiers sooner than
bring this peril and trouble upon you. No
doubt I have been a coward. No hunted
man is brave '

'Do not think of that. You know —
you know '

Her voice failed her ; it was not easy
to her to find words for what she felt.

\ I know ! — I know all your goodness
to me, though of late you have been hard
and cold '

No, no — never to you ! '

Yes. You are the Musoncella even tome.
That is because you do not love me !
Listen. This is the most cruel dilemma
you could place me in ; I must do what is
base, either going with him or remaining
by you. Why did you bring me his
message? Why did you put me in this
strait ? A man in my circumstances is like a
bird with a broken wing ; strive as he may
he cannot rise. You have but brought mea
torture the more. Take his arms back to
him ; I will owe him nothing. He sent
me this offer only that he might make me
feel the impotent thing I am. Whether
I owe my bread and my shelter to you or
to him, either way I am a beggar and
ashamed ! '

She heard him with infinite distress.

She could not follow the sudden changes
of his thoughts ; she did not see the injustice
of his upbraiding ; she was only stirred to
contrition at her own share in this message
which it had cost her so much to bear to
him. She was overwhelmed with grief that
she had seemed to put before him her own
service, her own danger, for a single instant.

His rapid facile speech and his more

subtle and cultured reasonings always bewildered
her and left her at a disadvantage
before him ; and she who had never feared
any living creature did fear him with the
tremulous and exquisite timidity of all great
love.

1 If, indeed,' he continued with passionate
emphasis, ' it is you who would have me goto
be rid of me '

< I ! '

Her eyes spoke all the rest,

'Yet I could never go — with his help
or by his means. He loves you. There is
no more doubt of that than of the earth's
turning. I am a felon, that is true ; but
once I was a free man and a noble, once I
was Luitbrand teste. I am not so low or
so base yet as to give you up in barter for
my freedom, or owe an hour's liberty to
one who envies you to me ! '

Musa shrank away, the hot colour
burned in her face ; she was astonished,
bewildered, confused.

I am sure there is no thought of me,'
she said with effort. ' I am sure he does
not think of me in thai way. He would aid
you because he is a good man ; but if you
do not choose to ao '

A smile lightened all her face, her
mouth trembled, her heart heaved.

6 I did tell you truthfully,' die murmured,
; because it was yours to judge. But
it was hard to do it — ah ! very hard.'

He looked at her with a quick glance.

8 Why will you always say you do not
love me ! ' he cried, with a little laugh of
gladness and of triumph ; the first laugh
that had left his lips since his mistress had
died in Mantua.

A shadow came back over her face.

'I never said it,' she answered him.
Only I cannot be what she was to you.
She is still there. What is death that it
should give us leave to be unfaithful ? The
dead are but gone before '

1 You need not think of her ! ' he answered
angrily. ' She would not have troubled her
soul for you unless she had killed you as her
lord killed her ! '

She was silent. Her instincts w r ere all
true, but to reason on them was beyond her.

4 1 am tired,' she said at length. ' I am
very tired. I want to rest and sleep. In
the morning I must go up to the mountains
and tell him that you stay : am I to take his
weapons ? '

'Yes. Tell him I will accept no < rift
from a man who loves yon ! '

He does not love me. Nor can I tell
him that.'

Take them back to him, though they
are the most precious things on earth. He
shall not despise me more than he does
already, and I will owe him nothing. Tell
him that whenever, if ever, I am sure you do
not love me, then I will rid you of the
burden of me without his help. That will
be easy enough. Gorgonaa is on the sea
yonder, and death is at hand in every lagoon
and pool.'

A shudder went over her.

'You know well that I love you,' she
said gravely ; then without more words she
went into her chamber.

With the dawn she rose, after a long
dreamless night's rest, and went out towards
the mountains. She put the pistols in her
girdle, no thought of disobedience to him
ever passed through her mind.

The dawn was red and very cold, the
geranium hue of the sky glowing through
the whiteness of mist as it had done the
previous day ; nothing is more beautiful than
these winter dawns, so rosy, so luminous,

yet so vaporous, with the morning star
shining clear and lustrous in the red of the
easterly heavens, and the clouds drifting like
smoke along the faces of the hills. All is so
still, all is so calm ; here and there out of the
mists looms a belfry or a tower or a group of
pines ; all the rest of the earth is hidden in
vapour which, as the sun rises higher and the
day-star is lost to sight, gradually disperses
and by noon has cleared away.

In these mists she walked and climbed,
her lamb's wool clothes about her close, her
heart light and her step swift.

At the foot of the mountain she saw a
figure standing beside a great gnarled olive,
many centuries old. Sanctis had comedown
so far and waited for her. As she
drew near he read the answer of Este on
her face.

He has refused ? ' he said ere she could
speak.

8 Yes. He says you forget that he is
accused of a crime for which he would be
nowhere more safe than he is here, since in
any land they would surrender him. He
bade me thank you and bring you back
your pistols. He cannot keep a gift he has
no power to return in kind.'

Sanctis said nothing.

He understood that Este had misconstrued
his motive and suspected his good
faith, and he had expected that it would be
so. He was not surprised ; only the man
seemed to him a coward and of poor spirit.

She said no more. She stood still,
awaiting some expression of his anger or his
regret, but he made none.

He has doubted me ; he is unwise,' he
said coldly at last. ' I would have done
well by him. There is nothing more to
say.'

1 You will take the pistols ? '

Nay, keep them yourself. The time
may come that you will want them.'

C I cannot keep them. It would vex
him. He said that you would despise
him '

Over the face of Sanctis went a passing
look of unutterable scorn.

i I do,' he said curtly ; ' one little thing
more or less can make no difference. Keep
the pistols. That ever he has burdened you
with need of them is what I despise.'

Since you insult him, I cannot keep
them.'

She laid them on the grass beside him.

He took no notice ; he was in no mood
to think of trifles.

'You, so brave, can you care for a
coward ? ' he said abruptly. c I thought
like went to like. Your boar of the forests
does not mate with the shrinking doe.'

He is not a coward. It is you who are
.unjust. He is guiltless, and he is hunted.
Even the boar flies from the dogs

'He little deserves your faithfulness.
Why will you not leave him ? )

4 1 would not leave a fox that had trusted
me in such a strait.'

4 It was not you who brought it on him,
and were he a man, indeed, he would walk
straight up to the gates of a guard-house
rather than he would bring on you the
peril, the secrecy, and the shamefulness he
does bring '

Those are only words. You said all
that yesterday. I will go now. I only
came to give you his answer.'

He did not ask her whether she had
given his message truthfully. Este might
and did doubt her often ; he never did so.
He understood her nature as Este never
could do, though he should live beside her
till age came to them both.

1 Come up to the house with me a
moment,' he said at last. ' I wish to write a
word to him ; and you need rest and food.'

I will not eat your bread. You speak
ill of him ; you call him a coward.'

'sand you ? Can you say he is not? '
Her face crimsoned with a more painful
shame than she would have felt at any fault
or folly cast to her own share.

8 He is hunted,' she said sadly, ' and he
has been accused of crime whilst he is guiltless.
Who would be brave that must needs
fly and hide, and fear every breath of thew
T ind that blows? The heron and the
hawk are both brave, yet they flee away.'

Come up to the house,' he said to her,
seeing that all speech was useless. They
went up the steep grass path under the
gnarled boughs of the old olive trees, and
left the pistols lying on the turf.

'Eat and rest,' he said to her as they
reached the marble court and corridor. He
had wine and food ready for her, but she
refused both.

4 1 brought some bread with me, and I
drank at a spring ; that is all I want,' she
said, and was steady in her refusal. He
was a friend to her, but lie was a foe to

Este. She would not break bread under his
roof. She had the old barbaric honour and
resentment in her.

He went to a table where an inkstand
stood, as he had signed at it a few days
before the deeds that made him master of
the castle and the lands of Proestanella. He
dipped a pen in the ink, then pausing,
turned and looked at her.

8 You are resolved to share his fate ? ' he
said abruptly. ' You will not change in
that?'

Her eyes looked at his fully and
fearlessly.

1 Have I not said twice, if he were buta
fox I would not leave him, since he has
trusted me ? '

1 And since he loves you ! '

She was silent. She did not choose to
speak of that to him.

c Such love ! ' said Sanctis, with an
impetuosity not natural to him, and a
passion of scorn for which all w r words were
too poor and small. ' Have you never
thought that it is your life you give away
almost before it has begun ? For you are so
young : and this disgrace you take on you
will last so long, so long ; last till you lie

in your grave, however old you be when
death comes to you. Why should you give
yourself to him ? Why should you not be
honestly loved in open day ? Why should
you taint yourself with guilt that is not
yours ? Who will look at you after years
passed in the solitude of those caves with a
felon? Who will ever believe in your innocence,
if innocent you still be ? You shut
the doors of fate upon yourself. You turn
your life of your own will into stone.
Nature has made you glorious gifts, and you
throw them all away like rotting leaves.
Think not that I speak for myself. I am
nothing to you. I know I never touch a
fibre of your heart or fancy. In all
likelihood you Avill never see my face
again. I speak for you ; it is for you
I sorrow. Better would it be for you to
love a man dead in his coffin, than to love
one whom at any hour the law may snatch
from you and send to fret his years away in
the horror of the prisons. When the law
takes him it Avill never yield him up to you ;
it will never let you rest your eyes on him
one moment ; it will take him and keep
him. Through his misfortune or his guilt, he
belongs to the law. He is not even a free

VOL. III. c

man. All he can bring you, all he has
brought to you. are a cruel burden, a
shameful secrecy. Why should you give him
this fidelity ? He can give you nothing but
disgrace '

He paused, suddenly conscious of the
futility of any such reasoning, of the utter
uselessness of attempting to make her
remember her own safety or her own
welfare.

8 1 thought you were proud,' he added
abruptly ; c I used to call you " icy flame," as
Shelley called the moon. Are you not too
proud to live thus — you ? '

She had listened peaceably, with no
sign of either emotion or anger except in the
drawing closer together of her straight dark
eyebrows, that looked as though a brush of
ink had finely drawn them.

Even now she did not fully gather all
his meaning, which his heart failed him to
cast at her in coarse words.

4 1 do not think of myself, and you need
not,' she said simply. 'While he needs
me, never will I leave him. If ever he
do not need me, then will I never trouble
him. I wish to go. Will you let me go
now? '

He glanced at her, and ground his teeth
together with a short, sharp sigh.

What was the use of words ?

They would stir her no more than the
spray of the sea stirred in a thousand years
the stones of the colossal walls of the
Pelagian along the coast.

He turned away his face, and leaned his
arms for a moment on the marble table
where the manuscripts and documents were,
and rested his head upon them. He was
struggling with himself to repress what it
rose to his lips to utter. He was tempted
for the moment to the cruelty that would
have said to her — ' You are the daughter
of Saturnino Mastarna.'

Soon he recovered his self-control, and
his resolve was taken. He drew a sheet of
paper that lay on a table near, wrote a few
lines upon it, folded the paper and sealed it.

Give that to him,' he said to her.

'You need not have closed it,' she said
with a little scorn. ' I should not have read
it ; it is not for me.'

The stern teaching of Joconda, blending
with the wayward honour that she inherited
from a race whose boast it had ever been
that they never broke a promise though

c 2

they often dealt a death-blow, had made her
grow up in an integrity of good faith that
was neither of her sex nor of her country.

Give it to him,' said Sanctis.

Then he leaned against one of the columns
of the corridor ; his face was ashy pale and
his breath came and went heavily ; he looked
away from her out over the landscape
that was still half covered with billowy
clouds that did not break and were transfixed
with sunbeams as with golden lances.

I will give it him,' she answered.
1 Farewell.'

He did not reply.

He leaned motionless against the marble
pillar and covered his eyes with his hand.
She went down the corridor with swift
elastic tread, and disappeared beyond the
farther archway amidst the grey foliage
of the old olive trees that covered the lull-side.
There were twelve long miles down
the mountains and over the meadows and
the moors to the tombs ; but she was sure
of foot and used to fatigue. She went as
lightly and as easily most of the way as the
fawns did or the kids. When she grew very
tired towards the close, she spurred on her
aching feet with the thought of Este. He

was alone; he was unhappy, perhaps
alarmed, at her absence.

She had the folded paper safe ; she never
thought once of looking at it.

Even so, Saturnino, oftentimes a monster
and a murderer, had once, without looking
at it, carried a bag of gold ducats from a
dying traveller to a woman in a distant city.
The traveller had trusted the robber, and
had said — ' It is all I have, and she whom
I love, without me will be penniless.'

HEN she brought to Este the
written lines, he read them in
silence. They said :

6 1 will give up my life to
the endeavour to prove your innocence, in
which, at your trial at Mantua, I, almost
alone, believed. If I be successful, I will
only ask one thing of you : when you are
free, do not forget your debt to her, and
justify her in the eyes of all men The
paper was signed in full : ' Maurice Axtox
Sanctis.'

Este read it twice ; then burnt it.
8 Does it anger you ? ' she asked.

No. I do not understand '

It embarrassed him ; lie could not comprehend.
Why should this man, who loved

her, seek to do him service ? The greater
nature, with its finer impulses, escaped him ;
he felt baffled and humiliated ; he groped in
the dark of dim conjecture after possible
motives which he conjured up one moment
to reject the next. Thinking long, again and
again, over the words written to him, lie
ended in disbelieving them. Vague 

O

picton was easier and more natural than
belief in instincts entirely unselfish and pure
of origin.

'Is he truly gone?' he said, looking at
her with eyes that doubted her.

Gone ? I do not know. He said that
lie was going. It does not matter ; he will
not come to us.'

4 You know that he loves you ? '

No ; that is not love ; he does not
speak as the Sicilian did '

Jealousy darted from the dreamful gaze
of Este ; it is a hooded snake that always
lies beneath the amorous smile of all Italian
eyes.

1 There is another ? ' he said with a
quick breath of rage and of suspicion.

She was vexed with herself that she had
spoken without thought.

4 It was only a sailor who wished me to

go with him and live on an island that he
calls Sicily,' she said, with a troubled confusion
in her thoughts. ' I told him I would
never go ; that it was folly. He will not
come back again.'

And I thought no eyes ever beheld
you ! ' he cried, with amazed anger. ' I
thought you hid unseen in the reeds and
the woods like the moor-hen. Are there
hunters for you as for her? Is the
Maremma one great net ? You should not
listen. Why do you listen ? If you loved
me, you would be blind and deaf. That is
love ; that only. In all the sounds of the
earth only to hear one voice '

She looked at him. She did not speak,
but in her humid sombre eyes there was
such infinite love, passing all power of
words, that he in turn was dumb.

His jealous petulance sank to silence,
abashed before that mute eloquence of a
single glance. The momentary fever of his
roused senses was stilled and chilled by the
immensity of sacrifice and heroism which
that one look recalled to him.

4 Ah, forgive me ! ' he murmured with
instant contrition ; and emotion which for the
time was true and profound brought quick

tears into his eyes as he stooped towards
her and leaned his lips upon her shining
curls.

She drew herself from him with the
same fear which at his touch, before, had
stirred and trembled in her dauntless nature;
a fear, vague, unintelligible to her, oppressive,
cruel.

1 Why are you so afraid F ' he murmured.
1 Since we love each other '

She put him away almost angrily. Her
eyes had perplexity and terror in them.

1 do not know why we should talk of
it. I have loved you — always, I suppose. I
have only thought of you, only of you, since
that first night I found you in the tombs.
But you — you have loved her. That cannot
change. If you were dead I should but
love you more.'

He shuddered as she spoke ; the ghost
of that woman slain in Mantua seemed to
him to glide in between this living thing and
him.

I think you would but love me better,'
he murmured, with some sense in himself of
shallowness, of littleness, of guilt. 'But I
am not like you ; I am not great or strong
in any way, and she — well, she is dead, and

she has brought on me a living death, and
in my misery you alone can give me any
joy. Dear, men are not faithful so ; why
will you speak of her? The grave has her ;
her lord has heaped up marble over her ;
she is nothing, nothing, as the fruit is that
rots and drops away. Why will you put
her ever between yourself and me ? We
live, you and I ; we are all alone, and the
earth is above us, and we have nothing todo
with it ; we are alone, and we love one
another !

His eyes poured their beseeching passion
into hers, his hands held her, his lips
approached her ; but once more she put him
away from her with a look upon her face
that he had never seen there.

c Ah, yes, I love you,' she said very low,
and her voice seemed to him to have the
very melody of the nightingales in it, so
infinite a caress did it give with these three
words. ' But we were happy — why did you
speak ? — it was better as we were. Do not
touch me ; it is ungenerous ; let me alone,
let us live as we have done. Never will I
forsake you ; but never must you make me
ashamed.'

Then she withdrew herself quickly from

him, and went to the place where Joconda's
coffin lay, even as she had done the night
before. She shut to the stone doors and
threw herself upon her knees, and
prayed passionately.

He dared not follow her.

He remained in the gloom of the
Lucumo's chamber, alone with his thoughts.

Before his vision stretched the pale, cold
body of his murdered mistress, with the
moonbeams finding out the death-wound in
her breast. Her voice that was for ever
silent seemed to rise and cry at his ear :

1 Our hours of joy cost me my life ; and
already hast thou forgotten ? '

Already he had forgotten ; rather had
done worse than forget ; had upbraided and
cursed her memory because of the fate that
through her had befallen him ; had done
his very uttermost to thrust away from him
remembrance of one in whom for three
long years he had seen his heaven, his
arbiter, his treasure, his supreme destiny.

A vague sense of shame stole on him.

Did he love this other now, he who in
the moonlit luminous Mantuann nights had
sworn his love eternal as the stars ?

Was this new-born passion love indeed ?

Or was it not the mere pulsation of reviving
senses, the mere covetousness of a thing
born only of the knowledge that others
coveted it ?

For months she had been beside him, and
been no more to him than a generous boy
who should have so defended and laboured
for him would have been. For months he
had seen her and heard her, and let her go
and come, with no perception of her sex or
of her youth, because his eyes were tired
and his heart was sick.

But all at once he saw, and his dulled
desires leaped from their ashes into fire,
because other men also saw, other men also
desired. But for them he would still have
let her go by him, the unnoticed Nausicaa
of his bitter Odyssey.

SHE winter heliotrope blossomed in
the grass and the black hellebore
bore its flowers as the year was
born ; the nights had frost that
melted with the sunrise, and were splendid
with the winter-lustre of the constellations;
out of sight on all the great ploughed plains
the corn was again as high as a man's hand ;
on the hills at dark the fires of the charcoal-burners
flamed with every foil of eve. It
was the time she always feared ; the time
when the sound of a foot on the grass made
her hide, when all Maremma was given upto
the northern labourers, when the animals
panted and trembled with terror, and the
wild birds flew in panic from the waters.
She had always hated and dreaded the

winter that brought aliens to the land and
death to the forest creatures.

Now she feared it with unceasing alarm.
Any day the father of Zirlo might speak to
a man from the mountains, or a shepherd
with his travel worn Lucchese sheep might
pull the briony from the entrance-stairs, and
oust her, and find the hunted fugitive, and
claim the gold at Orbetello. Any day, any
hour, she knew very well that this might
betide them ; and often all the night
through she listened outside the tombs, her
heart standing still with fear as the wild ducks
flew by screaming hoarsely, or the greater
owls beat the air with their broad wings,
or the fox crept homeward through the
rustling of the withered brake, a moorhen
or a coot in his mouth.

The Church feasts of winter followed on
one another.

Through the frosty air of the nights the
bells of many a distant hamlet came sonorous
though faint to her ears, ringing in the first
masses of the morn. On such feasts she had
been used to go up to the old dark church
with Joconda and ask a blessing on the year ;
but it seemed to her now that she asked
such blessing better, kneeling down where

the walls of the thick-growing bay enclosed
her, and the turtle-dove, and the partridge
and the friendly blackbird flitted by her as
she prayed to heaven in her vague trustfulness
which was rather hope than faith.

1 Keep him safely ! ' was the perpetual
burden of her prayer.

4 Yet what is the use ? ' she would think
wistfully as she rose from her knees and
heard some distant report of a gun breaking
the frosted stillness of the early morning.
God cannot care ; He lets the birds be
netted and the little gentle hare be torn
with shot. They are His creatures as much
as we, and He gives them over to make the
wicked sport of men.'

No one cared ; the terrible, barren,
acrid truth, that science trumpets abroad as
though it were some new-found joy, touched
her ignorance with its desolating despair.
No one cared. Life was only sustained by
death. The harmless and lovely children of
the air and of the moor were given over,
year after year, century after century, to
the bestial play and the ferocious appetites
of men. The wondrous beauty of the
earth renewed itself only to be the scene of
endless suffering, of interminable torture.

The human tyrant, without pity, greedy as a
child, more brutal than the tiger in his
cruelty, had all his way upon the innocent
races to which he begrudged a tuft of reeds,
a palm's breadth of moss or sand. The
slaughter, the misery, the injustice, renewed
themselves as the greenness of the world
did. No one cared. There was no voice
upon the blood-stained waters. There was
no rebuke from the offended heavens. To
all prayer or pain there was eternal silence
as the sole reply.

HE words of Sanctis haunted her.
1? Any day, he had said, any

*3 day the law might come and
snatch him from her and take
him where never should she look on his face
again. She had always known this ; but
spoken by him it took shape and substance
as it had never done before. When she
went into Telamone with her work and sold
it to return with meat and wine, she saw
indeed that the paper pasted on the wall by
the State concerning his escape had rotted
away under rainy weather and had not this
time been replaced. Perhaps, she thought,
the law had forgotten him. The law, no
vol,, in. L)

doubt, had as many in its hold as the bird-catchers
had songsters in their nets.

Yet she dared not hope this ; he said that
it was impossible he could be pardoned, that
his sentence, deemed a just one by his native
city, was one which all other nations also
would deem just. Any day, any soldier
who sauntered down the grass-grown moles,
any carabineer riding along the solitary
shores, might hear some story from a shepherd,
or a hunter, or a charcoal-burner,
some hint that might awaken suspicion and
bring mounted troopers over the moors and
the gleam of gun-barrels amongst the thickets
of briar rose and myrtle.

He, too, grew more irritable at his fate.
What Sanctis had written to him, although
he disbelieved it utterly, yet had aroused in
him a faint hope, a faint sense of some
possible eventual deliverance which made in
the present his restlessness greater, his
captivity almost more unbearable. One
man had believed him innocent of the crime
laid to him. Might he not find other men
who believed also ?

To Este it had always seemed so incredible
that they had suspected him ; that
they had overlooked the wrongs received

at his hands by the jealous husband ;
that they had been so readily deceived by
the affected grief of her lord and by the
marble mausoleum that he had built to
her.

'Why should I have killed her? She
loved me always. Him she betrayed forme,'
he had said again and again to his
counsel in Mantua. But none would see it
so ; even his counsel, affecting to believe,
had doubted, and had seen a young lover's
jealousy, rather than an aged husband's
vengeance, in that wound by the three-edged
dagger.

CO

He could not now credit the promise of
the stranger to strive for a justice to him
that his native city had denied to him ; yet
the mere fancy of it moved him to a fitful
longing and despair that were as a fever to
him. One man believed him : that was so
much !

As the oil lamp burning at night upon
the slab of nenfro only made blacker the
dense gloom all around, so this promise,
which he disbelieved in, yet shed a ray of
hope against hope upon him which only
made the darkness and emptiness of his
imprisoned life seem worse to him.

D 2

Silence and constraint, tco, parted him
and Musa. Anger on his side and fear on
hers made a wall between them.

The words that had been said could not
be unsaid. The magic syllable had been
spoken which broke up for evermore their
simple and innocent good-fellowship.

He had learned that other men found
her fair ; she had learned that he also could
thus regard her. He was angered at what
seemed to him her coldness and her
obstinacy ; she was troubled at his persistence
and his irritation. The frank, familiar
intercourse of the past was over for ever ;
constraint and irritability came into their
communion ; silence and timidity grew up
like a barrier between them, builded by
invisible hands.

A kind of reverence came to him for
this daring and sinless nature, which was so
unlike his own ; vaguely he feared her as in
another way she feared him. Sometimes,
when he watched her from the entrance-way
come across the moors, with the sunbeams
about her head and the shadows
about her feet, old classic fancies came to-him
as they had come to Sanctis, and she
seemed to him like a young Immortal for

whom all mortal love were too fleeting and
profane.

But this mood lasted but a brief space
with him ; there soon rose up in him the
lower impulses, the less noble instincts.
She was beautiful as any forest creature, all
grace and vigour and harmonious movement,
could be ; and she had said that she
loved him, and yet he had not even touched
her cheek with his !

A sombre auger brooded perpetually in
him. He ceased to remember all he owed
to her ; he was absorbed in the sense of all
that she denied him.

4 1 ask for bread and you give me a
stone,' he said bitterly to her one day, in
that tone which always hurt her, confused
her, and filled her with a dumb pain like
that of an animal punished cruelly for no
fault of which it is conscious.

Sometimes, in her vague terror of this
potent influence which stole the strength out
of her nature and the peace out of her heart,
she almost longed to leave him, to run away
into shelter and solitude as she had fled
from the hunters and the shepherds.

But it would have been a cowardice,
and in her sight therefore a crime.

Without her, what would become of
him ? How could he, who durst not venture
into the light of day, who durst scarce creep
out at night for a breath of air, maintain
himself by seeking from the woods and
moors what she sought for him ? Without
her he must starve, sink into absolute
wretchedness, die most likely like a hunted
beast walled up in a cave. Without her,
the only link that held him amongst living
men would be broken, the only kind of
maintenance and of repose possible to his
fate would be snatched from him. She had
said, and said truly, to Sanctis that she
would not leave in such a strait a fox that
had trusted her.

He, meanwhile, thought her cold, not
choosing to understand the conflict in her of
her innate independence, courage, and innocence
with the new and subtle and merciless
passion which had invaded and dominated
all her existence. In his experience,
women drank in love as flowers drink the
dews and sunbeams ; he did not choose to
acknowledge that here was a stronger
nature than his own, or any he had ever
known, which could not bend and accept the
yoke of passion and obedience without

instinctive revolt against its own subjugation.


4 You do not love me ! was all lie would
say, and even whilst he cast the reproach
against her he knew very well that not thus
would any of his light-won loves have
served him and defended him ; not thus
would Donna Aloysia have dwelt content in
the twilight of the sepulchres and the gloom
of his own fate. He was thankless, unjust,
exacting, tyrannical, as love oftener is ; and
his love was but the mere froth and fume of
jealousy and sensual covetousness, and so
lacked all higher aim or element, lacked all
palliative of tenderness.

All the purer gold of his nature had been
burned out of him under the inactivity and
torment he had suffered, and little but the
dross remained. Men in the Thebaid might
gather strength and purity and spirituality
from the desert-silence ; but to him the endless
lonely hours, the dull heavy hopelessness,
the carling sense of perpetual danger, were
on his temper like a block of stone upon
turf; ail grew barren under the continuous
pressure and the exclusion of all light and
dew.

And in this misery of his there was only

one joy near him possible to him, and this
she withdrew out of his reach and denied
him. He began to think her cruel, as he
called her. All that she did for him, all
that she endured for him, all that she refused
for his sake, grew as nothing. She would
not let him take that ' bit of sweet basil '
which was on her breast.

Yet he had conscience enough in him to
know that he was thankless, and sought to
repay good with ill ; he had the pride in
him that is born of gentle blood ; he
hesitated to overcome by surprise, or solicitation,
the resistance that he met with when
he spoke of love.

She grew greater in his sight, holier, at
once more womanlike and more divine.
Her reserve, her proud timidity, her superb
innocence, gave her a power over him she
had not had before. When she was absent
he missed her, not only as a man misses his
dog, but as a lover misses what is the breath
of life to him. And her absence was longer
and more frequent than even her daily work
had before necessitated. She was oftentimes
no further away than the nearest group of
trees, watching as she worked for any sound
or sight of danger to him ; but to him, shut

in the gloom of the tombs, she was as
utterly away when only a few yards distant
as when out upon the sea or in some seashore
town. Never dared he rise and go and
scan the horizon to watch her coming. She
was absent ; that was all he knew. He, too,
though he had read nothing of the poet
drowned down northward by Mercia, began
to find her 4 icy flame.'

The love of her, at first mere jealous
fuming, began at once to chill and to consume
him.

4 Why are you so cruel ? ' he muttered
once, as he stayed her as she passed by
him. She had some yellow crocuses in
her hands ; she was going to put them
in a vase of water before Joconda's
coffin.

4 Are those in the fields already ? ' he
said, touching them. 4 Is it another year,
then?*

4 Yes. Do you forget ? I told you
February had come.'

4 Did you ? What is it to me ? Here, all
months are alike. Shipwrecked men lose
count of time.'

He held her hand with the crocuses in it
still within his own, his fingers on her wrist.

If you loved me, then I would count
the sunsets ! ' he murmured.

A blush went over her face ; she was
silent. With her other hand she loosened
his fingers.

Why are you so harsh ? ' he said
angrily. ' We who are so poor, we might
be rich in love. Why are you so
cold ? '

You promised that I should be sacred
to you,' she said with a timid protest,
scarcely daring to recall to him the first
hours of his asylum there, lest in so doing
she should seem to make of his shelter a
debt.

'What is more sacred than what we
love ? ' he murmured, with the music in his
voice which stole all the strength out of her
and lulled to drowsy gladness all her vague
unrest.

Then with a sudden pang of memory
she said to him :

t And what is it that you love ? Not me.
If you were free tomorrow, would you
stay, of your own will ? '

He was silent.

4 We would go away together,' he said,
after a pause. ' Go away as the swallows

you watch for, go. Ah J why do you speak
of the impossible ! '

w If you did love me indeed* she said,
wistfully and gravely, ' this place would be
to you more than all the palaces of earth.
If they offered me a palace such as you
tell me of, I would not go to it, for we
met here*

He sighed with impatience and regret.

So once had been dear to him the grass-grown
streets, the reed-filled waters, the
melancholy ways, of ruined Mantua, because
there at evening-time, when the white gnats
came in clouds about the old bronze fatality
the lamp-light, behind a grated casement,
he had seen one woman's face.

That had been love ; even though it
were dead now, killed with the same dagger*
thrust that had killed her.

You are free to walk abroad,'
lie said, with vexed impatience ' Were
you a prisoner as I have been, and
as I am, you would know that one
curses one's prison, and would curse it
though its walls were alabaster and its bars
were gold. I am not thankless to th
tombs, but they are tombs ; and in them I
am buried, alive, as the Etruscans were

buried, dead. Do ever you think of the
future ? I do, when I dare, and it would
soon make me mad if I thought long. Shall
we live here together, you and I, till we are
old ? — here, in the twilight, like two bats ?
Shall we never breathe without fear ? shall
we never hear an owl hoot without dread ?
Shall we see the seasons come and go, and
never count the year by more than that ?
Shall I hear the sheep scamper above my
head, and for ever envy them that they can
trot at will amongst the thyme ? Shall I
watch age come upon your face, and you
watch it in mine, and have no other record
'of time than the white hairs that come upon
our heads? Shall we grow stupid or desperate,
you and I, in all those years ? Shall
we lose our wits, living like this, shut away
from all the world ? Will the day come
when we shall curse each other as I have
lived to curse Aloysia ? '

His passionate utterance broke down ;
the dread and horror of his own visions
overcame him ; his eyes grew fixed and
glazed as if he saw painted on the walls the
shadow of those ghastly endless years to
come ?

She said nothing.

rain seemed to ache through her heart
as if some hard hand closed on and bruised
it. If lie had loved her indeed, the rocky
prison would have smiled to him with
heaven's sunshine ; the world of men would
have been as nought ; the years would have
been blent in one long dream without
awaking once. Herself she would have
asked no better thing than this ; to live thus
always, hidden from human sight, undivided
by any envious claim, alone in the soft twilight
of this undisputed home, together, until
age or death should find them both and
they would rest for ever here, with the
myrtle blossoms dropping on the rock above,
and the wild-birds calling under the wild
olive. She thought that even dead she
would hear the murmur of the cushat and
the woodlark's hymn.

He saw the softness come into her gaze,
the sigh come upon her lips.

Ah, why will you not give me love at
least! ' he cried. 'We should snatch some
joy at least from fate ! '

He had that skill which always made her
feel that she herself had erred.

Was she wrong to shrink away when he
spoke thus ? Was he not so unhappy that

she ought to give him any peace she could ?
Ought she not to put her arms about his
throat and kiss him on the eyes ?

She doubted ; she wondered ; she was
dissatisfied and ashamed at herself.

So Ions ago, when I was but a child,'
she said timidly, ' Joconda made me
promise — I did not know well what she
meant — that no man's hand should touch me
without the blessing of God upon it. Now
I do know : you and I cannot go up to any
house of God in the open day as others can do
when they will ; and I must keep my word
to her, she is not living to release me.'

He looked at her askance in surprise,
chagrin, annoyance, and perplexity.

Must these dead souls, so still and helpless,
with the lids of their coffins shut down
on them, come thus perpetually, one or
another, betwixt himself and her ? And
could she think that, were he free to walk
abroad in open day, it was to take the way
to the house of God that his steps would
turn with her ?

A sombre irritation rose up in him.

Could he never pluck it out, this ' bit of
sweet basil ' that was her superstition and
defence ?

4 You do not love me,' lie said with a
great dullness in his voice that sank on her
heart like ice. ' Love does not reason so.
It sees no past, because it knows it never
lived before. Such ignorant vows women
have taken in all acres, and in all acres have
broken them for men. You cling to yours
because you do not love me. Call the
Sicilian back, or Sanctis. They can go out
in daylight where you will.'

The injustice was so keenly cruel, so
brutal in its very quietude, that it seemed to
her to cut her very heart in two as with a
knife. With the subtle adroit skill of
unscrupulous argument, he turned her
truthfulness and her simplicity against her,
and made her feel as though in some way
she had sinned to him.

I want nothing with them ; I have sent
them away,' she said, whilst the emotion she
repressed made the veins of her throat swell
with the sob she checked lest it should weary
him. ' Why cannot we live as we have lived ?
We were so happy so ; now you are always
angered, always reproaching me. How can
you doubt me? Since that midsummer
night you came here, I have had no other
thought than you.'

Those are words,' said Este with
impatience. ' Kiss me once, and I will
believe ?

The colour came up over her throat and
cheeks and brow ; a tremor went over her.

I promised her, and she is dead,' she
said wistfully, while her voice was low and
grave.

He flung himself away from her in wayward
wrath.

You place an old lifeless hag before me,
and you dare to say you love me ! ' he cried
with a child's petulance and a man's furious
injustice.

You hurt me ! ' she murmured, with an
unconscious cry of pain. He wounded her,
stung her, bewildered her, tortured her ; and
yet she did not turn on him. She only
vaguely felt that she had been to blame,
and that he was too harsh in punishment
and hurt her. *

Este did not answer.

He did not even look at her ; he picked
up his rude modelling tools and set a mass
of the river clay on the slab of nenfro where
he usually worked.

She watched him awhile, in wistful
silence, as a dog chastised watches jets

master. Receiving no word, no sign, no
glance, she took her billhook from its comer
and a coil of cord, and went out into the
air to go into the thickets and cut heath
and broom for firing.

4 Which of your lovers waits for you on
the moors today?' he cried to her with
bitterness and irritation.

1 Lovers I have none,' she said, as she
paused in the entrance-place and looked
back at him. l You I love with all my
soul — but you do not understand.'

1 Nor you,' he said with wrath. ' You
think a living man can be loved as you love
a swathed mummy in her coffin. You have
lived in these stone graves till you are as
cold as they. You think the blood in one's
veins is water '

A sigh quivered all through her ; the
hot blush came on her face again, half in
shame and half in anger.

Did he call her cold — she in whose veins
the blood was lava ?

Cold ! Who would do for him what she
would do ? who would give her life for him
as she would give it, fighting for him as the
stork and the eagle fight for their nest in the
air?

VOL. III. E

6 Maybe that I am what you think,' she
said with some bitterness. ' They call me
the Musoncella.'

He let her go without more effort to
detain her. She went out amidst the wild
olive and myrtle and arbutus, and worked
hard in the clear winter air, as the bittern
sent his loud love-call over the water of the
pool, and the brown partridge flitted from
under the rosemary.

As she cut the withered shrubs and
made them up in bundles, the tears she
would not shed before him fell upon the
billhook and the heath, and dimmed for her
all the purple shadows of the moors and
the sapphire heights of the enclosing mountains.


Where the bittern was calling near at
hand, there was a broad sheet of water set
within a frame of olive and willow and
sedge : a shining steel-grey pond, reflecting
on its bosom the shapes of the clouds and
the blue of the heavens.

In this pond the bos butor stood sending
his long deep call to his mate, stooping his
head down into the water and spouting its
spray into the air as he uttered his continuous
music. The female listened with

closed eyes and body gently swaying above
the yellow reeds, hilled to delight by the
sonorous chant that he was intoning, in her
honour and for her wooing, over those solitary
shallows.

The strange sound came to the human
creature, to whom love was so perplexed and
bitter-sweet a thing ; she rested from her
work with her hand upon her hip and the
dry heath about her ; she looked along the
grey screen of the willow and olive bough,
and saw the wild bird of the marshes and his
mate yet union.

They were happy together there amidst
the glancing water and the winter boughs.
Love was the law of life, the gift and
glory of all nature. Why not for her?
Why not?

She knew so little of it.

She scarcely yet understood what she
felt herself, and still less what he felt. To
her innocence, his anger was unintelligible ;
to her ignorance, their life as it had been
seemed so sweet that she could not comprehend
why it only filled him with dissatisfaction
and discontent. Herself, she would
have asked no better than to live on ^<> until
death should find them out together.

i: -2

'• ffi !^of«iuHo»

Tenderness had awakened in her long-before
passion. For many a month it was asa
devoted sister that she loved him ; and
only slowly and at intervals did the deeper,
hotter springs of life stir in her ; beside
there was always, on her, like the cold and
heavy hand of a dead thing, the memory of
what he had loved in Mantua.

To the concentrated and intense nature
which so many hours of solitude and so
much silent unuttered thought had made
even graver and more passionate than it was
by instinct, it seemed impossible that a
woman he had adored should have passed
out of his life because death had taken her.
The terrible might and melancholy of that
story, which had thrilled on her ear the first
night she heard it told, and sunk into her
very heart as she had listened, weighed
on her still. He might forget ; she could
not.

That dagger-stroke in Mantua seemed to
her to unite him with that dead woman in
indissoluble union.

She did not know that tragedies drift
out of the memories of men as wrecked
ships sink from sight under a rising tide ;
she did not know that ' violent delights



have violent endings,' and that passion is not
always love, nor even love always remembrance.
She did not know that over a
man's soul the sirocco of the senses blows
madly for a day, and then often dies down
and leaves but dust behind it.

HE day following she said to
him :

8 There is no more flour and
there is no more wine ; I must
go to Telamone. I have a roll of cloth
that I have spun to sell. Shall I go today
? '

He looked at her in doubt.
Do you go to meet the Sicilian sailor ? '
he said bitterly, and was ashamed of himself
as he did soc

It is not fair to say so to me,' she
answered him patiently. ' Though I did
meet him, what would it matter? . I have
no eyes that see him. Wherever I go it
is you who go with me. You know that.'

1 I know I am not worthy of your
answer ! ' he said with instant repentance.

'It is but the truth she said simply,
As for the sailor, I think he is far away,
by this time. Shall I go to Telamone today?'


'Do as you wish ; you are wiser than I.'
I must lake the boat if I go ; I cannot
carry the cloth all the way by land. Pray,
pray be prudent. Do not burn a fire by da r ,
the smoke might be seen ; it passes upward
through that hole in the rock ; I saw it
myself yesterday. If a shepherd saw, he
might come.'

'Put the fire out, if it trouble you.'
Without it you are cold, I know ;
down here it is cold, though above the sun
is so hot. Ah, that you could but see the
light'

I see it through your eyes as blind men
do by eyes they love.'

She was silent ; she busied herself in
getting ready the strong linen cloth she had
spun in the winter, and in getting ready also
the simple meal that he would require in
her absence. For herself a crust of bread
taken with her was enough.

'The first nightingales sang last night,'
she said. ' Did you hear them ? '

No ; do you know what 1 hear when I

sleep or lie awake at night? ^1 hear your
voice always, saying cruel things.'

She coloured and did not answer
him.

Was she cruel ? — and to him ?

It was early day, the sun had but just
come over the mountains ; there was a loud
piping and trilling of birds above ground
amongst the myrtle and olive.

She was ready to go ; she had the cloth
rolled in a bale, which she would carry on
her shoulder. She looked at him wistfully ;
a great longing came over her to drop down
at his feet and bury her face upon his knees
and cry out to him — c I am thy servant, thy
dog, thy love ! '

But she was haunted by the memory of
the dead Mantuann woman, and by the remembered
words of Joconda ; she restrained
the passion of tenderness that welled up in
her as the moment of her own departure
drew nigh. She placed before him all that
he might need during the day, and without
meeting his eyes said to him : ' Farewell
for a little while. Be careful, oh I pray
you ! Be careful.'

c Why should I take any care ? ' he said
bitterly. ' If we are for ever to live thus,

Gorgon a will be less pain to me than where
yon are.'

She gave a quick sigh, and without
answer took up the bale of homespun cloth
and mounted the steps of the entrance.

When she parted the boughs and emerged
into the open air the glory of a dazzling
morning was sparkling all around heron
the brimming waters and the dewy
earth.

A hare was peacefully nibbling at the
grass ; a jay was swaying on a bough and
meditating his own homeward flight ; further
away in the distance, against the light, there
was a pretty group of a mare and two foals ;
down in the dark green rosemary bushes at
her feet a pair of green grosbeak, hardly
to be told from the shrub, were pecking in
play at one another.

If only he could come into the air ! ' she
thought with passionate pain.

What use are the most loving eyes of
others to. the blind shut in the impenetrable
darkness of their own calamity ?

She could do for him what the sister,
or wife, or daughter does for the blind man ;
she could watch for peril for him, bring
him food, labour that he should live ; but

she could not lead him from the gloom up
into the light, she could not make him
rejoice in the green world that was renewing
its youth.

An impulse of longing to look on him
once more made her retrace her steps, and
made her kneel, leaning down to look
through that cleft in the rock roof of the
tomb which she had made in the earliest
days of her occupation of the tombs,
that by its orifice the smoke of her wood
fire might escape.

Through the fissure she saw straight
down into the chamber where she had
first found the golden warrior on his bier.
She saw Este as he sat in the stone
chair once sculptured there for visitants
to the dead. His body was bent, his arms
lay outstretched on the table of nenfro
that held his modelling tools, his head was
bowed down on them ; his whole attitude
expressed the unnerved, weary, hopeless
dejection of a man to whom life was valueless.


The sight of him thus smote her as if
with a blow. He called her cruel : was she
in truth cruel? Was she cruel as one who
denies water to a chained dog, air to a

caged eagle? Did she indued give him a
stone when he craved bread ?

A vague, heavy sense of wrong done by
her to him went with her over the broad
moors and meadows, and along the shining
sands of the shores.

She got her boat out and pushed it into
the water and loosened her little sail.

The wind was favourable to her, and
the boat danced buoyantly on its southward
way. But her heart was heavy as lead.

When the swell of the Sasso Scritto
rose up between her and her moors, she felt
as if she had bade him farewell for ever.

For once she had no eyes for the gannets
Gathering above the sea for their northward
flight, for the rock-martins flying along the
face of the cliff, for the sandpipers tripping
amongst the samphire of the shore, for the
curlews screaming above the estuary.

She had told him the truth.

She only saw him wherever she went.

Xo one would buy her cloth at any
reasonable price at Telainone ; she knew
what she ought to get for it, and was unwilling
to sell it for too little. Most of the
people there were poor, and the few who
were not so were mean. She saw nothing

to do but to try at Orbetello. The wind
was all in her favour, and the sea, though
boisterous, was no stormier than pleased her,
sea-gull as she had been called so long.

The boat beneath her, as it rose and sank
and leaped the crests of this wave and of
that, was to her as the horse is to the fearless
rider. The sea was so familiar to her ;
she was at home upon it as any one of the
storm swallows after which they had named
her in her babyhood.

The red and green of the tufa land, the
deep shadows of the pine-woods, the pale
aloe dotted shores, the distant mountains
amethyst and purple as the mists cleared
from them, flew by her rapidly ; a belt of
seething, wind-blown, sunny water flashing
and heaving between herself and them.

At Orbetello she could sell her linen,
not over well but at a fairly decent price.

She rested a little, ate her bread, and
bought for a small bronze coin a plateful of
cooked rice ; then she purchased the wine
and the flour she needed at home, and put
the rest of the money she had earned safely
away in the breast of her tunic.

There did not remain much, for wine
was dear in wingless Maremma. She paid a

visit of gratitude to the old chemist, and took
him a basket of rare mushrooms, and told
him that when the time came to gather herbs
she would not forget her promise.

■ You have a face that remembers,' said
the old man, pleased.

4 How can anyone forget ? ' said Musa.
It was that which seemed to her strange.
Neither benefit nor wrong would have been
ever written in sand with her. Though he
had been dying before her, never would, she
have forgiven Zirlo.

4 Did the sick man recover ? ' the old
chemist asked.

1 Yes ; it was your cordials that saved
him. That is why I came now to thank
you.'

4 And does he marry you, this springtime
? ' said the old man, with good-humoured
pleasantry.

1 Ah, no ! ' cried Musa quickly, with a
colour deep as the dark winter rose on her
face.

She went out of his pharmacy without
bidding him good-day. The thoughtless
question had gone like a knife into her
heart.

That was what Joconda had meant when

she had made her swear on her Maddening.


Laden with the flasks of wine and oil
and the little sack of flour, she took her way
to the quay ; and as she went almost ran
against an old lean man with a pipe in his
month.

4 Eh, la Delia ! ' stammered Andreino in
sad fright.

Is it yon ? ' said Mensa with contempt
in her voice. ' Did they not tear yon to
pieces amongst them, squabbling for the
money in the pitcher ? '

Aye, aye, almost they did, the greedy
souls,' said Andreino quaking. ' And where
have you been all this while ? You know I
always loved you. I did hear that you were
in service somewhere upon the mountains ;
but I said to them, so handsome a wench,
and so handy with a boat, have the coaster

lads no eyes '

I have found a home and work yonder
said Musa, cutting short his compliments,
with a sign of her head as she spoke towards
the westward. ' As for you, I do not
forget that you used to lend me your boat
when I w r as a child. But you were weak
and miserable when those women raged ?

'Ob, my dear, my wife was amongst
them ; if you had come quietly to us instead
of dashing that pitcher down and wasting all

that fair money '

'Oh, you would have loved me as long as
the money had lasted; said Mensa with a curt
sarcasm. 'So would any one of them; you
are not alone there.'

'But you have got money now? ' he said
with an envious glance at the flasks she
carried.

'These are not for myself,' she answered.
1 And how does on the smuggling ? Has
the coastguard never vet found out that
closet of yours behind the olive-wood
Tieta?'

Oh now, my sweet child, be quiet ! '
began the old man trembling. ' There are
guards and soldiers all about, and never did
I do you any harm, but lent you my boat and
gave you pretty shells, and would have welcomed
you always.'

'You are safe with me, Andreino, and
your secrets too,' she said with a little laugh
as she bade him good-morrow and went
down towards the quay. lie would let her
alone, she thought, now that he knew she
could bite.

The old man hobbled after her and
touched her on the arm.

'You were always running about overall
the wild places,' he said timidly. ' Did
ever you see that young man the law is
looking for always? The placards have
been down a long time, the rains worked
havoc with them, but no doubt you will
have read them, and there is a pretty
penny to be made that way, and if you
should have ever seen him '

There is a pretty penny to be made, too,
by telling how tobacco is run in at Santa
Tarsilla,' she answered him calmly. ' I am
no informer, you know that ; do not you
begin to be one in your old age. If the
young man escaped the fever of the marshes,
surely men may let him live in peace whereever
he be ; such peace as he can have with
a price upon his head.'

Who is your lover that has been ill ? '
murmured Andreino in wheedling, insinuating
tones as though he were caressing her.
It was the merest guess with him, made in
shrewd cunning.

His eyes, keen still to mark such things
though he was nigh ninety years old, saw
the blood go away from the peach-like cheek

that the sun and the air had kissed all her
years through. Her very heart seemed to
stand still in her terror. But she had courage
and presence of mind ; she looked the
old rogue full in the eyes.

fc If a lover I have, what is that to you ?
We do not ask you for bit or sup, Andreino.
You used to know me well. Remember how
I bit the hand of the man that struck my
dog. My dog is dead, but my blood is alive.'

She looked at him all the while full and
sternly in the face, and the old man was
frightened.

I meant but a jest,' he mumbled. ' For
sure you are the same as you were, with your
terrible eyes and your terrible tongue ; but
your friend you know I always was, and
always will be, my dear.'

That is well,' said Musa carelessly,
hiding the apprehension that sickened her
as she thought of the hand of the law held
out with the blood-money, and the greedy
hand of this old man stretched out to take it.
If Andreino ever knew, the law would know
also before the day was an hour older.

She left [him and gained her boat and
put her purchases in it, and let fly the
little sail. Andreino stood watching by

VOL. III. f

the sea-wall. To give him a false scent she
steered south-westward for a mile or two,
with the black peaks of the Argentaro between
her and home. Then, when she was
distant enough for none to be able to tell
hers from the many other similar boats
that were out on the sea that day, she
tacked and put her little vessel about, and
repassed the rocks of Orbetello standing
herself well out to windward, so that from
the mole of the town her sail looked no
bigger than a white speck against heavy
leaden-coloured clouds that were drifting
up slowly under the pressure of a strong
cold wind.

But to put about thus, and place that
square mile and more of heaving water
between Orbetello and herself, had taken
several hours ; the day was advancing, and
the sun was low, as she came once more
on the northerly tack and began to steer to
the north-east. She was too good a sailor
not to guess the meaning in the whistle of
the wind and the steely hue of the great
banks of clouds that rose higher and higher
over the face of the sky. Far away, where
the Atlantic races through the Straits of
Gibraltar and the waves of Biscay lash the

Spanish coast, a sea-storm was raging already,
and coursing like a greyhound to
reach and overtake the blue Ligurian waters.

Even if she had not known what soon
would come by the look of the sky and the
feel of the waves, she would have known it
by the way in which the big ships in the
offing spread every stitch of canvas in the
effort to make a port before the tempest
should be upon them, and the way in which
the little lateen craft came running: in from
every point of the compass, fishermen knowing
that k the devil would take the hindmost.'


Her own boat flew like a curlew, for the
change in the wind favoured her, but though
it sprang from wave to wave and was as
buoyant as any cork Musa knew her own
danger very well. Her boat was but as a
nautilus-shell that would soon be tossed and
whirled in a typhoon. To reach her own
shore would be hard ; to land might prove
impossible. She reproached herself bitterly
that she had not read more wisely the look
of the skies at daybreak ; but even wary and
otherwise fishermen make such mistakes
at times, and have the blackness of the
tempest and the howling hurricane down on

F 2

them, and their vessel keel upward in the
boiling surf, ere they can cry out one single
prayer to the Mother of mariners.

Sometimes, she knew, out of a score
of feluccas that went out at sunrise blithe
and busy as a swarm of swallows, five or six
only would come home to the mole next
morning. The hungry libeccio would have
swallowed up the rest:

The storm was not yet down, but made
itself felt in the chill of the air, in the force of
the gusts, which fell like blows, in the swirl and
surge of the waves, in sunshine so blue, now
yellowish-white and leaden-grey. The little
boat still flew, elastic and easy, before the
wind, rocking and reeling often, but always
righting herself, even though drenched again
and again with water. Musa was wet
through ; the shrill wind whistled amongst her
curls and blew them upright ; it was all
she could do to keep her place, and cling
to the tiller to keep the boat's head due
north.

The hours she had lost, going about to
hide her destination from Andreino, had
brought her into the very press and peril of
the wild weather that had come upon sea
and land. But for that she would have been

home by now. She could scarcely keep in a
bitter cry, all useless as was such lament,
thinking of him at home watching for her,
wondering, doubting perhaps, alone with the
bitterness of his own heart all through the
weary day.

The sun had long been covered by the
dense western clouds and she could not well
guess the hour, but it began to grow very
dark, and big raindrops began to fall. She
could hardly tell her course ; all before,
behind, on every side, was fog and spray
and gloom.

She thought with a continual agony,
what will he do if I should drown ? '

She knew it was very likely that she
would drown, alone, out at sea on such an
evening in a little open boat. She had seen
the cruelties of the sea in all their shapes
from her babyhood. She had seen many a
drowned man washed up on the sand,
swollen, eyeless, half-eaten by the sharks.
She knew the great fish that waited down
there underneath the waves, to give an added
horror to death. She knew all the ghastliness
of death in the deep sea. But it was
not of herself she thought, but of him.
He had no one in all the world but herself;

what would become of him if the sea killed
her?

All the while as this one thought kept
place in her mind, to the exclusion of all
others, she did all that it was possible to do
to save the boat and herself. Once she was
washed fairly out of the boat, but she clung
to it with both hands, and climbed over its
wet side, and went on again in the trough of
the trembling waves. The flasks of wine
and oil and the sack of flour had been
washed over also, and were lost. Even in
that moment of mortal jeopardy she felt a
pang the more to think he would not have
those things he so sorely needed.

What headway she was making, whether
she was close inshore or out at sea, she
could not tell ; all was black as night around
her. Now and then the lightning flashed,
now and then she could see the whiteness
of the hissing water ; now and then the
wind lulled, and she could hear the minute-guns
of some ship in distress firing far away
behind her. There is many a coral reef and
many a sunken rock along the sea-shore of
Maremma.

Are the angels all dead that tend the
stars ? ' she thought, in the vague fancy that

the songs of the ' angiolin ' had imbued
her with ; and then she set her teeth and
clung on for dear life again. No one in
heaven cared. It was with her as when the
moor-hen was shot on the waters, as when
the woodlark was trapped in the net. No
one cared. There was no ' angiolin ' beside
the stars !

She was now almost numb with cold.
The water drenched her, rain and saltwater
both poured over her, and the night
had grown bitterly cold. She supposed it
was night, she could not tell. She put off
her heavy shoes, and made her clothes as
light as she could, knowing that at any
moment she might have to float and swim
for her life. She kept her hold as well as
she could on the tiller, and kept the boat as
far as she could guess due north.

The sea seemed like some great cauldron
that boiled and seethed. The roar and the
shriek of the winds were incessant. The
rain seemed to strike like whips. The little
craft was well-built and seaworthy, and kept
afloat where a heavier vessel would at once
have filled and sunk. But she knew very
well that every moment might be her last,
and a great cold had crept into her very

blood. She began to grow giddy and to
feel deaf, the noise of the winds was so loud,
the swirl of the water was so riotous.
She began to be bewildered and dull ; and
she kept saying, ever and ever and ever
aloud, ' what will he do if I drown ? what
will he do ? '

That was her only distinct thought.
All the rest, without and within, was darkness,
utter darkness, in which she was thrown hither
and thither and buffeted by the winds and
the waves. At last one great wave took her
and cast her over the boat's side. She
flung up her hands in vain, the boat was no
more there ; the weight of the leaping billow
dashed her on her back, and the salt foam
poured between her lips.

What will lie do ? ' she thought, ' What
will he do ? '

That was her last conscious moment.

The sea closed over her and she knew no
more.

[HEN she unclosed her eyes from

out of the trance of death, she

lay upon the stone floor of the

tomb before the wood fire.

Este kneeled beside her ; her hands were

in his, his breath was on her cheek.

4 What has happened ? ' she said stupidly ;
then suddenly remembered.

4 The oil and the wine are lost ! ' she
cried ; then grew drowsy and stupid
again as the warmth from the burning wood
stole over her and rejoiced all her cramped
and frozen body.

'What matters that?' he murmured
over her. 4 You are saved ; you live

She smiled dreamily, her eyelids had
dropped again, She was but half awake.

It was so pleasant to lie there, at home, with
the glow of the fire spreading over all her
wet numb limbs, aud the sense of his hands
on hers, of his voice on her ear.

Her head rested on a log of wood
covered with a goatskin ; her damp curls
began to grow crisp, and the gold in them
shone in the light of the blazing wood ; her
face was pale as marble ; her slender feet
lay bare and white upon the other goatskins
he had spread beneath her ; she was
more lovely so in her helplessness than she
had ever seemed to him in all the plenitude
of her strength and health.

He murmured tender and passionate
words over her; he kissed her curls and
her hands and her feet ; it had been those
kisses which had awakened her.

Now, as she lay half dreaming, half
smiling, only half conscious yet, he drew
back from her a little ; he w r as afraid to
alarm her ; life in her had seemed for a time
so still that he had thought her dead. She
had had no more motion, no more breath in
her, than a broken lily thrown down on the
grass.

But Glaucus had only played with this
his favourite child ; he had not killed her.

She lay still for many minutes ; now and
again her eyes looked for a moment up at
the familiar shadows of the tomb and then
closed with the dreamful pleasure of a child
that lies half asleep and hears sweet music,

I was afraid,' she murmured once, c I
was so afraid — for you ! '

Then she lay still and seemed again to
dream ; her eyes closed, her lips parted with
a faint glad smile.

The tears fell from the eyes of Este.

After awhile she raised herself quite suddenly,
and a look of alarm and of fuller
comprehension came upon her face.

1 I was drowning,' she said aloud. ' I was
thrown out of the boat and was drowning.
What has happened ? I was coming back
and the storm broke. The wine and the oil
were lost. I am sure that I swam, and the
water threw me down and buried me. How
am I here ? Who helped me ? '

Do not ask that ? ' said he tenderly.
It is enough that you are here. Be still —
forget.'

She raised herself higher and leaned on
the skins with one elbow, and so sat halt'
erect and fastened her gaze on him.

Tell me, tell me ; I want to know ! I

am not mad ? I have not dreamt it, have I ?
I was drowning ; oh yes, I was drowning — is
it long ago ? Who brought me home ? Is
the boat safe ? '

4 1 brought you home, dear.'

6 You ! Tell me about it ; tell me quick !
I do not think I am mad. I am sure there
was a storm ; I was sure I went underneath
the sea, down — down — down. The water
was in my mouth and in my ears. I have
not dreamt it. Where is the boat ? '

Be quiet ; try to be calmer and I will
tell you. Yes, you went out in the boat today
and there has been a storm, a terrible
storm. It is not over yet, but you are safe
here.'

'Yes?'

She listened as a child listens to a tale,
her eyes dilated, her lips parted, leaning
still on one arm upon the goatskins before
the fire. She was quite warm now ; the
colour had returned to her face, her curls
were scarcely wet, and lay heavy and soft
over her brows.

Yes, you are safe here,' he answered
her, afraid that her consciousness was still
dim and her thoughts were vague, and speaking
in the simplest and the clearest words

he could that they might find their way to
her brain without startling her. c You are
home and with me ; we are both safe. When
the storm came I sat here till I could bear
to hear it no longer, knowing that you were
out upon the sea. I do not know the time —
it may have been at Ave Maria or later —
that the horror of the thought grew too
great for me to sit here and endure it. I
was in safety, warm beside the hearth that
you had made for me ; and you were
there alone in the dark on the waters.
I got up and I went out. I could see
nothing for the rain, I could hear nothing
for the wind ; I could only tell that out at
sea the night was terrible. I lighted your
lantern, and I walked on and on, on and
on, making for the shore as well as I could
guess. You had told me certain landmarks,
and by the lantern light I could
avoid the bogs and the trunks of the trees.
Still I think I must have been a Ions* time
getting to the shore. It seemed to me the
whole night — perhaps it might be less than
an hour — I cannot say. I could hear a
minute-gun far away over the waters ; and
I knew you were out at sea, unless by
Heaven's mercy you had had some warning

of the storm and had stayed in harbour.

But I thought, whatever the weather was

you would be trying to come back to me.

I was sure that you were in the boat in

that awful darkness. I walked and walked ;

there was not a star to guide me, all above

and below was black as ink. I could only

hear the rushing of the wind, the crashing of

the boughs. Once a herd of cattle and horses

tore past me, mad no doubt with fright ; they

almost trampled me down amongst them.

I saw no other living thing. I forgot that I

was a hunted felon ; I only remembered you.

I felt the wind was from the south-west, and

so walking against it I hoped to come to the

beach at last. If I had known the country

as well as you, I should have had no fear.

As it was, I knew I might walk the whole

night yet never find the sea. But all at

once I felt my feet wet. I stooped and

tasted the water ; it was salt. The roar of

the wind was so loud that I had missed the

sound of the sea, but the sea it was. By

the lantern light I could see the foam on a

breaking wave. Now I was there I seemed

no nearer you. I had no boat ; I could do

nothing ; my sight could not pierce the

darkness by a yard's length. You might

be drowning, I knew, within a foot of
me, and I helpless, knowing nothing of
it. On Gorgonaa I saw many storms, but
none so dark as this. I wandered miserably
up and down, to and fro, on that
Stretch of sand. The sea had rolled up,
I think, much higher than it rises in fairweather.
I could not tell what to do ; only I
could not go home, thinking you were lost in
that hissing, boiling, howling blackness, that
seemed to have swallowed up both earth and
sky. The soldiers might have taken me if
there had been any there ; I do not think
I should have known they touched me.
Going along the shore, to and fro, like a
lost dog, with the great wall of those waves
you love beside me, and the water rolling
with a sound like thunder, I touched
something with my foot. It was you !
You were lying there in the wet sand, with
the foam of the surf all about you. How
you came there I cannot tell. The sea
loved you because you never feared it, and
so saved you, I suppose. I suppose the
breakers had nursed you like a child, and
thrown you gently at last upon the lap of
the shore. You were quite insensible, but
your heart was beating. I carried you here.

I missed my way twice or thrice, and the way
was long. But at last we came home. That
is all. Ah, dear, do not say I do not love
you ever again.'

She had heard him in perfect silence,
her eyes wide open, her lips parted, pushing
back her hair with her hand, and seeming
to hang upon each accent of his voice.

When his words ceased, she gave a
startled cry that was half a sob.

You did that for me ? ' she said, in a
wondering whisper. ' You ran that risk —
for me ? '

He stooped and kissed her.

With a sigh and a smile in one breath,
she threw her arms about his throat.

LL the earth was rejoicing with
the thrill of the spring.

The song-birds were returning,
and through the hush cf
morning and of evening the merry song of
the starling and the sweet piping of the
woodlark stirred the woods. In all green
moss-grown places violets were blossoming
and the tender fronds of new ferns uncurling;
along the sides of all the runlets of water the
first primroses were budding, and all along
the sandy shores the squills and the sea daffodils
were beginning to appear. The nights
began to grow melodious, the first nightingales
arriving with their love chaunts ; and all the
daylight seemed full of Hitting wings and
amorous trills till even the sombre rosemary

VOL. III. G

trembled with their mirth and their pleasure
; the lowly tussocks of dog-grass and
the lofty ilex and robur-oaks were alike the
home of their innocent passions, and down
the shadowy waters, between the solitary
brakes and thickets, the water birds sailed
before each other's eyes in their pomp of
courtship and coquetry of wooing.

All living things loved one another ;
from the partridges that tripped together
through the thyme to the little warblers
sounding the first notes of their return
amidst the sedges of the pools.

And the human lovers were also happy,
and even in the shadows of the sepulchres
their hearts thrilled in unison with the joy
of the awakening year.

Now and then love triumphs over
circumstances, and nature is a stronger
thing than all the laws of men.

mud,

'WAY in Mantua the weather
was still chill and cheerless, the
waters were still yellow with the
snows of winter that melted into
the sun that warmed the green
Maremma land and set a nest under every
tussock of grass, and covered with blossoms
every inch of the rich red soil, did not as
yet shine on the melancholy city in the
midst of the northern plains. White fogs
drifted up over the surface of the lakes, and
keen winds came over the Venetian Alps
and sighed down the deserted arcades and
through the lonely palaces.

At evening time a man would walk, the
same way always, out westward by the
Argive del Mulino, and would watch the

G v

sun go down in the west where Marina
lay far away beside the sea, and would say
to himself as he looked, 'What does the
sun see in that green land ? '

The people of Mantua only knew him
as a stranger, one of the many travelling
painters who were lured there by the sad
charm of the pale waters reflecting the
domes and towers and walls, and the arches
of the bridges, and the tall belfries whose
metal tongues called but to mass, and nevermore
to war. He was silent, reserved ;
they thought him poor ; he passed his days
drawing the austere palaces, the ruined fortresses,
the many stories told in stone ;
sometimes he took a boat and passed long
hours out on the lagoons still grey and windblown
with the lingering winter's breath.
No one noticed him ; he was but a painter
like so many ; out in the world he might be
famous, but here in Mantua he was unknown
and disregarded.

Mantua slept like a magician enchanted
by his own spells, whilst the grass grew long
on the roofs and the battlements, and the
works of gorgeous Giulio faded and dropped
to dust in the palaces above the waters or
down beneath the blue acacia shadows,

The stranger attracted no notice as he
came and went amongst the market people
and the fishermen ; they did not observe
that he was constantly watching the dark
figure of Don Piero di Albano as it emerged
from the vast arched ways of the palace
on the Ago di Mezzo, or returned from
the law courts in the mist of the frost-touched
evenings. Don Piero had raised a
mound of fair marble to his wife, and paid
daily for masses for her soul, said in the
noble church of S. Andrea, and went about
amongst his fellow-citizens still in the garb
of woe and with a long face, mourning for
his young spouse.

But Sanctis never saw his shadow
lengthen on the moss-grown stones but
what he said to himself, ' this is the assassin.'


How to prove it ? That was the problem
which perplexed him and baffled him, and
which he turned over and over in his
thoughts every evening time that he walked
out by the mills of the Twelve Apostles, and
looked across the water to the sombre front
of the great iron-bound Gothic palace, wherein
the summers that were gone Donna
Aloysia had leaned from her casement to

watch her lover's boat glide towards her in
the moonlight.

Do yon still believe in Eomeo ? ' said
with a smile the Abate he had spoken toon
the evening after the trial, recognising
him once as they paced side by side over
the drawbridge.

I believe him to have been guiltless of
that crime,' Sanctis answered gravely.

Mantua condemned him, and Mantua
knew him,' said the Abate ; ' you did not.'

Sanctis was silent.

c And the husband ? ' he said abruptly.
What has Mantua to say of him ? '

6 A pious man,' said the priest, ' and a
forgiving one. Donna Aloysia was notoriously
unfaithful, yet he has built her a fair
tomb all of marble, and with a silver ever-burning
lamp above it ; and every day —
every day, mark you ! — masses are said for
her soul at his cost in S. Andrea.'

JSTo doubt a most holy man,' said his
hearer assenting ; and leaned over the
parapet and looked at the sun setting in
crimson glory beyond the leagues of bulrushes
and the grey placid waters.

6 Why should I try to do him this good ? '
he thought. ' Mantua knew him and Mantua

condemned him ; and if ever I should be able
to prove his innocence, how will he use his
liberty ? Will he be faithful to her once he
ceases to need her? Will he justify her
before the. world when the world is once
more open to him ? I doubt ; I doubt.
Perhaps I shall be able to force him to it ;
but of what value is extorted honour, is compelled
love ? I doubt ; I doubt. He has
no real love for her. He is a wayward,
weary child, and she is the only plaything
that lies near his hand, the only blossom to
be plucked within his reach. That is all ;
and she — she gives life and eternity, body
and soul; she only breathes through his
breath, she only sees through his eyes,
she only lives by him. That is love. Nothing
else is. And if I should set him free tomorrow,
what would he do? Forget? I
think so. Here his dead love was slain, his
passion was closed in death ; and he has forgotten
that. Once free he will forget this
too. He will leave Maremma behind him
and remember it no more than he will
remember the marsh-lilies that bloomed
there last year.'

That he knew ; but he had promised to
give his life to Este's service. He could not

draw back once having pledged his honour
to the task.

He watched the sun sink away over the
pale leafless Lombard plains, and sink out
of sight amidst the golden mists of the
coming night. The rays from the set sun
were still red in the heavens and, falling
on the many casements of the dark palace
where Donna Aloysia's beauty had once
been like a gorgeous flower blooming in a
dungeon, turned all the glass behind" the
iron bars to flame-like radiance, and made
the melancholy waters washing the walls
glow for the moment like a stream of opals
and rubies.

I will keep faith with him,' Sanctis said
to himself, as he leaned and watched the
sombre pile. ' Maybe he will feel his debt
to me, and so keep faith with her.'

HE fair commencement of the
spring spread into fuller glory ;
the air grew full of the scent
of narcissus and woodruff; the
gladly and the iris, purple and azure,
blossomed beside every pool and runlet of
water; in the woods the flowering ashes
were white as new-fallen snow, the sombre
ilex glades grew light with their young
leafage, the bird-cherry and the fragrant
cherry were in bloom, and the goats
cropped once more the tender leaves of
cistus and of myrtle.

In the great unmeasured meadows the
grass grew already breast-high ; the buffaloes

and the roebuck wandered through
seas of flower-foam ; the honeysuckle garlanded
the straight pine-stems, and the
cerulean clusters of the mouse-ear and the
deep green fans of the nymphs began to
spread themselves between the sky and
the little merry fish and the ever-chaunting
frogs that filled with noise the silence of
the pools and streams. All the earth was
running over with foliage and blossoms and

young new-born things, as the week-old
fawns slept beneath the acanthus shade,
and the colts gambolled on the velvet softness
of the mossy glades, and the pretty
little foxes ran out of their earths in the
moss-covered sandstone, and the yet prettier
leverets stole in their mother's wake across
a bed of hyacinths blue as the sky.

The cuckoo called from the leafy heights
of the sculls-oaks, and all night long the
nightingale told the rosemary that she had
seen nothing sweeter than itself in Egypt orin
Palestine ; for it is the rosemary rather
than the rose that Philomel loves best.

Sometimes, when Musa came up from
the shadow of the tombs into all that
abounding light, that universal fragrance,
that immense sense of life and loveliness, in

which she could almost hear the given
earth growing, she would stretch out her
arms in love of it all and gratitude, and
cry out aloud to the sunlit solitude :

1 I, too, am happy ! I, too, live ! '

Every pulse of life in her rejoiced with
rejoicing nature. She envied no more the
water birds sailing all day beside their nests;
she no more wondered why the woodlark
sang praise, praise, praise, and nothing but
praise, to the Creator of all.

The joy of a strong nature is as cloudless
as its suffering is desolate.

He loved her ; at least he loved her
enough to have that power over her which
steals all the strength away from the woman
it rules, and closes her eyes in a trance.

He loved her ; and when she went out
away from him into the golden air, all her
life seemed to sing its joy within her ; she
could have laughed aloud and have danced
with the fawns in the pastures.

Even he was startled at the change and
radiance that came upon her beauty ; her
eyes seemed to have imprisoned the sunbeams
in their depths ; her lips seemed to
have ever on them that sigh cf love which
is happier than all smiles ; when he embraced

her it seemed to him that he touched
an Immortal.

6 You are glorious as a young goddess,
he had murmured to her once ; ' and I — I
am but a hunted felon , afraid to meet the
light.'

Then she had laid her arms upon his
shoulders, and raised her beautiful mouth to
his.

6 You are my love ! my love ! ' she had
answered him ; and in the brief whisper
there had been such eloquence of passion
as he thought no poet's words or musician's
melody had ever yet been able to give to
sound.

When she took the flowers of the woods
and put them before Joconda's coffin, as she
never forgot to do, she said always, as she
kneeled a moment there :

6 Dear friend, where you are you understand
; he loves me, and we are happy, and
you, you will forgive ? '

It seemed to her that the dead must see
as God saw, with whom they were.

Her daily life was the same as it had
been before. There could be but little
remission of her labours, since nothing but
her strength and her effort stood between

them both and death by hunger. She
passed many hours of the day in her usual
work ; the boat had been flung up on the
shore by the Sasso Scritto not injured too
much for her to repair it. She continued
to fish, to spin, to hew and carry wood, to
plait the biodo, and to cut the heath ; only
he would never have her go more into the
towns and villages, and so they lived as
best they could on the wild oats of the last
year, on the roots of the earth, and the eggs
of the plover and water-hens, and when she
took those she was always heedful to leave
one or two in each nest.

4 I could make nothing unhappy now,
she said to herself; and only for his sake,
never for her own, would she ever have
robbed the birds even thus far.

Her daily labours remained the same,
but it seemed to her as if she had the
strength of those Immortals he told her she
resembled. She felt as though she trod on
air, as though she drank the sunbeams and
they gave her force like wine ; she had no
sense of fatigue ; she might have had wings
at her ankles and nectar in her veins. She
was so happy, with that perfect happiness
which only comes where the world cannot

enter, and the free nature has lifted itself to
the light, knowing nothing of and caring
nothing for the bonds of custom and of prejudice
with which men have paralysed and
cramped themselves, calling the lower the
higher law.

She was as innocent as the doe was
in the brakes, knowing no will but its
forest lord's. Her pride had melted into
willing submission as the night's frost of the
Maremma dissolved before the kiss of the
sun-rays at morning.

It is not as though he were free as
other men are,' she said in her communion
with the memory of Joconda. ' I am all he
has. Even you would never have bid me
leave him.'

She longed to have delicate apparel that
she might seem the fairer before him ; she
was tempted to set the golden grasshopper
upon her bosom that she might look the
lovelier to him ; she would put flowers at her
throat ; she would take the sweet smell of the
broken bay leaves on her hands ; she would
say to the sunbeams that could not enter the
tomb, ' Become in with me that my hair may
have your light ! ' and she would cry to the
birds amongst the blossoming trees, * tell

me your secrets that I may sing to him a
song that will never tire him.'

For her songs tired him ; that she saw.
He "was always tired, he who could not seethe
face of the sun, who dared not walk
across a rood of turf, who had no range but
these narrow stone chambers that he paced
with restless feet, as the caged lions pace
their den.

He was the world to her ; if she .had
been in the crowds of a city she would
have seen but his face amidst the multitudes.
In the twilight of the tombs his smile made
for her a light more lovely than the morning
glory of the skies ; she could have lived so
through years, through centuries, content.

But he — his caprice crowned, his victory
assured — he began once more to weary of
the long and empty days, to sigh for the
ways of the world and the voices of men, to
fret his soul in that dull dejection which had
been roused and dissipated for a little time
under the eagerness of jealousy, the excitation
of failure.

It is no fault of yours, dear,' he said
once wearily, * you do all you can. But I
am a prisoner here. Though you console,
you cannot change, my fate. I have

read of a bird, a great vulture, who lived in
his cage, but his wings grew paralysed and
hung helpless. I am like the bird. I am half
paralysed. I am scarce a living man.'

Then, when he saw the great tears
start into her eyes and her face grow
pale, he repented and kissed her, and drew
the close-curling bronze of her hair to his
breast.

Nay, I do live, through you. I am an
ingrate to lament. Forgive me and forget
it!'

But his lament echoed in her heart, and
remained in his. It was the one shadow
across the sunlit path of perfect joy down
which her feet were going, careless of their
goal. He was not free ; and without freedom
the sweetest fruit has a bitter taste, the
clearest water has an acrid flavour.

He was not free ; and she who had had
power for awhile to make him oblivious of
his doom soon lost that power, through no
fault of her own, but merely through the
seldom-varying laws of reaction that govern
the man in his passion as the child with his
toy.

For a short space, for a few weeks, a few
months, the physical beauty of her and her

absolute devotion moved Este to some emotion
that was nearly love, and so in its
momentary empire possessed him and consoled
him. But it took no real hold upon
him, had no real power to absorb him and
reconcile him to his fate ; nay, his very infidelity
to his dead mistress made him remember
her with renewed tenderness. With
his heart beating against Musa's he would
think bitterly : * Why cannot I love as I
once loved ? Why does all her beauty leave
me cold ? Why cannot I know again that
old sweet madness ? Alas ! alas ! with her
my dead queen — should I have cared
whether a prison or a palace held her,
should I have known where we were, so
long as we were left together ? '

That was all dead in him.

He knew it. Vainly he strove to call
alight the fire that had died down in him ;
vainly he sought to persuade himself that
sensual covetousness was the same thing as
passion, and chill desire sweet as adoration.

like those kings of the East, who slay
living slaves to warm their own frozen veins,
he had thought by sacrifice of her to make himself
drunk once more with that intoxication of
the soul and senses in which the despair of

VOL. III. II

his hopeless fate could be forgotten. But
Ms heart beat but dully ; he could give but a
poor, short-lived, languid gratitude to this
hard-won love which merited such endless
recompense. Sometimes, when he bowed his
head down on Musa's breast, the bitter tears
would rise under his closed eyelids, as he
would think : ' If only she lived again ! if
only once more my lips could touch her ! '
And he knew that she was a dead thing therein
Mantua, a thing rotted out of all likeness
of itself, in her grave under the marble pile
in S. Andrea !

,HE had made her boat, which she

had found thrown up upon the

rocks, seaworthy again, and had

hung a cluster of pine-cones at

its bows, because Este had told her that

they were the symbol of Etruscan Nethlans,

the god of the deep sea.

1 He brought me back to you she said,
thinking of that night of peril, and, like a
child as she still was in some things, she
thought to please and to propitiate the Sea-king
by thus hanging his emblem at her
bows.

But the boat she could use little ; he did
not choose she should go far afield, and her
love of wandering was tamed and stilled,
her world was narrowed to one human life ;
she was like the nightingale that came so far,

ii 2

from Persian rose fields and from Syrian
cedar groves, and was content — so content ! —
to sit all the day long, all the spring through,
in one little nest on one low bough, amidst
the ploughman's spikenard and the blue
borage and the prickly safety of the field
ononis.

As the birds rested in their nests, so did
she, and lost her wish to roam hither and
thither over the far meadows stretching to
the south and the dense woodlands leading
to the Ciminian hills.

If he could have gone with her, indeed,
then, with her hand in his, gladly would her
steps have passed through the woodspurge
and the trefoil and the plumy grasses whilst
the blessing of the spring w T as upon all
the land. But since lie could not, dearer to
her than the sunlight was the twilight of
the tombs. She, to whom air was at once the
nectar and the necessity of life, gave up the
green and golden days without a sigh, except
a sigh that he was unable to behold the
radiance and smell the fragrance of them.
;: ■■ She was abroad for the inevitable work
needful for their maintenance, but no more
did she linger amidst the parnassus-grass by
the pools to watch the water birds, no more

did she lie for hours on the soft wood-moss to
wateli the clouds move by and change. The
sylvan life, the impersonal life, was over forevermore,
and she deemed her loss her gain.

Since he durst not trust himself to the
daylight, she stayed beside him, and let the
starry squills uncurl along the shore, and the
tulips spread a scarlet carpet through the
meadows, and the royal asphodel uplift its
sceptre to the sun, unseen by her eyes, that
loved them with the poet's love.

But he could not go out into the light of
day, he could not venture forth when his
hunters might at every step fall on him :
never a syllable escaped her of regret for
that which was impossible. The world was
so far from her ; she knew not of it ; she
was a law to herself, and her whole duty
seemed to her set forth in one simple word —
perhaps the noblest word in human language
fidelity. When life is cast in solitary
places, filled with high passions, and led aloof
from men, the laws which are needful to curb
the multitudes, but yet are poor conventional
foolish things at their best, sink back into their
true signification and lose their fictitious awe.

He and she were as utterly alone as the
first human lovers in the allegory of Eden ;

as in Eden, the only sin that could come nigh
them would be unfaithfulness.

She lost her dread of losing him.

It seemed to her that no one could ever
reach and hurt him, prayed for as he was
daily, hourly, with all her soul sent up in
prayer, even in those very moments when she
felt most fear that there was no mercy anywhere
to hear her more than the hunted
doe's and the trapped redbreast's cries were
heard.

He was guiltless of the crime they accused
him of; she was too young to doubt
that innocence was a buckler holy and impenetrable,
a defence such as the gatherer of
the dove-orchid is thought to hold against
all foes of flesh or spirit.

It seemed to her that they might live forever
thus together, in these solemn shadows, in
these twilit chambers, where nothing came
of the world above save some stray beam of
the sun, some echo of a bird's carol, some
scent of the woodruff or the sweet herbs
blossoming above. She seldom thought of
the future — who does that is happy in the
present? — but whenever she did so she
seemed to see a long vista of the years to
come, lengthening away in golden haze as

the sea-shore did, winding to the south,
till it was lost in soft suffused light : she
seemed to see them always. All she asked
of fate was to be for ever together thus,
till age or death should find them, and lay
them gently down, folded in each other's
arms, still in the place of their refuge where
men would never behold them, but only the
wandering wind would sometimes bring the
flowers' message to them, and sometimes a
ray of the sun would come and kiss them
where they slumbered.

She could not divine the intolerable
impatience that tormented him, the unutterable
nausea of life that at times overcame
him, so that even she only seemed to
him a part of the burden of his days, a
portion of the weariness that weighed him
down.

He to her was as the daybreak, as the
morniiiGT, as the smile of the earth in the
spring-time, as the rainbow that breaks
through the darkness, as the star that guides
the mariner into harbour ; but to him she
was at best but what the humble flower
growing in the stones at his feet was
to the prisoner. Above her, behind her,
beyond her, for ever between him and her,

there was the passion of his longing to
escape, there was the vision of the world
he had lost.

At times, almost he could have cried
aloud to her, ' Better to have let me die
in the celebrates of the marshes than have
kept me alive to live thus ! '

Childlike, he had thought that, could
he but break down ■ a blossom that hung
out of his reach, he would amuse himself
with it all the year through, and forget
how long time was, and cheat his dreary
destiny by oblivion of it. But, like the
child, having reached and culled the blossom,
he cared little to play with it ; almost
he looked with regret at what his sport
had done ; almost he wished it once more
out of reach, that he might once more
long for it.

In their loves men often are but
children ; and captious children, too.
Who thwarts them rules them best.
The time went on, like a long golden
ribbon slowly unwound.

The world was transfigured to her.
Now and then the fables of heaven cannot
match the ecstasies of earth ; only so soon
they perish, so soon they pass.

He was not content; that was the only
shadow on her path. He was restless,
weary often, often impatient of the restraint,
the tedium, the emptiness, of all his days.

If she could see his face and feel his
touch, all the world could have added
nothing to her joy ; but with him it was
otherwise. His short-lived passion, violent
for the time, burnt itself out quickly. What
he wanted was to w r alk among the cities
of men, to go whither he would, to hear
the laughter of the streets, to move and
roam, and like and hate, and change and
choose, and lead the life that others led — ■
in a word, to be free.

His captivity was like an eternal night
for ever about him. For others the sun
shone and the world turned, but he ate
his heart out here ; and the gloom of his
destiny was so great that it even stole from
him all warmth out of her cheek, all delight
out of her caress, and made her seem
to him but a portion of the interminable
weariness that enveloped him.

She was beautiful always, and to him
most tender ; and the humility of a proud
nature has in it a homage the most sincere
and the most exquisite in flattery that

human nature holds. Yet she could nevermore
than half console him ; she could
never so content him that he did not envy
the brown-winged scops as it flew out at
evening to wing its way over moor and
marsh.

A chained creature grows cruel because
of its own endless fret and pain.

He hid this from her as much as he could,
conscious with shame of the ingratitude he
could not control ; and she was less quick
to perceive it than she was to note other
emotions in him, because her eyes were
blinded with the celestial beauty of a love
that asked for itself nothing more from
earth or heaven than this life it had.

What to her were privation, alarm, toil,
solitude, danger, hunger even, so long as
she could hear his voice or feel his touch ?
They were no more than the raindrops
that fall on the leaves around are to the
swallow nestled by her mate in the little
warm house beneath the coping of the
wall.

So time slipped away; and each week,
each month, brought more strength and
patience and infinite adoration to her love
for him ; and brought more fatigue, more

irritation, more despondency at his fate to
him.

This long hot summer, with its damp
air, its bursts of tropical rain, its sultry
perilous vapours, seemed like one tedious
day to him ; yet a day that would never
end, but was reeled off from the wheel of
destiny in horrible, perpetual, unchanging
sequence.

All the thrones of the world might
have been offered her, and all the anathema
of all its various religions hurled
at her, and she would never have left his
side in that lonely chamber of shadows.
But he?

The greatness of her nature escaped
him. The beauty of her sacrifice did not
touch him to more than a passing emotion.

He did not see that here was a soul
on which his own might rise to any heights ;
that here was a love which could become
to him as the ' white genius ' of the Etruriann
myth.

He failed to comprehend the magnitude
of her gifts to him. The reason was simple :
lie never really loved her.

Happily for her, she was not learned
enough in passion's vagaries to perceive that.

To her it seemed for ever wonderful that
he looked for her return as the shades of
evening fell with longing eyes, that he found
any loveliness in her, that he forgot his dead
mistress for her sake.

She was nothing in her own sight.

She was proud in some ways, but she
was utterly humble in others.

She was but a moorland thing in her
own sight, no higher than the loosestrife or
the woods purge was, just fed with sun and
dew, and born out of the soil where she
took root.

If she were, indeed, fair to see as he
and the others said, it was only, like the
flowers, by the grace of nature and the smile
of heaven. Her character was moulded on
too grand lines for any vanity to find place
to lurk in it, and that selfishness which is
the safeguard and armour of all average
women was also absent from her.

It is often said that the strong cannot
love the weak, the high tempered courage
cannot cling to the coward ; yet it is rather
the strong who alone can love the weak,
who can have the patience, the pity, the
abiding tenderness to bear with feebleness,
so unlike itself ; it is rather the high courage

that can stoop, and, full of infinite compassion,
feci that where others despise it can defend,
and comprehend what has been made
in its own unlikeness.

Moreover, love is for ever unreasoning,
and the deepest and most passionate love
is that which survives the death of esteem.

Friendship needs to be rooted in respect,
but love can live upon itself alone. Love is
born of a glance, a touch, a murmur, a caress ;
esteem cannot beget it, nor lack of esteem
slay it. Quest cite max da me non Fia
divest, shall be for ever its consolation
amidst hell. One life alone is beloved,
is beautiful, is needful, is desired : one life
alone out of all the millions of earth.
Though it fall, err, betray, be mocked of
others and forsaken by itself, what does this
matter? — this cannot alter love. The more
it is injured by itself, derided of men, abandoned
of God, the more will love still see
that it has need of love, and to the faithless
will be faithful.

'You love me as angels might love!'
lie said once to her, roused to some momentary
sense of wonder, recognition,
gratitude.

Sometimes she seemed to him, indeed,

like some grand young angel leaning clown
over his weakness. Sometimes that ineffable
tenderness, so inexhaustible, so divine, which
was in her oppressed and daunted him. It
seemed to lay a burden on his life, on his
conscience.

If she had but been as other women are,
captious, changeful, impatient, uncertain, he
would not have felt this vague fear of her
which seldom left him, blindly subject to
him though she was. Her patience was so
perfect, her love was so intense, that at
times he felt humbled and unworthy before
her, and would cry to her angrily, ' Why
make a god of me ? I have brought you
nothing but woe. Chafe me, deride me,
upbraid me, then perhaps I shall love you
always — men are made so.'

Those bitter words hurt her without her
understanding them.

Her tongue could not have framed a
rough word to him. The harmless cunning
of feminine wiles was as far away from her
as the fret of cities was distant from her
calm green woodlands and her solitary
shores. As soon could a Greek marble of
Electra have stooped to coquetry as she.

If you would but offend me that I

might quarrel with you,' lie said once, half
in jest. She smiled because he did, but she
did not comprehend.

Ah ! the fair hours ! he thought, when
in Mantua he and his love had quarrelled
almost to rupture, and black jealousy had
been there to stinii; to life the waning
passions, and the burning rage of mutual
reproach had melted into the amorous
delight of reconciliation, and the gall-apple
bitten through had made sweeter the honey
of delight.

Unholy memories, base gladness, this
he knew, yet he sighed for them.

These grand eyes of Musa, these lips
that were always mute unless they spoke
in blessing, made him feel feeble, ungenerous,
unworthy. Her very silence on
it made his debt the greater — too great — it
weighed love down.

The spring waned and grew summer,
the plains of corn became yellow and ruddy,
and the bearded grain fell to the hundreds
of sickles reaping there, as to thousands of
scythes the high grass had dropped in the
May-time. The flocks and the herds
wended their way to the cool mountains ;
the days were long and glowed with heat.

The old summer silence, the old summer
solitude, were come again ; the crickets
laughed in all the grass and all the trees,
and she was happy because the land was
lonely, left to him and her, shared only by
the blithe birds and the innocent beasts.

She began to lose the fear of his arrest.
As the calm days and weeks glided by they
brought by their tranquil recurrence a sense
of safety with them. The season of peril
had passed, and the sun now put a zone of
torrid heat and dazzling Fight about their
refuge, and the fever mists that to others
were terror were to her as a welcome wall
risen up between them and mankind.

The long, deep, unbroken stillness of the
Maremma day was sweet to her in this
midsummer time, when even the lusty, full-throated
merle was tired of song, and, except
the hum of insect life and the mirth of the
tree-frogs, there was no sound at all throughout
the land from sunrise until sunset. Into
the tomb of the Lucumo the heat of the
upper air could not penetrate greatly: there
.was .a , drowsy warmth in it, no more.
Whilst even the moor-hen was hot amongst
the mat-grass, and even the eagle flew with
languid wing over the olive woods of the

hills, in the Etruscan grave it was cool and
twilight always.

Once she went to the shore to gather
mussels and take them home for him ; they
would cook in the w T dashes and he would
tell her the while of Petronius, of Apicius, of
Lucullus, of all that luxurious life of Rome,
of Greater Greece, and of the otiosa N<'</-

She took off her shoes and kilted her
skirt, and waded almost knee-deep in the
shallow sea-water, while the shore beside
her was fragrant with the rosemary and the
southernwood, and the seapinks were blowing
like little puffs of rosy cloud, and a
kingfisher, all azure and emerald in the
sun, did not fly away at her approach, but
went on with his own fishing and meditations.


She gathered her harvest of the sea, and
found a few oysters, too, in amongst the
rocks and the sea-fennel. The water was
blue as the kingfisher's breast, a sweet
west wind w T as stirring it ; in the clear air
Elba stood forth like a giant's castle in tales
of magic; above head the rock-doves and
the rock-martins were wheeling and soaring
amongst the golden moles of the sunbeams.

v t ol. m. i

It was early, and all was still. There
was not even a sail on the horizon.

She waded on to the sand, out of the
water, and leaned to rest against a great
boulder of ruddy tufa, putting her creel
down beside her.

She wore one of those straw hats bell-shaped
like the hat of Hermes, which still,
with the shepherd's crook and the shepherd's
reed-pipe, and the water-jar balanced
on the women's heads, and the attitudes
of the half-nude, symmetrical, and supple
limbs, recall the statues of Phidias and of
Clements to the student as he wanders
here, wherever the lands are lonely and
the goats crop the wild thyme.

With one hand resting on the rock
behind her, and her feet lightly crossed
and glistening with the yellow sand and
the sea-water, she looked out over the
broad blue heaving plain of light, and
thought with grateful heart of that terrible
night when the sea had devoured her and
released her.

How dark it had been that night!
Dark with the thoughts of the Lord,' asa
Russian poet has said of the night on
the steppes of Ukraine. She had died and

come to life again. She had descended

into the grave of the deep waters, and
been delivered by the hand that she loved.

Her heart swelled with emotion and was
thankful as she looked through the sunlight
on the sea which had been thus
merciful.

How the black wall of water had risen
and towered above her ! how the foam of
it had hissed, and boiled, and seethed !
How impenetrable had been the cruel starless
skies ! how deep and how hoarse the
thunder of the storm !

She remembered it, and recalled it with
a' thrill of awful pleasure, as a child that
has been lost, lying safely in his little bed
at home, will recall the terrors of the unknown
roads and unknown faces that scared
him on his way.

Absorbed in those memories, she did not
hear a boat approach through the water
and ground on the sand, as that of Sand is
had done in the winter noon.

Before she had heard any sound about her,
Da niello Villamagna had come beside her.

It was seven months since she had left
him standing by the sea-wall by the salt
lagoon of Orbetello. Since then he had

i 2

made another voyage ; this time to the
surly Flemish coast, to the grey cloudy
Scheldt, carrying his rich amber and green
Sicilian fruit through the snowstorms and
the north winds of the great waves that
Scandinavia and Iceland sent rolling in to
the Low Country shores.

He was paler and thinner than before,
but his eyes were bright and full of eagerness.

4 1 have found you once more ! ' he cried
to her. 'Ah! do not move, do not go
away, you hurt me. Why will you mistrust
me ? '

All the softness had gone out of her
face, and all the light had gone, too, as
soon as she had seen him. He was nothing
to her but another danger, another difficulty,
another trouble the more.

1 1 do not mistrust you,' she said, remembering
how he had lent her his boat
and bade his boatswain not follow her. ' I
think you are a loyal man ; sailors are
always loyal. But I am sorry that you do
not forget me, and cease to come after
me, for though you should so come for
twenty years, never shall I say you are
welcome.'

Pain and anger both swept over his

handsome face, as a cloud sweeps over a
landscape.

1 I have been seeking you many days,
he said, c to and fro, up and down the
coast. I en me back from the Flemish seas
last month. It was bad weather for the
most part ; the snowstorms were many.
Sometimes the rigging of my brig was hung
with icicles. The winter is long in those
parts, as long as the summer with us. I
tli ink they never see a sunbeam, save such
as the oranges we take them have caught
on their rinds of gold. You do not listen.
I could tell you many things that would
divert you, but j^ou will not listen. Well,
only hear me say this : I took the memory
of you with me all the way over those cold
seas. When my men shivered in the frost,
I said to myself, "it is not so cold as
were her unkind words." I have not
looked a woman in the eyes since last I
saw you yonder by the stagno. Nay, that
I swear '

'Look at whom you will,' said Musa,
angrily, ' only look not at me '

He pursued his discourse, unheeding her
displeasure, though it struck him hardly.

1 If you had been with me, the life

would have pleased you ; it is good. It is
good to go aud see those poor muffled
wretches who scarce ever feel the sun and
move like ghosts about beneath their fogs ;
and then to come back to see our own
shores, where all the sunshine is, and where
the very moon makes us a second day, and
where the lutes sound half the night, and
the olive grows down to the sea, and in
winter all the air is full of the smell of
the orange-flower and of the coltsfoot in
the grass.'

She gave an impatient movement as he
paused, but he pursued the thread of his
own thoughts aloud.

K If you had only come ! It is at you
only that I look. Though I have not
seen your face seven long months, it has
been with me always. Out of the grey
and yellow fog you seemed to beckon
me. Oh, yes ! I know well you never do,
you never even wish to see me. But I — ■
I love you so well it seems to me that
some time or another I must bring you
to care a little. I am not much myself,
though women have smiled on me before
now ; but the ship is a good ship, and
will cradle you safely on the waves — and

you love the sea — and down on ray Sicilian
shore I would make you a nest as the
lory makes his amongst the orange-trees,
and your nest should be all amongst the
white orange and lemon flowers, and overhang
the waves so that you should be able
to see the coral and the fish of the deep
water, just leaning from your balcony.
When I heard the church-bells ringing
inland as I went along the black, wintry,
bitter coast, it was for you I prayed. I
took my good ship into her dock, and
then I came back here to find you. Why
will you not say something gentler? To
love you is no offence.'

You have seen me twice ! '

When I had seen you once it was
enough : I love you, and I was not
afraid '

He was thinking of the fierce Mas-tarn
blood which he knew ran in her
veins ; he was thinking, ' though I knew
that she w r ould live to plunge a knife into
my breast, yet would I make her mine — if
I could, if I could.'

She heard him with pain and with anger.
Her whole nature had softened and changed
under the influence of a great passion as

bronze melts under the flames. She was
more able to feel sorrow for him than she
had been before in the unthinking hardness
of her ignorance of love. But she was still
offended, troubled, and perplexed.

She was silent awhile, watching the
motionless body of the kingfisher glancing
like a jewel in the sun. The sailor watched
her as she stood erect on the edge of the
waves.

He thought to himself, should he tell
her of Saturnino ? Should he tell her
whence she took her grand luminous eyes,
her passion for freedom, her strength of
body and spirit ?

But how should she believe him if he did ?

How should he persuade her that he
spoke the truth ? And how much it would
wound her, humble her, make her ashamed,
to know herself the daughter of that galley-slave,
that mountain thief, that murderer,
whom she had abhorred whilst she had
pitied him ! He dared not ; she would but
hate him himself the more.

He said to her only: 'Ho you remember
that day by the stagno, when you
were sorry to see the brigand of Santa
Fiora working like an ox in a yoke ? '

'Yes; I remember that. He got away,
they said, and was eaten by the sharks

He got away, but he lives still. It
was I who made his escape possible. He
threw himself from the sea-wall and swam ;
I picked him up ; in the darkness no one
saw my boat. I carried him across to
Sardinia, where men of his blood live in
the forests and on the hills. I did it for
yon, because you pitied him.'

1 You did a brave thing,' she said, and
almost she smiled at him, and his heart was
glad.

I did it for you,' he said, and hesitated.
Should he tell her?

1 He was a bad man,' she answered.
4 He was a murderer and a thief many
times. But chained there I felt sorry for
him, though he did betray me and steal the
gold.

1 What gold ? ' said the mariner quickly.

1 Gold that was trusted to me,' she said,
remembering how nearly she had betrayed
herself.

4 The gold of the Etruscan grave ? ' he
said.

The blood went out of her lips with
fear.

How did you know of that ? ' she
asked, with terror at her heart.

Saturnino himself told me. He told
me that you showed him a place in the
earth — a buck delle fate — and that there were
gold toys there and armour, and he stole
them, and they led to his own undoing.'

As he merited,' she said between her lips.
She breathed again at ease, remembering that
Saturnino had not known she lived there.

Did ever he speak to you of one who
escaped with him,' she asked, desiring to
know the worst ; ' a noble, sentenced for
murder, for whom reward is offered ? '

No ; he never spoke of him. Why ? '

8 There would be money to be made
if you knew where he was,' she said,
with the subtlety of her race, which ran
side by side with their bold passions.

I am not a bloodhound to track him,'
said Danielloo Villamagna, with contempt.
1 No, I know nought of him, and would not
use my knowledge if I did. Nor would
you, I think ? '

'They offer money,' said Musa, with
feigned avarice ; ' but I, too, am not a spy.'

1 If you love money, look at this,' said
the sailor, deceived by her apparent greed.

He brought out from the breast of his
shirt a little case, and in the case was a
necklace made of that fine gold, lavorato a
folia, for which Sicilian goldsmiths are
still famous as they were in the old Greek
days.

She looked at it with a smile.

c It is pretty. You will give it to your
dama. 1

I brought it for you,' he said, with the
timidity of true love making his voice
tremble and his brown hand shake.

For me ! Ah, I am not like Saturnino
of Santa Fiora. I care nothing for trinkets.
Go you back with it to your island and give
it there to some one who will smile at you.
As for me, I have no time to idle with you ;
I am going home '

1 You will not take it ? '

Certainly I will not.'

He threw the case, with the necklace
in it, by a sweep of his arm far out into the
sea.

The kingfisher, startled at the splash,
rose and took wing regretfully.

The sea has enough treasure without
yours,' said Musa with indifference. ' You
scared the bird '

For the first time he lost patience,
and a fierce oath escaped him.

You have no more heart than a stone
he said bitterly, as Este once had said it.

She did not answer, but took up her
creel with the mussels and oysters in it.

Where do you live ? ' he said abruptly.

That I shall not tell you.'

That she dwelt in the tombs never
occurred to his thoughts. Saturnino had
spoken of the place as a hole in the earth,
and he himself had only guessed that from
containing gold toys it was some Etruscan
burial-place. He had heard of such.

8 You will not tell me ? ' he said in his
teeth. 'Then I will find out for myself.'

She did not reply ; she thought how the
kingfisher blinds and baffles men to where
his underground home is made : surely she
could do as much as the birds did. Yet a
great dread was at her heart ; it would be
hard to rid herself of this persistent wooer.

At last a thought struck her, and she
looked him full in the face.

'What can it matter to you where I
live ? Leave me in peace. You should be
too proud to come where you are undesired.
As for the other things that you

say, thus much I will tell you: I dwell
with one I love. All the rest of the world
may die — for me.'

There was no colour on her face as
she spoke, and no tremor in her voice ;
she looked him full in the eyes, calmly
and coldly ; there was sternness and repose
in her look. So might Fate itself have
spoken.

He grew as pale as though she had
struck him a blow which he coidd not
return.

He drew back a step or two, and
gazed at her with pain which would have
been pathetic to her if she had had any
sight or thought to give to him.

All the rest of the world may die —
for me.'

The words seemed to go through him
and slay every hope and fancy in him :
then and for evermore. They were so entirely
the expression of a passion that was
only so tranquil because it was so absolute.
All in a moment he felt broken, bruised,
grown old. His youth all at once seemed
to slip away from him, never to return.

4 Is that so?' he said at last. 'Then
truly have I nothing to do here. I thought

your heart white marble, on which no hand
had writ any name ; and why, I thought,
why not write mine — but to you, no doubt,
I look mad.'

Then, with those halting words, so
inadequate and feeble to utter what he
felt, he reached with a stride his little
boat, and launched it and plunged his oars
into the water.

The jutting wall of the Sasso Scritto
in another moment or two hid him from
sight.

He was gone over the silent pathway
of the sea ; while the gold of his necklace
hung five fathoms down upon a branch
of coral, amongst the gliding incurious fish
and the strange foliage of the deep-water
weeds.

Neither to the trinket nor to him did
she give a regret. She lifted the creel of
mussels on her shoulder, and stepped outwith
wet feet and lightened heart over the
sand homeward.

N the grey river-clay that she
brought for Este with arduous
toil from the bed of the Ambrose
river, he had made in the twilight
of his sombre and solitary workroom a full-sized
statue of her. He had a facile talent,
and here, where it was his only solace, his
sole pursuit, he had achieved a certain
greatness of conception ; and freedom and
grace were both in the work of his hand.

When she came in that day, he stopped
her with a gesture.

1 Ah, how like you are to my image of
you,' he said, with an artist's pleasure in
his own creation.

In his statue he had made her with
nude feet and arms, fresh come from the

sea, with the bronze aryballos poised upon
her head, as he had seen her stand a
hundred times before him. On the rough
clay of the base he had scratched Glaucus
her name. His work was both graceful
and noble ; it had truth to nature and a
beautiful youthfulness in it. He who had
only idled now and then with clay in the
Lombard studios of friendly students was
both amazed and proud that he could now
call so much life out of the grey earth
that the Ambrose washed daily towards
the sea.

Is it like me, indeed ? ' she said for
the twentieth time as she looked timidly
at it. ' I see my bare feet, and the ribbon-weed
in the sand, and the bronze jar ; but
all the rest — can it be like me ? '

And he told her for the twentieth
time —

6 It is like you if grey clay can belike
a living flower.'

She looked at it doubtingly, unable to
believe in any flattery so sweet as this.
Then she said to him :

You will be glad to know that Saturnine
Mastarna has got safe away from
Orbetello ; he has crossed over to Sardinia ;

it is an island, you know, a big one ; we
can see it very far away, like a cloud, and
the flamingoes come from there, they say.'
Who told you ? '

1 A man noon the shore.'

t

A certain sensitiveness — rather for him
than for the lover she had rejected — made
her shrink from saying that a man who
was free to woo her had spoken to her
of love that day. She was afraid to rouse
his jealousy.

Este ceased to look at the statue; his
face grew overcast, he sighed with impatience.


1 He can go, and the flamingoes, and
the swallows, and the falcons,' he said
bitterly ; c only I must stay ! How did he
get away ? '

The boat of a friend took him ; he
sprang from the sea-wall in the dark, as
the gang left off their night-work.'

I should have been better there than
here ; then I too might have taken that leap.'
And I ? ' said the eyes of Musa ; but
her voice said nothing.

Was it of this he was always thinking?
To escape, to get away, to go elsewhere?
Was this home, that was as dear to her

VOL. III. K

as its hole in the rock to the cliff-pigeon,
only to him but a prison the more?

6 That brute, . cursed with a thousand
crimes, can get free ! ' he muttered. And I
shall rot away my whole life in a hole in
the rocks, and hear the feet of men go by
above in the grass ! And there is no blood
on my hands ! '

She looked at him in awe and pain.
I thought you would be glad, for his
sake,' she said wistfully, and then added,
with a quiver of exceeding tenderness in
her voice : ' For me, I wish all his crimes
forgiven him ; he sent you here.'

That exquisite softness of meaning and
of accent passed by him; he was envying
the freed man his flight across the sea to
that mysterious isle, where, safe in the
darkness of immemorial forests, the wild
beasts still live in peace.

If you had never seen me, it would
have been well for you,' he said, with a
sudden sense of self-reproach.

When you are content, it is well with
me ; so well ! ' she said softly.

The very tenderness of the answer galled
him ; he passed it over.

Saturnino did not mean you well,' he

said bitterly. 'He said to me — "a fawn's
throat is soon slit." '

That was only because he has been a
bad man, and cruel all his years, and his
knife always ready. He knew well that
you would not hurt me.'

'Have I not hurt you? Heaven pardon
me ! ' he murmured, and he kissed her.

Sometimes he seemed in his own si dit
what men would have called him — a base
coward.

You hurt me when I think you wish
yourself away she said timidly under her
breath ; and he said to her in answer :

'Nay, not away from you, but free to
go out into the light, free to feel the wind on
my face, and hear the stir of the world once
more. Ah, dear ! if they had opened his cage
door for that vulture that I told you of, I
think he would have found strength, even
in his paralysed wings, to rise and go.'

Perhaps,' she said simply, and said no
more.

But that night, in her sleep, she
sobbed bitterly, and she dreamed that she
watched a flock of flamingoes, as she had
watched one many a time, going westward,
rose-red against the blue sky, and she

K 2

thought that their wings were so ruddy of
hue because they had been dipped in her
own heart's blood, and she grew fainter and
fainter the further they flew, and when they
were lost to sight in the gold haze of the
sun, then her life went from her and she
sank clown and died.

In Mantua that night, an old man sat
writing in an ancient house looking on the
Lao di Mezzo, and having its foundations
sunk deep down amongst the reeds and
osiers and the shifting sands. There was no
sound but such as came from the hoarse
chorus of the frogs that thronged the lake,
and now and then a bittern's call or an owl's
hoot. In the city, now dark with the gloom
of a moonless midnight, the white marble
of a mausoleum, with a lamp burning ever
before it, was shut away behind the stately
doors of the noble church of S. Andrea ;
and that tomb, with its guardian angels, was
raised to the memory of his wife, who had
died young whilst he was old. What
he wrote now at the leather-covered table,
by the light of oil wicks burning feebly,
was his own confession that he had killed
her with a dagger which her lover had left
in her chamber in carnival time.

A pale-faced foreigner had haunted his

• steps for weeks and months, had traced all
his past years almost hour by hour, had
pieced together a million fragments of infinitesimal
evidence, fine as dust, that thus
assembled made a tale written on granite ;
had found out old servants, and made them
speak in secrecy under their oath ; and when
the proof was so complete and overwhelming
that no denial of or escape from it was
possible, had come straight to the worthy
judge of the civil court whom Mantua
reverenced, and had said to him four words,
only :

1 You were the murderer.'

With the eye of a trained man of the
law, the masked assassin knew at a glance
that there was no loophole of escape for
him ; that this pale stranger, come he knew
not whence, and working to what end he
could not tell, had pulled down all his
careful fabric of fraud and falsehood, and
hemmed him in between two stone walls
of evidence.

He confessed : seeing in that act some
paltry chance of life and public pity, and
wrote out his confession and signed it.

When on the morrow he was in the

Lands of justice, and conveyed to the
prisons of the city, the task of Maurice .
Sanctis was over, the gift that he would
give to Este was complete. Greater gift
than this of freedom can no man give to
another.

4 1 myself will tell him,' he thought,
on the eve of that memorable day when the
people of Mantua gathered about the
marble tomb of Donna Aloysia, and talked
in the narrow contract of the city of this
strange tragedy which had come in fresh
guise to their mouths to help them pass the
long, hot, empty hours.

But that night Mantua, as though
jealous that a stranger from beyond the
snowy mountains on the Lombard frontier
should have come there to seize its secrets
from out of its dark old palaces, that have
seen so many crimes and kept so many
mysteries untold, Mantua, as though
angered against him, poured into, his throat
the poison of her subtle vapours, of her
fever mists, that lurk for ever amidst her
long fields of reeds and her pale-gleaming
water-meadows.

That night he fell ill.

With morning he had almost lost consciousness.

The people where he lodged,
being frightened, called in Italian leeches,
who, true to their school, drew blood from
the body that needed all its strength, and
then did little else. Without them his constitution
might have done battle with the
disease and conquered it, but, bled to utter
weakness, he had no force left in him to
resist the destroying power of that fatal
and insidious venom.

By the part he had taken in the detection
and accusation of Donna Aloysia's
husband, the city had learned his name
and his place in art and fame ; but wiser
science was too late summoned : he died
on the fifth night, before even his own people
could come to him from over the mountains.


His window was open to the wide
waters, to the bulrush-thickets, to the slow-gliding
Mincio that had given him his death :
at this last hour, some sense returned to
him, and lie strove in agony to speak, gasping
for breath the while.

But the utter blank of death soon came
upon him, and lie perished miserably, with
only hirelings and strangers about him, as
the midnight hours were tolled from the

IN MAREMMA.

belfries, and the moon-rays slanting across
the water fell through the casement of
what had once been Donna Aloysia's
chamber, and gleamed on the old gold of
the baldacchino above the empty bed.

\HE summer passed on and entered
the sign of the lion once
again, and more than a year had
gone since that night when she had
come down the steps of the tombs and found
a nameless fugitive seated by her hearth. All
the summer, since he had forbade her going
into the towns to sell her work, they had
had but little food. It was the season of
the year when the woods yielded the least,
when it was hardest without goinsx far
afield to get enough to make even a slender
meal. The wild oats indeed she had cut
and threshed and kept; but such grain is
unpalatable, and yields but little nutrition,
and ill sustains the strength of a man.

Her old carling care came back on her ;

she saw that he grew paler again and
thinner, and a terror seized her lest again
the miasma of the land should take hold of
him in his weakness. So strong was this
fear, so vivid were her memories of that
awful fever fiend with which he had
wrestled, half-dead, so long, that she passionately
besought him to grant her leave
to go and sell her store of work and bring
him back food and wine.

He himself began to see that they could
not long continue to live thus, and let an
unwilling assent be wrung from him. After
all, too, he cared less. She had a lovely
face, but he had looked on it so long that
he knew its every line by heart, and thought
he could have moulded it in clay with his
eyes shut.

She was always there ; that was her
only fault to him. Perhaps it was the
most fatal fault of all.

Therefore he let her go on this errand
without objection, and bade her take with
her a few of the trifles he had modelled :
he fancied they might bring in a few pence.

She could not bear to leave him for a
day, but she knew not what else to do.
There was no one she could seek aid from

within reach, nor could she have trusted any

living creature with his secret.

She could not see him waste away for
the bare need of food, and she was well
aware how the poison mists that rose at
sunset from every morass and every stream
seized on empty viscera and impoverished
blood.

She clung about his throat, and kissed
him with tender passion ; then she went.

She had lost her buoyant vigour of
movement ; she had felt unwell the last
few weeks and did not know what ailed
her ; but she summoned her courage and
her strength, walked to the coast, and there
set sail in her little boat, that had the pine-bough
at its prow. The morning was fine
and calm ; the sea was blue and so were
the skies ; there was no chance of foul
w r father. It would have been nearer to
have crossed the country on foot to Telamonee
; but she did not feel as strong as
usual, and the linen she had spun and the
matting she had made were heavy to carry.

The sea was quiet ; there was wind
enough to fill her little sail, and what
there was favoured her. Under the easy
motion of the boat, with the play of air

and light around, she recovered her natural
spirit ; she sat and steered and now and
then thrust an oar in the water, that was
all. She wanted to make all the haste she
could ; she longed to be at home again,
carrying home good food and the red wine
that is man's strength.

She sailed in over the seaweed and the
sand of the choked-up bay of Telamone
under the shadow of its castle on the rock.
She moored her boat hastily and went into
the sorry place to try her fortune. The
townspeople, such a few as they were,
would buy nothing ; but there chanced to
be there a pedlar who had known her asa
child in the house of Joconda. He was
one of those who bring goods and news
together from the outer world into Maremma,
and round whose packs the housewives
and the gossips gather eagerly.

He was jovial, and not more unjust
than trade makes all traders, great and
small. He bought all she had of spun
linen at a fair price, and being a man who
knew the bigger towns and their tastes,
and went about with his merry eyes open,
he discerned at a glance the talent and
grace of the clay images, and bought them

also and shut them in his wooden brass-bound

box. Then lie persuaded a huckster of the
.oast to take her matting too, and altogether
made her passing rich.

c Nay, I knew Joconda forty years,' lie
said, ' and a good soul she was, though
silent as a supperless bell, but good and
sturdy and honest, and hospitable always if
she had but a crust.'

Then, being a chattering man, a bell
with more clapper to it than was needful,
he would ask her many questions, all of
which embarrassed her to answer. She
replied at random, vaguely, longing to get
away, and buy what she had come for, and
set sail again. But the pedlar was not
easily denied, and chattered on ; and then
out of a dirty lane came Andreino, who had
pulled himself over in his old punt from
Santa Tarsilla to speak sub rose of some
tobacco he had received contraband from
fishers of the French coast, and which he was
willing to sell, as he usually sold such good
consignments, to the parish priest of Telamone.

Andreino would be chatted with as welland
listened to, and was curious, and hard
to pacify, as he hobbled by her side to the
edge of the shallow anchorage.

Had she come by the sea? Was she
living as far off as the foundries, then?
No? Under the mountains? Then why
come by sea? She looked grand and
proud ; a little pale, but quite a woman
now. .Had she no wooers ? Was she still
the Musoncella? Well, time would cure
her of that. And then the sly old man
looked at her sideways, and said with a
low chuckle :

And the youth that was sick, my
dear ? Do you make the must to him
too ? Eh — eh ? I fancy not ! Well, pluck
your cherries while they are ripe ; the
cherry time soon passes.'

The only answer she gave him was the
hot blush that came over all her face, and
he chuckled the more.

Then all at once he said to her :

8 There is a fine piece of news put up
all down the coast. But no doubt, my
dear, you have seen it ; though in that
cherry-time I talked of most of you are
blind. But if you do know that stray
dog, you may as well get the reward for him.'

A stray dog ? ' she repeated. She was
ready to help any dog, for sake of dead
Leone.

A dog that will pay well,' said the
old man with a grin. ' You can read ; I
have only heard tell of it; look, it is up on
the tower there.'

The south wall of the old martello
tower in which the coastguard had of yore
been located had a large white placard on
it, covered with printed letters that were
only confused lines and dots of black from
where Andreino was sitting. It was but a
step to the wall, and she went up to the
proclamation.

What she read, printed there, was the
declaration of the pardon of the State to
an innocent man, in the common formula
of the law.

The published words stated that one,
Count Luitbrand teste, had been cleared of
the imputed crime of bloodguiltiness by
the confession, made in Mantua, of Ser
Piero di Albano, who had acknowledged
himself to have been the assassin of his
wife, Donna Aloysia Gorgias ; and who had
further declared that he had planned and
carried out the assassination in such wise
that the accusation of it should fall upon
his wife's lover, and be his vengeance of their
adultery.

It proceeded to declare that whereas,
by due surrender before the courts of law,
Piero di Albano had declared himself the
assassin of his wife, therefore he who had been
accused of and punished for the crime of
Donna Aloysia's murder was now declared
innocent and free of law ; and whosoever
might have seen him living, or heard of him
dead, was bidden under penalty to report
their knowledge to the State.

The print said, further, that a large
reward would be paid to whosoever should
either give information of the whereabouts
of the Count teste, escaped from the
Isle of Gorgonaa two years before, or proof
of his death, if it had been known to
take place.

She read this, standing in the sunshine,
with the wall before her, and about her the
buzz of the people's voices.

She stood gazing stupidly at the white
sheet fastened up there upon the old, red,
peeling, heat-cracked bricks.

Then the sea and the earth seemed to
heave and rise up before her, as they do
in an earthquake, and a great darkness
came down, as from heaven, over her
eyes.

The world was gained for him ; but he
was lost for her.

He would go away !

That was the one thought standing out
from the blackness which seemed to have
fallen over her like a veil flung by Rome
unseen hand.

Then, quick as a snake darts out of its
hole in the ground, another thought crossed
and supplanted that one. She remembered
that unless she told him he would never
know.

Not a soul but herself and Maurice
Sanctis knew that he lived. Not a tongue
save theirs could tell of his hiding-place.
Not a living creature would he ever dare
to accost ; no human eyes would ever behold
him.

With the instinctive concealment of her
race, which is in the Latin temper side by
side with so much fire and fury, she turned
from the wall with no evidence of any
emotion on her face or in her voice.

1 The law makes blunders, and people
suffer them,' she said simply to And rein o,
who shrugged his shoulders despairingly.

They say the law is never wrong,' he
answered, 'but were I that young man, I

VOL. III. L

would have some one's blood for being shut
up and chained, and all for nought. If hebe
living anywhere, methinks he will find
out his unjust judge and kill him.'

'Perhaps,' said Musa; but she did not
hear his words ; they were like the burr
of the water running underneath the old
stone piers, where some fisher folk were
busy setting their lobster-pots in the shallows.


Her head was throbbing quickly ; all
before her eyes seemed blood-reel ; at her
ear there was a sound like some one
whispering, ' why should he know ? why
should he know ? '

When he knew, he would go away.

With the profound humility which is
the characteristic of all great love, she knew
at once that he would go ; she never
doubted for a moment that she would have
no power to hold him.

She did not reason on it, or frame it
in any conscious formula, but her reason
told her that he would go, once learning
he was free.

Yet she bade Andreino a good-day in a
steady voice, threw her packages into the
boat, and set sail homeward.

The old man looked after the little
el as it wont over the waves, dipping

and righting itself with pretty ease.

1 Her lover cannot be that missing
youth of Mantua, 5 he thought, ' or never
would she have taken it so quietly. A
great reward, and a damno with a title to
his name ! Nay, nay, such good luck would
have turned her head. She used to be in
heaven when one but gave her a silly flower
or a shell.'

The boat went over the sea homeward.


It was now high noon.

The sea sparkled, blue as woodland
pimpernels, and ran merrily from under her
bows.

She was hardly conscious of anything
she did : she steered straight by sheer
force of habit, not seeing either the sky or
the water, either the pale white coast or
the dusky belt of the pines that divided
the beach from the hills.

When the boat was beneath the Sasso
Scritto, she ran it ashore, left it lying on
the sand, with the wine and the flour iu it
forgotten, and took her course over the

L '2

familiar moor and marsh and pasture
lying steaming in the sun.

Grey and opal hues were cast over the
land by passing clouds ; where some herds
were crossing it, a cloud of dust rose, dusky
and curled like smoke.

She traversed the well-known ways. The
sky and the earth seemed whirling round
her. Her feet moved without her knowing
it. Her body seemed one great pulse,
beating, beating, beating.

She never thought of his innocence
being made known ; had she not always
known it? What she thought of only was
this ; as soon as he was told, he would go.

Need he ever be told ?

She held him as one holds a bird in
the hollow of the hand.

If she never unclosed her hand, he
would never go.

No, he need never be told : she said so to
herself as she walked : never, never.

If her mouth were shut, no other could
speak. He was hers, as the dead are the
earth's.

She could keep him close here, hers
only, hers absolutely. Was he not hers,
purchased by all that she could give, won

from the very edge of death, wrestled
for long with sickness and pain, and possessed
and adored?

But for her he had been ere now a lifeless
creature, fallen under some tangle of mastic,
some bush of malacca, eaten by the hogs
of the brake and the marsh, picked bare
to the bone by the birds of Maremma ; no
more than any rotting lizard or carcase of
a buffalo dead of drought.

She was but a wild creature of the
moors herself, with something noble in her
instincts born there as in a dog's, and with
something of strength and faithfulness taught
her by Joconda.

Her first impulses were of passion and
of possession.

He was hers, here, in the shadowy
caverns of the earth. Why should she lose
him to the world of light, that unknown
world where she had neither place nor
part?

His water-city that he loved ; the
women leaning from their lattices, with
the pearls braided in their hair ; the
hum of strange towns, the stir and strife
of streets, the laughter and the music,
the learning and the love, the jocund

comedy and bitter tragedy that jostle each
other on the stage of life — why should
these become her rivals? She could not
contend with them ; they were to her
known only through his words ; they were
mere phrases to her, but she feared them.

She vaguely pictured, beyond the opaline
horizon of her plains, brilliant and shadowy
hosts, dream-cities, golden gates of ivory
palaces, faces of women lovely as the
opening blossoms of the lily and the rose.
Why should she yield him up to these ?

She walked across the width of white
sunshine shining on the dust, and said in
her heart : ' I will never tell ; I will never
tell.'

She was not conscious of any treachery
in her resolve ; she had only the barbarian's
instinct to hold and keep.

They were so happy ; so it seemed to
her. She would have wanted nothing
more all her life long than to live on in
that solitude, and spin, and weave, and
hunt, and fish, and bake bread, all for him,
enough repaid by a caress, a murmur, even
a mere glance.

She walked with dull step and heavily-throbbing
heart over the sunburnt earth.

The many miles seemed like a rood, yet
they cost treble the time to traverse than
ever they had cost her before.

The old joy with which she had always
seen the brown swell of the uplands, the
blasted stem of the big cork tree, was all
gone. She was afraid to see them now, the
burden of this knowledge being shut up in
her breast.

It seemed to her as if iron w r ere bound
about her ankles ; the placid, drowsy amber
light seemed like a wall of steel between
herself and him. Without knowing what
she feared, she was afraid to look upon his
face with this secret withheld.

They had always met each other as
simply, as naturally, as two blossoms that
blow together in the summer breeze, as
two children that run to meet and play.
But already the shadow of the thing she
knew, and would not reveal, w T went before
her, and would stand like a ghost from the
grave between his life and her own.

The heat was very great ; it was a heat
as if the fires, burning in the woods and on
the mountains, had coursed down in streams
of flame and licked up all the beauty of the
earth as prairie-fires do.

It was only the scorch from the blaze of
the sun at his zenith, but it was terrible. The
very toads were panting, sunk downward in
the lowest deeps of the pools. The buffaloes
and the boars buried themselves low in beds
of canes and cotton-grass ; the birds were all
still ; only the tree-frog shouted in the shrubs,
and the snake lay basking and happy on the
sand ; the wild mares and their foals could
scarce drag one hoof after another ; but she
was insensible to the sun-rays, that darted
at her like arrows red-hot, and lapped her
with tongues of flame, and lay on all the
land around her like a plague.

She thought only of this secret she
carried in her brain. Would he whom she
loved not read it in her eyes ?

She would never tell him.

That fierce tenacity which was in her
blood, as it had been in Saturnino's,
fastened on to the one resolve and clung
to it.

For the time all that was passionate,
violent, fierce, selfish, held their sway, and
all she thought of was to hold and keep
him, as the child in the cruelty of his
possession holds the poor bird it loves until
it dies strangled in his embrace,

For die time she did not even realise
that what she would do was base. She
only remembered that he was hers, that if
the world took him he would be hers no
more.

Yet, though she was not fully conscious
of the treachery she meditated, all the speed
and gladness with which hitherto she had
always flown homeward to him had gone
from her heart and from her feet.

She went on more slowly than her wont
across the grass ; unwillingness to look
upon his face had taken the fleetness from
her steps. Without her consciousness of it,
this secret which she would keep, this
w T long that she meant to do, was already
a barrier between herself and him.

When she had drawn quite near the
myrtle-brake above the place of the tomb,
she stopped, and for the first time in all
her life she trembled. If he should read
what she had seen upon her face !

With a desperate hand she pushed away
the brambles and went down into their
place of refuge.

Even here in the heart of the soil the heat
had penetrated. The air even underground
was heavy and warm, and with little power

in if .- Lungs of man or

In utter chamber, where the most

air cam Este was lying asleep.

He was st down for coolness on the

pier where she had seen thee

in his armour of gold. He looked like

a dead man. E w - very pale, his chest

sea: . as he breathed, his lips

-hut. his long lashes rested on



shirt he wore fell off his

and b . the emaciated bones,

and the :wish beating of his

heart. In his noonday sleep he looked

red, hopeless, heart-broken.

Idenly, as if it were written in letters

of fire above his head, she saw the truth :

die was but his prison,
ha was her heaven was but at best
■ : . with to him.

aking him she went away
and climbed again into the upper air ; and

jarucea and myrtle made

•* «.

the place of the tombs, she
k of palombino, stunned
i b-
At sight of him she had known the



baseness of the thing that she would
do.

She saw herself as guilty, as cruel, as
vile as he who betrayed with a kiss, whose
memory has come down through all the ages
as the traitor of all traitors.

V

;HE sat in the hot air ami felt
neither heat nor fatigue, though
she had walked nigh twenty
miles since daybreak. An adder
crawled by her under the dry grass,
and she saw it not. She was struggling
with herself, with all her ignorance, her
strong instincts, her absorbing passions, her
unutterable love for this the only living
thing she cared for out of all the universe.

Had he been left to her, all the nations
of the earth might have perished in droves
like oxen that die of pest and drought, and
she would have looked on indifferent.

She sat here, in the silence and the
sultriness of the day, like a statue of bronze
set upon the dry and cracking ground.

She was quite motionless ; the folded
linen on her head kept off her face the
vertical rays of the sun, but they fell
unfelt on all her crouched form, on her closed
hands that were resting on her drawn-up
knees, and on her tired feet, past which the
adder slid unseen.

She had no knowledge, no experience,
but she had imagination.

Imagination showed her the world that
waited for him outside that girdle of the
moors that held her fast. The vision was
in no way like the real world, but it was
lovelier, richer, fuller ; such a world as
haunts poets in the dreams of a summer's
night, crowded with shapes divine and
clothed in light.

Here he was hers, but there

i^he had no hope, no illusions.

She never thought once that he would
say to her, ' come also ; ' she never doubted
that he would take his freedom as the
storm-swallow had done, spreading its wings
without once looking back.

Whether she stayed there moments or
hours she knew not ; the great heat falling
upon her seemed to numb her as if it were
a rain of ice. Her eves grew strained and

bloodshot, her veins swelled and grew dark,
her mouth was parched as with great thirst.
Still she never moved, she was unconscious
of physical suffering, she was saying always
to herself — ' He will go ! he will go ! '

The most terrible, the most cruel temptation
that any human soul could ever
know assailed her.

Almost she felt as if the priestly
fables were true ; as if the Power of Evil
in bodily shape stood over her in the
burning heat, with vast black wings outstretched
above her head.

4 Oh, dear God, help me ! ' she cried
aloud in utter agony.

All that was violent, imperious, and sinful
in her sided with the mighty passion she bore
her lover, and urged her to bury for ever this
secret, which would put an end to all her
joy, and give him to the world. All that was
noble, tender, and full of the impulse of
self-sacrifice in her heart told her that to
be false to him, to deceive him, to destroy
his life that it might slowly consume itself
away within her arms, would be as base as
though she killed him sleeping.

The darkness and the light strove for
the mastery over her.

Lie was like one torn in pieces by
ravenous beasts that rent her asunder.

The sun was going towards the west,

CO '

but was still high in the heavens, whose
cloudless space looked grey beside the deep
and sparkling azure of the sea, when to
her car there came a low mint sound ; it
was the voice that she loved calling to her,
timidly and with caution, from below the
nightshade and the acanthus foliage.

He wondered, and was afraid, at her long
absence.

The sound pierced her apathy, and
roused her, as a child's cry does its mother
after birth.

She rose to her feet.

Her bright clear skin was pallid and
dull ; her throat was dry ; her brain was
hot, and beating in her skull.

She looked once over the yellowed
moors and up to the cloudless skies, as a
beast that is hunted to the death will do,
seeking for pity, finding none.

She drew her belt close about her
loins, as though she went to combat, then
plunged without pause into 'the twilight of
the tombs.

Ere he could speak, she cried to him,

hoarsely, with her parching tongue, out of
her swollen throat :

4 They have set you free ! Go yonder,
read it.'

He looked at her, and trembled violently.


He stood just within the entrance of
the sepulchre ; and as she spoke, such a
change came over all his face as comes to
a dead man galvanised into sudden life.
His lips, his eyes, his whole frame seemed
suddenly to grow instinct with life and
light and wonder, and rapture and radiance.
He caught hold of her with both
hands.

What ? what ? ' he said, with tremulous
force. ' What do you say to me ?
Tell me again — quick, quick ! '

It seemed to her as if all his life would
go out of him in that passion of hope ; as
if he would dissolve into the air and vanish,
as the Etruscan king had done.

He vibrated from head to foot with
passionate desire.

She could not bear to look at him or
feel his hand upon her.

It is true,' she muttered hoarsely, as
she shook herself loose. ' Go and see it

1G1

for yourself. The old man has confessed
They look for you ; you are free.'

Then she glided out of his hold entirely
and went away into the darkness of
inner chambers.

VOL. lit.

M

stood mute and motionless

awhile. Then, as the truth was

borne in on him, tears gushed

from his eyes like rain, and

he laughed long and laughed loud, as

madmen do.

He never doubted her.
He sprang up the stone steps, and leapt
into the open air : into that light of day
which he had been forbidden to see so long.
To stand erect there, to look over the
plains, to breathe, and move, and gaze,
and stretch his arms out to the infinite
spaces of the sea and sky — this alone was
so intense a joy that he felt mad with it.

Never again to hide with the snake and
the fox ; never again to tremble as his

shadow went beside liii on the sand; never
to waste the sunlit hours hidden in the
bowels of the earth ; never to be afraid of
every leaf that stirred, of every bird that
flew, of every moonbeam that fell across
his path ! — he laughed and sobbed with the
ecstasy of his release.

6 God, Thou hast not forgotten ! ' he
cried in that rapture of freedom.

All the old childish faiths that had
been taught to him by dim old altars in
stately Mantuann churches came back to his
memory and heart.

On the barren rock of Gorgonaa he had
cursed and blasphemed the Creator and
creation of a world that was hell; he had
been without hope ; he had derided all the
faiths of his youth as illusions woven by
devils to make the disappointment of man
the more bitter.

But now r , in the sweetness of his liberty,
all the old happy beliefs rushed back to
him ; he saw deity in the smile of the seas,
in the light upon the plains.

He was free !

He laughed again, as children do in utter
gladness, the great tears coursing down his
cheeks.

M 2

Man had remembered him, and God released
him !

He was so happy.

Only through his heart one sharp pang
shot, as though a dagger pierced it.

They could give him back his freedom
and his youth, but never more could life
return to that dead woman slain, in the
season of her youth, by the waters of
Mantua.

Free awhile, when some calm
had in a measure succeeded to
that intoxication of wonder and
of thanksgiving, he went within
and called to her.

Her voice answered him from the innermost
chamber, where was the coffin of
Joconda.

1 1 am tired,' she said gently ; ' let merest.'


But tell me, tell me once more,' he
urged with nervous eagerness ; ' this is true ?
Beyond doubt ? What is it you have seen ? '
4 What I said. It is printed on the
walls. Take the boat and go. You will
see and hear what I have said.'
4 You are sure it is no snare ? '

I am quite sure. Let me rest a little.'

Her voice was weak and broken.

He had no ear to notice that.

He thought only that she was sure —
sure — sure. Then it was no dream. He
was indeed free.

She was then standing within a foot of
him in the grey gloom of the tomb that had
been his home so long ; but she was no
more living for him. What were alive were
the throngs of men in the cities, were the
laughter of women and their dances, were
the ways of the world and its gladness, and
its dreams, and its passions, and its strife :
all that he had been a stranger to so long ;
all that the youth in him sighed for, imprisoned
here in the night of the grave.

He was not more ungrateful than the
storm bird had been ; only in him, as in
that, there moved the irresistible instincts of
movement, the longing to spread wings to
the air and go. And in that tumult of emotion
and aspiration, and remembrance and desire,
she who gave him his liberty was forgotten,
as she had been forgotten by the bird. It
was natural, and she understood it. She
had not looked for any other thing. Only
she said once more, ' I am tired.'

She was tired, no doubt, going all
those roads over the hot earth beside the
mule to get him bread ; but he did not
think of it. The whole world had changed
for him ; life smiled at him once more.

Oh the joy, only to sit unmolested in the
public square, and see the careless crowd
go by, and feel the sun and wind upon
his cheek !

That she was tired he had no leisure
to remember. All the memories of his
past were thronging about him like brothers
and sisters giving welcome from long
absence.

His heart was in that silent town
amongst the shadowy waters, where he
had drifted on his oars under the swell of
the deep brazen bells of Ave Maria, and
where he had seen the glisten of the lilies
in the moonbeams when Death had slept
with his mistress.

She was tired, no doubt ; but all at
once she fell back to nothing in his life ;
she vanished from it as a pluckt rose that
drops to pieces goes silently away out of a
careless hand.

1 My dear ! come forth and speak to me,'
he said, with a sound of joy in his voice

such as she had never heard in it even when
he had first said ' you love me ! '

Wait a little,' she answered him ; and
in a few moments she came out to him,
thankful that the light of the tombs was
so feeble.

He caught her hands.

8 Oh tell me, tell me again, it is true
indeed ? Tell me all they say.'

She answered him in a strange measured
voice, as though she recited a lesson.

They offer five thousand lire to whosoever
can tell where you are. Perhaps
your people put it there. It said that the
old man has confessed himself guilty of
his wife's murder, and that the State pardons
you because you are innocent ; that
I do not understand '

It is the common formula when the
law has been at fault and condemned the
wrong person,' he said quickly, a joyous
agitation still trembling in him. ■ ' Yes, yes,
no doubt my poor mother offers the reward.
What she has suffered! You are
sure you read it all ? '

1 Quite sure.'

He did not observe her, or he would
have seen that the calm she had by

such effort attained was strained almost to
bursting.

She stood a little away from him ; her
head was bent, her hands were clasped
one in another.

Once, she thought, perhaps now that he
was free to go where he listed he would
remember the promise she had given
Joconda, the promise she had broken for
him, and would say — c shall we go up to
the house of God together ? '

A vague expectancy, too faint and too
unformed to be a hope, came to her fora
moment. But the great humility and
resignation of her love for him made her
doubt whether he would even remember
her, once having back his liberty and the
world, and not one syllable escaped her lips
to recall either his duty or his debt to him.

I think I am mad,' he said, with a
gay, unsteady laugh. ' I feel as if I had
drunk new wine ; the place goes round
with me ! Ah, to be free, to be free '

She will not rise again to welcome
you,' she said in a low and bitter voice.

For the first time she felt a throb of
pity for the woman whose memory she
had abhorred ; they were alike forgotten.

Hush ! you are cruel,' he said angrily.
'Do you think I did not remember? I
would give my liberty up now — now — to
make her living once more ! '

There was the vibration of true passion
in the words ; the woman dead in Mantua
was dearer to him still than she who had
given him a love surpassing human love
in its sacrifice and its effort.

She was silent.

He stood silent also ; unconscious that
he was cruel, as men mostly are.

They rarely wound because they wish
to wound, but because they do not remember,
do not understand, . do not measure
the pain with which women love
them.

Might I go and read that, think you ? '
he said suddenly. ' It may be best to
lose no moment of time in showing them
I live — some impostor may cozen them —
if you will not feel me unkind. Oh,
heavens ! if you knew — if you only knew —
how I long to walk out amongst men in
the bright broad day once more ! '

Go ; go at once,' she said to him, still
with that strange faintness and constraint
in her voice, which he did not notice.

4 The boat is there ; you can find the shore
without me ; I — am — tired.'

C I will go, then, and I will return by
nightfall, by midnight at the latest. Ah,
dear, forgive me if I speak like a drunken
man — I feel drunk — drunk with joy ! Sweet
one, kiss me and farewell ; farewell fora
few hours ! Dear, you have been tome
what no living man could merit in
any living woman ! Often have I felt
ashamed '

Hush ! ' said Musa, and she strove to
smile. It might be that never more would
she behold him ; she would not let him
hear one accent of reproach as her farewell.

He took her tenderly in his arms and
kissed her tenderly ; feeling indeed that all
the life he had to live on earth could never
be long enough to repay her all that she had
given to him, all that she had done for him
here in these twilit chambers of the Etruscan
dead. He kissed her again and yet
again ; then went.

He ascended again into the light and
air, and walked a few steps across the
ground.

It was so strange, so beautiful, s<> delicious,
this mere sense of utter liberty :

to stand and move erect in the sunshine of
the declining day without danger, without
terror, without being forced to scan the
furthest distance lest any living soul should
be in sight. Almost insensibly he moved
onward and onward, and it seemed to him
as if the dry turf were velvet and the hot
air a caress from heaven.

Across the moor he saw the azure glisten
of the sea ; the boat was there.

Insensibly he walked onwards, his feet
elastic as the deer's that goes to drink at the
forest spring at daybreak.

The sun was now near its setting.
Maremma saw that western pomp and
splendour in its uttermost perfection, its
low shores shelving to the sea that rolls
away to Spain and Africa. All colours of
all jewels known to men glowed there, where
the great beams shot upward, like archangels'
spears. A storm afar off, beyond the headlands
of Sardinia, gave majesty and magnificence
to the hour. Low down, southward,
dark purples and crimsons strove together,
and a beam of lightning ever and again
flashed ziof-zas; athwart them. But these were
distant, and did not disturb the golden
serenity, the rose-like radiance, of the

immediate west, where the sun hung still
high above the waters, one white sail and
one brown crossing each other full in the
effulgence of its rays.

He had not beheld the sun since, tortured
with heat and thirst, he had drifted face
upwards, hopeless, and seeing no escape
from the galleys save in such death
as he would find sinking to those depths
below him, where the shark and the octopus
waited for drowned men. It allured
him with sweet unconquerable attraction.
He went softly, almost insensibly, on and on,
over the sand and the grass ; his head held
high, his eyes happy, his breath coming
quickly and gladly, like the sighs of love
that is content.

The sea was there ; the world was beyond ;
men would welcome him back in their midst.
A vague sense of shame, of duty, of ingratitude,
drew him backward like an unwelcome
hand ; but it had not strength to
detain him.

I will come to her ; I will send for her,'
he said to himself; and he continued to
walk on and on, through the luminous warm
air, towards the shining of the blue waters
through the red-brown stems of the pines.

He was so happy ; he could not stay to
look behind. He longed for the voices of
the world, for the hum and the laughter of the
streets, for the sound and the sense of living,
for the dark old houses leaning above the
silvery shallows of Mantuann waters, while the
lute throbbed below and the human heart
beat above !

Away there, north and south, and east
and west, the earth was alive with the mirth
and the music and the triumphs and the
passions of men.

He forgot that there were pain and
privation and struggle and sorrow there
also ; he only remembered the world as an
orchard of fruit and of flowers, fair to
behold and to taste, full of sunshine
eternal, and musical with tireless song. That
winter came there, and sickness, and grief,
and death, he had forgotten.

The boat was on the edge of the sea,
tied by a rope to a pine-tree, and with the
oars of it lying on the beach.

I will come back to her,' he thought,
and he pushed the little skiff through the
loose yellow sand to the surf.

For a moment it ploughed the soil, sullenly
grating on the pebbles as it went ; in

another moment it floated buoyant and
borne up by the water.

He sprang over its side, and plunged
the blades of the oars in the sea.

The breeze that comes a thousand miles
in a breath blew a scent of orange-flowers
from the woods high above in the north.

His nostrils drew in with delight the
sweet familiar scent ; his lips laughed ; his
heart rose ; he set the head of his boat
northward, and rowed straight for where the
orange-trees grew, and ran down to the sea
and kissed it.

WEEK went by and he did not
return. To her it seemed as
if the whole peopled world was
dead.
A great despair fell on her, numbing,
deadening, destroying all her life as paralysis
falls upon the body and enchains it. No
tears came to her eyes ; no sound came to
her lips. She was like a creature suddenly
struck dumb.

She crouched in a corner of the inner
chamber by Joconda's coffin, and stayed
there as a frightened animal whose spirit is
all gone out in terror, crouches in a corner,
refusing in the stupidity of its fear even
to take what would keep life in it.

A week went by, and she crept up into

the air, and sat half the hot hours through
under the tall tree-heaths in the sand ;
looking, looking, looking across those sunburnt
levels over which he had passed away
to the unknown world. For all that seemed
left to her of him, it might have been but a
dream that ever she had found him there,
seated beside the embers of her fire on that
August eve.

She was not surprised that he had gone.
She had never thought that he would stay,
once knowing.

He had gone ; she did not reproach
him ; she did not even wonder. She would
have wondered if he had stayed.

She had known very well that when she
had told him he was free she had drawn the
knife across the throat of her living joy and
killed it for ever.

She did not reason on it, or protest
against her doom ; it seemed to her inevitable,
as that when the sun rose darkness
lied. The instinctive fatalism, the strange
passivity, that are in the southern temper, and
succeed its gusts of passion, its heat of rage
or love, made her accept her abandonment
as a thing not to be questioned ; to be borne
as any visitation of nature is borne by the

VOL. III. N

earth, though it trembles and changes as the
earthquake destroys or the flood effaces it.

Thought seemed dead in her, dead withall
other forms of life.

He was gone, he was hers no more ; this
was all that she knew.

To her as to him who mourned for
Daphnis in the Sicilian vales, it seemed as
though the very flowers of earth must lament
his loss, and the very stone of the rock sigh
because it no more could echo to his voice.
To her all creation seemed stricken, deserted,
mute.

Her happiness was dead, and all living
things seemed to her to die with it.

The terrible days, the yet more terrible
nights, dragged on ; the vacant hours with
no pulse of gladness beating in them passed
away in slow procession. No more did she
rise and greet the sun with smiling eyes ; no
more did the twilight seem a messenger of
heaven ; no more was every breath a sigh of
deep content.

No more : no more.

The silence that follows on separation
has a likeness so frightful to the eternal
separation of death that it brings with it the
same unspeakable terror, the same sense of

endless, unutterable loss. It is separation,

not sleep, that is death's image.

Her soul was dark and empty, like the
spent lamp and the dry cup that he had
need of no longer.

The light of the world burned now for
\iim, and he could drink from the springs of
the world's pleasure-places. He did not want
these sad and humble things of hers. She
rebelled no more than the earthen vessel
and the bronze lamp rebelled because they
lay untouched.

N 2

§^N the seventh morning there
came across the moors the shadows
of a man and of a mule.
Standing, looking with tearless,
aching eyes along those sunburnt levels over
which he had gone, her heart gave a leap
of rapture and her face grew warm with
blood as she saw a human figure through
the haze of heat. He had come back !

Soon that joy, too exquisite to live
longer than a breath, was broken roughly.
It was a stranger who stood beside the
laden mule, his face and figure were unknown
to her. She dropped back into her
attitude of crouching hopeless apathy.
What was any pedlar or other traveller
across the plains to her ?

The mule came on and was led beside
the trunk of the cork tree, and the man
who led it called aloud to her, ' Is it you
who live beneath the ground here ? If it be
you indeed, I have a letter '

At that word she leapt to her feet,
changed in an instant, as the dry wood is
changed when the rosy flame catches it.

'Is he well?' she cried. 'The letter!
the letter ! Give me, quick.'

The Count teste, my master, is well and
in Mantua,' the man answered. ' He sent me
here with these ; he bade me get a mule at a
town on the shore ; he bade me see you
myself and take him all tidings ;

1 The letter ! the letter ! ' she cried, with
her hands outstretched.

He gave it to her.

Oh, dear God ! what a blessed things
is that I can read ! ' she thought as she
seized it ; herself transformed, her cheeks
the colour of the wild rose that was
burning on a hundred hills and vales, all her
whole face instinct with life and rapture and
gratitude and wonder ; wonder that he had
remembered, he who never in any moment
of her life was absent from her memory.

4 Wait without she said to him, and

hurried down the stone steps of the
tombs.

She could not bear that a stranger's eyes
should see her happiness.

It was hard for her to read written
words, she had seen so few.

But love aided her ; she read it trembling
in every limb.

It was not long.

It gave her tender names and words ;
it begged forgiveness that he had been
unable to return ; he had been compelled
to leave at once for Mantua ; there he
had learned that no good thing comes
alone, that not only had the law freed
him, but that he had inherited the vast
property and the palace in Borne of a
distant relative on his mother's side from
whom he had never expected aught. This
heritage took him to Borne at once, where
henceforth he would spend much time ; soon
he would come to her or send for her.

4 What can I say to you ? I owe you so
great a debt ; it weighs me down,' he wrote
in conclusion. ' Think me not heartless that
I fled. Nay, dear, it is only that liberty is so
rapturous a joy, it makes one mad, when for
so long one has been thirsty for it. I send

you a few things that women care for ; mere
nothings, indeed, but the)* will remind you
of me. Soon I will come to you or send for
you. I took your boat with me and lost it,
but you will need it no more, for you must
leave that wretched life you lead at once.
Go where you will and tell my messenger
where I shall find you. Love me always.'

And as he had written those words he
had thought :

1 Will she be for ever on my life F
I owe her so much, but — but — what shall
I do with her in the world ? She is but a
beautiful barbarian, and she will never understand,
and she will be for ever like a
chain about my feet. And all I want is to
forget — to forget ! '

She read the letter once — twice — thrice.
Inside it was a roll of bank-notes bearing
the cipher of a large sum.

If he had killed her she would have
kissed his hand as it took her life ; and it
would have hurt her less.

There was on the slab of nenfro near her
paper and a pencil which she had bought lor
him long before that he might make drawings
for the clay he moulded.

She could write very ill, in the large,

straggling, ill-shaped letters which were all
she had been taught.

She wrote thus, with much labour, on a
sheet of the paper, — ' I am well. I want
nothing. I am yours always ; there is no
need to say it. I send you back all the
things you send because I wish not for gifts
and have no need of money. I shall be
always here. Think not of me save when
you desire.'

Then she signed it tua eternal devote, and
put it up in a packet with the bank-notes.
His letter she thrust into her bosom.

She went up into the light ; the messenger,
who was an old servant of the house in
Mantua, thought, as he saw the change in
her face, ' Was the letter cruel ? why did he
not come himself? '

He had undone his burden, which was
one of the great Italian nuptial caskets, velvet*
studded and metal-bound. He had spread
out upon the grass some of its contents.
They were things of great delicacy and
value ; strings of pearls, fine raiment,
eastern stuffs, jewels. At them she scarcely
glanced.

8 Put them all up,' she said to the messenger,
'and take them back to him and give

him this letter. I do not want anything ;
if he ask you, say I am quite well.'

The servant went back faith fully to
Mantua, and faithfully delivered the great
casket, and the poor, ill-written, humble, yet
proud words.

Este was deeply angered.

The words failed to touch his heart
because they stung his conscience.

Will she ask all my life ? ' he thought.

But she asked nothing. And the heroism
of her silence, as of her sacrifice, awed him,
oppressed him, humiliated him.

HE autumn came and passed, and
soon the green moist winter
returned to Maremma.

The rose-winged flamingoes
and the snow-white birds of the north few
over the sea : her lover returned not with
them.

But the knowledge of a great consolation
was come to her, and she bore the
anguish of her lonely, empty, cruel hours
with endurance, since when the March
hyacinths and asphodels should open to the
lio'ht she would hold a human blossom to
her breast.

She laboured hard in this winter time,

knowing that the season would soon come
when she could work no more.

Some instinct led her to make friends
with a woman at this time, the only woman
she had ever been near since Joconda died ;
a hard-featured, sunburnt, toil-bent creature
prematurely old from a hard toil, who
every year came down with her husband
and children, and flocks of sheep and goats,
all the way by the roads on foot, from the
chestnut woods above San Marcello to the
green pastures of Maremma. There are many
do the same ; it is a laborious life, always
beaten about by wind and weather, but the
hill-shepherds and herdsmen and their families
are used to it, and cling to it as gipsies
do. In summer they are up in their own
northern hills from hazel-time until the
chestnuts drop, and that return consoles
them and sustains them.

This woman she saw once, washing
linen by beating it with stones in a little
stream ; Musa gave her some bread she
carried and spoke to her ; the shepherd
and the ewes and rams were further off
upon the moors. The woman was not
curious or intrusive ; the hard life she had
led had blown and scorched and chilled and

drenched her with rains till she was scarcely
higher as an animal than her own mother-sheep,
who wanted nothing but to nibble
and browse and hear their lambs bleat
and lie safe at night.

She was stupid as a stone ; but she was
not unkind nor unfaithful. She kept the
secret of the tombs even from her own man,
and took a dull liking to this beautiful woodland
solitary so unlike herself, who gave her
food and helped her to beat her rags in
the water, and who looked to her so grand,
so fearless, so young, so fair, and yet had
the burden of women on her, and was all
alone.

Never saw I anything like her on these
pastures or above on our own hills,' she
thought often, and had a dim superstitious
fear of her, and obeyed her without hesitation,
and deemed herself paid abundantly by
a basket full of fungi or of arbutus-fruit for
her children, who were growing up as the
lambs and the kids do, tumbling with them
on the pastures.

Hers had been but a sorry life ; all winter
passed on the lonely moist meadows of Maremma,
all summer spent in hard work
upon the corn lands on the mountain sides

and the olive and the chestnut forests up
above, where the snow lay on the highest
rocks in June. It had made her dull, indifferent,
always tired ; but being an open-air
creature she was faithful.

She stayed beside Musa in the beaming
days of earliest spring, when the daffodils'
trumpets of gold were blowing in all the grass,
and the poet's narcissus was shining in every
shady place, and the eyes that loved them
could not rejoice in them, but were closed
on the blindness and languor of pain.

The child of Este was born with the
daffodils ; but he only breathed a few short
days after his birth, and died, softly and painlessly,
as the daffodils did when they had
bloomed their little hour.

The woman of the Apennines was
frightened, because for many hours she
could not take his small dead body from
Musa's hold ; when at last his mother could
be made to understand that dead indeed he
was, despair seized on hei long convulsions
succeeded to her passionate weeping.

If he had lived — if his little feet had runover
the grasses to her, if she had heard his
first laugh at the first flower ; if she had
seen Este's eyes smile again in his, and heard

the voice of Este in his broken babyish
murmurs ; if she had taught him to look with
tenderness at the little wren in her hole
and the brown coot on her waterside nest ; if
she had carried him on her shoulder to her
morning work upon the moors, and borne
him homeward with her as the evening bells
rang from the far hills and shores — if he had
lived, she would have loved her lover in him.

For him she would have worked day and
night as she had done for Este ; she would
have kept him fresh as the rose, fair to see
as the white birds from the north ; she
would have carried him in her strong young
arms, she would have taught him love as the
nightingale teaches its song to its offspring ;
she would have prayed for him, tended him,
cherished him, made him lovely in all ways,
and then perhaps one day she would have
taken courage and led him by the hand upto
his father's side, and said through him —
Love, who has ever loved as I ? '

But he was dead ; dead as the faded
narcissus shrunk away beneath the leaves.

All that could never be : never, never.

He was dead like the child Its, for
whom his mother mourns through all the
ages with every summer eve.

,v5>'^ r ^*Cy vl

\HE shepherd's wife went back to

the mountains with her flock as

the days of the spring lengthened

into midsummer, and the warm

winds came from the south and blew

amongst the ruddy wheat and the browned

hay-grasses.

Musa was once again utterly alone ; alone
with a grave the more ; a little grave, small
almost as if a bird were buried there, that
she had made herself with laborious effort in
the rocky floor and lined with rosemary as
the sedge-thrush lines its nest.

This was all that was left to her of her
love

But her lover lived still, though her i
could not behold him and his heart called

no more to hers ; he lived in that great unknown
world which had stolen and absorbed
him ; and therefore the courage of her life
came back to her after a time.

Some" day he might remember.

Some day he might have need of her.

So she lived on, and the warmth of the
year grew into full summer, and the field
flowers perished, as her little child had done,
under the unbearable light of the sun.

A strange silence seemed to her to
have fallen on all the world, although
around her in truth the solitary moors were
still musical with many a nightingale, and
many a cushat cried its happy call from
pine to pine, and across the far edge of the
great plains there went many a band of
reapers, come down from the mountains to
lay the tall wheat low, many of them going
by singing, w T with lutes strumming in front of
them, and dogs about their feet, and wild
magnolia flowers from old forsaken gardens
slung with the wine gourds and swinging
at their waists.

But they were too far off to be more
than distant dark lines against the sky,
and could their songs have reached her
she would have been deaf to them, as she

was to the nightingales thrilling through the
night in those last melodies that would cease
as the fire-flies would die with the fall of
the wheat.

Yet in this intense stillness and desolation
in which she dwelt it never came into her
thoughts to seek out Este, never at any time.
She could not go to him, without seeming to
say, ' Have you forgotten — you my debtor
in so much ? '

She could not go to him without bringing
both a rebuke and a reproach before
her. If he forgot — he must forget. All she
could do was to live on and wait ; some time
he might remember.

This seemed to her neither heroism nor
sacrifice, but simple necessity.

If he had passed by her in a crowd
she would have kissed the stones his steps
had touched, but she would not have
spoken, since to speak would have been to
say to him, ' You are thankless.'
Her love was her religion.
Fools may say what they will ; there is
none holier.

She lived on without joy, but not wholly
without hope. The long, slow-footed days
seemed very long ; the cloudy heat, the rain-vol,

tit.

IN MAREMMA.

less wind, seemed wearisome and sad. She
laboured enough, just enough, to meet her
barest wants ; no more.

She no more watched the stars, the
plants, the birds, the streams and shallows
with the blue butterflies at play upon their
surface.

Her youth seemed to have died in her
with the little child, her eyes seemed for ever
to be darkened with tears that never fell.

As each hour went by she thought,
1 Where is he ? who beholds him ? who
watches for his step ? '

When night fell, she prayed that in his
dreams he might once dream of her, and so
remember once.

Did he fear her reproaches that he did
not come ? Ah ! how little he knew !

1 8 she sat at the entrance of the

tombs on the day of the vigil

of St. John, watching — always

watching — for the shadow she

never saw, the step she never heard, there

crept slowly over the pathless turf two large

white bullocks yoked together.

There also was a group of men, seven in
all, who led the oxen ; and the ox-waggon
bore loads of masons' implements and cordage,
and empty sacks and baskets.

She did not notice them, except dully to
wonder what they came to do there, and to
be thankful that they had not come a year
earlier, when lie had hidden in the earth
under their feet.

They crept on straight over the moor,
and towards the hidden burial-place.

o 2

The foremost of them, who was a sullen-looking,
aged man, advanced from the resta
little, and approached her.

8 It is you who live below there ? ' he
cried roughly.

She was mute.

The old man was the steward of that
absent Neapolitan prince who owned the
house at Santa Tarsilla which had been
occupied by Joconda for so many years ;
the steward who at her sudden death had
made pretence of a year's rent being due,
and under that pretext sold her chattels.

To him there had gone a man of San
Lionardo, leading with him his little son, and
the two together had told him how on those
moors which had been for a thousand years
a portion of the fief of the Altamonte princes
there had been found bouche delle fate by a
girl, who had stolen the treasure possibly, and
made of the tombs her home. The little
boy, who was no other than ZefFerino, deposed
gravely to having seen mountains of gold
and jewels under the earth. In this country
vengeance may doze and wait, but does not
die.

The imagination and avarice of the
steward were inflamed to fever heat,

There had of late been discoveries of
tombs near Crcre to the south, in which had
been found vases of great worth, and quantities
of armour, shields, crowns, toys, and ornaments
of gold, all of which had been sold
for large prices to foreign States for their
museums. The steward readily believed the
little lad's tale, which was confirmed by a
butter of his own, who said that when he
had ridden near the blasted sober-oak one
twilight time he had seen a maiden with a
bronze amphora on her head going down for
water at a spring that rose near there.

Musa knew him at a glance, and he
knew her.

He came to her and spoke roughly.

4 You wicked wench, you stole Joconda's
mule away from me, I have not forgotten that.
Ever since then I meant to track you when I
had time, and at last I come upon you. You
are an evil one ! '

It is you who are evil,' she said coldly.
Joconda had paid her rent beforehand, on
the first day of August, and you accused
her falsely, and sold her goods out of
despite, under pretext of a debt. You area
bad man. It is a pity that the prince your
master does not know how bad you are.'

Oh, ho, vermin ! ' cried the steward,
frantic with rage. ; That is the tongue you
dare to use to me, is it? Spawn of the devil
you always were, and the pity is that the days
are gone by when one could have had you
burned as the devil's daughter. Pray you,
now, do you know whose ground this is ? '

She gave a gesture of negation, of indifference,
of ignorance. She had never
thought of the ground as any one's property ;
it belonged to God and his dead. The moor
was free to all, so she thought. These great
green silent lands seemed too vast, too mute,
too solemn, to be parcelled out amidst the
legal claims of men. Who claimed the sea ?
Who would, went on it, gleaned from it, was
fed by it, lulled by it, devoured by it when
it was in haste and rage. As the sea was
free to all, so she had always believed was
the plain.

1 Well, this land is the prince's, my
master's,' said the man with great unction
and vicious wrath united. ' If we had
known that you had harboured here, out
you would have gone, long, long ago. And,
indeed, it would go hard with you now did
my master choose to have the law on you,
for who knows what treasures you may not

have made away with ; but lie is merciful,
and so am I. and therefore we do not mean
to hurt you : only out you go.'

She heard but dully. Only a few months
earlier, and she would nave fought for her
refuge and her rights to it as a tigress may
fight for her den ; but now the spring of her
life was broken, her courage was not gone,
but was deadened ; her whole spirit was
sunk in hopeless apathy. Yet a great terror
fell upon her. Without this home she would
be desolate as the house-martin, who sees
the wall that held his nest crumble into
dust. For so long she had lived there, for
so long each moment of the day had been
given to some thought that centred in these
familiar tombs. They had been hers, so
entirely hers, borrowed in all humility and
gratitude direct from the dead who were
with God. Without them she would be
not only homeless, but exiled from all she
knew, from all she loved. No palace, had
they given her one, would have been as
dear to her as these hallowed chambers,
shared with the lizard and the bat.

4 There was gold in these tombs,' he
said to her.

She answered him coldly :

1 Yes, there was when I saw them first.'

And you have stolen it ? '

I never steal ; I leave that to you to doat
your lord's expense. The gold was stolen
by a galley-slave, one you have heard of,
Saturnino Mastarna. It can do him no
harm to say so, for he has escaped.'

He believed nothing that she said. He
was certain that the gold was either in the
tombs or safe hidden underneath the soil.

c If you will tell me honestly where the
treasure is I will not give you up to justice,'
he said, thinking so to possess a secret which
without her might escape him for ever.

I cannot tell you what I do not know,'
she answered him. 'Ask Saturnino Mas-tarn,
if you can find him.'

'You are a cursed jade,' cried the old
man, with the rabbit seizing him, and called
her many worse names still. Musa turned
her back on him, and stood awaiting his
next act. She would not show him what she
felt, but her heart was beating to suffocation
with fear lest she should be hunted from her
home.

The tombs are my lord's. They are
of value, they are full of treasure, they are
my master's,' he kept repeating now.

Go you down into them, and get your
chattels — that I will let you do, but nothing
more — and waste no time about it
for we are about to clear the entrance and
take all the old work there may be there
back with us. These are the orders we
have had. But I see very well that you
have robbed us of all that there was good in
it. You look aghast, and you are dumb.'

She was so ; she was like the poor hare
on the moor who could not understand why
she was grudged her form of grass, that
caused no loss to any living thing, yet was
the whole world to her.

1 have stolen nothing,' she said once
more. ' I found these sepulchres. They
are not your lord's nor mine, but belong to
the dead. I have done no hurt there. It is
all I have of home.'

She is but an impudent jade living thus,
in the bowels of the soil, and with a paramour
I make no doubt,' said the angry steward.
4 Men, get you to work to clear these shrubs
away and find the door ; we can waste no
more time. If there be sculptures we are to
hew them off, and that is a long business.
Get to work and look for this vixen's
earth '

In an earlier time she would have
plunged a knife into the first hand that had
touched those sepulchres, but now she was
mute and motionless. The greater loss that
she had endured made this loss almost light
to her. Only she knew not where to lay
her head if she was driven out, and every
stone was dear to her — ' dear as remembered
kisses after death.'

When the first blow of the hatchets fell on
the shrubs around, the sound roused her ;
she leaped into their midst with her old
force and fire.

You shall not touch them ! ' she cried
passionately, as she wrenched the first axe
away. ' They are Dot yours, nor mine, nor
any one's. You shall not touch them. They
belong to God.'

The men laughed. They were, together,
stronger than she was. They seized her
and tied her wrists with a cord, and then
bound her ankles with one, and cast her
aside upon the soft sand under the heath as
they would have cast a troublesome dog or
goat.

They were not cruel, but they thought
her a strange wild creature, and they were
desirous to get their work over, and lie in the

shade, and drink their wine, and sleep the
noontide sleep they loved.

Their steward eyed her with a more evil
glance. He had long sucked all the best
juices out of his lord's properties himself;
he was bitterly chagrined that he had missed
such treasure-trove as Etruscan tombs unopened
yield ; he made no doubt that she
had stolen all the gold.

He had ridden over this moor in spring
twelve months before. Why, he thought,
had not his horse's hoofs broken through
the crumbling sandstone, the thick soft
moss, and shown him this kingdom of the
dead ? He was angry at his own negligence,
and hated her since she, he never doubted,
had rifled all the place and now they would
find nothing ; so he grumbled to his peasants,
who were still at work with spade and
hatchet, beam* still ignorant of where the
entrance was.

She, bound as they had bound her, lay
upon the sward and watched them, mute.

'If you will spare our labour and tell
me where the entrance is we will set you
free,' they said to her ; but she did not unclose
her lips.

The calm under torment that the

southerner shares with the oriental had
come upon her. She was dumb as the dead
within. Only her great eyes looked on,
wide open, and full of anguish.

Soon the labourers lighted on the 
with a shout, and she saw her
sanctuary Alas discovered. She heard the
blows of mallet and axe ; she heard the grind
of chisel and pickaxe. They were hewing out
a wider space by which to enter. Then they
lighted on the open portico of the cellula
janitor.

Writhing in her bonds, she called to
them in anguish : ' you must not enter ; you
must not, you shall not ; my little child lies
there ! '

She cried the same thing over and over
again a hundred times, struggling and twisting
madly in her captivity.

The old man heard, and put but one
meaning on her words.

She has killed her child and hidden it
here ! ' he thought, and searched the place
of burial, and perceived that recently the
rock of the floor had been broken up in the
first chamber.

There w T as a bronze Etruscan lamp burning
where the stone had been cut through,

and a little handful of honeysuckle was in
an earthen masts standing by ; the \ mother
of the woods ' is the flower that braves
longest of all the summer heats.

6 Is that her remorse ? ' thought the
bitter-hearted old man, as he bade his
men tear up the pieces of broken rock,
where soon they found the small body of
the little child, wrapped, heedfully, in linen
and lying in the buds of rosemary. There
was a gold Madonnina buried with it.
There were no marks of violence upon it,
and some property of the air or rock, not
uncommon in this soil, had preserved the
little corpse from all corruption and made it
look like a pale waxen image.

Even the hard hearts and dull souls of
the men were moved to some emotion as
they looked on it, lying dead upon its bed
of withered rosemary.

1 She never harmed it,' they murmured
to one another; but their director grew
angry and bid them be silent.

4 You are idiots,' he said to them. ' She
killed it, and hid it here. If she had not
killed it, would she have denied it honest
Christian burial? '

Angry and disappointed, and inflamed

with baffled cupidity, he roamed from
chamber to chamber, making no count
of the paintings of the walls, and of the
slender grace of the bronze lamps, being too
ignorant to know their value in their arts,
and being greedy for the yellow glitter of
the metal that he loved.

All the traces of her occupation of the
place infuriated him more and more, for he
saw in each assurance that she had dwelt
there long enough to rifle and to rob. He
called out to his men to clear the rubbish
away, and was the first to fling with his own
hand on the ground the black and red earthen
vessels that he despised as valueless.

Lying where they had placed her under
the sharp foliage of the malacca she saw the
violation of the sepulchres that were sacred
to her alike for the living and the dead.

All the black earthenware of the tombs
they furiously broke upon the ground until,
of it all, there only remained a pile of shattered
potsherds ; the metal lamps they threw
upon the cart, these would serve to help
light their kitchens ; all her own simple
things they threw down in a heap, and the
old man snapped across his knee the keys of
the old tortoiseshell lute.

Tt seemed to her as if every sound fell
on her breast, on her brain.

The men were angry because, entering,
they found no metal work of value, no platters
or vases, or cups, or chains, or bracelets
of the virgin gold of Etruria, such as were
yielded in such rich harvest by the famous
metropolis of Palestrina, of Cervetri, of the
Montarozzi.

They were bitterly irritated, the steward
most so of all ; lie having been sure to
make a fine gleaning there, a tithe of which
he would have given to his master who
knew nothing of this day's work, though his
name was used so glibly.

It was yet very early.

The old man sat in the shade of the
tomb and drank the clear red wine that she
had bought for Este, and cast his cunning
eyes about in search for some gold or silver
or amber that might be hidden in the sand,
or lost in the dark where the bats clung. He
saw none ; all the gold-work that had ever
been there had been taken by Saturnino, and
finding none, despite all his pains and diligence,
he grew more and more angry, more
and more suspicious ; he had had visions of

such wealth within these graves as that which

was found by the Prince of Canine — wealth
of which he could give his owner a discreet
portion, whilst with the rest he would
swell that ever-growing hoard which was the
sweetest sight his twinkling eyes ever dwelt
on ; he was wont to feast on it by oil
light, when his doors were bolted and
barred with locks three hundred years old,
in his old grey house set down amidst the
marshes and the salt lagoons.

Having at length espied in the darkness
the fibula and the few ornaments which
Saturnino had overlooked, and which she
had once refused to sell even for Este's sake,
the sight of these only inflamed his cupidity
the more, and made him the surer that there
had been some vast treasure seized and sold
by her ; and this conviction so tormented
and enraged him that with his own hands
he would have strangled her had it not been
that he was timid where the law stepped in
and knew he should be punished for doing
such rough justice on her.

His gaze roving thus, sullen and eager to
discover, fell at last on the coffin of Joconda,
where it rested in the twilight behind the
stone bier of that Etruscan knight who once
had been sole lord there.

His shrewd sense saw at once that this
was a thing of yesterday, that no Etruscan
dead were slumbering in that long, rough,
shapeless box of upland pine-wood, with
the black cross rudely painted on it. His
cunning little soul, steeped all its days in
chicaneries, and usuries, and efforts to outwit
his lord and to grind down his people, fell
all at once on the darkest and the foulest
meaning that this strange sight could bear.

Some murder had been done here, hidden
away with the dust and ashes of two
thousand years : done by this girl no doubt.

So he believed, and his small soul leapt
up in gladness.

It would be hard to punish her for the
missing gold-work, for there was no proof
there ever had been such in these graves,
though morally he was sure of it ; but for
these dead bodies hidden away, justice
could be easily summoned. He shook a
little, for he Alas a timid man, and to be
thus in company with the dead was ghastly
to him, and he called aloud to his men to
leave off hewing at the stone lion and come
look here.

Between them they got the coffin open,
and, shuddering and muttering paternosters,

vol. in. P

they uncovered the poor, withered, lifeless
frame of her that was untouched by corruption
as yet, being so shrivelled and
fleshless with old age, and further preserved
by the dry aromatic air of the painted
chamber.

It is a woman. It is Joconda Eomanelli ! '
he said gasping ; and his men shrank together
awed and frightened, and shut the
coffin down and stood staring.

A thrust of the knife in a brawl, a shot on
a lonesome hill, and fierce vengeance deftly
worked out — these they were well used to in
Maremma, and they saw no great harm in
them. But this body, torn from Christian
burial and sanctified ground, and shoved
away with these Etruscan mummies, seemed
to them a ghastly horror ; for had not the
girl taken all the gold ?

Meanwhile, outside in the sunshine,
Musa lay with bound limbs, strained ears,
and aching eyes ; powerless to move, not
knowing what they did, judging only of their
violence by the broken lute and the heap of
broken Etruscan ware that were thrown out
beside her on the sand.

c It is God's mercy he is gone,' she
thought ; that was her chief remembrance.

Yet all her life ached in her as if it were
snapped asunder like the lute ; she was like
the bird-who sees rough hands tear down
and scatter on the winds the nest that it cost
him such anxious care to build, and that he
guarded so jealously whilst lie sang his love
song underneath the leaves. Like the bird
she had offended none, making her home as
silently and meekly as he did where the wild
bay grew and the woods purge crept with
the moss. She had asked nothing of the
world more than the bird does ; yet they
could not let her be.

She heard the blows of the mallet on the
marble cease, and all was still. She wondered
dully what they were doing now ;
dully, for pain had numbed her, and the
worst that could have come to her seemed
already done.

The men, within, held council.

Some were jocose and jested broadly :
she was a handsome creature, they said ;
the old steward was blind to such charms,
the chills of age and avarice made him insensible
to such a plea ; he was angry that
the gold was gone, he only longed to punish
her, to see her hurt.

She had sold all the jewellery, of that hep

2

felt sure, or had buried it somewhere on the
moors, to get it when she chose.

And this dead woman's body — if it were
not the cover of some crime, why should
such a corpse be hid here thus ?

Xo ; he was resolute ; to justice she
should go, away to Orbetello. They would
take the dead body in its deal box with
them, and the corpse of the little child
wrapped in its linen, and let the judges see.
He persuaded himself and them that he was
acting from pure rectitude and horror of
crime ; in truth he would never have cared
though a hundred corpses had rotted there
if he had found the gold vases, the gold
platters, the gold chains. Aloud he said
that those who would desecrate a sepulchre
would do any other sin ; such were best
dealt with and put aside by law. He washed
his hands of it.

So he went out into the sunny air, and
bade his men lift her, bound as she was,
upon the ox-cart.

But, although bound, she revolted so
fiercely at their touch that they were
frightened and hung back.

What have I done ? ' she cried to them.

8 Waste no words on her,' said the

steward. 4 She shall answer before the
judges.'

1 I have done no harm,' she said, as she
wrenched her ankles free by violent effort
and stood before them, her hands still tied
behind her bark. C I knew not that those
tombs had any owner. They belong to the
dead. I did the dead no harm. They were
not afraid of me, nor I of them. Why do you
touch me ? Why do you bind me ? I have
done no evil. It is you who insult the grave.
It is you who break their laws and rob '

c Where is the gold that was there ? '
shrieked the old steward, stung into accusation.
; Where is the gold, you wanton ?
And where is your lover that you screened
there ? Who was the father of your child ? '

She was silent.

They took her silence for guilt ; she
seemed to them to be overwhelmed with
her own crime thus brought before her.
Her great luminous eves stared at them
with a terrible, unutterable sadness that
they were frightened at, and took for
guilt.

4 To justice with her,' said the old man
cruelly. c Heave her in the cart, men ; she
has the mal'occhio. 1

She was heaved into the cart by the
ropes that tied her limbs ; her feet hung
over the rail, her head and body were on
the hard wood ; she was used as they used
a young heifer.

They thought her something unnatural
and unearthly ; they dreaded the evil eye ;
they had no mercy, and their director
hovered round her, tightening a rope with
unction, or knotting her hair upon a nail, in
vengeance for that gold he had not found.
It hurt her more when they touched her
bare feet, or their rough movements unloosened
the linen off her breast.

All her beauty was Este's, for these to
look on it was treachery to him.

To her own fate she was almost callous.
He had gone, and she was driven from
the place where he had been, and where
every stone, every leaf, every grain of
sand, seemed to speak to her of him ;
it was indifferent to her what else befell
her. If they broke her on the wheel
as they did the saints of old, she would not
suffer more than she had done when she
had heard his footsteps go away so willingly,
so lightly, over the scorched turf.

The oxen moved on ; the ponderous

wheels turned, the strongest waggon rolled
upon its road.

The old man and one other came with
her ; the rest of the men stayed to guard the
tomb and hew out the sculptures in the
rock.

The way they went was not towards
Santa Tarsilla, but southward to the
marshes which, where the moors sloped to
the south, replaced it and made all the
earth like a sponge, now white with cotton-grass
and billowy water-reeds.

Turning her burning eyes from side to
side, she saw the places she had roamed
over, hunting for cactus-fruit, and the
wild prickly pear, and the blue bilberries of
the thickets. She saw the little pools where
she had splashed and bathed ; the fringes of
cane where reluctant she had searched for
the eggs of the fluttering water-hen ; she
saw the broad blue sky above her head, a
green ibis on its voyage was the only speck
upon it ; it Hew high above her, straight
above her, and winged its wise way eastward,
to the lands of sunrise. She envied it.

She lay face upward on the bottom of
the waggon, her hands tied so that she
could not brush away a gnat or fly. The

sun beat on her, the insects tormented her,
mosquitoes fastened on her feet as they
hung over the rail.

The men took no notice of her ; they
jolted on as they would have gone with a
bound calf or a shot doe behind them.

As long as she could, she looked for
the pine-trees that grew by the sea, for
the great branches of the cork tree that
spread themselves above the place of the
tombs When she could behold these no
longer, tears of blood came into her eyes ;
the sky and the moor and the air grew
crimson to her.

The oxen crept on, pulling against their
rings of iron, groaning against their heavy
yokes ; tired and sore, they licked their lips
with parched tongues, they sobbed now and
then like beaten children when the goad
struck them.

The waggon rolled on, over the burned
moorland, to the marshes where the earth
was still wet, and the stagnant waters were
green as the broad leaves of their lilies.
Here all was treeless, level, vaporous ; the
black buffalo wading content in the ooze,
the butor sitting motionless in the swamp ;
here and there came gladiolus flowers, rising

like red plumes ; everywhere there was a sea
of reed-grass and rushes murmurous with
clouds of insects ; a watery desert where
disease walked abroad alike by noonday and
by night.

A narrow road, often raised on piles,
crossed the morass, and oftentimes a false
step of the oxen to right or left would have
plunged the waggon into the bog on either
side that was hidden under the rank vegetation
of grass and rushes. This single road
traversed the marshes, and united them
with the great fields of grain that lay
beyond, square leagues of corn stretching
far as the eyes could reach from sea to
mountains, and now brown and bending to
the sickle.

Before they entered on these great corn
lands where harvest was ending mirthfully,
despite the pestilence that rode on every
sunbeam, the men stayed their tired and
beaten oxen, who, footsore and with the
water falling from their eyes, would, pressed
longer, have dropped down to rise no
more.

Then, and then only, they bethought
them to look at their burden ; as they
would have looked at the heifer to see that

she did not die before the butcher's mallet
should strike her.

They found her unconscious, and breathing
heavily ; the sun had struck her and
made her, for the hour, insensible to all her
pain.

6 She is a jade, but we must not kill her,
or they will call us to account,' said the old
steward to his man.

So they halted there for her sake as well as
for that of the oxen, and laid her down upon
the ground, and tried what rough surgery
they knew to call back the senses that the
sun had slain.

The illness in a few hours passed off
her, and she regained the consciousness of
her unutterable misery.

HE old man, not to be diverted
from his vengeance and his purpose,
rested with her that night
at his own farmhouse on the
edge of the great corn lands, and in the
morning began his journey afresh with other
oxen, and took her to the sad sea town of
Orbetello, where the people die of the heat
like flies of poisoned meat, and the salt
crystals on the shore are all its wealth.

The seizure of her was not legal, and he
had no legal power to make it ; but such
trifles as legality could easily be ignored
by the steward of a grand prince who was
absent, and had half the Orbetellano in his
keeping. When he left the inland tracks
and entered on the long line of darksome

pine wood that by land connects Telamone
and Orbetello, he for form's sake made the
matter known to a brigadier of carabineers
who was his friend, and, to have all matters
right in form, his friend sent two mounted
guards, with their carbines slung beside
them and their cutlasses at their side, to go
beside the ox-cart into the town, and give
the captive up to the prison authorities.

Thence they went on again under the
pines by the side of the blue glancing sea, and
she lay, almost senseless, on the straw at the
bottom of the waggon .

They met old Andrei no on the coast.
He held up his hands and cried aloud :

Dear Lord ! Did 1 not always know
that she would meet her end like that !
The saints be praised she did not get my
sweet Landing ! '

At Orbetello they threw her into prison
after hearing how she had hidden a dead
body in the closed Etruscan tomb.

She did not understand of what they
accused her. She thought vaguely that
they missed the gold things stolen by
Saturnino, and that they attributed the
theft to her. But it was not clear to
her ; neither could she comprehend why

they should blame her for having buried
her little child and brought the body of
Joconda there. She had done no harm ;
she could not see why they should seek to
punish her. But the spirit with which a few
months earlier she would have laughed
them to scorn and cut her way free of
them, if needs be with her knife, was
gone out of her. Her lover was lost to her,
and her child was dead : little else mattered.

She was kept in that prison a month,
awaiting such time as they should see fit to
remove and to try her for this crime. The
air grew very hot ; the town was like a
sick ward in a hospital, the miasma crept
up at sunset every night from the swamps
around, and found out the people sitting on
the sea-walls, or in the streets at dominoes,
or lying panting and naked on their beds.

She was shut in her little cell ; she who
had all the day long roamed moor and
shore, and plunged in the waves, and led the
life of a woodland beast or of a silver -
plumaged guillemot.

The cell had a square window, with four
transverse iron bars ; it was very narrow,
but through it she could see the sea, the
only familiar friend she had. She thought

in after days that it was this sight of the
sea which alone kept her alive in those terrible
weeks. She could see a hands-breadth of
its blue jewel-like surface leaping, and seeming
to laugh, and every now and then a felucca
sail would sweep across the narrow field of
her vision, or the wing of a gull would flit
by, and these familiar things kept sense in
her, and saved her from insanity.

Presently they put with her a prostitute ;
a woman abandoned and loathsome, who was
there on a charge of having murdered a
youth in a brawl. She was a creature of
foul and filthy tongue, and she tried her
uttermost to hurt what she saw was a pure
soul ; but Musa shut her ears and her lips,
and looked at the sea ; and the obscenity
passed by her without harming her. She
was beyond that woman's reach.

This great love which absorbed her was
like an ivory wall built up between the
world and her.

All the while, day and night, she was
thinking — if he should go back ? if he should
go back and find the tomb empty, and her
place vacant ? Would he think her faithless ?
would he think she had tired so soon ?

This doubt was such agony to her that at

times it conquered her reason, and she would
shake the bars that divided her from sea and
sky, and cry aloud to the gulls and ships to
take her message to him, to tell him where
she was mewed up against her will, torn
away from her moors and her beach, and
her innocent liberties of wind and sunshine.


The next day but one they led her out
to be examined. She regained her self-control,
and was quite calm, though very
pale.

I have done nothing wrong,' she said
to her guards ; ' wherefore should I be
afraid ? ' '

They set her before her judge, the
Prepare of the court there, a lawyer in
black gown and cap. He was startled by
her look, by her solemn luminous eyes,
the repose of her attitude, the contempt
upon her beautiful mouth.

'She is no criminal,' he thought, and
called for the deposition of the testimony
against her

Then the steward, who gave his name
and that of his lord, gave his declaration of

all that he had seen and done ; of the dead
bodies he had found there, and of the uses
to which she had put the Etruscan tomb.
He could not accuse her of theft as well,
but he said that a shepherd boy, whom he
could produce, had known her and seen
gold there in an earlier time, whereas he
had only found a gold fibula and a gold
grasshopper or two.

When he had sworn all that, his
men were called, and described on oath
their entrance and examination of the
tombs, and their discovery of the body of
the little child and of the woman's coffin.
The steward then added his own witness
that the body of the woman was beyond
doubt that of one Joconda Eomanelli, who
had been a tenant of his master's at
Santa Tarsilla, and had died three years
before.

This was the case against her. The
young judge, who had felt prepossessed in her
favour, looked grave and stern : on the use of
the tomb as a dwelling-place he would
have been inclined to look leniently ; but for
the concealment of the dead bodies he could
see no plea : nothing could extenuate such an
act, so hostile to every prejudice of a Christian

land, even it' no darker bloodguiltiness were
involved in it.

The accusation ended, he addressed her,
and asked her for her own explanation of
her acts.

It was at all times difficult to her to find
many words to explain her thoughts, and in
this strange place, before these cruel unfamiliar
faces, without a friend beside her,
her heart was sick, her brain was dizzy, her
eyes swam. Nevertheless she strove to becalm
and to answer them. She could not
bear that the listening crowd should think
her afraid or guilty.

I buried my little child with me,' she
said simply, while the hot tears swelled up
in her eyes and throat, ' because I wished to
have him near me always. How can you
think I hurt him ? I would have given my
life for his, of course. As for Joconda, they
thrust her away in a hole in the sand, and
I went for her because it seemed thankless
to leave her all alone in the rain and the
wind ; she had been most good to me, and
I loved her. I did not think I did any
harm ; I do not think that I did do any. I have
nothing else to say. I found the tombs ; I
did not know I might not use them ; I have

VOL. III. o.

maintained myself honestly in them, I owe
no one anything.'

Then she ceased to speak, and stood
without indifference, but without anxiety,
with a tranquil and haughty simplicity and
repose.

The judge was perplexed.
How long did the child live ? ' he asked.
Only seven days.'
'Of what did he die?'
I cannot tell ; he faded as the flowers
do when the sun is too hot.'

Why did you not give him Christian
burial ? '

Her old scorn flashed in fire from her
eyes.

Christian burial ? — to pay a stranger to
dig a hole, and mumble something, and then
to go away and forget ? '

6 It is the law of the land.'
6 The law is cruel, and foolish, and
blind,' she said coldly, thinking of how in
Mantua the law had condemned an innocent
man, and honoured and praised the
murderer.

The law is sacred and omnipotent, as
you will find,' said the judge in rising anger.
Who was your lover ? '

Over the pallor of her face the colour
mounted fast, then faded.

4 That I will never tell you.'

The law shall compel you to speak.'

That the law cannot do,' she said with
a calm disdain. Had not La3na bitten
through her tongue rather than speak of
him she loved? So also could she. Este
had told her the old Greek story.

The judge was angered, irritated, and
bewildered. He knew not what to do. He
could not think her guilty, yet he could not,
in face of the offended majesty of the law he
represented, declare her guiltless, and refuse
the steward of Prince Altamonte his right to
demand a trial.

He closed the examination hurriedly, and
remanded her to prison, there to await her
fate. There was no one to tell her that
perhaps she might successfully ask to be left
free until the time of trial, and, indeed, such
a request would probably have been refused
in view of the guilt of which she was
accused.

But that night the judge said to his sub-prepare,
' Never did I see innocence if I do
not see it thither ; and she would go to the
scaffold, if we sent her there, mute.'

Q 2

In the populace, on the contrary, there was
furious wrath against her, and readiness to
condemn her to the worst chastisement had
they had her fate in their hands. She was
only the Musoncella, and she had offended
all their dearest superstitions. What was she
to deride the consecrated ditch in which
they all hoped to lie, when it came to their
turn, made snug till the Day of Doom, and
made safe for that by their priests' mumbled
rites ?

They said amongst themselves that they
would warrant she had the maVocchio, and
that this lover whom she would not name
had been the foul fiend himself. Had they
had their way they would have given her
short shrive.

Meanwhile the guards took her back to
her prison-cell.

Then she understood what Este had
felt ; why she had been powerless to console
or to content him so lone as the sense of
captivity was upon him, so long as he could
no more &o whither he listed.

Now it was at this time the end of
midsummer, and the law courts throughout
Maremma would be closed until autumn by
reason of the unhealthiness of the hot season,

so that there she would remain until they
opened again, and might die of the malaria
of the town for aught that any one knew or
cared. An accused is always two-thirds of
a criminal in the e} r es of the law, which
always looks through magnifying glasses.

The steward went his way, the judge
and the lawyers went theirs. No one cared
whether she lived or died, and the hot
winds came and blew the stagno into pestilential
vapours, and the white piles of the
salt glared in the sun, and the heavy livid
heat settled down on all the shore, and
disease walked abroad with every fall of
evening dew.

They shut her in her cell, and the sole
solace she had was that she was left alone in
it. But it went hard with her to keep her
reason ; not to let go her hold on life and
sense. She to whom it had been torture
only to see the birds imprisoned in the nets,
to whom the open air had been as breath
from the very lips of a merciful God, to
whom the lowliest weed had had beauty
and the lowliest beast been a comrade, who
had never missed the setting of the sun and
the rising of it, who had watched the passage
of the round moon through the illumined

clouds with the deep delight that
poets know, to whom the forest or the
moorland day had been one hymn of praise
to nature, and who, amidst her deepest
sorrow, had found that consolation in the
solitudes of the wolds which nature keeps
for those who love it perfectly, to her, a
prison cell was every hour such misery as
those know who, buried in haste, awake
from their swoon to find the oak of the
coffin, the stone of the vault, for ever between
them and the living world.

The only thing that saved her from madness
was that small square space in the wall
through whose bars she could see a hairsbreadth
of the sky and water, and smell the
salt glad scent of the sea.

The only thing that made her cling stubbornly
to life was the faint hope, shut in
silence in her own breast, that Este might
hear, and come.

^^XE day they told her a friend
asked to see her. All the dying
courage sprang up in her, and the
passion of longing made her nice
rosy as the day-dawn. It was he !

She leaped on her feet and ran to the
grated door, and put out both her hands, and
cried, with laughter and with tears, in strange
abandonment and delirium for her grave
nature :

4 Oh, my love ! oh, my love ! you have

remembered '

The words died on her lips, the blood
ruined to ebb away from her heart and
brain, she turned sick and cold.

It was not Este ; it was the Sicilian
mariner.

He stood on the threshold of her cell,
and the tears were coursing down his cheeks ;
he was very pale, and he was silent ; words
came to his throat, but seemed to choke him
and were mute.

She shrank back in unspeakable revulsion
of feeling ; the blood seemed to turn to
ice in her veins under the disappointment.

She sat down and turned her face from
him.

The action smote him to the quick and
unloosed his tongue.

6 Let me help you ! Let me help you ! '
he said piteously ; and could think of nothing
more or better to say.

She shook her head in sign of refusal.

Help her ! how could he help her ? How
could Heaven itself help her, since her lover
had forgotten, and her child was dead ?

If I had only known ! If I had only
known ! ' he said stupidly. ' Oh, the beast
the fool '

She turned her face towards him, and
looked up from under her lowering brows.

Go away,' she said sternly, and in a
low steady voice. ' I do not want you. I
did not send for you. I told you I never
should for twenty years, Go, go ! '

Almost weeping as women do, lie came
nearer to her.

I cannot go ! ' he said passionately. l Oh,
I know you do not care. I know I cannot
comfort you, but something I may do. I
am better than no one, though I am only a
rude foolish seaman. Do not think I will
talk of myself, of anything I feel ; I only
want to speak of you, I only want to defend
you against these devils '

If they would let me go back '

The one great longing that was in her
heart escaped her despite herself. If only
they would let her go back ! She wanted
nothing more from the mercy of men.

They must let you go back ! ' he said
vehemently. * They must ; they shall ! What
harm have you done, poor innocent ? '

I have done none,' she said wearily.
1 But they do not believe that. As if I would
have hurt his child ! '

The infinite tenderness that was in her
voice stung cruelly the man who heard her.
But he controlled his own pain ; he only
said gently :

4 You could hurt nothing. You loved
all the little birds and the poor hunted beasts
-—oh, my dear ! oh, my dear ! '

His strength failed him, and a low sob
quivered in his strong throat.

The horror of it, and the pity of it, conquered
his fiery temper and broke down his
bold spirit into utter weakness.

She was silent.

His sorrow did not touch her any more
than his passion had ever done. She had no
place in her thoughts left for him.

6 And where is he P ' muttered the sailor.
c Where is he, the white-livered coward, the
false faithless wretch you loved ? Where is
he ? May the curse '

She sprang to her feet, and looked at
him with the fire of other days in her eyes.

8 Do not dare to speak of him. What is
it to you ? You are a stranger to me. Get
you gone ; get you gone.'

But he has been false to you ! '

What is that to you ? You are not my
brother. You are a strange seaman of
whom I know nothing, of whom I wish
never to know aught. Go your way, and
leave me to mine — whatever it be.'

Then, exhausted by the momentary violence,
she sat down once more in the same
attitude, leaning her head wearily against the
wall of the cell. He could not see her face.

1 1 only wish to serve you, if I can,' he
said humbly, and trembling as no danger of
the deep seas had ever made him tremble.

1 You cannot,' she said, with her face
still hidden from him. ' But go, go. It
hurts me to speak and being spoken to ; I
am best alone.'

He lingered, torn in two by his grief
and his love for her. It had been wild love,
born of a glance, of a word, of a glimpse of
dark eyes on a summer morning that shed
its light on a beautiful face that had been
fixed on his heart for evermore ; but it was
faithful love, ready to do and to dare all
things.

He only hesitated here because he knew
not what to do.

I will go since you wish it,' he said
at last. But I shall be always in Orbetello,
and I will do what I can. I think they
must soon set you free. You have
harmed no one. You have offended the
law, perhaps, but so innocently, and no
law of God or nature, but only the trumpery
vexatious rule of man. I am sure soon they
must set you free ; but if they do not, bars
have been sawn through ere now, and
stouter ones than these, and there is the sea

at hand — and — and I want you to believe,
if I should help you to escape, if there
should be no other means, never, never
will I presume on any service I may have
done to you. Once free you shall never
see me again. I am not a cur, I would
never plead to you by what I might have
done '

His eyes were glistening, his voice was
feeble with haste and emotion, and eagerness
to assure her that no self-seeking
thoughts or selfish hopes were stirring him ;
the strength of love that was in his soul
lifted him out of common egotistic passion ;
he in truth forgot himself in her.

She did not answer ; she scarcely heard
him ; after he had spoken she thought over
his words but dully, and with little faith in
them. To escape ; yes ; that would be
blessed indeed ; but she did not wish to owe
him anything. She thought Este would
sooner choose that she should suffer here than
become free by the aid of any hand not his.

The love of the Sicilian, even in its
simplicity, honesty, and generosity, had
always struck a chord of anger in her. She
had always wondered if she had been too
familiar with a stranger that morning on the

sands that lie had thus been led to fasten
his fancy on her.

He waited a little while in hope that she
might answer him, that the hint of escape
might at the least rouse some flutter of the
old bold spirit in her. But he waited in
vain. She was ready, indeed, to escape by
any means of her own, in any way, at any
hour of the night or day, but she did not
accept his help. It seemed to her, without
her reasoning out her instinct, that to take
any benefit from any man was in a measure
to be false to her lover.

He waited with beating heart and longing
ear ; but she said nothing.

It is best to see what one can do, without,
with all these brutes,' he thought, and turned
to go.

1 You will know I am always ready,' he
said softly ; and then the gaoler repeated
his summons, and the door unclosed and
he passed through it and was gone.

She did not even look up once.

Danielloo Villamagna went out of the
gloomy place into the intense light of the
noonday that was shining on the salt lagoon
till it glistened like a mirror of steel.

His shrewd sense told him that his first

care should be to find a good advocate ; his
next, as he had little faith in those land
sharks who live by the adversity of other
men, was to study all ways and means by
which, in case of any condemnation of her,
her rescue might be compassed.

These two things he did, and put all his
soul and his might into them, and praised
Heaven that he had made enough gains out
of his latest voyage to be able to throw
money about in her cause without much
prudence.

All the hot listless day in the dull sea-town
he spent his whole time in pondering
over that which he might do, and to the
advocate he had hired he said again and
again : ' Let her think the judge has appointed
you ; if she knew I had spoken to
you, she would be angered : she is very
proud, pray let her never know.'

And when the man of law pressed for
his reasons in having this great anxiety
for her, he answered once for all : 'I have
seen her but thrice — out of doors, by the
edge of the sea — and she thinks nothing of
me, and never will think anything ; but she
is as innocent as the rock-doves yonder, and
I love her well, though never, I tell you —

oh never ! — shall I be more to her than yon
weeds that grow in the stagno.'

There was that accent of passionate
truth in him which carries conviction to its
hearers whenever it can obtain a hearing.

He was well known along all the seaboard
of Maremma ; even her accusers began
to think better of her since the dauntless
sailor of Palermo loved her.

As the people of the Orbetellano sat
about by the sea-wall, and spread out their
nets to dry in the sun, they began to say,
after all, her story might be true — why
not ? And the tide of opinion turned in her
favour.

All through the hottest weather he
stayed there, and was thankful that he had
leisure and time to serve her.

Once, in each two weeks, they let him see
her in the presence of the guards or gaoler ;
and he persuaded her to speak a little, very
little, enough to give him some clue by
which to do something for her. The name
of Este, of course, she never spoke. They
might have kept her there all the years
of her life, but she would never have disclosed
it.

He only saw her thus in cruel fleeting

moments which wrung his inmost soul, but
he stayed on, glad to be able to feel himself
her only friend, glad to be able to watch for
hours together the little grated window of

her cell.

He and the advocate he employed, and
on whom he spent all the gains of his latest
voyages, hunted the Apennines for the
shepherd's wife of whom Musa spoke once,
when the lawyer retained by Danielloo
Villain ama asked her if there was no one
who could testify that her little child had
died of a newborn child's mere feebleness.
Musa knew only that the woman was called
Pomfilia, and that her husband's name was
]S T prone, and on that slender help they had
to rely, and did at length trace the shepherd
and his family from Maremma up to those
chestnut woods on the sides of the Pistoiese
hills where their summer home was made.

They also called on the priest of Santa
Tarsilla, who, although when he heard of
the coffin of Joconda having been taken
away without his sexton even missing it
was deeply incensed and terrified, yet was
too tender-hearted a man to refuse his testimony
that the girl reared by Joconda
Eomanelli, in his parish, had been always of

innocent life and noble, if of strange and
wayward temper.

Who she was by birth he could not tell.
That secret had died with his predecessor.

Danielloo knew, but he shut it in his own
heart as she shut her lover's name.

The hot months went by, and she lived
through them in her misery as the caged
lark lives beating his breast against his bars.
The greatest terror to her was that of which
she never spoke : lest Este should return to
the tombs in her absence, aud, angered at
what would seem her faithlessness, go without
knowing the truth.

On the other hand, there was always the
faint hope in her that he might hear, and
come to Orbetello.

The months passed, and the law court
opened earlier than the custom of it was,
because there was a great case of fraud, in
which public names were involved, for which
it was desirable to clear the way by getting
through all trials of lesser interest.

By persuasion and some free use of his
good money, Danielloo's advocate procured
the early hearing of her case whilst it was
still warm, radiant October weather.

The woman Pomfilia came down from

VOL. 111. B

the mountains, and when Musa was allowed
to see her once, the sight of a familiar face
did her some little good. It did not occur
to her to ask how, or by whom, the shepherd's
wife had been summoned ; her
thoughts were too absorbed, her mind was
too much distraught.

Yet she had no fear of any sentence they
might pass on her.

I did no harm ' was all that ever she
said.

Her old pride, her old courage, her old
antagonism to the tyranny of law, gave her
strength to hold it at arm's length still.

Her father's spirit awoke in her.

They might capture, they should not
subdue her, they should not humiliate
her.

There were other days in the stifling,
thronged audience-chamber ; other long
discourses, now from this speaker, now from
that ; other terrible weary hours filled with
the buzz of tongues, the stench of the crowd,
the wordy vapourings of petty pompous
people. She was brought in and set in
their midst, and she understood nothing of
it ; no more than the trapped hawk understands
why he is caught in the cruel wires.

It all went past her ear like a confused
noise without sense or meaning.

She vaguely comprehended that sonic
one whom she did not know was pleading in
her favour, and trying to set her free.

But she was always thinking, c In Mantua
they condemned him, all innocent as he
was ; men pleaded in his favour too, he said,
but they condemned him ; so will they me. 5

She had no hope that they would understand
her and let her go.

The woman Pomfilia gave simple, straightforward
testimony as to the exceeding love
she had borne the little child, and the despair
its death had caused her. The woman added
that she herself did not know that it was
wrong to have said nothing, and made the little
grave there ; had the child lived it would have
been carried to Telainone and baptised there.
That she knew would have been done.

The evidence of the woman, timid before
the law, but honest, went far with the
judge and with the listening audience of
seafaring folk and peasants.

Then they brought forth the little traitor
Zefferino, who grew white and shook as with
a palsy when he looked across the hall and
saw her face.

K J

6 Thou also ! ' said the scorn and sorrow
of her grand calm eyes.

When he recovered a little from that
trepidation of terror, he swore glibly enough
that on the first day when she had taken him
down into the tombs there had been much
gold, much : it lay in heaps and heaps, so he
affirmed ; and when he had returned thither
the next day by himself — not meaning to
touch it, oh no ! only to look if it were safe —
he saw none there, none at all ; it must
have been carried away in the night. He
declared that she had the maw occhio, and
that she had threatened his life because he
took two travellers to see the bouche celle fate,
and that he had gone to dwell at Populonia
because he went in perpetual peril from her
vengeance. He told his tale very convincingly,
and with pretty childish innocence
of bearing.

When he had quite ended, her voice rang
out like a clarion in defiance of him, of her
accusers, of her judges, of all the listening
people.

You are a miserable traitor,' she cried
to him. 'I sheltered you from the storm;
I fed you often ; I was attached to you ; I
dealt honestly and well with you always ;

and you betrayed my sanctuary for two
silver pieces. You are a son of Iscariot,
go ! For the gold, you know well that the
galley-slave Saturnino Mastarna robbed the
dead and took it. It was his own undoing
here in the Orbetellano. You know that.
You are a sou of Iscariot ; you stole my
old mule in his days of weakness to sell
him away into misery. You are vile as a
viper that stings the hand that has spared its
life. Go ! Away from my sight, go ! '

He slunk between the guards ; and
there was that in her glance, in her voice, in
her attitude, which thrilled the hearts of the
people, who before were steeled against her.

These days in the public court were very
terrible to her.

She had dwelt in her moorland solitudes
till she was shy of every human glance, till
every sound, save the dreamy sounds of the
hills and woods, was harsh and jarring to her.
As the arum-leaves lie hidden in the shadow
of deep dells, so had she been shrouded
underneath the greenness of the earth.

Torn from her shelter, and dragged into
the crude light of noon, with hundreds of
hard eager eyes fastened upon her, and the
buzz and bray of human voices deafening

her ears, she was bewildered as an animal is,
dragged from his jungle or his desert into
the glare and hooting crowds of a menagerie to
make the sport of fools. The natural courage
in her, and that instinctive dignity, so common
in classic ages and so little seen in ours,
made her hide all the alarm she suffered ; but
she suffered all the more that she stood there
like any statue made of bronze, and never
winced, and let her eyes rest in cold disdain
upon the faces of her accusers and her judge.

She had said the truth once.

She opened her lips no more.

The Prepare at length, after long preamble,
and an examination lasting three
days, censured her in a long discourse with
severity, but pronounced her free ; the
accusation being dismissed as non-proven.

She heard the sentence of deliverance
without any movement of gratitude or joy.
Her proud serenity of repose remained
unbroken.

Why not have found me guiltless before
you punished me with these long frightful
months ? ' she thought ; but aloud she said
only : ' I may go back — now ? '

That was the one desire panting, like a
netted bird, at her heart.

HEN a little while later the formalities
were fulfilled, and she
was allowed to leave her prison,
homeless, friendless, penniless,
but free, she understood why Este had gone :
why love had become nothing to him beside
that ecstasy of liberty.

The hot light whirled round her in giddy
circles, her limbs were weakened by long and
harsh captivity, she was feeble and faint, but
she was almost once more happy. The earth
was her own once more, and somewhere on
the earth was her lover.

1 If only they had left me that little
grave,' she thought.

On the. threshold of the prison there met

her an old shrivelled man ; the steward, her
accuser.

He muttered quickly, in some shame :

8 My dear — I am sorry — I had too much
zeal — go back to the sepulchres if you
will ; go back ; and the little child is buried
in God's ground, buried beside Joconda, do
not be afraid.'

Then he hurried away, being in great
fear of her.

For Danielloo Villamagna had said to him,
If you will not disturb her in those tombs she
loves I will rent them of you at a hundred
scud by the year, and your lord need never
know.'

They had brought her out by the white
salt-covered shore ; and she stood still a
moment, drinking in the autumnal air : all
her soul, and mind, and body absorbed in one
unspoken prayer, praising heaven that she
was free.

She had not a friend in the world, nor
any roof to cover her, nor even a coin to
buy bread.

But she was not troubled by this ; she
was absorbed in thinking, ' How can I get
back ? ' They might tell her, how they
would, not to go there ; this was her

one thought. How would he find her
elsewhere? And was not his memory
there with every remembered hour of joy ?
The temptation came to her to go and seek
him, but she thrust it away. She said to
herself : ' I must not remind him of his debt.'

Nay, though she died of longing to look
upon his face she would never do that.

It was afternoon. Though close on
autumn the sultriness of summer had not
abated there. The air was still thick with
mosquitoes. The sails of the boats out at sea
hung like painted sails of wood. Some men
were killing a half-dead shark ; his eyes
rolled in horrible futile agony ; they were
cutting the live flesh off his spine.

Pale shores stretched on either side, pale
mountains slid away into heat mists in the
distance. Everything was still feverish,
pallid, weary with that ghastly weariness
of great heat which makes the ice-floe
and the north wind seem in desire as
paradise ; the heat which blanches and
enfeebles and fevers and wastes all in
one ; the heat in which flowers and birds
wither and pant, and children droop as
the tall stems of the sunflowers do ; the
heat in which all the beauty goes out of

the land, and the trees grow grey, and
the skies are ash colour.

In all that pallor and whiteness of the
sickly town and the low-lying shore and
the feeble people, the figure of Musa stood
out with the grace and the rich colour of
some crown imperial lily growing out of
sand, straight as a young palm, luminous,
golden, distinct.

She knew the danger of the marshes.
She did not wish to die : who does that
loves? Whilst the earth feels the steps
of the feet we adore, to live is beautiful ;
whilst the eyes that we love unclose to the
day, the sunrise that wakens them still smiles
at us.

She shrank from any thought of death,
since death would be eternal silence, endless
separation; and she knew that to sleep on
the swamps was death as sure as to drown in
the deep sea. Yet the swamps stretched
between her and the moorland tombs.

A hag came up and hissed in her ear that
with such a face and such a form as hers
money was to be had thick as the salt
upon the sands, and Musa turned on her
her great troubled eyes, half in wonder, half
in scorn, and the woman shrank away.

She stool irresolute upon the shining
shore ; the old hag looked longingly at her,
but dared not speak again. Something in
the grand innocence of those troubled eyes
awed and frightened her.

Will you not even take my boat ? ' said
the voice of Danielloo near her, as he came
from under the shadow of the sea-wall, and
stood in her path, submissive, timid, with
bared head as before an empress.

c You are all alone,' he added, feebly and
stupidly, not knowing well what he did say.

4 Have I so many friends ? ' she said
curtly. * Nay, do not think I want any.
Now they have set me free I need nothing.'

But you will not go on foot all that
long way to your own moors ? '

4 Will I not ! It is so long since I have
felt the ground under my feet, I could w T alk
on, and on, and on, I think, all day, all
night '

You fancy so, because it is beautiful to
you to be free. That I understand. But
you are not as strong as you were a year ago.
You are weaker than you know. You may
faint by the way, and if you sleep out, you
know that sleep after sunset means death
where you go. Will you not let me take you

in my boat ? Or, if you choose the inland
road, may I not find a mule-cart for you,
an ox waggon? There are plenty in the
Orbetellano.'

4 You mean kindly,' she said, with her
mind made up, and beyond any pressure or
inclination from without. ' But I need
nothing but the freedom of my feet. It is
months since I saw a tuft of grass ! That
is pleasure enough ! '

4 Where are you going P '

4 1 am going home.'

To those tombs ? '

Where else ? '

He was silent. He dared not say to her,
6 there is a home in Sicily.'

He dared not. He would almost as soon
have dared to strike her a blow.

The old man said just now he would
not drive me out again,' she added; 'I think
he was sorry that he had been cruel.'

1 1 hope he was,' said Villamagna simply.
But oh, my dear, that is no place for you;
a hole fit only for the fox, and the bat, and
the owl. Will you not think a little before
you return to it ? '

A smile flitted over her face — pale as a
moonbeam, but of ineffable tenderness.

c It is dearer to me than if it were a
palace. I would never live elsewhere. You
have been good to me, that I see ; but let
me u'o now, and do not follow me.'

He looked at her with infinite longing ;
but he drew out of her path and left her to
go onward unmolested and unquestioned.
In the amorous impetuosity of his nature,
a finer and a rarer feeling had come
since her misfortunes had made her sacred
to him. He had done her some service, so
his lips were sealed, as were hers to Este.
He could not sny to her, c this you owe tome,'
without becoming a base hound in his
own sight,

After all I have done so little,' he
thought. ' But more she would not take.'

She would never know that he had done
anything ; in all likelihood she would never
have enough sympathy for, or remembrance
of, him to guess the share that he had had
in her release. But he thought it was best
so. If she had known she might have been
humbled, angered, troubled. She might have
even been afraid to go back to that solitude
which was all she knew of safety, all she
eared for as home.

And other thoughts thronged on him.

He had been born amidst the forests that
deck the seaward side of Etna, and the
fires of the mountain were in his blood and
in his soul. He had been always taught
from childhood that a just vengeance was a
holy thing ; — that women might sit down and
weep, but that men should scorch their tears
up with a dagger's flash and the smoke of
blood justly shed.

All these clays he had been saying always
to himself, ' Who is the coward that has left
her alone? Who is the beast that has forsaken
her ? ' and thinking and thinking, thus perpetually,
of one thing he had come slowly to
put together this and that, and to divine that
her lover had been the companion of Saturnine,
the man of late set free by the same
law which had condemned him.

But he was not sure.

No tortures would have forced the lips of
Musa to speak Este's name.

They might have done with her what
they would. She had the temper of Greek
Lena in her. She would never have
spoken.

He let her go away from him along the
sad sea-shore with the strewn weeds steaming
in the torrid sun ; then with a few long

steps lie overtook her and spoke in her

car.

4 It was the . Mantuann noble that you
loved ? '

She turned her head with a quick, frightened
anger, but in the warmth that mounted
over the pallor of her nice, in the look of
her dilating eyes, he knew the truth.

She could not lie, she would not speak ;
with that one swift glance over her shoulder,
she shook him off, and hastened on. He
had been answered.

He let her go once more onward and
northward towards the moors, alone.

She had escaped the horror of years of
an imprisoned life only through him ; but that
she did not know, and he would not have
her told of it.

1 She would be angry with me,' he
thought in his humility; the humility
which is the sign of all great love. He
knew besides how intolerable it would be to
her to learn that he had spent money in her
defence which she could never hope to be
able to repay to him.

He stood motionless, looking after her as
hon£ as she was in sight.

Ashen a curve in the land took her from

his eyes, he gave a deep short sigh, he muttered
a deadly oath; then he retraced his
steps and went back to the harbour wherein
the shallow salt water, the lateen craft in
which he had come hither was lying moored,
the sun on its one white sail. In another
moment he had leaped into the boat and
cast her loose.

There was wind blowing, a hot wind
straight from the east, and full of sand.

He set the boat's head towards far Sardinia,
lying hidden in the pallid clouds of
heat.

A little way out of the town, as she
reached the shade of the pine-woods that
lined the shore, the woman Pomfilia overtook
her.

6 Let me go with you,' she cried. ' You
are not well enough to go alone ; let me
go with you. My husband and the sheep
are on the moors ; I could go by the boats,
but I would rather walk with you.'

You are kind to think of it,' said Musa ;
but I would sooner be alone.'

1 Ah, you have had a rude time,' sighed
the shepherd's wife, ' and never might I have
heard of it but for that good Sicilian skipper
who came up upon my hills at home and

hunted me out and brought me here intime.'


1 Did he do that ? '

She coloured with pain and vexation ;
she could not bear to think she owed so
much to him.

Ay, that did lie,' said the woman of the
Apennines. ' To my thinking, but for him
those brutes would have caged you for half
your life and more. It would be well if
you could care for him ; lie has a good
heart and loves the ground you tread on. I
know not what the other one is, nor where ;
but for sure he left you alone in your trouble
and your adversity, and merits nothing.'

She paused, frightened at the look of
the eyes which silenced her without any need
of speech.

4 Go you by the boats,' Musa said curtly.
For me be not afraid ; I know my way
home. I thank you for all you have done,
and when you want shelter or food come tome.
But, if ever you dare speak to me
of the Sicilian again, I will not see you ever
any more.'

The shepherd's wife shrank away humbly,
and went back to the sea-wall, where boats
were always coming and going.

vol. in. s

Musa passed on under the pines.

She could not have borne the fret and
jar of the woman's well-meant condolence
and sympathy. She could not have borne
the sound of any human voice — save

one.

All she could bear to hear was the
breathing of the wind amongst the trees,
the lap of the sea water on the beach. All
human words only lacerated and hurt herbe
they gentle as they might.

She had been sorely wounded. The
insult of her captivity was bitter to a
nature which had inherited all her father's
pride, and something of her father's arrogance,
with a sensitive reserve that her lonely
life had fostered till she shrank like the
mimosa from any human touch.

She needed to be alone ; alone with the
shadows and the leaves, and the wide waters,
and the green wet plain, and all the things
that told her she was free.

She found her way back as the hunted
hare escaping travels footsore to its form
amongst the saintfoin and the spurge.

She was very tired. She was often faint ;
she had not a coin upon her ; she slept the
night out under a little hut of brake and

ling made for a goatherd, and deserted by
him when the heats had come.

She was feeble now ; her glorious perfection
of health and strength had gone from
her, and the symmetrical limbs that had never
known ache or pain were now languid, and
felt broken as she dragged them over the
great silent moorlands.

But the hope of her return sustained her
as it sustains the beaten panting fox, or the
stockton with shot in its little aching body
that yet flies on to die, if it can, in its own
familiar place.

Her one thought, her one terror, was, if
he should have been there, if he should
have found her absent, would he think
her so soon faithless and tired ? Would he
have gone away in anger and doubt ?

That thought of him, and the longing in
her to be at home once more, to be by her
own hearth and within the walls that held
her memories of him, kept up her fainting
spirit, kept erect her trembling limbs.

With unutterable joy she at last entered on
the wild woodlands, where a rising of the soil
let her look away eastward over the sea of
foliage, and search with yearning eyes for
the landmarks by which she would knows

2

IN MAUEMMJ.

from afar the place of the graves of the
Lucumo.

When she saw them at last, and the great
sober-oak rose up above its fellows to her
sight, then indeed she knew that she was
home once more.

She dropped on her knees and praised
God.

N the gloom of the great cork

forests of Sardinia Danielloo 

magna found Saturnino Mastarna.

They spoke together long in the

leafy solitudes of the mountain-side beside

the camp-fire lit by the Mastarna men.

In these primeval woods, in these
wild untrodden recesses of the almost barbaric
isle, the galley-slave was safer than
kings are on their thrones. He was once
more happy; he sent at pleasure a ball
from his rifle down the azure depths of the
air; lie drank deep and drank often; lie had
a long fine dagger in his belt ; he had
danger, plunder, bloodshed, the three things
that made the daily bread that he had pined
for and hungered for as the first food of life ;

he felt once more to have hold on his manhood
which they had done all they knew to
chain down and cudgel out of him. He could
lean against the ledge of granite and look down
through three thousand feet of air and foliage
on to the blue sea below, and lift his gun to
his shoulder, and deal death to whatever distant
thing he saw ; that was to live once
more.

The Sicilian said to him :

Either you or I '

And he made answer :

The Mastarna cure their own wounds.'

For the first time in all his lawless and
outlawed life, a duty, that he deemed the
one sacred, supreme duty of life, rose up
before him and claimed him. To pity he
might have been deaf; to shame, indifferent ;
to the wrath of earth or heaven, callous ; to
the cry of woman or child, adamant ; but
when vengeance called aloud to him, he
dared not refuse to answer. It was the only
invocation before which the men of the
blood of the Etruscan ^[astarna never ventured
to be deaf, or to dally on their road.

lee tombs were no longer what
they had been, when by means
of cleanliness, orderliness, and her
own sense of beauty she had contrived
to make them into the likeness of a
home. The vases, and bowls, and jars had
been for the most part broken in pieces by
the rabid fury of the disappointed steward,
the sculptured Chimaera and Typhon had
been hewn from the walls, the best of the
bronze utensils and candelabra had been
taken, and the statue that Este had made of
her had been carried away by the old man in
his greed, who, ignorant of all those matters,
had imagined it a work of Greek or Eoman
art. Her mandoline had been thrown down
and broken, her spinning-wheel had been

treated in the same way ; the whole place had
been defaced, mutilated, profaned ; but she
found her bed and bedding, and other things
of household use, and all her clothes and linen
there ; for the bribes of Danielloo Yillamagna
had been at work here also to secure to her
the humble necessaries of human life.

She began her existence once more in
this lonely abode, sadly content to be once
more where all her memories of joy had
been garnered, and where her lover, if he
looked for her ever, would surely come.
She took up the thread of her days where
it had been broken, but it was no longer the
same.

There was no more the body of the little
child beside her ; no more did the coffin of
Joconda seem to bring a quiet blessing on
the place.

And there were no more for her the joys
of a light foot and a glad heart, of a happy
ignorance of evil, of a simple self-taught
philosophy which was content with finding
daily bread and living like the birds of the
air, careless of tomorrow, trustful of nature.
All these were gone for ever.

Love had passed by there.

But they had let her come back. For

so much she was thankful. Lie clung to her
home underground as the stormy petrel clings
to hers.

Without it she would have strayed,
miserably and helplessly, as the rooks do for
awhile, when their elm-trees are felled and
their nests destroyed. After awhile the
rooks go and make their home elsewhere,
but she could never have done that ; here
alone was memory close about her, here
alone had love been with her.

She began her life again with something
of her old intrepidity, and infinite relief in
the peaceful sense of silence round her.
She had not a penny in the world ; she had
only her two hands with which to maintain
herself. There was some store of oats and
other things which had escaped the notice
of the men, and were safe from the quest
of rats in an old coffer which she had brought
there on the mule's back long before on the
day after Joconda's burial. There was also
a little store of rice, beans, coffee, and some
wine, which had been put there by the
Sicilian when he had persuaded the old
steward to allow her the use of the tombs.
There was enough to live on for some few
weeks ; she looked no further. She would

resume her old habits of work little by
little, and so maintain herself.

The consolation of the fresh air, of the
sight of the green autumnal earth, of the
sounds of fluttering wings and rustling feet
of forest creatures, revived the soul in her,
gave her back hope and health.

Surely some day he would come.

That was all she thought of: she sat
hour after hour looking over the wolds,
hoping against hope for a step that never came.

The golden autumnal days went by,
beautiful, full of the fragrance of falling
leaves, and of the music of the woodlark,
and the chaffinch, and the song-sparrow,
and the little robins come from the high
hills or from foreign lands.

With every dawn that rose she thought,
Perhaps he will come to-day.' With every
nightfall she thought, ' Perhaps tomorrow.'

It was more than a year since Este had
sent his messenger to her with his gifts which
she had repulsed, and that letter which
she had torn in a thousand pieces, when the
men of Prince Altamonte had invaded her
sanctuary, lest any should take it perforce
from her and read it and cause the writer
trouble.

A whole year and more had passed by,
and she had heard nothing of him, he had
given no sign that lie remembered her.

True, where he was, amidst his new
pleasures and his new riches, her memory
passed over him again and again, a score
of times each day, with a sharp reproach in
it, and he said always to himself, ' tomorrow
I will go ; next week I will go
and let the days and the weeks slip away
into the abyss of the past.

But she could not tell that. She could
only know that he had forgotten. She tried
to believe it was but natural and no cruelty.
She was young, and she still clung to hope.
To-morrow he would come.

One day in early November weather — the
grand, buoyant, sunlit weather that comes in
this season in these lands, with wondrous
pomp of sunsets and lovely noontide warm as
midsummer, and a delicious stir and freshness
in all the sweet-smelling air — she was sitting
at the entrance of the sepulchre, when a
figure did appear in the transparent light
of early day, and came onward across the
garlands, and she rose and regarded him
with dilated eyes, knowing him even though
he wore the garb of a Campagna shepherd.

The great, gaunt, sunburnt figure was
between her and the sunlight. He looked
old; his hair was white, and white were
his shaggy eyebrows, from under which his
sombre cavernous eyes gazed out in a
savage pain, like those of a great animal
struck by a bullet. He wore a broad hat
and clothes of goatskin, and bore in his
hand the crozier-shaped crook of southern
shepherds.

He paused before her, leaving some yards
of earth between herself and him. He
seemed afraid to approach her. She at a
glance had known him again.

You are Saturnino Mastarna,' she said,
and her voice had neither pity nor scorn in
it, but a weary calmness of indifference.
Nothing mattered to her.

6 1 am Saturnino Mastarna,' he answered
mechanically, whilst his eyes rested on her,
and he said to himself, ' Yes, it is she ;
Serapia's child ; my child. She has Serapia's
face and mine, blended together, as when
we stooped over a stream the water blent in
one our two reflections ; and all the life and
the fire are gone out of her, and it is he
who has done that.'

c You are Saturnino Mastarna,' she said

again. 4 What do you do here ? Will they
not take you if they see you ? '

They shall not see me ; I know how to
hide. They watch for me in Sardinia. I
have been there with mountain men of
Mastarna blood. I got away on a good
ship : a Sicilian who loves you pitied me.'

She was silent ; it was nothing to her.
She only wished that he would go away. It
was not fear that she felt for him, but apathy ;
the apathy of a mind which has but one
thought, of a heart which has one emotion.

Then she remembered that this man had
once sent her Este ; her eyes softened.

Come inside,' she said to him, ' I will
give you bread and a little wine that is
there ; you will be safer within. Come.'

He followed her. He took the food and
the drink, but remained standing. His eyes
followed her with a pathetic yearning. He
was saying always to himself, ' She is
mine, she is Serapia's ; and all she knows
of me is that I stole her gold, and sent to
her the coward who has killed her heart
in her before she has seen a score of years
on earth.'

She served him with the little she
possessed, then seated herself with those

fatigued movements which now nearly always
replaced her once vigorous and agile
animation.

He leaned against the stone wall where
the dancing-boys and the lotus flowers were
painted and rested his gaze on her timidly,
as a dog looks that loves and is yet afraid
of a blow from the hand he would caress.

5 You sheltered Este ? ' he said suddenly.

The little colour that there was in her
face faded out of it utterly.

I did,' she answered coldly.

You fed him, you tended him, you
succoured him, you loved him, you gave
him all you had to give ; and when they
set him free he left you and forgot you —
is it not so ? '

She lifted her face ; it was as cold as
marble, and as stern.

When I blame him, then may you.
Leave his name alone.'

8 1 sent him to you — I ! '

4 It is for that I bid you break my
bread,' she said, with so great and exquisite
a tenderness melting the coldness
of her voice that it thrilled even the
savage and brutalised soul of Saturnino.

He said nothing ; he was thinking of that

night of flight when, under the snows of
Monte Labbro, lying beneath the tangle
of rnscus and arbutus where the Fiora
water ran between the rocks, he had
said to his companion of the galleys:

To that tomb there comes a maiden
with grand eyes like two stars. She will
let you shelter there, and will not speak,
I think ; but if you fear her speaking —
well, a fawn's neck is soon slit.'

Why had not his tongue rotted with
cancer in his mouth ere ever it had spoken
those words !

I sent him to you ! I sent him to
you ! ' he muttered ; and he could not
comprehend why she — his daughter and
Serapia's ! — did not leap up in rage and
curse him. There had been but one answer
from the Mastarna to what was faithless.
Yet she, she bade him welcome because
he had sent this man to her!

He did not understand. He looked
down on her with his angry and bloodshot
eyes ; furious imprecations rose to his lips,
but something in the look of her held
him mute ; he was afraid to say the thing
he thought.

Should he tell her what he was to her ?

Should he claim her by that tie of
parentage ?

Should he say to her, 'I, who stole
your gold, I, who have a hundred murders
on my soul, I, whose name the Maremma
has shuddered at and gloried in, I am
your father ? '

He had been a selfish tyrant always ;
a brute, with little thought but for his
own passions, his own greets, his own revenge
; seldom, since his earliest years, had
he felt any single unselfish or generous
impulse such as had moved him when he
had found the grandson of Joconda sleeping
in the snow ; and the accursed life
of the galleys, that scorches up every wellspring
of feeling, and withers up every
slender shoot of better instincts, had made
him a devil rather than a man.

But now a movement of generosity, of
self-sacrifice, stirred in him.

Better, he thought, better and kinder
to leave her in ignorance for ever; better
not to lean the weight of his own immeasurable
guilt, of his own unutterable
past, upon her. She had burden enough
already.

It was the first instinct of any nobility, of

any self-denial, that had ever moved him
since the hour that Joconda had held up
her stoup of wine to his mouth in the

cathedral square of Grosser.

lie longed to fall down before her;
to cry aloud to her; to say to her — c Pity
me, it' you cannot love me; your mother
loved me once ! '

His heart, so lomb; denied all natural
a (sections, so long without any kind of
tenderness given or received, so long barren
as the rock in the midst of the saltwater
on which he had been caged, grew
thirst' with longing to slake itself at these
simple springs of natural love at which the
poorest can drink and for awhile feel rich.

He had been a fierce and cruel creature,
often following his instincts as the
tiger and the vulture followed theirs ; but
he had not been without fine impulses
here and there, and he had been capable
of love.

All his soul looked on her now out
of his deep wild eyes. The words rushed to
his lips that would tell her the truth ; words
which never again could be elated. Almost
he had cast himself down before her
and cried to her — ' I stole your gold, I

VOL. [II. T

sent your lover here, I have a thousand
crimes upon my head, I am steeped inhuman
blood ; but I am yours, and you
are mine : take me, hide me, pardon me,
pity me ! '

But something stronger than himself,
more powerful even than this hunger for
compassion and affection which possessed
him, held him mute.

He had done her harm enough ; why
should he do her more injury?

The dead woman of Savoy had kept
his secret faithfully ; should he do less ?

He, who never had stayed his tongue in
cursing, or held his hand back from a
blow, choked down the passionate desire
in him and said to himself : ' Nay ; why
should she know ? '

Why should she know ?

Why should he lay his burden of foul sins
upon the back of this, his lamb ? It seemed
to him that if he told her he would do the
cruellest thing ever done in all his years of
cruelty. He, who had hurled a traitor
over the rocks like a mere bough of deadwood,
and drawn his steel without a pause
across the throats of harmless captives,
dared not do this one last selfishness.

He would take his life in his hand, he

thought, and go out and wander alone, and
leave her in ignorance. He would avenge
her: that was all he had to do with her.

She, forgetful of him, sat on the stone
seat ; her head drooping, her hands cross
on her knee.

He looked at her, and said to himself
that this one good deed he would do ere
he died, he would keep silence ; he would
not speak in weakness and self-pity, as a
woman would have spoken.

He would avenge her ; and life might
blossom afresh for her. When the summer
is young, if the spikenard and the balm are
mown down with the grass, they send forth
new blooms from the bleeding roots. Si i
he thought.

lie leaned against the stone of the wall,
and forgot that he was an outlaw and a
hunted felon. He only remembered that
he was her father, and, so, Este's judge.

He saw the face of her lover as it
had been with him in the twilight of the
woods, in the scorch of the sunlight on
the sea, a beautiful, proud, pensive face, like
one of Signorelli's angels; and he stretched
his hands out, his sinewy hands, with their

i 2

grip of steel, that had clone to death so
many, and in fancy he clenched the slender
fair throat that had uttered false words,
and made the month that had kissed her
open wide in the ghastly smile of suffocation,
and choked the flickering breath into
silence.

A cry of horror from her at his look
roused him from his trance.

4 What do yon see ? What do you
think of? ' she said, as she rose in terror.
6 There is no one here who would injure
you. I am alone ; all alone.'

4 Yes ; you are alone,' said Saturnine
with a strange look, as he withdrew his
mind with painful effort from the vision
that had absorbed him. She was alone :
she who had loved her lover as few
women love on earth.

He gathered himself together with a
heavy sigh ; such as might burst from the
aching heart of a lion that lay dying on
the desert sands with the vultures waiting
above head in the light.

He shook his rough clothes, and felt for
his long knife safe within his bosom.

Then he stood before her a moment
and looked at her ; he did not speak.

'You will hurt no one?' she said,
touched to a vague anxiety at his aspect.

I will never hurt you,' he answered
her, with a tenderness deep as her own
when she breathed Este's name.

Lay your hand on my forehead one
moment, he said a little later, ' and wish
me my sins forgiven.'

He stooped to her as he spoke.

She hesitated a brief while ; then she
made the sign of the cross on his brow,
and rested her hand on it an instant as he
had asked.

1 I wish you well,' she said softly, ' I
wish you well on earth, and after death may
God be merciful to you. I bless you, for
you sent me him ! '

Saturnino rose erect, with a curse ; his
face lost in one moment its fleeting gentleness,
and grew black as a night in tempest.


Do I owe your touch to his memory? '
lie said savagely through his ground teeth.

Then he gazed at her once more ;
furiously, longingly, thirstily ; and without
other words turned his lace from her and
went out into the open day.

Once he looked back.

Already she had forgotten both his
presence and his departure.

She was seated on the low stone chair,
thoughtful, passive ; her hands were lying on
her knee ; her eyes rested upon the ground ;
her whole body seemed to listen for a step
that never came ; her whole soul was absorbed
in remembrance.

He looked one instant, and yet another,
and another ; and yet another still —
his gaze, he knew, would never rest on
her again.

Then he drew his long slim dagger
from its sheath and let the sun-rays play
on it ; it was an old friend, a loyal comrade
; he had no other upon earth.

Then he took his way across the marshes
and the moorlands ; going southward, where
Rome lay.

tioii of

;S he passed away over the moss-grown
ear tli, and she sat therein
the shadow of the Lucnmo's
chamber, some sudden persepolis
words, some sudden sense
of the menace which had been in them,
came to her, breaking through her absorbed
mind as the glare of a torch burns through
a dull grey fog.

Whilst he was with her the full purport
of what he had said had not dawned on her ;
she had dully wondered why this man, a
stranger, an outlaw, should think of her in
any Away ; but now, in his absence, certain of
his muttered disconnected words came back
on her recollection. A great dread suddenly
seized her; surely danger menaced Este.

Perhaps, she thought, this man was mad,
perhaps his long accumulated crimes, and his
many years of captivity, had made him lose
his reason ; but, mad or sane, remembering
how he had looked, how he had spoken, she
began to doubt, she began bitterly to lament
that she had blessed him and wished his sins
forgiven him. Assassination had been no
more to him than the slitting of the kid's
throat is to the butcher ; human life had
never been of more account to him than the
grass of the field as it drops is to the mower ;
he, like Etruscan Tarquin, had held men of
no greater sanctity than the poppies growing
with the corn.

There had been cruel hate in him when
he had spoken of Este ; why had she not
seen that before, why had she let him go
away ? An agony of fear came on her ; the
worst of all fear to bear because it was so
vague.

Instinct rather than any reasoning made
her feel that the return of Saturnino meant
some peril, if not the greatest, to her lost
lover.

Would aught save crime have had the
power to lure him from the secrecy of the
Sardinian forests ?

She thought not.

She remembered the gleam in his great
black eyes when he had spoken Este's name,
the steel-like gleam of an unquenchable hatred.

Some sinister motive must have brought
the outlaw from those dark glades where
he was safe from arrest unless the State
sent soldiery swarming through the forests
and over the mountains in greater numbers
than it would ever spare for the mere
sake of capturing a galley-slave ; and her
instinct told her that no motive would be
ever so grave, no magnet ever so powerful,
to the brigand of Santa Fiora as vengeance
: such vengeance as can only quench
its thirst in blood, such vengeance as on the
soil of the Italiote has ever been held as
justice and as holiness.

She could not tell what root his desire
of vengeance sprang from ; whether it were
some fancied wrong long brooded over, some
smouldering fire of antagonism, which had
burst into flame in envy at Este's liberty ;
or whether it were some fantastic sense of
amends owing from him to her, because,
through him Este had first come to the
shelter of the tombs ; she had heard in days
of her childhood the stories that were told

in Maremma of the impulses of capricious
honour, of uncertain generosity, which had
at times broken through the ferocity and
selfishness of his natural temper. Which of
these might be the motive that ruled him
she could not tell ; but such instinct as makes
the dog scent danger for his master, whilst
yet nothing is seen or heard, made her
tremble for the one whom she loved, whom
she had so long sheltered and defended
that to save him from his enemies was still
second nature to her.

In an instant the thought that Este still
might need her poured new life into her limbs,
awakened the old bold spirit in her that
had sunk into the apathy of sorrow, and
revived in her alike the courage and the
subtlety which had so often served him
when he had been a hunted criminal with
a price set on his head. She knew at once
what she would do, what she must do.

In open dispute she could never hope to
vanquish or disarm Saturnino Mastarna ; by
betrayal of him she could never stoop to
arrest his steps, she would sooner have
killed him ; she knew that what she had todo
was to watch him, and if he let Este
alone, then would she in turn leave him

alone. She knew that she might suspect him
falsely, but that if his soul were bent on
guilt no words of hers would turn him from
it ; whilst on the other hand, if he had no
such thought, to gall him by suggestion and
accusation of it might sting into crime a
temper which had always found in crime
the fiercest joy and most lasting desire of
life.

She wasted not one moment, but took
her course with that swift decision which
had often served her in good stead. In
Este's service she recovered the elasticity,
the force, the energy, the physical animation,
which since he had left her had gone out of
her as utterly as its colour and palm-like
grace go out of a dianthus that has been
plucked from its place in the rocks beneath
the sea and cast down to perish on the sand.

She took some bread, some maize, and a
gourd of water, took that three-edged
poignard of Florence which Este had found
in the brigand's lair by Santa Fiora, and had
left behind him here, took one little silver piece
that had remained in the old coffer with the
corn, and, closing the stone doors of the
tombs behind her, went out on the track of
Saturnino.

To her skilled eye, used to trace such
slender signs, the marks of his footsteps were
visible on the wet mossy ground he had
traversed. She followed them ; they went
always southward, straight ahead to that
golden horizon where Borne lay, sixty
miles or more beyond the moors, out of
sight, sunk down in the sunlit ocean of the
air.

Her heart stood still as that southward
direction of his steps brought confirmation
of that sudden fear which had dawned on
her as though its light were shed from
heaven. But it was not for the first time
that terror gave her fresh courage, as the
spur wrenches fresh effort from the sinking
horse. To baffle and disarm this man
would need all her prudence and all her
boldness, that she knew ; and almost her
terror was effaced by the sense of returning
happiness which came to her with the
thought of once more shielding Este from
any danger.

She walked on and on, cautiously though
quickly ; stooping every now and then to
verify the traces of Saturnino's passage
through the woodland. There was but one
path practicable southward ; and she knew

that lie would not dare to show himself
on the main road, the once Consular and
Imperial Highway that ran far nearer the
moor than did this mule track over the moors
and meadows, which was only in use by the
charcoal-burners, the herdsmen, the foresters,
and the hunters, and which now mounted
over tufa or sandstone rocks, now delved
down into wooded hollows, and now was
interrupted by brawling streams descending
from the hills.

She had walked perhaps three miles
from her own abode, when a rise in the
ground let her look far ahead, and in
the bright light, dark against the sunny
sky, still holding on straight towards the
south, she saw the tall gaunt figure she
pursued. He was moving quickly, still clad
in the goatskin clothes which shepherds
wear, and still carrying the crozier-shaped
crook and the wallet on his back.

She had him in sight ; she breathed
more freely ; now there was nothing to do
but to keep upon his track and go wherever
he went, unseen by him. It would be difficult
and it would be dangerous ; but her
spirit was not lightly daunted, once aroused.
She felt for the dagger in her girdle as he

had felt for his ; it was the only sure friend
that either of them trusted. She drew the
breezy autumn air more deeply into her
lungs, that she might get strength from it
as men do from draughts of wine. She
walked on, keeping in his path as surely as
his shadow did, watching with untiring
eyes every movement that he made ; now
losing him perforce from sight as the ground
he traversed sank beneath the bushes, regaining
sight of him as he emerged from the
scrub of myrtle, of oak, or of olive, and
climbed some rugged steep over which the
bridle-path ran.

She marvelled that he dared be out thus
in open daylight ; but he trusted to his disguise
in part, and in part to the fact that the
State believed him in Sardinia, and hunted
him no more, letting sleeping dogs lie as the
proverb bade them do. In truth they were
not unwilling that he should thus escape ;
his name had once been like a trumpet-call
to all Maremma, and they were content that
he should get away and trouble the law no
more. He had suffered sixteen years of the
galleys ; to all the populace this seemed
punishment enough, too much in truth, for a
bold, open-handed son of the soil who had

taken to the hills as other men took to the
ploughshare or the forge. He knew that
the popular sympathy would everywhere be
with him, timid, yet strong enough to make
the law sometimes willingly blind, relying
OB it, and on the solitariness of the Maremma
wilds, he walked boldly on towards his goal,
and she, unseen by him, followed step for
step.

Happily for her he only moved by day,
and this by reason that the nights were
moonless, and the half-covered mule tracks
which he alone durst follow could not be
found, even by his knowledge of the country,
after dark. So at night sleep did refresh
her, even though it were fitful, startled,
and roofless. The owls flew by her and
the pole-cat glided past, and the bats and
the rodents stirred the air and the grass,
and the wild ducks rushed by on the chill
northern winds. But these were all old
friends and comrades ; she was afraid of no
creatures of the earth and sky. She slept
on a pile of fallen leaves, in the hollow of a
tree, on the leeward bide of a rock, anywhere
that gave her momentary rest, and
let her see from some safe shelter Saturnino
arise and go forth as the dawn came.

For three days she kept him in sight
often enough to be able to follow in his
track. For three nights, when he crept
within some hut that he had made for as a
shelter, she wrapped herself in her woollen
mantle, and rested amongst the leaves hard
by, and slept fitfully the deep dreamless sleep
of great bodily fatigue.

It was late in autumn ; it was not certain
death to pass the night abroad as it was in
summer seasons. Cool winds from the north
had swept away the noxious gases of the
canicular heats ; there were damp and cold
to dread, but the malaria had in a great
measure gone with the past summer. Moreover,
her nerves were at that tension, her
mind was in that overwrought anxiety, in
which women, through all ages of the world,
have performed miracles and passed through
physical dangers of all kinds without physical
harm.

There was always with her the dread
lest at any moment he should see her
and take her for a spy upon him, and
slit her throat with his knife as he had
once bade Este do. There was the dread,
also, lest at any moment, from the
inequalities of the ground and the impossibility

of drawing near to him, lie should
escape her sight and go whither she could
not follow him. When sleep conquered her
despite herself, and pressed her heavy eyelids
downwards, she awoke with the apprehension
of his having gone away from
his resting-place during the night whilst she
slept. If she once fairly lost him from view,
she might, she knew, never come on his
track again ; and now that she had left the
territory that was familiar to her, and crossed
the Fiora water, and come upon lands that
were utterly strange to her, she might, if
she lost sight of him, lose her own way
hopelessly, and perish of hunger on the
waste.

He, she saw, turned aside at times into
the huts of shepherds or of the ploughmen
come to till the corn-lands, and there no
doubt ate, and paid for what he ate with
Sardinian pence, and no doubt told them he
was a shepherd, too, going towards the
Campagna to rejoin his flocks. But she had
only the loaf of bread and the handful of
maize she had brought with her ; they
would last her, eaten sparingly, four or five
days, but after that she would have nothing
except the one little silver [>i"<v, and six
. til u

began to be afraid lest her strength should
fail her ere she knew whither he went.

Between sunrise and sunset he covered
from fifteen to twenty miles, and she did
the same. Two years before such walking
as this would have been mere sport to her ;
but now she was no longer as strong as she
had been, her splendid vitality had been
rudely shaken, and her limbs began to
tremble as she moved, and she began at
times to stumble and recover herself with
effort. Still she kept onwards, and was
scarcely sensible of anything she felt from
the passion of anxiety that possessed her.
She could not but believe some wicked
purpose sent this murderer on this strange
pilgrimage on foot to Borne.

Of the land he knew every rood. In
all the province there was not a mule-track
he had not followed, not a cluster of hovels
he had not visited in those many years of
vigil and of violence, when his lair had been
made by the snows of Monte Labbro, and
his gallant person had been pointed out with
pride at the feasts of the mountain villages,
and even in the market-places of Grosseto,
of Massa, and of Volterra. He was at home
here in these woodlands on these moorlands,

as any dog-fox that had burrowed therefrom
the time li had been a cub. The
map of all this wild country was clear in

his brain, and all that the prisons had done
to him had not made one memory fainter
of all that labyrinth of foliage, all that
desert of green pasture, all those untrodden
hillsides, all those barren moors silent as
Sahara.

As a child he had run through them
barefoot, light-hearted as the scampering
goats ; as a man he had ridden over them,
trodden through them, hidden there, fought
there, there loved and hated, and there
called with one shrill whistle a score of his
men from bush and briar. Until the iron
heel of that irreat gaoler Death should
stamp his brain out into nothingness, he
would remember every wind of the dizzy
path up the lace of the rocks, every spring
that coursed through the moss and the ling,
every hole to hide in where the wild olive
grew with the holy-thorn above the ruddy
travertine or the yellow sandstone.

So he dreamt not of descending to the
sea-shore, but held on his way inland ;
whilst the Apennines that had given him
shelter so long behind their ramparts of

D -2

stone cast their wide purple shadows over
the plain.

And behind him, unseen, followed the
tall, slender figure of Musa. with the sun
shining on her pale stern face, and in her
luminous eyes ; as if the God he had outraged
so long had bidden a young angel, an
angiolin, come down from its watch amidst
th moving worlds of heaven to follow in
the footsteps of this one bloodstained, brutal,
human creature.

He, knowing nothing, pursued his way,
whilst the noonday light and the afternoon
shades in turn came across his path. Rome
was still fifty miles away, if one.

Her greatest fear was lest he should
descend to the sea, and take the sea way
south ; if he did that it would be impossible
to follow him or to know whither he went ;
even if her boat had not been lost, she
could not have gone back for it in time to
overtake any craft in which he might sail.

But lie did not go down towards the
shore. He was indeed afraid of the coast,
where at every hamlet there was some rural
guard, some watchman, or some soldier quartered
at one of those Martello towers which
dot the shore at intervals.

Every rood of the soil that she trod was
full of Etruscan memories, but that she
knew not.

Here had been Vulci and Tasmania ; here
had been Tarquin and its vast necropolis ;
here had been Care and the Centum
Celle; the melancholy Maria flowing through
immense and silent meadows to the sea, the
low sombre hills that rose and fell in monotonous
sequence, and now revealed the belfries
of Cornet, and now the blue waters
by what had once been Qraviscse, whilst
on the eastward they rose higher and higher,
and met the dark grey wall of the mighty
Ciminian, half hidden in stormy clouds — all,
all, had been Etruria Maritima, and beneath
the mastic and the locust-tree, beneath the
mattress of the moors and the salt-rush of
the marsh, there were cities, and palaces,
and ramparts, and labyrinths, and metropolis,
with their buried treasures that never more
would see the light of day.

But she knew nothing of this.

She only saw a sad wild country that
was unknown to her, vegetation that grew
scantier and sicklier at each step, green
swamps that had a familiar look, and moorlands
that looked endless, and had no living

creature anywhere upon them save the meek
and melancholy buffalo, and the wild mares
and colts that here and there swept like a
hurrying wind over the brown garlands.

Borne, too, said nothing to her.

The name that alike the poet and the
scholar, the devotee and the agnostic, can
never hear without emotion, to her had no
meaning save as a place where her lover
dwelt. In her childhood she had heard
speak of Borne as of the city of the Holy
Father, and had had vague fancies of it as
of a great white throne set upon the everlasting
hills, with walls of ivory and gates of
gold, and all the angels as its ministers, and
on it for ever a light like that of sunrise.

That had been her vision of it as a child.

Now she knew it was what men called
a city : a place terrible to her as of meeting
roofs and brawling crowds ; a place where
he lived, and living, forgot Maremma.

Is it far, so very far, to Borne ? ' she
wondered, with a sinking heart and tired feet.

Saturnino had still chosen the inland
instead of the seaward way ; he still feared
those w r watchtower of the coast, the soldiery
who were perpetually on vigil to seize the
smugglers from the isles,

Iii lieu of descending to follow the Via
Aurelian where it wound down a few miles
oil" the coast, by Santa Marinella and
Santa Several and mediaeval Palo, and the
volcanic soil and the steep ravines by Nerves
where the long avenues of cliff sepulchres
are all that remain to show the site of Care,
and gaining so the mouth of Tiber to ascend
the stream in any boat that he might find by
Fiumicino, he still struck across the country
by cattle-tracks known alone to himself and
wild men like him, and chose to leave the Mac-cares
morasses untrodden in his rear, and
followed the course of the Arrone river as
far as the high cliffs up by forsaken Galena.

At this deserted rock-village he slept that
night, the fifth night of his pilgrimage, and
she, still unseen by him, climbed also in the
twilight of the early autumn night, and there
rested also as a hill-hare worn out with
travel might have done.

He, all unconscious that she was near,
slept soundly with rude stones for his bed.

In his days of pride his range had sometimes
swept as far as those wood-clothed
el ills that rise about the lake of Bracciano,
the Lacus Sabatinus of the Eomans. In
that time he had been well known in

all this country side, and the wayside
warehouse further away on the stream of
the Due Fosse had once been proud to
entertain the lordly brigand from the Apennine
hills when it had seemed good to him
to sweep down on travellers too curious and
too incautious, riding or driving out by the
Via Flaming to see Veii or Scrofano or the
classic baths of Apollo's Vicarello.

Ere the light of daybreak had come
over the green mountain of Eocca So-maria
in the east, he rose this night from
his rouo'h couch of stones, and broke his
fast on dried goat's-flesh and a draught
from his flask of wine, and then began to
descend the hills, using greater prudence and
more wariness now that he neared Eome.

Musa, who had been yet earlier awake,
had bathed her face and feet in the Arrogant
was watching to see him stir, herself
screened amidst the brushwood.

It was a fair morning, golden and light.

Over the Campagna away southward there
were white mists that hovered longest where
the Tiber rolled, but eastward on these
rocks the woods were all alight with sunbeams,
and the glancing streams ran sparkling
through grasses, starred with dragon-flower

and cyclamen, and shaded with heavy
boughs of beech and chestnut.

Even in the strained, vague terror which
filled her mind to the exclusion of any other
emotion, a sense of the beauty of this morning
smote her, and her eyes involuntarily
dwelt upon the scene around her.

Before her, some sixteen miles away, there
was a dome that lifted itself from the circling
mists and the green shadows of a great
plain ; a dome that looked blue as a hyacinth,
ethereal as a shadow itself, against the clearness
of the morning skies. The plain was
the Roman Campagna, and the dome was
the dome of San Pietro.

She did not know it, but dimly she
divined it. Something of that ineffable thrill
which comes to all who thus behold it
moved her even in her ignorance.

'Yonder must be Rome,' she thought,
and knelt a moment on the grass, forgetting
Saturnino.

The moment passed, she sprang to her
feet again, remembering her errand; alert,
lithe, agile, wary even in her fatigue as
any forest animal that watches for the hunters
to spring away at the first sound it hears.

Saturnino went down the cliffs, and

passed the Arronc by a ford, and, giving
La Storta a wide berth to his right, kept
clear of the post road and passed by a path
across the downs to Isola Farnese. He
walked slowly now, being himself fatigued ;
she followed over the turf, a grey gliding
fjg-nre, little noticeable, for the hood of her
woollen mantle was drawn over her head.
On these open fields she feared that he
might turn his head and at a glance recognise
her.

He did not ascend the cliff to Isola, but
passed on beneath it, still keeping clear of
the highway.

The ' Troy of Italy ' lay behind them on
its bare ground ; but of this she knew
nothing. Beyond that were the dark heights
where the waters of Tivoli fall, and the
snow-line of the Sabine range ; in front
stretched the Campagna, broken here into
narrow ravines, and with scattered groves
of trees, whose golden leafage caught the
sunshine of the early day as the morning
broadened behind the frozen summit of
the Lioness, and over the once sacred oaks
of Eleusinian Musing.

To her they were but such long heaving
mountain-lines, such hills, with barren sides

and wooded summits, such downs and

moors, with the yellow dragon's-month, the
amethyst-hued cyclamen, in their grass, as
she had had always about her in autumn
in Maremma. Even the tumuli and the
tombs that often marked the way were
familiar features in her home landscape.
But that blue dome in the blue air afar off,
that bell-flower which seemed to hang downwards
from the floating clouds, that was new,
strange, marvellous ; that seemed to call
her forward towards it, that seemed to
say to her, ' hasten, hasten, here is the
city of God.'

Only before her, between her and it, went
the form of Saturnino like the shadow of
Death.

When they left the glens and broken
ground, and came out on the level turf of the
Campagna nearer Eome, she was afraid that
he would turn and see her. But he did not.
He was walking a little lamely now, but
with a dogged persistence, as if the thoughts
with which he was accompanied would not
let him delay or rest.

He knew very well that now he was
going with open eyes straight into the jaws
of danger, and his dread of capture was

much greater than his dread of death. He
knew that at any moment a question put
to him, a suspicion caused to any guard or
soldier, might fling him back into the
hands of the State. Away in the wild
country he had been comparatively secure ;
but here, where perforce he must mingle
with other men, and perforce pass the
city barriers, he knew that at any moment
the law might fall on him, and claim
him. But he went on all the same, feeling
every now and then for his dagger, which
was hidden beneath his goatskin breeches.

A body of mounted carabineers chanced
to ride past, their horses' hoofs cutting deep
into the wet Campagna turf; he turned
quickly aside and hid himself behind a
mound of tufa.

Turning, he saw her, but he saw in her only
a peasant girl coming with her head hooded
against the keen winds that were blowing up
from the mouth of Tiber away in the west.

When the mounted patrol had trotted
by and were lost to sight beyond a fringe
of alders on the Valca's curve, he did not
even think to look for her ; a mere woman
of the Campagna, as he thought, coming
to the city as so many come.

He was absorbed in one terrible purpose,
in one mission which was the only
shape of duty that had ever guided his
steps; its preoccupation obscured in him
his usual wariness of eye and brain.

By this time it was afternoon, for he
was footsore and walked slowly, and the
ground was for the most part rough and
heavy, and often encumbered with thorns
and brambles and stones half sunken in
the turf.

They met few living things ; now and
then an ox-cart came along the deep ruts
in the turf; a bird catcher spread his nets
to snare the greenfinch and the goldfinch
in the berried brionv ; a mountain lad
went by playing on his pipes a melancholy
hymn ; a shepherd lay asleep amidst
his nibbling flock, whilst his dog watched.

That was all.

They were now treading on what was
once the Via Cassia, and they pursued it some
little way ; but in lieu of going on by it to
the Ponte Molle, Saturnino crossed the green
turf by paths he knew, and at length entered
on a broad crowded public road, which once
had been the great Flaminian Way. He
deemed it less perilous to pass through the

gates with other men than to endeavour to
enter the city secretly by any suspected
means.

Her heart tightened as she saw him
take the road.

It would be far more difficult to follow
him in any highway or any street than it
had been upon the downs and moors, where
the clear air showed every figure on them
as far as the human eye could reach in vision.
Once in a street, a momentarily-gathering
crowd, the passage of a waggon, the twist
of any unknown passage, the barrier of a
group of people, any unforeseen trifle, might
take him from her sight, never, perhaps,
to be found again in this great city which
appalled her as she drew nigh it with its
over-spreading walls and roofs, and palaces
and cupolas and towers, and dusky piles of
red-brown travertine, and gigantic churches
that seemed to surge, colossal, from a petrified
sea of stone.

Fear took the place of that exaltation
which had sustained her sinking limbs sofar
: the nameless fear which comes on all
free forest things when they are driven to
approach a city.

She, like them, was bold so long* as the

width of the green garlands, of the heath-grown
moors, was around her ; as long as
she possessed the lovely light of the im-obscured
skies, the wholesome wine of the
strong wind, the fresh fragrance of the
dewy soil.

But as she drew nigh this wilderness of
stone, of brick, of marble, of iron, she sawn
more the purple flower of the great dome :
she only saw a labyrinth of men's making
in which she would wander miserably ;
finding not her lover, and losing her hold
upon his assassin.

A greater terror than that which she had
felt in the prisons and judgment-chamber
of Orbetello fell upon her. If she could not
find Este, if she lost sight of this man benton
his destruction, what could she do ? How
could she warn him whom she would have
given' every drop of her life-blood to save ?

The autumn day was drawing to a
close; the splendour of sunset in November
was beginning to lend its deeper gold,
its darker blue, to the western heaven ;
the bells of Borne were rocking and beating
on the air.

With that frost of fear on her heart, she
followed Saturnino as he passed through

the wine-carts, the hay-waggons, the horses,
the mules, the brawling men, the shouting
children, about the gates of the Porta
del Populo. He had thrown his wallet aside
when he had left Graver ; he had nothing
on him that the customs-guards coidd ask
to examine. He passed them unnoticed ;
a tall, sinewy, black-browed, brown-checked
shepherd, like so many that came down
from the mountains, with their goats and
asses, to go the round of the streets at
daybreak.

She passed also ; a slender, youthful
figure, clad in homely homespun clothes.
She was in Borne.

She had walked sixty miles in five days.
She looked neither to right nor left.
She only watched the figure of Saturnine,
towering a full head above the throngs
through which his long stride passed.

Once only he paused ; it was to go into
a wineshop, and, under cover of drinking,
ask the way to the palace that Este had
inherited ; the palace once of a Pope's mistress
; a grand and gorgeous place, standing
with its sculptured walls on a small piazza,
dark and old, across the water on Tastes
It had a wooded garden sloping to

the Tiber, as the Farnesina had. So they
told him in the wine-shop, making clear
to him the way that lie should take.

His back was to the entrance-door ashe
drank, and paid, and spoke. She leaned
against the lintel and listened, and heard.

She had believed all along that he came
thither to kill Este ; she heard without surprise
the question that gave her confirmation
of all she feared. What reason moved
him, she wondered dully, while the pulse
of her life beat in her as if every vein
would burst.

She shrank back into the shadow of the
wall as he came out. His face was dark with
drink and passion ; his lips were set. His
eyes had a red fury in them, as an angered
mastiff's have when he is about to spring.

Almost she was tempted to leap on
him, and drive her dagger through him.

To save or serve Este any crime woidd
have seemed to her holiness.

But she knew that beside him she was
as a reed beside an oak ; that if her first
blow failed to strike home, he would turn
in his rage, and stab or strangle her; then
who would warn Este if she died ?

She dared not touch him lest she should

VOL. in. x

fail, and no living thing be left betwixt her
lover and him.

She continued to follow him, going
through the strange ways of the wondrous
place with no more sight of them than if she
had been blind.

The noise of the streets, the confusion
and babble, and sounds of moving horses,
of soldiers' trumpets, of shouting charlatans,
of rapidly-revolving wheels, all went by her
unheard.

Her fear of the city was lost in a yet intense
fear. Had its streets been a furnace,
she would have plunged into its flames.

Saturnino left the noisier and gayer
streets to pass into the dark steep lanes
that encompass the Pantheon and lead the
way to Tiber. It seemed to her as if
these miry, crooked, gloomy ways would
never end ; their rough uneven pavements,
their battered darkling house-walls, their
stench, and the cries that filled them from
the brazen lungs of the populace thronging
through them, made them seem to her
like the passage-ways of hell. Yet she
scarcely felt the flints under her feet, the
foul smell in the air, the uproar on her
ear ; she was almost as sightless, almost

as deaf, as a hunted dog that runs straight
on, hearing and seeing nought, made mad
with terror.

Only mad she was not ; the great love
in her burned too clearly like a strong light
ill a lamp of alabaster, and her courage
made her calm.

Saturnino passed through the ancient
ways that dive down through the heart of
the city to the riverside, lie crossed the
Tiber by the bridge of S. Angelo. The sun
had now set ; a crimson hue was upon all
the scene ; the river rippled in lines of gold,
the pine-trees were black against the glow,
the angel on Hadrian's tomb lifted a flashing
sword into the light.

Even in that moment the beauty of the
evening upon Tiber forced some perception
of itself upon her ; he never paused nor
saw. He entered Trastevere.

Its streets and lanes were dark. Lamps
were burning, and the glisten of fountains
showed white through the gloom.

The great bells were tolling, for on the
morrow it was the feast of S. Elizabeth. The
air seemed to palpitate visibly with their
rocking sounds. There were many monks
and priests in the streets, their white or

x 2

their black robes Hitting by beneath the
shadow of high walls over-topped with
orange-trees and cypress and here and there
a palm. The people came out of their dim
arched doorways, from under their iron
lamps, with mass-books in their hands or
lone? rosaries of olive-beads. From some
church or monastery whose portals stood
open there came a low subdued chorus of
Gregorian chaunts swelling softly out over
the evening air.

Saturnino neither noted nor paused for
any of these things. He, a man of religion
always, had for once no heed to the call of
vespers, no salutation for the lighted altars.
He pressed through the priesthood and the
populace alike in haste and with feverish
steps.

He still walked lamely, but he went fast,
stopping in his course only to ask once or twice
his way to the palace of the Count teste.

Once a brown-eyed Trasteverina with
red laughing mouth heard him ask that, and
smiled.

'A handsome youth and open-handed,'
she said ; ' he lives yonder where you seethe
statues on the roof; he led a mirthful
life last winter, but he did not forget the

poor. He was away all summer at some
pleasure, I suppose ; now he is back again ;
yes, he is there ; he is not alone, he is never
alone; he is a gay gentleman, and handsome

as a camellia tree in carnival."

Saturnino said nothing ; he slid his hand
within his clothes to feel his dagger-hilt.

Musa was not near enough to hear the
woman's words. She saw him change the
direction of his steps, and she saw a dark
grand pile, with a vast doorways and Gothic
statues of saints along its roof, that stood at
the further end of a narrow piazza, great trees
of the gardens behind it making a black
cloud against the evening sky. Then for a
moment her eyes grew dim, her brain grew
dizzy ; she felt that she was near Este.

And if she could not save him ! if she
had chosen a foolish, useless way! if she had
erred when she had been afraid to strike her
knife into his enemy's breast lest the blow
should fail from any feebleness of her hand !

This was all she thought of; that her lover
had forgotten her she never remembered ; a
great love is an unchanging pardon. Strained
to the uttermost it will not fail or faint ; it
will endure all things.

She quickened her steps, and, trusting

to the deep shadows that fell from the house
walls of the piazza, crept close upward to
him, so close that stretching out her hand
she could have touched him.

He, knowing; nothing still, went on across
the pavement of the narrow square. No one
noticed him ; shepherds came in oftentimes
from the Campagna on the vigil of holy
feasts, and he, they saw, was from the downs
and moors, with his rude goatskin clothes,
his wild dark hair, his pastoral staff, his
leather-girt strong loins.

The oaken iron-studded doors of the
palace stood wide open ; there was a keeper
of them, clad in red and gold, like all such
servitors of Bon an princes, but he had
crossed the piazza for a moment, and was
quenching his thirst at a canteen, where some
of the Swiss guard of the adjacent Vatican
were lolling and drinking in his company,
their yellow and red uniforms and the steel
glitter of their halberds making a glow of
colour under an old bronze swinging lamp.

She gave the men-at-arms a swift glance,
and felt glad that they were so near : if she
failed they would be there to hear.

She crept up closely towards Saturnino, so
closely that she walked in his very shadow.

Her footfall was noiseless. He did not know
that he was followed ; that he had thus been
followed all across the wastes of the Maremma.

He passed without a moment's pause
through the doorway ; whenever he had
struck a deathblow, he had always struck
quickly as the eagle does.

Within there was a vast and lofty hall,
austere with sculpture, its floor mosaic, its
ceiling frescoed ; a staircase of immense
width, made of marble, stretched upward
between walls of marble ; silver lamps swung
from above and lighted it dully. It was
deserted and silent ; all the footmen dozed
in Woman fashion, in the antechambers before
the great apartments up above where
the first flight of the great stairs ended, and
where, in a great arch within the wall, a
statue of S. Michael stood, colossal, with
white wings outspread and spear uplifted.

Saturnino crossed the hall and mounted
one by one the steps of marble.

Once he looked back to be sure that no
one saw him there. She shrank against the
pillars of the balustrade, and her grey
clothes were so like the shadows on her
that she escaped his sight.

All around the landing-place there were

large doors, black doors touched with faded
gilding ; there were oil lamps burning, their
pale light fell on the marble of S. Michael,
with the fiend conquered at his feet.

By hazard Saturnino flung open the
nearest door to him, and thrust back the
curtain of gilded leather that hung behind it.
The chamber within was an antechamber,
spacious, but well warmed by a bronze
brazier in its centre ; here several lacqueys
in liveries of purple and white were lounging
at their ease in idleness.

Some stared, some started up at sight of
the strange figure of this Campagna shepherd,
as he looked to them, standing on the
threshold, with one hand putting back the
gilded Cordovan leather of the curtain.

He called to them in a loud voice :
c Go, tell your master I am here ; I, Saturnino
Mastarna. Say that I bid him for old
friendship's sake come out for a word with
me.'

There was something in his tone, something
in his look, which awed into silence
the arrogant and impudent words with
which they were always ready to greet and
turn away one of the populace ; to them,
all Woman youngsters as they were, the name

that was still a sacred name to the Maremma,
said nothing, but they were impressed and
cowed by the rude majesty, the lordly,
haughty command, of this strange man, who
spoke to them as though he were an emperor.

They whispered amongst each other in
hesitation and vague alarm. He stood
on the threshold waiting and impatient,
his great dark eyes glowing with flame
beneath his bent and stormy brows.

1 Go,' he said again to them, ' Go ; your
master and I kept company for two long
years until we sawed each other's chains
asunder. Go ; I am Saturnino Mastarna.'

Two of them slunk away upon his
errand, the others waited about alarmed.'

Behind the leathern curtain Musa stood,
within a hands-breadth of her father. Her
heart beat so loudly against her breast that
she thought he must hear it, and would turn
and see her there. Her whole being was
strung to tension, all the blood had gone
out of her face, tongues of flame seemed to
dart through her eyes, her lips grew dry and
parched. In the agony of her watching
fear she almost forgot that her sight would
soon see Este. If she failed to save him ! —
tli is was her one consuming thought.

It seemed to her hours that she stood
there, on the threshold of the vestibule,
waiting, whilst the idle lacqueys loitered
within, looking at this strange unbidden guest
with stupid curiosity and amaze. She heard
a clock striking the seventh hour of the
nio*ht; she saw the hand of Saturnino steal
within his belt of leather, and knew that he
was fingering the dagger hidden there.

The doors at the upper end of the long
frescoed chamber unclosed ; Este came
through them, the light from the swinging-lamps
fell on his classic face. He looked
surprised, disturbed ; he came across the
floor with a rapid step, and motioned back
his eager lacqueys.

6 Are you prudent ? ' he said in a low
tone. ' I have not forgotten, I will befriend
you, but what brings you here ? '

Saturnino cut his words asunder.

This ! ' he said ; and swift as the lightning
flash above his mountain lair his
dagger flashed in the air.

Ere it could strike she had thrown herself
on him, and with the strength of a young
lioness had torn the steel out of his grip, and
forced him, staggering like a drunken man,
against the marble columns of the doorway.

You too ! ' cried Este ; and all his debt,
and all his sins of oblivion and ingratitude,
came back upon him like a rain of curses,
and held him dumb and paralysed.

I would not have come,' she murmured,
careless that the blood was streaming
from the hand with which she had seized
the dagger, and still clenched it close ; ' I
would not have come — oh never, never — .
but he meant to kill you, and I have followed
him all the way, all the way.'

Then she dropped senseless on the
marble floor at his feet.

Saturnino stood silent, leaning against
the columns of the door.

The veins of his throat and his forehead
were black and . swollen, his dark face was
crimson, the blood was surging in his temples
and in his brain ; he only saw a crimson reeling
mist that circled round and round him ;
the servants seized him and he felt them
not ; he saw nothing, he knew nothing ;
only one memory remained with him.

She was the child of Serapia,' he
muttered, ; and you — you — you — you will
escape me ! '

He strove to wrench himself free from
the grasp of the men who held him ; he

strove blindly, madly, to get away and throw
himself on Este ; but he could see nothing,
he could hear nothing, for the rush of
blood in his brain ; the darkness over him
grew denser and blacker, the sense of suffocation
grew worse, he thought the hands of
a hundred men were at his throat ; then,
like the carcase of a slaughtered bull, his
body slipped from those who had seized
him, and he fell face forward on the floor.

He breathed a few times with labour, but
his brain was already dead ; soon the trunk
and the limbs were dead also. The silver
image that Joconda had given to him still
hung about his throat.

So he perished, unpitied, unassoilised, and
they let him lie like carrion, and to belike
carrion carted to the streets.

[HEX she returned to any consciousness
and sense of sight or
hearing, she was alone with her
faithless lover ; lie knelt beside
her as he had kneeled on that night of storm
when he had found her on the shore beneath
the Sasso Scritto.

Forgive me, forgive me ! ' — that was all
he could think of to say.

He loathed his sins, and he abhorred
himself.

Little by little she recovered breath and
power and remembrance; she had only
swooned from lone fatigue and terror, and
the effort made to save him.

For awhile she lay quite still, letting the
deep delight of his touch, his voice, his

presence, steep all her being in unutterable,
dream-like ecstasy.

My love, my love ! ' she murmured, and
smiled, and leaned her head against his
breast, and was at peace at last.

He kissed her again and again and again,
and in that moment loved her and said only
the same words, ' Forgive me ! forgive me ! '
and then was still and leaned his lips upon
her hair in silence.

For awhile she rested so ; so motionless
he might have thought her dead but for the
close clinging pressure of her unwounded
hand on his.

She lay as in a trance : a trance of
more than mortal joy.

Suddenly a great fear seized her.

6 Saturnino,' she murmured, ' where is
he?'

He is gone, dear ; never mind him,' he
answered her. He could not bear to tell
her that this man was dead.

Gone — gone where ? He may come
back. He may try to kill you. He hates
you ; I cannot tell why '

She had started from his hold and was
trembling with terror. Este shuddered with
his own memories.

He had understood the dying words of
Saturnino : lie had understood that this poor
brute had been her father.

4 He is gone where lie will harm no one
any more,' he said to her, with tears in his
own eves. ' lie is dead, dear. He had a
rush of blood over the brain that killed
him. Let us leave him to God.'

6 Is he dead ? ' she said ; but it moved
her little. He had been nothing to her, this
outlawed man, who first had stolen her
gold and last had striven to slay the only
life she loved. She had pitied him because
men had hunted him ; that was all.

Suddenly again she raised herself and
looked in Este's eyes, and a wave of hot
colour went over all her face.

• My child died,' she murmured timidly
as if afraid he would rebuke her.

Yours ! — mine ! '

A great pang of remorse went through
him. Had she suffered thus, he knowing
nothing, living in pleasure and in oblivion !

4 Ours,' she said softly under her breath.
4 He lived a few little days ; I did all I
could.'

Her eyes closed, and large tears rolled
slowly off her lashes and fell upon his hand.

He kissed them as they fell ; a poignant
repentance made him ready to curse himself,
though she would never curse him.

I would not have come,' she murmured,
' you know that ; you are sure of
that ? Only I feared he wished to hurt you,
and I could warn you no other way. Oh
love, oh my dear love ! you do believe me ?
Never, never would I have come to remind
you of — of '

'Of my debt,' he murmured. 'Ah, I
believe ! You are the most generous and the
most pure of living souls, and I am the most
base.'

No, no,' she said softly, ' I am nothing ;
it was natural you should forget. You have
the world now ; you have no need of me,
Never would I have come for any lesser
thing than this.'

'How do you live?' he said, with his
voice broken and hoarse.

He was ashamed ; greatly ashamed.

I live as we did,' she said simply, and
thought she would not tell him of all her
sufferings, lest he should hear in them a
reproach.

c In the tombs ? In those tombs still ? '

'Where else?' she said in wonder that
he should ask.

I When I drink from what you called the
shjphos that you drank out of,' she added
simply, ' it seems almost as if you kissed me
still '

He leaned his face upon her breast to
hide his shame.

Whatever was I that you should adore
me thus ? ' he cried. ' Nothing to you but a
printer of burden and shame.'

I love you,' she murmured, with her old
trouble at finding any words large enough
to tell the great emotions that swelled
her heart. Who that loves can ever find
them ?

She loved him, indeed, and he

A passionate remorse was on him.
Why had he been faithless, treacherous,
more thankless than a cur that bit what fed
it ? Nay, he thought, no beast but what was
human could ever have been ingrate thus.

Suddenly she freed herself from his
embrace, and raised herself erect upon her
couch.

I I will go now,' she said, all her soul in
her eyes as they dwelt on his. 'I have
saved you, I have seen you ; night and day

VOL. III. Y

I will thank God. I will go now ; I am
not tired. I shall be always there, and if
you wish for me ever, you will call me. But
that will not be.'

Her eyes were full of tears which
did not fall. She put her arms about his
throat and kissed him, as though he lay
dying, and was leaving her for evermore.

My love — my love — my love ! ' she
murmured.

Then she rose ; her face was very pale,
her head swam, her limbs trembled still,
her hand was wounded and wrapped in
linen, and throbbed and ached, but she was
ready to go.

He should not think that she had come
to call him back to any memory of his debtor
of her sacrifice.

The old heroic light shone in her eyes,
the old high courage rose in her heart.
She would go back and live in solitude and
silence, and if he wished for her he knew
the way over the wild thyme and the dewy
wood-moss to the moors. She would be
always there.

Perhaps some day, when the world had
tired him, or strength had failed him, he
would remember.

Este held her to his breast.

1 You must not go ! ' he cried passionately.
'You must never go ! What do you
think me ? Could ever we part now ? If I
had known '

Then he was silent ; a cruel knowledge
was in his mind, a cruel dilemma beset him ;
he remembered other ties, other passions.
She loved him as no other did indeed, but
he

The tapestry at the further wall of the
great painted chamber in which they were
alone wavered and moved ; a hand pushed it
with petulance aside ; from the gloom behind
it there came a woman as white as the
swan's throat is, with hair that was about her
like a golden nimbus, and a collar of old
jewels set in silver at her throat. She moved
with calm, slow, undulating grace ; she wore
some soft and shining texture, white, too,
with lights and shadows in it as the swan's
whiteness has ; she had a knot of crimson
roses at her breast.

She had cruel eyes. She had a beautiful
mouth, that laughed as children's do. She
came forward and looked, smiling, at Est'-.

She was only a base, venal, wanton thing
enough, who had but one love, gold ; yet the

world had taught her all its sorcery, and
she had its grace, its skill, its power. She
was the Venus Pandects which in all time
has triumphed.

She put her hand upon his shoulder, and
laughed a little, noiselessly.

She glanced at the poor grey, sustained,
travel-tired form that she saw there.

4 He is mine,' she said with a smile.
Was he yours once ? Well ! why have
you let him go ? '

He shivered under the hold of the
courtesan, but he said nothing. His head
drooped ; he was ashamed, bitterly ashamed.

He envied that dead carrion which lay
in the lower chamber of his palace. He, at
least, living, had been a man.

Musa stood mute ; her eyes fastened on
this beautiful soulless white and golden
thing that held him there.

Then all at once she understood.

With one cry she turned and fled.

When he shook off his sorceress, and
followed her down his great marble stairs
into the darkness of the night, she was gone :
lost to him in the wilderness of Eome.

Then perhaps, at last, he loved her.

N the sixth day from that she
reached her home. She knew
not how she reached it : knew
no more than does the hunted
beast, that runs panting, sinking, almost
dying at each step, and yet runs on to die at
home. She had no consciousness of what
she did ; her hand bled, her brain turned,
her feet stumbled, yet she kept on, with
only that one instinct of the stricken doe
left in her, to reach her home and die there.
She lost all beauty, all youth, all likeness
of herself. She crept on with the torpid
movement of old age ; in her heart she
carried its despair.

Everywhere around her, in the buoyant
clouds, in the mountain snows, in the greenness

of the land, in the light and lustre of
the sunbeams, she saw only one thing, the
face of the woman who had robbed her ; of
the woman who was by his side, with the
noiseless laugh on her mouth and the glisten
of the old gems at her throat.

That was all she saw.

The few men who met her in the fields
and on the moors were frightened at her
look, and thought her mad, and hurried from
her path.

For six days and nights she wandered,
now running, now creeping, now dropping
and lying like a stone, now gathering
herself up and going onward as a deer does
that carries a mortal wound with him
through the brake and the stream, over the
hill and the heath.

Sometimes she slept.

Sometimes all night she lay with eyes
wide open to the stars, staring, wondering
where God was.

On the seventh morning she came home.

There were redbreasts singing amidst
the myrtle. She went down into the tombs.
They were very cold ; the ashes of the
spent fire were on the stones.

In the ivory syphon he had always used

there was water ; she drank it thirstily.
She kissed the rim his lips had used to
touch. She kneeled down and said a Latin
prayer. c If God care,' she thought — and
wondered dully.

The little timid song of the mountain
birds came into the stillness of the tombs.

She did not hear it ; she only heard
Este's voice.

She took from her girdle the three-edged
dagger that he had once worn near
his heart night and day ; she set it upright
in the spot where the little child had lain
upon its bed of rosemary, forcing the hilt
down into a crevice in the rock floor of the
chamber of the Lucumo.

Then she threw herself forward on the
upright blade, which sank straight through
breast and bone.

When the messengers of her lover came
thither a day later, having sought her in the
city and on the downs and hills in vain,
she lay as though asleep, face downward,
her head upon her arm.

He made her grave there, and buried
with her half his life.

lint men forget — and lie forgot.

In time the wild olive, and the myrtle.

and the evergreen alterius grew closer and
closer around the entrance of the Etruscan
grave, and at last wove so impenetrable a
veil between it and the light that even the
wild birds and the hunted hare seeking a
refuge could not enter there.

It defended her in death as it had sheltered
her in life ; and the woodlark sang
above amidst the woods purge, and the balm
and the spikenard and the wild rose grew
over the place of the tomb.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

yf

3 0112 042839016
